

35IcE WAN’S ALE.
m
PIG STOUT.
R,. Gro WATmNS OO ,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Minix. g ancl Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY
°and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
JEFFREY
Roller. Steel cad Special CHAINS
yjL&v JU
Www
=C7
!»
TO
SAc
q;ck>
A
r*
*
CT>
HERVEY’S
BACKABOCK.
18 Years Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
64
TEARS DTEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. EILIDIRIXDG-IE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
C<wntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°- w h» street, SYDNEY.
' _
SOLE
SEND
FOR
ELEVATORS
CONVEYORS
'M-SteZ*kM
CATALOGUE.
mm
ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES
m
m
IN
BOTTLED
-
_ _
m
m
CHUBB’S SAFES
bvesrywhere.
HOBART.
PIONEER
m
LEATHER
BELTING'
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
USHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id. Post Free.
m
m
9
BROOMS
INDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S. Africa,
Egypt, China and Ceylon
rt=>
and used by all the best players in India. Agents wanted
in Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddler!
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
o
EROOM&CO.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
m
THE ROYAL
~ - Lamp
m
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have «.o Worthiest
Imitations.
TEE mm & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16
\7V YAED SQUARE. SYDNEY.
Queensland Bepot—Commonwealth Buildings,
Adelaide Street. Brisbane
A POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d ; Posted, Bd.
M
m
THE
si ENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rng
VX iik e a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them m use for a number of years, can testify o
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a. 6d.
“ RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price
f Sinirle Razor, in strong Leather Case, 108. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
LSingle Razor, in Ivory Handle, IBs. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole Agents:
Registered AKd Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
IT* Please add 6d. exchct/nge on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st.,
Sir
ai'.'
ai
\
?>\\
••
A Gold or Silver Watch Free!
SEND NO MONEY. W"iK5 JS&.SS
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE :
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
D**T M**S T**S C****E
and addressed envelope, so that |
we may inform you if you have |
won the Watch. We are making |
this offer solely with the object of introducing- and advertising our I
goods. Forward your letter to our address : [or Rox 860 G.jEhO.] 8
GOLDSMITHS COLONIAL CO., PITT STREET, SYDNEY. I
m
The Resident Medical Officer of a large
Colonial Hospital writes : “Our patients have
greatly benefited by the use of Joshua’s
Boomerang Brandy. It is a very Nourishing
and Beneficial Stimulant.”
m
ALCOCIDE
v ** ja:ox»sa?iDitEjr>. /
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free , under cover.
Strictly Confidential.
AP I HMQnCM 74 VICTORIA ROAD,
. Ml LUmOUCK, AUBURN, MELBOURNE.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life-size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), the Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
definition of your character —very superior for parlorenter-
tainments), the Wonderful Finger Through the Hat Trick,
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or the Disappearing Coin
Trick, and, last of all, the Famous Wizard of the North’s
Changeable Pack of Cards (instructions enclosed).
This splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6ci.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
A
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
I
HtftrtHcts' throughout
Groat Britain and Colonita.
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
i Nothing remains which can
l produce attack. _ You eaa
cat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We hare
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK S2c post FREE.
Address: I'm. P. Harold Hayes’Asthmatic Instxtotb*
Buffalo, N. Y.. U. 8. A.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; priee, 4s. 6d.
MEMO. FOR 1904: «AUT HELIDOM AUT NULL US.”
The Bulletin
Tol 25.—N0. 1264.]
[Thursday. May 5/1904.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


‘f
Ov
G.
GEO.
WEE MAC6REE6OR A6AIN!”
By J. J. BELL, author of
EACH
and « ETHEL/
WEE MACGREEGOR,” « MISTRESS McLEERIE
ts. 3d., or POST FREE Is. sd.
be.» «*, tave
TO ARRIVE SATURDAY MORNING apptt
R 28S8jfiP~- « I “ th ''' »*■ • ■»»*!*• «• TUdJliSglt, A . a. Ad„,,. 2,. 6d. and
' ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 Castlereagh-st., Sydney, and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and London.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE.
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
a
A. The Lartkx, or organ of
voice.
li. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lun®.
[). A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and *
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSONS EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain NO Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
All Chemists, in tins, I'6, or from Manufacturer, G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of
stamps. Sydney Depot : 5& 7 Queen's Place. Agencie ain all Australian States, N.Z., and 32D Kegent-st., W., London.
THE RED PAGE.
G. K. Chesterton’s French mother is seen again
at her diverting gambols in the booklet of G. F.
Watts, just added to Duckworth’s “Popular
Xiibrury of Art.” Petillante, vivacious, she
pirouettes back and forth like an opera-dancer on
the stage of ideas; every pose full of gleaming
suggestions that flit and fail as Gallic muscce in
the eyes of the audience. She is to be taken like
lemonade, she is to be taken like the critical
ballet, she is to be taken with confetti, like the
Carnival, but she is not to be taken seriously. She
does not take herself seriously. Yet in England
solemn reviewers persist in taking her seri-
ously : they labour to prove that she is not a
philosophical drama in five acts, they are shocked
by the inconsequence of her pas seul, and refute
with grief, even with anger, the logic of her foot-
light grimaces. Be not deceived; Punch is not
mocked : for whatsoever a man soweth in Britain,
fog shall he also reap. Ecrasez le papillon !
J*
One cannot believe that Chesterton’s British
publishers saw the joke of choosing a writer who
does not take himself seriously,—who cannot con-
vince you that he has any convictions whatever,
who leaves the impression that he could bring a
host of sparkling phrases to demolish every con-
clusion that he has built with a host of spark-
ling phrases,— to narrate and criticise the
work of the painter who of all takes him-
self most seriously. Assuredly G. F. Watts
will never see the joke: a joke is the last thing
that a seer sees; and Watts in his own
eyes is seer, prophet, moral regenerator, and Art-
knows-what-not. Chesterton, who waters the
mental ground if he does not .sow mental seed,
stresses the friendship and artistic kinship between
Watts and Tennyson, but without affirming the
paradox that, outside of mathematics, parallel
lines always meet. Just as Tennyson is poetical
artificer rather than poet, so Watts is pictorial
artificer rather than painter. Both compass with
study and pains effects of talent that fal
short of the magical effects of genius. Both
plod on the heights of fancy without rising
into the ether of imagination, with a
lame foot always holding them to earth.
Both are essentially British, imbued with
the British notion that art is not purely a result
of human reactions to eternal rhythms of form and
sound and colour, but must be associated with
temporary British theories of morals—must, in
fact, be converted into a conventional religion.
Chesterton defends this notion as gaily as (one is
assured) he would defend a contrary notion if the
whim took him or the occasion were otherwise.
His little book tesolves itself into an explanation
and defence of Watts, interesting and imperma-
nent. Why impermanent ? Because Chesterton
does not think deeply enough, does not range
widely enough : his mind gives no steady light,
but lightens by eloquent flashes that bring the
details of his subject into bright relief, and leave
the proportions of the whole unascertained.
J*
But his fooling is excellent. As to the charge that
Watts is a “ literary ” painter,, for example, and
that his pictures imitate the ideas expressed
in the words that form their titles—
As a matter of fact, of course, there are a great many
other languages besides the verbal. Descriptions of
spiritual states and mental purposes are conveyed by
a variety of things, by hats, by bells, by guns, by fires on
a headland or by jerks of the head. In tact, there does
exist an example which is singularly analogous to
decorative and symbolic painting. There is a scheme of
aesthetic signs or emblems, simple indeed and consisting
only of a few elemental colours, which is actual! 5 '
employed to convey great lessons in human safety and
great necessities of the Commonwealth.. It need hard] '
be said that I allude to the railway signals. They are a i
much a language, and surely as solemn a language, a
the colour-sequence of ecclesiastical vestments, whic'i
sets us red for martyrdom, and white for resurrection
For the green and red of the night-signals depict th
two most fundamental things of all, which lie at the back
Of all language. Yes and no, good and bad, safe and uh
safe, life and death. It is perfectly conceivable that
degree of flexibility or subtlety might be introduced into
these colours, so as to suggest other and more compl'e:
meanings. We might (under the influence of some large
poetic station-masters), reach a state of things in which
certain rich tinge of purple in the crimson light woulc
mean “ Travel for a lew seconds at a slightly more linger
ing pace, that a romantic old lady in a first-class carriage
may admire the scenery of the forest.” A tendency
towards peacock blue in the green might mean “ An old
gentleman with a black necktie has just drunk a glass ol
sherry at the station restaurant.”
But however much we modified or varied this colour
sequence or colour language, there would remain one
thing which it would be quite ridiculous and untrue to
say about it. It would be quite ridiculous and untrue
to say that this colour sequence was simply a symbo
representing language. It would be another language
it would convey its meaning to-aliens who had another
word for forest, and another word for sherry, and another
word for old lady. It would not be a symbol of language
a symbol of a symbol: it would be one symbol of the
reality, and language would be another. That is pre
cisel.y the true position touch ing allegorical art in general
and above'all, the allegorical art of Watts.
J*
This, of course, begs the question; the book is
a book of begged questions. The point is not
whether a painting is one symbol of reality and a
word is another ; but whether Watts’s allegorical
paintings are true to their artistic class and
category as paintings,—whether they express ideas
or realities purely by the painter’s means of
line and mass, light and shade, form and colour, or
are partially or wholly dependent upon language
for their expression. The point is settled by
reference to the paintings themselves. Yon find
Watts adding* verbal titles to his paintings,
admitting thus that the painted symbol alone
does not or may not fully convey his meaning.
For if the painting utter its own language why
bring words in aid? You find Chesterton
admitting that to the ordinary spectator Watts’s
picture of Hope might seem to be a picture of
Despair, But if Watts’s symbol existed in entire
independence of the title, and were truly a
symbol of hi-s idea, it could not symbolise even to
the ordinary spectator, outside of topsyturvy-
dom, an idea precisely opposite. Y*ou find
Chesterton declaring that Watts’s allegories
“are not proverbs or- verbal relations
rendered with cumbrous exactitude,” and
you find Watts painting a picture of the
proverb ‘When Poverty comes in at the door,
Eove flies out at the window”—a picture that
w °uld have no intelligible meaning if that form
of words did not exist to give it meaning. There
is a gaunt, half-clothed figure—coming in—at the
door ; there is a bright, young figufe—winged—
going out at the window; and there on the
couch is the figure of a woman alone, in a room
decorated with other symbols of Poverty and
Jx>ve. The proverb is followed with Chinese
literahty.
<t .T his picture, to be sure, is one of the most
•i j e 2* Watts’s pictorial allegories. But
its d.fferenoe from the others is a difference only
ot degree, not of kind. Watts’s allegorical art is
ea art hiero & l yphics. But whereas in Egypt
the order of progression was from object to
hieroglyplne, and from hieroglyphic to literature,
Watts has reversed the order, and goes from
a eri k Ure to .hieroglyphic as in the case cited.
At best his hieroglyphic results from a
marriage of the literary idea with the idea
derived directly from the object ; and it
is this marriage or mixture that has deceived
Chesterton. Since Watts himself supplies a clear
series of steps to this conclusion, one suspects
that Chesterton’s argument is merely a result of
imperfect acquaintance with his subject.
Closely considered, Watts’s art is not merely
. primitive, 'it is childish. The naivete of his
ideas is remarkable : his pictures look simple
in the old sense of simple. And his art is a child’s
art, in spite of its successes. In a sense, you see
it at its best in reproductions : there you do not
expect more than is given, and form and idea are
always given. Despite strong drawing and colour-
ing often magnificent, the paintings themselves
have a curious air of weakness. They lack inten-
sity, certainty, seem only half achieved. Watts, in
fact, is only half a mystic ; —in a loose sense, you
can say that Blake and Michael Angelo are at war
in him, and each thwarts the other. He himself
doubts whether he should not have devoted him-
self to sculpture.’ One can easily come to the con-
clusion that the doubt is justified. The closer
discipline of marble would have solved the riddle
of his indecisions. His pictures often are neither
fish nor flesh.
In his portraits he paints himself all the time.
Chesterton notes that they have a curious air of
likeness. The reason of this is that, in spite of
his endeavours to draw the individual meanings
and identities out of his subjects, he succeeded
only in putting his own meanings in. Morris is
Morris plus Watts; Rossetti is Rossetti plus
Watts; and so on through nearly the whole
collection in the British National Portrait
Gallery. Chesterton notes especially, in the
case of the portrait of Matthew Arnold, that
Watts reproduced Arnold’s bewilderment won-
derfully. One could say, perhaps fancifully,
that his notable success in this case
was due to the fact that the bewildered subject
met his kinsman in a bewildered artist. For com-
parison or contrast, they have hung Sargent’s por-
trait of Coventry Patmore beside the long line of
Watts s portraits. No more was needed to prove
his inadequacy. His inspiration may be the
higher ; but Sargent’s performance is clearly the
performance of a painter. Besides it, Watts’s heads
look like the work of a dreamer who has learnt to
paint. And even as a dreamer be is painfully
literal: his symbols are statements, things tacked
on, not things flowering out. To realise the
difference, compare Love and Death or Hope or
another with Rossetti’s Proserpine or Burne-
Jones’s Vespertina Quies.
And here we have been taking that French
mother seriously !
—i
Tussock Land, by Arthur H. Adams (Lond.,
Unwin ; 2s. 6d.), has interest rather personal
and local than technical, though techni-
cally. the story is preferable to much current
English fiction. The English seem wedded reli-
giously to the transportation system : formerly
they sent us their bad characters, now they send
us their bad novels. Often one feels inclined to
cry, “Take back your Corelli! take back your
4 lan Maclaren ’! and give us again your rogues
and thieves and proctors.”
There is too much descriptive monologue, in
Tussock Land, and not enough bright dialogue ;
though the monologue is not badly spoken. The
story relates episodes from the active and psychic
life of a young man of Le Gallienne’s type-
clever, artistic, _ sensitive, self-conscious, and
feeble. His heroines are interesting.
J*
Aroha “wore no corsets” and “displayed the
outline of her long slim limbs and the sweep of
her boyish breasts ” (p. 14). “ Her voice was rich
and wonderful” (p. 15). “ The riding jacket and
skirt that she wore did not conceal the sweep of
her long slender limbs [encore], the delicate out-
lines of her boyish breasts... The boy could almost
feel the rich warmth of her white bodv, the soft,
moist touch of her passionate lips ” (p. 47). At
page 50 “ there swept through him a sense 0f...
the warm splendour of her white body, the unpro-
tected tenderness of her face, the wealth of her
full lips.” “She was indeed very beautiful” at
p. 100. “His eye ran over her supple slimness
with a sensuous artist-joy... The sweep of limb
[encore !] and bosom filled him with a faintness of
desire... He kissed her hungrily... He kissed
her hair” (p. 101). “He noted the tired grace
of her pose... His arms went round her ” (p.
102). “He stroked her hair weakly” (d. 104).
“They parted ”<(p. 105).
Barbara was a'-heroine, but not a heroine to the
hero : her physical shortcomings w-ere manifest.
‘“She was not young, possibly thirty-five, a pale-
faced, little woman with indeterminate eyebrows
and muddjr hair” (p. 127). “Her prim face with
its pjire, pale complexion, her slim, unnoticeable
had in them no quality that would arrest a
man’s attention. Men instinctively demand em-
phasis in a woman ; the finer«nuances are usually
overlooked” (p. 133). “He could not imagine
any man wanting to kiss her” (p. 134). “She
was not an attractive girl ” (p. 14b). “‘ I write
stories,’ she said proudly... ‘.Not in The Bulletin,
though—l’m not clever enough for The Bulletin...
in The Australasian’ ” (p. 143). She “was a
limpet woman ; ’ as long as she could’ cling, it did
not matter to what... She was not an indivi-
dual that one could hang fancies upon ” (p. 250).
“ Good-bye ” (p. 270).
“Gertrude was a very beautiful girl. She was
nineteen ” (p. 155). “He desired this woman for
himself” (p. 160). He “watched her pouring
out the tea ” (p. 106). “He had her in his arms,
and his lips were taking toll of her face and neck”
(p. 168). “He kissed her despite her struggles’’
(p. 189). “ His was the dreamer’s brain that
imagines but cannot act” (p. 199). “He noted
the subtle harmonies of her lovely colouring, cool
dress, and the darkened drawing-room, and felt
only one desire—to paint her” (p. 258). “Good-
bye ; good luck ! ” she said (p. 259).
Etfie was “a dark-eyed girl whose pale, refined
face, of a seraphic serenity, seemed vaguely
familiar” (page 210). “Within a quarter of an
hour he was kissing Effie, and Effie showed merely
a naive surprise ” (p. 211). “She looked a seraph
in a tailor- unde dress” (p. 212). “ How a gift of
roses would send through all her body a thrill of
gratitude” (p. 214). “Yes, he would marry
Effie ” (p. 229). “He never saw her again ” (p.
235).
That’s all, unless you count a little school-girl
who “ turned away. Her great eyes of grey
drooped upon another boy’s face.”
J*
The hero is represented as born in England,
coming a boy to Maorilattd, and growing up in
Dunedin. In the end lie marries Aroha, a Maori
quadroon. In the meantime “he had been set
apart from the rest of humanity by a special
grace;* he was an artist.” His name is King
Southern. “Perhaps you will say that King was
a prig. All I will say is that he was very young.”
All one need add is that a sense of humour might
have been his salvation.
King goes to Dunedin University. His father
is a clergyman who wishes him to study law;
King insists on coming to Sydney to study art.
He explains himself in many fluent passages
that are more effectively put in Maorilund, and
Other Verses. “ And already King, with the
cruel lucidity of youth, had found out that there
were realms in his life into which a mother could
not hope to enter... Her views upon art were
hopelessly banal” (p. 109). King’s father is cold
and cynical about art, but he pays expenses for
six months ih Sydney.
“It was King’s first sight of Sydney, and that
to a New Zealander is like a first glimpse of
heaven.”
Then the city rose up, spire after spire, out of its hfeavy
pall of haze. Gaunt blocks of buildings rose from the
water like the walls of a medieval fortress. Green
gardens, splashed with tropical colours, reached to the
harbour’s edge. Terrace upon terrace, like long rows of
stiff flowers in a formal garden, the houses rippled over
the hills. About the narrow harbour, from little black
wharf to little black wharf, the ferry steamers fussed. . .
A larrikin, his trousers spreading over his high-heeled
boots, his flat hat crushed over a long, ferret face, a
black, oiled tress hanging low over a weak, furrowed
forehead, the mouth - long, cruel, loose with frequent ex-
pectoration, the gaunt figure slouching and inert, lean-
ing against a post under a wide verandah, was engaged
in a monotonous, toneless conversation with his
“donah."
King’s vivid impressions are vividly set down,
always in a key too high for the writer’s voice.
His quick, hasty eyes scarcely see the whole, and
his bright phrases seem superficial. He is made
welcome by the Society pf Artists, but his
“big picture” is a failure, and he works fora
livelihood in a solicitor’s office. The chapters
picture Sydney life with Barbara, Gertrude,
and Effie. Considerably sobered, he returns after
years to Maoriland, takes a partnership in a rural
law firm, and accepts his destiny of the common-
place. With Aroha aforesaid.
je
Tussock Land has not the intrinsic value of
Maoriland , and Other Verses as a literary perfor-
mance ; but it is by no means a bad beginner’s
book. The scenes and people are homely and
familiar, and much more entertaining than tlm
scenes and people of a foreign country pictured
on the same plane of accomplishment. And it is
a book really amusing.
There are some bright and individual impres-
sions of a visit to Japan in The Japan of To-Day,
by Helen Jerome (Syd., N.S.W. Bookstall Go. ;
Is.). The writer describes “theeditor of the big
Japanese paper in Tokio.”
Small even for a Jap, I found this little man most
astonishingly uncivil and arrogant. His face was
chiselled, keen, and almost Grecian in its contour. Un-
like the other, he, with the proud tenacity of bis, type,
clung to the native dress, showing id that, as in his
character, his assurance in the superiority of Japan for
the Japanese—in which, of course, he was right. Other-
wise, he fired all my bumptiously proud Western Mood,
by his cavalier manners, and the indifference with which
he openly regarded the prospect open to him to help me.
He spoke English very well, like many of his
countrymen, been educated in America, and, like all the
Japs I met, he spoke eloquently in praise of Yankeeland.
He evinced little or no interest in Australia, and certainly
none in its women. . He struck me as a man who could
feel interest in no woman, which was unfortunate
for me. I spoke to him of Sir Edwin Arnold
and his book on Japan. He "laughed with biting
satire, and observed dryly, “Surely you, madam, do not
take that gentleman’s account of Japan seriously?”
I said, with equal annoyance, “ Well, sir, if all the gentle-
men of Japan are as communicatiye as you are, one can-
not be surprised that the Western World is somewhat
hampered in its understanding of your country.”
He laughed with masculine insolence, saying, “ I am
afraid we care little for the understanding of the West.” .
“ Then why,” I asked, “ do your countrymen affect so
much servility and humility with those of us who enter
your country ? ”
“ Merely to gain our particular ends.”
“Then you are a nation of gentle prevaricators 1 ” I
said boldly.
“ Madam,” he replied with a,bow, “ we are strategists,
as Napoleon was, and ‘ prevaricator;’ which is synonym-
ous with ‘ liar,’, is a word that we Japanese are too polite
to use.”
The man baffled me, angeyed me, fascinated me. !•
frankly told him that he had upset all my previous
convictions as to the stupidity of his countrymen. At
which*he smiled, but began to thaw perceptibly. A little
judicious flattery is a great thing with a Jap, as with any
other man. I remonstrated with him about his hostile
attitude towards me, for hostile I felt ft to be, in spite of
his irritating politeness.
“ Now that you have allied yourselves with our coun-
try, surely you would wish to appear well in our eyes?”
He shobk his head stubbornly.
“ We do not much'bare, to speak quite honestly.
Who first called the Japanese the insular English
of the Pae'ific ? \
A lit Lie ’cook on tlie artist Turner, by F.
Tyrrell-Gill, is published by Methuen at 2s. 6 d.
Miss Tyrrell-Gill is known locally as a fluent,
emotional writer. Regarding Turner she lias
nothing to say, and she says it pleasantly enough.
Too many of these sugared nullities cumber book-
sellers’ counters nowadays : one grows weary of
literary lollipops. - . »■
Other books received include Letters from a
Son to His Self-made Father (Lond., Putnam’s) —a
weak retort to Lorimer, without.interest beyond
America; The House of Sin, by Marcelle Tinayre
(Lond., Maclaren ; 3s. (id.) —version of a French
roman passionel, with much of the savour
evaporated in translation, yet intrinsically
superior to seven-tenths of current Eng. novels;
Henri) Brocken, by W. J. De La Mare (Lond.,
Murray ; 6.s. ) —an excursion into literary dream-
land, careful and dead. Occasional phrases like
“the sun-nurtured arrogance of their eyes”
cannot resuscitate the stylist’s corpse. A couple
of rhymes, concentrating effort, may seem to
twitch a finger into moment’s life—
Fallow the World—
She bursts the grape,
And dandles man
In her green lap ;
She moulds her Creature
From/ the clay,
And crumbles him
* To dust away :
Follow the World !
One Draught, one Feast,
One Wench, one. Tomb ;
And thou must straight
To ashes come :
Drink, eat, and sleep ;
Why fret and pine ?
Death can but snatch
What ne’er was thine :
Follow the World !
J*
In April Life, Ogilvie tells how his verse* grew
from germs that seemed to sing themselves into
conscious life.
A line or a couplet would come to me, maybe, in a
moonlight ride, singing up through the beating hoofs
with rhythmical persistence. Thus one night, I re-
member, the whole wild Lachlan bush seemed to be
chanting of the summer moon—
Rail high with the lore of a million nights
And the lejend* of all the years.
For aught I know, the lines may be someone else’s that
have come singing down the moonlit beaches oLforgotten
Time ; but, anyway, I took them, and wrote them down,
and round them the other verses took shape, and in this
way the rhyme was written—the rhyme which I have
called “The New Moon.”
Nearly every set of verses in my hook was written in
this way: a couplet or quatrain came unasked, and
round them the other lines fell into place. But always
the key-lines were the best, and I can pick them out
among their neighbours, and remember exactly the hopr
when they came and rode by my bridle-hand, pleading
to be 'pencilled down. 1 have often thought since: If
only a whole poem would come to one in that waj',
possibly it would be worth the reading.
J*
The New Testament is newly translated into
braid Scots, like this —
Matt. 25, 1. Than sal the Kingdom o’ Heeven be like to
ten maidens, takin’ ilk ane her ain orusie, and gaun oot
to meet the bridegroom.
2. And fyve o’ them war unco witless, and fyve war
wyss.
3. For the witless took nae ulyie wt’ them whan they
took their crusies.
4. But the wyss took ulyie i’ their pouries, wi’ their
lamps.
5. Noo, while the bridegroom cam-na, they a’ grew
sleeperie, and dozed.
6. But at midnirht cam a shout, “ Hey, the bridegroom
comes ! C’way and mi et him! ”
The Rev. David Robertson says of this work that
“I can’t read it without tears ! ” and The VuHook,
Dunedin, says “there-inust be numbers of people
in New Zealand who will experience the same
feeling.” O Idunedin ! O Sydney Smith.!
» ;■—i—
As showing the English interest in Phil Slay’s work r
both editions of the handsome Phil May Folio, recently
published in London, were sold on 'publication-; and
copies are. now quoted above the original price, though
this for the ordinary edition was 1 1. Is. net.
VV. S.’ Gilbert protests in The Times that “ Savoy opera”
has not been snuffed’ out by musical comedy. “ Savoy
opera was snuffed out by the deplorable death ef my
distinguished collaborator, Sir Arthur Sullivan. When
that event occurred, I saw no bne with whom I felt that
I could work with satisfaction and success, and so I dis-
continued to write libretti.”
Previewing Louis Beoke’s last book of pot-boilers,
Chinkie’s Flat, The Aihehamm stresses his need, of an
editor. “ Kegaidid* from the literarjr standpoint, the.
author’s work is Limply exasperating, revealing as it does
a very rieh.fund of material, handled with reckless care- ;
less trees and disregard for the rules of grammar and for
the elements ©bdi’ferary construction . . . The whole
thing suggests the usefulness of a collaboration between
Mt. Becke and a good writer who lacked material.”
A few copies of the presentation edition of Ogilvie’s
Hearts of Gold (limited to 25, numbered), printed on art
-paper and bound in buckram, full gilt, may be had from
The'Bulletin office ; posted, 10s. 6 d.
Georges l>arien, writing in Reynolds’s, invents strange
similes for the smoked-sun of London. “An apology for
a sun ; a reddish biuidle of ( rags,. suddenly.pushed, like a
bung, in a cleft of the ashy clouds. At the sorry sight of
the star, heavy vapours, crawling on the soil, rose in a
breath of cold conre'mpt.” The smoked-sun vanished, but
presently took courage and reappeared—“ wee-wee, clean-
shaven, lifeless. AclerieaiSiwv. Ayel fo wish ball on a ground
of dirty purple ; a celestial Hutch cheese ; a grotesque
affair. And a blot, however, on the total atrocity of the
landscape. No blo’t wanted. T-here was an instant con-
spiracy of humid shadows, of ghost-like clouds, of smoke,
of fog, to wipe it out shamefully. Timid, not hardened
to the necessities of modern life, receding before so much
ugliness and filth, it hesitated in its course. And a
powerful column of smoke, cleverly shot by a chimn'ey-
staGk, and re-establishing harmony, victoriously swept it
away.” So much for the smoked-sun.
Cheetah: Well, you see* a new maga. has a hard row
to hoe, and we don’t want to make it being
hypercritical at the outset. Stick your knife into a tough
old war.rior, and let the baby grow G. : Sorry not
to care for. Please send address for return.
A.G.S.


T
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
- SYDNEY.
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOMEBUSH.
PIGS and CALVES at- - - CITY YARDS.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
ABE THE BEST SALESMEN.
Cheques sent day after sale. Offices t 48 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT (
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL. EYE TROUBLES. «-*,
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
- ■-*
The Leading: House for Sporting: Goods and Tobacco
I. Hollis
& Sons’
N?n
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gausre, Top Lever, Bar Action, Real Twist or Steel
Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt;, Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap ° "
end, chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless lon
HOLLIS & SONS’ “ KITCHENER,” 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, top lever double
bolted action, extended rib, twist or steel barrels, chambered for 2|in. cartridges,
left choke, right cyclinder, rebounding locks, hammers below luit of sight, raap
fore-end, half pistol walnut stock, GUARANTEED FOR SMOKELESS
POWDER. Absolutely the best value in the States at price
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “Siemen’s steel barrels, bo 1
choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Rdge pat£ n
fore-end, fitted with the Greener cross bolt, neatly engraved, cbambered tor
cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
absolutely the finest quality Gun in the States
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING RIFLE, 1903 model, Spocial
22 Calibre, fire* 10 shots in four seconds, weight
£5
£12 12s
£5
AMMUNITION.
Per 100. Per 1000.
UNIVERSAL CARTRIDGES
UNIVERSAL
NEW RIVAL „
NEW CLUB „
E. B. SMOKELESS „
AMBERITE „
E.O.
„ I2g. 0/-per 100
~ 16-. 0/6 „ „
„ 12*. 6/6 „ „
- 12-. 6/6 „ „
.. 160r12g. 9/- ~ „
.. ll/6 „ „
12g. 12/- „ „
mm
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
r
Folding
Collector Gun, 410 g.
A Splendid Shot Gun for Orchards, blued steel -a je n
barrel, case-hardened locks ■ *** **
WINCHESTER ” S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or Y sights, Q Ifi g
scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2£lbs MIO u
"REMINGTON ” S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in. barrel,
weight ... ... ... •••
WINCHESTER Repeating Rifle*, 1892 Model, any calibre, half or full a
magazine Round barrel, 555.; Octagon barrel, *
FIEFER’S "BAYARD” S.S. Rifle*, 22 Cal., 20in. octagon barrel, weight -t
3|lbs 13*. 6d. 1
ABSOLUTELY THE pEST VALUE IN THE STATES
0 0
17 6
1 6
GUARANTEED
PERFECTLY
ACCURATE^
RELIABLE.
p
x Jf\e r*j o\irye”f^ifle
Rifle Apcvrf
22 &horr or Lang, ft in fws. Bofr Action - -
Bound B/ued Sheet /ainch Barrel. defghrjftt*
fiffed rrifh p/aindorStid/rig Bach 5/jShf3
(duarranfeedfbr£&o Yt>z) . Pofished Hal net
dvDch. Pos/age onfftf/e.hdo ex/ho.
MICK SIMMONS,
HOYM<arher. Srpnev.
m
yVITH PLAIN SIGHTS 13/6
"SLIDING" SIGHT 3 TO 300Y05 15/fi
Cdrfftdgca Can Oafyße Delivered by Rail or Boa/:
. s
v
. \
DO YOU WANT HEALTH ?
Do vou want Happiness ? Would you like to feel Strong and Vigorous, to have the Vim and Vitality that will enable you to
enjoy life ;to the Brain and Nerve Power increased ;to have a head and steady hand. Would you like to feel like
that’ and more—Would you like to be without the pains and aches of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Bad
Joints “ weak Back? To have no Indigestion or Dyspepsia, no Sluggish Lirer or Constipation, to be
able to enjoy a good night’s rest and wake up refreshed, and to know that your strength is not slipping away .
do you want to bo as strong and healthy as any other man, and to be confident that what others can do is not im-
possible for you ? By the aid of a gentle current of Electricity passing into the body for a few hours eaoh night
you can be made so. You can obtain Health and Strength, and
Dr. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
will give it to you. It gives baok the Vital Spark and Vigor that makes a perfeot man. If you
want Strength and Vitality, it will give it to you ; if you are seeking Health, you will find it
bv using the Belt that cures thousands yearly. There is nothing so penetrating, nothing
that will relieve pain and weakness as speedily and surely. Electricity is a natural
element of the body that when lost causes weakness and disease. Everyone needs W,
for weakness attacks the strongest man.
OBTAIN OUR BOOKS.
To the man or woman who seeks to obtain health, strength and
vitality we offer a 64-page Illustrated Book, whioh deals exhaustively
with Electricity as a cure for most ailments. _ It explains fully
the advantages of the Electric Treatment in all Nervous and
Functional Disorders and Chronic Ailments that other means
fa.il to cure Tt illustrates our Belt and attachments, ana
how they are applied to any park cf the body or limbs, in
addition our Testimonial Books contain many photos,
and names of people who have been cured in this
country. We will send these books Free, postage
paid, and in plain envelope, to any address on
receipt of a post card or letter. Write for
them; they will be found a guide
perfect health.
HOURS—9 a.m.
to 830 p.m.
P 0"
They have
ail been Cured.
Read what they say.
Mr. HENRY HALSEY, Bulli,
N.S.W., writes: “Dear Sirs, —It gives
me the greatest of pleasure to state,
in answer to your letter, that the
Electric Belt I got from you has done my
back a world of good. The pains in my back . s
are not nearly so bad. also my general health is
much imr”' , veu. I have been wearing the Belt
some ti T e now, and find that it does all that was
claimed for it.”
Mr. WILLIAM CLOUTEN, of Mountain Homestead,
Martinville, Queensland, writes: “ I am more than pleased for
the benefit I have received from your Belt. I suffered from my
kidneys and Sciatica, but am now thankful I am better in every way.
One thousand pounds couldn’t buy back the benefits I have received,
and I deem the money spent the best investment I ever made.”
Mr. JOHN NORTH, farmer, of Yendon, Vic., speaks: “I now write
to tell you that, after wearing your Belt, I feel wonderfully different. At my
age, it is surprising what benefit the Belt has done me, as I am SO years of age,
I think it is the best cure in the world.”
Mr. A. JEWELL, of Illabo, N.S.W., states: “I have been wearing your Belt
and, thank God, I feel splendid. I feel a far different man, and never regret the money
spent on it. It was the best day’s work I ever did. It has also cured my son. I will do
all in my power for you.”
Mr. WM. SHEPHERD, of Kellyville, N.S.W., writes: “Your Belt is the best friend I
have in the house. My back that kept me from work for weeks at a time don’t bother me now, and
while lam an old man with grown grand-children, still I feel like the best of them. The Belt is won*
derful and I swear by it. I will go out of my way to induce any sick friends to try it.”
Mr. ROBERT McDOUGALL, of Parkes, N.S.W., who suffered from bad back and inactive liver, says:
“I have had no occasion to use the Belt for some time now, for I feel as well as ever I did. I used to wake up
with my back aching and a bad headache. Now I sleep well, wake up fresh, no headaches, and the bursting sen-
sation in my head is gone. My work does not feel any trouble to me at all now. I firmly believe that che Belt is
the greatest remedy of the age.”
Mr. W. J. OGLESBY, 14 Kegworth-st., Leichhardt, Sydney, states: “I am glad to say that the Soiatica has entirely
left me. I was told I would never get well or work again, but I am now working every day. After wearing your Belt
for two months, I feel as well as ever I did, free from pain, in good health, and looking years younger, my friends say. I am
indeed grateful to you.”
Mr. CHARLES SHEPHERD, of Jamieson Town, N.S.W., writes : “For 17 years Iwas a cripple. I tried so-called Remedies
but got no benefit. My boys got me to Sydney, where I got your Belt, and from that day to this I have never felt better in my life,
and lam perfectly cured. I thank God my footsteps were directed to The McLaughlin Institute.”
the McLaughlin go.,
lOOW. Market-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Office—l67S. Swanston-street
New Zealand Offioe—B4 Willie-street, Welli.'eton.
William Charles Crawford.


A NOVEL PRESENT-
f)N receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 16ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
5* fc> //))'
y
Sufferers, we have
the ONE and ONLY
ELECTRO-GALVANIC)
BELT which will CURE
all NERVOUS and othei
DISEASES in all STAGES
however caused, and
RESTORE the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOUR. Our marvellous
Electro-Galvanic Belt gives
a STEADY, SOOTHING
CURRENT that can be felt
by the wearer th rough all
he WEAK PARTS of the
BODY. Remember, we give
a WRITTEN GUARANTEE
that our Electro-Galvanic
Belt will PERMANENTLY
CURE YOU. If it does
not we will promptly
RETURN the full amount
paid.
NOTICE.—-Before purchasing, we prefer that you call
and examine them, and see them TESTED on the MIL-
LIAMPEREMETER, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and PRICE LIST (post free) which will convince the
MOST SCEPTICAL.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
DEPT. H.,
63 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
VANISHED VIGOR,
■ Exhausted or Debilitated Nerve
Force Speedily and
Permanently Restored.
For Forty Years I have been curing thousands suffer-
ing from the same Weakness as you. Write to-day
for Treatise on Nerve and Brain exhaustion, posted
SIX STAMPS. My
Electro-Regenerator,
The Triumph of Medical Electricity.
It is not a Belt. No Vineoaii or Acids to be used.
APPLIED DIRECTLY TO THE WEAK SPOT, AND
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, m.r.c.s., eng.
129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
■««!*>
fif/etheWor/d
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER,
but the acquisition of knowledge is impos-
sible without a good memory. The memory
must be trained if the brain is to do good,
work. The memory can be successfully
developed by proper training, just as an.
athlete’s muscles are developed by proper
exercise,
PELMAN’S SYSTEM OF
MEMORY TRAINING
is a practical and successful system which
benefits all brain workers. Ic will make
a poor memory good, and a good one
better. Simple and interesting exercises.
Taught in 6 Languages. Write for
Booklet and copies of Testimonials,
free on application to the
Secretary, PELMAN’S SCHOOL
Of MEMORY TRAINING
Box 402. (J P.O,
MELBOURNE.
And 4 Bloomsbury St.,
LONDON, W.O.
FOR BABY’S SION
SCAI» KIND MR
Something for Mothers to Think About
EVERY CHILD tom into the world with an inherited
or early developed tendency to distressing, disfiguring
humours of the skin, scalp, and blood, becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not only because of its suf-
fering but because of the dreadful fear that the disfigura-
tion is to be lifelong and mar its future happiness and
prosperity. Hence it becomes the duty of mothers of
such afflicted children to acquaint themselves with the
best, the purest, and most effective treatment available,
viz., THE CUTICURA TREATMENT.
Warm baths with Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales
and soften the thickened cuticle, gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, to instantly allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, to be followed in the severer cases by mild doses of Cuticura Resol-
vent Pills (see below), to cool and cleanse the blood, are all that can be
desired for the alleviation of the suffering of skin-tortured infants and
children and the comfort of worn-out, worried mothers. A single set is
often sufficient to cure when the best physicians fail.
Millions of Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticuba Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for
cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping of falling hair, for
softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings,
and chaflngs, in the form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
Cuticura Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated) are prepared to meet the wants of
delicate women, and sensitive children, and are pure, sweet, and tasteless. They are
beyond question the most successful blood purifiers and humour cures yet compounded.
Cuticuba Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Bail, Faria. I’OTIBtt Diiug and Ciiem.
Coed., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A. •* AU about the Skin," free.
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician*!
Cure for Gout,
Ilheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS]
IESIAi
m
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
m
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
ANCHOVY
IN LARGE AND SMALL TINS.
Manufrs.—JOHN MOIR & SONS, Ltd., LONDON, ABERDEEN and
SEVILLE. Head Office: 9 & 10, Great Tower St., LONDON, E.C.
WILL ANDRADE’S m,« BOOKS
tf&i
BOOK OP NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter., Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ’•
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise :Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, ]s9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Datk,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
6s. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Makb Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Our Mew
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
ANANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7: Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURHE —.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGH.S.
I BEFORE GOING TO BED I
USE
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth
Powder
instead of leaving your teeth exposed
all night to the spread of decay.
It is antiseptic, pleasant and
refreshing, and has the largest sale
of any dentifrice.
CALVERT’S
Prickly-Heat Soap
(10% Crystal Carbolic)
is a pleasant antiseptic soap, specially suited
for bath and toilet use in hot climates.
P. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester
ENGLAND.
NERVOUSNESS.
EiOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER. G.P.0., BYDNBY.
ffllJ
m
m
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasse.s are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NABT, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
I
NOTBCE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica, i
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or ]
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstue & Truman, of i
71 Old Kent Road, Loudon. J
Renowned for over a century for quick j
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all j
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists *,
in the Australian Colonies. i
Truman s NURSERY LOTION, j
By one application only, effectually destroys *
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. & Is. 6d. I
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN'S ,
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, ,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored! In
Four Weeks by using
RK CORO?
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY",
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and (hattcicd
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 128., or four quantities in one, 368. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen Bt,
Melbourne; N.S. lF.—Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from I7st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydn®y<
Sending, mention this paper.
W-.
"TjiB.EE BY POST.—A reliable
•*- recipe from the SPECIAL
FORMULA of that FAMOUS
French HOSPITAL PHYSICIAN
and PARISIAN SPECIALIST, Dr.
RABONSKI. A positive CURE
for the WEAK and NERVOUS.
Address—
PARISIAN ACENCV,
Castlereagfcst., Sydney.
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
Free to Men.
WRITE to me ami I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking', and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
Hons. Arm and Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St. .Melbourne.


vN:
LpjCJfjgJ. AV— J.
£
SSaTTß^ma
Grandfather
used it over 60
years ago.
Then, the children, and now
the grandchildren.
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
The oldest and best remedy
for coughs, colds, bronchi-
tis, and all throat and lung
troubles. Beware imitations.
In large and small bottles.
Avoid constipation. Hasten a cure by the
use of Ayer’s Pills.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lovell, Mass., U. S. A.
SPOONER’S
SPOONER’S
V
*
*
ATI NT LEATHER 800 TS
GLAZED MOSS.?
'.' : r; ■ .••
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, ete.
Reynolds’s
Newspaper
Keeps the Democratic Flag
flying all over the World.
REA.D IT.
JOHN HICKS - - - Strand, London, W.C.
2
it
To Avoid
CHOLERA, FEVERS
DYSENTRY
USE
SANITAS
Disinfecting Fluid
Pronounced by the Medical
faculty to be
Zhe greatest
germ Destroyer
known
to . .
Science.
absolutely non-poisonous
and fragrant.
Spread it about the house and jouM be
Proof Against Disease.
The “SAKITAB” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LOKDQN E.
BONNINGTO
eONNI.NGTONS
Carrageen
OR
IRISH MOSS
tA .
[George B'ONNiNcToh
CHRISTCHURCH
CARRAGEEN
Q»
IRISH MOSS
<£? is invaluable rnediciho 7ihs
the extraordinary property op
immediately relieving the chest
cp the congealed phlegm.con.se
yuently causing apree expector-
ation without sirainrng. Op pro-
moting heolthy respiration, t freeing
the air tubes, and cyivirup strength,
to the musci/lar organs-
m
m
RIFLE AND PISTOL
CARTRIDGES
mm
“ It’s the shots that hit that count.” Winches-
ter Rifle and Pistol Cartridges hit, that is,
shoot accurately, and strike a good, hard, pen-
etrating blow. They are loaded with great
care and precision, and made in calibers
suitable for all kinds of game, from rabbits
to grizzly bears. If you want reliable ammu-
nition, buy the time-tried Winchester make.
SALE BV ALL DEALERS.
FOR
IbSI
I
Queensland Agents :
Concerning Elgin Watches^*-
-• 1 - 1 x-c*
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES :
GENTS.’—4OB, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Bilver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to—
SWIFT & GRICE,
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
HUNDREDS of PEOPLE DO NOT KNOW
that they an buy a really GOOD watch lor very little money.
yiyHE Watch H. F. SMITH sells for 21S. is the right kind ; it will
I n ever go out of fashion; it has a field all to itself—its very own.
There is nothings that competes with it*
There are “cheaper ”
watches, but the
quality ' of those is
“cheaper” than the
When you know this
is absolutely the best
watch in the world
for the money, you
will wear one.
/
H. F. SMITH
BRISBANE
e=3
21/-
21/-
The case is of Solid Silver, extra strong and engine turned,
keyless action. The works are Jewelled in all important parts.
Accurate to the second, honest all through, and
the price is amazingly small for so much timekeeping worth.
H. F. SMITH, Queensland Leading Jeweller
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA (Q.)
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pillars of Society.
Society’s a little clan.
All capitalists are agreed
To work upon this gospel plan—
A Fat Man’s economic creed —
That laborers must sweat and bleed,
Root up rich mines, despoil the sea,
And sometimes starve, that they may feed—
The Pillars of Society.
The millionaire, a mighty man ;
The insect crowds that round him breed,
The sinner and the publican,
And parsons, battling for their meed,
(Who both for souls and dollars plead)—
These are the holy powers that be,
Those who by Moral Force succeed—
The Pillars of Society.
Hoist up the Union Jack, and scan
Heroes who sow life-giving seed,
The Parliament’ry caravan,
Chock-full of patriots, who lead
The people, just for love, not greed—
What care such men for salary ?
Then into chaos they proceed—
The Pillars of Society.
vxo.
L.B.E.
The Voice.
It speaks when the whirlwind is still,
In the pause by the way,
When the dogs of the house are all sleeping,
Sleek beasts that have eaten their fill,
And have wearied of play ;
And when I lonely vigil am keeping.
It sighs like the break of the sea
On a far-away shore;
And it trills like a nightingale singing,
That deep in the wild woods is free,
And that cares not to soar
To the low-lying thickets a-clinging.
It may be the voice of a sage—
Not a dreamer of dreams
In a world that is vain of its starkness —
Who opens the unopened page,
And who sees more than seems
In the light that hath never known darkness.
It may be the voice of a fool —
It is fond of a jest,
And it laughs when I sigh in my sinning ;
It shows me by measure, and rule,
That the worst get the best,
And the best is but best in the winning.
It may be the voice of a maid —
Oh ! her heart I can read ;
In her eyes I see pity, not passion ;
She would have me docile and staid,
But the world takes no heed
Of the songs that she gives me to fashion.
It may be the voice of the wine
Of Parnassus I love,
When content, with my feet on the fender,
The family snore is divine
As the coo of a dove ;
And my heart groweth mellow and tender.
via
ANDREW SARD.
The Death of God.
Methought I saw God dying, and
The millions round His bed ;
And all in every planet knew
They’d pass when He was dead.
In a wan light He lay somewhere,
Where all was strange and dim,
And one by one each living thing
Felt the life leaving Him.
The fiercest creatures lost their power,
The brightest eyes grew pale;
A weakness spread through every star,
Like a funereal tale.
Through Heaven and Hell a tremor passed ;
The fiends and seraphim
Had hushed their cries and songs, and came
To share their doom with Him.
And o’er the Eyes that looked on all
A deathly glamor passed,
And He knew all that He had made
Was one with Him at last;
As with His final breath a boom
Crashed through the worlds, and He
Let go the awful stress He’d kept
On Life’s immensity.
N.s.w.
R. CRAWFORD.
The Spinster.
Here at my attic window, lone, I sit,
Hands upon lap; the stocking that I knit,
Unheeded ; while to west my eyes I turn,
Striving from fading, sun-kissed clouds to learn
Something of Love ; whose sun has never let
One bright beam fall on all my bleak life yet.
Oft in the quietude have I conceived
In my own mind imag’nings, half believed,
Of some loved lips that oft to mine have pressed ;
Of two strong hands that mine have long caressed;
And then I wake—ah, you can guess the rest!
I mourn (with joy) a sorrow ne’er possessed.
Sometimes I dream that Love still seeks my face,
Searching the years, where I have left no trace ;
And coldly in the shadows as I wait
The end, I think that Love may knock too late,
And entering, find that she he seeks has flown,
For Death, more sure than he, will find my home.
VIO.
HIPHEN.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle „
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
. cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq .Chairman; The Hon. A. W Mbeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. , Senator J. T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winciicombe, Esq.. M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F S S
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ' ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
MAKES tht SKIN
at SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
*
08
(T*
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
m
There’s SECURITY in
ITTLE
IVER
V Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
iFURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. f
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter's
New Zealand Loan « Mercantile Agency Co.
x. tea.
SYDNE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Mo da. la
Works s Birmingham, England!
m
These series
. of Pens neither
k scratch nor spurt
#They glide over
Jthe roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
/£
\
\
FREE!
Cut this out and send it
to us and we will send
you free, postage pre-
paid, in plain wrapper,
a copy of the new edition of our splendid, invaluable
and standard illustrated Medical Work, which
acknowledged medical treatise should be read by
•very adult.
Dr. Austin Electric Belt
Is an up-to date appliance, whereby electricity in a gentle and
continuous current saturates every nerve, muscle, fibre and organ
of the human system. It absolutely cures all cases of Nervous
Disorders, weak back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver, Kidney and
Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go Pains, and that tired feeling.
We don’t ask anyone to take chances on our in-
vention. If we fail the loss is ours, all you lose is your time; all
we ask is, give us security that you will pay, and you oan have our
appliances, and
WHEN CURED, PAY.
We make this proposition to you fairly, and carry it out fairly.
You don’t have to pay till you are cured. We could not do this if
our Belt was not the very best. We warrant that it gives a strong
current and will not burn. We receive thousands of letters from
grateful patients, which can be seen at our office, or copies will be sent by post. Delay no
longer. Write at once. We can help you.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.
DEPT. M.,
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
New Zealand Branch: 19 Princes Street, Dunedin.
The “ MONARCH ” Gramophone is the “ King ” of Talking Machines.
The “ DE LUXE ” Gramophone is the “ Queen ” of Talking Machines.
The “MONARCH Junr.” Gramophone is the “ Prince” of Talking Machines.
WHICH ONE DO YOU WANT ?
Or will you take the whole “ROYAL FAMILY”?
Wholesale Agents in Other States:
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland
HEINDOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
W. MACLEAN & CO., 37 Crawford-street, Dunedin.
Retail Agents in all Towns
throughout the States. . .
fP
Send for Price Lists
and Catalogues of
Records.
The ‘MONARCH 9
Triple Spring
Gramophone,
Fitted with
Tapering Arm,
complete—
£l4 10s.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia;
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


A Torturing Liver.
"HN EXPERIMENT."
The Best Bargain I Ever Made.
The Case of IVJrs. B. LAWLER.
(BY A REPORTER).
The inventions of paper and the press
have put an end to all the restraints with
which our forefathers were fettered, and
they have not only made everyone a writer,
but have also enabled every mind to pour
itself into print and diffuse itself over the
whole intellectual world. The consequences
are inestimable, as, if the slow and laborious
operation of writing on parchment was still
in existence it would be difficult to acquaint
all our readers with such important matters
as are spoken of by Mrs. Bridget Lawler,
of Northwood-street, Camperdown.
“I was once stricken with a terrible
malady,” began that lady. “It was an
attack of rheumatism which started in my
feet and worked its way into my hands, the
pain being so great that the joints felt as if
they were being screwed round in a vice. I
was very stout when I was first taken ill,
but four years’ intense suffering took all the
flesh off my body, besides making me very
weak and irritable. Some days the pains
were not so bad, while at other times they
were so severe that I was a regular cripple
through them, and could not get out of bed.
At the best my limbs were almost useless,
for I had to go from one room to another
on my hands and knees, so that will tell
you how sorely pressed I was.”
“ Did any complications arise?” queried
the newspaper man..
“ They did indeed—any amount of them,
for my system seemed to be upset right
throughout. One of the chief causes of my
weakness was through my food coming back
almost as soon as it was taken, and I hardly
got five minutes’ respite from retching both
day and night. No wonder, then, that my
eyes felt swollen and that my sight was bad,
and that I used to lie in a state of exhaustion
for hours, with my head pierced by sharp
pains as if rheumatism was there also. Oh !
it was a wretched time for me, and one
which I would not go through again for
thousands of pounds. I thought the vomit-
ing was caused through food being taken
against my inclination, but I was bound to
eat a liitle sometimes, even though my
appetite was gone, or I would have collapsed
altogether. A heavy kind of pain in the
chest was very troub'esome, too, as it
seemed to weigh me down to such an extent
that I could not get my breath properly,
and thoughts of smothering often entered
my mind, although I was not afraid of
doing so in my sleep, because I very rarely
got any. It was quite an extraordinary
event for me to sleep three hours at a time,
and only happened when I was so exhausted
that even my tortures could not keep me
awake any longer ; but for all that I did
not feel rested afterwards, as the nasty
dreams I had seemed to take away all the
refreshing influences of sleep. When my
eyes opened again I still felt languid and
heavy and so low spirited and desolate that
all brightness seemed to have vanished from
my life. After taking any necessary
nourishment my stomach filled out with
wind, tfuis bringing into force another dis-
comfort, which frequently developed into
pains like the cramps, and lasting till every-
thing, as usual, was vomited. About the
shoulders, too, I had reason to complain
owing to irritating pains getting a hold
there, while nothing could be more un-
welcome than the sickly taste I had in my
mouth every morning, besides having a
whitish coating on my tongue. These
symptoms made me understand very clearly
that my liver was deranged to a serious
degree, and I suppose my doctors knew that
as well, but still I did not benefit myself in
any way by remaining under their treat-
ment. ”
“ How many doctors did you have?”
“ It would be very hard for me to say
exactly. Indeed, I had so many that I
cannot remember them all, and I have no
reason to keep them in mind, because not
ona of them did me any good. The more I
went to the worse I got, and then I started
taking advertised pills and medicines, one
particular kird of which having such an
injurious effect upon me that after taking a
certain quantity I was almost paralysed on
one side of my body. There was very little
medicine I had not taken more or less of,
but I was now afraid to resort to any of
them again. I went on in misery for a
while without anything, but, being so help-
less that I could not even handle a cup, I
thought I would never get better that way,
and as I had tried everything but Clements
Tonic it would not do much harm to see
what that medicine was like.”
“ Was your experiment attended with any
better results ? ”
“ It was the best bargain I ever made in
my life when I bought some Clements Tonic,
for there was no uncertainty or indecision
about its action or my internal organs,
which felt its curative propensities much
more readily than I had deemed possible.
For a long time past my nerves had been
very weak, and I was upset and tremulous
at all sorts of trifling incidents, but that
was one of my troubles which Clements
Tonic remedied straight away. My nervous
systSm was greatly invigorated after taking
three or four bottles, and then I ceased
meeting difficulties half way, for I was so
much brighter in spirits and more hopeful
through receiving such benefit from
Clements Tonic that I thought I might yet
leave my sufferings behind if I gave that
medicine a fair trial. And thus when each
bottle was finished I got another, the
returns for my outlay being a good healthy
appetite and a steady falling off in my
pains. My headaches did not last long
against Clements Tonic, and all the time
my liver symptoms were losing their in-
tensity. 1 slept well at nights, because my
rheumatic pains were less violent, whilst
those about my shoulders and chest had
left altogether, leaving me to breathe with-
out the least distress. I got up with my
mouth free from its objectionable taste, and
after each meal of the day there was an
absence of flatulence and consequent pains ;
but to describe each healthful blessing
which came from every bottle of Clements
Tonic would, perhaps, take up too much of
your time. I must content myself by say-
ing that in a few weeks my internal com-
plaints were quite obliterated, and I was
able to get about my work with a cheerful
heart and a contented mind. The
strengthening and disease-removing powers
of Clements Tonic simply astounded me
after the many expet iences I had with other
medicines, and I would be very ungrateful
indeed if I kept this knowledge to myself.”
“ Did your various pains leave as quickly
as the rest ? ”
“ No ; but although it took some time to
get me well and strong again in every
respect there is none the less credit due to
CUments Tonic, as it was the only medicine
which was able to bring me back to health,
and I am willing to let you publish my story
in any way you like.”
_ STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Bridokt Lawler, of Northwood-street,
Camperdown, Sydney, in the Sate of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting
of four folios, and consecutively numbered from one
to four, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permbsion to publish iu any
way my statements-which I give voluntarily, and
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1900.
JM
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown, this
twentyfifth day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
ROBERT ELSTUB, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
To depy compbxitiow.
WINES The Best Brands Only o) SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS, CORDIALS, to.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id,
rott Free.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for——^
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
ril Try It”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
gapiliarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasra or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
BOTH AGENTS.
Tkt JttiuU.
CRAIG & AITKEIM, N.S. W. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
I
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
'gout
m
Acetylene
Gas
TABLE LAMPS.
OUR ADVANCE id
entirely new in construc-
tion and operation. Price
£1 7s. 6d.
ACETYLENE GAS
INSTALLAT: ON3 for
Towns, Hospitals, Schools
of Art, Business Establish-
ments, Private Dwellings
Etc.
Send for our Booklet—
-11 Artificial Daylight, and
How to Make It.” Free on
application.
Largo Stock of CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
always on hand.
JAS. MARTIN & CO
161 Clarence St f
SYDNEY.
RUPTURE
FREE CURE.
Wonderful Home Treatment that Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Bice (Dept. 1317), 8 & 9. Stonecutter
Street, London, E.C., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, darger, operation, or
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. To
Mr. A. Docherty.
avoid all questions of doubt, be
sends free to every sufferer a
free trial of his method, and
there can be no earthly reason
why anyone,rich or poor, should
not avail themselves of this
generous offer. As an instance
of this remarkable method,
the cure of Mr. J. J. Hogan,
Cobar, N.S.W., is well worth
noticing. He was cured at the
age of 70 years, after suffering
10 years. He made an affidavit
to this effect, of his own free
will, before two J.P's.
Mr. J. Eubank, a farmer of Yarloop, Western
Australia, was cured after suffering 48 years froni
a scrotal rupture. Mrs. F. Medley, 177, Sturt
Street, Ballarat, Victoria, Australia, was cured
after suffering 5 years. Mr. A. Docherty, 23, War-
wick Street, Birkenhead, Cheshire, England, was
cured of an irreducible scrotal rupture—one of the
worst kinds known. No treatment he had used
would enable him to return the rupture to its
proper place. He tried the method of Dr. Bice,
which not only reduced the rupture, but also
effected its complete cure, and he is now as sound
as a bell. A full description and sample of this
remarkable method of cure will be gladly sent
upon application. It has cured thousands. Do not
hesitate to give it a trial Write at once—to day.
Don't delay in a matter of such Importance.
“A White Australia Impossible.'*
From The Argus, Melbourne, April 13, 1904.
" Mr. E. W. Cole is forwarding to 880 news-
papers and ro.ooo citizens, of all professions
and positions in the Commonwealth, a minia-
ture paper and a postcard, in which are epito-
mized the main arguments against a ‘White
Australia,’ which he is convinced • would be
unpayable, morally wrong, and altogether im-
possible of continuance.’ The little paper has
been produced in a form likely to attract notice,
and those who receive postcards are asked to
vote for the five which they consider strongest
of the thirty reasons enumerated. When the
return cards are received, Mr. Cole will publish
the relative votes for the whole of the thirty
reasons for the information of the public. The
reasons are as follows:—1. Because every
seventh person in the Commonwealth is already
more or less coloured, and gradually many will
blend. 2. Because the sun is the cause of skin-
colour. 3. Because all Australians will in time
become coloured. 4. Because the white man
cannot work in the tropics. 5. Because white
women become wrecks in the tropics. 6. Be-
cause white children cannot be reared in the
tropics. 7. Because the coloured man must
develop the tropics. 8. Because Jesus Christ
was a coloured man. 9. Because Jesus taught
the universal brotherhood of man. 10. Because
humanity exists in every human heart. 11.
Because the feeling of human kinship is univer-
sal. ' 12. Because all mankind are capable of
inter-blending. 13. Because all mankind'are*
inter-blending everywhere. 14. Because the
British people are for universal freedom. 15.
Because the British Empire has seven coloured
to one white. 16. Because the Act is an insult
to all coloured nations. 17. Because Australia
will tire of being a laughing-stock. 18. Because
Australia’s own humanity is against the Act,
and all Christian teaching is, must, and will be
against it. 19. Because the Act is against the
interests of commerce. 20. Because the Act
prevents the development of Australia. 21,
Because our white birth-rate is diminishing.
22. Because enough white emigrants will not
come so far. 23. Because we are surrounded
by coloured people. 24. Because Australia has
a hundred times the area of Scotland, and a few
millions of white people have no right to mono-
polize it. 25. Because Japan, China, India, and
Java are awakening. 26. Because China has
400 millions, and is overflowing. 27. Because
India has 300 millions, and is overflowing. 28.
Because Java’s 30 millions are very near to
Australia. 29. Because the whole world belongs
to those who need it. 30. Because God has
made mankind of one flesh and blood."
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
ill the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeepers
ol N.S.W.
Directlone for Use. —Throw the Carbide down the tube;
the Machine does the rest.
Ceware of Infringers of our Patents
In spite ot the fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply C rbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than is
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. ISO.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
? II
ROTHerhaivis
ENGLISH WATCHES.
OHO
v9*«
E
M
%
%
'Jewellers.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
jOLD BY ALL
WHOCANSHOW-
/
S'
DOfi
m
4* '
m
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
models
£2*loto£s-s'o
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Kites,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to onjf
port In Aumtralamla,
Motor Cars and Motocyclei
Tyres , Accessaries, Sporting Goods A
»Sewlng Machines Half Usual Prices.
►Write for Catalogs and Special or>
fer using sufflclt nt foreign postage.
MEAD GYGLE GO* Dept. 339 a
UIIUGO, C. 8.4, »u(J tITUKrOOt, kSULINO.


RUDY.
The
Genuine
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
Has just been re-furnished and renovated throughout in the most up-to-date style, and
close attention to the comfort of its guests makes it an easy first in the public’s esteem.
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Bingle Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2 30; DINNER, 5.30 till 7.30
Special Feature- RACE DAYS LU NCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying; for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
ROBERTA’ SOXEL.
SYDNEY.
We Share
Our Profits
With You.
You are practically
Our Partners
DURING OUR
“GIVING UP THE RETAIL” SALE
We must have room for the expansion of our wholesale business, hence we are shutting
down absolutely on the retail.
Our Silver-plated Ware has all the Weight, Durability, and
Finish of Sterling Silver at a Minimum of the Cost*
SILVER TEA SERVICES
COFFEE SETS
TEA SETS
DESSERT DISHES
ENTREE DISHES
LIQUOR STANDS
PHOTO FRAMES
MIRRORS
CRUETS
KNIVES
FORKS
SPOONS, &c.
REM lIVIBER- What wc say we do, we do do.
Holdsworth, Macpherson &Co.
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
You will find nothing; better —
If you search the world through—than
“CAMEO” CIGARETTES
Cool, Fragrant, Delicious and Perfectly Pure.
I
1
1
SSL
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co-,
SYDNEY.
Thf system of paying for Room only an
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary■
JAW-'*'*
ITI3
i.HTJ'itf
I ■ I ■!
ini
f !U
313
mil I iJ
n 11
IHI
3181
AXIS
tl ttD-l
i hfi»
HOTEL
MIETROPOLE
SYDNEY
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
A SHORT TALK
ON A GOOD
THING
If the “ happy-go-lucky-slap-it-
up-and-let-'er-go ” kind of wall
will do then you don't want
RUBEROID DAMPCOURSE. But if you want a wall that will
be damp-proof, a wall that will give you a healthy habita-
tion, and abolish doctors’ bills, then you DO want
The Original
and Genuine
RUBEROID DAMPCOURSE.
E. RICH & CO., LTD. Sydney and Brisbane.
Wholesale Agents—


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office,'Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 25. —No. 12G4.
THURSDAY, MAY 5, 1904.
Prick 6d.
“ in consequence of the Birth Rate Com-
mission having di-awn attention to the lack
' of knowledge exhibited by girls in the treat
rnent. of-infants, the Minister for Public In
: struetion baa appointed a Sydney lady doctor
as lecturer on. infantile hygiene to the depart
mout.'* •
The Tasmanian. Govt, has announced
that if its Occupancy Tax Bill is again
rejected by the ' Council, it will take
the constitutional course and.' dixsoh>•
the Assembly.
If thine enemy offend time, kick
thine own dog ; it's safest.
~~~Neu: prowl.
Premier JonTSn ' M^natlal., m®inU
"■ a..--
'.■ ; . '3v
Deakin and Reid both .inform
Premier Watson, that he is only held
up through their support and for-
bearance.
The Lecturer : “.But before
proceeding further with
this experiment, I’ll trouble
someone in the audience to
loan me a real live baby!”
Kfeni ; “ Look”here, Alfred, we’re hold
irtg.this man up, ain.’t
POT-ROILING POLITICS.
* The delicate question which
Of us two goes to the kettle arose, •
And we argued it out. as sich * "
Yarn of the Nanny ReU Gilbert.
*• A LEADER WITHOUT A PARTY.
Federal Minister Hughes : “ Mr. Reid is now in the
ludicrous and humiliating position-of being a leader without
G.ILR. : “ Who says,l have nothing to lead ?
POLITICAL POT-POURRI.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia, lor the A n strut inns."
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, Only).
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ..... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin 'posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc,, and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to he addressed to the Editor.
Special Votive.
The contents of this paper are copyright hy the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved hy
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand . that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A tnnteiirs in lllttclc >iiul White •
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, .of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but, unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludyate Circus.
South Africa. — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs, li. A. Thompson & Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal;
Solomon and Wilson, 22 Hout Street, Capetown ; 11. R.
Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co., Rhodesia ;
and others.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen's Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai .-—Brewer and Co.
Hfce §^zz2elzoi.
THURSDAY, MAY 5, 1904.
PUTTING THEM “ON THE LAND.”
“If he gets the land he receives no help from the
Government the first two years. Now, I suggest
that the Government publish where the available
land for selection is in the daily papers, and help the
settler in all ways that are possible to secure the land,
and then advance farming implements, a cow for the
children, horses, and food for the first 12 months, at a
low rate of interest; all to be paid back to the State in
five years. I know over a dozen young married men who
can get scarcely any work, who would gladly go on the
land if they could get it on easy terms, but they are
afraid their wives and children will starve the first 12
months.” —Extract from pathetic letter in Sydney daily
paper about “ going on the land.’’
There are two things which may be done
with the unemployed of Australia —they may be
provided with work in new manufacturing indus-
tries, or they may be “ put on the land.” This is
leaving out of consideration a third alternative —
that they may be temporarily provided with un-
profitable* jobs on public works paid for out of
borrowed money, for this third alternative doesn’t
solve the problem; it merely postpones it for a
time, and after each postponement the problem
returns in a more virulent form, and on a
larger scale, and deposits itself on the chest of
a more helpless and demoralised community.
Taking the two honest alternatives, therefore, the
question is whether the unemployed shall be put
on the land (where they almost necessarily fail) by
the help of State aids, bonuses and bounties, or
whether they shall be supplied with work at which
they need not fail, by the-establishment of manu-
facturing industries through State aid in the shape
of Protection and bonuses. The alleged Freetrade
party holds, in a general way, that the unem-
ployed should be “put on the land,” though how
such an amazing delusion arose in an allegedly
sane community Heaven only knows, and what-
ever knowledge it possesses on the subject is likely
to remain a secret.
* * * *
The unemployed, mostly, know nothing at all
about the land, which is the first and most serious
drawback. Also, they have no money, which is
the second drawback and almost equally serious.
The land, in the first place, has to be given to
them, which is in itself a very large bonus or
bounty, and a most reckless and injudicious variety
of State socialism, and a pauperising proceeding,
and an act of class legislation, and a pampering or
coddling of things that the Neild-
Pulsford-Smith crowd strongly reprobates.
When they get on the land it is of no
use to 1 them because of their want of
knowledge, for agriculture is a highly technical
business, needing far more special train-
ing than bootmaking, weaving, 'spinning, hat-
making, foundry work, or any of a hundred other
mechanical processes. Someone has to teach
these new sham agriculturists, unless they are
to be complete failures. Then they have to be
provided with houses, tools, clothes, food, and
other necessaries, to support them during the
lengthy period that must elapse before the land,
even under the best treatment, will yield any-
thing. Then taxes have to be remitted. They
have to be helped with advances of money, on no
security worth mentioning, by a State land bank ;
N.S.W. has been making a disastrous experiment
at lending money, borrowed in England, to the
wrong class of settlers ; the result has been so
disastrous that its Advances to Settlers Depart-
ment apparently dare not publish a balance-sheet.
And even when the N.S.W. settler has, in some
measure, taken root, he is more or less pampered,
coddled, bonused, and hand-fed all through life.
He is exempted from local taxation to help him keep
his head above water. He receives grants of seed
wheat in bad seasons. There being—through the
scarcity of manufacturing population—no per-
manent local market for much of his produce, he
is allowed a State bonus on all the produce he
exports and on all his other produce as well; this
isn’t honestly and openly called a bonus, but
it is granted surreptitiously by deducting the
amount from his railway freight and carrying
his output for almost nothing. And, with all
these devices, the result isn’t satisfactory. The
ordinary settler makes some kind of a living ; the
occasional attempts to put the amateur settler on
the land have been most disastrous failures.
* * * *
Certainly, if all the good coastal country
was made available by a remorseless process of
breaking up the big estates for close settlement,
agriculture, might be made to pay on an honest
basis. That is to say, it might be made to pay in
the hands of people who have some capital and
some knowledge of agriculture. And seeing that
that class is abundantly available, any attempt to
settle the unemployed on the land is utterly
ridiculous. The country doesn’t want to give
away land that can be sold; to do so is to
perpetrate a fraud on the whole community. It
doesn’t want to bring agriculture into contempt
by making it the pursuit of tailors, waiters, and
wharf laborers, and to reduce the possible return
from the industry by putting the land into
incompetent hands. It doesn’t want to elbow out
good agriculturist by giving the land to bad
ones. Above all, it can’t afford to pay all
these enormously costly and never-ending
bonuses in the shape of hopelessly unprofitable
railway freights and so on, _ merely to
keep m existence a pauperised variety of agri-
culture which very often ends in failure. The
news, conveyed in sucli letters as that quoted
above, that there are any number of people ready
to go on the land if they are advanced farming
implements, horses, cows, 12 months’ food, etc.,
on no visible security has nothing cheering about
it. There are any number of skilled workers who
want much less than that; all they desire is that
the Government should lend them a building
suitable for a boot-factory, and advance the leather
and machinery without security ; but though their
prospects might be much the better of the two,
such a proposition looks so absurd that no one
would dream of writing about it to any daily
paper. There is hardly any manufacturing in-
dustry which wouldn’t be started on such terms
as these, and started by competent men, to supply
a real local demand —not to export the produce
on spec, with State assistance, to a distant, pre-
carious and glutted foreign market.
• * • *
The only remedy for lack of employment is to
find the unemployed work on wages at some self-
supporting industry. If he is an unskilled worker
then he needs to be supplied with employment at
some industry—there are many of them —where
comparatively little skill is required. There is no
remedy in finding him a useless job which will end
as soon as the loan money gives out and leave the
country w'orse off by the amount of the annual
interest bill. Arid there is worse than no remedy
• —there is sheer lunacy—in the proposal that the
evil should be met by getting the unemployed
citizen to start on his own account in a business
which requires a good deal of capital and an
immensity of special training—that being unskilled
and penniless he should promptly become a land-
owner, and an employer, and a person deeply
skilled in the rotation of crops, and possessed of
houses, fences, implements of husbandry and a
sound instinct in drainage, irrigation and the like.
It would be cheaper in the end to make him an
engineer or a Judge. It would probably cost
about £2OO per unemployed, in free land and other
aids, to put the average workless individual “on
the land ” in any way that would give him even a
very faint chance of staying there as a per-
manent and self-supporting institution, and
the country isn’t rich enough for such experi-
ments. There is somehow or other, even in
the most mechanical Tory mind, a consciousness
of this, consequently no serious attempt is ever
made to put the unemployed on the land in any
large and general fashion. But whenever the
unemployed difficulty is a little worse than usual
(it usually seems to be a little worse than usual),
and there is a possibility of an attempt being made
to establish, by adequate Protection, local indus-
tries which are much needed for the supply of
local wants, and in which the unemployed can get
his first cash return next Saturday instead of
waiting two years or so for a precarious crop—
whenever this happens in N.S.W., progress is
stifled by the remark that the real, true genuine
remedy is to “put the unemployed on the land.”
And as a rule, while the means of putting him on
the land are being considered, a loan is floated to
stave things off in the meantime.
* * * *
The idea that the unemployed difficulty can be
remedied by seizing the individual unemployed by
the ear and lifting him out of the ruck with a virtual
present of so many acres and the loan without
security of a horse, cow and twelve months’
provisions, or by some such device, and then leaving
him steeped in ignorance on the soil and helping
him afterwards with seed wheat and railway
rebates, requires to be killed dead. What the
workless citizen requires is immediate wages—fair
wages in return for fair work in a self-supporting
industry—and then if, with his savings, he should,
in after years, get on the land himself at his own
expense, it is his own business. The only chance
for him to get these wages lies in the establish-
ment of manufacturing industries, and if manufac-
tures had adequate Protection, and received even
a tenth of the amount in bonuses that has been
spent on the agriculturist they would almost cer-
tainly be extensive enough to-day to absorb all
the present unemployed many dozen times over.
This, of course, is violent heresy against the Free-
trade Joss, but that can’t be helped. If Free-
traders have anything to propose which will
promptly supply much employment on real
Freetrade principles—not on the semi-Pro-
tectionist principles which they practise and
falsely describe as Freetrade—the country will be
glad to hear it. But all vague remarks about
“ putting the unemployed on the land ” are barred
out of the controversy. The Tory party has so
completely failed to put the unemployed on the
land that that political war-whoop is altogether
outside the case.
N.S.W. LOCAL GOVERNMENT.
The first suggestion that New South Wales
should, like other civilised countries, have a
system of local government stretches back into the
remote mists of antiquity. Other countries, and
other States of the Commonwealth, put into force,
as a matter of course, schemes for the municipal
control of the petty details of collective action,
but N.S.W. has neglected, for an almost incredible
time that obvious duty. ISib main reason pro-
bably was that there was always a ‘ ‘ fiscal issue
in N.S.W. to absorb the time of Parliament;
other States took naturally to more or less rigid
Protection and thus ended the fiscal controversy,
for a State which has had Protection for any
length of time is, as a rule, satisfied that
that policy is right and does not bother
further. N.S.W. had another doubtful blessing
in Henry Parkes’ great love for climbing on a
great constitutional eminence, and there posing
for the admiration of posterity. There were many
high qualities in Parkes (they were never more
apparent than after his death, when his place was
taken by Beid), but he had a failing for talking
grandiloquently of great constitutional issues and
neglecting the routine business of the country to
do so. With Parkes, government was a matter of
constant ceremonials and no washing-up. So
N.S.W. went without a Local Government Act
until the evils of a centralised system of
government grew strong with vested interests,
and to talk of passing such a measure came
to be looked upon as a sort of political joke.
Parkes talked of a Bill. Dibbs directed corn-
minatory thunders against its opponents. Beid
actually brought in a Bill, and dropped it because
Parliament insisted on manhood and not wealth
being in some degree the basis of the franchise.
Now B. B. Wise has come forward with a pro-
posal showing genuine statesmanship, comprehen-
sive and practicable, and so designed as to facili-
tate its passage through Parliament. In that last
respect, perhaps, the scheme is most clever. Par-
liament knows that Local Government is wanted,
has known it for generations, but has done
nothing because it is to the interests of the
“ rpads and bridges” member, who after all is
the dominating power, to keep things as they are.
Wise proposes to put on Parliament the whip of
popular pressure, applied directly in favor of a
defined Local Government system. It is, in
effect, the same method that succeeded in getting
reduction of members through. Parliament is to
be partly coerced, partly coaxed into doing its
duty.
* * * *
Summarised, the chief provisions of the Local
Government scheme, which Mr. Wise puts
forward on behalf of the See Cabinet, are: —
Power is given to convene a popular representative
body, elected by the localities interested, under the Par-
liainentary franchise, to draw up a constitution under the
Act for a “ Greater Sydney ”; this constitution, if approved
by a referendum of the ratepayers interested, comes into
force. Practically the same method of consolidation is
available for other areas overcrowded with mayors.
A popular conference representative of the municipal
councils, progress associations, and stock and pasture
boards of the area outside “Greater Sydney” is to be
summoned to discuss in detail a Local Government Bill
put before them, and to make suggestions in regard to
amendment, addition, or rejection of details.
Local Government as to be extended to coverall the
State. Where the population is thick municipalities will
be created ; where the population is thin shires are to be
formed, and these shires will take over for their own
benefit the collection of the present State tax on unim-
proved land values, and they will have the power to tax
Crown lands. In the far Western district, where popula-
tion is so thin that it is not visible to the naked eye, the
municipal authority is to be the already constituted
Western Lands Board, which will be subsidised to the
extent of the average amount which has been devoted by
the Treasury to local works in the district during the past
few years. .... , ~ .
The basis of the municipal franchise is to be adult suf-
frage. The basis of municipal rating must be on the
unimproved value of the land in shires ; in municipalities
it may be either on that or the improved value. The pre-
sent range of municipal taxation is increased, as is the
scope of municipal power.
These proposals seem to meet all the requirements
of the moment. They are, of course, not perfect;
nothing human is. But they approach the many
difficult problems of municipal rule with courage
and with something of originality in the
expedients to overcome serious obstacles. The
plan for achieving a Greater Sydney is prac-
tically that outlined in The Bulletin some years
ago, and frequently advocated since. It goes over
the heads of the suburban aldermen, whose incli-
nations are to hold to the little Bumble dignity
which they now possess, and who see for them-
selves an unhappy despatch in any scheme for con-
solidating the government of the metropolitan
area. Their objections to shed off their petty
honors would block for ever a Greater Sydney, if
the matter were left in their hands. But Mr. Wise
proposes to take it out of their hands. In dealing
with the extension of local government to the
rural areas, the roads-and-bridges member is of
the same class of obstacle as the suburban aider-
men is to the metropolitan municipal consolida-
tion ; lie sees in such reform a loss of his own
importance —even a loss of his post in Parlia-
ment. It is, unfortunately, not quite possible
to treat him in the same summary fashion
as the suburban alderman, but Wise’s popular
Convention to discuss the Bill will, undoubtedly,
rouse such a general interest in the subject as to
coerce the “good local member” into support.
When a Bill has been discussed and so moulded as
to be approved by the local governing bodies of
the State, he would be a bold politician who
would oppose or neglect it. The idea of the
Convention, in short, makes a “live issue” of
Local Government; and that is really the most
pressing need. » * *
The details of the proposed measure are whole-
somely radical in spirit. In the City of Sydney
a democratic municipal franchise has proved of
great reform value. Before the plague outbreak
the metropolitan franchise was practically restricted
to the well-to-do. The result was a corrupt, inept
council. With the widened suffrage legalised by the
Lyne Government, reform was prompt. This is
a practical instance to support the argument
for a democratic municipal franchise which
theoretically has a quite unassailable position.
The larger affairs of state are entrusted to the
decision of adult suffrage; it is absurd to argue
for a restricted franchise in electing men to deal
with the smaller affairs. Those who are wise
enough to speak as to the State’s tariff, its
relations abroad, its education system and its law
administration are certainly wise enough to vote
on its roads and drains. As to other points : the
power of greater taxation is one which existing
municipalities have long sought and which will
stimulate municipal progress; the unimproved
land value as the basis of taxation is not made
compulsory in all local government areas (though
that would without a doubt have been the best),
but it is legalised everywhere and will probably, if
the Bill becomes law, be adopted by most municipal
bodies from choice. The “ roads and bridges mem-
ber ” is, under the Bill, finally swept away. Only
one area—in the Far West-will get anything
directly from the State Treasury, and that will be a
fixed subsidy which no local member’s pleadings
can affect one way or the other. There is only one
thing which the Bill neglects—the provision of
some convenient machinery by which a governing
body can be superseded in case of its persistent
neglect of duty, but, with the widened franchise,
that is, perhaps, not necessary. Under the old
Conservative franchise Sydney municipality had
to be once put in commission, and the »->me step
was threatened a second time. Since the Demo
cratic suffrage was granted that expedient has
never been suggested. If the British Act were
copied in its financial provisions—-members of a
local council are, under that Act, personally liable
if an auditor reports that the rates imposed are in-
sufficient to keep the council solvent probably
all that is necessary in the way of a suzerain
supervision of the local governing bodies would be
effected.
* * * *
Economy is, of course, the main aim of the
extension of local government —the ending of the
absurd system by which the Treasury in Sydney
finds the money for the culvert at the back of
Bourke, the gold- losing its volume rapidly as it
trickles slowly through many departmental
offices. With a system of local control and
construction of local works all expensive cir-
cumlocution will end; the stitch in time which
saves nine can be promptly applied; and in
the droughty areas the best time can be chosen for
the carrying out of repairs—a most important
point, the price of a job in the dry summer being
sometimes ten times that of the same job in the
spring when rain has fallen. Almost any work-
able system of general local government would
have been acceptable. Since the Bill which Mr.
Wise fathers is throughout democratic and pro-
gressive, The Bulletin hopes to see the author’s
‘ ‘ popular Convention ” plan succeed in making
the measure one of the vital issues of the next
campaign.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Mistake That Wasn’t Made.
Governor-General Northcote went up one in
the estimation of the Australian people when he
“ sent for ” Watson to form a Ministry. True he
only did the right tning—the obviously right thing.
But he might have made a big mistake ; and didn t,
and Australia has a right to be grateful to a
Governor who has the chance of making a mistake
and doesn’t seize it. There is no doubt that
very strong social pressure was brought to bear
upon the Governor-General, urging him to make
an effort to save Toorak and Darling Point from
the horror of a Democratic Ministry by sending for
Reid, who, during the crisis, haunted Parliament
House with an air of great conciliation towards
Deakin, and of much dog (dry) and hauteur
towards the Labor party. The Governor refused
to be frightened by the visions conjured up of the
country thrown on its beam ends, Colhns-street
given up to howling anarchists, and Sydney sacked
by a horde of Labor leaders. He sent for Watson’
without, as he was pitifully urged to do, asking
the advice of local Chief Justice Madden, or even
of Thomas Bent, and thus showed a. capacity
for avoiding a mistake which promises some-
thing for the future. Perhaps, though.
Governors-General receive in their instructions
a- memo, concerning a certain G. Reid who wm
expect to be “ sent for” on all sorts of impossible
occasions. It will be recalled that when Governor-
General Hopetoun sent for Mr. Bill Lyne ana
that gentleman failed to form a ministry, yes-1'0
Reid promptly pushed forward and wished to
know whether it was not his turn. Lyne haa
failed to get together a Cabinet because he was too
parochial a politician ; and Reid construed that
into a reason why he—the most parochial ot an
politicians and the most distrusted— should pe
called to office. His claim to recognition on tm>
second occasion was just as impudent and just as
unsuccessful.
How the Labor Party has Saved the Banks.
A few days ago, when the formation of the
Watson Ministry became a near probability.
Sydney Telegraph went round gathering opinion-'-
in carefully selected quarters, as to the terriD
results that were likely to ensue. This was one 1
the opinions that it garnered in
Once this class legislation ceases there will be an era o
prosperity. There are millions of money ready to
poured in here to start enterprises as soon asourpou .
are placed on a sound basis, but at present the stream
investment is flowing towards Canada and South Air
Capitalists have unbounded confidence in the resources
Australia, hut fear the unjust domination of the
party. ,.
This item sets The Bulletin thinking of thedin;
drunk past. There was a time more than a W
years ago when millions of money were pouring
as above described. Bank managers who
mostly dead now were then in their glory.
Mene, Mene.
Cabled that, excepting- for a few minor details, negotia-
tions between the Foreign and Colonial Offices and the
Chinese Minister in London with reference to the employ-
ment of Chinese labor on the Band, are complete.
Little for Race or Color
The dear old Empire cares,
Little for Kith or Kindred —
Who are not millionaires.
Davies, and Beit, and Cohen,
They are her bosom friends;
They loaf for her like heroes—
And now she makes amends.
Ah Fat, and not Bill Adams,
Won Waterloo, we know ;
The French at sea were conquered
By Nelson, Chow and Co.
When next she is in danger
On whom will Britain call ?
On poor old Tommy Atkins,
Or Chang, of the Transvaal ?
Over the hills of darkness,
Doing the will of God,
The Fates walk swiftly, surely,
With shoes of Silence shod.
The Empire staggers cnward
Half-dazed, or unaware
Of all the signs and tokens,
And warnings in the air.
A pit is digged to hold her,
A snare to catch her feet
Is set —yet she goes forward
Drunk with her own conceit.
Some day when at her table
Her citizens sit down —
The White Man at the bottom.
And at the top the Brown,
Her heart will die within her
When once —and once for all—
She sees, in letters lurid,
The Writing on the Wall.
CREEVE ROE.


, ere the tab they coMrolW.
were accumulating enormously , theon y for
was about how to le ag to bring
they had to be lent the depositors’ in-
in interest, and enable with whose
cerest to be paid- „ N was somewhat
inner workings The Bullei* a t times to
acquainted, used to write frant J f d iem at
its branch managers-perhaps another
a time—saying You wwst din „ to the
yin 000 or £50,000 or £60,000, accoruu g ~
c|Sy of the town for absorbing Then
a distracted branch ccui.c’Ci' wavg to seize
™* into the highways «and
of r rity. He
„„M lay violent tads » some sp»nMte r
acquaintance and say . -kooK [ , ,’,/x y,,, a)lc .
buy that property of Blank
tioned; we’ll find the money. In the end
generally found someone who wou Z ‘ ,
anything if the bank found the money. In those
times a property which, but for , b
millions of English money, would ta ye bee
fairly worth £3OOO, and which i worth
about £4OOO or £6OOO now because we
haven’t yet recovered from the influx of money,
would realise £40,000, the price being run
up, in some cases, by rival bidders, for ‘
•/bom the money was being found by som '
t .-acted bank manager under orders to lend out
another £60,000 immediately. The interest on
those loans was hardly ever paid ; it just accumu-
i ited, and was treated as an asset, and included
in the profits. But the English depositor had to
be paid his interest in cash, and when the interest
going out was cash, and the interest alleged to <
coming in was only an entry in a book, the end was
unutterable crash. Those were the days when one
politician had 14 overdrafts, and when a big bank,
in its dire anxiety to “ lend out another £oO,UUU,
granted overdrafts to individual miners without
even inspecting their claims. The applicant used to
bring in a bit of rich quartz, allegedly from his shaft,
as evidence that the security was good enough.
Generally he spat on the specimen to show the
gold better, and if the manager was a careful man
lie also spat on the specimen; though some
managers were so reckless that they didn t spit on
anything. In those days the manager used to
grant himself an overdraft almost as readily as he
granted it to anybody else. There was one bank
(now defunct) which granted the writer an over-
draft when he had just passed his 21st year—so
great was its anxiety to get the millions that were
pouring in from England lent out. Wnter had a
yearning to buy 500 shares in the Johnson and
W ebster mine (now vanished like the bank) at
Bendigo, and the bank put up the whole purchase
money with only the Johnson and Webster
shares and the writer’s open countenance
as security. Those were drunk and fearsome
days when millions of money were being
poured in, and the smash of 1893 was the
natural result. And now we are told that
if it wasn’t for Labor legislation we might have
that ghastly horror over again at any time.
1 leaven bless Labor legislation ! During the years
since Labor legislation became a serious institution
no bank has burst, there has been no financial drunk,
no politician is known to have got 14 overdrafts,
and all the banks which were nearly dead ten
years ago have made solid progress towards re-
covery, save one, which was too dead and was
located in a State where there was then no Labor
legislation. The Labor party didn’t think of
taking full credit for all this till the Telegraph s
hank manager explained that it was that party
only which stood between Australia and a repe-
tition of the old razzle.
♦
The Navigation Bill.
The Watson Ministry will, it is certain, alto-
gether re-draft the Navigation Bill. As it stands,
that measure provides a very small instalment of
the reform which is needed. An Act following
pretty closely on the lines of the American Ship-
ping Act—securing for Australian citizens the
building, the repairing, and the manning of the
ships employed on the Australian coast —is the
logical development of a Labor and Protec-
tion policy. Provisions that, for the Aus-
tralian coastal trade, Australian labor conditions
must prevail are well enough in their way, but do
not meet the full requirements of the country,
which are (1) the provision of work for the Aus-
tralian people; (2) the formation of a basis of
Australian naval defence. Found a ship-building
industry in the Commonwealth and vest the sea-
carrying of the Commonwealth in the hands of
Australian shipowners employing Australian sea-
men, and the benefits of economic and naval
defence are attained together. The only material
obstacle in the way of such a policy is provided
by the Imperial connection. Some Australian
public men, so accustomed are they to think
that the presence of British steamers in
these waters is necessary to the very life of Aus-
tralia, might baulk at the prospect of shutting out
hv a system of Protection the British steamer.
They are ready to shut out the British jam, and
the British shirt, even the British steel rail, but
not the British ocean “ tramp ” or mail-boat from
competition with Australian industry. The Bul-
letin fails to see any essential difference between
protecting the Australian hoot-manufacturer
against cheap British competition and the Aus-
tralian ship-builder and sailor against under-
cutting on the part of the iron tank which
fiies the British flag, but is manned mostly
by Olaf when not by Ah Sing or Butta
Jam. If, to encourage its own industries,
Australia is willing to shut out the British biscuit,
there is no reason why, with the same laudable
object, it should not shut out the British hulk.
But prejudices are prejudices, and if the Aus-
tralian public mind is not yet educated up to the
pitch of high Protection for the shipping industry,
the Watson Ministry can be guided to a handy
half-way house by the fact that the British Govern-
ment is just now contemplating a Shipping Pro-
tection Act of its own, and doubtless a certain
measure of reciprocity could be arranged—some
plan by which the British ship might still fly its
flag in these waters, provided Olaf was paid the
Australian rate of wages and Ram Choy was
utterly barred. The Navigation Act of the Wat-
son Ministry should certainly make a beginning
in the direction of founding an Australian ship-
building industry—not merely an industry for the
construction of ferry-boats and sucli-like small
items —and something more than a beginning in
s3curingan Australian rate of wages and white
labor for all coastal shipping.
♦
A Book-Fiend Premier’s Revolt.
Jenkins, South Australia’s Yankee hook-fiend
Premier, probably aching for the advertisement
which is the drummer’s breath of life, has deli-
berately thrown himself into conflict with the
Australian Government. Nine or ten Chinese
arrived at Port Darwin and wanted to get into
Australia by that back door on old State certifi-
cates. Minister Deakin first and Hughes after-
wards instructed the Customs officer at Port
Darwin to deal with the matter m the manner
laid down—viz., to admit the Chinese on those
certificates provided they had vested interests m
the country. They had none ; so they were
blocked. Then the Book-Fiend State Premier
instructed Mr. Dashwood, the Resident of the
N.T., to take State police out and land the
Chinese—in other words, to defy the Customs
officers, who in this matter represented Australia.
How far anybody, State Premier or private person,
is to be allowed to use force to defeat the law
of Australia, as interpreted by the constituted
authority, remains now to be seen. To make a
forcible landing upon Australian territory might
be called by a very awkward name, and met by
very awkward punishment. The drummer-Premier
presumably out aftei cheap advertisement, should
be treated firmly, even rigorously. The first little
revolt against the Federal power may be the
precursor of many more if it is not effectively
suppressed.
M.L. Laborites Go Wrong.
The annual Labor Conference of Maoriland has
by 16 votes to 3 decided that there ought to be an
Independent Labor party “ (a) to secure such
legislation as will be for the benefit of the people
and the State as a whole, and (b) to conserve and
protect the rights already secured to the people.
The mover pointed to the example of Great
Britain, where “ the Independent Labor party
fused to be allied with either of the great political
parties.” He forgot to mention, and. apparently
didn’t take into account, that in Great Britain the
Labor party hasn’t any such party as the one
founded by Ballance and carried on by Seddon
to be allied with. It is all very well to
take to a raft when the only other alter-
natives are one boat that is desperately leaky
and another that has no bottom; but the same
rule doesn’t hold when there is room and a wel-
come in a boat which isn’t leaky and is well-found.
The Maorilanders point to Australia as well. They
say that the Australian Laborites have formed
themselves into third parties. But the whole ques-
tion is : Which has fared best—Maoriland, which
hasn’t had a third party, or Australia, which has ?
Usually Maoriland doesn’t profess to be m much
doubt about that, nor is Australia. Even with its
third parties, Australia has lagged years be-
hind Maoriland; and when those parties have
achieved anything it has almost always been
on the plea that Maoriland has had the same
reform for some time and has prospered under it.
Than this there could be no better and stronger
proof that, from the Labor and democratic point
of view, the Maoriland system has been the best.
The mover of the Maoriland Labor Conference
resolution gave his whole case away again when he
said that “Mr. Massey (leader of the Opposition)
is impossible from a Labor point of view. His
views on the Land question are sufficient to con-
demn him in the eyes of the workers.” If the
Opposition is impossible, then the Laborites, if
they form an independent party, will be depen-
dent upon the Government as they are now.
What, however, they will probably do is to
weaken the Government sufficiently to allow the
Opposition to get in—this Opposition which is led
by the impossible Massey— the man whose “views
on the Land question are sufficient to condemn him
in the eyes of the workers.” The only reason the
Australian workers ever had for forming them-
selves into a third party was that both mam
parties were equally “impossible.” They there-
fore held that the only plan was to play one off
against the other. Obviously, however, the
whole plan would break down if one party
was “impossible” and the other wasn’t.
If the third party doesn’t feel just as
free to pull with one main party as _ with
the other, it isn’t a third party at all—it is simply
a tail of the main party to which it is attached.
If it were part of the dog it would have some
say in deciding the dog’s policy ; being merely the
tail, it has none. The Maoriland Laborite has
been part of the dog all along, and has done
splendidly. He hasn’t had the honor and glory
of being an Independent joint or two, but honor
and glory after all don’t count much alongside
good bones with plenty of meat on them, and the
Maorilanders have had far more of them than the
Australians have had. The whole trend of the
movement in Australia is, in fact, towards the
Maoriland position of the past 10 years. The
third party game is played out, and
everywhere it is being abandoned. i. hough,
not openly abandoned in Queensland, it is
indefinitely hung up —and the result is the first
spell of honest government the State has had for
many years. In S. Australia it was also hung
up for vears, when Batchelor, now Federal
Home Minister, was in the Holder Ministry,
and the State made then its most marked Demo-
cratic progress. Even in Australian politics the
line between Labor and Liberalism has been
already smudged out; and the moment it is drawn
again that moment Premier Watson’s Govern-
ment will go. What, then, the Maoriland Labor-
ites propose is to deliberately take up an attitude
which the Australian Laborites would never have
adopted if they had not been forced into it, and
which they are forsaking at the first opportunity
an attitude which political despair can alone
justify ; and Maoriland is about the last country
on earth where the workers ought to sound that
note.
The Partial Awakening of England.
Even now Britain, despite its dismally Conserva-
tive Government, is being driven by necessity to
adopt, and justify, a great part of the Australian
Democratic Government’s programme. A big
loan has just been floated for the repurchase, in
Ireland, of large estates for sale, with a view to
closer settlement, for small farmer-proprietors.
The second reading of a Bill to shut out undesirable
aliens has passed the Commons by a majority of 124,
and a Navigation Bill, not unlike that proposed
by the Watson Government, is in prospeot. I he
British Aliens Restriction Bill was naturally the
subject of much lamentation by the fag end of the
old smug Liberal party, but for once its platitudes
fell flat The party claimed that it was the ‘ noblest
tradition ” of the Cold Country that its doors were
wide open to the scum of all nations, and that
no person could be so ignorant, so criminal,
so dirty, so objectionable, so ready to sleep
14 in a room, and so willing to work for a pittance
which makes it impossible for the British work-
man to compete with him (unless he also gets down
to the wild-beast level at which men sleep 14 in a
room) that Britain wouldn’t gladly take him m.
But the theory that it is Britain s noblest tracii-
tion to be the ash-heap of the nations and to con-
taminate itself with all the world’s refuse isnt so
strong as it was. A certain class still talks the
old comfortable, oily drivel from force of habit
and vicarious philanthropy. But it is exclusively
the class which is so affluent that it doesn t need
to live alongside the people whose advent repre-
sents the “noblest traditions’’—which doesn t
suffer from their dirt and their vermin, which
doesn’t lose its job at 15s. a week because the
“ noblest tradition ” people are willing to take it
at 7s. fid. And the brute selfishness of this class,
which is so willing to sacrifice the millions of its
poorer fellow-countrymen in order that it may
puff out its white vest, and drip with the oil of
self-righteousness, and shine with the grease of
cheap self-approval, doesn’t meet with the applause
it once did.
High Wages and a Low Tariff,
Coghlan’s figures, just issued, show, when read
with previous figures, that the movement in regard
to the factories of N.S. Wales during the past five
years has been as follows ■
Hands Employed.
A
Males. Females. Wages Paid.
1899 .. 47,063 8,583
1900 .. 50,516 10,263 £4,974,216
1901 .. 64,556 11,674 4,943,079
1902 .. 54,326 11,943 5,082,740
1903 .. 52,463 13,212 4,842,702
This isn’t by any means as satisfactory as it might
and should be. It is true that there was a drought
during part of last year, and that Cohen stopped
the flow of loan money to some extent. Yet the
people continued to spend money, a,nd instead of
spending it in the State, where it was badly
needed, they bought foreign goods made by
foreign workmen; while local production re-
mained about stationary, imports actually in-
creased. Drought and the stoppage of loan works
were no excuse for reduced factory employment.
On the contrary, if employment on farms and
public works was scarcer, there was more need to
provide it in factories ; to hire the foreigner more
than usual when our own workman was more idle
than usual was a greater national crime and a worse
sin against commonsense than usual. Yet this is
actually what happened; at the port of Sydney
alone foreign merchandise to the declared value
of £17,898,016 was imported during 1903. lhe
biggest question which is awaiting the Austral i an
Laborite’s answer is: Why was that £17,898,016
spent outside Australia while there were men here
who wanted to earn it ? 44 Pro Bono Publico and
his brother who writes the daily paper leaders,
give one answer : they say that the Arbitration
Act and the rest of the industrial legislation are
killing industry in N.S. Wales. And, to some
extent, they are right. They have hit upon half
the truth, anyway. If the Arbitration Act and
the other labor laws establish an eight-hour
dav and reasonably—only reasonably—high
wages in N.S. Wales and don’t also establish
the same things in the foreign factory, then
N.S. Wales can’t get the work to do—unless
the foreign factory’s goods are shut out by a
sufficiently high Protective tariff. If the -A- 11 ®"
tralian workman is to enjoy short hours and
reasonably high wages, he can only do it by
shutting out the goods of the man who works long
hours for unreasonably low wages. It is no
earthly use stopping the man who runs a factory
at itedfern from working his hands 13 hours a day
if we throw our markets open to the man who
runs a factory in Japan or Italy or somewhere else
and works his hands 14 hours a day. lhe sweater
in Italy or Japan vrill run the man who pays
decent wages for fair hours off the market just as
surely as would the sweater in the next parish ,
and to tell the local manufacturer that he
must pay high wages or none at all,
while the cheap foreign-made goods are
admitted on a low tariff, is to tell the local manu-
facturer that he must shut up. If we simply shut
up the Itedfern sweater we make it so much the
easier for the foreign sweater; and when he has
killed the factory where we insisted that fair con-
ditions should rule, he puts up the prices until we
pay more than we could make the goods for our-
selves —lowering them again with a thud for j ust
long enough to kill any new local industry which
threatens to assert itself. So we get neither the
work to do nor cheap goods; all that we get is a
fat importer. When the factory figures show that
the employment of males is not increasing, while
imports of foreign goods continue to be enormous, it
is certain that the tariff hasn’t gone up to corres-
pond with the rise of wages. “ -Pro Bono Bubiico
says that wages are too high and hours too short.
The Australian Laborite, On the other hand, to a
great extent shirks the question. He “sinks the
fiscal issue.” He insists upon good wages and fair
hours but he doesn’t make them possible. He pro-
hibits low cost of production, but permits the com-
petition of cheap men over whom he has no control.
If he wants to get for his own people high wages, and
work to get them with, he must stop that competi-
tion ; and high Protection is the only way to do it.
The Australian can’t have high wages and a low
tariff • he can’t have short hours and an open
market. And when he is losing his trade it is
clear that he must do something: he must either
reduce wages and increase hours, or increase the
protective duties. Which is he going to do ? Is he
going to say that we have gone too far with m-
dustrial legislation or not far enough with 1 ro-
tection ? He must say one or the other.
• ♦
The High Court.
Somewhat to the surprise of the public, Chief-
,T ustice Griffith has taken an early occasion to
declare, on behalf of the High Court, that its aim
is to become the final Bench of appeal for Aus-
tralia ; and that it will not countenance any refer-
ence of its decisions to the British Privy Council.
That Justices Barton and O’Connor were of that
mind has long been known ; but it was thought
that Chief-Justice Griffith was inclined to favor
the use of the Privy Council as a final court by
Australian litigants. Now, happily, that is
shown to be not the case. Nothing could
be more explicit than the declaration of the Chief
Justice in refusing a stay of proceedings in the
case M'Laughlin v. the Daily Telegraph Cos. :
They (the Bench) would be unworthy of their position
if they were to assume or suggest that in any case it
would be proper to appeal from a decision which the law
had made final and conclusive.
The effect of that declaration will be to do away
with the Privy Council appeal from the decisions
of the High Court in most cases. Already,
by the Constitution Act, questions involving
the interpretation of the Constitution are
finally settled by the High Court; now, m
those private suits in which the issue is
one of costs or damages, it will be useless in most
cases to appeal from the High Court, since it will
not grant leave for such appeal, and will conse-
quently not grant a stay of proceedings until such
appeal is settled. The litigant who has to pay
over damages and costs to-day is hardly likely to
strive to upset the decision mulcting him, before a
court which probably will not decide for about
two years. In that space of time the chances of
recovering what he lias paid out, in the case of a
reversal of the verdict, would, in many instances,
have vanished, and an appeal would therefore be
very much on the lines of “ Heads you win, tails
I lose.” The investment of the Australian High
Court with absolute and unappealable jurisdiction
was, in the first instance, sought by the Constitu-
tion-makers of the Commonwealth and refused by
the British Parliament. Now the decision of the
High Court does much to do away with the effects
of the refusal and to establish an Australian Court
as the final tribunal for the Australian people. It
is a big step forward and does much to dispel the
fear that Chief-Justice Griffith would use his
great abilities to thwart rather than to aid the
national aspirations of the Commonwealth.
# —. ; —
Supporting George Reid’s shameless Yes-No,
by voting, not as he voted but as he told them to
vote, and against their honest convictions, during
crisis week in the Federal Parliament, were these :
Conroy, Lonsdale, Lee, Johnson, and probably
Willis. (Willis hasn’t spoken on the question,
and is so colorless a person that it is not easy to
say how he thinks.) These members did not
believe in the extension of the Industrial Arbi-
tration Act to State servants, but they voted for it
to “ down the Government ” at the prompting of
Reid. That shameless politician allowed himself
the luxury of voting as he had spoken and as he
honestly believed, but was only able to enjoy it
because he had a sufficient number of followers
poor-spirited enough to commit an outrage on
Parliamentary decency which he baulked at. lo
be classed with them as being just as unprincipled,
but not quite so impudent, is Bruce Smith, who
did not vote at all—though he was hostile to the
amendment. Reid is quite a proud man these
days; he has shown that there are other members
in the Federal Parliament who can sink to the
depths of political profligacy with him.
o
Probably Mr. Jenkins, S. A. ’s book-fiend Premier,
hopes to divert attention from his own mal-
administration by flouting the Federal authority.
So hopelessly incompetent has his own btate
administration been, in so shocking a muddle has
he got his own finances, that, to save his poli-
tical skin, he is willing to do almost anything.
For months past he has been busy blaming the h fe-
deration for the consequences of his Ministry sown
incapacity ; now, to further prejudice the I edera-
tion in his State’s eyes, he throws at it the mud ot
defiance. The Bulletin believes that b. Aus-
tralia will not let its book-fiend Premier thus dis-
tract its attention from his own misbehavior. It is
a question of maintaining the dignity of the Com-
monwealth and upholding its _ laws _on the one
side, and on the other of maintaining in othce
a hopelessly incapable (as a politician) Yankee
canvasser; and The Bulletin believes that b.
Australia will go solidly for upholding the dignity
and the laws of Australia. _ But whether S. Aus-
tralia comes to that conclusion or not, Australia s
course is clear. Its law is not to be flouted by this
cheap misfit in the way of State Premiers.
A significant looking paragraph in Melbourne
Age gives some particulars re the ancient Jtnglish
experiment of taxing bachelors above the age ot
25. The tax ranged from £l2 10s. on dukes to a
mere shilling per head on the common or garden
kind of unmarried man. _ With women beginning
to get the State franchise the time seems to be
nearly ripe for bachelor taxation throughout
Australasia. Whenitcomesit shouldbea graduated
tax, making proper allowance for the dutiful
person who contributes something more than
ordinary board-money to the support of parents oi
relatives, but not tempering the impost to the fat
merino who merely runs a shady villa for a soiled
Phyllis. Joking apart, the State is at natural
enmity with the luxurious club bachelor. As
a rule he is a specially selfish and vainglorious
person avoiding matrimony from the dread of
lessening his self importance, and growing every
year fatter and stronger in Toryism through his
lack of sympathy with the struggling classes of
all grades. A good democratic bachelor in a posi-
tion to support a wife is an impossibility. To be
a true democrat is to take a kindly interest m
one’s fellow creatures, and to be any sort of
humanitarian is to fall a victim to the first attrac-
tive girl who presents the illusions of matrimony
in a forcible manner. These remarks apply to the
cautious young farmer with a nice bit o’ land but
no nice bit o’ female to comb his hair for him, end
to the simpering suburban bachelor who affects to
complain that he '‘can’t get anybody to have
him.” Fact is, an eligible party in trousers must
be uncommonly cold and crafty to escape every-
body anxious to have him. The best policy for
the Government is to tax the elusive bachelor till
somebody has him.
A man who was there relates the sad, confused
tale of the new democratic journalism in Mel-
bourne : ‘
Three distinct coteries have been maturing" plans find
failing to raise money. The promoters never doubted
that first-class literary ability would be forthcoming—in
fact, they took this for granted. The projectors of the
National Independent, at the head of whom is Senator
Trenwith, made a vigorous start at a public meeting last
year. Some fine speeches were made by Trenwith,.
Higgins and Ronald, and by Hamilton, M.L.A. Fully
1200 democrats crowded the Melbourne Temperance Hall,,
and now after five months of hard work the provisional
directors bring up a most dismal report to the
effect that the enthusiasm hasn't materialised..
Altogether 1925 £1 shares have been taken up, the
largest lot going to the brothers Harriton, of Walhalla,
who took 100. The amount of £384 has been received, ot
which nearly £l3B has gone in expenses, and the company
has a miserable £246 12s. 6d. to its credit. The promoters
now declare that this failure to establish the new paper
with a capital of £IOO,OOO and all other essentials lies at
the door of the Trades Hall people, with whom Trenwith
had broken by refusing to sign the Labor Platform before
the Federal elections. They not only abstained from
giving support to the National Independent scheme,
but started a movement to bring out a ne\v
paper, to be called Progress. Its financial backbone
was to consist of £15,000 worth of debentures, to be taken
up by the trades societies. This project has also hung
fire. Trenwith is strong enough to spoil the game of the
“ Twelve Apostles ” of the Trades Hall, and he is alleged
to be doing it. While these people were blocking each
other a bold dash w 7 as made by a number of unemployed
printers, who formed themselves into a co-operative
society and brought out a four pp. paper the
People’s Daily. After a gallant struggle with one
reporter and an amateur editor M‘Leod, a Maori-
land barrister, who was defeated by a rarrow
majority at the last Maoriland general elections—
the printing plant was carried off by a creditor. The'
brave co-operators are, however, still keeping the flag
flying, though the paper is reduced in size aJidwithout
any definite editor, M‘Leod having accepted a position on.
a weekly paper. In these straits it was proposed to amal-
gamate with the two other journalistic projects! Dele-
gates from the two papers that are not yet born and the
paper that is partially dead held numerous meetings, with
the result that Progress and The Independent are com-
bining, and the new paper is to be called National,
Progress. The People’s Daily has been squeezed out
from the scheme, and is left either to perish or to boom
with the assistance of Wren, the tote man, who has
promised to put money into the venture and supply a,
good plant. Wren has plenty of money, and his ambi-
tion runs in the direction of the Legislative Council, for
which he intends to be a candidate at the general
elections. Meanwhile the speediest possible steps
are to be taken to bring out National Progress. The
£IOO,OOO is to be subscribed by the Trades Unions,
and the promoters rely for literary talent principally
on Grattan Grey, the Maorilander, whose anti-gore
sentiments cost him a Government billet. If Wren
puts enough money into the People’s Daily, it is quite
possible, however, that it will overwhelm National
Progress ; but whether illicit tote money is a healthy
basis for a purely democratic organ to be built on may be
questioned,


The Leading Life Insurance Company of the World,
The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York*
RICHARD A. McCURDY, Pkesident.
Statement for the Year ending December 31st, 1903
Assets .. exceed £82,509,000
Contingent Guarantee Fund and
Divisible Surplus
Income, 1903
Payments to Policy Holders, 1903
Insurance and Annuities in Force
£12,729,000
£15,901,000
£6,798,000
£297,264,000
During the Year 1903 the New Business written by The Mutual Life of New York amounted
to £43,691,000, showing an increase of £1,659,000 over the previous year.
Head Office 'for Australasia:
COMPANY’S BUILDING, MARTIN PLACE AND PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD RENNIE, General Manager,
Branches at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart and Perth.
THE
Pianola
Makes an Expert
Pianist of you at
once.
Would you not
gladly pay £6O
for this?
N
Write for our Illustrated Booklet, mailed Free on application. Ask for Catalog 8.,
explaining what can be done with the Pianola.
All Records supplied from our immense Circulating Libraries.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
Sole Agents for
Australasia,
323 George St., SYDNEY ; 185-7 Collins St., MELBOURNE; & at Finney, Isles & Co., BRISBANE.
SUNDRY SHOWS-
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Light that Failed.”
Theatre Royal.. ...... “ Great Millionaire.”
Criterion :........ “ Little Lord Fauntleroy.”
Palace “ Little Red Riding’ Hood.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Queen’s Hall Pierrot Entertainers
Bklmore Park ~.. Fitzgerald Bros’. Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Marriage of Kitty.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Sign of the Cross.”
Theatre Royal “ Her Second Time on Earth.”
< >pkka House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Bijou Annette Kellermann (Saturday
Night).
Athenaeum Hael Scottish Entertainers.
• “V —-
As more pieces of sticking-plaster are
added to the Jap wrestlers at Fitzgerald’s Circus
the performance grows more interesting. When
there’s a fight ora “ rastle ” on, the average man
must back something; but when the two in tlie
ring are so much alike that as soon as they change
places you can’t pick out your man and don’t know
whether you’ve won or lost, you look upon the
show with a certain amount of weariness. The
sticking-plaster helps out of this difficulty; and
you can now take sides with the man who has
half-a -square foot of it on his shoulder, or the other
one who has a. strip of it round his leg, and
be happy. The Gascoignes have been added to
the Fitz. show since last week —two youngish
men, who do the handcuff and chain business
introduced to these parts by the Cirnocs, but put
numerous frills upon the performance to add to
the mystery of it. One night during the week
the Gascoigne who does the handcuff part of the
entertainment was put into a pair of bracelets,
which were said to be of regulation pattern, but
weren’t. He went into the cabinet, undid one,
but presently came out declaring that tlie other
was a fake, which no ordinary key would open—
which is pretty good proof that he uses keys,
though Ahere he gets them from, and where he
puts them after he has used them, or how he gets
at them to use them at all, the Gascoignes only
know, and they aren’t likely to tell. Anyway,
that evening this Gascoigne had to finish his turn
with the rebellious jewellery still clasping his
wrist.
* * *- #
A capital bit of characterisation in ‘ ‘ The
Light that Failed,” now in its second week at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney), is given by Edmund
Gwenn, who plays Beeton, the housekeeper.
Mrs. Beeton doesn’t appear ; her husband merely
mentions her, but the audience feels that she leads
him a life that is not all beer and shrimps or rum
and shrub. Beeton is so patient, so respectful, so
smug, and after years of housekeeping in chambers
for such people as war correspondents and artists
who have Bessie Brokes as visitors as well as
Maisies, he is quite incapable of being surprised or
taken aback by anything hosts or guests may say
or do. Gwenn makes Beeton a very humorous
varlet. His wife (who, by the way, is a niece of
Ellen Terry) plays the very small part of a
French maid. Hastings’ elaborate and carefully-
worked-out study of the artist in his blindness
draws its nightly recognition of tears from the
audience. If Miss Chevalier (Maisie) would only
get some inflections into her one-note voice and
some of the hardness out of her methods, she
would make audiences love her more. Red-haired
girl, Olga Beattie-Kingston, has little to do but to
promise to make French coffee for Dick and to
look beautiful. As the last is her normal condition,
the task is not a hard one.
** * *
“ The Great Millionaire” seems likely to
achieve a record run for a piece of this type. It
still attracts crowded houses to Sydney Royal
after more than a month’s run.
** * *
May Moore Duprez has put her smoking-
room stories back into her carpet-bag, but she
continues, nevertheless, to bear the heat and
burden of eight performances per week at the
Tivoli, where the simple something that hangs
round her song-and-dance turns has even warmed
up audiences in dripping overcoats and mud-
clogged goloshes. The newest arrival, “Silly
Billy ” Elliott, is a moderate comedian who is a
good deal like 217 other imported music-hall
comedians, and his opening song, concerning the
unwisdom of taking in a lodger, is a good deal like
218 other songs concerning the same dangerous
brigand. The Bells, Six Empire Girls, Grahame’s
monkey Darwin, and the others mentioned a week
ago are still in the bill.
** * *
When the Permans finish the pursuit of
the Federal capital, and the Wolf gives over the
chase of Red Riding Hood, the Palace will flow
over with the crowd that will come to see Ameri-
can “ polite vaudeville.” Tom Nawn, who needs
no introduction, leads the co., which is just at
present not feeling very well, probably, on board
the Ventura; and there are “The Tossing
Austins,” eccentric pantomimists, Pete Baker,
monologue entertainer, Katherine Dane, balladist,
Hiawatha troubadours, and others whose scrap-
books, filled with the only sort of “notices” that
are ever put in scrapbooks, block up three state-
rooms on the ’Frisco boat. The season opens on
May 14.
&* * #
The pleasant little Pierrot company of
drawing-room entertainers, who had an Easter
season at St. James’ Hall, are following it with
another at Queen’s Hall. The only striking dif-
ference between what it was and is, is that the
Pierrette wears a white wig under her sugarloaf
hat these times, and flowers in her frock. The
entertainers Imne a very extensive repertoire, and
their humorous"' numbers, in which they score
their most popular successes, are far above the
average quality.
* * #- #
At the Palace pantomime the Per mans
have uncorked a new vintage of jokes—many of
them less deadly than “Old Red,” and some of
them as good as you can buy for 3s. 6d. a bottle.
The dancing is, however, still the most striking
feature of a bright, light, frolicsome show, which,
by the way, has only eight days more to run in
Sydney.
** * *
W. F. Hawtrey will conclude his “Mes-
sage from Mars” revival at the Criterion on
Friday night, and “Little Lord Fauntleroy,” who
hasn’t been seen on a Sydney stage for a long
while, will flaunt his golden curls once again on
Saturday night.
** * *
“ The Marriage of Kitty, ” staged at Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday, must certainly be
“ withdrawn at the zenith of its success” if the
merry little show is restricted to *a two weeks
season. It has all the fun and none of the foolish-
ness of a roaring farcical comedy. Every witty
line in the dialogueqs of value to the closely-knit
story. Not so uncompromisingly French in
character as the brilliant “Marriage of Con-
venience” which the Cartwright Co. introduced
to Melbourne some years back, ‘ ‘ The Marriage of
Kitty” is quite as entertaining as that older-
fashioned play, and more congenial to Australian
taste. Kitty gets the sympathy of her audience
all round. When, from purely mercenary motives,
and under false pretences of personal unattractive-
ness, she commits herself to a formal alliance with
the avowed adorer of another woman, she is seiz-
ing an opportunity that any ordinary wise virgin
of 28 would likewise jump at. She doesn’t cease
to be winsome in a moral way of speaking because
she has no reverence for the “high sacredness
of the marriage contract.” The matrimonial
tie (at a registrar’s office) presents itself to 4
her wide-awake eye as a pleasant financial arrange-
ment involving no domestic responsibilities. A
formal marriage—an incidental divorce —a lifelong
settlement—a shadowy, fleeting husband a
substantial fortune —a romantic reminiscence.
The plot of a sentimental tragedy has been con-
verted to the purpose of a broadly humorous
romance. The first act shows the disguised
charmer of 28 agreeing to marry a gentlemanly
Reginald, for the immediate benefit of both
parties and the ultimate benefit of the other
woman, a whirlwind widow from Peru.
Act 2 provides a suitable opportunity for
Reginald to discover that his formal wife is
more charming than the stormy relict who holds
him in thrall; moreover, it gives him the chance
to kiss her neck, which is a breach of contract.
Kitty cries “ How dare you !” with absolute sin-
cerity, but her maiden heart was almost at the
mercy of the first affable man who might dare,
and this memorable outrage confirms her in her
resolution re the Other Woman. Act 3 shows
how a husband is but potter’s clay in the hands of
a nice, new wife after she has decided to make the
best of him. The tempestuous Peruvian widow
is robbed of her Reggie by his lawful spouse, and
the happy pair flee from Peruvian wrath in a
hansom cab.
* * * *
Miss Rose Musgrove gives the necessary
charm of manner to the all-important Kitty, a
woman who might be dangerous if she were not so
anxious to fall, in love. The actress makes the
character tender and graceful as well as cute, and
her performance seems to justify the climax by sug-
gesting that she is just the sort of feminine “ hard
case ” who will take a masterful lover very seri-
ously when she gets him. Miss Florence Hamer
is an equally convincing picture of the tem-
pestuous adventuress from Peru, an expert in
the outward signs of jealousy, and a mistress of
the art of impatience where her slaves are con-
cerned. Wilfred Draycott is satisfactory, though
somewhat too effusive, as the sentimental Reggie-
about-town. And Athol Forde is forcible in the
easier part of the lawyer; also Miss Le Clercq
makes a good impression as a French maid re-
joicing in the belief that Madame and Monsieur
are two souls with but a single apartment. The
French maid bears the brand of the translated
comedy, “ made in Paris.”
** * *
“The Darling of the Gods,” with its
elaborate earthly and heavenly scenic appoint-
ments, and many bursts of musical tumult, will
pass away from Her Majesty’s after Friday night.
The last week or two of the Japanesque play has
restored Plimmer to Melbourne notice in the
character of Yo San’s noble father, and inasmuch
as Plimmer puts some ginger into his action when
he proposes to decapitate his offspring, he is prefer-
able to the previous father. With this exception the
cast of “ The Dariing ” remains unchanged. Even
the rustle of the invisible Samaurai souls as they fly
away to the First White Heaven, sounds the same
as at first. A lot of vigilant stage-management is
required for this drama, and from first to last the
business has been admirably done. On Saturday
the scene will change from Old Japan to Ancient
Rome. “The Sign of the Cross” is to be revived,
and Miss Jeffries and Julius Knight will get to an
Early Christian Heaven by way of the arena.
#* * #
At Melbourne Royal they are prospering
with the lurid story of the baby-farmer’s daughter
and Her Lively Time on Earth. Anderson’s
dramas certainly bid for the thoughtful considera-
tion of medical science. Two weeks ago a detec-
tive was raised from the' dead by a mad doctor,
and now a demented sea' captain is restored to
reason by the corpse of, an organ-grinder, whose
Face in the sand looks uncommonly like the
countenance that appeared at the window afore-
time.
#* * #
The strong bill at the Opera House was
refreshed last Saturday by a change of songs from
Nat Clifford, Maud Beatty, and other people.
Also Ernest Fitts took the place of a less strong
and portly baritone to the satisfaction of a vast
audience.
** * #
An interesting one-night season of Miss
Annette Kellermann, will happen at the Bijou on
Saturday, in order that Melbourne may do honor
to that adorable water nymph ere she quits the
country. A large and variegated show' has been
designed for the occasion, and one of the items
will be an aquatic aet, including an abortive
attempt to drown Miss K. by putting her into a
bag, or box like that of the Boot-trunk Tragedy,
and dropping her from a giddy height into the
cold damp waters of a tank.
-* * * #
The Athenaeum Hall re-opens on Saturday
with a frankly Caledonian entertainment. Miss
Donaldson, described as the Gaelic prima-donna
of Glasgow, and Mr. Gavin Spence, a tenor and
entertainer frae Edinburgh, are going to appear
for five nights. All good Scotsmen, whose hearts
warm to the tartan, and whose souls burn at the
touch of the haggis, are invited to roll up and bring
their kilts.
** * *
Rickards is running a two-weeks season
at Adelaide Tivoli, with two items which make
their first appearance in Australia. Nellie Kilburn
is one of these. In a light-blue dress, with lyrics
to match, she shows all the methods which make
a London “serio” successful. The other new
item is a quick-sketching turn by one Angelo,
while another Angelo does low-comedy antics
round the studio. One is named Michael and the
other Patrick Angelo. The celebrities drawn are
rather those of the day-before-yesterday than of
to-day—Kitchener, Gladstone, and Queen Victoria.
The Dewar turn with dogs and cats is the chief at-
traction, and the determined expression of the white
kittens’ faces, as they cling grimly to their saddles
in the steeplechase, is alone worth the admission
money. The Royal has been closed.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Australian Mutual Provident Society :
Written
off or
Provided Added
Total Ex- against De- to
Income. Claims. penses. preciation. Funds.
1894.. £1,970,490 £1,083,452 £164,563 £241,821 £480,654
1895.. 2,009,844 1,091,448 169,537 21,487 727,372
1896.. 2,029,674 1,225,123 180,750 57,874 565,927
1897.. 2,030,566 1,118,915 179,215 31,397 751,039
1898.. 2,152,177 1,223,261 197,977 31,468 699,471
1899.. 2,243,644 1,104,551 223,942 19,461 895,690
1900.. 2,364,216 1,178,107 213,268 17,737 955,104
1901.. 2,456,389 1,389,051 208,749 23,920 834,669
1902.. 2,509,729 1,355,073 218,394 21,663 914,599
1903.. 2,598,809 1,451,680 229,987 21,832 895,310
The total amount of insurance funds at the end of the
year was £19,674,423.
Entirely on account of the Irvine income-tax in
Victoria, which was payable during the year for the first
time, the expense rate is rather higher than it was in the
previous year. This tax amounted to £6500, and was
equal to just ss. per cent, on the society’s gross income.
As, in spite of this extra impost, the year’s expense rate
was only 3s. per cent, higher than it was in the preceding
year, it’ follows that in other respects the expense rate
was lower than it was in 1902. The movement for the
past 10 years has been :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1894.. £8 7 0 per cent. 1899.. £9 19 8 per cent.
1895.. 8 8 8 „ 1900.. 9 0 5 „
1896.. 818 1 „ 1901.. 810 0 „
1897.. 812 3 „ 1902.. 814 0 „
1898.. 9 4 0 „ 1903.. 817 0 „
In the foregoing the amounts spent in improvements to
premises are treated as amounts written off and not as
expenses.
In addition to the insurance funds stated above
(£19,674,423), the A.M.P. has a reserve for the possible
depreciation of securities which now amounts to £257,829.
Including this latter reserve, to which £3,874 was added
last year, the interest earned on mean funds was £4 18s.
lOd. per cent., which is a further reduction on the pre-
vious year’s earnings, though a small one. Ten years
figures:—
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1894 .. £5 11 10 p.c. 1899 .. £4 11 10 p.c.
1895 .. 5 5 2 „ 1900 .. 4 9 7 „
1896 .. 5 0 5,, 1901 .. 4 9 6 „
1897 .. 417 0 „ 1902 .. 4 9 2 ~
1898 .. 414 10 „ 1903 .. 4 810 „
The low price of State securities, and the high rate of
interest offered for new Government loans, has resulted in
a large increase in this class of security. The principal
assets compare with those of 12 months previously in this
way :
1902. 1903. Increases
Mortgages .. .. £8,998,177 £9,306,223 £308,046
Municipal Loans .. 1,168,398 1,210,819 42,421
Loans on Policies .. 4,095,740 4,235,044 139,304
Public Securities .. 3,220,108 3,736,104 515,996
Premises 371,865 358,265
Foreclosed Properties. 558,245 546,864 11,381
Deposits 394,281 304,492 89,789
The striking- feature in the distribution of assets during
the past 10 years has been the increasing- investment in
public securities. The principal lines show up as follows
1893. 1903.
Mortgages . 58 per cent. 46 per cent.
Municipal Loans .. ■ • i >, 6. ~
Loans on Policies .. .. 25J ~ 21 „
Public Securities .. .. 3| ~ 18J „
Premises 3| ~ 111 »
Foreclosed Properties .. l| ~ 2£ „
Deposits 5 \ ~ 14 „
The small balance in each case is made up of accrued
interest, loans on the security of debentures, &c. There
can be no doubt that, while the movement may have
helped to reduce the interest earnings, it has put the
society on a surer basis.
General manager and actuary Teece, of the
A.M.P., this year further extends the use of the 3 per
cent, basis in valuing- policy liabilities, all immediate
annuities being now valued at that rate as well as all new
participating business issued in 1903. This has increased
the liabilities by £13,650 ; but there still remains a
surplus of £661,663 —which, unfortunately, the society
proceeds to at once get rid of by way of bonus (£582,168).
The failure to build up a great, solid reserve is the one
unpleasing feature in connection with this magnificent
institution.
The A.M.P. directors confirm the announce-
ments already made with regard to the acceptance of
industrial business, and add nothing to the information
already given in The Bulletin.
* ♦ * »
N.S.W. railways show a net improvement of
£71,363 for the first quarter of 1904 as compared with
the same period of 1903 ; but this makes no allowance for
the larger interest bill which has to be paid this year, 142£
miles more line being now open. For the nine months of
the financial year that have expired earnings amount to
£2,647,916 and working expenses to £1,732,850, leaving
£915,066 available for interest. Last year the interest
payable was £1,474,473. If the last quarter is similar to
the first three the year will end with £1,220,000
available to pay about £1,490,000 of interest, which
means a railway deficit for the year of £270,000, as against
£425,879 last year. As, however, the current three
months is, generally speaking, a dull one on the railways,
it is hardly likely that even so favorable a result as this
will be obtained. For the nine months the working
expenses amounted to 65-44 per Cent, of gross earnings.
These are better figures than last year’s (68-37), but with
that one exception they are the worst since 1893.
* * * *
The Bank of Adelaide :
Added to
March, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1893 . £30,976 7 p.c. =£28,000 £2,976 £158,477
1894.. 30,763 7 „ „ 28,000 2,763 161,240
1895.. 31,049 7 „ „ 28,000 3,049 164,289
1896.. 31,225 7 „ , 28,000 3,225 167,514
1897.. 31,047 7 „,, 28,000 3,047 170,561
1898.. 33,401 7 „ „ 28,000 5,401 175,962
1899.. 33,026 7 „ „ 28,000 5,026 180,988
1900.. 38,413 8 „ „ 32,000 6,413 187,401
1901.. 48,097 8 „ „ 32,000 16,097 203,498
1902.. 45,925 8 „ „ 32,000 13,925 217,423
1903.. 52,317 8 „ „ 32,000 20,317 237,740
1904.. 47,337 8 „ „ 32,000 15,337 253,077
Late in 1902 and early in 1903 S. Australia lived in fatness :
it was raking up its hay and sending it East at prices
which it hadn’t heard of for years. The result showed in
the figures of S. Australia’s one remaining pri-
vate bank. This year, with a heavier harvest,
prices are low, and the bank’s profits have fallen
considerably, though they are still uncommonly hand-
some. The paid capital is £400,000 ;on that and reserves,
the return was at the rate of £7 Bs. sd. per cent. The
previous year’s result on same basis was £8 9s. sd. per
cent. The Adelaide, though it is paying a very sub-
stantial dividend, is also building up a fine reserve fund:
during the past four years it has added to it an average of
more than 4 per cent, of the capital per annum. It is
partly this which now allows it to pay large dividends
while maintaining an unusually large proportion of liquid
reserves. Comparing the position further with that of
12 months back these results show up :
Mar., 1903. Mar., 1904. Increases.
Deposits .. .. £2,148,960 £2,218,374 £69,414
Advances, etc. .. 1,470,339 1,651,884 81,645
Notes in circulation 127,702 136,710 9,008
State securities .. 415,435 434,192 18,757
AH liquid assets .. 1,620,579 1,609,179 11,400
Bills in circulation 204,749 180,285 24,464
The movements are nothing like as large as they were the
previous year ; but such as they are, they ought not to
mean reduced earnings ; they ought to mean, under ordi-
nary circumstances, larger earnings, in fact. The liquid
assets represent no less than 63 per cent, of all debts to
the public—a remarkably large percentage, which, as
before said, makes the high earnings all the more credits
able to the management.
* * * •
The successful Australasian Mutual Live Stock
Insurance Society, Ltd. (Melbourne), which last year
showed a profit of £839 on a paid capital of £3089, has de-
clared a dividend of 6d., and concurrently made a call of
3d. The co. is in 27,450 shares, all but five of which are
contributing. The plan adopted really means distributing
£343 (about 11 per cent.) and capitalising an equal
amount, which will leave the reserves at £943.
* * * *
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Re-
serves. serves.
Sept., 1897..£85,307 10 p.c. = £85,100 £207 £418,333
Mar., 1898.. 85,728 10 „ „ 85,100 628 418,961
Sept., 1898.. 85,408 10 „ „ 85,100 308 419,269
Mar., 1899.. 85,588 10 „ „ 85,100 488 419,757
Sept., 1899.. 85,819 10 „ „ 85,100 719 420,476
Mar., 1900.. 89,414 10 „ „ 89,255 159 420,685
Sept., 1900.. 89,389 10 „ „ 89,344 45 420,680
Mar., 1901.. 93,608 10 „ ~ 93,537 71 420,761
Sept., 1901.. 93,930 10 „ „ 93,610 320 421,071
Mar., 1902.. 100,199 10 „ „ 99,776 423 421,494
Sept., 1902.. 100,352 10 „ „ 99,959 393 421,887
Mar., 1903.. 100,298 10 „ ~100,000 298 422,185
Sept., 1903.. 100,316 10 „ ~100,000 316 422,501
Mar., 1904.. 100,412 10 „ ~100,000 412 422,913
The capital is still £2,000,000, the new issue of shares not
ranking for dividend this half-year. The directors take
their usual gloomy view of the position : “ In the existing


~-,7*
tramways for mines. __
ECONOMY IN HAULACE. —Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &e.
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives i.e., EVERYTHING,
a®* Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Raor. Ltd., 40 Hunter St,, SYDNEY. A. E. L.EPL./S TRIER, Manager,
Representing Oru.xstein and Kopi’EL, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
Previous to the invention of the Wilfley Slime
Table there was no practical method of concentrating
slimes and finally divided particles of mineral The
problem of saving valuable slimes in modern concentrat-
ing mills has been a very difficult one. The loss due to
sliming of certain ores has often amounted to a certain
percentage of the total value. The wash water from the
Vanners or Concentrating tables carry over small
particles of mineral which are too fine to be saved upon
the tables, but by passing these tailings over the Wilfley
Slime Table, the slimes and fine mineral are saved auto-
matically, and in a marketable condition. We believe
this table will be received by millmen as a necessary
adjunct to a concentrating plant, and it has been formed
to successfully handle and save the values in tailings
from Canada, Colorado, Arizona, and old Mexico. Full
particulars concerning this valuable table can be obtained
from the Austral Otis Engineering Company of South
Melbourne, who are the Sole Agents.*
* * * !*
The Daily Telegraph, Sydney, 28th May,
1903 :—“ The year’s business of the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society, was reported as the greatest for the
last eleven years. The report pointed out that the main
features of the year were a larger new business, an in-
creased premium income, a higher rate of interest earned
on investments, a greater increase in funds and a lower
expense ratio.”*
* » e *
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
• • * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N’.S.W..
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * • •
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* » * »
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Rivited Steel Pipes for the town water supply’*
* * ♦ »
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the world. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * »
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report: on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
To Prospectors And Others.—The Curtin-
Davis Proprietary Co. N.L. is prepared to purchase
approved mining properties. Particulars to, John Potts,
Legal Manager, 31 Queen-street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
A good find is reported at Mt. Shamrock (Q.)
by the original prospector of Mt. Biggenden mine. It’s a
shade of odds the stuff will be cursed with bismuth.
Hardly a mine in the district is free from it. If this is so
the mine will have to be very rich in gold to do much
good. The London bismuth ring will see that the
owners get little out of it. Queensland, the home of the
small show man—the owner-miner—abounds in those
metals for which there is no local market and which are
controlled at “ the other end” by rings. The Q. miner is
constantly pleading for a market for his antimonv, his
bismuth, wolfram, scheelite (also a tungstic mineral),
molybdenite, for his minerals and his gems. Until all
our industries are highly protected and Australia gets a
move on in the same direction as the U. States, the pros-
pector will have a hard time, and the “magnificent
natural resources” will be worth little to the country
that owns them.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Wiarkwald,
174 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide :
Brisbane; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin
; 94 Eagle-at.
at Auckland
N.Z.
edition of affairs in the sugar market and in Australian
politics, there is not much inducement to increase ourin-
estments, either as regards the manufacture or refining’
M sugar.” But still they pay 10 per cent. The profit is,
as usual, shown to be just over the amount necessary to
do this ; apparently, however, a large amount has been
also written ofif. ‘‘Land and improvements,” which were
reckoned at £.316,640 six months ago, now stand at
£196,912 ; presumably the difference (and probably more,
represented by additions) has been written off meantime.
The co. is therefore urged not to give way to grief.
Things might be worse than they are. The co. might
even reflect that it never paid a 10 per cent, dividend
until IS9I, the year after the Labor party got into poli-
tics. Before that it had only managed from 6to 9 per
cent.
* * * *
The High Court judgment in M ‘Laughlin v.
Sydney Daily Telegraph Co. will make co.’s chary about
registering share-transfers on powers of attorney. Solici-
tor M‘Laughlin was a holder of 118 shares, and was for a
while mentally affected. While more or less in that state
he executed a power of attorney, upon which his D.T.
shares were sold and the proceeds used in the interests of
M‘Laughlin and his family. He now sought to be restored
to the register. The Court unanimously found that “if
it was shown that the insane person did not know what
he was doing, and the person who procured the execution
was aware of the fact, it was absolutely void ”; and
further, that the power of attorney was not valid even to
protect (as in this case) “ any person who honestly acted
on the faith of its validity.” Judgment was given for
11‘Laughlin, who has since the execution recovered his
health ; but it is accompanied by the order, which he him-
self suggested, that he shall pay the co. the amount re-
ceived for the shares when they were sold. He, however,
is to receive new shares issued gratis since 1900, and the
dividends paid since the transfer ; and the co. is to pay
costs. The latter will be very heavy, as the case had been
argued at great length in the N.S.W. Equity Court,
where Justice A. H. Simpson had found for the co. The
Yale of Clwydd Coal Co. is struck in the same way as
the Telegraph Co., though not to the same extent.
* » * ♦
The Illawarra Steam Navigation Co. (Syd-
ney) :
Added
Net Written to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
Mar., 1900 £27,506
Sept., 1900 £2098 8} p.c. =£2490 27,114
Mar., 1901 2777 8| „ „ 2490 £287 27,401
Sept, 1901 2215 8f „ „ 2490 £625 26,501
Mar., 1902 2392 8| „ „ 2490 26,403
Sept., 1902 2508 8| „ „ 2490 18 26,421
Mar., 1903 3060 8| „ „ 2490 570 26,991
Sept., 1903 2319 8f „ „ 2490 26,820
Mar., 1904 2692 8J „ „ 2490 202 27,022
The co. is in process of a very unusual sort of reconstruc-
tion ; the Owe’See having at length paid £21,054 for the
co.’s resumed wharf, the co. has now £43,000 of Treasury
bills and deposit moneys, most of which it hasn’t any use
for in the business, so it proposes to reduce capital and
pay out 10s. a share ; the balance is, apparently, going
into new boats. The business, as far as its position is dis-
closed, appears to be as prosperous as usual.
* * * *
An amended announcement has been made
regarding the A. J.S. Bank reconstruction. Previously it
was given out that £1,017,302 of capital would be written
off, leaving the reserves (£326,112) intact. It is now stated
that these reserves will be written off, as well as £1,010,598
of capital; this will apparently leave shareholders’ funds at
£164,117. This is much more satisfactory ; in fact, since
recent earnings show about 4£ per cent, on this amount,
it looks like a complete cleaning up.
* » « *
The Equitable Permanent Benefit Building,
Land, and Savings Institution (Sydney)
Dividends: Paid
up Shares, 9 p.c. ; Written Re-
March, Profits. Contrib., 8 p.c. Off. serves.
1895 .. No information supplied. £29,003
1896 .. „ £47 30,438
1897 .. „ 467 27,587
1898 .. „ 728 27,313
1899 .. £7BlO £6363 421 28,339
1900 .. No information supplied 317 26,785
1901 .. 7556 6373 1,286 26,682
1902 .. 8431 9 p.c. = 6338 522 28,253
1903 .. 8466 12 „ „ 8451 210 28,058
1904 .. 8966 9 „ „ 6338 1,053 29,633
This is as near the facts of the case as the remark-
able form of the balance sheets will allow one to get.
There were formerly a few contributing or advanced
shares, but all are now paid up, and participated equally
in the triennial bonus paid in 1903, which brought up the
dividend for that year to 12 per cent. The society’s paid
capital is £70,425 ; on that and reserves combined the
earnings were at the handsome rate of £9 2s. Id. per cent.
Net profits, however, only just exceeded £8 per cent. In
addition to its capital the society is trading on £129,882
of deposits; on the other side, mortgages represent
£198,972 of the assets—practically the total amount of the
paid capital and deposits, leaving only the reserves to be
represented by cash and office premises.
* * * *
Sydney Telegraph, throwing a brick at Acting-
Premier Wise’s Local Government proposal that munici-
palities should have the right to say whether they will
tax on the basis of improvements, or on the unimproved
value of land, says that at Broken Hill, in order to bring
in as much as the present Is. rate (on improvements), a
tax of 235. 3d. in the £ on the unimproved value would be
necessary. The fact is that at Broken Hill a very large
part of the improvements are on land held under various
mining titles, which, not being freeholds, have no “ un-
improved value.” This is just what makes Wise’s pro-
posal necessary ; it gives each district a chance to adopt
the system which suits it best. And, anyhow, the Tele-
graph's figures are all wrong : instead of working out at
235. 3d., the Broken Hill figures are less than half that.
The 235. 3d. rate would give it a rate revenue of £71,000,
which is four times more than the revenu actually is.
The Federal Building, Land and Investment
Society (Brisbane): —
Outgoings. Forfeited
■■ 1 Capital
Loss on Loss on Total Carried to Re-
Mar., Business. Property. Loss. Reserves. serves.
1895 ..£2141 £715 £2,856
1896 .. 2154 58,482 60,636 £68,272
1897 .. 1450 604 2,054
1898 .. 1289 1,520 2,809 250
1899 .. 1431 867 2,298 366
1900 .. 897 540 1,437 456 £14,453
1901 .. 649 153 802 1,830 15,481
1902 .. 196 565 761 484 15,204
1903 .. 256 59 315 62 14,951
Profit.
1904 .. 243 35 208 245 34,988
The past year’s loss on current business was rather larger
than shown above ; the net loss is reduced to £243 by the
recovery of £77 previously written off as bad. The in-
terest hill is still very heavy, though it shows a slight
improvement ; this may possibly be due to a reduction of
the overdraft, which now stands at £2422 (nearly £4OOO
less than last year). Deposits total £33,258, a slight
increase on last year’s figures. The paid capital is
£46,877 ; and the assets are almost exclusively freeholds
(acquired by purchase and foreclosure), £55,085, and
loans and unpaid purchase money, £44,007. The poor
return from properties, coupled with the high rate paid
on the society’s own borrowings, stands in the way of
profits. The best that can be said is that the loss is being
gradually but surely reduced.
* * * *
A trifle of £2,672,897 is the amount Treasurer
Kidston of Queensland has on his books as due by town
and shire councils, sugar mills, water boards, grammar
school?, and sundry local and other bodies. If Kidston
could induce this lot to settle up he could fake a surplus
that would paralyse Reid.
* * * *
Y\ ith Napoleonic audacity, considering who bad
the principal hand in the bit of trade trickery, Melbourne
Age rose, the other day, to denounce last year’s “ comer ”
m \ ictonan butter. Speculative agents,” Syme’s organ
remarked, “ stored in anticipation of prolonged scarcity
and higher prices, instead of forwarding to London to
supply the demands of legitimate trade. Finally they had
to unload on the Londonmarket, and this caused a depreci-
ation in the reputation of Australian butter.” This con-
cern for the stomachs of the London buyers is typical of
the whole attitude of Victorian .Governments and the local
press. The best of everything is sent to London, and the
local consumer has got to put up with “ rejects ’’—scaly
fruit, kitten rabbits, starveling mutton, and half-rancid
butter. Even in the case of the butter held in store by
the “ corner” it was only the best that went to London ;
that in a badly deteriorated condition was kept for sale in
Melbourne and other centres. Japan grows good rice and
exports it to buy bad rice to eat. The borrowing policy
is bringing Australia down to that point too.
* * * »
The Tasmanian Pebmanent Executobs and
Trustees Association Ltd. (Launceston) :
Added
Dividends and to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
March, 1898.. £387 5 per cent.=£262 £125 £530
Sept., 1898.. 405 5 „ „ 262 143 673
March, 1899.. 316 5 „ „ 262 54 727
Sept., 1899.. 375 5 „ „ 262 113 840
March, 1900.. 454 5 „ „ 262 192 1032
Sept., 1900.. 397 5 „ „ 262 135 1167
March, 1901.. 760 6 „ „ 315 445 1612
Sept., 1901.. 523 6 „ , 315 208 1820
March, 1902.. 465 6 „ „ 315 150 1970
Sept., 1902.. 626 6 „ „ 315 311 2281
March, 1903.. 510 6 „ „ 315 195 2476
Sept., 1903.. 470 6 „ „ 315 155 2631
March, 1904.. 815 6 „ „ 315 500 3131
If the co. could maintain this rate it would be among the
most profitable trustee businesses in Australia ; the
return is only a fraction under £l3 per cent, per annum
on total shareholders’ funds—to be exact, £l2 18s. lid.
Only three Australian trustee co.’s show more than that.
* * « *
The Heddon-Gbeta Goal Co. is still largely at
the development stage, and a considerable amount of the
expenditure is charged to development account. Whether
this is a good asset or otherwise can’t yet be stated. The
co.’s progress (or otherwise) is shown hereunder: —
Total Deficit
Ooal Land charged (apart from
Sales. Sales. to De- Develop-
velopment. ment).
Mar., 1902.. £504 £1798 £1951
Sept., 1902.. 2983 £668 4888 1247
Mar., 1903.. 4290 1685 5692 521'
Sept., 1903.. 8599 94 7573 380
Mar., 1904.. 9927 209 9881 i 520
The assets as set out in the balance-sheet include two
paper items—“ Flotation Expenses ” and “ Cost of Estab-
lishing Business in Sydney ” —which are not reckoned as
assets in the foregoing. Besides its capital (£42,753 in
fully-paid shares) the co. has issued £lO,OOO debentures,
and its overdrafts on March 31 totalled £5063, an increase
of £3OOO during the past half-year. On account of the
keen competition of the old producers, colliery-develop-
ment is a hard, uphill game in N.S.W. nowadays ; and
though the Heddon-Greta is gettinga market (the output
was 4500 tons greater last half than in its predecessor)
dividends don’t show in sight yet.
* * * *
Broken Hill ended the first quarter of the year
with more men employed at and in connection with its
mines than in any March since 1893, with one exception.
The biggest comparative increase in output was in
“ zincs ” (magnetics): 8800 tons were exported as against
25 tons in the corresponding quarter of 1903. Ordinary
concentrates totalled 56,126 tons (against 45,785 tons);
slimes, 15,310 tons (16,377 tons). The total local value
was £317,853, compared with £217,289 in 1903. The B.H.
Props.’s larger output and the re-starting of the British
were mainly responsible.
* * * <9
The most encouraging feature about the produc-
tion of zinc concentrates by B.H. Block 14 is the improve-
ment in the grade to 47£ per cent. Smelting costs are, if
anything, lower for higher-grade ore ; less coal is con-
sumed, and the loss by volatilisation is less proportion-
ately. The loss with zinc ores is often 20 per cent, of
metal assays. Schobell says the average loss is about 15
per cent. If Broken Hill can get its zinc ores up to 50 per
cent, the margin of profit would be greatly increased, for
every additional unit of zinc in the concentrates means
about 4s. Smelting zinc ores depends very much on the
cost of coal, and in this respect Australia is level with
Germany, where coal is 6s. 3d at pit’s mouth.
* * * *
Three Broken Hill divs. were announced in the
last days of April—B.H. Prop., South, and British.
South’s prospects continue very good. At depth the ore
maintains its value, and is even richer—and that rarely
happens. Certainly it is harder, and treatment costs are
higher. The last week’s run gave over lOoz. silver to the
ton, which is about 2oz. above the average. The mine’s
deepest winze is in a solid body of a little better than fair-
grade ore ; and all round fine faces are exposed. The co.
has splendid resources, and, though it is talking least
about the subject, will benefit as much as any from the
development of zinc processes. Practically none of its ore
carries less than 16 per cent, zinc, and much of it is richer
than that.
* * * *
The worst trouble in connection with the
acid process of zinc extraction at Broken Hill so far
has been that the acid has eaten away the metal of the
machines. The parts most attacked have now been made
of regulus, and Block 14 reports success. What is needed
next are Australian works to reduce the zinc concentrates
to metal. So far this is nearly all done in Germany.
It is a remarkable fact that Germany probably derives
more benefit from Broken Hill than Australia does. A
zinc bonus would be the first step towards ending that
anomaly.
* * * *
That Orange district (N.S.W.) wild cat, the
Great Lucknow Consols, is evidently very close up to the
rocks. The Associated Financial Corporation was going
to finance it, but it has troubles of its own ; and the Cool-
gardie Gold Syndicate has apparently taken on the job—
on mortgage, at 20 per cent, interest !
* * * *
A Newcastle capitalist has caught the gold craze,
and is spending much money in an endeavor to make a
fortune in gold extracted from the heach sands round Port
Stephens. He has imported several gold-saving machines
and experts from America, and experiments to the present
have proved fairly successful.
* * * *
“M.C.” : Under the terms of Sandford’s pro-
posed contract with the State for the supply of 50,000
tons of iron and steel, valued at about £300,000, the
community would benefit far more than from the expen-
diture of an equal sum of borrowed money. Not only
does the State lose by placing such a contract abroad, but,
being deprived of work and income, it is less able to stand
the racket of the interest on the accumulated debt and
the undertow of its unemployed. The State, not entering
directly into the business, certainly cannot make the
profits that Sandford may possibly make ; neither, on the
other hand, does it take the risk—and the risk is greater
than some seem to imagine ; in fact, enormous losses are
frequently made. If Sandford expends £300,000 upon
works, and if we allow £30,000 as a fair return to
cover interest and depreciation, and £1 per ton
as a reasonable margin of profit on puddled bar
iron and steel, then, in order to get this return,
Sandford will have to produce 30,000 tons a year, and to
pay away £150,000 for wages and material. It would pay
the State very well to give Sandford a large bonus to pro-
duce a result like this, and the Freetrader should learn
that by heart. To start the industrial development of the
manufacturing iron industry we need Protection. For
years past partly manufactured products of iron and steel
could be imported at very low prices, yet the local trade
in even the simplest forms of finished goods has been very
small. We have not produced iron, but immense
quantities of lead and copper have been produced, and yet
nothing has been done to draw the copper into wire for
electrical purposes, or to manufacture white lead, though
both these things are prominent among imports.
There is a powerful English white lead trust. The
people want to make their own iron or copper wire,
paint, etc., but there is no chance of making
headway without high Protection. Why ? Simply
because the foreign industries have had time to be-
come highly organised ; because of the immense finan-
cial and competitive power of trusts, both English and
German ; because of subsidies and bounties on German
trade, and differential duties. Prices can be so graduated
as to under-cut colonial trade, as was evidenced in the
recent English tenders for locomotives. Some European
industries depend on cheap coal and very low-priced
labor ; for instance, zinc-smelting. Yet America, because
it is highly protected, finds it possible to treat zinc ores,
even with high-priced labor.
* * * *
“Jimmy S.”: Outbursts of sulphuretted
hydrogen are affecting miners working at
Hebburn (S.W. Maitland) colliery. Hitherto N.S.W.
collieries have been little troubled with “stink damp,”
excepting in old workings. Being slightly heavier than
air (specific gravity 1*171), it is somewhat difficult to deal
with ; still, a brisk ventilation, with bridge bratticing
focussing the current, should about meet the case. This
gas is produced by decay of organic matter, and also by
decomposition of brass (iron pyrites) by mine waters.
To make a slight acquaintance with it, get a few cases of
eggs at popping point into a small room. After closing
doors, windows and ventilators break ail the eggs, and you
have “stink damp ” minus the pressure of a few atmos-
pheres.
* s> * *
North Duke, Maryborough (Vic.), intends to
have a shot at finding the tributary, which is being
worked by the Duke United, further down the lead. It
looks as it the gutter makes west from the United shaft.
As it is rising very fast, North Duke ought to wait a bit.
* * * »
Why do the Melbourne papers constantly puff
up the Duke and Main Leads Consols, below Timor?
When the mine has been opened up, let ft speak for itself.
There is not enough promise in any of the Duke mines for
people to get hysterical about them. The latest tarra-
diddle is that the Duke lead, when in the Duke and Main
Leads Consols ground, will be enriched because of the
junction with it of the Main lead. The melancholy his-
tory of the mines on the Main lead is one fact against ex-
pecting much gold to have gone from it into the Duke
lead. Another fact is that gold does not carry very far.
Therefore to talk about 14,000 ft. on the Duke lead “ being
enriched from its confluence with the Main lead ” is to
state an impossibility. Better to look for gold in the
runs of quartz alongside the gutter than to rely on such
surmising. Duke United work on the lower end of the
gutter has not so far exposed improving ground, nor is it
clear that Main Leads North has any dirt much above the
average.
* * » *
“With non-union labor and coal-cutting machines
50 per cent, additional output is being achieved ” at the
Jumbunna coal mine (Vic.). So chairman Murray says.
Yet shares stop at about 25., so there cannot be much
profit in the operations of the vaunted “ new men.” Any-
way, it is not much chop to deride the unionists, who, on
a matter of principle, have tightened their belts and
fought so doggedly for what they believe to be their
rights. If the co. is doing so well, which, in the light of
a sick share market and a debenture issue, seems doubt-
ful, where is the need for the State to keep up the railway
subsidy to the Gippsland coal co.’s?
* * * *
Peacock’s crowd has got hold of the old Langi
Logan lease, near St. Arnaud. Bradshaw, of the Cath-
cart, grabbed it, and he has since been pegging out other
leases. “Maldori” Gray and others held the blocks for
years. The ground is one of "the choicest alluvial spots,
and shepherding ought not to be allowed. In the old
days all the diamond-drill hands went nap on the claim as
the result of the boring. Stupidity led to the loss of the
shaft, and never a pick has since been put in.
Kt *J» ■ *i* #
Not content with the control of most of the big
mines, Bewick, Moreing and Co, are stretching out to grab
the mercantile trade of the Westralian goldfields. They
have established a stores-purohasing department in Fre-
mantle, where they buy everything in bulk, and what
they can’t get on the spot they cable f®r to Germany or
elsewhere. This has already, closed down several iron-
mongery and other businesses at the Boulder And Kal-
goorlie, and before long 8., M. and Co. will have a com-
plete monopoly of the supply of mining stores and re-
quisites. Scores of tradesmen who have struggled to
build up a business are faced with ruin, and feeling on the
fields is running strong against the firm, whose preference
for cheap and nasty labor and foreign products of every
kind is notorious. B.M. will have a lively time presently
if they carry their policy much further. An export duty
on gold has already been mooted by several candidates
whose chances for election are good. They argue, if Eng-
land imposes an export duty on coal, why should not
Westralia place an export tax on gold ?
* * * *
Westralian managers are a good deal to blame
for the hold that Bewick, Moreing, and Co. are getting
on the industry. If they hadn’t piled up billets for their
friends, 8., M., and Co. would not be able to show the
great reductions in costs that they do—though they don’t
always do it fairly, by the way. The greatest danger
from this concentration of control is that the one firm
could throw the whole State into confusion. Under the
W.A. mining law the mines may be closed down for six
months without the sanction of anybody ; so, while this
clause remains, 8., M. and Co. have the State almost at
their mercy. They could practically shut up Westralia.
* * * *
Bewick, Moreing and Co. seem to have a sus-
picion that they have been going too fast. They profess
to have discovered with surprise and alarm that cheap
Italian miners have lately been employed in great numbers
at some of their mines, and they have issued instructions
for the discharge of those who can’t speak English, on the
ground that their employment constitutes a danger. It
is remarkable that this very wideawake firm should only
find out now what miners have been grumbling about,
not for months, but actually for years. It can’t escape
notice that a general election is coming-, and that the
hostile feeling towards 8., M. and Co. was shaping a good
many candidates’ opinions and policies. Conversions
during an election campaign are always suspicious.
* * * *
Bellevue, Mt. Sir Samuel (W.A.), official reports
show much better results than they have done for a long-
time past, the different faces showing an average of about
loz. per ton. There is something peculiar about this.
When it was said a while back that the faces averaged
from 4 to sdwt., the yield was 15dwt. ; now, when the
faces are alleged to show an ounce, the returns give only
7dwt. A large amount of work is being prosecuted both
on the surface and below ground, and, as a consequence,
expenditure greatly exceeds revenue. The new 40-head
mill is nearing completion, so the output of the mine will
be materially increased shortly. A very large heap of
accumulated tailings is lying on the mine, but, as they
contain 2£ per cent, of copper in addition to 4 to sdwt. of
gold, they are not amenable to ordinary cyanide treat-
ment. It is said that the copper is being gradually
leached out of them by the action of the air and the
mineralised salt water, and that eventually the gold will
be recovered.
* * * *
It is now definitely stated, whereas previously
it was only rumored, that Bewick, Moreing and Co. will
take charge of the Perseverance and Boulder Deep Levels,
Kalgoorlie, as soon as Ralph Nicols arrives, and is in a
Eosition to hand them over. Nicols’ management has
een very severely criticised by some sections of the press
on account of his secrecy, but it is a moot point whether
his secretive methods are any worse than those of his
successors. Because information is hard to glean some
state that the eyes are being picked out, and stigmatise
the output as fireworks returns. This is done with the
view of “ drawing ” the management, but the scheme has
failed. A year ago it was stated that there were 400,000
tons of reserves above the 700 ft. level, since when 130,000
tons have been treated. As each level of 100 ft. is
estimated to contain 110,000 tons, the reserves must now
show a large increase unless the grade in the lower levels
is very much poorer.
<• * * *
Standard Exploration Co., which holds Padding-
ton Consols (reported in Bulletin last week as shut
down), held its annual meeting recentlv under the chair-
manship of ex-Gov. Jerry Smith. In one part of his
speech the chairman stated that “if this mine went an
average value of 9dwt. it would pay us ” ; while later on
he is reported as saying that “ it is absolutely established
that, in order to pay a div. on a W.A. mine of a second-
grade character, you have to get lOdwt. stuff, and not
less.” The meeting decided to raise £15,000 by deben-
tures to clear off a debt of £3OOO and provide £12,000 to
play with. As previously stated, the lode at the 500 ft.
proved quite unpayable, and is as poor, if not poorer, at
700 ft., so that to spend another £12,000 on such a wild-cat
seems utter folly. Hartmann used to treat what he
called 12dwt. ore, but did not make even that pay. The
upper levels of the mine are in a deplorable muddle, the
result of former anxiety to secure tonnage.
Oroya-Brown Hill, Kalgoorlie (W. A.), will proba-
bly be the boss gold producer of the State for some time.
8., M. and Co. have stated that they consider it justifiable
to increase the output to 2oz. per ton, which means nearly
17,0000 z. fine gold per month. The eyes of the mine are
being picked out, as The Bulletin pointed out some time
ago ; and, although the increased yield may temporarily
boom the scrip, it will come down with a dull thud some
day. The Brown Hill block is practically worked
out, and nearly all the gold now being won comes from
the Oroya north block. As all the winzes and rises are
following the rich ore as a black tracker follows a spoor, it
is a dead certainty that, sooner or later, the same fate will
overtake the Oroya-Brown Hill as overtook Associated
Northern. Oroya’s south block contains a large amount
of low grade ore, and some very rich ore will have to be
thrown in to bring lOdwt. stuff up to 2oz.
* * * #
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), doesn’t appear
to be quite as played out as interested people lately
represented. During March the co. produced 4070 z.,
while tributors contributed 9470 z. ; making a total of
13540 z. As the co. collars 20 per cent, on tributors'
returns, its income from this source during March was in
the neighborhood of £7OO. The tributors are working in
three or four different levels, and at different points, so
the gold is not being won from any one spot. During the
same period the co.’s South Gippsland property returned
3350 z., bringing up the total return for March to lfiSOoz.
Manager Davies is now going in for prospecting in the
deeper levels of the “Maggie,” and the revenue from the
tributors will more than pay for this work. The shares
at the rubbish price of 2s. and under, lately ruling,
appear to be a very good gamble, when compared with,
say, Boulder Main Reefs at ss. The former makes
“ Maggies ” worth £lO,OOO, while the latter makes Main
Reefs £65,000, and for choice “ Maggies “ have a better
chance, or at least an equally good one.
* * * *
Westralian Government is talking about run-
ning a railway from Mount Magnet to Black Range and
on to Lawlers, 220 miles. Considering that, except the
Great Fingall, there is not one decent mine developed In
the whole Murchison fields., it would be wild extravagance
at present. The Black Range is being boosted ; but
although Hans Irvine has had one or two decent cruslv
ings, there is nothing to justify the belief that the mines
there will differ from those at Magnet, Lake Austin, Cue,
Nannine or Lawlers. Some of the early shows, such as
the New Chum (Magnet), Golconda and Mainland Consols
(near Cue), and the Star of the East (beyond Nannine)
were fabulously rich on the surface, but they are all
practically abandoned. As much as 2000 oz. were dollied
out of as many lbs. of stone at the Last Chance (after-
wards Mainland Consols), but when machinery was
erected and systematic mining was attempted the gold
vanished. The same with the New Chum, Golconda,
Star of the East, and the principal mine at Lawlers ;so
the Murchison isn’t the place for a railway boom.
Continued on page 30).


m
THE “ORIENT”
ONE GUINEA BOOT
Black Calf.
Special.
Price =
21/-
Delivered, Carriage Paid, to Any Address in the States.
DAVID JONES AND CO.
GEORGE aijd BARRACK STS., SYDNEY.
\
The Wonderful Photographs
You frequently see depicting- remarkable incidents and
showing surprising definition of details, are taken with a
Qoerz Anschutz Focal Plane Camera for which
HARRINGTON’S are the Australasian Agents. Horses
at the very instant of clearing a hurdle or nosing the
winning post; trains travelling at high speed ; anything
or anybody standing, walking, jumping, running, or even
flying, can be photographed with this magnificent Camera
at the extraordinary moment of a one-thousandth part ofa
second. Also this same instrument can be used for taking
Portraits, Groups, and Land and Seascape Views. It is
compact and neat, well-made and highly-finished
throughout.
PRICE including Camera with Goerz double Anastigmat
Lens, 6 Double Plate Holders, and best quality
Leather Case :
Size 4J x3J with Series 111. D.A. Lens .. £l7 10 0
~ with Series I. C. Lens .. 16 O O
5x4 with Series 111. D. A. Lens .. 19 O O
~ with Series I. C. Lens .. .. 16 12 6
6| x4J with Series 111. D.A. Lens 23 10 O
~ with Series I. C. Lens .. 21 O O
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.,
Photographic flerchants,
66 King St., Sydney, and 93 Queen St., Brisbane
Society
Canadian
Club
Whisky
A man doesn’t often get his wages put up
because he has been sent to gaol; but the experience
has come the way of the Adelaide lad who was
lately sent up for a harsh 12 months for injuring a
man while endeavoring to drive him away from
his (the lad’s) frail mother. His bosses reckon
now that there is more energy in the youth than
they suspected, and so they have written to him
in gaol telling him that his job and a rise are
waiting for him the day he comes out.
* * * *
If Governors and such like knew that in
many cases the presentations to them from schools
and other institutions of that sort were practically
the result of blackmail—a crawlsome teacher or
other authority forcing contributions from reluc-
tant subjects—would they not set their faces
against the slimy business ?
SHE MEANT TO BE NASTY.
“May I bring along my wife and introduce her?”
“Oh, y es, Mr . Thompson. I’m always delighted to meet any wife of yours.”
Under the Bent railway regime corpses
are carried by ordinary passenger trains to the
new cemetery from Princes Bridge. Bent doesn’t
see anything wrong. The corpse is, after all,
a satisfactory passenger; he at least does not
grumble at the service.
Bishop Clarke, of Melbourne, and other
prominent churchmen talk lengthily and unctuously
of the Australian woman’s duty towards the birth-
rate, but their preaching scarcely accords with
church practice. The other day a leading Mel-
bourne church dismissed a sister in charge of a
branch, with her husband, solely because she was
about, after three years, to help the birth-rate.
* * * *
Mister James dares all birthrate conse-
quences, and publishes this in S.M. Herald :
TVTANTED, in private family, vicinity of D’hurst, by
J™ T ,A ounB ' sin B' le gent., superior BOARD and RESI-
DENCE, good table, comfortable room, no childn. or
other animals ; no hashhouses need ap. Parts, to
45, P. 0., Oxf.-st.
What encouragement is there to Mrs. Hashhouse
or Mrs. P. Guest to increase and multiply when
the solemn Herald thus allows children to be
classed with fleas, cockroaches, and “other
animals ” ?
* * * *
Victoria’s new Governor, Reginald Talbot—
he is very Reggy in style and appearance—is very
tall and very slim. His head is thrown forward
slightly when he moves, and he possesses a pro-
foundly curved nose. Taking him all in all, he
looks like an elongated crook stick, painted red
and black. The demonstration pumped up for his
reception by Minister for Education Sachse was a
sham. .For days before the arrival Sachse pub-
lished in the press the route of march, together
with appeals to the householders to decorate their
premises. The decorations were of the most
meagre and shabby character, and it was only here
and there along the route that a few uninterested
people leaned up against verandah posts.
* * * *
One of the Tory lies told to account for
the defeat of Money M‘Eacharn at the Melbourne
election was that his opponent, Maloney, received
all the votes of the “real lydies ” who hover around
certain parts of Exhibition, Spring, and Lonsdale
streets m flannelette wrappers. All the actual
evidence that has come to light on this point
goes to show that these votes were cast on behalf
of the M‘Eacharn himself. The latest bit of
information on the question came out in the City
Court, when a woman was charged with personat-
ing another at the election. William Henry
Purvis, J.P., stated that on March 18 he went to
a house in Lonsdale-street and “witnessed the
signatures of a number of young women to applica-
tions. for postal votes.” At the close of the case,
Magistrate Pan ton had Purvis recalled, and this
happened (Argus report) :
Mr. Panton.—Who sent for you to go to that place?—l
was sent for from Mr. Malcolm M'Eacharn’s committee-
rooms.
Did you find up there a bunch of these papers ?—No ;
the party who went with me was one of the canvassers.
He brought the papers out of his pocket, one by one, and
called the names.
Accused was committed for trial.
The picture of M’Eacharn’s representative going
round the kind of houses in which “a number of
young women ” congregate, in quest of the vote
which has “ a stake in the country,” is instructive.
So hard up is Dowie’s Zion City that a
proclamation has been issued allowing residents
for the first time to seek work outside. The per-
mission is followed by a hook-nosed injunction to
earn as much as they can, spend as little as thev
can, and bring the rest back to Zion.
AN AUSTRALIAN ABROAD.
AUSTRALIAN (airing his “French”): “ Vous verrai-gee demain?”
NATIVE: “ Eef M'sicur vill speek ze Eenglish I vill bettare understand.”
The death of ex-Queen Isabella has revived
the story of her presentation of a golden altar ser-
vice to the R.C. cathedral of Sydney in 1867, the
year before Her Most Catholic Majesty was moved
from the Spanish throne. All things considered,
it is an incident which the Church can afford to
forget. Isabella’s life was the most conspicuously
bad advertisement that her ancient religion has
received within the past century, and the altar
plate at St. Mary’s, Sydney, is a souvenir thereof.
* * * *
Yic. Chief Justice Madden, of the waxed
moustachios, had a sudden access of common
sense the other day. After haranguing a jury
that for three hours had failed to agree on a verdict,
he casually suggested lunch—it being then 3 p.m.
The twelve cordially acquiesced—and an hour
later returned with a verdict of “Not Guilty.”
Occasionally a man has been hanged because the
jury was considering on an empty stomach.
* * * *
The ornamental Consul business is coming
to a pretty pass when N.S.W. solemnly gazettes
the appointment of a Consul-General for Hon-
duras m Australia and Maoriland. Has Monte
Carlo a Consul-General in Australia ?
• * * *
The other day Sydney magistrate F. S.
Isaacs, who is going away on leave, in a remi-
niscent mood gave an instance of an innocent man
to whom he gave three months. Mr. Isaacs
thought him innocent when he “sent him up,”
and inquiring afterwards, found that he was inno-
cent and had him discharged after some days of
imprisonment. The Evening News tell the yam
and applauds the justice, humanity and sympathy
of the magistrate. Yet it is not so long ago that
the same paper came out in six spasms of
horror a week because Friedman was released
on account of similar misgivings on the part of a
District Court Judgt,
* * * *
Bendigo (Vic.) citizens are very sensitive
about any criticism of the town and its institu-
tions. When Warner’s eleven got back to Hingland
they filled a Daily News with their impressions
of Australia, and amongst other libels mentioned
that the grandstand on the Bendigo ground was
“the usual zinc shed.” The Bendigo town clerk
and the cricket association have been frenzied
with indignation ever since, and a photograph of
the ground and its fine stand has accompanied a
fiery letter to the News. The town clerk, at least,
is quite certain that the London paper, “with the
fairness which characterises. English journalism”
(ahem !), will reproduce the impressive picture on
its leader page.
“ Spring,” in defence of a wronged public
man
The unfortunate Owe’Sullivan is not only burdened with
the odium of his own sinful political ways but has to
hump on his stooped and groaning hack the things which
are not his. When the evening trams to Redfern become
clotted and slow, a fat cynic in a car-corner stops a
moment from cursing the delay in order to give vent
to a large, free sneer at the incomplete walls-
and general dismality of the “most magnificent
railway station in the bloomin’ world,” the listeners nod
approvingly, and remark that there are only six men and
12 boys bursting themselves there now. The chucking
up at Owe’Sullivan of this and similar wild Cohen
doings is justified. Those great, naked, unfinished
works are the rocks ahead for him at Darlington. But
to explain these away will be as nothing to the strain on
his voice when he tries to convince the electors that he is
not responsible for the horrible recent uprooting of the
city footpaths. In the city the “ blocker,” the demi and
the semi-monde, the spieler, the tote-shopper, the bag-
man with his latest obscene story, and all the rest have,
their spirits damped by huge holes and excavations which
expose all the dirty, sickly gaspipes and other intestines
of a great city. The mud, the dodging and tripping,
cause the pretty “ blocker ” to curl her painted lips, grip
her brolly hard, and swear to biff that wretched O’Sulli-
van hard as soon as election comes. They all vaguely
credit poor Sully with these necessary preliminaries to
the municipal job of electric-lighting the city.
* * * *
A travelling Baptist parson held a riverside
dipping at Camden, a few years back, when a
muscular blackfellow handed himself in for
immersion. The parson led the penitent into the
water and started to duck him, but the blackfellow
grabbed him by the neck and struck out vigorously
for the opposite bank 30 yards away, where he
stranded the minister breathless and dripping.
The bridge was a mile away and no boats avail-
able, so a bad-tempered parson, in a damp, white
robe loaded down with lead sinkers, started on a
two mile tramp, while the crowd walked along on
the other bank and cheered vigorously. The black-
fellow made for the town; he wanted to collect
three rums and of tobacco which a base
publican had put up as a swimming trophy.
• * * *
N.S.W. Sheriff advertises for a State exe-
cutioner. Why not keep the billet open till after
the next Parliamentary elections ? The job is a
steady one, and might prove a haven of rest for
some ex-politician.
* * * *
The Yellow Pup has broken out in Ade-
laide, and as the result there has already been one
court case. Until Dill Macky visited the “Holy
City ” a month or two ago sectarianism had prac-
tically no existence there. A sensible community
would keep out Dill-Mackyism by stringent
quarantine.
NEW CRADLE DIRGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Baby, baby bunting
Daddy’s gone a-grunting,
Gone to get a whisky skin
To wrap his nasty temper in.
Mammy wears a frown-o
Since you came to town-o.
Accidental
Care parental!
Bother baby bunting I
Hush-a-bye baby,
Highly improp.
When we grow wiser
Babies will stop.
When the Bab ceases
Birthrate will fall,
Down will come Nation
And cradle and all.
Sing a song of marriage—
Marriage a la mode !
Up-to-date “precautions,”
What do they forbode ?
No more maids in garden
Hanging out the clo'es—
All the world a grave-yard,
General repose.
E. F.


II AIR
I We absol
DESTROYED.
We absolutely guarantee to Permanently
Destioy Superfluous Hair Without Pain or Injury
to the Most Delicate Skin.
Beware of Worthless Counterfeits, but call or write to
THE PARISIAN DREG CO., 8 Bond St., SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY TEN YEARS.
At the request of numerous customers I have
decided to keep my saloon open all days on Wed-
nesdays and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade that runs from G eorge-street to King-st.”
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Unvarying
in
Quality.
Following close on tmit Victorian horror
concerning an aged semi-imbecile who was kept,
almost nucle, in a state of bestiality, by a callous
nurse, comes another scandalous case of a very
similar kind from Geelong. There, an old railway
pensioner, verging on senile decay but otherwise
i|uitesane, was found by an investigating constable
who heard screams “locked in an inner room,
nude, save for a small shirt. The room was reek-
ing with dirt, and the smell was overpowering.”
He had been confined to this evil den for months,
being allowed out only occasionally and then
dressed in a dilapidated skirt of his wife’s. This
lady explained that “she had done the best she
could for him, but that he was very troublesome.”
As the old chap was charged with being a lunatic,
which he manifestly was not, and as he possessed
£l5O worth of property besides 15s. a week
pension, his wife was told she would have to look
after him better in future. That was actually all.
* * * *
Ladies of determined character and of
unfettered speech will be interested to note a
recent English case, when a number of women
were prosecuted under the county by-laws “for
using offensive language to their husbands in their
lc unes.” The magistrates (mere men) declared
their determination to put down the evil, and one
courageous lady had to go to prison for six weeks
because she wouldn’t pay the fine imposed. The
others paid. After six weeks’ imprisonment there
should be some arrears of speech to be worked
off on the husband. Now what avails it to woman
if she gains the whole world of “ rights ” and loses
the privilege of making a few remarks to the old
man ?
MORE DISASTER.
HOTELS IN THE METROPOLIS; THE DECREASE
IN 20 YEARS.
—Daily paper heading.
“Never Rainsh but it poursh. Firsht of all de-
er cash in birth-rate; an’-an’-an’-an’ now wor-
shan ever—decreash in the nummer of hotelsh!
(hie).” (With conviction): “Aushtraliash
gain ’ dawgsh!”
It isn’t wonderful that Miluer shows a
deficit in S’Africa. Not only are the young cubs
who have been foisted upon the service incom-
petent in many cases, but they are shamefully
overpaid. Kruger had one Assistant State
Secretary at £500; Milner has two at £3OOO.
Kruger’s Chief of the Works Department received
£1000; Milner’s £lBOO. The Commissioner of
Native Affairs gets £3OOO instead of £l6OO ; his
two' secretaries £2500 instead of £1100; the
Treasurer £2500 instead of £lOOO, the Mines
Commissioner £2500 instead of £l6OO, the Post-
master £lBOO instead of £lOOO, and so on right
through. Scores of new offices have also been
created carrying salaries up to £2500 And the
Gple who pay have no representation upon the
y which levies the taxes.
The proposal to celebrate St. George’s Day
does not catch on in Australia. Public opinion
reckons that the dishonest bacon contractor has
already more memorial than he deserves on the
rare and gladsome sovereign.
* * * *
One “ Montgomery B. Gibbs ” has been
lecturing about Australia in Chicago. Out of a
long series of thrilling yarns two specimens are
worth recording:—
“The new Government railway station in Sydney, a
town with half a million population, is an example of how
the system is worked ; already $5,000,000 (over £1,000,000)
has been spent on its construction and only one story is
up. Gangs of men are kept at work on it, building and
tearing down. Thousands of men are paid high wages to
make a pretence of working for the Government, simply
because they belong to the Union.
“ A case in point is that of a Swedish Sloyd teacher im-
ported to teach her art in the public schools. There was
not a Sloyd teacher in the country ; yet she was deported
under the Exclusion Act.”
Australia won’t worry much about the expenditure
on Sydney railway station being multiplied by
five, and the 100 men being magnified into
“ thousands,” and it will only laugh at the
imaginary Swedish female who was “sent back,”
but to be told that there are no “ Sloyd” teachers
in Australia, when the country is so full of “Sloyd”
that we are dead tired of hearing of the thing—
that is too much. This country will not allow
mud to be thrown at its “ Sloyd ” with impunity.
Unless the United States apologises, Australia
will ring up U.S. vice-consul Phineas Q. Bangs, or
whatever his name may be, and ask him through
the telephone how the lynching industry is getting
along.
* * * *
Chief Railway Commissioner Oliver struck
the sound economical key when he told a deputa-
tion the other day :
If the boys and girls, mentioned by one of the deputa-
tion as paying all their earnings in tram and train fares,
were underpaid, this was a matter for their employers,
not the Railway Commissioners, to remedy.
This wants to be driven in. Many workers obtain
concessions from the State that come to be con-
cessions not to themselves but to their employers.
State concessions to workers are like tips to
waiters —the boss profits.
* * * *
“ Petramos ” : How some folk crawl. At
an Adelaide boarding-house a girl rushed to
the window. “Oh, look!” she cried, rap-
turously. The mother followed. “ Oh, how
sweet! ” she simpered. I expected a beautiful
sunset, or at least a pretty gown, but only saw a
small, very ordinary sort of poodle which, though,
belonged to Government House, waddling across
the road. “Where?—what?” I gasped. “Oh,
it’s his dog—Sir George’s dog,” said the daughter.
“The darling!” said the mother —“I wonder
where it’s going?” Just then a large laborer
came along and fell over the blue-blooded pup in
his haste. “The wretch!” the mother said ; “I
sometimes wonder whether the lower classes are
responsible for their actions.”
* * * *
Perth (W.A.) has started a Highland
Brigade, which apparently cannot decide on going
the whole Caledonian hog or thistle in its uniform.
The men wear kilts, but top off with an ordinary
kharki tunic and a slouched felt hat with a chin-
strap. When the hat (as in some cases) is adorned
with a long, straight feather, the whole rig is
strongly reminiscent of the costume of the barrel-
organ monkey.
* * * *
Some positions besides those of Governor-
General and State Governor that Australians are
debarred from filling Admiral of the Australian
Fleet, Commander, Captain or Lieutenant of any
ship of war of that fleet, General commanding
the Australian land forces. These positions are
reserved for Cold Country aspirants, the only hope
for a young Australian being to doff his nationality,
go to England and become a John Bull.
* * * *
In most out-back towns the grades of
society are as puzzling as a mining co.’s balance-
sheet. Counting from the bottom, the Chinaman
is the base of the superstructure. Next is the
aboriginal. Then come the ladies of a mercenary
disposition, and after them the ladies who are not
mercenary, but are—ahem ? Then come 3 the
town drunk and loafer. The next section is made
up of respectable servant girls, and men who are
called Bill. Then follow small farmers, publicans,
and minor tradesmen, who are treated with dis-
tant courtesy by the next grades—the big store-
keepers, the civil servants, the bank officials, and
the doctors and lawyers. These are known as
“silver-tails,” and in turn are subordinate to the
pastoralists, or “ gold-tails.”
It’s a cold day when the lawyer can’t catch
anything. Up in Queensland he has just been
picking over the bones of Tattersall’s big Mel-
bourne Cup sweep in Carbine’s year. It was a
Thursday Island Jap syndicate that landed the
big prize that time: and Mr. and Mrs. Tamiji
promptly left with their share of the boodle.
Mrs. Tammy got back ; but Tammy lingered
behind and died. Mrs. Tammy died two years
afterwards. As Tammy left no will, and didn’t die
in Australia, there were enormous possibilities of
argument and costs in the case ; and, as none of
those possibilities seem to have been unduly
neglected in the eight or nine years that have
passed since the last of the Tainijis was laid to
rest, there isn’t much of the Carbine money left to
.go to anyone.
The Circuit Court at Goulburn (N.S.W.)
lately ran against a remarkable snag. A woman
was charged with an illegal practice, and a man
was charged with hiring her to do it. The woman
pleaded not guilty ; the man guilty. The woman
was acquitted ; and the riddle was what to do
with a man who had pleaded guilty as an accessory
to a felony which a jury had decided hadn’t been
committed. The Crown Prosecutor didn’t know,
and the Judge didn’t know either; and so the
tangle was sent down to the Attorney-General to
struggle with.
* • * •
Melbourne City Council has money to
waste, seemingly. It is proposed in some quarters
to furnish the gaud Mayor with an official
carriage and pair at a cost of £250 per year. It
only wants an opening like that to lead to the
installation of the plush-rigged, wigged, and
powdered flunky of bumble-ridden “ Hold
Hingland,” and then an annual mayor’s circus
will evolve as a matter of course.
* * * *
Noticed on the W.A. goldfields that in the
declining towns the churches flourish ; in the
progressing centres they are almost neglected.
People seem to turn their faces to the tabernacle
only when Mammon has turned his back on them.
* * * *
“W. Watson” ; Does it not seem wrong
that a man arrested in Sydney on suspicion of
having committed an offence on the S.A., border,
or in some other far away place, and sent up for
trial hundreds of miles from where arrested, and
then proved not guilty, should have to paddle his
own canoe back to where the clutches of the law
fell upon him ? I know one man who was in gaol
three months, or near about that time, and was
taken 500 miles to stand his trial (the three
months were done while awaiting trial). He was
promptly acquitted. A few hours after the trial
I saw the Judge departing behind a spanking
four-in-hand team, and the prisoner leaving per
boot, with 25 days’ tramp before him, and a fair
prospect of being run in for vagrancy Qn the way.
On 23rd April, when the shriek of the
Federal crisis was loud in the land, and every
other paper was howling in the forefront of the
battle, Sydney Evening News came out with a
leading article on “ Habits,” and breathed holy
calm in this fashion :
Perhaps very few men have noticed how many other
men invariably put on their left stockings before their
right or vice versa; while there are those who practice
the rule of turn and turn about in this performance, and
hardly any two men put on their stockings, whether right
or left, in the same way. There is always a shade of
delicate distinction as refined as the tints of a well-graded
painting. As to the habits of women in respect to the
putting on of stockings, it need scarcely be said that that
is a subject which must be left to women journalists alto-
gether.
And, after all, most men wear socks.
* * * *
Max Beerbohm on the British refreshment
room:—
Britannia owns nothing more crudely and inalienably
Britannic than her Buffets. The barmaids are but in-
carnations of her own self, thinly disguised. The stale
buns and the stale sponge-cakes must have been baked,
one fancies, by her own heavy hand. Of her everything
is redolent. She it is that has brewed the unpalatable
coffee, bottled the bitter beer, cut—cut with her trident
—the thick stale sandwiches.
* * * *
Victoria’s Chief Justice Madden has no
sent# of proportion. At Ballarat the other day
he poured admonitions, reproaches, warnings, tre-
mendous adjectives and a whole rain of dic-
tionaries for ten minutes on a pensioner who had
been mixed up in a stabbing affray when drunk,
and then the sentence was 12 months. The horri-
fied defendant thought from Madden’s eloquence
that he was going to get amputation of the head
at the very least.
THE ADELAIDE TEETOTALLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pr. Ramsay Smith, Adelaide City Coroner, said recently
that “evidence had shown that some teetotal drinks sold
•; n Adelaide would make people hopelessly drunk.”
What makes your husband look so pale
And sour and leaden-eyed?
“He is a slave to ginger-ale.”
The patient woman sigh; d.
What makes that man go ravin for
The means of suicide ?
“’Tis lemonade he’s craving cr,”
The constable replied.
What makes that decent looking man
With whiskers, lose his head
And talk like an old harridan ?
“ ‘Tis hop-beer ” —so they said.
What are you doing, little mai. ,
With smile so bright and swea ?
“ Collecting for the Adelaide
Teetotallers’ Retreat.”
C.R.
A SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thou would’st love me, pretty maid—
Thou must not.
When I leave thee thou wilt be
Soon forgot.
Just for all thy dainty charms
I could take thee in mine arms,
Kiss thine eyes and kiss thy brow,
Kiss thy lovely rose-lips—now !
But to-morrow —ah ! to-morrow —
Thou would’st weep in lonely sorrow.
Thou art young and fair to see, dear,
I’ll not have thee weep for me, dear.
VIC.
ETHEL COZ[?]NS.
THE PARSON AND THE PRELATE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/SAW a Parson on a bike —
A parody on things —
His coat-tails flapped behind him like
A pair of caudal icings.
His coat was of the shiny green,
His hat was rusty brown ;
He was a weird, wild sight, I ween,
Careering through the town.
What perched him on a wheel at all,
And made him race and rip ?
Had he, perchance, a sudden call
To some rich rectorship l
He’d no such call; he raced and ran
To kneel and pray beside
The bedside of a dying man,
Who poor as Peter died.
I saw a Prelate, plump and fine,
Who gleamed with sanctity ;
He was the finest-groomed divine
That you would wish to see.
His smile was bland; his air was grand;
His coat ivas black, and shone
As did the tents of Kedar and
The robes of Solomon.
And in a carriage fine and fair
He lounged in lordly ease —
It was a carriage and a pair —
And nursed his gaitered knees.
And whither went he, and what for,
With all this pomp and show ?
He went to see the Governor,
And that is all I know.
But in a vision of the night,
When deep dreams come to men,
I saw a strange and curious sight —
The Prelate once again.
He sat ungaitered, and undone,
A picture of dismay —
His carriage was too broad to run
Along the Narrow Way !
But, with his coat-tails flapping like
Black caudal wings in wrath,
I saw the Parson on the bike
Sprint up the Shining Path.
CREEVE ROE.


£
V
Liqueur.
Peter F. Heering
a
Est. 1818
COPENHAGEN
BEAUTY IS POWER.
“VALAZE,” Dr. Lykuski’s RUSSIAN SKIN FOOD,
will make you beautiful. It is absolutely the best skin
cleanser, guaranteed to remove freckles, tan sunburn,
wrinkles, acne, blackheads, all skin impurities; restores
flabby muscles and starved tissues. Valaze will improve
tire worst skin in one month. Just try one jar, and see
for yourself.
NELLIE STEWART SAYS : “ Have used skin prepara-
tions from America, London, Paris ; paid fabulous prices
for some, but nothing has proved half as beneficial as (be
Russian Skin Food, Valaze. It is absolutely the very best
skin preparation I ever used. Can never praise it
enough.”
Price 3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d. extra. Guide to
Beauty, 3d. Leading Chemists, or direct from Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, 293 Collins St., Melbourne.*
m
THE LADIES’
MASSAGE
SOAP
H
m
X)
PURE
FRAGRANT
REFRESHING
SV
UsK
RAINCOATS.
“e raVen ET'TES
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
▲
. THE MOST PERFECT
FITTING CORSETS
m
mm
RD.
cXfUC'
Lt
<§
yefwaee'
i>D.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 3, 1904.
My Dear Arini —■
Engagement of Miss Maud Jeffries, leading
woman of the Tree Co., to Mr. James Osborne,
son of a lately-deceased wool-king, is announced
from Melbourne. Mr. Osborne, who is a very
young man, has been playing minor parts in the
Tree Co.’s pieces to keep near to his ladylove.
An elder brother is married to eldest daughter of
Madden, C. J. Miss Jeffries’ prospective husband
is not a rich man. In a financial sense she is not
making half such a good match as the Ethel
Mollison lady who wedded Mr. Kelly. But it is
no use trying to compete with a widow in such
matters.
Winifred, sixth daughter of Mr. T. A. Dibbs of
North Sydney, general manager of the Com-
mercial Banking Company of Sydney, was
married last week to Mr. Walter Mitchell, one of
the Murrayside sheep men. Her bridal gown,
fashioned at David Jones’, was a much talked-of
creation of ivory chiffon over silk. The full
bodice, with a lot of silver thread and point de
gaze , was brought into a deep Marie Antoinette
belt of satin, sprinkled with fine silver buttons.
The skirt was of the new, round shape, free from
the waist, and embroidered with masses of arum
lilies in chiffon velvet, and trailing leaves and
stems of glittering silver. The paternal Dibbs
made an awful lot of money out of the Rocks
Resumptions sales. A man with such a regiment
of daughters needs a lot of money. But it’s only
fair to Papa Dibbs to say that he gives large sums
in charities. £lOOO to the North Shore Hos-
pital and another £lOOO to the Consumptive
Homes fund are among his recent givings.
Maoriland mothers whose names are on the
Govt. House list, and who have a large number of
children under ten years of age, now look at their
little Normans and Mays with a new kind of
pride. Lady Plunket, the new Governer’s wife,
has six children, the eldest nine years of age, and
as the whole quiverful are going to M.L. with
their parents, M.L. mothers’ perspectives are
filled with children’s parties, to which, Of course,
Norman and May will be asked. Six. Vice-regal
infantile birthdays to be “kept up,” let alone
school breakings-up and etceteras ! The young
white Maoris will get extra brushing of their curls
and more attention to their manners henceforth.
Baronet Rupert Clarke has gone off in his yacht,
bound for Pago Pago, where the red hibiscus
glows and the dusky maidens wear floral clothes.
The craft looks like a comic opera vessel for such a
journey. It doesn’t seem stout enough to with-
stand the attack of a ferocious whale, and as for
all the wet weather it will have to meet, will the
cupboards stand the strain ?
An advt. from S.M.H. :
YZJ.ENT., good position, desires acquaintance young
'A Lady, view to matrimony. Nero, Haymarket P.O.
What an attractive alias with which to woo “a
young lady.” Nero was such a marital success !
Another descendent of the third Governor of
N.S.W., in the person of Mr. Hannibal King, of
Lismore, eldest son of Mr. Essington King, is
listed for matrimony. Engaged to Miss Eacie
Chichester, only daughter of the late Dr. F.
Deshon, of Beechworth.
A passenger on the Mongolia writing from
Fremantle says she and others on board are favor-
ably impressed by the Dowies—Prophet and
consort. They sit apart, hand in hand, and don’t
have anything to say to anyone outside the
Zionites. Elijah’s typewriter girl clicks all day
from shorthand notes. Elsie Moore, late of J. C.
Williamson coihpany, is reckoned ship’s belle.
“The silver-jackal kaross, lined with claret-
colored velvet,” given to Ada Crossley in S’Africa,
turns out to be a rug. I had an idea that a kaross
was a club studded with nails, and that the Zulu
police used it against kaffir skulls. All the
Crossley co. are back in the Fog. Benno Scherek
went on to see his son, who is studying in Leipzig.
Miss Florence Fuller, who has had a canvas
“Sea Breezes” hung in an English Ex., was a
pupil of Julian Ashton. Sydneysiders used to like
her flower pieces. Miss Fuller is at present in
W.A.
Marion Drewe, the Sydney girl-artist who went
hence some three years ago to work in America,
has evidently been successful. A ’Frisco paper
mentions her as having completed the interior
decoration of Ye Liberty Playhouse in Oakland
(Cal.), which is shortly to be opened. The central
figures in the decorative scheme of the ceiling are
those of two women painted in glowing colors,
each figure measuring nine feet in length. There
is also a flight of five-feet-long Cupids. Miss
Drewe had some well-praised work in the Grafton
Galleries in London.
A returned M.L. tourist comments favorably
upon the fact that so many women there ride
astride. From the windows of his train as it ran
through the country he saw riders wearing what
was apparently an ordinary skirt. It might have
been a divided skirt—but anyhow there was a
female’s foot on either side of the horse.
Mrs. Laidley Mort chaired the last meeting of
>St. Vincent’s Hospital Ball committee. Ball
occurs next Tuesday. Governor-General,-his con-
sort and her diamonds will be present. Mrs. J. C.
Williamson and the leading members of Her
Majesty’s Co., dressed in 18th century fashion,
will dance a minuet. Hon. secs., Mrs. G. Lane
Mullins and Mrs. Tom Dalton.
Under the style of “ Maxime and Co.” a clever
daughter of a well-known Sydney family has set
up as a blouse-maker in the Victoria Arcade.
One of the funniest things about the Jap.
wrestlers at Fitzgeralds’ circus, from a woman’s
point of view, is their management of their hair-
pins. The snaky locks work loose, and the Japs,
take out the pins and hold them in their mouths
whilst they re-adjust the coils. The way of a
European man with a hairpin is weird, but the
Jap. man handles his as naturally as a woman.
Concerning those circus ponies : it is a lesson
to feminine humans to see the glossy manes,
and satin skins and long eyelashes of the prads.
They are marvels of intelligence, shampooing,
and polishing, and they look two-year-olds yet,
though I believe that many of them are older than
the eldest Fitzgerald brother himself. As for the
royal Bengal tigress—if you want assorted thrills,
stare at her till her eyes glare with green flame
and she lashes her striped hide with her tail and
roars something to the effect that she’d like to be
picking your wish-bone.
Three amusing tableaux on topical items in
Sydney Uni.’s annual commem. procession.
Seated in a neat buggy was a capital copy of Prof.
Anderson Stuart—iron-grey hair, Roman nose,
shining top hat, etc., and by the figure’s side a
handsome “nurse” bowed and smiled to the
populace. A legend, “No Australian need
apply,” further elucidated the picture. The other
skit showed a tall academician striding under the
red robes of a Cardinal; at his side paced a dour
gentleman typifying Dill Macky, with calves that
would tempt a fox-terrier’s teeth. Behind the
Eair walked a good old-fashioned Devil, hoofs,
orns, tail, and pitchfork. The third item was an
empty cradle marked “ Not wanted.”
That superior person the honorable Something
De Bathe, who married Mrs Langtry, is living
quietly in M.L. on a run (they don’t say station in
M.L.) with a brother.
Mrs. Harry Henderson, who a while ago was a
Darling Pointer of some years standing, has re-
turned to the stage and will appear in Mr. J. C.
Williamson’s new Comedy Co. Mrs. Henderson’s
re-appearance will be welcomed by a host of friends
who remember her as Maggie Knight.
Mrs. Fenwick Miller, long known as an authority
on divers social questions, including dress-reform,
has been in print to the effect that “men are re-
sponsible for all women’s follies.” Men prefer,
she says, small waists and long, dragging skirts,
and women dress to please men. No, they don’t,
Missus Miller ! They dress to please themselves
and to rile other women. The useful hygienic
gown is rarely as graceful as the long, trail-
ing robe that modifies or conceals defects
of figure and feet. Concerning small waists:
I never met a man who confessed to admiration
for pinched waists, but nine out of ten men who
write verse about the girl of their heart, real or
imaginary, ring in the slender waist as one of the
items of their adoration. That and small feet.
The girl who walks in verse must do it on nothing
larger than number threes. All the same, a pinched
waist does not mean a slender one, and a number
four foot in a number three shoe doesn’t walk —it
limps. Mrs. Miller may be conceded a point or
two in the waist and shoe question on account of
those versifiers, but only a point or two. The girl
whose shoes are very tight is suffering too much
to remember any poetry.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“A rally of the social forces swamped official-
dom at the swearing-in of Governor Talbot the
other day. Melbourne’s two Bishops sat cheek by
jowl and joked in a spirit of seemly moderation.
The barrel-figure of Yes-No Reid obtruded itself
upon the direct line of Alfred Deakin’s vision, but
that polished Corinthian from his seat behind, was
not completely shut out from sight, for he bobbed
from side to side incessantly, and nodded with an
over-done cheerfulness to friends. A little cheer-
fulness under some circumstances is all right, but
methinks Alfred doth cheerful too much.
“ The Talbots, as they appeared there, might be
brother and sister and twins at that. A
cold, sharp, aristocratic pair, with eyes for dis-
tances and probably a joint talent for mathe-
matics. As they stood to attention for one
second on the President’s throne-step, wait-
ing for the swear, 20 cameras clicked on the
soldierly pair. A feeling of chill followed.
Fancy frolicking in a two-step before these Vice-
regals ! Sir Reggie himself looks equal to
drawing his sword on the man who’d joke in
his presence. Not even his lady’s toilet held out
any hope of a secret soft corner in her manners.
It was a severe, cold blue garb—with no haber-
dashery tricks—no riotous stitcheries anywhere.
It was a rempve or two from a uniform.
“The Talbot dame, in fact, owns the kind of
face that has come to be labelled ‘ quite English.’
Correct, almost classical, profile, soft prematurely-
grey hair, clear blue eyes. May have been a beauty
once, though rather thin and worn nowadays. Said
faults are accentuated by English mode of dress.
She landed in close-fitting gown of periwinkle-
blue, and hat to match. No lace, furs, feathers or
gems to coax or dazzle beholders ! Australian
sartorial system seemed seductive and subtle by
comparison with this simplicity. Dame Forrest,
•for instance, was all in girlish white, belaced and
"embroidered. Her white hat, worn coquettishly
askew, topped a toilette which would have done
for a frockv bride’s first public appearance after
the sacrifice. Of course, Halfway House is the
haven of successful dressers. Just because some
slim women emphasise their angularity, one
doesn’t advise the sex en masse to frock a quarter-
of-a-century behind its years.
“Miss Grosvenor, who comes labelled ‘Lady
Talbot’s niece,’ is likely to reclaim vice-regal
quarters from barrack discipline. She looks
smart and lets her thatch run a bit wild. One
feels glad of her —so glad that we shall very likely
exaggerate the feeling into an excessive admiration
and fondness. She wore a hopeful blue with lots
of sporty white braid. The head-gear sprouted
into some very live-looking roses of a pinkish hue.
Before and after the proceedings Miss Grosvenor
showered wide, girlish ‘ yes-we’ve-got-here ’ smiles
on the people she had met down the Bay.
“A fellow-passenger of the Talbots describes
the Marmora’s trip out as the dullest in his
memory. The chill of the noble pair stole all over
the voyage and froze the giddy girls’ spirits. The
usual ship capers were cut off and the programmed
amusements grew prim. Never once on the long
trip did the rigidity of the Governor-elect relax.
The Talbots brought their dignity to the deck
chairs, and a rag-cap softened down none of the
Talbots’ pride. They might have been at devotions
in a front pew all the voyage.
“Mrs. Edward Miller went to great expense
and prodigious trouble to create an effect at the
Governor’s official christening. She was rewarded
by being the most persistently stared-at of all the
dressy dames. Her sartorials were in lilac tones
—but it was the fashion in which they foamed, cas-
caded, and gambolled in a hundred subtle coquetries
that captured the eye. Miss Ida Jenkins—
the snug little daughter of Never-Surrender
George—made a re-appearance after a long stay
at Colombo, and excitedly related wonderful yarns
of the ‘go’ of that place. No wonder, she says,
that the fascinated touriste drops her bandbox and
her tooth-brush for a time at the spicy port. The
hotels are packed with the smartest, the roaming
bachelor is about in profusion, and gaiety is of the
tropical kind.
“S’Malcolm’s abrupt recovery from a lot of
doctor, and his spruce hosting at Thursday’s
ceremony to welcome the new State Gover-
nor, recalls the gout of Walpole, which
generally ‘skipped off in a minuet step.’ It would
have amounted to an affront to have ever so deli-
cately hinted at a recent need of lubricating oil or
at a rusty joint to so alert and virile a person. The
coming of the Yice-Regals was preceded by a
dingy detachment of City Fathers—the extraor-
dinary likeness of Alderman Ham in his slack
black robe to Elijah of Zion occupying most of
the gallery attention.
“Smart girls are describing the Talbot ‘suite’
as ‘ swampy,’ and certainly one has seen snappier
troupes. Private sec. Fitzpatrick, a relic of the
Sydenham Clarke regime, conducting the pre-
sentations at State Parliament House, was
summed-up as an inferior herald to either
Wallington or Nevill. There’s a fine. art in
conveying by subtle voice-inflexion to uninitiated
principals the fact that the approaching citizen is
a pure Merino, with prerogative rights to fleece-
tickling, or, on the other hand, merely a goat, to
be stroked and shooed on. The Fitzpatrick’s
colleague, Captain Buchanan, of the Seaforth
Highlanders, is a blonde, callow youth, all plaidie
and cairngorms above the waist, and tartans
below.
“ Among those who filed past the presentation-
dais at the swearing-in was an old politician, dim of
sight, and uncertain as to locality, so that he
drifted aimlessly by, without noticing his new
Ex.’s outstretched hand. The Talbot, with the
best intentions, grabbed the veteran and swung
him round to pump-handling posture. Kindly
meant, but the aged one looked mortified.
“At the swearing-in the Cliveden widow, in
deep mourning for her step son-in-law, relieved
her sartorial sadness only by a dangling gold
heart pendant, while she cheered the situation
otherwise by chatting to George Reid. In the
galleries, the Landale sisters showed their pretty
faces, framed by pale-blue scoop bonnets, and
further aimed at old-time effect by means of short-
waisted gowns with elbow-sleeves and tuckered
baby-necks.
“ Three of the resident doctors of Melbourne
Hospital have been engaged to nurses this year.
And the doctors that get into the hospital are the
flower of the junior profession, if brilliant exam-
ination successes go for anything. One of this
medical trio wins extra lustre as a parti from the
fact that he was a Felton legatee.
“Some of the newly-appointed Ministers have
very charming wives; that is known. Perhaps
all of them have ; we can only decide when they
come before the public. Mrs. Higgins is rather
erudite, as dignified and as staid as her spouse.
Mrs. Hugh Mahon is a sweet dame with that
perfectly gentle type of face that turneth away
wrath and inviteth peace. She was a Miss
L’Estrange, of French extraction, and the most
brilliant pupil that the Vaucluse Convent, Rich-
mond, ever turned out. She is not much con-
cerned with the social world.
“The poetic atmosphere of ‘Stonington’ is
now likely Jo be lost. The Clarkes had notions of
communing with Art and Music. Their Browning
and Arnold cult, their ’cello symphonies, their
easel efforts, and their Chopin studies, and the
sight of Miss Mignonette Clarke treading the
garden paths with ‘Endymion’ gave a poetic
feeling to the place. When the Waxcellency
transpired he maintained the sweet dalliance with
the Muses. But with the Talbots life will run
on prosaic paths.
“ There was a pathetic announcement last week
that the Rose Society show was ‘ off ’ on account of
the despoiling season. The blooms had drooped
early in the season for want of sun, then the sun
arriving (tardily enough), for want of moisture.
A bald announcement that the show was abandoned
pierced the hearts of the Ruskinites among us. It
represented a tragedy in the beauty world, an
aesthetic plague and visitation.
“ Two farewell receptions kept the decks of the
China, last Tuesday, in a fuss and fashionable
flurry. The departing ones were Mrs. Lumsden
(Surgeon Fitzgerald’s eldest daughter) and Miss
Beatrice Smith, both deck-clad in homespun and
scutty grey, and flower-armed.
“At Marshall Hall’s Concert last Saturday,
with a curious lack of consideration for the ears of
the Elect, the Vice-Regal people were brought
down from the usual balcony niche and disposed
about in a half circle within the closest range of
the orchestral batteries. They stood the fire
wonderfully well, and no one was observed to put
wadding in a vice-regal ear. But all round was
an oasis of vacant chair, the fondest votary of
Marshall Hall’s tumultuous music removing
a distance away. Some of the more know-
ing took up positions right to the rear of
the hall, where the spent storm of reed, brass, and
string might fall on the ear with less strident
clamor and more subtle melody. At the interval
Lady Talbot dismissed an aide in some haste with
a message. The onlookers expected to see the
party back-pedalled into a less stormy place, but
it was not so, and the orchestra resumed its
attack, with the lean, black figure of the Master
swaying excitedly on his perch, the vice-regals
suffering stolidly below.
“The brilliant aria supplied by Miss Elsie
Davies as a breathing space in the orchestral
storm was the better enjoyed for the replacing of
her usual Empire garb with a modern modish
turn-out. This soprano is too fond of encasing her
b ilk in a flowing robe of the Empire period, to the
disturbance of the feminine sense of the con-
gruous. Her Saturday rig was a cream confection,
in which she gave just comfortable assurance of
avoirdupois. The ‘ Der Freischutz ’ aria was well
done, and the ‘widowed’ nightingale’s piteous
tale (the amorous twitterer in weeds is a quaint
notion) was made to croon with a sweet intelli-
gence.
“ Lady Northcote, who wore a summery cream
to the concert, passed along her compliments to
Miss Davies for her performance and an assurance
of future interest. As the singer shortly trims her
sails for a voyage to Germany, the Northcote sym-
pathy has a chance of assuming a tangible form
before then.
“Mrs. Eccles, the pretty, musical wife of the
Collins-street doctor, will soon be back in Mel-
bourne. After two years in Germany, she is
spending a few months in Paris with her two little
daughters. The latter say that they can now
speak foreign languages better than English ; but
their mother has been devoted to music all the
time —lessons from great masters, all-day prac-
tising on grand-pianos, concerts or operas every
night. That’s what Europe means to the musical
enthusiast. Mrs. Eccles, who was a good musician
when she came from Sydney as a bride, pursued
her piano studies under Marshall-Hall guidance,
and became inspired with Conservatorium ideals.
“Miss Slapoffski, the damsel whose appearance
was made the bone of contention in the Slapp-
Musgrove case, has been singing in W.A. under
engagement to Rickards. That lawsuit was a
stroke of luck to the foreign-featured Miss. Ever
since, she’s been advertised as a ‘ draw ’ at Pleasant
Sunday Afternoons and other entertainments, and
has been rushed with offers of work.
“ A great feminine secret is cruelly giVen away
by Miss Rose Musgrove in the ‘ Marriage of
Kitty.’ Before the eyes of the audience she lets
down her locks, throws a fine chestnut artificial
switch at her godfather, drags her wrecked tresses
into a spikey plait—an incn or two in length
jerks her skirt back to front, bags out her shirt
blouse, and finally evolves an expression to suit
the dress of Withering Virginity. She is a horror,
a scarecrow. Thus is the secret of the importance
of dress revealed. When Rose appears subse-
quently like a Gainsborough study the male audi-
ence snorts. This sort of revelation ought to be
stopped by the Censor, or somebody, in the
interests of that much-discussed birth-rate. How
are bachelors going to be tempted into matrimony, if
it is suggested to them that the essential difference
between a young, fair and plump charmer and a
dour virago is an artificial switch of hair (price
two guineas) and a well-hung skirt ?
“ A suburban girl has broken off her engagement
on the ground of the young man’s dislike for
putting his passion in ink. He absolutely refused
to send any kind of love screed. A wire, he
argued, sufficed. Appeals failed to move him into
written canticles of devotion. So the engage-
ment-has been declared ‘ off.’ The wisdom of that
young man is to be commended. Wrote Balzac
(who might have written a Bible of Love
had he chosen), ‘ Never make love to a woman
through an ink-bottle,’ and the precept should
be ever obeyed. A woman who wants letters is
either anxious to usq them as evidence in a law-
court or as a foundation for future reproaches (in
which case she is a designing little minx and not
to be encouraged); or sighs for them out of pure
sentimental silliness; and such derangements of
the sentimental faculty ought not to be pampered.
“In the ‘Darling of The Gods,’ when Julius
Knight and Maud Jeffries get to Heaven, the
former appears as an angel, minus his tonsure and
Mongol- top-knot. His hair wears its everv-day
bandolined, beauty-man aspect and his white robes
are Grecian. Miss Jeffries, too, enters Paradise,
no longer Jap but Grecian. Rather an interesting
discussion might be raised as to the fashions to be
followed in the happy hereafter. I don’t know
that I quite hold with the Greek style for all of us
promiscuously, say Tommy Bent and John Forrest.
Archbishop Carr is too cute a man to wear any-
thing unbecoming to his style of beauty, so I
suppose he’ll decline old Athenian drapery on the
ground that to prescribe plumage peculiar to any
one nation would be another wrong to Ireland.
“ Melb. cliques, to the last, would have it that
violiniste Lilian Foulis was a niece of Lord
Rosebery, or failing that, Lord Roberts. The
bonnie lassie, herself, made no secret of the fact
that her uncle was neither the one nor t’other, but
Lord Robertson, an eminent lawyer, now one of
the Scotch Lords of Appeal.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENHI.


BRONCHIAL ASTHMA CURED
STATUTORY
m
DECLARATION.
“I, Andrew James Dunlop, do solemnly and sincerely declare that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People cured me of chronic
Asthma, after being an invalid for 16 years. I caught a heavy cold 20 years ago, through walking six miles in the pouring rain. A
month later I began to cough and wheeze on the chest every night. Then the Asthma grew worse and worse. Every night a horrible
smothering feeling came on. I moaned and struggled and gasped for breath. My nostrils were completely stopped up with Catarrh.
' - It took two hours’ continuous hawking and coughing before I could draw even one breath through my nose. I had to get out of bed
and sit bolt upright every night about midnight to stop myself from suffocating. The family lost their sleep nightafter night attending
to me. I never had a sound night’s sleep in bed for 16 years. The coughing fits nearly lifted the top off my head. My forehead
burned, and there were boring, aching pains in the back of my head and shoulders. Sometimes, when smothering in the house, I
groped my way into the cold night air, where I could breathe enough to keep myself alive. Often I prayed for death, while mv good
wife went on her knees to pray 7 for relief for me. I was worn,to a shadow. Every breath I drew 7 made me wheeze as if there were rusty
machinery in my chest. In these 20 years I spent £250 on doctors and medicines. Then Mr. I. J. Eden made me take Dr Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People, as they cured him of Indigestion and Rheumatism. He is one of the best-known men here in Heatherton.
I w 7 rote to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. for advice, and they said to take the pills regularly and to use Nasal Balm for the Catarrh.
They pointed out that Asthma was a strange mixture of nervous trouble and chest weakness —and they showed me how cood blood was
bound to strengthen both my lungs and my nerves. I followed their advice, and in eight weeks I was completely cured.” This was four
years ago, and I have been working hard on the farm ever since. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills and Nasal Balm have cured me of chronic
Asthma and nasal Catarrh after 20 years of misery, and made a strong, robust, hard-working man of me. I declare this to be the truth
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help me God.—(Signed) ANDREW JAMES DUNLOP. Declared at Heatherton this
10th day of November, a.d. 1903, before me—(Signed).Robert Mills, J.P.”
MEDICAL ADVICE FREE.—If in doubt, describe your case and write direct to Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place Svdnev Honest medical advice
will be then sent you, free of all charge. Dr. Williams’Pink Pills are sold by retailers and by the Dr. Williams’Medicine Co *2s 9d per box 6 boxes 15s 3d.
post free. Nasal Balm, 4s. 6d. per bottle, post free. ’ ‘
t
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Justice Barton has now two sons
associates to Judges : one sits beneath him, the
other beneath Arbitration Justice Cohen.
C.M.G. is still Sydney colloquial for
“ Corner of Market and George-streets,” in allu-
sion to the pub. which two generations of the
Roberts, C.M.G., family has kept at that spot.
Dr. Kevin O’Doherty, the Irish patriot of
’4B, and his wife, the patriotic verse-maker of that
period, are reported to be, in their .old age, doing
none too well in Brisbane.
Archbishop Saumarez Smith, the gaitered
prelate of Sydney who has just turned into his
69th year, is not yet a weeping orphan. His
father still lives, aged 95 years.
It has just dawned on envious K.C.M.
Geese that Northcote’s latest decoration entitles
him to be K.G.G.P.O.H.S. J.J.E. That is some-
thing like a raid on the alphabet !
Dr. Hobhouse, who was C. of E. Bishop of
Nelson (Maoriland) 1858-1866, has died in Eng-
land, aged 86 years. There are still seven Aus-
tralasian retired bishops in England.
“But wait,” says a recent ’Frisco
Examiner, warningl ••, “till Dr. Dowie gets
back and runs for Congress ! He ought to run
well—he’s getting ,so much practice in Australia
these days.”
Montague, of the Red Indian Life Insur-
ance Assessment Office, is in form and face almost
a replica of Yes-No Reid ; and he seems to have
had about the same ideas in life assurance as Reid
in politics.
Adye Douglas, the 90-year-old Tasmanian
Parliamentarian, is father of the Australian Bar,
having been admitted in March, 1839, in which
year he arrived in what was then known as Van
Diemen’s Land.
The first day’s parade of the new Aus-
tralian Ministry was a feast for sensible eyes.
There were no bay-windowed personages in absurd
clothes, but a row of neat and unpretentious men
—plain brown men.
Still another Bendigo (Vic.) girl is doing
something abroad—Ethel Faul, who, at the end
of a local art course, left two years ago for London
and Paris, and after 12 months’ work in each place
has had a picture accepted by the Paris Salon.
About the oldest man in active work in
Adelaide is Mr. T. S. Reid) secretary of the
Geographical Society, who, although 86 years of
age, trots along the road and climbs up and down
stairs with the vigor and alertness of a young man.
Adelaide Museum has acquired about
450 insect specimens, obtained in north-west S.A.
by the Wells expedition last year. Basedow, the
scientist of the party, receives the dizzy honor of
having a particularly large and offensive cockroach
named after him.
Queensland Assembly is joined by still
another journalist, leader “Billy” Browne’s Croy-
don seat going to W. S. Murphy, owner and editor
of the local Mining News. The Croydon People’s
Parliamentary Association recommended him, and
he got in without a fight.
SENATOR DAWSON, OF QUEENSLAND.
A blind bootmaker is the most interesting
worker in the populous district of Carlton (Mel-
bourne). If he happens to be troubled with
insomnia, the sightless cobbler can lie in bed and
finish off a shoe without troubling about a light.
Needless to say he’s an artist at his trade.
George Turner first took office on 22nd
April, 1891, and left it 22nd April, 1904. Of the
intervening 13 years he spent 10J years running
public affairs ; first under Munro and Shiels, then
for nearly six years as Premier of Victoria, and
the rest of the time as Treasurer of Australia.
The latest Vic. C.P.S. to be made a Police
Magistrate was “congratulated by Mr. Ni Gan
on behalf of the Bar.” Is there any other son of a
Chinese parent at the Bar in Australia ? Jimmy
Ni Gan, this one’s father, was long one of the
bosses of Bendigo’s Chinatown, where he built up
a fine business.
Many of Big Landlord Onslow’s Menangle
(N.S.W.) tenants have received notice to go as the
owner intends to sell a fraction of the estate. The
Camden Park property extends from Menangle to
Camden, a stretch of six miles. Onslow, after
repeated rebuffs at the poll, is now announced as
a candidate for Waverley in the Delbrm interest.
REGGIE TALBOT,
The brand-new State Governor of Victoria.
Dr. Lang, whose name has been hitched
on to a N.S.W. electoral district, was himself
an effective giver of names. He christened North
Queensland Carpentaria, which will probably
stick when that tract becomes a State. He also
christened the country between the Murray and
Murrumbidgee the Riverina —after Entre Rios
(“between the rivers”) in Argentina.
C. C. Kingston will, his doctors say, have
a fair chance to recover if he has about 12 months’
rest, free from worry and under healthy condi-
tions. Kingston has diabetes, but not in its worst
form : nerve complications cause the greater part
of the present trouble. The democratic leader
has no dietary indiscretions to contend against.
For many years he has been a total abstainer and
a careful liver.
“ Smiler ” Hales, commissioned by London
Daily News (the paper that discovered him in
S’Africa) for correspondent’s service in Japan, has
been blocked. The British Minister at Tokio refused
to endorse his papers on the ground that “in his
writings on the S’African war he had slandered
the British army.” That’s Hales’ luck again.
Just as he was getting stale to the public taste an
ass of an official gives him this gorgeous advt.
For the Vic. Public Service Assembly seat
the betting is mostly on four candidates out of the
dozen or more who have announced themselves—
old volcano David Gaunson, G. Mead, J. B.
Castieau, and G. E. Wollaston. Wollaston is the
most vigorous canvasser. Both he and Castieau
have done things of considerable size in the Inky
Way; Wollaston has one novel on his charge
sheet, and Castieau many verses and a £5O prize
essay.
Norman Gough, the new lecturer in French
at Sydney University, is the youngest teaching
member of the Uni. staff. An astonishing fact is
that he isn’t a Scotchman. Gough graduated with
high honors in French, and then devoted his
energies to English literature. He got a good
deal of praise for a one-act play with a Woman
Who Shouldn’t as lead character. It was produced
a few years ago at Sydney Palace. Before this
appointment he held a billet in the Mint.
Harry Daniels, who represented Cam booya
(Q.), ’93-’99, couldn’t, by the wildest flight of
imagination, be said to have a commanding
presence. A.ll the same he badly licked Mr.
Patrick Perkins in 1893, to the surprise of both
Perkins and himself. The day following the elec-
tion a compatriot met Mr. Pat and said:
“ I’m sorry ye were bate, Mr. Perkins.” “ You’d
be a d—d sight more sorry, Ned, if you saw what
bate me,” said the embittered beer-maker.
“ The Prooshan ” : Sydney Jephcott, the
Upper Murray poet, whose handwriting is so
suggestive of big timber (as The Bulletin once
observed, “no mortal man can read it ”), showed
me a letter from Max Hirsch recently which beat
Jephcott’s badly. We put in one whole after-
noon in trying to identify one word, but failed..
Jephcott, whom Francis Adams declared 10 years
ago was the “strongest Australian poetical voice,”
hasn’t made much poetry of late, but he has five
bairns.
A Sydney undertaker, who lately buried a
somewhat elevated person, exhibits in his window
an illustrated weekly paper containing snapshots
of the funeral. The photographer attached to the
weekly journal is generally conspicuous at the
funerals of important persons, and gruesome pic-
tures of “The hearse passing Smith-street,” “A
snapshot at the grave,” “Lowering the coffin,”
etc., are sent into the homes of the outback sub-
scriber, who pastes them on the wall to brighten
up the room.
The late Queensland Minister, “ Billy ”
Browne, as his miner constituents and even their
children called him, was an enthusiastic believer
in the great resources of Northern Queensland,
and was never weary of prophesying a grand
future for that portion of the State, and of extol-
ling its climate as a healthy one. He was fond of
taking sceptics on the latter point to visit the
various schools in his electorate (Croydon), to
show the sturdy, well-developed youngsters who
had been bom and bred there.
The perils of Bulk were further exempli-
fied in Bent’s case at the close of his meeting at
Cheltenham last week. He stepped from the
platform on to a chair. The chair resented the
indignity by collapsing, and Bent walloped heavily
upon the floor. At one time and another the
roarful old battler has suffered bruises, sprains
and breakages as the result of his absurd weight
and awkwardness. Outraged Nature never for-
gives a man for cultivating the figure of a beer-
barrel and the gait of an elephant.
J. F. Hogan exhumes, at the British
Museum, for the Melb. Advocate, a forgotten
but extremely interesting autobiography of In-
spector Dunne, of the Victorian police. Dunne
was the most intimate friend of Burke, the
explorer. He accompanied, the Burke and Wills
expedition to Lancefield, where Burke said he
was coming back to marry Julia Mathews, the
actress, and get his ancestral estate in Ireland.
Burke’s passion for Julia Mathews was well known.
She married one Mumford, and their son was
mentioned as a theatrical manager not long ago.
“J.F.” in correction:— Premier John
See (B. 28/4/’O4) is not Australian born. His
birthplace was Huntingdon, England. He came
to N.S.W. in 1853. Went farming with the
family on the Hunter ; chucked that up about the
year 18G6, and came to Sydney intent on “doing
something.” At that time A.J.C. “sold the
gates ” at their race meetings, and John See and
his subsequent partner in trade invested their
savings in their gate spec., and won heavily. Then
they started as Sussex-street commission agents,
and progressed.
Jacob Garrard, late of Sydney Water and
Sewerage Board, is reported in a press paragraph
to have started business as that strangely indefi-.
nite thing, an “agent and arbitrator”; also he
circularises municipal councils to the effect that
he has “made a study of biological and sanitary
matters ” and will be “ pleased to advise in busi-
ness matters.” Remembering some of his past
speeches The Bulletin thought Jacob would have
“gone on the land” and become a producer in-
stead of hanging around the city and trying to
arbitrate and biologise, but things have turned
out otherwise.
Some families run to the law ; others, like
that to which the late Critchett Walker belonged,
to the Public Service. Here is one with a bent
for the public school:
STEINBECK. —April 5, 1904, at his residence, Public
School, Nelson’s Plains, of pneumonia, William
Byron, aged 52, eldest son of the late Martin and
Maria C. Steinbeck, of West Maitland, formerly of
lilawarra, brother of E. R. Steinbeck, Moonan ; G.
W. Steinbeck, Public School, Armidale ; M. M.
Steinbeck, Public School, Metz ; C. A. Steinbeck,
Public School, Waverley; A. E. Steinbeck, 39
Windsor-street, Paddington ; father of M. M. Stein-
beck, Public School, Broken Hill; leaving a loving
wife and seven children to mourn their loss.
Plunket, Maoriland’s new Governor, is an
expert motorist, and can really repair his machine
himself. Victoria’s Governor and Faller-Off,
Brassey, used to think he could repair his own
bike, but that was one of his delusions. He
suffered from bike on the mind, and once took his
machine to pieces in the back-yard of Government
House. He was just going mad over the impossi-
bility of getting it together again when Premier
Turner and Attorney-General Isaacs arrived on
State business. Finding the Queen’s representa-
tive too worried for coherent thought and too
dirty and oily to sign his name, they tried to
relieve his mind by helping him. The spectacle
of Isaacs giving counsel’s opinion gratis as to
where things ought to go, and Turner sitting on
the ground trying to square the deficit—Brassey
having lost all the small parts and mislaid the big
ones—is said to have been memorable.
Oakleigh (Vic.) possesses an individual
who makes a signboard of the front wall of his
house. He evidently has a down on the local
council, for he invokes “A curse on the under-
mentioned councillors.” Then follow names and
biographies of the municipal accursed. Exactly
why he curses the undermentioned councillors
isn't generally known, but lie seems in dead
earnest about it.
The new Governor of Victoria was not long
in Melbourne before he referred to the subject of
his health. When he was getting official taffy
from Mayor M'Eacharn outside the Town Hall,
he put in a polite inquiry re Mac.’s convalescence,
and said: “ 1 have had sciatica myself, and I
know what it means.” So Governor Talbot is a
sciatican subject. A predecessor was addicted
to sudden failures of the knee-cap and other
weaknesses, which accounted for his “fallings-
off.” Hopetoun suffered from general lack of con-
stitution. Clarke, the recent Governor, had
nothing the matter with him except, perhaps, a
stiffness in the neck.
Scotland scores most heavily in the
Watson Ministry. Gregor M‘Gregor comes from
Argyleshire and Andrew Fisher from Ayrshire.
Watson was born of Scotch parents at Valparaiso
(Chili). Anderson Dawson was born of Scotch
parents at Rockhampton (Q.). Mahon and Hig-
gins are Irishmen. Hughes is a Welshman, and
Batchelor a South Australian. At 50 M‘Gregor
is the patriarch of the Cabinet; Watson, the
leader, is 37 ; Dawson, 41 ; Fisher, 42; Batchelor,
just 40; Hughes, 43; Mahon, 40. Two, Bat-
chelor and Hughes, started working life as
teachers. Later on Batchelor- became an engine-
fitter ; Hughes a barrister. Fisher and Dawson
are miners, though most of Dawson’s work has
been in the mills ; he was a “ boss” on the Towers
at 19. Mahon is a journalist; he led the Sydney
Telegraph Parliamentary staff for a while.
Higgins is a barrister; Gregor M‘Gregor, who
served an apprenticeship as a gardener, has
always described himself “laborer.”
JENKINS ISCARIOT, OF S. AUSTRALIA.
About a well-known mining man :
Herbert J. Daly, now reckoned in London as the
authority on Australian mines, drifted into the business
very accidentally. Of rather swell Irish family, he was
sent to Charterhouse School, then on to the Navy, which
brought him to Australia. He was a good draughtsman,
and intended qualifying for a naval career ; but, partly
by reason of his good looks, he was made a fuss of in Mel-
bourne, so threw up the idea, and was provided by
aristocratic friends with a billet in the Victorian Mines
Department. Next he married (on £3 a week) a daughter
of Francis Mitchell, formerly President of the Legisla-
tive Assembly. His draughtsmanship proved useful, and
he was sent out into the field by the Department. He
soon learned to estimate the commercial value of a mine,
and thus hitched on to a weekly publication as contributor
to a mining page. His copy required a lot of licking into
shape, but he was an honest mining reporter. When the
Argus wanted a mining man, Colin Templeton, of the
Broken Hill crowd, recommended Daly, and he accepted.
Just then Westralian mining' was booming. Daly went
over there, and was offered £lOOO a year to report for the
London market. He closed. Next he went to London,
explained his career to the biggest corporation, which
snapped up his services as confidential adviser in Aus-
tralia at a fee of over £lOOO a year, with the right to
private practice. Now he has a suite in Prell’s Buildings,
with a number of draughtsmen at v ork, and he can earn
from £lOO to £3OO for a single report.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
m
!2U
Marjoy
Jewellers and
Silversmiths.
Pair of. .
Handsome
Solid Silver
ENTREE
DISHES
In case, £36.
In Best Electro-
plate, £6/10 pair
Hardy Brothers’
1904 c Illustrated
Catalogue gives
full particulars
of this and every
branch of their
business.
mm
SHUNTER STREET,SYDNEY,&ATBRISBANE&LONDON
Aboriginalities.
“ Alone ” : An unfortunate little tyke got
into a tight place on a Victorian farm lately. A
big grain stack was started with the usual stook of
sheaves standing on end ; the dog crawled under
these unnoticed, and the stack was built on top of
him. Nine days after, when the stack was put
through the thrasher, an emaciated and sleepy-
looking tyke was restored to freedom, apparently
not much the worse. Knew another little shaggy
terrier of pious habits—a regular church-goer—
who, like a good Scotchman, mostly took his ser-
mons sleeping. One Sunday the sermon made
him sleep so soundly that he was locked in the
church, and wasn’t released for a week. He was
alive, but having been unable to get much nourish-
ment out of the church mouse, he had taken to
chewing his own tail.
* * * «
At Gundagai (N.S.W.) Stock (Protection
Board meeting recently, the stock inspector said
he was greatly surprised to find on visiting some
of the canning works that fully three-fourths of
the rabbits treated were bucks. When amateurs
trapped with a view to thinning down the pest,
he found that bucks, does, and young rabbits were
caught in equal proportions; but trappers had
assured him that professional hands knew how to
fix the traps so that, whilst bucks were caught,
does were enabled to escape, and so ensure the
trappers a good living. It seems a pretty tall
statement, though. What kind of trap is it which
discriminates in this fashion ?
* • * •
“ Nymsie ” (writing in the middle of
April): If indications along the rivers go
for anything, the dry spell of' weather
which is making the cookies quake with drought-
year trembles will soon end, and the streams will
be on the rise again. Fish of any weight are
haunting the logs, the little chaps are forsaking
the shallows, crayfish are late in getting to bed,
while shrimps doss under stones and bark-chips,
near the water’s edge—an indiscretion unknown
to the writer in other years. Ants have stored
heavily, besides perpetuating their species, and
the climbing ants are roosting high. Frogs have
been unusually silent so far—though prolific; but
their hosannas may be due with the rain-drops.
Maybe, like the cockies, they are anxious, too.
Snakes have been shy and scarce along the rivers,
though plentiful enough about the crops; but
turtles are more quizzical than ever. The fact
that the small crayfish are so late in getting to
winter quarters points to rain.
IN WONDERLAND.
DOG: “ Now I wonder if it's rising or setting."
“J 5.” : Saw a battle between a small
hornet and a big tarantula recently, and for size
of fighters it was the fiercest and most interesting
I’ve ever seen. Hornet, though only the size of
one of his opponent’s fists, in five rounds knocked
tarantula out. Up till fifth my beans would have
gone on the tarantula. He fought gamely, and
showed plenty of science. But the wings of the
conqueror kept him on top. Hornet on several
occasions was within a hair’s-breadth of becoming
a fixture within the jaws of his adversary, but
each time he escaped. (Man without wings is
but a poor thing ; his day of real greatness is yet
to come.) When I looked upon the fighters again
hornet was punching his sting into the spider’s
short ribs, and spider had chucked up the sponge.
A GLOOMY PROSPECT.
MUMMER (after absorbing a beer): “Do you keep a slate, mate ?”
BARMAID (emphatically, after sizing him up): “No I Certainly not!”
MUMMER: “ What a pity; you might forget it.”
Apropos the drowning of 310 of a mob of
1470 N.T. cattle while attempting to cross the
Georgina River recently: there’s many a good
drover who won’t tackle the job of swimming a
mob across a swollen stream. Generally speaking,
the bushman has a horror of water —which isn’t
surprising. Before the bridge was built at Wil-
cannia, Jack Burgess, a River bushman, whom the
police afterwards tried hard to convict in connec-
tion with the White Cliffs opal-mail robbery,
crossed something like 100,000 cattle over the
Darling, and, it is claimed, never lost one. He
was at the game for years. His tools of trade
consisted mostly of an ancient speyed cow and a
bullock which had been the cow’s calf in the dis-
tant ages—probably in the spacious days of Queen
Elizabeth. Even when well advanced in years
the bullock was still suckled by the cow. The
latter was taken across the river ; the calf-bullock
was put at the head of the mob to be crossed, and
went over, straight as a die, to the lowing of his
venerable parent. Burgess, that occupation gone,
is now stock buying and droving in Queensland
for the southern markets. All things considered,
he is probably the best-known bushman now in
western N.S.W.
“Mimosa” : Have frequently found
the dried-up bodies of mice hanging by their
heads in narrow, forked twigs in the fruit
trees, and used to think it a curious thing
that so many small deer had suicided in the
same way ; but have since discovered that
the said mice were the victims of the Der-
went Jack, or whistling jackass, otherwise
batcher-bird. He flies away with his prey,
and, hooking it up in a convenient fork,
dissects it at his leisure. Sometimes he
seems to lose the run of it. He is particu-
larly partial to canaries, and will come into
the verandah after the caged songsters and
attempt to pull them through the wires.
Have hurried out in time to find a dead
canary in the bottom of the cage, and a little
yellow head some yards away, while Jack
trilled joyously from the saplings. He’s a
splendid whistler.
* * * *
“Bel. Biliks”: Some of your extra
special fabricationists will bite hard on their
dampers in vexation because I arrive first
with this bit of natural history: When a
North Queensland dog wants to drink from
the Archer River he lopes along the bank
for 287 yards and there yowls persistently
with his loud pedal down. The crocodiles,
scenting contemplated canine suicide, all
scull to the place and await events. They
reckon it is a race with dog as first prize.
Then the dog gallops back on his tracks and
drinks at the spots recently vacated by the
crocodiles. There now!
“ Boro-Belle ” : Once went dynamiting
fish in N. Queensland with an aborigine. Said
aborigine had a dog, Paddy, which used to wait
until the plug had exploded, and then go in and
bring the fish out. On this occasion Paddy
went in prematurely, and was blown about five
feet out of the water. We brought him out, the only
damage to him being that his nose was bleeding.
After a few days he got right again, but his sport-
ing instincts left him, and he would never go near
the water again. A few days later, while out
dynamiting fish, an old buck-nigger went into the
creek before the charge exploded. When the ex-
plosion came he paled a little, and a few days
after his hair turned from a jet black to a milky
white, and has so remained ever since#
“ A.G.A.” : Have any Bulletin readers
remarked the wonderful durability of the intes-
tines of the native bear ? Used some once as a
substitute for wire to bind up a split rail. Ten
years after, the white ants had eaten the rail, but
the native bear’s intestines hadn’t even rusted,
neither had they lost all their fragrance. Catgut
should be easily ousted from the market by
native-bear gut. [The Bulletin would like to
know, seeing that the bear entrails were tied
round a rail, and the ants ate the rail, whether
the bear entrails simply remained tied round
the air, or they fell to the ground, or their
fragrance was still strong enough to support them,
or what ?]
“ Nym.”: How
high can a green
frog jump? Found
a splendid specimen
of the green variety
last Sunday in a pot
of asparagus fern
standing on a shelf
on our verandah.
The rim of the pot
is 3ft. Bin. off the
ground—a straight
jump unless the
shelf is first negoti-
ated —and that’s a
clear 3ft. from the
verandah boards.
Sent the frog about
his business (must
be a he, being so
bass of croak), but
next night he was
back, nestling in
the cool fern fronds
of the pot. Seeing
frogs are jumping
so (my neighbors
complain of a plague of frogs—black and green
—in their flower-pots), does this signify notable
meteorological happenings in the near future, or
have snakes scared them to leap for safety ?
* * * *
In S. Australian orchards during the last
few years English starlings (imported in the first
instance by the usual lunatic who wanted to
“ make Australia more like the old country, you
know”) have become a worse pest than the
English sparrows (imported by the same sort of
lunatic). Up to last season they had not touched
grain ; but now that they are thoroughly acclima-
tised and in millions, they have this season started
on the new food, and promise to soon give the
farmer as bad a time as they have been giving the
fruit-grower.
“C.H.R.”: Cannot agree with “man-
ager of Yudnapinna station ” re non-kicking
mules (8., 24/3’/04). Have had some experience
with the animals, chiefly packing on Tas. W.
coast, and always found it safer to remain well out
of range of their heels. They can kick straight
back with the force of an ancient war-catapult,
also sideways and frontways, and all other ways.
Knew one beast, pure white, that could kick the
eye out of a skeeter without provocation. Any-
how, he once banged a friend of writer’s in the
face and ruined one eye for good. Said friend was
standing two yards in the rear of “ Snowy ” when
the latter let go. The mule is a wonderful packer,
and it is a mystery, considering the size of his
hoof, how he can struggle through a foot of mud
under a 2001 b. load. Have noticed one peculiar
trait. When a mule approaches a water course, no
matter if it should be but six inches wide, he will
make a most terrific bound to clear it. It is then
safer to be anywhere but in front, for he is not
particular where he lands. A packer with mules
will generally warn a stranger not to monkey
around too close to his team. A mule’s kick
reaches farther than a horse’s; is quicker and
more scientific. You might educate a mule into a
more friendly frame of mind, but I have never met
a satisfactory pupil.
• • » *
The following advfc. and paragraph are
clipped from a Narandera (N.S.W.) paper:
£25 REWARD.
rpHE above will be paid for the destruction of a
dingo known as “ Dill-Macky ” running on the
Barellan-Mumbledool boundary. Body to be pro-
duced at either place.
“Dill-Macky” on tub Warpath Again. Notwith-
standing the liberal reward offered in our columns for
the capture of the above gentleman (?) we regret to say he
is still at large ; and we hear on good authority that he
has been waging war amongst the flocks of the Rev. T.
O’Shaughnessy, of Mayfield, near Marellan. However, we
are glad to say he was interrupted in his nefarious prac-
tices before much damage had been done. It is a wonder
that the reward offered does not induce some of our local
sportsmen to try for his scalp. The depredations of this
sheep-killing dingo during the past few months have been
almost incredible, hundreds of sheep being now laid to
uis account; and the neighboring graziers are very much
in earnest in offering £25 for his head.
The dingo is called “Dill-Macky” because he
only kills the flocks of R.C. farmers, the flocks of
Protestants remaining untouched. The dog went
through Mumbledool station (owned by a Pro-
testant) without doing any damage, and got on to
the farm of the Rev. T. O’Shaughnessy, where he
killed seven sheep. Then he bolted, again without
doing any damage, across the Protestant man’s
station on his way home. To such a pitch has
sectarian animosity risen in N.S.W.
* • * *
“ Mahoe ” : Dog-tax collecting in Maori-
land is not all beer and skittles. Called at a small
pah just outside Parihaka t’other day, and was
proceeding up to the whares when a big mangy
cur, about the size of a mammoth, came bounding
towards me, closely followed by a lot more—all
more or less mangy. Could find owners for all
excepting the mammoth. Told the natives that I
had the power to “ destroy all dogs roaming about
ownerless and without collars. After a good deal
of coaxing managed to get the brute on a rope
and started to lead him away, when an old Maori
woman bounded out of the mob, waving a huge
mat around her head and jabbering away in her
own lingo. She rushed up to me, and shaking her
fist in my face exclaimed : “ Why for ! Why for
you take my blurry kuri ! Why for ! The white
woman can own the kuri, the house, the land, the
everything ! The Maori waihine nothing, nothing,
nothing, no (and in a pitiful wad) not even a
blurry kuri”
THE HEATHEN IN HIS BLINDNESS.
Prattler thinks they look “ nice enough to eat."
The young ladies have grave doubts with regard
to Prattler in that respect.
“1.H.”: Have seen a half-caste aboii
gine, in Cloncurry (Q.), ride a young horse into
town, hang him up to a rail outside the hot< 1, and
Eroceed to liquor. After getting about half-tight,
e would bet drinks that he could heel his horse
like a cattle-dog without being kicked. His
method was to get on hands and knees and crawl
up behind the colt, bite him on the fetlock, and
duck before the horse kicked. Some day he’ll
duck too late, and the world will go on just the
same without him.
SUNDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Over the village in warm of the dusk,
Swings the church bell in a solemn ding-dong ;
Scented with lavender, roses and musk,
Blows the soft air, summer hedges along ;
Prayer-books, and lovers, and drone of the hymns,
And a fat, yellow moon where the after-glow dims.
Two heads stooped over the unnoticed leaf ;
Closes the preacher, “ Now thank we the Lord.”
Out in the white field where corn is in sheaf
Breaks her shy laugh with your stammering word.
Love-troth, and just you and she in the world ;
Did you notice before how her eyelashes curled?
• <•...
Iron of the desert and steel of the sky,
Runs the mirage all the sand-waste along ;
Stench of the dead sheep, and dams going dry,
Hate in the sick heart and knowledge of wrong;
Curses, and poker, and squabble of men,
Sunday and Sunday, and Sunday again.
Four heads drawn close where the stale old game goes—
“ Three,” “ See you three ” ; “ pass,” and “ pass ” round
the board.
Watch from your bunk where the mulga-plain shows,
Fight the mosquitoes and—thank ye the Lord 1
That was a playground, and this is the world ;
No business of yours if her eye-lashes curled.
M.li.
G. B. LANCASTER.


FOR TABLE & KITCHEN.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents Harrison dt Attwood, Sydney.
“Burglar Bill”: In my gaol there used
to be a bank clerk who tried to impress everyone
with his innocence, and went into figures to prove
that he had a surplus instead of the deficit
alleged at the time. He was known to warders
and prisoners alike as “ George Reid.”
Improve looks with good dentistry. Pain and
ill-fitting plates abolished at Dr. Thomas’ American
dentist, 57 and 58 Swanston-street, Melbourne. New
patents—new anaesthetic. Methods right up to the
moment. Most reasonable charges.*
The “Fx. & R.” Watch
The most extraordinary Watch of the Age.
The movements are on the Lever principle.
They have Brequet Overcoil Balance Spring's.
They have extra counter-sunk jewels.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel Ruby Rollers.
They are dust-proof and water-tight.
The cases screw together or close in the ordinary
way.
They are specially made to stand rough riding and
knocking about* and g'o with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
(breakages excepted) for two years.
They are made in every style of case.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
23 HUNTER STREET.
They are 25/6 in Open-face Oxidised cases.
They are 30/- „ „ „ ’
They are 30/- ~ Silver ”
They are 42/- „ }j
They are 50/- in Silver Hunting cases.'
They are 55/- in Silver Half-Hunting 1 cases.
7 jewels
15 jewels
7 jewels
15 Jewels
Any Initials in Monogram, 2/6 extra.
“A.L.M.H.” : “Tommy Tan-
gala’s” statement (B. 10/3/’O4) as to the
blue-winged widgeon and small blue
hawk being the swiftest Australian
birds is not altogether correct. The
small parrots known as lorikeets are, I
think, faster, though I have never had
a stop-watch on them. But the swift-
est of all is the spine-tailed swift. This
bird has a wing spread of nearly two
feet, the wings being narrow and sickle-
shaped. It will sweep from one horizon
to the other at an incredible velocity,
and without any visible wing motion.
This swift’s wing power is very re-
markable, for the bird has never been
known to perch upon the mainland of
Australia, although it is to be seen
daily during the summer months. It
does come to earth, however, in Ta: -
mania. Also it breeds in Siberia and
the Himalayas. It is, on the whole,
wiser not to give an estimate of the
actual rate at which the spine-tailed
swift flies. The speed of birds is a much
disputed subject. Gatke, from observe -
tion of birds migrating over Heligo-
land, asserts that several species attain a
velocity of 180 miles an hour, but other
ornithologists are doubtful. Perhaps
some backblocks crank, who has in-
vented a machine for timing birds over
a measured mile of upper atmosphere,
will come to the rescue and give us
comparative statement of the speeds cf
Australian birds.
* * *
“P. 8.” : Is there any animal
(man or beast) that can come up to
the kangaroo dog for stealing and
storing away? Had one that would
bury anything, from a feathered fowl to a freshly
quartered bullock. Killed a pig one evening and
strung it up about 6ft. from the ground to a branch
of a gum. Next morning the head was gone and
the ground below showed signs of toil. Took the
pig down, cut him up, salted and placed him in a
cask. Next day, when harrowing newly ploughed
ground, wondered why the harrow was sliding
over the ground as if it were gathering clods
instead of weeds. Lifted it up to inspect. A
piece of pork ! “By Gum ! ” I said, “ wonder if
I shut the store room door last night! ” I hadn’t,
and during the night the dog had been busy.
Before noon I had harrowed up the whole of the
freshly salted hog. The hound had been too busy
burying it to eat any.
* * * *
Jokes should always be printed in red.
The Bulletin had a yarn of a Victorian rabbit-
trapper who made a crate, open at the bottom,
and with some thistles fastened inside ; the rush
of rabbits forward towards the thistles sent the
crate along, dragging the trapper (who acted as
steersman) and family, and eventually landing
them all at the freezing works; they also sup-
plied enough force to haul miscellaneous goods,
and threatened to displace the regular teamsters.
The London Leader reprinted the yarn solemnly,
and now it is going through England as a “pro-
bably exaggerated account of a remarkable Aus-
tralian invention.”
A SUSPICIOUS CHARACTER.
WILLIE (James having made a surprising haul
at the store): "Did you ask ole Skinner to
put it down to you?”
JAMES: “ Well — er — no, not exactly—but he will
when he finds it's gone!
“Myrtle”: With reference to bullock-
skinning records. On the Clarence River (N.S.W.),
in a competition some years ago, a half-caste
named Taylor skinned (i.e., bullock is pithed, and
■competitors skinned, opened and gutted and quar-
tered) a bullock in 3min. lOsec. An American of
the Buffalo Bill type claims to have done the same
in 3min. exact (per record book).
AN EARLY BIRD.
HALLIGAN (having fallen into an open grave in
the Bidgee cemetery while drunk, and “slept
it off”): “I wonder if that's the lasht day or
only the milk.”
“ D.M ” from Tasmania: Be “Gilrooney’s”
mis-spelt signboards. There is one on a pub.
opposite our Scotchbyterian church—“ Licensed
to sell Spiritual Liquors.” It does a much better
trade than the pub. up the street.
» * * •
‘ ‘ Eiddal ” : The cheek of the average
Victorian cocky passeth all understanding. After
waiting, in many instances, for over
three years, without interest, for their
money, storekeepers are now approached
by their cocky customers with a request
for a 10 per cent, discount on account of
the past bad seasons. Even then they
only pay a bit on account, but want the
dis. on the total account, with another
reduction when the next trifle is paid.
And while the cocky could get money
from a kindly Government on the
Credit Foncier plan at 5 per cent, per
annum, the storekeeper had to pay 10
and 15 per cent, to the wholesaler “ till
the harvest was off,” and principally on
the poor security of the cookies’ thrice-
renewed bills.
* * * *
“ The Prooshan ” : Strange that
horses won’t buck at a show as they do
in the homestead yard. Fancy the pre-
vailing fashions in ladies’ dress, or the
lunch dinner, or the crowd generally
frightens all the buck out of them. Saw
a Mazeppa sort of animal brought out
at Tumberumba (N.S.W.) show re-
cently. He was supposed to be able to
buck the principles out of a man.
Dining the bridling and saddling the
owner hung on to the poor brute’s ear,
and slewed his head at an effective
angle. At last this Ukraine beast was
mounted, and 730 people held their
breaths. After meditation, the “out-
law ” mooned away under some willows
to avoid the sun. A local storekeeper
charged in at various intervals and
opened an umbrella under his flank,
but, like the rest of the outlaws that
day, he wouldn’t outlaw worth his entry
ticket, although the gamp was an im-
ported article.
“ Wei . ” : Hordes of mice have descended
like a plague on Mulgaland, and for two or three
weeks past have been raiding several of the
northern N.S.W. border towns. Something less
than a million have been killed in a week at
Hungerford. One storekeeper captured 1000 while
unloading a wagon, and later same evening killed
nearly another 1000. The visitation has revived
memories of the rat invasion of Queensland in
1886-7, and yarns of swagmen being put up trees,
or having their hair nibbled and their boots eaten
off while enjoying a siesta are on tap again,
Those rodents, by the way, appeared first on the
northern coast, whence they travelled about 200
miles fiiland, then disappeared as suddenly and
mysteriously as they had come.
The real hall mark of Australian bush
home-life is the concertina, which usually lies in a
reckless looking heap at the end of the sofa, left
there by the performer, who generally sits in the
middle of the couch when inspired, with the
“jammer” squealing upon his left knee. The
hand-strap works loose in the concertina’s early
youth, and little Freddy is sent tack-hunting each
evening; in fact, the strap has been nailed on, and
■ tacked on, and sprigged on until there remains no
more wood to nail it to, and the man who invents a
strap that will not detach will deserve a crown for
having removed one of the great disabilities of
bush life. The concertina is played by the whole
family, save mother and dad, who call it ‘ ‘ that
dratted thing.” Each youth or maiden that calls
is invited to give them “ a chune on the concer.”
If dad is bustling to be off to Waggawith his load
of skins, and can’t find “Old Poppet,” and, more-
over, fears that the flood will be down before he
reaches the creek, it makes no ripple of difference
to Jimmy, the son of 18, who sits, with eyes up-
cast at the flycatcher, jigging out a waltz on the
“ screamer,” or “ constant screamer,” as the girls
call it. Father sweats round, and says he’ll
“ d—— well smash the dratted thing,” but Jimmy
knows him better, and leaves it lying like a sick
caterpillar on the sofa, to have a bit of a “ geke ”
round for Poppet. Bush life really hums to the
accompaniment of the concertina, in health or
sickness, wealth or poverty, and the Australian
youth who can perform on the back keys has the
world at his feet.
* * * *
“William L.” : “Jimmy S.” is on the
wrong track. “ Booster” is a corruption of
Bontojer, pronounced Bontodger; and Bontojer
is a corruption of the two French words bon and
toujours —“always good.”
* * * *
“ Werrimee ” : In an article on Geography
in S.M. Herald, Earnest Favenc relates that the
material required by students in present-day
public schools would astonish an old-world teacher.
He adds: —
Fancy sand-trays and plastic-clay for modelling relief
maps, instead of a pencil and water-color box. Fancy a
magic lantern, illustrations in water tubs of wind and sea
currents, and various other experiments to demonstrate
the dynamics of geography. All this he—the old-world
teacher—would consider as mere playing with geography.
This recalls the bushman giving-'directions. He
will squat down and diligently draw a line in the
dust with a stick. Then he makes a mark at one
end. “ This is where we are,” he says to the tra-
veller. “You go along this track till you come
to a turn-off here (draws a branch track);
leave that an’ keep straight across the crick
(here he takes his pocket-knife and excavates a
creek in miniature); then you’ll see a hill on the
left (scoops up a heap of dust with both hands);
keep that on your right till you come to a gate
(breaks up some twigs and builds a fence). A
mile past that you’ll see a big tree on one side
(erects a small branch), and a lot of bones on the
other side (builds a little pile of sticks to represent
bones). There’s a road from there to a tank
(another excavation); you leave that, and a bit
further on there’s another turn off (more tracing).
Take the track round the big rock (hunts round
for a boulder and puts it in position) and run it
right along ’tween two big hills” (half-an-hour
spent building hills). The worst of it is, the
traveller can’t take this awful map with him, and
generally before he has gone very far he has got
the hills and rocks and bones all mixed up, and is
as much lost as if he had never been directed at
all.
‘ ‘ The Prooshan ” : Tom-cats are queer
ousses. Kept a monster for two years once, and
one night, when smoking at the kitchen fire, saw
Tom asleep on the hearth. Suddenly he sprang
up as if stung, gave me a wild look, and bolted
out. That was five years ago, and I long since
concluded he had gone the way of all cats. Two
nights ago, to my astonishment, Thomas sauntered
in and immediately entered a box in which I used
to put his tucker five years before. Next day he
hung on my steps and curled up on my coat at the
claim. He seems delighted to be back, but per-
haps he’ll bolt again to-night. Wonder if it was
only a bad dream that made him flee from the
premises five years ago.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS, No liability is under •
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
S.S.: Canadian banking system was described Bulletins
of 17/11/’OO and 28/6/’O2, pages 6 and 8 respectively. The
first article was reprinted in “A Policy for the Common-
wealth.” B.L. : “ Can mind at will toss out its racking
years ? ” Not in this paper... .E.T.M. : Don’t think you
are ever likely to be a payable poet. “ Convulsive duell-
ing hands that grope and grovel in the sands without a
groan ” suggests you are too original for modern verse....
Frank R. : Same subject treated so often before... .Gip :
No fresh thought Leonardo : Is it a fact or a fiction ?
If a fact, it accuses a countess of tampering with the
mails, and earning five years’ hard labor, and The Bulle-
tin wants a lot of corroboration before taking that 0n....
Vera R. : No ; not even for a girl with such a.
nice name J.O.H. : Verse hardly bright enough....
Etoi: Satire rather strained William N. : There is
some humor, but it is far too much drawn out L.M.M.:
Wouldn’t dream of publishing such a yarn—true or false—
about a dead man.... Stag: “Do we think anything
would induce William M’MiJlan to lead an independent
Freetrade brigade against turn-coat Reid ” ? Not much ;
there will never be an honest straight-out Freetrader
returned to, or even a candidate for, the Australian Par*
ment. The Freetrade doctrine is too brutal to put into
real practice.. .A.V.F. : When we want a poet of your
description we’il advertise.... Robert M. : But London
Truth isn’t an honest Radical paper Waratah : The
Bulletin pays at least Is. 4d. per inch space for accepted
matter ; special rates for special stuff.. .F.H.R. : (1) Slang-
poem not bright enough. (2) Your snake didn’t “ turn
red underneath from passion ” ; that’s the usual color of
his waistcoat Prickles : Neither suitable ; both show a
feverish anxiety to “ write fine.” Try rather to write
simple S.G.B. : Libellous E.J. : Neatly versed,
but not original in thought Bob :It shuddered on the
verge of acceptance for a while and then got to
the w.p.b. Subject too risque for your handling
A. L. M. H. : It certainly isn’t a ballad
W.B.M. : Takes us all our time to correct Australian
political lies ; can’t notice S’African tarradiddles
Mulura : And the beer was spilt; but you don’t seem to
get to the real depth of the tragedy F.E.P.W. :
Bright, but too much like self-advt Jaybell :
Too dangerous to give a man that “past” on
anybody’s unsupported word—even his own J.M. :
“Missed the ’Bus” has done just that S. Wegg:
Excited comparison of J. O. Watson with the Re-
deemer scorned with emphasis. Watson aspires only
to be a plain, honest man who will try to do his little bit
to make things better... .Helen D. : Fairly picturesque,
but lacking in interest Yarrevah : Not far short of the
mark Alan M : Has some humor, but is too jerky and
patchy W.J.H. : “Deal gently with the tyro.” All
right; consider yourself gently dealt with.... Dane :
According to British law, every foreign-going ship with
more than 100 persons on board must carry a doctor
W.W.F. : “Bulletin Office” will find him W.O.P. :
Dull, and too long in any case.... The Barb: “Neutral
water ” extends to the marine league from a neutral
shore. Outside that it’s “high seas.”... .Martha M. :
Nothing to distinguish it from the ruck of stories on the
same well-worn theme... .H.H.A. : Will make inquiry,
and notify you in this column... .Glimmerglass : Pretty
in a way, but only the old prettinesses about a very
old theme M.H.A.: You say, “Governments always
are impecunious,” and can’t keep roads in repair. Well,
if Australian local bodies put up their rates to even one-
third of the English average, the difficulty would be sur-
mounted. Unfortunately the Australian property-owner is
a poor, cowardly creature who weeps more over a rate of
Is. in the £ than the Britisher does over half-a-crown....
Quixote: If you can’t see the difference between Seddon
the Jingo, to whom The Bulletin objects, and Seddon
the democrat, who in his better days put Maoriland on
its feet with his progressive policy, then it isn’t worth
while trying to enlighten y0u....E1b. : Thanks, but as
the N. Terrace railway premises do extend right from
Government House to the gaol, the latter is “ next door
but one to Government House” G.E. : Your project
for handing over all children to the care of the State as
soon as born is rejected with disgust... .Marcus : Some
good verses, but mostly below par Jack H. : De-
clined. .. .Thurla : And why shouldn’t the word that you
call “licenced” be spelt “licensed” in The Bulletin?
The dictionary has it “ licensed” Inquirer : “ Why do
we never get any decent sort of government in
Australia?” But we do —occasionally. Turner in Vic-
toria, Morgan in Queensland, Kingston in S.A., Deakin
and Watson in Australian politics are at least samples of
decent government—though some of them might have
stepped harder on the loan curse R.H. : “ Our M.C.”
rather too rugged Rita S. : “Our Tryst” hardly gets
there K. : The awful suggestion that Australia’s
Federal city should be called “The Capital” and nothing
else, and that we should thus make ourselves the
laughing-stock of the world by looking as if we thought
we possessed the only capital on earth; and the ridiculous
idea of calling the Federal city’s inhabitants Capitallers,
have already been trodden on in this paper Pat:
Most incomprehensible jokes E.G.P. : Neither of them
strong enough S.R.S. : Funny in its way, but it
doesn’t suit us Edythe : Not up to literary level
C. J.A. : No ; it’s not rubbish, but neither is it quite good
enough for print H.8.C.: Pronounced “marry-an,"
with accent on “an” Smilax: Don’t care
for either Tui: Buenos Ayres, 840,000......
Les Lee: Still below the mark....R. Dit: Deficient in
crispness and spirit Olam : Rather crude and futile—
Gisino :No literary skill... .Tom Bede : Dull and dreary.
Sibi: None of them up to mark Fionnuala : Verse
conventional; sketch feeble St. Arthur : Too long for
interest.. ..Hannah O. S. : Not enough in it Pakeha:
Lacks strength and skill.. ..Wilmot W.: Awkward and
clumsy.. ..W.J.C.: Interest feeble T. McG.: No pro-
mise about either of them F.E.P.W. : Certainly
Omicron : Verse very dead I. Hill: “Bucky” is old
American joke... .J.A.M. : “Nuts and May” eminently
suited for bigoted Tory paper Jimmy the Ringer :
Undue rush of goanna literature just now J.E.S. : A
graduated land-tax can’t well be passed on to the tenant.
A tenant isn’t likely to pay more for a farm which forms a
bit of a big taxed estate when he can get one which
belongs to a small untaxed estate at the old price. A
land-tax which falls on all land alike can sometimes be
passed 0n.... D. B.: “ Oom Paul ” goes to wreck in second
line. “Bone” won’t rhyme with “Mentone” Un-
suitable : Te Aroha, J.E.B.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
M.T. : Neither joke very obvious... .Tom P. : Figure of
horse not bad. It might be worth while to practise for a
few years W.A.M. : No visible points about orchid
picture “Lank” : Not good enough, yet not without
merit N.E.Q. : Not a convincing drunk Roy:
Heaven only knows why you resurrected that old hair-
dresser’s joke E.G. : Glaring red and green illustration
rejected... .J.H.F. : Recognise the virtue of your in-
tentions but wouldn’t publish a thing like that even to
oblige Gabriel H.R. : Pictures about St. Peter only
pass if of remarkable merit.. .Malcolm M. : Neither
suitable. Some of the figures are terribly out of drawing.
... .W.S. : “ Providential Advantage” is the most obscure
jest of the year Donald : No sane priest carries an un-
corked whisky bottle at that angle W. Mac. : Fruit
joke very dim Sibl: Picture of thin girl on rook re-
jected... .Dianbi: Simply terrible. .Snowy : No trace of
humor J.H.F. : Picture of lady with saddle on not
exactly a shriek of mirth James P. : Neither sug-
gestion promising Unsuitable : H.R., R.E.B., Wompye,
Percy S.
Be the case of the recently deceased
Sydney solicitor Thompson, it seems a fairly safe
rule, when anything—even twins —happens to a
solicitor, to assume that a shortage in the trust
funds is at the bottom of it.
LAURA M. PALMER-ARCHER, AN
AUSERALIAN AUTHORESS.
Photo, by Charles Barnett, Falk Studio, Melbourne.


CONFIDENCE RESTORED.
London, April 27. The formation of a Labor Ministry in the Commonwealth has absolutely unaffected the prices of colonial stocks in London. Cable.
Cohen: “WATSON, WATSON, PREMIER. THATTH THE MAN WHO THOPPED THEM COMING TO ME FOR A NEW
FEDERAL LOAN. I THINK MY MONISH ITH GOING TO BE SAFE, AFTER ALL.”


He « " ow K" o *"’ to be
Merely A Jacrfl., fc mte<i +0
JooK like iron . A?e"
>l^P lov/e •«-!>'
-it. 6*re 1 '*S°
| A bo</r:-"tfell! }»»»fS*W r l£-
•' \
*fk
(jWg/
tv,
/Sees fcW W
afc ol fas
Some Orel's]
f sec hirr]
m
i
\%r<
r Qo r
jw'A' ; h
. %Jo
V
3 ut wcVe
” : ZhJr\sdtf'k"*V‘ wi T
- ' ">/ d«W
AU jVUoW 'iße'sll hw \ be , An endof
W h d7 ’* 1 # bA'fe-rjo-r
Cncmy
M'tibfc .on: —' o!ferlimlA *
lifflo
meanwhile, l s^.^ ou .
\ Cordial Witfi
> k one oe tne j
/ Tte sutcej s lonto\
\ j)ov/er o[ A
\ ministry in A»S \
jijaft \
J -1
Vie
still
i.'5 e 8
f.x, n« A
°^ck
V f^Ln\\\u,
Worie sedTonSac/s AH w »" ••
debend on W*+y>«lS
a {,oil}e ►section Says
__?'H on ~
'—T~TZLWx+s on x
<2)
tc prices ytocK a^re
y-J*iTely anafected
/fV Wacfjon
tece>V c d a, letter .from g*nT
hinifb forM Teder# 1 ,.
from £yTi »n f'oli'fics V
SOME PERSONAL ITEMS—LEAN AND FAT—FROM MELBOURNE.


A. SAUNDERS, for WATCHES. CLOCKS, and JEWELLERY.
s
i=s|
A. SAUNDEES.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver
WATCH, Full Jewelled, j-plate,
80s, £2, £2 10s, £4, £4 10s ; Solid Gold,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranteed 2,8, 4,5, and 6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Long Gold MUFF CHAINS in
Every Style and Pattern Made,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £slos,
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Choice Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined JEWEL CASE,
22s 6d ; Other Styles, 17s 6d, 255, SOs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Silver-mounted, Polished Crocodile Skin
PURSE, 30s ; Other Styles, 10s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
In Morocco, same mounts, 22 < (id.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHOE LIFT and HOOK, in Silk-
lined Case, 7s 6d ; Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt Bedroom CROCK, Splendid
Timekeepers, 15s; Other Styles, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 20s, 255.
m m
10/6
Bure Silver, large size, HAIR BRUSH,
extra long hard-drawn bristles, beauti-
fully chased and embossed, 10s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s. Post free.
10/6
8/6
Ladies’ Pure Silver-mounted Morocco Leather PURSE and CAR1
CASE combined, 8s 6d ; other styles, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
15s, 20s, to £2.
8/6
A. SAUNDEKS.
Bushman’s and Miner’s Pocket Compass,
a Boon to Tourists, 10s 6d ; Similar,
2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 6s (id, 12s 6d, 20s.
Ml
• ,
;
Still
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Polished Crocodile Leather
CIGARETTE CASE, Pure Silver
Mounts, 17s 6d; Other Styles, 5s
6d, 8s (id, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
Nickel
20s.
r\ M /
r 60
i
A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable Knockabout WATCHES, 12s 6d, 15s>
17s 6d, 20s, 25s, 27s 6d, 30s ; First-class Silver
Hunter English Eever, £8, £3 10s, £4, £410s, £5,
£6 ; Gold, £8 10s to £50.
A. SAUNDERS.
Friendship Gold Motto BROOCH, 20s ; 15et.
Gold, 35s ; 18ct. Gold, £2.
Silver,
355.
15ot. Gold, Opal, Half-hoop BRACELET, 13 Opals, £l-2 10s; with
Diamonds, £l5; Larger Diamonds, £2O ; 9ct. Gold, 11 Opals, £4.
A. SATJNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Silver Eirst-class HAIRBRUSH, Beautiful White
Bristles, in Silk-lined Cases, 30s ; Other Styles, 15s 6d, 21s, 235.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, Diamond Claster and Pearls, £5 ;
Diamond and Rubies, £310s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-bar BROOCH, Red or Blue Stone
Centre, 25s.
A SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 3-bar BROOCH, with Double-out
Diamond Centre, £2 10s ; Larger Diamonds,
£4108.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, SOB.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN, CHAIN,
and Photo. CHARM,
8s Id. To hold Midget
Photos.
'Q
' IS
Mr
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl Star
PENDANT or BROOCH,
Yery Neat, £3.
3
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell, Chased, 12s
6d ; 15ct. Gold, 22s 6d.
9ot, Gold LINKS, 12s6d;
15ot. Gold, 25s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS, fell the Latest Styles and Fashions
Prices According to Width, 25s, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3'10s ; I5ct Gold
£3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, 3 Pure Double-cut Diamond:
with Safety Chain, £5 ; Diamond and 2 Rubies, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted GLOVE STRETCHER, SHOE HOOK,
GLOVE HOOK, and SHOE LIFT, in Nice Leather Roll, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s WALLET and POCKETBOOK, All Improvements,
Silver-mounted, as above, 12s 6d ;
Without Shield, 10s 6d.
Initials Nicely Chased. Is Extra.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 15s, 20s. 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BOOT,
CHAIN, and PIN,
6s 6d.
Metal Pin, 5s 6d.
Latest Fashion Pearl. Bed, or
Blue Stone Set PHOTO. PEN-
DANTS. 15s (id, 17s ed ; Extra
Large, 20s ; Other Styles. 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s, 255.
loot. Gold HEART.
Double-cut Diamond,
30s, 40s;
Ruby or Sapphire, 255.
18ct. Gold 5 Opal
RING, £2los ;
Size Larger, £3 10s
I ft ft ft f\ # l r
A. SAUNDEBS.
Solid Gold CHAINS, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5 ; 15ct. Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Solid Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Wm
F
m
m
A. SAUNDEBS.
15ct. Gold BBACELET, Pearls, 3 Sapphires, and 2 Diamonds,
£l2 10s. Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-bar Pearl-set Buckle BROOCH, 355.
□y
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Crescent and Spray Pearl BROOCH,
£5 10s. Very Neat and Attractive.
A. Sn.UNDEx.S- , a
2-bar Floral BROOCH, with Diamond and
Blue or Red Stones, 22s Od.
A. SAUNDERS. A
Forget-me-not Floral Design Heart and Bell
Gold Brooch, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Floral Forget Me Not BROOCH, 10a 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-bar Opal and 4 Diamond BROOCH.
£210s. Very Effective.
A. SATJNDEKS.
9ct. Gold Shield LINKS,
22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, £2 ;
Solid Silver, 4s 6d.
LcboWaieu
■EEIUIB
m
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Heart
CHARM.
Extra Large, 8s 6d ;
Smaller, 4s 6d, 5s 6d.
6s 6d.
18ct. Gold Buttercup Pure
Diamond BING,
£B, £4, £5.
Gent.’s 9ot. Gold
Amethyst KING, 25s ;
15ct. Solid Gold, £2, £2los.
Plain Signet KINGS,
9ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
loot. Gold, 30s, 35s ;
ISct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
18ct. Pure Double-out
Diamonds and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £3los, £4,
£4los; 5 Diamonds, £5.
15ct. Gold, Diamond
and 2 Rubies’ or Sap-
phires, £2 10s ; 3 Dia-
monds, £3.
18ct. Gold Half-hoop.
5 Double-cut Diamond
RING, £5 ; Larger Dia-
monds, £6, £7 10s, £B,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
Band BING, with
Name, 9ct. Solid Gold.
12s 6d, 15s; 15ct. Gold,
20s, 255; 18ct. Gold.
255, 30s £2.
18ct. Gold Buckle,
mond and 2 Rubies, of
Sapphires £2 10s;
3 Diamonds, £4.
Hand-made WEDDING KINGS and KEEPERS, 9ct,
Solid Gold, 7s 6d, 10s 6d each ; loot. Gold, las ; Extra
Heavy, 255; 18ct. Gold, 20s; Extra Heavy, 80s, dss,
40s, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller & Optician,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-aTREET, OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.


Acts Gently. Acts Pleasantly.
Acts Beneficially.
Acts truly as a Laxative.
OF
"NATURES
PEASANT.
LAXATIVE"
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE.
California Syrup of Figs
is the one remedy which
doctors fully recognise as
effectually superseding the
purgatives of other days.
It acts simply, naturally,
pleasantly upon Liver,
Kidneys, and Bowels,
cleansing and permanent-
ly benefiting those organs.
WORDS OF ADVICE ■ — Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and
see that the package bears the name of the California Fig Syrup Co.
imitations are numerous, but as you value your health you cannot risk
taking a substitute. Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11
EXPELLING
SCROFULA
If Scrofula once gets into the system,
especially in the case of a child, it means that
the child has many years of great suffering
before it unless the parents secure for the
child the particular remedy which most
quickly cures Scrofula. That remedy is
Scott’s Emulsion ! It cleanses the blood
promptly and effectually, driving from the
system all the scrofulous taint and preventing
any other disease developing in other parts
of the body after the Scrofula is driven out.
Scott’s Emulsion then endows the body of the
patient with sound health and firm flesh, the
existence of which prevents any return of the
illness. Scott’s Emulsion does this without
any question, without any argument, without
any doubt! It cures the disease by removing
the cause, and strengthening the body to
resist a return. From many unsolicited letters
about Scrofula, the proprietors of Scott’s
Emulsion submit 'die following, to show the
radical way in which Scott’s Emulsion
expels Scrofula and all diseases of the blood.
Eltham Hill, Cowwarr, Vic., Aug. 24th, 1903.
Dear Sirs,—My little boy, Eric Evan, aged
Eric Evan Parker.
years, suffered
from a scrofulous
eruption on his legs
and we could find
nothing to cure
it. Scott’s Emul-
sion seeming to have
done so much
good for others, I
tried it for my boy,
and with very
beneficial results.
The eruption has
entirely disappeared,
it has purified
and enriched his
blood, and also cured
a cough that was troubling him. Yours truly,
_ (Mrs.) A. Parkeb.
Messrs. Scott and Bowne, Ltd.
If you want perfect Health yourself,
or desire it for your children, write
to Messrs, Scott and Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
send 4d. (for postage), name this
paper, and you will receive a free
sample bottle. Note this Trade
Mark when buying. Of all chemists.
m
Melbourne’s Churches.
A Melbourne man writes
Both the Age and the Argus recently admitted that
they were mystified as to the reason why some 10,000 of
the Melbourne electors failed to vote during the Maloney-
M'Eaciiarn scrimmage. Judging by the church advts. in
Saturday’s Age, one of the reasons is, probably, religious
mania. Offhand, one is inclined to believe that Melbourne
has no religion. None of the big churches is even half
full at any time. The last time I went into the huge
building where Dr. Bevan is supposed to earn his £3O a
week two-thirds of the seats were unoccupied, yet it was
a fine evening. The only churches which are at all well-
attended are the Catholic, and they are crowded in
the mornings, chiefly with girls. But, although the
regular churches are empty, there is a solid section of the
public which goes in for strange varieties of religion ; the
3tranger and smaller the variety the fiercer and more en-
thusiastic are the handful of weak-eyed disciples who run
it. So keen are these human oddments on their particu-
lar brand of religion that everything else is subordinated
to it. What is the good of talking politics to a
man who believes that the Second Advent is due
next week, or who fires such texts at you as “ My
kingdom is not of this world.” There is actually a church
which forbids its members to vote either at Parliamentary
or municipal contests. The members of this mediaeval affair
would cheerfully submit to the thumb-screw rather than
handle a ballot-paper. Know one who lost a good municipal
billet through this, and he never complained. Said it
was “ in the Master’s cause,” and went on, smiling.
In a recent Saturday’s Age there were 31 Presbyterian
Church announcements, 23 Baptist, 21 Methodist, 18
Church of Christ, 12 Church of England, and 9 Congrega-
tionalist. These furnished the first line of attack, and
looked by far the most imposing. But the real religions
of Melbourne are to be found under the headings of
“Other Denominations,” and “Meetings, Lectures, &c.”
David Syme’s religious manager has, apparently, some
queer notions of the difference between “ other 'denomi-
nations” and “meetings.” The Spiritualists are divided,
nine being placed in the select first list, and 14 in the
second.
The outlaws make a fine show. Overseer Voliva—
friend Dowie’s. Australian advance agent—is to the fore
with a three-inch advt., announcing a discourse on
“Elijah the Restorer, and the Sure Doom of all Apostate
Organisations.” A little further down the column Pastor
Abbott promises an address on “Voliva’s ignominious
back-down; unable to face Scripture criticism.” It
appears that the Collingwood Gospel-howler had chal-
lenged Dowib’s barracker to a platform debate, which has
fallen through ; and the beautiful things these two will
say of each other now—in the name of the Gospel of Peace
and Goodwill—will be refreshing. A modest little advt.
announces a service of the “ First Church of Christ ;
Mary Baker Eddy,” which doesn’t seem as healthy as it
used to be. Probably most of its supporters have deserted
to Dowie.
A queer two-lined advt. announces “ Seventh Day
Adventism exposed,” at bone-mill-haunted Footscray, of
all places. It is only a few weeks since the S.D.A. crowd
held a big camp out North Melbourne way, where they
ate nut-butter and lentil cakes, drank bean coffee, and
denounced anyone who even mentioned tobacco. Though
a weak-looking lot, they had tons of enthusiasm, and the
exposure ” threatened above wouldn’t alarm them
much. There is one Quakers’ meeting, one Unitarian
service (Lambley’s)— though Dr. Strong’s Australian
Church is really Unitarian—and one Welsh service. One
.. . e m y s teries of Melbourne’s religions is that the huge
city isn’t able to run one Free Kirk congregation. There
used to be one down at St. Kilda, but its parson offended
the Synod—the annual horde of parsons—which threw
him out violently. Since then Sinclair, of Geelong Free
Kirk, comes across once a week. There are fewer frill?
on the Free Kirk variety of religion than on any other.
It wont even sing hymns, only psalms—so that it has no
with such gaudy affairs as Dowie’s, or the Army.
Old Jos. Symes gets in amongst the “other denomina-
tions ” though he is “ agin ” them all. Finally, there are
the. New Church, the “Reorganised Church of Jesus
Ghnst,” “Victorian open-air and tent mission,” the
■*-h eoso phical Society,” and a pathetic little meeting at
ovv? advertises “ a book presented to all.”
Probably a book with blue devils chasing sinners, and
weird descriptions of the “ second coming.” They are a
queer lot, these “other denominations”; all convinced
that the rest are going to the devil at top speed. I
believe it is these long-haired people with the remote ex-
pression in their eyes who stay away from elections. The
Second Coming has got them down and worried them and
they always hear the millenium barking in the distance.
The precautions taken, allegedly to prevent
escape, at the S. Australian labor prison, have a
streak of humor running through them. Probably
it is the most casual sort of big gaol in the conti-
nent. Most of the men are employed quarrying
right outside the gaol walls ; and anybody who
likes can wander round the quarries in the even-
n 1! aud drop things—a revolver which some-
body had “dropped” was picked up a while
ago. ,9. Australia is a poor place, which
doesn’t like paying salaries and wages ; conse-
quently instead of putting a sufficient guard over
the prisoners it has sent one of its old cannon
out to the gaol, and fixed it near the quarries. If
anything goes wrong a warder is supposed to run
across to the cannon and fire it off. Sometimes it
will go off, and sometimes it won’t; last time it
was wanted to it wouldn’t. As the prison is sur-
rounded by open country at the foot of the hills
just outside Adelaide, it is reckoned that, even if
a prisoner or two make off, they can easily be
caught and brought back ; and with this in view a
horse is always kept saddled and ready for pur-
suit. Nevertheless, when a prisoner, seeing free-
dom staring at him from all round, does make a
bolt for it, he is treated with just as much severity
as if he had fought his way through a close guard,
or badly damaged his Majesty’s stone wall in
breaking olit. The system really incites men to
try and escape, and then it comes down upon them
without mercy.
Victorian Premier Bent is one of the large Tory
crowd which clamors against “class legislation.”
His feelings when he read the following political
platform of the railway w orkers were probably too
explosive for words :
(1) Abolition of Separate Representation.
(2) An Equitable Scheme of Classification for Railway
Employees.
(3) Amendment of Section 70 of the Railway Acts.
(4) Early Pederalisation of the Railways of the Common-
wealth.
(5) Re-valuation of the Railways and Assessment at such
Valuation.
(6) Special Rates for all Overtime and Double Pay for
Sunday work.
Pledge to be Signed by Candidates.
I hereby pledge myself to support every Plank of this
Platform, as well as that of the Labor party, and, if
selected, to contest the election, and, if not selected, to
retire and support the candidates selected, and, if elected,
to at once bring in a Bill to abolish Separate Represen-
tation.
The railway men, being ordered to go away and
politically flock by themselves as a separate class,
naturally take to class legislation. Bent has
ordered them to be a separate political class, and
the rest follows. Yet Bent’s remarks when he
saw their class policy probably began with
the fourth letter of the alphabet. One plank of
the railway men’s political platform is especially
notable. The Irvine-Bent Government has laid
the foundation of a movement for railway
federation, and that is a. consummation which
can’t come too soon. In fact, the federalisation of
everything, and the abolition of the State Parlia-
ments, State Governors, State boundaries, State
names—the extinction, in short, of the whole State
box of tricks, and the substitution therefor of a
strong Australian Government and an Australian
Parliament of one House only, and the establish-
ment of a comprehensive uniform system of local
government for all Australia, to do such work as
the Australian Parliament may delegate to it—
can’t come too soon.
The S.A. Government, years ago, sold Moorak,
the pick of the South-East, for prices running
from £1 per acre downwards. Then the original
holders sold for £2 all round. After that, the
State spent millions in building railways and
making roads to the South-East, in building har-
bor works, and in draining the land (practically
all the drainage works S.A. has ever done have
been hereabouts). And now, when its people,
starved out from the North, want land, and the
Government is a buyer, the present owners will
not take a ha’penny less than £3O an acre for the
second quality land in this estate. So it pans out
this way : First, the State sold the land for a
song. Then it borrowed to make the land valu-
able. Next, it borrows to buy back the land to
which it has itself given whatever value it pos-
sesses. Which means that the man who goes on
the land now will have to pay twice over for the
same lot of public improvements, and hump two
lots of interest, and finally face two lots of debt.
Yet, up North, ex-Premier Philp’s one idea of
salvation is to get rid of more public lands, and so
lay the foundations of more tragedies of this sort.
+
The Sydney daily papers lately let “J. W.
Withers” curse the Arbitration Act in their
columns: —
I hold a letter in my hand from a friend in England,
who says that our legislators here were looked upon as a
lot of lunatics to pass such an Act, and that he would
five Australia a wide berth. This friend has property in
ydney, and he is willing to sacrifice it and be done with us.
The Bulletin would like some more definite in-
formation on this point. Does “J. W. Withers’ ”
friend propose to dig up his property and leave
nothing but a hole behind ? If not, how does he
propose to “sacrifice it and be done with us ?” If
he is going to leave his property here, what is it
that the country is losing ? If Withers’ friend is
simply going to sell his property for less than he
gave for it, that means that Australia will be re-
lieved of so much debt; wherefore, instead of
capital being driven out of the country it will be
simply debt that will be driven out. Capital will
be driven in. It is this awful incapacity to dis-
tinguish between capital and debt which leads
to a lot of people making fools of themselves.
Apparently, according to Withers, as a result of
the Arbitration Act, Australia is likely to ex-
change an absentee landlord who spends his rents
in England for an Australian owner who will
spend his rents locally, and that seems rather
beneficial than otherwise. By the way, is that
property to be really “sacrificed,” or does the
man in England only want to dispose of it at its
full value, or a little more? If it is going at a
great sacrifice The Bulletin would be inclined to
buy—after getting an independent valuation.
This is always assuming that there is any such
property, and that the disgusted individual in
England isn’t simply another version of the
spieler’s uncle in Fiji, or of the man who was
coming here with exactly £lOO,OOO to establish a
new factory employing exactly 1000 hands—a
factory which was to make echoes, or reflections
of people to put in looking-glasses, or imaginary
hobnails for the boots worn by ghosts—but who
fled in alarm when he heard of our “socialistic
legislation.”
The Inky Way.
Sydney morning papers are likely to shortly issue to the
city and suburbs the evening- editions they now send to
the country. The subject has been under consideration.
When the war news becomes brisk, or other sensations
occur, a large part of the morning papers is forestalled
by the evening ones. Readers who have taken an evening
paper skip as much as a third of next morning’s. The
main trouble centres on the leading columns ; the same
leaders could not reappear in the evening. But that is
not an insuperable difficulty. Police court news, a large
portion of telegrams and cables, and city happenings lie
in the offices of the morning papers for 10 or 12 hours
before they are used, and, when they emerge, five-sixths
of the readers skip them. By issuing city evenings, these
items could be suppressed or compressed next morning,
and several sheets of waste paper curtailed. The change
would lead to smaller morning papers.
* * * *
Bathurst (N.S.W.) used to have three daily newspapers
to a population of less than 15,000. Now two have amal-
gamated—the Times and the Free Press, to become the
Argus. This leaves the National Advocate and the
Argus to dispute the field. The National Advocate is a
comparative youngster, but has since its birth been the
most vigorous of the western papers. The Times and the
Free Press were flourishing institutions in the old gold-
digging days when Bathurst was almost as important a
place as Sydney.
* * * *
When the daily press is getting red in the face de-
nouncing the Federal Labor party for dictating the policy
of the Government without taking any responsibility, it
would be well for someone to remind it of its own position
in the matter. The press has long been known as “the
fourth estate ” in the government of a country. Aus-
tralian papers like the Melbourne Age and Argus, the
Sydney Telegraph and the Adelaide Advertiser and the
Register have openly boasted at times of being the power
behind the throne. They have not hesitated to tell
Ministries that if they failed to obey them they would be
swept away. _ Now, where does the responsibility of these
papers come in ? If they find they are on the non-paying
track one morning, they readily change to another the
following day. Nothing could he more irresponsible in
politics than the daily press.
* * * *
“R. 5.0.,” in Sydney Worker, gives a pen-picture of
Brient, for years editor of Sydney Telegraph, now climb-
ing rapidly up in London : —“ Brient was repellent at the
Herald ; at the Telegraph he was more so. The very
characteristics of the man precluded any intimate know-
ledge of him. To me he was always a mystery. Rarely
was he seen about the office until late in the evening-
when he would glide in silently without a word to any-
one. Brient would never admit a mistake. For a proof-
reader to point out to him what he considered wrong was
to be humiliated and severely snubbed. Therefore no-
body ever thought of altering or querying what he wrote.
He gave me the impression in his reporting days of one
who knew his powers, and was disgusted at and wroth
with the Fate that compelled him to bow to and serve
others of inferior mental calibre. He was never in the
Seats of the Mighty in my time, so I cannot speak of him
as an editor except to say that the audacious, unscru-
pulous, mendacious, go-ahead sheet he made of the D.T.
was just what I would have imagined. Altogether he was
a great pressman, with a wonderful nose for news.”
* * * *
“ A ” : In the ante-room of a dentist’s torture chamber
I picked up a pitiable London publication of the kind that
goes to show why Newnes was made a baronet, or a
knight, or a marquis. It was a weighty pictorial, emanat-
ing from the Newnes office, and entitled “ The King and
His Army and Navy.” Among the photographs of per-
sons and things, military and naval (most of the personal
photos being- followed by brief grovelsome paragraphs of
explanation), I found a portrait of a man in a brass
helmet posed in the act of reading a piece of paper and
described as “Captain Somebody, at his last Fire Brigade
Review, before taking up the duties of Conservative
Agent. Then I searched the elegantly printed magazine
for some light reading matter, and found a page of illus-
trated interview with Miss Terriss, the actress which
finally resolved itself into a puff for a tooth-cleaning pre-
paration. The actress (in the interview) went on to
remark that life had acquired a new zest since she took
to the tooth wash in question. She advised the inter-
viewer to use no other, and the narrative closed with an
account of how the interviewer called at a chemist’s on
her way home and bought some of the priceless mixture.
After that I took my turn in the dentist’s chair and bore
myself like a stoic. The pain of tooth extraction was as
nothing compared with the agony I had derived from
“ The King and His Army and Navy.”
* * * *
Maoriland journalists are not easy in their minds just at
present, as they are convinced that there is some devilry
afoot amongst the newspaper proprietors. These, some
time ago, formed an association, and within six
weeks they have met twice to discuss salaries and trans-
fers. During the last year or so, there have been many
ructions arising out of one paper taking a man from the
staff of another. Maoriland owners regard this as some
kind of a crime. If a certain proprietary has a good man
and does not pay him an adequate salary, as is generally
the case, the man in question is apt to commit the sin of
lookmg for a paper where he will be appreciated, and he
often finds it. The result has been that the better news-
paper men m the State, by this process of sifting and
reeog-mtion, are gradually getting fairly decent salaries,
anu the proprietors are becoming alarmed. They are
endeavoring to arrive at an agreement under which no
paper will take a man from another’s staff. There have
been such arrangements in the past, but they have always
been broken, because the proprietors are such terrible
pirates that they won t even keep their word after it is
given to their fellows in crime. If the present attempt
comes off, there will be hard times in store for the
working journalists. For instance, Jones of the Times
say, who joined the paper at a moderate salary, has
improved until he is a valuable man, and worth a lot
more money than he is getting. He can apply for a better
salary, but, as his employers are aware that he will not be
employed by any other paper in the State, they are not
afraid that he will give them notice. Thus Jones has to
depend for fair play on the conscience of the particular
pirate who employs him. The trouble is that, with a few
exceptions, the Maoriland papers, which consist chiefly of
the report of the local borough council and extracts from
English and American journals, don’t require good men,
and can worry along with pretty ordinary ones. There
are one or two editors who are indispensable to their pro-
prietors, and who refuse to allow their staffs to be
squeezed, but they are very few. So a time may arrive
any moment when there will be a strike of journalists, and
the managing director will have to pound the linotype,
and the reporting staff will consist of fat and portly
members of the board, and the paper will be edited
by a large stomach, and finally come out looking
like_ the product of an intoxicated mangle operated
by “a lunatic asylum. The best cure would be
co-operation of the working journalists. There is
already a Journalists’ Union in Canterbury, but
a panic sets in if such a thing is mentioned in any of the
other cities of the State. This is not as it should be, and
the Maoriland pressmen will only have themselves to blame
if they don’t seek the obvious remedy. The proposal that
when once a man joins a paper he must remain
there for life, or for as long as the proprietors
please, at whatever salary the proprietors please, unless he
chooses to quit Maoriland or to quit journalism, is so
stupendous an outrage that, if a Journalists’ Trade Union
would appeal to the Arbitration Court or to the ordinary
law, it is almost certain something heavy would fall on
the proprietors.
* * * *
“ Press ”: In bygone times members of the literary
staff of Melbourne Argus were always dying and being
buried ; now they are always going a trip to the Cold
Country or somewhere to recruit their shattered energies.
They go bung all the same.
* * * *
This advt. may be expected almost any day now :
TUANTED —Smart man edit country paper. Must
*' have knowledge general store, and able to kill.
Good melodeon player for dances preferred, and must
be willing to help in bar.
New York Herald lately put in its offices a six-deck
folding and printing machine guaranteed to handle 300,000
4-page papers per hour—sooo per minute ! The machine,
which takes 96 full-page stereo plates, eats up 6£ tons of
paper an hour ; this is said to be the largest appetite any
printing machine has yet developed. Just 90 years ago
London Times got into a fluster on starting a machine that
would handle 1100 papers in an hour if it didn’t get out
of order.
* * * *
“M. Cormae,” whose verse has occurred at frequent in-
tervals in Tire Bulletin, is the front name of Michael
Cormae Keane, M.A., a native of Springfield (M.L.), the
present terminus of the Midland railway, as it straggles
westward from Christchurch towards the yellow wastes
of Otira. The lengthy “ Mick” is not more than 23 years
of age. He commenced newspaper work three years ago,
after taking his M.A. degree, with honors in mathema-
tics, at Canterbury University. His beginnings in the
Inky Way were as a proof-reader on Lyttelton Times, and
then he “did a bit” of reporting. After 12 months of
mixed work he joined the staff of Truth, the evening
paper on the other side of the road, published by the
Press Co. Recently “M. Cormae” joined the literary
staff of Wellington Evening Post, of which Gresley Lukin
is editor.
A coterie of exalted geniuses, calling
themselves the “ Paris Society of Picture-makers
upon the Human Skin,” have had the brass-bound
cheek to petition the French Chamber of
Deputies, to pass a law compelling parents to
have their children tattooed with their names and
dates of birth. They claim that this would serve
as an excellent means of identification. Why,
God bless us, that is what most of us are trying to
avoid. Who wants to be identified ?
THE DRINKY WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What makes our bards and writers go
The one impartial track ?
That sodden road of beer and woe
From which none cometh back !
In that blind lane our brightest ones
In song and story stray ;
WHY do Australia’s clever sons
All go the Drinky Way ?
Remember Blank—a few years back,
The world was at his feet;
Where is he now ? He dwells, alack !
In a Drink-Cure Retreat.
The endless fame he might have won
Is fled from him for aye ;
We saw the setting of his sun
Upon the Drinky Way !
This is no Temp’rance homilee
Expounded by a saint;
It is a cry made eamestlee
To all who write and paint.
It is a call from one who knows,
Though not yet old and gray,
That flush upon the country’s nose
Which treads the Drinky Way !
The W.C.T.U is not
Responsible for this
Loud shout to those who blindly trot
Towards beer’s precipice.
’Tis not a voice from Sawbath school
Lifts up a holy bray—
This scribe himself hath played the fool
Upon the Drinky Way.
What makes our bards and writers steer
The one unhappy track—
That painful road of grief and beer
From which none cometh hack ?
To paint the city red by night,
To paint the nose by day—
These are the recreations bright
Along the Drinky Way.
GRANTN HERVEY.


mm
GO TO HELL-
IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74- Elizafoeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
rheumatlguro
NEVER FAILS TO CURE
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago,
and Neuralgia. Of all Chemists, 2/9
AGENTS—FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE.
SPECTACLES
m
—FOR —
DEFECTIVE
VISION, x.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-St., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
d.c.l:
- WHISKY xJ
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
Some doctors spend a life-time
In hunting after germs,
And by the time they’ve killed them,
Th°y’ve grown as big as worms ;
Microbes would bid adieu to earth,
Chest troubles would be fewer,
Life would be gay, if every one
Took Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and I3EST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Now suggested that the Education system
should be federalised. There is, in fact, a whole-
some public feeling growing in favor of federalising
almost everything.
The stock of lawyers—many of them pro-
bably short in the trust funds—in N.S.W. is now
so large that some advocate the withdrawal of
Government subsidy so far as the study of law at
the University is concerned.
W .J. McWilliams, M.H.R., when declaim-
ing against the Navigation Bill at Hobart,
stated:—
The wealthy shipowners of Australia would continue to
sweat the producers as they had done for years.
What disastrous kind of a friend is this ?
Hobart Mercury on the divine institution
of State Governors :
No one can say precisely what they have done except in
a few public ways.
And it goes on to argue that therefore £3OOO a
year is well spent on them.
IN THE LUXURIES DIVISION—A
NOTABLE EXHIBIT.
“ Arrangements have been made for the opening at the
Crystal Palace, London, in May next year, of an ‘lm-
perial Exhibition.’ The exhibition is designed to demon-
strate that the Empire is self-sustained, and produces all
the necessaries and luxuries of life.”— Cable.
Dear B .—Be George Turner’s unpleasant
encounter with an unknown gent, of original
views on the Transferred Properties Question —
whereby he was bereft of a gold watch and sundry
other valuables has anyone noticed any of
the State Treasuries displaying a small surplus
lately ?—D.
One of the special curses directed against
the Watson Government is that it represents a
party which aims at unification in place of Federa-
ation. If that is one of the definite aims of the
Labor party the news is eminently satisfactory.
The maintenance of seven full-blown Governments
for 4,000,000 people is beyond a joke.
On the re-assembling of the Australian
Parliament the Watson Government mustered a
party of 25 (but for Kingston’s illness it would
have numbered 26), while the other two parties
reckoned 44 among them. The Ministerial follow-
ing is thus distinctly the strongest of the three.
W. M. Hughes in the House of Represen-
tatives :
Some of us told the electors that possibly democracy
would find itself strangled in the Federal Parliament. I
was one of those miserable Jeremiahs. But I am pleased
to say that Providence has made me out an arrant liar,
and that the voice of democracy is stronger here even
than the voice of the prophets of the chosen.
British Chancellor of the Exchequer, an-
ticipatinga deficit of £4,820,000, claps on £5,550,000
new taxation, and so ensures a surplus of £730,000.
The Bent Government, in Victoria, anticipating
its chronic deficit, cuts at the sweated Civil ser-
vants’ salaries, proposes to repudiate the service’s
pension rights, and reduces the income-tax.
Archbishop Kelly, waging the denomina-
tional battle on education : “ The parents con-
cerned, can appreciate the merits of all available
schools. Their liberty of choice should be safe-
guarded.” Does the Archbishop now strive to
safeguard the parent’s liberty of choice, or does he
not use his religious anathemas to destroy that
liberty ?
Premier Bent of Victoria doesn’t want
much. He merely demands that Australian Pre-
mier Watson shall prohibit Federal officials
who happen to reside in Victoria from using their
privilege as free citizens and electors of Victoria
to help any opponent of the Bent Government at
the coming State elections. That is all Bent
wants.
Australians who served with the Marquis
of Fullosomething’s regiment of Scottish Horse in
S’Africa are notified that they will soon be able
to get a war bauble—if they want the reminder of
their fleeting madness. Probably the majority of
those young men don’t want a piece of metal to
pin upon their breasts. They had no intention of
earning it in the interests of Chinese labor.
As an argument in favor of Chinese labor
for the Rand, English Colonial Secretary Lyttel-
ton actually instanced “the success of Kanaka
labor in Australia,” and denied, in answer to an
interjection, that the Kanaka-importing laws of
Queensland had been repealed. As Colonial
Secretary, Mr. Lyttelton should take the trouble
to acquire at least an elementary knowledge of
Australian politics.
Almost before Governor Havelock got both
feet off Tasmania, the island’s Parliament pre-
pared for his successor by cutting the salary down
by £l7OO, leaving £lBOO for the new Governor,
with no provision for a private secretary. As the
Colonial Office isn’t likely to worry itself over a
job of that size, Tasmania will probably have the
first local Governor. Justice Dodds is said to be
eager after the post.
The violent proceedings on the part of the
British expedition into Thibet are chronicled in
the Sydney dailies as the doings of “ the Thibetan
Mission.” The title “ mission ”is usually appro-
priated by the religious bodies, in their campaigns
against our colored brother, and though our
colored brother comes to the same end whatever
the thing is called, still when he is killed before
the collection most people describe it as a war.
A pathetic query from a man who lives at
Brighton (Vic.): —
What has Brighton done that it should be left without
a Labor candidate and deprived of a chance of downing
Bent ? An idea prevails there is no Labor vote in Brighton.
I say just give the place a show. The electq-->te is full of
sweated dairy hands and laborers. A strong- radical
would win the seat.
Well, let that man work hard for Marshall Lyle,
who has just taken on the contract to oppose Bent.
From Vic. Premier Bent’s latest oration :
‘■lf I were to tell you the things that have been
done in connection with the forests it would make
a pig laugh. . . The amount of money that has
been wasted by that department would make any-
one cry.” Granting that the history of the Vic.
; State forests, clearly told, would make pigs laugh
or human beings cry, the question is, how does
the matter affect Bent ? Does he laugh or weep ?
There has been a re-shuffle of portfolios up
North, in preparation, it is said, for carrying out
the report of the Queensland Public Service Com-
mission. The Mines and Works offices have been
separated; Attorney-General Blair takes the
Mines ; Denham (lately Home Secretary) becomes
Minister of Agriculture and Works; and Airey,
the new Minister, gives up Works and Mines and
becomes Home Secretary, which ought to suit him
well.
While the agents of British shipowners in
Australia are cursing the Navigation Bill, which
proposes to make observance of Australian wages
and conditions the price of permission to trade in
Australian waters, the principal shipowners of
England are agitating for a somewhat similiar
Bill to deal with the foreign ships that trade
freely in British waters. The Board of Trade is
sympathetic, and strong support is assured for the
measure.
Some facts (from Figaro) as to the Dago in
the West. On the Gwalia mine 61 Italians used to
be employed to 13 Australians and Britishers (butas
there was a row, and a general election is coming,
some of the Dagoes have been put aside), and 60
to 70 per cent, of the men employed by the Kurra-
wang Firewood Union are Italians. The foreign
mining bosses like the Dago because, alive, he is
cheap, and when he is dead from an accident he has
no widow within reach to claim damages.
Ex-Governor Brassey, the gentleman who,
while in Victoria, fell off nearly everything except
the earth (and he fell on to that) is of opinion that
when Australia fully understands “General”
Booth’s scheme for sending emigrants to Australia
“ the misunderstanding will vanish.” Well, the
position simply is : If Booth wants to send us
the failures,, wrecks, and mendicants of England
we don’t want them. If he proposes to send
strong, self-reliant men, why do they require to
be dry-nursed and pauperised by Booth ?
A BACK VIEW OF NAT CLIFFORD , one
of Harry Rickards’ Latest Importations.
Bigjohn Forrest has finally broken with
the Deakin party. At a caucus meeting, he pro-
posed to turn out the Watson Ministry as soon as
the House met. The proposition was not even
respectfully discussed. And Bigjohn had been to
the trouble of loading up the columns of the
dailies with arguments against the constitution-
ality of Watson’s position. He thought it would
influence the party, but it didn’t. Deakin should
thank the Fates which have rid him of Forrest.
Extract from an article on Russo-Japanese
war from British Review op Reviews :
Up to the present time it has never even dawned upon
the average Colonial mind that if the Japanese become a
preponderating naval force in the Far East, they may
make very short work of the comfortable theories as to a
White Australia.
Oh yes it has. That’s why the Tory capitalistic
Eress, parsons and politicians of Australia are
acking the Japs for all they are worth. A Jap
victory promises cheap labor for Australia.
A circular has been issued from N.S.W.
Treasury stating that in future all sales of Govern-
ment property originally purchased from loan votes
must be credited to the loan vote from which they
were bought, and not paid into revenue. The
cheerful custom has been that, when the “perma-
nent and productive works ” purchased from loans
have been sold for scrap iron, the small proceeds
have gone to swell the revenue. The necessity
for issuing this circular is a beautiful commentary
on past methods in connection with loan expen-
diture.
Extract from a letter written tq Sydney
Telegraph by Mr. Jack Want
Reformer, or no reformer, I have been consistent in
politics. Can the same be said of Mr. Wise? What Mr.
Jack Want says the people believe !
Let’s see ! Wasn’t there an alleged Freetrader
named Want who hung on like grim death to his
billet in the Protectionist Ministry of Pat
Jennings in 1886 ? And since then has the same
Want been consistent in anything, except in con-
sistently going to Japan at every opportunity,
sometimes while drawing public salary ?
Owe’Sullivan describes Lithgow as “the
Birmingham of Australia ” and Mr. Sandford as
“the Antipodean Carnegie.” This is very
Owesque, and very silly. W,e aren’t Antipo-
dean—it is Britain that is Antipodean. And why,
O why, can’t we just be ourselves and not a
reminder of somebody in England or America?
England doesn’t call Shakspeare “the English
Homer”; it is content that he should be Shak-
speare. And Liverpool isn’t “the Calcutta of
England” ; it is just Liverpool—and muddy. Let
us also be ourselves, even if we are also muddy.
One thing seems tolerably certain : if there
had been a personal struggle between the Deakin
party and the Reid party for possession of the
Opposition benches, and Bill Lyne and John
Forrest had been present, it would have gone
badly with the Reidites, and the Dog would have
been badly trodden on. The two knights are both
old men, but they are very large and tough and
long in the reach. Also, they are heavy, and if
either of them stepped on a certain eyeglass in the
course of the fray, Reid would have had to borrow
George Turner’s spectacles for the rest of the
sitting.
The depression caused in Brisbane by the
Morgan Ministry remaining in power is becoming
acute. A large number of political jackals, can-
vassers, hangers-on, etc., have not had a square
feed of chicken and champagne since Philp went
out. The Lucinda no longer plies down the bay,
providing food and drink for the friends of the
Ministry. Ministerial luncheons, special trips,
openings and stone-layings are also 'carce. If the
Morgan Government doesn’t shortly ask the old
brigade of deadbeats if they have a mouth on
them they will either get vagged or have to ask
Kidston for a job cutting prickly pear.
An attempt is being made by local Premier
Bent to drive the Victorian public servants into
revolt as was done in the case of the railway men
last year. Bent’s tactics then are being repeated.
He is going about the country with a waggon-load
of reporters libelling the Service, lying about the
salaries its members receive, and saying that
they are “ Damned little good,” anyway. Bent,
Irvine and Shiels have lived on the political capi-
tal they made out of the railway strike which
Bent’s vulgar abuse fomented. And now Bent
apparently hopes to drive the public servants to
do something that will give him a big advertise-
ment and a chance of confiscating their pension
rights.
W.A. Goldfields Labor is out to catch the
five seats in the EastCoolgardie district, and is sure
of at least three of them. The two recently created
—lvanhoe and Brown Hill—are essentially Labor ;
but Kalgoorlie and Boulder are not such easy
snaps. Johnson, against whom a section of
. the workers raved a little while ago, was
not opposed at the selection for Kalgoor-
lie. He has to fight the mayor of the
town, Norbert Keenan, a curious compound
of Radical and Tory, and should get back
again. Boulder electorate, having been re-
arranged, is not so good for the Democrats as
formerly. Therefore it is unlikely that it will be
wrested from present holder, Minister for Lands
Hopkins. There will be no fights at Hannan’s
and Brown Hill.
According to Sydney Telegraph :
Mr. Deakin emphasised the fact that the Government
represented a minority in Parliament, and that it was in
office only with the goodwill of the two Oppositions.
The reign of politeness, added Mr. Reid, must soon
come to an end, and the Government would have to
justify its claim to represent the majority in Parliament.
Deakin has been in office for some time through
the goodwill of an Opposition party, so he needn’t
emphasise that point so much. As for Reid’s
statement that the reign of politeness is about
over, that evidently means—seeing that the Watson
Government is as courteous as ever —that his
crowd is going to drop all semblance of courtesy
and be just plain hog.
Apart from Attorney-General Higgins, the
first man to definitely join the new Ministerial
party in the Reps, was Alex. Poynton, member
for Grey in S.A. Poynton, who is one of those
curious blends of which the Reps, has several'
examples, used to belong to Reid’s party, but only
on the ground of Reid’s alleged Freetrade. He
was once a Shearers’ Union man, and he still has,
the solid support of the northern and western
bushmen of S.A. When Sudden Solomon formed,
his seven-day Ministry, he got Poynton to join,
him as Commissioner of Lands, hoping thereby to-
get the bush vote against Kingston ; but it didn’t
come off.
Melbourne Argus, of April 25th (news
columns): —
Government by Cabinet would obviously be impossible
if the caucus insisted upon controlling the policy of the
Ministry in every respect. It appears that Mr. Watson
struck the first blow for the freedom of the Ministry to
manage the affairs of the party on Saturday. He indi-
cated clearly that he did not want the Cabinet to be either
a kind of committee of the caucus, or that the caucus
should become an advisory board in relation to the
Cabinet.
The Argus, by the way, whilst fighting tooth and
nail against the Labor party, has shown of late in
Federal politics a desire to be honest and truthful
in its news columns. Compared with the venom-
ous lies of the Sydney Telegraph (for instances,
the yarns that Kingston refused to join the
Watson Cabinet, when he was never asked, and
that the Melbourne Trades Hall refused Watson
permission to include Trenwith, who was never
thought of as a Minister), the Argus is quite fair.
It’s a Tory, but just at present it’s a gentleman.
FULL DIRECTIONS.
“ The Postal Department has decided
to install 20 slot telephones in Sydney
and suburbs. A fee of threepence is
to be charged for using them.”
O'MULLIGAN BORU ( shpakin to th’
won erful tin insthrument):
“Whisht there! It’s Paddy
O’Brien Oi’m wantin’. Him
that lives in the little tin house
on’ th’ way to Willoughby. An’
if he’s not at home, sure, you’ll
find ’im at Cassidy’s shtor-r-e.
A big man, ’e is, wid a hoigh
shquaky voice an’ a limp in
th’ left leg.”
Melbourne
Argus makes
much ado
about Rupert
Clarke and
Pursey Chirn-
side breaking
up their es-
tates, alleging
there is, there-
fore, no need
for a land-
resump t i o n.
policy. The
short and
simple explan-
ation seems to
be that these
two big land-
lords have ob-
served the
present de-
mand for land,
and have
grasped the
fact that they
are likely to
realise higher
prices now
than they will
when the land-
-tax arrives, so.
they are sell-
ing a little at
famine prices.
T’other day
Pursey Chirn-
side put up a.
scrap of 2700
acres in 30 lots,
which brought
from £9 to
£47 per acre,
averaging £l7
an acre. This
beautiful land,
some of which
brought £47,
is actually
valued for tlie present Victorian land-tax purposes,
at £1 an acre, and no one knows of Pursey Chirn-
side having objected to the valuation.
The two Deform bodies in N.S.W. have
again been reconciled. They are reconciled on an
average once a month; then the old row breaks
out through the inability of either party to trust
the other alone with the spoils of office, or the
spoons or the petty cash or anything else movable.
WHEN WATSON TOOK THE REINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ A Labor Party Ministry ! ”
Old Job Cornelius Ham
Rushed out and hurled himself and paunch
Beneath a Richmond tram.
“ The Socialists are now on top ! ”
Poor Enabling sobbed and sighed ;
And in the Yarra’s fragrant stream
. Committed suicide.
“ The Socialists are eftsoons here 1 ”
Bold Colonel Neild grew rash ;
He seized his nocent martial sword
And slew his fierce moustache.
“ They’ll start a reign of blood and loot
Fate’s played an awful prank ! ”
Tom Bent exploded with a bang
And wrecked a Melbourne bank.
Upon a pyre of all his wealth
One fat man lay and fried ;
“ ’Tis time to die ! ” he to the end
The Labor Push defied.
It was a fell and awful day,
An apoplectic shock ;
And lifeless fat men, stark and stiff,
Lay round the Melbourne Block.
Jackwant and Smith—the one called Bruce—
AVept on each other’s chests ;
The scalding tears in torrents fell
Adown their snow white vests.
Dill Macky joined the Roman Guild
With Balmain Law and Haynes ;
And swopped dogs with the Cardinal
AVhen Watson Took the Reins.
JACK SHAY.


&f>e S*
“BELLING” PIANO.
t
The “BELLING” Pianos are our
Cheapest Grade, but good
Pianos withal.
We have handled them for the
past 25 years.
Thousands have been sold and
have given entire satisfaction.
We can import cheaper Pianos
than the Belling, but we
could not guarantee them.
They are Grand value for the
money-cased in walnut and
gold, and possess valuable
improvements.
You cannot buy a cheaper good
Piano.
SOLD ON EASY TERMS.
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free,
W. fi. Paling Co., Ltd..
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
PALING'S (Patented)
VICTOR PIANOS.
6>6 0
Victor Pianos are specially
made to our order, designed I
and patented by us, Known as \
Vidor I, Victor 11, and '
Ijfye New Victor Upright
Grand (with 3 pedals).
These Pianos at the price are the
best value obtainable.
Xshe tone is full and rich, touch
excellent, handsome cases,
and durability guaranteed.
If you want a good grade Piano
at a moderate cost
BUY A VICTOR.
That's the Piano you want.
* V? V?
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling Co., Ltd..
338 GEORGE. ST., SYDNEY.
VITA DATIO
«.
THE GREAT HERBAL
REMEDY, Cures
KIDNEY DISEASE,
BLOOD POISONING
and GENERAL DEBILITY.
Maylands.
W.A.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in testifying’ to the
great amount of good received by my mother in taking
YITADATIO. She suffered from Kidney Troubles, which
I understand brought on Blood Poisoning, resulting in a
large and painful sore on one leg, besides general debility.
In all, my mother took fifteen bottles of YITADATIO.
The sore is completely healed, and her general health is
A ery much improved.' You have liberty to quote my
mother’s case as being genuine.
Yours gratefully,
S. KENT.
P.S.-—Mrs. Kent, is an aged lady. The sore was about
tAAuce the size of one’s hand.
For fv/rther particulars ,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N,,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
This Elastic Truss
Double, 20/- anrl have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
If you like a Book that is pure fun
from cover to cover, buy
TWELVE EX-TANK TALES
(First published in the New York Sun).
C’kisi*, Inimitable,
Americas.
Price 3s. 6d
POST
PAID.
AMERICAN BOOK CO., Box 457, 0.P.0., SYDNEY
A niece of string on mv finger !
Now what can that be for ?
Something I have to remember
To fetch to-night from the store.
My wife said she’d die without it,
Her cough she could never endure ;
Har cough ! Now I know what she’s wanting,
It’s Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
YOU FEEL DULL.
If your liver is sluggish and out of tone, and
you feel dull, bilious, constipated, take a dose of
Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets to-night
before retiring, and you will feel all right in the
morning.*
TheCaUa
<4
X
(r%
.'X/
Boot
POST PAID
DUTY PAID
(Except to W.A.) for
23/6
In Tan, 24 6.
Gentlemen’s Fine Calf
Lace Boots, Whole
Goloslied, Calf Kid
Legs, Made-to-order
Appearance.
There are men who buy Boots
SIMPLY
FOR SERVICE
I
They want
LONG
SOLID WEAR—
Every hour of wear they can get for their money.
They don’t care much about style, but don’t object to it.
We are looking for these men. Callaghan Calf Boots are what they need. Leather
in them is tough as iron and pretty nearly as flexible as kid. And the style is there,
too. The Callaghan Boot fits. It has the comfort of an old boot.
State Size of Boot, also if Pointed, Medium, or Broad Toes are desired.
CALLAGHAN & SON, sas ceorce st., Sydney.
The politically unlovely Spruce Myth on
the Watson Ministry:
I am of opinion that Mr. Watson has been so carried
away by the honor of being sent for, that he has lost sight
of a well-known constitutional principle which should
have guided him. When the leader of a party is com-
missioned to form a Government he is expected to ascer-
tain whether he has any reasonable prospect of securing a
working majority ; and if he has not, he is expected—by
constitutional practice—to return the commission and
recommend that some other leader commanding a greater
following than his own should be entrusted with the task.
Should Watson have asked the G.G. to send
for Spruce Myth, who had no following in his
cowardly attitude of refusing to vote, or G. H.
Reid, who had a following of 11, or to go back to
Deakin whose want of a working majority was
'just what was wrong with him ? Watson had, on
the critical division; a following which gave him a
clear majority of nine, and everybody else was in
a minority. Whom in Myth’s opinion should the
G.G. have sent for?
From a Melbourne pressman :
Never before has there been in Melbourne a more patho-
comic sight than was afforded by G. H. Reid after the
defeat of the Deakin Government. lie wandered about
from his hotel to Parliament House, assuring the members
of his party that he must be sent for. Whenever the
newspaper men approached him he tried to lookimportant,
but betrayed his excitement and expectancy by silly
jokes. He had really convinced hinlself that Governor-
General Northcote had no option but to ask him to
form a Ministry. When the news that Watson had
been commissioned to get a team together was con-
firmed Reid got very angry. He couldn’t well blackguard
Northcote, so he abused Deakin for having advised the
Gov.-General to send for Watson. Reid’s bad temper in
the matter was even more pathetic and comic than his
important expectancy. It was the impotent rage of the
washer-lady when the copper has boiled over and spoiled
“ all her white things.”
‘ ‘ Alba ” writes :
The British public never understood Verestchagin, the
Russian painter, drowned with Makaroff in the latest
Jap-Russ sea-scrap. A French dealer once showed me
one of his rough pencil-sketches. It represented a lion-
mauled Arab crawling to the shade of a palm tree. A big
lion with protruding entrails crouched in the sand a few
yards away. Swarms of vultures filled the sky; to the
south and north lay an illimitable desert. The pain of
the picture lay in the “ waiting” look in the eyes of the
Arab and lion as they stared sunward at the hovering
vultures. The fight was over, but the genius of Verest-
chagin made the inanimate sand tell the story, for it was
clawed and rent into horrible shapes where the struggle
hail taken place. After the Russo-Turkish war, when the
British public turned out, one night, to welcome home
Dizzy from Berlin, a London art-society cast upon a sheet,
by means of a lantern, a replica of Verestchagin’s latest
masterpiece. The crowd merely gaped. It was a picture
of impassible rocks and snow-clad summits. The deep
gorges were blocked with ice. At first glance one won-
dered why the great painter had wasted energy upon
such an inanimate drop-scene. Gradually, however, the
eye detected innumerable mounds beneath the snow ;
these mounds stretched through the hills as far as the
eye could reach until the sight of them filled one with
unutterable pity. Under the picture was the inscription :
“ All is quiet in the Shipka Pass.”


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.. Grenfell-streec.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Cotiins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... .190,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £12,019 18 3
.Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Thomas Skene, Esq., M.P.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
JBanh of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,330,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,330,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Ciias. K. Maokkllar. M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches m all the Australian States, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; ifhder-
t/akes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circulai
notes and letters of oredit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
The Commercial IlanUiny Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,040,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,040,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gade.i,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. They, 11. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
Loudon Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughouo the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fira Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marins R sks . .
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will he destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleen ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STKEET, Melbourne.
‘BRIGHT’S DISEASE AND DIABETES.’
PULTON'S COMPOUND —OnIy Known Cure.
Agents—Benjamin Bros. & Co., Ash-street ; ON SALE,
A. E. Duvno, Pitt-street, Sydney.
WEAK, NERVOUS
And DESPONDENT SUFFERERS—our concentrated
extracts of HERBS, ROOTS. BARKS and BLOSSOMS
will restore you to sound HEALTH, STRENGTH and
vigorous MANHOOD when all else has FAILED. Valuable
advice explaining NATURE'S SIMPLE TREATMENT
tent post free to the afflicted. Address -
BOTANICAL INSTITUTE
VICTORIA CHAMBERS.
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
ISJ. D. L.
(NORD-DIIUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS HOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To EUROPE via SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA.
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. FRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 25th MAY.
T.S.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 6th JULY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
FARES TO LONDON .. Ist. £77; 2nd. £5O.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safely and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
DAMASCUS
tMILTIADES
MORAVIAN
R. B. V. M'Killiam
T. F. Spalding ..
A. Simpson
t Twin Screw.
Noon, May 14
Noon, June 4
Noon, June ‘25
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 ..£l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon3field Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, j-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
QCKA.]\riC STEAMSHIP COME*AKTY.
A. AND A. LINE.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Special Rates, Including; St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.——
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS
WE
&
&
$
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S.A7V
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
tjA CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
1 SIDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'-THU—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; lion. C. J. Robirto
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Biiuuk Smith, Esq., .1. it.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mu,],hr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830'.
Policies issued 91.305 assuring ,627,614,21 S
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
ravelling. Liberal Bonuses enuitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares issued to His Majesty in
terms of Board of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
The Bank of Horth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, PhiJp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250 900 ... £350,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direators—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, 0. Ci.ynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M‘Fa ri.ane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farqiiiiar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
" They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the YVaverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEH made bv Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate'y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
83T* BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. -»J
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
CANADIAM-AUSTRALIAN LIME
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
THE NEW TWIN SCREW STEAMER
MANUKA
SAILS, MAY 16.
NEXT SAILINGS— JUNE 13, JULY 11, AUGUST f.
Cheap Excursions to St. Louis
Exhibition, Niagara Fails and
New York.
Cheap Excursion to Canadian Rocky
Mountains £6O, including Ex-
penses on Steamer, on Railway,
and at Hotels in Canada.
Send for Particulars and Illustrated Pamphlets.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing- Agents, George-street, Sydney,
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Royal Bank j>f Queensland
CAPITAL PAID-UP .! £457 461
reserve Liability of shareholders. . 175’,997
RESERVE FUND(lnveste<J in Government Stock) 62,000
£695,46?
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Enwn. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
. • • • •
PORTLAND PLACE,
and REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
ITodern Appointments. moderate Tariff.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rNLORODYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHOHITIS,
DIAEEHCEA, & c -> keu-ra on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine [ should
prefer to take abroad witli me, as likeiy to be
most generally useiul, to the exclusion of ail
others, 1 should say (Jhlokodymc. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to ilia
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation."
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(MMITifD).
EXPRESS PASSENGER .SERVICE bo and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOK MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF POUTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippinfrat Fremantle
toallNorth Western Ports
S.S. Konoowarra, Friday,
May 6, at -6 p.m. (Tran
shipping at Melbourne.)
S.S. Grantala (newest and
fastest Steamer on the
Coast), Saturday, May 7,
at Noon. (Without Tran-
shipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
AndPortsNorfch to Cairns
S.S. Warrego, Saturday,
May 7, at Noon.
5.5. Konoowarra, Friday,
Mav 13, at 5 p.m.
5.5. May 20at 5 p.m.
Best and Cheapest Bo ate to Goldfields.
Salo°n Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government,, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADR.
kAJDt, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
IOUT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Cnina
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Officer
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
• . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are. large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America, c r the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Lincoln, Stuart’s
is
am
All over
Australia
A 8 THE CHEAPEST HOUSE FOR
MEN’S &
BOY’S
Clothing
Write for Patterns and Self lleasure
Forms
Lincoln, Stuart &.Co.,
Flinders Street, nelb< urne.
HERE'S A BARGAIN.
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch
Post Free.
3 /■
Cream, or Black
Tipped with White.
Worth Twice the Money.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note.
Illustrated Price List sent Free.
mm
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., Sydney; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne
Mention The Bulletin.
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
m
Prevents Decay, Save*
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches <fc all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTEB’S
N Eli VINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
osed it successfully for years.” — Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAP/3ILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S
WOR?D:!L’S
PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Sic
Of all Stokes.


“Alex. M.” : Supplementary to “Bush
Arab” (B. 21/4/’04). What is known as Wallace’s
Line separates the Asiatic zoological region from
the Austral; and, after passing between Bali (not
Bala) and Lambok, sweeps away nor’-east between
Borneo and Celebes. Various theories have been
advanced to account for the extraordinary fact
that, while in Lambok are found the characteristic
Austral cockatoos, honey-suckers and mound-
birds, none of these inhabit Bali —only 15 miles
away to the westward. The most favored suppo-
sition is that 350 miles of clear ocean at one time
separated Java from Flores, and that, when the
now intermediate islands of Bali, Lambok, and
Sumbawa (all volcanic) were, later on, upheaved
from the waters, Bali gradually derived its fauna
from Java, as Lambok and Sumbawa got theirs
from Flores. S.E. of Flores lies Timor, which was
at one time part of the Australian continent, and
is still almost entirely Australian in the character
of its fauna.
A pretty stox-y is going the rounds of Syd-
ney about a vigilant suburban police officer.
Sergeant Muldoon had at last been promoted to
the rank of senior, and the outward and visible
sign of a senior-sergeant is a small crown on the
sleeve or the collar, or some other part of “me
uniform ” —when it isn’t torn. Muldoon had
received his crown, and departed for home full pf
pride and dignity. Mrs. Muldoon, watching from
the window, knew by the amazing dignity of her
husband’s carriage that something had happened,
and hurried to the front door to meet him.
“ Sure, Denis, dear, fwhat is it ?” Denis did not
reply, but pointed to the crown on his sleeve.
“Fwhat does that mane, Denis?” “Sure, it
manes that I’m Senior-Sergeant Muldoon, me
honey.” “ That’s good for ye, Denis, dear ; but
what am I ? ” “ Sure,” said Denis, with a look of
loving congratulation—“ you’re Lady Muldoon.”
best^<4*
.WATCHES IN
jL WORLD .M
Visitors to the Old Country
m
*oYAL P/{
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
COUTH NENS/NG TON,
D OHD ON. S.IV.
m
THE NEW LOUNGE : ONE OF THE FINEST IN LONDON
' Self- contained, suites.
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE MOTEL IN LONDON
THE CWIUI UK OF 10STRHC1S1H, ltd.
THE TWENTY-SECOND REPORT OF THE EIRECTORS OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Ltd.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Twenty-second Ordinary General Meeting, to be held at the Bank,
136 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, at noon on Thurs.l ty, flt'i Aori'l, WO'.
REPORT.
M HE Directors beg- to submit to the Shareholders their twenty-second report, with a balance-sheet and statement of
profit and loss for the half-year ended 31st March, 1904, duly aud ted.
After providing for expenses of .management, interest accrued on deposits, rehate on bid, current, tax
on note circulation, income tax, and making provision for bad and doubtful debts, the net profit
amounted to ..
Brought forward from 30th September, 1903 ..
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows, viz. :
Dividend at the rate of fi per cent per annum on preference shares (free of income tax) ..
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on ordinary shares (free of income tax)
To reserve fund
Balance carried forward ..
During the half-year a branch of the bank has been opened at Trafalgar, in Gippsland.
The dividend will be payable at the head office on and after 29th instant, and at the branches on receipt of
advice.
The Twenty-second Ordinary General Meeting of shareholders w'll he held at the head office of the company,
12fi Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, on Thursday, the 28th day of April, 1904, at noon.
By order of the Board.
Melbourne, 19th April, 904.
SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
BALANCE-SHLET 0? THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Dr. For the Half-Year Ending 31st March, 1934. Cr.
To Capital Paid-up, viz :
31,184 preference shares
paid in cash to £9 15s. £304,044 0 0
77,278 ordinary shares
paid in cash to £1 15s.
per share, £135,23 '' Os.;
less calls due and in
arrear, £6lB ss. .. 134,618 5 0
To reserve fund ..
To profit and loss
To notes in circulation
To bills in circulation
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£33,079 10s. 4d. ;
bearing interest,
£291,306 ss. 7d. .. £324,385 15 11
To Other Deposits—
Rebate and Interest Ac-
crued —Not bearing in-
terest, £891,718195. 7d.;
bearing interest,
£1,117,987 19s. 9d. ..2,009,706 19 4
To contingent liabilities, as per contra ..
£438,662 5 0
60,000 0 0
13,730 4 9
126,698 0 0
98,170 17 5
2,334,092 15 3
100,360 10 9
£3,171,714 13 2
By coin, bullion, and cash
at bankers .. ..£422,387 1 4
By British consols, Metro-
politan Board of Works,
and municipal deben-
tures, at valuation .. 41,012 0 8
By bills and remittances in
transitu .. .. .. 169,147 2 2
By notes of other banks .. 1,912 0 0
By balances due from other
banks 18,545 9 10
By stamps .. .. .. 852 5 5
£653,855 19 5
By real estate, consisting of—
Bank premises at cost to new bank .. 193,253 10 1
Other real estate at valuation .. .. 56,751 2 10
By bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad or doubt-
ful debts .. 2,157,844 8 1
By shares in other companies at valuation 8,449 2 0
By chattel property at valuation .. .. 1,200 0 0
By liabilities of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra .. .. .. .. .. 100,360 10 9
£3,171,714 13 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
To Current expenses (including salaries,
rents, repairs, stationery, &c.)
~ Bank-note tax
~ Transfer to Reserve Fund
~ Balance
£23,502 0 6
1,152 4 1
10,000 0 0
13,730 4 9
£48,384 9 4
£4,013 2 1
By Balance brought forward
„ Gross Profits for the half-year, after
allowing for interest accrued on de-
posits, rebate on bills current, and
making provision for income tax and
for had and doubtful debts
43,771 7 3
£48,384 9 4
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
£60,000 0 0
£OO,OOO 0 0
By Balance brought forward .. .. £50,000 0 0
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss.. .. 10,000 0 0
£OO,OOO 0 0
Witness—lt. S. Watson.
THOS. SKENE
THOMAS RUSSELL /
Directoi
The customary A lulitors' Report and the Directors' Statement, to comply with the Companies Act 1896,
appear in the Official Report.
The TWENTY-SECOND REPORT of the DIRECTORS of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
1. The balance-sheet of the Bank as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss Account for .
then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders, T >„„ fu
2. The net profit, after deducting expenses of management and the other items specified in the Front
Account,
Amounted to .. .. •• •• •• -- - iq'ioq 13 fi
Balance from previous half-year LUi *
Deduct note and income taxes in Australia and Great Britain
Leaving available - £49,343 6
Which it is proposed to appropriate as follows
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making it £95,000)
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on preference shares
Dividend at the rate of 3J per cent, per annum on ordinary shares
Garry forward
£49,343 8 6
3. During the half-year agencies have been established at Mitiamo and Waubra, in Victoria. , , ,
4. The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held at the Head Office of the Company, Colhns-street, Mel-
bourne, on Wednesday, 4th May, at noon. . . . _ ,
5. The shareholders will be called onto elect two directors on that occasion in heu of John Grice, Esq., and
Edward Trenchard, Esq., who retire by rotation ; there are no other candidates. They will also be required to
appoint two auditors. , ...
By order of the hoard of directors.
JOHN G. ADDISON, Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia, Limited.
Head Office, Melbourne, 21st April, 1904.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
For the Half-year ending 31st March, 1804
LIMITED,
§T.
(Including London Office to 27th February, 1904, and Western
Australian Branches to 14th March, 1904).
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital
—30,578 preference
shares paid in money
to £lO per share,
£ >05,780 ; 238,488 or-
d nary shares paid
uj to £5 per share,
>.1,192,440 .. ..£1,498,220 0 0
~ Reserve fund account
~ Profit and loss account
~ Notes in circulation..
~ Bills in circulation ..
~ Government Deposits
—N o t hearing in-
terest, £64,173 ss. 5d.;
bearing- interest,
£363,866 6s. Id.
„ Other Deposits—Not
hearing inter e s t,
£2,392,316 3s. 4d. ;
bearing interest,
£3,337,802 14s. Id. ..
„ Interest accrued and
rebate on current
bills
„ Balances due to other
banks
85,000 0 0
49,343 8 6
£1,632,563 8 6
£304,562 12 6
1,459,354 14 10
428,039 11 6
5,730,118 17 5
63,934 9 9
28,724 18 4
8,014,735 4 4
£9,647,298 12 10
~ Contingent liability, as per contra .. £287,779 4 6
ASSETS.
By Coin, bullion, and
cash at bankers . .4
„ Government, munici-
pal, and other public
stocks, debentures,
and funds
„ Bills and remittances
in transitu
„ Notes and bills of
other banks ..
„ Balances due from
other banks ..
~ Duty stamps
-£2,874,030
9 5
~ Real estate, consisting’ of bank
premises at cost to bank .. .. 450,104 311
„ Other real estate at valuation .. .. 277,920 11 2
~ Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
~ doubtful debts 6,045,243 8 4
£9,647,298 12 10
„ Liability of the old bank, in the form
of a guarantee of certain shire and
municipal debentures (Victoria) sold
in London, and which are being duly
provided for by sinking funds, in
terms of the Act authorising their
issue, £107,100 ; and liabilities of cus-
tomers and others on letters of credit
and drafts, £180,679 4s. 6d., as per
contra £287,779 4 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
To expenses at head office, 112 branches
and 21 agencies .. .. .. .. £56,944 5 2
To note and income taxes 4,040 10 8
Balance 49,343 8 6
. *
£110,328 4 4
By balance brought forward .. .. .. £13,109 13 6
By gross profits, including recoveries, lrss
rebate on bills current, interest paid and
accrued on deposits, repairs to premises,
and rent 97,218 10 10
£110,328 4, 4
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
£85,000 0 0
£85,000 0 0
By balance last half year
By transfer from profit and loss
.. £75,000 0 0
.. 10,000 0 0
£85,000 0 0
JMOTE. —The customary Auditors’ Report and the Directors’ Statements to comply with the Com°
—— panies Act 1896 appear on the official Report. —J. G. ADDISON, chief .vanager.
•V-
74 GAN
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
tianz Induotton Motor. SOLE AGENTS :
The flestral Qtis Engineering On., [td., South fl|elb.
m
fr
•>**
The basis of which is “ Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to Worcester
and other Sauces.
G£A r 7“S—Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney,
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.


The Liver.
The Cause op Constipation - , Biliousness and
Many Stomach Troubles.
When you are constipated and bilious, and your
food does not properly digest, your liver is inactive
and needs a remedy that will cause the bile to flow.
Such a remedy is Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
“ They touch the liver,” aiding the digestion and
assimilation of food. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a searching remedy, driving all impurities
out of the system. They are a permanent and
positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, headaches, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches,
and for female ailments. Packed in amber
bottles, and sold throughout Australasia.*
BE A JOURNALIST!
THE most attractive Profession. None offers
such opportunity for advancement to am-
bitious young men and women. A ladder to
wealth and fame, social and political preferment.
Immediate position after completion instruction.
Utilise your spare time.
JOURNALISM BY MAIL.
Write To-day for Free Catalogue.
PRESS INSTITUTE,
15 St. Dunstan’s Hill,
London, E.C., England.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
English footballers will kick the leather and
N.S. Welshmen for the first time on June 18, at Sydney.
By the way, the programme shows that the promoting
body intends to get its money’s worth out of the team ;
it looks perilously like sweating.
* * * 4c
According to preliminary puffs, the English
team of footballers will be an even more formidable crowd
than Stoddart brought out, and unless our fellows can
cultivate more combination and better drop-kicking, they
will make a holy show of themselves. On Saturday
University showed an inclination to make combined
rushes and keep the leather moving, but the effort was
never properly sustained, and there seemed to be a
perfect craze for mixing things. No doubt the sodden
state of the ground favored frequent scrums, but anyhow
scrums are quite useless unless a team has smart backs
who can put in a good passing rush; and that is just
what no team at present playing in Sydney seems to be
able to do.
* * * *
It was in the smoking compartment of the
sports tram, and the man in a guernsey was hold-
ing an interesting conversation with a brawny individual
he called “ Nuggety.” Nuggety apparently had just
returned from other parts, or come out of gaol, for he
inquired volubly after old time kickers and scrummers.
“ Who’s Bill Jones playin’ fer now ? ” “ Oh, he’s chucked
it; got his collar bone broke and three ribs stove in, and
one er ther Glebes danced on ’im in ther scrum, and his
missus made ’ini chuck it.” Nuggety sighed : “Yes, a
bloke don’t want ter get spliced till he’s ’bout fifty an’ too
stiff ter play.” “ Then there was Jim Smith, y’ ’member
Jim ; one o’ them East Sydney forward cows kicked him
fairi’ the jawr; he got it put right, but ’twas a close
shave, and the vet said he’d have ter chuck it, too.”
Nuggety sighed heavily. “ Wotcher playin’ for now yer-
self. I don’t seem to know them colors'?” “Oh, I’m
doin’ the ’Stralian game now—ain’t so dangerous, an’ just
’bout as excitin’—yer better come an’ have a look at us
ter-day. ” ‘ 1 Righto ! Who yer playin’ ? ” “ The Y. M. O. A.
blokes at Moore Park,” replied the man in the guernsey.
“ The Wyemsyhay ! Never heard o’ them afore—is it one
o’them new suburbs Paddy Crick built?” “ Naw ! it’s
the Young Men’s Christian Association,” said the guernsey
man. Nuggetty stared for a moment, his face bloated,
his lips quivered. “ Oell !” he murmured softly. It was
a whole essay on “ The Decadence of Football.”
* * * *
The-gentle football tough has been much in
evidence in M.L. lately. Otago Union is inquiring into
the conduct of Dunedin teams during their visit to Christ-
church at Easter. Railway carriages were damaged,
windows being smashed and doors wrenched off. Trouble
at Ashburton Buffet resulted in a couple of footballers
being fined at a police court for having rushed the refresh
ment-rooms, played up with the crockery and generally
cleared the tables, paying for little, and doing damage
estimated at £7.
* * * »
The proposal of the N.S.W. Rugby people to
number all the players in first-grade and representative
matches is a good one. At present there is not too much
joy in watching a football match unless one knows the
whole of the players on both sides—and to get to know
’em all would cost too much altogether.
* * * *
“Scrum-half”: Par (28/4/’O4) that, as a public
attraction, football is not in it with cricket is quite in-
correct. At a first grade cricket match 3000 is a good
crowd, even towards the close of the competition. But as
many as 10,000 and 12,000 have watched a big first-grade
football match under the same circumstances. The usual
crowd watching a game between the leading football
teams at any time of the season is about 6000. When
Burwood won the cricket competition a few weeks ago
scarcely anybody took any interest in the match or went
to see it played. Even test matches don’t draw much
bigger crowds than did the football matches between
N.S.W. and Maoriland.
* * * *
Prince Alfred College (Adelaide) football team
leaves for Melbourne on May 5 to play a series of inter-
collegiate matches in that city. The team holds the cup
given for college football in Adelaide.
* * * *
Victorian cricket season finished Saturday week,
leaving East Melbourne with the pennant. The winners
have the fine record, during the last seven years, of five
firsts and two seconds. But for being defeated in the
last match —by ’Varsity—St. Kilda would have held the
honors; as it was it came second, North Melbourne
third. Remarkable that, in spite of annexing most
of the good players as they come on, the
big Melbourne club never seems to “arrive.” Arm-
strong “ came ” at the finish of the season, but
M‘Alister showed as best batsman all through, with an
average of 61, including four centuries. There is no
bowler worth mentioning. In League semi-senior—
cricket Williamstown tops with the fine record of winning
all its eight matches, thanks mostly to the bowling of
Russell, who snapped 23 wickets at 6'78 runs apiece.
Essendon’s position as second was also due chiefly to its
crack bowler, Sampford, who gathered in 50 at 10 runs
each. These two should be watched next season—the
State wants them badly enough.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Hardly fair to say (8., 14/4/4) that
Warner abuses Sydney barrackers “ by cable ” and “ from
a safe distance.” He wrote the abuse on the spot, and
immediately after the trouble had happened. It now
appears in the ordinary course in his London paper.
Australia’s prompt hearing of it by cable is due to the
fact—which Sheridan discovered long ago—that there is
always “some d —d good-natured friend” to bring such
things to one’s notice. A later cable shows that when
Warner was at a safe distance he made light of the
barracking incident —having had time to think it over.
All of which proves again what has been certain since
Ranjitsinjhi’s time, that no prominent cricketer should
write for the press at all.
* * * *
Melbourne tennis will boom this season. Twenty
associated and five affiliated clubs are competing, and 49
teams will necessitate an average of 15 matches every
Saturday, making a total of 464 fixtures for the year.
* * * *
The British dog is to lose his Common Law
right to one bite. The Dogs Bill introduced by the Bal-
four Government makes the owner of a dog liable for any
damage done by it, and it will not be necessary for the
complainant to show “ a previous mischievous propensity
on the part of the dog.” That was formerly necessary
under the Common Law to establish liability ; as it was
popularly put, a dog had the privilege of a first bite with-
out a penalty. The Dogs Bill also gives any local
authority power to make a by-law that dogs shall not
be allowed to stray through the streets between sunset
and sunrise.
* * * *
At one time or other Miss Annette Kellermann,
the sensational swimmer whose portrait gives a bright
glow to this page, has been enticed into talking of
herself as follows: —“I learnt to swim at the Sydney
Baths from Percy and Arthur Cavill. It was later, at
George Farmer's, that I learnt the double over-arm stroke,
after seeing Fred. Lane, who, in my opinion, is the most
perfect in neatness, cleanness, grace, and velocity of that
stroke. Lane is the only swimmer who has covered the
100yds. under 60secs. without the assistance of the
‘ crawl,’ which all the other great swimmers—such as Dick
Cavill and Cqpil Healey—have used for the last 40 or 50
yards of their best records. To what do I attribute what
you call my remarkable pre-eminence (your word, not
mine, remember !) among women swimmers ? Well, first
a natural love of the water; secondly, the fact
that my father is most enthusiastic about the
sport, and encouraged me from the first, and,
besides looking after my training, secured for me
the advice and encouragement of the best experts. I have
never been allowed to ‘ loaf,’ and I have never ceased to
hope I would do better next try.” After her great 21-mile
river swim in the Yarra, Miss Kellermann, when asked if
her feat of doing the whole distance double over-arm was
not more fatiguing than changing to simple over-arm and
breast stroke, replied that it was such an easy balancing-
stroke that to her it was far the easiest, and it is generally
ANNETTE KELLERMANN, THE SENSATIONAL SWIMMER.
Photo, by Sears, Australian Buildings, 4 9 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
admitted to be the quickest mode of propulsion for any
distance over 50 yards, for which distance the crawl is
effective. “I propose to leave for the St. Louis Exposi-
tion,” Miss Kellermann added. “ Then I hope, as an
Australian woman swimmer, to create some records that
will make my fellow-women talk of me. I intend to
devote my time to racing and record attempting in
America, after which I hope to proceed to London for the
Great Empire Exhibition.”
Judged by an exhibition breather over the full
Parramatta course, prospects of N.S.W. eight on Brisbane
River coming Saturday are not promising ; there wasn’t a
man among them who didn’t shape something short of
the thing, but extenuating circumstances were strange
boat and new oars. S.M. Herald is amusing on the
subject, especially concerning stroke: “He does not
mark the catch well, and his blade is not always square
when dropped into the water, nor does he nip on to the
beginning smartly ; but he is not rowing badly at all.”
Ye Gods, all that wrong with him and “he is not rowing
badly ! ” What ivould this particular stroke need to do to
row badly from the Herald’s point of view ?
* * * *
Died in Sydney, recently, Mr. Sidney Cohen,
cetat. 63. Deceased once ran a big sports depot on the
site of A.J.S. Bank. Prominent in all big cricket move-
ments, he acted as business manager for early English
visiting combinations, was also interested in boxing, and
was a committee man of once influential boxing promoting
body, Sydney Amateur Gymnastic Club.
Dawson’s defeat of Stevenson in a long and
trying championship match (one of a series), after the more
brilliant performer had scored a record break, surprises
nobody who has sized-up the two men at work. Dawson
is a sturdy little fellow with an air of determination about
him, whereas Stevenson looks as though he had been born
and reared in a billiard-room. A finer artist than Dawson,
he lacks the grit necessary for a plugger. It was the
combination of skill, physique and grit that kept Roberts
in the front for 30 years without any effort of self-denial
on his part. By the way, “ Old Jack ” is paying another
visit to Australia this winter.
* * * *
Four nights after crack cross-country rider
Frank Barr (whose death was recorded herein, 21/4/’O4)
passed away, his training stables —only substantial things
left the widow—were destroyed by fire, and one nag,
hunter Fearless, who couldn’t be got out was burnt to
death. Misfortunes mostly flock together.
* * * *
A Melbourne paper states that the A.J.C.
(Sydney) will do away with the stipendiary racing stewards
after August Ist. Taking into consideration the g-ood it
was alleged would be done by that body, and the little
accomplished, it isn’t any wonder.
* * * *
Australian racehorse-owners rarely give Aus-
tralian history names to their nags. Lord Cardigan by
any other name would have proved as fleet. The colt
might as well have been christened John Fawkner, Charles
Darling, Henry Parkes, Graham Berry, or Peter Lalor. In
the few cases where a racer has been named after a man
of Australian mark, the animal was of no particular
account, or the title was flippantly bestowed.
* * * *
Told about Regulation (sister to Regalia II.),
who won recent Auckland Easter Handicap, that she was
bought as a yearling by accident. Mr. Corrigan bid £5,
and discovered the youngster knocked down to him for
£9, through the offer being misunderstood. Regulation
was subsequently allowed to run in fattening paddock at
Hawera till a West Coast dealer came along and bought a
lot of bullocks, and suggested that as he had been a good
customer Mr:s Cprrigan might present him with a horse—
and he got Regulation. The mare has since run many good
races, and she carried the coin of Hawera people to a man
in her latest and biggest success.
* * * *
When that “ double ” tote was run at Riccarton
(M.L.) by the C. J.O. lately, figures showed that no fewer
than 34 different doubles (on which a solitary pound had
been planked in each case) were paying £B5B 12s. What
bookie would lay you that against two horses, and 34
different ways ?
* * * *
There was a “ rift in the lute ” in connection
with a recent raid on Sydney betting-shops. When the
army of police swooped down on the first alleged shop
there were no prices on the wall, and the only person pre-
sent was carelessly reading a book, with aparsonical look
and a very complacent smile. The next place (which
usually contains fully 100 people) contained but four;
after which the police, recognising that “somebody had
squeaked,” marched the alleged gamblers off, both police
and prisoners looking dejected.
* * * *
Prahran (Melbourne) Christian Citizens’ League
has undertaken the huge contract of morally regenerating
all Yarraside, and is busy organising prosecutions of
street-betters, coupon-sellers, goose-club secretaries and
the like. When the stain of the last goose-club gamble
has been wiped off the face of Victoria, the League, it is
understood on poor authority, will undertake the sup-
pression of the Stock Exchange.
* * * *
Westralian racecourses are fast becoming the
shadiest on earth. Gangs of spielers oscillate between
Perth and the goldfields, infesting every part of the
course—from the saddling paddock to the flat, according
to the clothes they can muster. At the last meeting of
the W.A.T.C., the swagger Club of the West, even the
lavatories were taken possession of by cardsharpers and
pickpockets. Thimble-rigging was carried on everywhere,
and one well-dressed gang must have scooped £lOO at
least. Three of them were arrested in Perth a week
afterwards, whereupon one offered the arresting bobby a
£2O-note to let him “ do a get.”
* * * »
Wangaratta J.O. meet t’other day witnessed an
extraordinary happening. Five horses lined up for Wan-
garatta Cup, and all were fractious, with result that at
“Go ” the lot got more or less mixed up in the starting-
barrier ropes. Firedamp’s rider was entangled, and after
going close to being choked, was dragged out of the
saddle. Corncob broke through, and had gone full two
chains on his journey before Nimbus and Maori (heavily-
backed favorites) freed themselves. Euphorion was hope-
lessly blocked. Corncob scored easily—eight lengths in
front of Nimbus, with Maori two lengths away third.
• * * *
The Federal Cycling Council will meet in Mel-
bourne some time during the present month, and will
probably be composed of representatives of every State of
the Commonwealth and Maoriland. What the Council
proposes to do is not generally known. Probably it will
meet at a pleasant hotel, look important, have a few
friendly drinks, and leave for home feeling much better
for the trip. There really doesn’t seem to be much else
for it to do, except draw up a uniform disqualification and
fining code.
* * * *
N.S. Wales, Victoria and South Australia put
up between £9OOO and £lO,OOO for prize money for suc-
cessful cyclists during the past year, besides which a vast
army of promoters, officials, ground-controlling bodies
and a whole army of hangers-on probably raked in three
times that sum. There’s money in cycling for some
people.
* * * *
The Automobile Club of Great Britain deserves
the thanks of the world at large, having decreed that the
word “ chauffeur ” shall give place to motorman ; and also
that, in the future, a motor-house shall be called a motor-
house and not a “garage.” When the English language
fails it is quite early enough to go abroad for descriptive
words.
$ * * #
Victorian Automobile Club raised another awful
stench on the Maribyrnong racecourse on Saturday, and
36 mobiles flaunted their fumes in the faces of 5000 people.
Motor-cycle races were held, and there were motor start-
ing and stopping contests to show how thoroughly the
wild automobile is under control as long as a strong hold
is kept on the wheel Last of all there was a “ reverse
race,” in which a number of politicians backed their cars
to the winning-post. This was, appropriately enough,
won by retrogressive Pursey Chirnside. On the same day
the Sydney motoring crowd, which calls itself the Auto-
mobile Club of Australia (strange how this craze for calling
purely Sydney shows “ Australian ” afflicts this bumptious
city), had a garden fete at a Potts Point mansion. The
Potts Point function carefully eschewed practical mobilics
for that afternoon, and confined itself to the enjoyment of
various smokes and drinks.
“ F. 0.” : After enduring three hours of alleged
racing at Melb. automobile “ gymkhana ” last Saturday, I
am of opinion that for the present motor-racing will
remain the pet diversion of persons of flabelliform habit,
with stodgy livers and a tendency to heart disease. The
swagger Automobile Club had issued about 1200 invita-
tions to its meeting, and a few of the uninvited public
paid 2s. 6d. and Is. to see tame motors crawl about.
Mostly the gaudily-painted engine went placidly round
the course at a 15 to 20-mile gait while the driver, in the
regulation get-up of water-proof ulster, leggings, goggles,
and squashed cap, ducked his head and tried to look as
though he were a patch of greased lightning slithering
through the atmosphere and leaving a red streak behind.
What motor-racing really wants is a wide, slightly-banked
asphalt track, about half-a-mile to the lap. When that
comes and something like the continental rate of speed is
attained I will patronise the meetings, especially as I note
the Club stipulates that passengers and drivers of heavy
cars must weigh not less than lOst. 71b. But, -as run at
present, the “ sport ”is as exciting as a snail-race. A few
casual Ikeys pervaded the situation and offered “ even
money bar one,” but long before the last race they
tramped away home, probably wishing they had put in
the afternoon selling programmes.
* * * *
Present indications are that there is going to be
a motoring boom in Victoria, and the wealthy are falling
over one another in the rush to order cars. The new
State Governor, Reggie Talbot, is an enthusiastic
whizzer, and the Automobile Club of Victoria is looking
forward to a “ brilliant season.” Victoria has had Irvine,
and it still hasT. Bent and Kyabram, but the stench is no-
thing to that which will fall upon the afflicted land when all
this crowd of gorgeous persons start to race through the
country, leaving the trail of petrol and other motor
fuels behind them. Within the next few months that
part of the State lying within a radius of 50 miles of Mel-
bourne will probably smell like a few thousand bad eggs.
* * * *
“ The last man out” idea, a Parisian innovation
in bike-racing, was tried for the first time in Australia in
the five mile scratch event at the recent Druids’ meeting
in Melbourne and the event was the most successful of the
day. The last man past the post each lap drops out ;so
the spectators were treated to the unusual spectacle of a
deadly, desperate sprint each lap throughout the race.
The thinning of the competitors by one each round left
but four remaining for the final sprint ; Don Walker ulti-
mately winning in style.
* * * *
The export of professional cyclists seems likely
to develop into one of the natural resources of this great
country. In addition to Scheps, it is now announced that
Don Walker will race abroad. He will go to England
under the wing of Major Taylor to take part in the
world’s championship meeting in September, and will be
the first Australian professional to take part in that front
rank meeting, unless Scheps should also appear and
divide the honor with him. Considering that Lawson,
Kramer, Ellegard and Jacquelin will also be there, there
doesn’t seem to be much hope that the championship will
be held by this Loan Continent.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
There are indications that road cycle racing is
going to boom this winter, and somewhere about 150
entries are expected for the Goulburn-Sydney Dunlop
contest alone. The winners and fastest time-makers
represent N.S.W. in the great Warrnambool-Melbourne
fixture of August 20. This year the Dunlop people insist
that each competitor must ride the same machine right
through the race. Previously they were allowed to have
relays of nice, clean, well-oiled machines along the road.
The mounting of a fresh, clean bike after a bad spell
of dirty road was like a great beer in a weary land, and
although the new arrangement is a greater test of
stamina, it will certainly be the cause of much anger, and
also of diminished velocity.
» * * *
George Towns moans there is no “ gate” in the
rowing championship business, barring the cold, uneatable
“ honor.” He’s no better off than if he had never pushed
a scull in his life. Apropos, amongst the 260 applicants
for four £3 lOs.-a-week jobs as inspectors in Sydney Coun-
cil’s cleansing department, was ex-champion oarsman
“ Bill ” Beach. Though Alderman Kelly tried to push
his claims, Beach’s name didn’t appear amongst those
chosen for final selection.
* * * #
The sacred Sambo of the cycling circuit, Major
Taylor, was announced to make his debut in footracing
at N.S.W. Athletic League’s meeting, New Sports Ground,
Sydney, May 9th and 11th. But the fixture was after-
wards cancelled. Major Taylor probably decided that the
Lord did not require him on the cinder track.
At Pahiatua (M.L.) athletic sports the Rev.
T. M'Kenna won the putting- the 161 b. weight event.
“ Father Tom,” as he is familiarly called, is a brother of
Dean M'Keima, of Wairarapa, who is regarded as an
authority on athletics and coursing.
N.S.W. National Coursing Association’s first
meeting of the season was at Rooty Hill amid fields of
mud and sheets of falling rain. Still, dogs ran well, and
hares were strong and knowing, and in 54 trials only 12
failed to escape. For the Derby, Braggadocio, exhausted
by a gruelling course with Desmond, was badly beaten by
Demos, while the Oaks went to P. A. Lamb’s Kilmainham-
Lozenge puppy Lanolinc.
* * * *
Most fight-hungry Australian pug. is lightweight
champion Bob Turner, who, finding none in his own
weight class (lOst.) to come along, after squelching nearly -
a-stone-heavier Blackmore, has challenged welter top-
notchers Nelson and Johns to be taken on in turn after
an engagement with Rollo (just back from a big fight in
S’Africa) is fulfilled.
* * # *
Bruiser Neill, who fought Soldier Thompson at
the Sydney National the night this paper went to press,
used to be a pressman, and from dealing it out with his
pen took to ladling it out with his fly-dusters. He’s a
hard-faced, theatrical-looking individual, with an Aaron
Burr cast of countenance.
* * * * .
A record crowd for Broken Hill watched Fin
McLean (8.H.) and Jim Cook (White Cliffs) rough and
thump for 18 minutes for the Barrier supremacy, vacant
ever since dead and gone Joe Goddard won it years ago.
Cook scaled 13st., McLean 12.7. Mac forced and ’rastled
and bashed his man to the floor repeatedly, but suffered
severely in the process. In the fourth round Cook com-
menced to smile while McLean tired. Round five was
undiluted fury, and both were knocked down repeatedly.
The sixth saw McLean done, spread-eagled thrice, and last
time incapable of rising even on all fours.
* * * *
Punch and “ Robbo ” put up a wil'd and whirling
slogging match at Sydney Gaiety, Saturday night, which
lasted three and a half rounds. “ Robbo,” like Roderick
Dhu, “ showered his blows like wintry rain,” and unlike
the Saxon, Punch caught ’em all. Fewer blows with
more force and better direction would have paid better,
for, although Punch flopped and tumbled around, looking
more like an inebriated straddle-bug than a boxer, he
came up again and again with a vicious grin, and
bashed at “ Robbo’s ” provision department with both
hands. To protect his commissariat “ Robbo ” left his
jaw open, and quick as a flash Punch fell upon it, and
sent “ Robbo ” to the boards twice. Halfway through
the fourth round three sledge-hammer blows on the body
cracked “Robbo’s” firebox, or otherwise damaged his
engines, and he surrendered, leaving Punch gasping, but
happy.
* * $ *
The Starlight-Squires riot (it was nothing else)
in Melbourne on Monday night was remarkable chiefly for
the utter disregard of rules shown by both bruisers. In a
vicious rally in the fourth round the black Whirled Squires
right off his feet and banged him into his corner with a
sounding flop. Result, disqualification there and then.
* * * *
Return fight between Hock Keys and Monty
Andrews at Sydney National Sporting Club was wildly
exciting, brimful of skilful fist and foot work, but
sadly deficient in power. Neither of the combatants
carried a real knock-out blow in his armament. Keys
certainly showed greater skill, and made a much better
display than in the previous battle of a few weeks ago.
He was in better condition, didn’t peter out in the rallies,
and kept his finger more continuously in the pie.
Andrews only bucked up to any appreciable extent in the
fourth—all the rest were Keys’ on points. In the ninth
a low left apparently landed on Andrews’ groin, and he
dropped and lay groaning. As the referee didn’t see the
blow Dr. Thring was called in, and, after 20 minutes,
examined Monty and pronounced that there was no indi-
cation of recent injury, and Keys was declared winner.
* * * * *
Welters George Johns and Ted Nelson fight at
Sydney National S.O. seven weeks hence. Johns didn’t
show nearly his old form when opposed to Melbourne Ed.
Williams recently ; he had been too long laid by to get
properly ready in the time available, but with seven weeks
atop of the four or five occupied preparing for the pre-
vious fight, the Australian top-notcher will be very close
to the man he was two years ago, especially as his health
is good and he is years short of 30 yet.
* * * *
“ Hiphen ” : I flatter myself I am a lover of
sport; therefore when, one morning last week, I saw
from the tram that was bearing me citywards a cavalcade
consisting of two youths, a rat in a trap, and an excited
fox-terrier wending towards the open space at the St.
Kilda Junction, I became interested. The dog was throw-
ing somersaults and fits round the trap and was relating
in most violent language what he was going to do to the
rodent when he got it by itself. Attracted by the hound’s
boastfulness, I stepped off the tram in order to bear a
hand. By the time the rat—which was clinging to the
farthest corner, like a sick kitten to a hot brick —was
shaken from its stronghold, the terrier was foaming at
the mouth with anxiety. What, he wasn't going to give
that rat wasn’t worth mentioning. The big buck rodent
started off down the road at a hand gallop, with the
canine in hot pursuit. For the first few furlongs the rat
made the pace and seemed to be going for the lap prizes.
At the turn into the straight the terrier drew his
whip and, with a splendid sprint, drew up on 4o the
leader. I thought the race was all over, when I
noticed a distinct disinclination on the dog’s part
to overhaul his opponent. He just kept a length
or so behind and (I blush for the whole canine
race) barked. Yes, he barked —this dog of a dog. To end
the race and a painful episode, the rodent, which all
through had run a magnificent race, retired down a drain.
The wretched hound immediately became ferocious, nnd.
snarled round the drain in a most determined manner.
He moved off when he saw me coming. He guessed that
I would have disqualified him for life. The only consola-
tion that I received for my ruptured tram fare was the
look of disgust that appeared on the faces of the two
youths when another scandalised witness of the “ schlein-
ter ” observed, “ It’s a guid dorg yon, but he must ’ave
sore teeth ! ”
(Continued on page 53.)


DIABETIC
Patients will hear of
something; to their ad-
vantage by writing to
the Diabetic Institute,
St. Dunstan’s Hill, Lon-
don, E.C.
NOTHING TO PAY.
RED BIRD
BICYCLES
SHerrm and Gilbert Footballs.
IMicholl’s Special Golf Clubs and Balls,
Egrg and Pear-shaped Striking: Bags.
Corbett Boxing Gloves.
Tennis Balls.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Ltd., 357 George St., Sydney.
A
41
HOTELKEEPERS! Make your own AERATED
WATERS and SAVE from £6 to £lO on every
100 dozen of Waters used In your hotel.
THE AUSTRAL
Aerated Water Machine
(Improved Patent)
Is now in use in many of the leading hotels and clubs in
Australia and New Zealand. Prospective (N.Z.) buyers are
invited to refer to :
THE WORKING MEN’S CLUB, WELLINGTON (N.Z.)
THE CENTRAL HOTEL, WELLINGTON (N.Z.)
Etc., Etc.
For Catalogues and Prices write to
ECKERSLEY & SONS, Melbourne.
m
WATERPROOF
HORSE#COW RUGS
Rug your Animals with ABERDEEN (Reg;.) RUGS.
You will make Money
and save Feed by using
Our Rugs.
Universally Used.
The ‘ABERDEEN’ Brand.
ASK YOUR STOREKEEPER, OR WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLETS ON “ RUOGING STOCK,” TO
SMITH, COPELAND and CO.,
210 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Waterproof Tarpaulins and Tents a Speciality.
m
m
CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIVER
TABLETS are indispensable to all medicine
chests. They aid digestion, promote the appetite,
stimulate the liver, keep the bowels open and
restore all the internal organs to a natural, healthy
condition.*
T7OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-C ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King- Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
nttice. Proprietor — GEO. IK. ELLIS.
WILLIAMS’
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
m
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
J#"" Every Bar weighs 17 Honest
English Ounces, divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never be without it.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
SNARPSNOOTINtS
m
For Sport and War.
0 By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, Posted 1/2.
W. W. Greener’s New Miniature Club
Rifles, 310 and 297/230. The Best Rifles
on the market for Kangaroo Shooting
and Ladies’ Rifle Clubs.
W. W. Greener’s well-known Guns, Match
Rifles, &c., Reloading Tools for 310
Rifles. A large stock on hand.
Catalogues on application.
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative),
CHAS GILBERT’S
Q
U
E
E
N
S
T.
THAT WINTER SUIT
Let it be a good one. You know yourself it pays to wear
the best. A handsome Serge Suit of pure indigo blue will
make a welcome addition to your wardrobe.
Our Indigo Serges cost us an extra high figure, because we
buy a fabric that is guaranteed fast color.
Cold-water shrunk, then made up with all the skill the
best tailors can command.
Hair cloth through fronts, ensuring permanently smooth
fit. Shoulders built broad, and finish simply faultless.
Oar Finest, Hand -finished
Made-to-Measure Suits - -
60/- to 85/*
“ Economic”
finished
Machine-
35/- to 50/-
Write for Patterns to-day.
REMEMBER —We guarantee satisfaction.
m
B
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
i
mm
D
J>\c
CotcAf
C U*
cv
%
t t»eW
#W'
Hoe
«, * c
otv
•THCV rel'® C *
<£cS«rf„« ...
oW*"**
Sydney Depot:—
150 Clarence Street,
The Japs, for all their activity and dash
as fighters, are not a strong people. Their upper
intellectual powers are limited, and they die
easily in a cold climate. The Russians die easily
in a warm, humid climate. A long land war
between the Monkey and the Bear should prove
immensely interesting to students.
Victorian Premier Bent is hardly able to
open his mouth now without putting his huge foot
in it. The other day he bellowed at Public Ser-
vice candidate Gaunson for saying that he (Bent),
though now denouncing pensions as immoral con-
tracts that should be precipitately broken, had not
voted against the Service-Berry Bill of ’83 by
which an additional 2500 servants were added to
the pension list, and that he should therefore close
his mouth on the subject now. Bent, “speaking
from memory,” straightly denied this; whereupon
Gaunson quoted chapter and verse of Hansard
proving his case, and wound up with the nasty
recommendation to heed the advice of Coke “ not
to trust to the uncertain testimony of slippery
memory.” Bent, at latest, was understood to be
inquiring who the deuce Coke was, and what coal-
mine he owned.
Interesting and instructive Argus item :—
A spirited criticism of Mr. Mackinnon’s speech at
Prahran followed. Mr. Bent challenged Mr. Mackinnon
to say what difference there was between him (Mr. Mac-
kinnon) and the Labor party. His extensive knowledge
of land values enabled him to riddle Mr. Mackinnon’s un-
improved land values tax. He proved that to raise
£420,000, as proposed by Mr. Mackinnon, it would be
necessary to impose a land tax of lOd. in the £1.
According to the unspeakably ignorant Bent, it
seems, therefore, that the total value of land in
Victoria is only £10,080,000 instead of the usual
official estimate, which sets down the value, with-
out improvements, at over £112,000,000 —more
than 11 times Bent’s figure. Even the present
land tax of nominally 3d. in the £, which exempts
all Victorian town and city lands, and only touches
one-eight of the country lands, which also never
values any country land at over £4 per acre, even
when it is worth £40, and which values two-thirds
of it at only £1, and then exempts £2500 of the
value of each taxed estate —even this ghost of a
tax yields close on £100,000 a year ! How does a
man like Bent, with less information than is pos-
sessed by the ordinary corporation laborer, ever
climb into high places ?
Yes-No Reid, whining because the Gover-
nor-General sent for Watson and not himself, the
leader of the Opposition, says that a “constitu-
tionalist like Hercules Robinson wouldn’t have
made such a mistake.” Well, Henry Parkes, who
was probably as much of a constitutionalist as
Hercules Robinson, and who was Reid’s leader at
the time, advised Carrington to do something a lot
more ‘ ‘unconstitutional.” JackWanthadcarried
a catch-vote against Parkes; “nine gentlemen,”
Parkes wrote in his Autobiography, “who usually
voted with the Government, thought it their duty
to vote on this motion in response to Mr. Want’s
appeal.” Then —
Next morning, on behalf of my colleagues and for my-
self, I tendered the resignation of the Government. In
conversation, Lord Carrington asked whether, in my
opinion, he should send for Mr. Want ? I replied that
because by the success of his motion he was the direct
cause of our retirement, he appeared to be the proper per-
son-to form a Government to supply our places.
And Jack Want was sent for, though by that time
he had taken a ticket for Japan. By the way,
too, Northcote’s House of Commons experience
makes him likely to be a much more skilled con-
stitutionalist than was Robinson.
Advt. in Brisbane Courier :—
T EDGER KEEPER, 30, energetic, experienced,
■*-* wants position where crawling isn’t mistaken for
ability ; any salary. Box P. 44, this office.
Wells’ “Food of the Gods,” which made
hens grow to the size of elephants, may prove
only an anticipation of reality. Dr. Hatai, of
Chicago University, claims to have found in
“Lecithin” a food which makes animals grow 60
Eer cent, faster than ordinarily. It is made of
rain matter, white corpuscles of blood, and a
phosphorus extracted from eggs, and should be
nasty enough to be effective.
It is announced that when the Tasmanian
Leg. Council again throws out his Occupancy Tax
Bill, Premier Propsting will dissolve the Assembly.
What good that will do the Lord only knows, but
that blessed thing called Precedent says that
when Dodery’s dog bites Propsting,- Propsting
should kick himself as a warning to Dodery’s dog
not to do it again.
Thomas Bunt was recently charged at
Goulburn (bi.S.W.) with failing to provide suffi-
cient food for his child. He pleaded that h s
eldest son had met with an accident, his eldest
daughter was severely burned, his wife was ill,
and his wages were £1 a week. He had to pay
for medicine, and 4s. a week rent. He was
acquitted. Seems pertinent to ask noisy advo-
cates of immigration to note cases like that.
The Australasian did Bent poor service
when, illustrating his Brighton meeting, it de-
picted him in half-a-dozen attitudes. Bent doesn’t
pose well. There is a picture of a turnip-head on
a huge mass of stomach, supported by two brief
legs, with a big fist projected into the air, and a
handkerchief twisted round his bull neck to ab-
sorb the moisture. Bent “ takes ” better seated —
there isn’t so much of him showing.
In face of the facts, the correspondence
that took place between Reid and Deakin on the
day the Federal Parliament met the Watson
Ministry is funny. Reid went around trying to
bluff himself into the position of leader of the
combined Opposition. The trick didn’t come off.
Speaker Holder let it be known that he intended
to “see” Deakin first on the Opposition side.
That would have blotted out Reid in one act.
Reid realised the fact, and immediately rushed off
to his room and began a letter, “Dear Deakin.”
In that letter he offered to allow Deakin to speak
first —which meant allowing him to be recognised
as Opposition leader —in order to prevent “a
collision.” As it happened, the Speaker had
already decided that there should be no collision.
Reid would have been a suppressed man if he had
tried to collide. So he promised not to collide.
The ancient and smellsome town of Parra-
matta had a motley gathering, the other day, of
Women’s Bees, Liberal and Deform Leaguers,
A.P.D.A.’s, L.O.L.’s, and sundries, and decided
that the Joseph candidate at next election must
be —
1. A Protestant.
2. A Freetrader.
3. A Reformer.
In favor cf—
Reduction of members.
Financial economy.
Upholding the honor and dignity of Parliament.
Extensive water conservation scheme.
Opening Parliament by prayer.
The mental squint of royal personages is
humorous when it takes a legal turn. - The two
eldest daughters of that shocking old sinner, the
King of the Belgians, have actually been trying to
upset the will of dear mama, on the ground that
they are not getting their Rights. Their awful
dad is holding the property, and they are yelling
for “justice” against the old man. There is not
a personally earned penny in the whole royal
family circle. The daughters, like their parents,
have been creatures of unreasonable Privilege all
their born days. They have no ordinary citizens’
Rights, inasmuch as they are safeguarded from
ordinary citizens’ wrongs, yet they call themselves
unjustly treated by a precious Royal Marriage
Act which was passed before they were born.
The Victorian railways are beginning to
show a better financial face under Commissioner
Tait. That well-advertised person comes from a
country where 10 hours constitutes a day’s work,
and he is slowly superseding the local 8-hour day
by one of 10 hours. In the House of Reps, the
other night, M.P. Mauger read this issued to
signal-men:—
Commencing on 18th inst., your cabin is to be a
10-hours box, and your shifts, week about, from 5 a.m. to
3 p.m., and 3 p.m. to finish (about 1 a.m.)
And yet there are alleged statesmen who declare
that State servants should not have any Arbitra-
tion Court to appeal to from the sweating tactics
of Deform Governments.


Oou
sure
you are enjoying the exact Tobacco that suits you, or are you simply
smoking on, the same old pipe that you have smoked for years — because,
you've smoked it for years ? If you are the least little bit inclined to make a
change, do it now, for never in the history of Tobacco manufacture was
there such a wonderful improvement, both in the growing of the leaf and in
the making of the tobacco therefrom.
You would be pleasantly surprised to find that in
K
cco
you had found something far and away better than anything you had dreamt
oi. There is no brand in the World that is so alluring in flavour and solid
in quality as ** Havelock,” and one trial would convince you, that there
is more real satisfaction and pleasure to be got out of smoking a genuine
tobacco than you were aware of.
Try a Plug or a Tin of u Havelock” Tobacco. Smoke it, say, for a month,
and then see if anything would tempt you to go back to any other brand.
“fP*velocl{” mal<es friends and l<eeps them.
25
The stately Eucalyptus bends its head,
And sighs and moans as if all joys had fled.
The sleepy Bear cries : —“Why such sad lament?
I’d like to know what’s ruffled your content.”
“ Alas ! ” the sad old tree says in reply,
“ Once full of joy, and pride, and power was I,
But now my oil’s discarded, and I find
Woods’ Peppekmint Cuke is used by all man-
kind.”*
enclose cheque for that amount, and would ask
you kindly to divide the sum equally between
those institutions. —Yours, etc.,
Freeman & Wallace.”
Melbourne, April 24.
[Cheque for £52 10s. received, and will be
divided equally between the hospitals referred
to.—Ed. A.]
The attention of the reader is called to the firm’s
advt., which appears upon page 31, wherein two
excellent flashlight photographs of the Theatre
Eoyal, Ballarat, showing the immense audiences
assembled, are depicted.*
If the man on the Land wishes to remain
there in Peace, he should employ W. N. Willis,
Land Agent, 21 Bligh-street, as his Agent.*
Right in the heart of Papua, in British
territory, though close up to the German boun-
dary, is a tribe of raft dwellers .Acting Admini-
strator Robinson visited them late last year, but
was disappointed after the vague? yarns he had
heard about “floating villages.’’ It seems that
this tribe, the Siagaras, being weak, used to have
a bad time, arid were gradually driven back until
all that was left of them were forced to take to
Lake Koinea —and that was the start of their raft
life. Both rafts and houses are miserable affairs,
though, and are generally moored on the peaty
edge of the lake, which, though deep in most
places, covers less than six square miles.
Mr. E. T. DAVENPORT, Valley Head. Ala.,
writes: —
“I have used Jayne’s Expectorant in my family for
CROUP, and FIND NOTHING TO EQUAL IT.”*
i^Lrligsßaj
•sc*^
Melbourne
Branch—
W. WOOLLEY
AND SON,
Equitable
Building’.
QUM EN S LAND
Branch—
11. .J. DIDDAMS
AND CO.,
Brisbane.
Catalogues Free.
BE PROGRESSIVE. Do vou believe in NEW IDEAS
and NEW METHODS? Then use
WABASH BUSINESS SYSTEMS.
They Cut down TIME and LABOR—does that
mean money to you ?
The PRINCIPAL has “grip” and control of
affairs hitherto unknown.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent.
m
Engineman’s Master Key
Second Edition.
All Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade arid Mining Regulations.
360 Pages over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. it. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
1 111 V
The marvellous remedy for Asthma, BRONCHITIS and
Complaints o: the Respiratory Organs. Instant relief and
rare Recommended by the entire medical protession. Price
2 6 p©* uox. Trial dox free lrom CuaNFORD ei: CO.,
1 V 6 Coronation riouse, Lunyas’ Avenue, Condon.'
- ■ "
SEMATONE POWDER aUGARETT
:s
Maoriland’s gain in population from excess of
births over deaths and of arrivals over departures
for the past four years
1900 .. 14,177
1901 .. 19,379
1902 .. 20,272
1903 .. 24,576
Last year’s gain by immigration in excess of emi-
gration was 11,275, or 1822 more than it was in
the whole 10 years of the reigns of Hall,
Whitaker, Atkinson, Stout, and Vogel, from
1881 to 1890. Ballance came into office on
January 24th, 1891. His critics said —“ All right,
but wait awhile.” And after waiting this long,
the foregoing is the result —a greater gain of out-
side population in one year than the whole of the
others could show in 10. Where Maoriland has
proved the way, is Australia afraid to follow ?
»
“W.” forecasts some of the developments of
Chinese labor on the Rand :—
Lots of the Chinese in Australia have written to their
relations in south-eastern China, where the Rand Chows
will be drafted from, cautioning- them to avoid the Trans-
vaal, as the white man is a robber. They are told that
the black man will not work for less than 90 dollars a
month, so the white man is getting Chinamen to come to
work for 80 dollars. Now the contempt of a Chow for a
nigger is great. So you can understand what the coolie
thinks when he hears of the nigger who, in his own
country, spurns the wage to be given to him—the yellow
him of the most superior race on earth. But even these
letters will only reach a few thousand of the inhabitants.
The first draft will be easily got, and I wish the mine-
owners joy of their yellow miners when the latter
find that they have to' live in compounds. The Chow
isn’t like the nigger. When he is off duty he likes to be
his own boss, and he’s going to be, or there’s going to be
the funniest sort of a strike that has ever struck South
Africa. It might not come just at first. And just here
let me say that the second draft of coolies will cost the
mine-owners a bit, for by that time those of the first con-
tingent will have written fully to their friends and many
more will have been warned to keep away. But the draft
will be made up all the same, for the mine-owners will
bribe the viceroy of the province, and the men will be
found. The third draft will cost them a bit more, for the
viceroy will see he has got a soft thing on and will raise
his terms. And so on till the limit is reached. But long
before that, the compound system will have been abolished
to the mutual satisfaction of the employers and the
coolies. The thin end of the wedge will have been got in
and Chinese skilled labor will have been introduced.
Then there will be a Lambing Flat on a big scale, and,
judging by the temper of the whites just now, a rebellion.
Some sort of a rising may take place with the arrival of
the first contingent of Chows.
Temper of the whites ? Well, this is what I mean by
.that. On the railways under construction, the Kaffirs
get 3s. 6d. a day and"their tucker. The white man gets
5s. a day and finds himself. I opened a cabinet-maker’s
shop while I was in Jewhannesburg. We used to take a
loaf of bread and a tin of sardines or something like that
down with us for lunch. Often there would be a lump of
bread over, and it would be thrown on a shelf. Real
decent fellows used to come in and ask to be allowed to
lie down on the shavings. They would sight the scraps—
some a week old —and it was pitiful to see those fellows.
I’ve seen quite a couple of hundred in line outside one of
the restaurants waiting for a chance to get scraps.
It means a good thing for me if the Chinese are admitted
into South Africa, but all the same I say “ God help her ! ”
for blood will surely flow.
FREE HEALTH LECTURES.
The great success attending the delivery of Mr.
W. F. Hall’s scientific and eminently descriptive
and delightful discourses upon public health, de-
livered throughout Victoria, may be judged by the
following excerpts from the Melbourne journals to
date. Mr. Hall is a lecturer of singular power
and effective delivery, and large and appreciative
audiences signify his popularity and ability. In
the interests of public health, Mr. Hall lectures
under the auspices of The Freeman and Wallace
Medical Institute, Sydney and Melbourne, and
his tour through the provinces of Victoria has
received the highest enconiums from the Press and
from leading members of the clerical, professional,
commercial and social spheres. The appreciation
shown to the lecturer proves the great thirst for
knowledge evinced by the public in matters in
which their benefit or general health is at all times
interested, and the great good accruing from the
efforts of the Specialists of the Institute
The Age, Melbourne, of April 26, 1904, remarks :
“Two public health lectures were delivered
on last Sunday afternoon and evening at the
Theatre Royal, under the auspices of the Free-
man and Wallace Medical Institute. The
building was crowded on both occasions, and
the lecturer, Mr. W. F. Hall, succeeded in
engaging the earnest attention of his audiences
throughout both discourses and proved an able
exponent of the laws that govern physical
health. The directors of the Institute, in place
of taking up a collection, made a donation of 50
guineas to the funds of the Melbourne and
Homoeopathic hospitals.”
The Herald, Melbourne, April 25th, 1904, under
the title of “ Health Lectures,” comments :
“Under the auspices of the Freeman and
Wallace Medical and Surgical Institute, two
health lectures were delivered yesterday after-
noon and evening, in the Theatre Royal, by Mr.
W. F. Hall, diagnostician and travelling repre-
sentative to the Institute. The afternoon
address was for ladies only, and was entitled
“Suffering Woman and Her Heroic Fortitude ” ;
and the evening discourse, entitled “ Our Dis-
obedience of Nature’s Laws,” was restricted to
men. Both lectures contained much valuable
information, and were listened to with marked
attention. It was announced that, instead of
making a collection for charitable purposes,
Messrs. Freeman and Wallace would give £5O to
be divided equally between the Melbourne and
Homoeopathic Hospitals.”
In accordance with the determination of the
Specialists of the Institute to devote 50 guineas
to the Melbourne hospitals in the service of the
sick and suffering, as mentioned in the above,
a communication from them and a notification of
the receipt of the cheque appears in the columns
of the Argus, April 26, in the list of “ Hospital
Donations” :
To the Editor of the Argus.
“ Sir. —During the course of the public health
lectures, delivered at the Theatre Royal this
afternoon and evening by Mr. W. F. Hall, the
lecturer intimated that, in connection with the
occasion, we had arranged to donate a sum of
50 guineas to the funds of the Melbourne and
the Homoeopathic Hospitals. Herewith we
Public opinion in Britain as to the ‘ ‘ Taff
Yale decision,” which made trades-unionism prac-
tically useless, is shown by the House of Commons
carrying by a majority of 39 votes, against the
Government, a private Bill restoring trades-
unions to the legal position they held before that
grossly inequitable decision was given.
There is a lady in Sydney who claims to
subsist entirely on peanuts. The peanut craze is
well-known in America among some of the cranks
of that country, where you go from vegetarians to
fruitarians, from fruitarians to seedarians, and
then end the monkey play by getting down to
nutarians. The Sydney woman wears sandals, and
goes in for the higher moral and physical develop-
ment. It is not possible, says she, to attain to
any really “high plane unless you are prepared
to subsist on nuts. Her diet consists of two
meals of peanuts daily and a little milk. She
has her rooms over a well-known Sydney restaurant
where the savory odor of fried omelettes must be
well-calculated to break her up.
Recently the two wives of a bigamist
waited for him outside a gaol on the day of his
release, with a view to assaulting him bitterly and
jointly. But they knew not the guile of man, nor
the tender heart of woman. He sized up the
situation in an instant, and, with a cry of joy, em-
braced the bigger of the two wives and said that
his happiness was now complete. The bigger wife
wavered in her fell purpose, and when the smaller
wife hit her husband across the back with a thick
stick while he was still clasped in her arms, she
went over to the enemy there and then. By the
time a policeman had dragged the two ladies
apart, and charged them with unseemly disturb-
ance in the streets, the husband was out of sight.
He has remained that way ever since.
“ Curlew” : Would advocate vegetarianism
as a fast-dye cure for tobaccoism in all forms.
Have been a tobaccoite for 12 years by choice, and
a vegetite for eight months by compulsion. Found
in four months a growing distaste for pipe.
Changed brands several times with same result—
all tobacco flavorless and nauseous. Had to give
up trying, and now find even the harmful and un-
necessary cigarette too strong for my vegetised
stomach. Don’t know the why or wherefore, but
facts are palpable if I play any tricks with my
resurrected freedom from the tobacco curse.
Otherwise, no exceptional changes in character,
and find no ill effects from indulgence in ginger-
beer and other strong liquors of that ilk.


WORLD’S REMEDY
Good Digestion is the founda-
tion of sound health. Indi-
gestion means physical weak-
ness, pain, languor, depression,
and shattered health. To both
cure and prevent it take
MOTHER
&YRUP
“ I suffered terribly from indiges-
tion,” writes Mr. George Collier,
of 56, Baronia Street, Redfern,
Sydney, N.S.W. " Whatever I
ate seemed to stick in my throat
and caused frightful pains in my
chest. Now, thanks to Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, I am as well as
ever before in my life.”
FOR
SL IHDICESTIOH.
m
m
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition ot 111-healtn.
known as “ run-down ■’ cr “out of sorts.”. Females
of every age find Holloway s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
o>* «
# #
*
<<#
S'
&
m
m
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
mm
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
the POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By De. E. B. FOOTE.
18 iPlaibea. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FItEE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Mature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are .devoted ,to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage which mofeee ,i(t .a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes bo enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book ok Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Uf-to-Date, Easy Conjuring . Tricks kor
Beginners, illustrated. Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to T)ance, Is, post. llow to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book. (Id each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d., Me-
chanic’s Workshop llandybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science ok Like,
10s fid. Aust. Miners’ GuiDE(simple.testS'forminerals),
3s 6d. M ahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chikiquy's Priest, Woman, and tiie Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Datk, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. usfc Established SO 1 ears.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
810
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d., post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. Tiie '.Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is.. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. postpaid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
ERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
THE
MARVEL‘Whirling Spray’
SYRINGE
FOR WOMEN.
Corrects functional irregu-
larities, promotes HGfllth and
Strength, thereby removing the
Cause of
“MENTAL ANXIETIES. 1 "
Price, 15/- (guaranteed 12 months)
post free (with Book of Direc-
tions, invaluableto Ladies)
THE MARVEL CO.,
284 George St., Sydney.
Postal Address-Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
IF YOU WANT IT
itctr rr with a
KODAK
mm
II
Henry Skinner,
Olareiidon-st., South Melbourne.
3 tle V hone No. lOhS. AT E R SL R .
Sir Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, hy
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to bun.
Public and
Private Bails
Cal prod for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DA.MCING FLOOR3.
of various sizes supplied*
Do You Want a New Suit ?'
For £2 we will forward Post Free to any part
of Australia one of our highly finished
Ready-Made
“BULLETIN” SUITS.
This Suit is made of Pure Wool Serge, Indigo
Dye, guaranteed to keep its colour, is Pailor Cut
and Finished, has Padded and Quilted Shoulders,
and is certain to give every satisfaction.
Price List of other goods on application.
Address: —
T. C. BEIRNE &CO-,
Tlio Valley, Brialaane.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9 s per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
tV'fS
m
Text for Parson Bevan and other mongrel-
Australia advocates (Deuteronomy xxii., 9) : -
Thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with divers seeds, lest
the fruit of thy seed which thou hast sown and the fruit
of thy vineyard be defiled.
The essence of the trouble between the
doctors and the A.N.A. in Australia is that some
people who wouldn’t join an ordinary lodge ol
working-men have no hesitation in becoming mem-
bers of the A.N.A., which is supposed to be a
“tony” institution; and the doctors object to
attend professional men and capitalists at the
semi charitable rates framed for the convenience
of small-wage folk.
“Kosciusko” (Mr. Charles Kerry), the well-
known shooter of the N.S.W. Gun Club, writes as follows
concerning “Mullerite,” the new powder: “I have had
three wins out of four since I used Mullerite, and have
tried the effect of Mullerite in one barrel and Ballistite in
the other. I noticed a distinct difference for the better
with Mullerite. It has absolutely no recoil, and it is clean
in the barrel. I have given a number of cartridges to
members of the Gun Club, and they all speak very highly
of Mullerite. I consider there is a great future before it.
As “ Kosciusko ” conducted a series of trials with various
powders, on Sydney Gun Club grounds, his testimony is
particularly valuable. Mr. Charles Rowley, secretary of
the Forbes Gun Club, writes: “ When Mullerite becomes
generally known it will have a big sale.” The velocity of
Mullerite is higher than that of any other powder. Donald
Mclntosh, the famous Victorian shot, won the Grand
Prix de Paris with Mullerite.* ,
S. Australia has got its cost of education
down to a very fine point. For some years past,
in spite of the fact that it has collected no fees,
the neticost to the State has. been the lowest m
Australasia, excepting only in Tasmania ; and last
year the figures were dragged down lower than ever
—down to £3 Bs. l|d. per average child in attend-
ance, as against a Commonwealth average (for
1902) of £4 2s. 9d. For that year (1902) Westralia,
with £4 18s. 9d., stood top of the class; Victoria,
£4 10s. 3d., second; N.S. Wales, £4 3s. 9d., third.
Per child actually instructed the S. Australian cost
last year was under lid. per week. In the old
days, when fees were collected, the net cost was
Is. 9d. But, though the State is proud of its
economy, there is a good deal in the downward
movement that it ought to blush for. In South
Australia at the best of times the man who draws
£2OO a year regularly is a Fat person who calls no
one uncle, and there are plenty.of schools m charge
of teachers who get less than- £lOO a year: scores,
in fact, of them. Indeed, the salaries of the in-
specting staff run down to £270 a year; and a
good many of the big schools aren’t inspected at
all.
Why do not Australian Judges, usually so
apt to follow English precedent, make a stir to
follow it with regard to the unwholesome practice
of making people kiss the book before committing
perjury in the courts ? Outside the doors of the
probate, divorce, and admiralty courts in London,
the Judges have ordered notices to be posted
informing all and sundry that the uplifted hand
may be substituted for the book-cuddling.
This is not only for people with religions objec-
tions to licking the Word ; the notices are for all.
Thousands of protests against the filthy habit or
kissing a book which meets with all varieties of
disease are made annually in Australia, but with-
out material result. What _ makes the dirty and
foolhardy proceeding worse is that it is backed up
by no real mandate in law. It is an insanitary
habit cultivated by insanitary Judges with the
hair of dead beasts on their heads. No king or
Parliament ever ordered it. Coke, m his Insti-
tutes,” knew nothing of it. It is found existing
in the 17th century, and that is all the authority
it has. Swearing by holding up a hand, or by lay-
ing a hand on the book, are very, very ancient
practices, but book-kissing has not even antiquity
as an apology for its grime.
“ The Prooshan’s ” theory :
Am convinced that trouble, like disease, originates in a
microbe, and when once this trouble ’crobe crawls under
the door-mat it is difficult to shift him. First of all he
nicks little Arthur in the ankle with a hatchet, and gives
Mary a pellet in the leg from Willie’s pea rifle. Next
week he is further afield on the homestead, and the
Waterford filly catches a falling limb from a gum tree and
is shot next day. A day or so later father develops
erysipelas in the head, and aunt Anna dies quite suddenly
at Redfern. Then the ’crobe sits back f°r five days in
order to hatch, and, during this short respite, the afflicted
family gets time to sigh heavily. On the following
Tuesday the tunnel falls in on the upper level, and the
Inspector of Mines steps off the coach next morning in
time to condemn the mine. By this time the ’crobe is in
full swing, and takes a fall out of the red heifer that dad
wanted for the show. Old Jessie bolts with the dray and
smashes Thompson’s piano that had been lent for the
concert. I firmly believe that if sulphur, carbolic, or
other disinfectant were liberally used the moment the
first accident happened, the ’crobe would die, and that
old saw about troubles never coming singly would be
bowled or caught behind the wicket.


CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and LIVER
TABLETS, which are perfectly harmless, gently
stimulate liver and bowels to expel poisonous
matter, cleanse the system and absolutely cure
constipation and sick headache.*
“ T.D.” from Brighton (Vic.) :
Bent is a miserable failure whichever way you take him.
In his “ policy speech ” at Cheltenham he disclosed the
petty municipal sort of mind with which he rules Victoria
by first describing- in minute detail the alterations which
have been made in the boundaries of bis own electorate.
Then he went on to indicate the little patches of land the
Government talks of throwing- open, and gave the names
of the parishes in which those questionable areas are to
be found. Having once got on the land, the adhesive and
gummy mind of Thomas rooted itself there, and, although
be made feeble efforts once or twice to get along to some-
thing else, he inevitably harked right back to the land.
He stayed on the land all the evening.
Amusements.
piTZCERALD BROTHER S’
CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
BEL IVE O R E PARK,
IMMENSE SUCCESS
OF THE SECOND CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
Great Reception was Accorded the
MARVELLOUS GASCOIGNES,
THE JAPANESE WRESTLERS,
DR. GORDON, IN NEW ACTS,
THE CYCLE WHIZZ,
And the Great Double Company, EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY’S and SATURDAYS,
When Children will be Admitted for SIXPENCE.
The Splendid Band Under the Supervision of
HERR VON DER MEHDEN.
PRICES—4s, 35., 2s. and Is. Telephone. 1004.
FRANK JONES.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
THE PERMANS’
SUCCESSFUL PANTOMIME,
Little Red Riding Hood.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Paling's.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. BLAND HOLT.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING, TO-NIGHT,
BLAND HOLT
and his
ESTABLISHED ORGANISATION OF DRAMATIC
FAVORITES,
in the Mastodan Melodramatic Spectacle,
THE GREAT MILLIONAIRE.
Popular Prices —3s, - 2s & Is. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
QRITERiON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
lIAWTREY’S ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in the World-Famed Comedy Drama,
A MESSAGE FROM MARS
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 7, Grand Revival of
LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is. (No Early Doors.)
Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8, Wednesday Afternoon, at 2,
THE LIGHT THAT FAILED,
Dramatised by “ George Fleming ” from Rudyard
Kipling’s Famous Novel of the same name, presented
by arrangement with Miss Olga Nethersole.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USITAL.
QUEEN’S HALL, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. ~ .. Mr. Herbert Flemming.
PIERROT ENTERTAINERS
QUEEN’S HALL,
EVERY NIGHT. MATINEE, WEDNESDAYS.
PRICES —3s., 25., Is. H. N. SOUTHWELL, Manager.
THE MUTOSCOPE.
WONDI2RFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
„„d OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels. Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. H arry Rick Mins.
Instantaneous and Emphatic Success of the V ery Latest
Importation, SILLY BILLY ELLIOTT.
Magnificent Reception of the Very Latest,
MISS MAY MAUDE DUPREZ.
LAST NIGHTS of Mr. FRED". RUSScLL & COSTER JOE.
A Success of Enthusiasm, THE TWO BELLS.
Also, THE SIX EMPIRE GIRLS..
Mr. TOM DAWSON, Miss CECILE STEPHANO,
Miss RAY JONKS, Miss ELLA WELLINGTON, Mr.
FRANK YORKE, Mr. SAM WILSON.
Opera house, Melbourne.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE MARVELLOUS UESSEMS.
NAT CLIFFORD in New Songs and Dances.
Reappearance of ERNEST FITTS.
ERNEST SULLIVAN, MAGGIE FRASER, LES wArTON,
IRVING SAYLES, WILL WHITBURN.
Miss MAUD BEATTIE.
COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS, introducing
Miss FANNY POWER and Miss MAUD FANING.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE DARLING OF THE CODS.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 7,
Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S FAMOUS COMPANY,
' including
Miss MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNICHT in
THE SIGN OF THE CROSS.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sub-Lessee William Anderson.
Business Manager .. Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING,
MR. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO., in the
Great Melodramatic Success,
Her Second Time on Earth.
Miss EUCENIE DUGGAN as DORA CRAY.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S
Sole Lessee
Sub-Lessee
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
.. .. Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
.. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
FOR EIGHT NIGHTS ONLY,
MR. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMEDY COMPANY
in
THE MARRIAGE OF KITTY.
KT PRICES AS USyAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Mt. Morgan (Q.) copper furnace returned for
March 45 tons matte, containing 23 tons of copper
and 3790 z. gold, from 549 tons ore and by-products.
If the co. sells its matte well, this should realise on
present market values £2300. What it has cost to
produce is another matter. Assuming that the smelting
costs are £2 per ton and the by-products and ores stand in
at a cost all round of £1 per ton, the co. should be
earning by this branch of the work a profit of about £650
per month, i.e., with March return'and metal prices as a
basis. Although this appears to be a favorable result, it
cannot be argued that it enhances the div.-paying
capacity of the co., as comparison with the old method of
realising with the ore (leaching, etc.) is not easy, data
being scant. The whole thing is surrounded with “ ifs,”
and copper results at Mount Morgan must as yet be
regarded as quite experimental. Recent rains have given
a grand supply of water —one estimate is 330,000,000
gallons; another 220,000,000. The man who made the
220,000,000 estimate says there are fish already a foot long
in the dams. He didn’t give the co. as much water as the
other man, but he gave it more fish.
* * * *
Two “ eminent engineers,” reported as on their
way to inspect mineral leases of Cloncurry (N.Q.) syndi-
cate, are, doubtless, representing Coats, the cotton
people, who have been at the back of the syndicate.
Though Cloncurry is a remarkably rich and extensive
copper field, Coats would get a quicker return from
cotton growing in Bananaland. The trouble of Cloncurry
is its inaccessibility. A vast area is at present worked by a
small army of mine-owners, each with a handful of miners.
The year’s dispatches to southern smelters are approxi-
mately 700 tons of carbonates, going on an average 30
per cent, copper, 3dwt. gold, and 3oz. silver. The
field is capable of a big output of metal, but at an
equally big cost. Coats’ syndicate got its railway bill,
and proposed to build a line from Cloncurry to connect
with Normanton, but could not get the money—other
people’s money. Just as well —for the other people. A
line built to Normanton would be futile ; it would
have to be built miles out into the Gulf
before it would get near a steamer of ordinary draught.
Coats’ engineers will inspect the Cloncurry leases, and, if
they don’t study the marine survey of the Gulf, will
probably advise their people to hang on, and wait until
the clouds roll by. Cloncurry can absorb a cool million
without a wince. It was supposed when the Bill passed
that the awful respectability of those behind it, and then-
enormous wealth, made the railway a certainty. But it
didn’t.
*, * * *
Ah Sin and his brothers are usually handy when
“divvies’’are being dealt out. Ruby United (Charters
Towers) paid out a week or so ago, and Bright’s Exchange
was besieged by Chinese who had- again got on to a
winner. Said that over 67 Celestials participated in this
dividend.
o » » *
Etheridge goldfield (N.Q.) is chiefly remarkable
for just “missing the ’bus.” Years ago the Assembly
passed a Bill to give it a railway ; the other House threw
it out. Just after the Chillagoe Act was engineered
through a syndicate approached Philp with a request for
a similar Act —really an amplification of the Chillagoe
promoters’ original scheme ; but Philp was not game to
take on a second edition of the Chillagoe fight. He
refused. Then the Einasleigh Co. loomed up with good
London backing, and spent about £60,000 in developing
its property, and this brought the Etheridge a little
nearer to the coast. Then the first Chillagoe crisis
blew in and the railway schemes blew out. The
moneyed people of the Einasleigh crowd decided to
take a rest. They had got a freehold and a good deal of
copper exposed. Philp then offered Acts similar to
Ohillagoe’s to any one who would build lines ; but it was
too late —no takers. The era of guarantees had come in.
Five years ago the company promoter was delighted if he
secured statutory railway rights ; now he wants those
rights plus a 3 per cent, guarantee, which is about
equivalent to saying that he is to take the profits when
there are any, and tjkstate is to take the losses when
there are any. '
♦ * * *
In conjunction with a London co. (largely
Bewick, Moreing, and Co.), Chillmoe recently undertook
to guarantee part of interest oncost of constructing a
line to the Etheridge. Nothing less than an expenditure
of £500,000 would do any good in a Chillagoe-Etheridge
proposal, and even £500,000 would not permit of any
reduction for underwriting. That £500,000 is not likely
to loom up for a few years yet. Prom a shareholders’
point of view Chillagoe appears a hopeless case. So far
the debenture-holders have been all right, but they’ll
have to bat presently.
a * * *
Queensland Geologist Rands is said to have
reported favorably upon a gold show north of Mary-
borough, and the usual burst of misguided activity has
ensued. One show has been floated in London, and a man
is on his way to float another. Probably there exists no
better authority on Queensland gold mining than Rands,
so the district is worth watching. Bundaberg, now that
it is likely to be deprived of its Tommy Tanna street
brawl, and Maryborough, sleepy and depressed, could
each do with a miners’ fight occasionally. Barring coal,
the mines at the back of these ports are mostly small and
not worth mentioning.
* * * *
Mount Ideal mine, the latest Maryborough (Q.)
venture, situated near Cordalba, is starting out in real
feline style. Up to the present the mine has to be put
under a microscope, broadside on, in order to be seen.
After about three weeks’ work, a second Huntingdon mill
has been decided on. Reckoned, apparently, that the
second mill will produce the gold,
* * * *
Now that Mayne’s tin (Tas.) has paid its first Is.
div., holders of paid-ups don’t look quite so glum. The
float was one of the neatest little deals out. All the
big men took contributing shares, and offered a parcel of
paids to provide capital. The public rushed in up to 305.,
amazed at promoters deciding to hold contributing shares.
A second thought should have shown that, if, the ground
did not develop well in view of capital in hand calls would
not be lengthy ; so, after all, contributing shares were as
good as paids. There was a talk about a row over the
price at which paids were placed, but it was the fault of
no one that they were bought, except those who rushed
them. About five divs. are said to be in sight, and there is
a remote chance of a lode formation being struck. The
co. is still having a cut at the vein of tourmaline.
* ~ * * *
A small public subscription in Adelaide has
sent out several parties of the unemployed looking for
gold, which is literally everywhere in the neighboring
hills, though always in trifling quantity. With the
Government lending tents, it is found that £5 a week will
support seven camps of four men each. Every single
camp reports the finding of “ colors,” but the gold is
never in payable quantities.
* * *
The lie of the foreign Jew gang of the Rand,
that it is poverty which forces them to ask for cheap
yellow labor, was nailed down lately by the publication of
a list of mining dividends, showing that for last year
alone up to 265 per cent, was paid on the capital. Since
then London Daily Chronicle has issued this list
Par Market
Value. Value.
Rand Mines £448,989 .. £16,837,000
Consolidated Gold Fields .. 2,000,000 .. 11,500,000
Angelo 600,000 .. 3,750,000
Barnato Consolidated .. .. 102,500 .. 2,618,000
City and Suburban .. .. 340,000 .. 2,210,000
Crown Reef 120,000 .. 1,950,000
East Rand 970 000 .. 6,183,300
Geduld 400,000 .. 2,200,000
General Mining .. ' .. .. 1,000,000 '.. 2,875,000
Henry Nourse 125,000 1,062,000
Johannesburg Consolidated .. 2,652,000 .. 6,705,000
May Consolidated .. .. 288,750 .. 982,801
S.A. Gold Trust 750,000 .. 3,187,000
Village Main Reef .. .. 400,000 .. 2,500,000
The Rand Gold Mines is such a poverty-stricken affair
that- it can’t afford to pay white men to work for it —can’t
even afford to pay the black man. But still it is worth
over 37 times more than the present company bought it
for ! For beautiful, high-class lying the Rand robbers
compel admiration. They proceed on the rule that while
you are lying you might as well lie magnificently ; and
they are more magnificent than Solomon.
* * * *
The second year’s profits of the co. which
has got hold of the British tobacco monopoly amounted
to £1,259,700. And It is explained that the monopoly
hasn’t got into fair working order yet.
It might be worth prospectors’ while to see if
they can’t do something with asbestos. The ’Murkan
theatre fire has been responsible for a big increase in the
demand for the mineral, and, as usual, there is said to be
a movement in the States to “ corner ” the supply, which
is limited, most of it coming from Ontario. Asbestos has
been found in half-a-dozen places in Australia, but has
not been worked with any success so far.
* * * *
Of 25 miners who died at Eaglehawk, at the
“ deep ” end of the Bendigo goldfield, during 1903, lung-
disease killed 11. Forty-four per cent, of the miners who
died were killed by this disease ; of those who were not
miners, it killed only 5 per cent. Even Bent might have
heart enough to hurry up legislation to provide for the
better ventilation of these deep, deadly workings.
* * * *
Premier Jimmy, of Westralia, keeps boasting of
the rapidity with which the gold and timber of that State
are being - shipped away. This year he estimates that 77
tons of gold will be exported, and the value of the timber
that will be swallowed up by the foreign combine will ex-
ceed £2,000,000. With the exception of a paltry amount
paid for mining and timber leases and the contributions
received through the railways, the State gains hardly
anything by the gigantic operations of the capitalists,
who are draining the country of its natural wealth.
* * * *
The “20s. Gift” wild cat is building nests all over
the country ; it is in Melbourne now, and Newcastle, and
Brisbane and elsewhere. At Newcastle takings are alleged
to amount to about £9O per day—which shows that New-
castle hasn’t more sense than it knows what to do with.
It is the most up-to-date scheme for robbing 20 Peters to
pay one Paul. The first man to get in is Paul ; the Peters
are all those who get in later and are “ left.”
* * * *
An old-time Sydney firm (Learmonth, Dicken-
son, and Oo.) met its creditors recently. Liabilities,
£33,703 ; assets, £10,162; deficit, £23,541. The genesis of
the firm goes back over half-a-century. The firm was
originally Buyers and Leaimontli, the stores at No. 4
Charlotte-place, an ancient building which still stands
and bears on its side wall the name of another old-time
Sydneyite, “Abraham Polack, Commission Merchant.”
In the early sixties the firm became Learmonth, Dicken-
son, and Co., migrated to Margaret-street, and subse-
quently to Kent-street.
/ * * *
A letter from Bear Creek, Klondike: “Of the
several hundreds of Australians who came in the big rush
of ’9B about 60 or 70 are left, and that number would
quickly dwindle down to about six if they had as much as
they started with. No good new creeks have been found
since we came in, although there were some good * bench ’
claims open at that time, but none that I know of were
staked by an Australian, although several attempts to do
so were made. We were not on to the style here of
‘ approaching ’ an official, without whose co-operation
nothing could be done; Anything known to be good has
been held by concessionaires the last three years,
excepting, of course, ground already staked and held.
These concessions have been fought, but nothing has
come of it. The miners are a cosmopolitan crowd, with
no unity and little sympathy with one another ; conse-
quently the officials have been able to do pretty well as
they please. Of about 7000 people here (Dawson district)
only about 2500 are pick and shovel men ; the rest are
officials, traders and others.”
* * * *
Even this phenomenal season hasn’t saved
south-west Queensland, and the abandonment of runs
continues. Thargomindah is being given up as a bad job ;
it had good grass, but rabbits sprang up in droves, and
served as the last straw to break the holder’s heart.
Kihee and Congie, in the same district, are going the
same way, and Orient, Tenapera, Ohastleton, and Abbots-
ford have gone. Most of these had lately been bank-
holdings.
* * * *
Westralia’s turtle soup factory, run by a
company at Preston Point, outside Fremantle, is
battling along to success. There was a prejudice against
its output for some time because it used turtles to make
its turtle soup with ; but this is wearing off. One 50-case
lot was ordered for Melbourne the other day ; the Itoyal
Arthur took in a consignment for use on the way ’Ome ;
and the concern generally seems to be marching on
to dividends.
* * * *
Under the French State tobacco monopoly
district depots are established for the distribution of
tobacco, and retailers have to stick to certain prices
under heavy penalties. The retail price runs from 7to 15
per cent, above the wholesale price. “ And,” says the
Australian Tobacco Journal, “any tobacconist who
compares these rates with the advance which he is
enabled to charge under existing conditions may well
pray that the threatened interference of the State with
the tobacco trade may be defeated.” Which seems to be
pretty good proof that the State tobacco monopoly would
mean cheaper tobacco.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Died, in London, Nellie Farren, the “ Gaiety Queen,”
who reigned for 30 years. She came to Australia with
the first Gaiety 00., some 14 years ago. Stricken with
paralysis in ’9B, she had a £4OOO “ ben.,” which purchased
for her a comfortable annuity, and on this she ended her
days.
Strong-man Gordon, now with Fitzgerald’s Oircus, is,
like Sandow, a Jew. The Chosen Race can occasionally
acquire muscle as well as money. It sometimes even
acquires a nami like Gordon, or M'Tavish, or Colquhoun.
An elderly gentleman who had heard Patti 40 years
ago, when both were young, went to again hear her
during her recent tour of U.S.A. “Why,” he gasped,
putting down his opera-glass, “ her hair is red, and it
used to be black, and it ought to be white ! ”
S’Africa seems-to-be a good marriage market. Some
half a dozen girls in Pollard’s Opera Co. found husbands
and settled there. They prefer Australian girls to
Australian men, it seems !
Said that ’cellist Herr Hattenbach bought lately in
one of the by-ways of Collingwood (Melbourne) for £6O a
’cello worth £lOO.
Alf. Hill, the composer of that characteristic cantata
“ Hinemoa ” and the Maori opera “ Tapu ” (which is to be
produced by George Edwards in London), has been a
musician since he blew a cornet at a boys’ circus (ad-
mittance Id.), held in a Chinaman’s back yard on Yeebro
Flat some 25 years ago.
The late flower show at Sydney Exhibition Building,
and the excellent concerts accompanying, revived
memories of the building’s famous past. For .years now
the place has been the camping ground of the unem-
ployed, and during several winters the doors have been
thrown open to homeless nomads. But in the old time it
echoed to such singers as lima di Murska, Anna Bishop,
and Agatha States. Nellie Melba and Frances Saville
made early triumphs there. Orlandi, Gussini, and
Santley were among the singers ; while the instrumen-
talists included Ketten, Kowalski, Packer, and Vogrich.
A new health-officer has made a harrowing report on the
sole Hobart theatre. The doors are all below statutory
width, varying from 2ft. (stage exit) to less than 4ft. (dress
circle and pit). Latter should be 9ft. Also, there are not
enough doors. Ventilation is frightfully insufficient, and
sanitary arrangements seriously defective. There is no
fire-curtain, hardly any means of putting out a fire, and
the proscenium ought to be destroyed and re-built.
Dan Barry, striking some parched country up Far
North, announces as an additional attraction that, if the
townships turn up well to his show week-days, he will put
in Sunday praying hard for rain.
“ H.P.” : The “ benefit concert ” business is worked to
death in some parts nowadays. I was recently asked to
take tickets for a concert in aid of a musical lady who was
leaving the district. “ Very kind at assisting anything
for the good of the town ” ; “ always willing in the sacred
cause of charity deserves a good send-off,” etc., etc.
After the affair was over it leaked out that those pushing
the sale of tickets and running the show were creditors of
the lady, and after they were paid (by themselves) the
lady had about 9d. as a “ send-off.”
John Fuller, of the Maoriland ’alls, has been giving a
brand-new “turn” at Wellington Opera House. John
has ambitions as a public man, wherefore he has lately de-
veloped the habit of coming to the front and announcing
that at an early date and with their kind permission he
will probably be a candidate for the city council; and
thereupon he has proceeded to say how he proposes to
deal with the' local garbage nuisance and the wandering
cow. Later on, he says, he might have a go for the
Mayoralty—he reckons it would be a real good thing if
the city had a mayor who could sing “ My Pretty Jane”
to the councillors sometimes. John, by the way, also
threatens to be a candidate for the billet of Mayor of
Christchurch, because the local council wouldn’t let him
give a sacred concert on Good Friday.
.Nat Clifford, the-eccentric comedian just now appearing
at Melbourne Opera House, is about the brightest little
Oockiiey work of his type that Rickards has imported.
Originally a sailor (in tlie navy), Nat chucked up the sea
and took to the'alls some 16 years ago. He began as a
dancer with a quaint elaboration of an old idea m leg 1
mania,” so-called. Then be turned bis touch of origi-
nality to comic song writing, and the invention of
* 1 wheezes ” and “business.” Nat has been a prolific pro-
vider of the things that “fetch a larf ’’ from the music hall
public, and liis name is associated with lots of songs in
which other people have scored successes. For instance,
Vesta Tilley and R. G. Knowles (the star of a variety co.
imported to Australia by Arthur Garner years ago) are
among - the well-known London singers of Nat Cliffords
patter songs. And the rough-and-ready humorist is still
going strong. He talks of writing a book about Australia
—a book of reminiscences, or something'. Probably Nat’s
book will remain in his busy mind until he gets back to
London, and then he will think better of the scheme, but
it is certain that a local man of his kind might produce a
useful crop of Australian character ditties.
Federal Politics.
From Federal Parliament gallery :
As they sat, 25 in front of 43, with none to come against
them, the Federal Labor members looked as if they had
taken a step up. The real figures make 26 on the Watson
side, but Storrer, of Tasmania, sat so far away from the
rest, and so close to the Opposition, that he is hardly to
be reckoned in. The real Democratic party had got all
together in public for the first time, and it has taken just
on three years of constant meeting in private to bring them
to such a stage. They sat close up together, as if for com-
fort. Only three out of the whole party straggled off a
little, and those three are said to be feeling' a
wee bit sore just now: Ronald, the Victorian, who
thought Victoria must have two Ministers, and he be
one ; M'Donald, of Q., who missed his chance because
Deakin tumbled on the Fisher amendment when he was
expected to tumble on the M'Donald ; and Fowler, of
W.A., who thinks that Perth had better claims than
Ooolgardie. But they straggled such a little way as not '
to matter. , , ...
Big John Forrest could not sit quietly in Opposition
and look upon the Labor Ministers calmly. “ Such an
unheard of thing for men in such a minority to ‘
accept the Governor-General's commission. How are .
they going to carry on ?” he yelled. One would have
thought to hear him bullying the Ministers, who were as .
nervous as boys at a new school, that Big John was boss ,
of the situation ; yet hardly an hour had gone by since
Deakin had put his hand quietly on a little arrangement
of John’s and nipped the bud off it. Deakin is not a
Labor man. He is not a snob either. He will, likely
enough, be keen to break up the Watson policy, but he.
was not ready to throw out the new Ministers just be-
cause they were Labor men. Indeed, Big John heard -
some plain talk in the privacy of the old Ministerial room.
The usually gentle Cousin Jack Bonython talked war.
“This Emperor of the West has got so big,” he
said, “that he seems to think that this party ex-
ists just to send him back to office, and it does
not.” Then Isaac Isaacs had his say, and when Big
John was bullying the Ministers because their followers
were so few, and the boxed flocks opposite so many,
he was firing off a temper he had had to keep under in the
private room. He was for an early move because time
will lessen his chances of getting back to power.
Watson took things quietly. He has been taking-
most things quietly this Parliament. Power was bound
to fall into his hands from the time that Kingston’s health
broke up. What annoyed Big John was that the Labor
Prime Minister did not look a bit out of place at the table.
Watson has caught the Deakin trick of not bothering
about an attack like this, but of watching whom it makes
uneasy on the opposite side. Perhaps he had heard the
story of the row among st the old Ministerialists. Anyhow,
in the corner where the Watson gaze travelled very often,
there was a shuffling as if the Cousin Jack and the Lawyer
were going to say in public what they had said in private.
Outside his own solid party, Big John’s enmity is the best
friend the new Prime Minister has.
The “ quiet crisis ” is no accident, and Watson knows
it. Whether his followers outside know it is quite another
matter. A year ago two men in the first Federal
Ministry who had been warm friends set out on different
political drifts. Kingston moved off to the Labor corner ;
Deakin moved off to a corner of his own. Kingston
judged the time as ripe to bring the States to heel. More-
over, he thought, and rightly, that the Australian party
could do democratic work quicker and better in one Par-
liament than it could in six. Also he thought that the
Tory reaction in the States, which has set in, could be re-
versed by the larger powers of the Federation. Deakin
has different Federal views. He thinks that the Federal
power will go further by a quiet absorption of the States
than by a collision. The personal power of Deakin can be
judged from the fact that he has always been able to keep
Kingston under control in Federal affairs, and when
Kingston broke out of the Barton Cabinet it was because
he was in danger of being controlled too long'. The two
friends parted politically, well knowing that the Common-
wealth was only big enough for one of them, and well
knowing that each was bidding for power in his own way.
Watson has stepped into Kingston’s shoes. Probably he
does not see as clearly where the road leads as Kingston
did. Light will come. It is coming fast.
Opposite the Ministers the boxed Oppositionists crowded
together also. Reid was going to be too strong for
Deakin. He wasn’t. He wrote his gentle letter after
Speaker Holder had declared whom he was going to see
first. Deakin does not worry about who is going to lead. He
settled that question when he parted with his old friend
Kingston. “Where are you going to sit?” said Watson
to Deakin in their last interview. “ Right opposite you,”
answered Deakin. “ Poor Reid,” laughed Watson quietly.
He does not reckon it to be “poor Watson” though he
does stand with his back to the wall. This first crisis is
only the prologue to the play. The real struggle comes
when the Reid party is divided up amongst the two men
who kept their feet last week.
“ R. 8.” writes :
Your par re “ Smiler ” Hales and his mutilated hand
tends to the statement that Hales, for purposes of self-
advertisement, told English papers that the loss of his
fingers, which he suffered in Adelaide prior to ’BB, had
been caused by Boer bullets. Knowing the man well, 1
say that the misrepresentation is none of his. He dislikes
the English too much to lie to them in that fashion. I
remember seeing Alf approached by one of the real
English feather-bed war correspondents one night in the
Cheshire Cheese. The Englishman said he believed there
would be trouble in the Balkans.
Hales was morosely bitter—both of us were half dotty
with anguish of the fog. “ Trouble in the Balkans? Hope
so.”
“I—aw —suppose you will be out for the News, Mr.
Hales?”
, “Yes —’spose so.”
“It will be a hard campaign—camping out, don’t you
know ? ”
“ Don’t care —like it.”
“Like it? By Jove, do you really !”
“ Yes, I do. Anyhow, hell’s better than London ! ”
“Ah ! my deap chap, you’ll talk the other way once
you leave here. Why, this is the centre of the Empiah ? ”
“ Oh, damn the Empire ! ”
“ My dear fellow—really! But you don’t meet the real
Englishman abroad, you know. You can only meet him
here.”
“ The only way I want to see an Englishman again once
I get back to Australia is along a gun barrel.”
The Englishman choked a little, said “Well ! oh,
really ! ” and went away.
All sorts of yarns get into English newspapers about the
man who comes from afar. There are many little rags
flourishing on a sort of journalism almost unknown to
Australia ; filling up space every week with the most
trivial personalities, most of them baseless —such as this :
“ Our readers will be glad to know that Mr. Fitzbertie,
the celebrated author of ‘ Bugs of the Fatherland,’ is very
fond of dachshunds. He also cycles and motes, and is a
member of the Hoodoos.”
Or this —-
“ Sir Filbert Bumper, M.P. for Over Wallop, is not only
a literary man. He was for many years an explorer in
Sydney, South Australia, and discovered the first Aus-
tralian gold at Parramatta in 1894. He also collects
chameleons, and insists on Beethoven music at breakfast.”
There are villainous self-advertisers who chase the per-
sonal paragraphists—wasters like Hall Caine and Marie
Corelli ; but it is a deadly insult to say that Alf. Hales is
one.


CONQUERING DISEASE
The FREEMAN & WALLACE triumphal tour of the Country Centres of Population
in the State of Victoria.
Educational, Interesting, and Powerfully Instructive Lectures. The famous Medical diagnostician to the Institute, Mr. W. F. Hall, and his great services to suffering
humanity. Some Flashlight Photographs taken en route. Theatres, Lecture Halls, and Public Assembly Booms crowded to the Doors, shewing the great value of
The Freeman & Wallace Lectures, and their Moral Affinity with the Public Good.
m
*&&m*
<&A
a
K:
/x
«« m
95»~ -■«
»
Vifi
C
raw
tX?X>
lx
iV'iW
r l " l wi«ißw,
r **o;
%
i'
£
Lecture to Ladies only, delivered by Mr. William Fletcher Hall, in the interests of The Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical
Institute, Sydney and Melbourne, at Her Majesty's Theatre, Ballarat (Vic.), on Tuesday, March 29th, 1904.
Photo, by Richards <h Co.
COLAC and WARRNAMBOOL
NEWSPAPERS SAY.
We give here a few brief extracts from Colac
and Warrnambool journals commenting upon
the delightfullj' descriptive discourses given by
Mr. Hall :
COLAC.
COLAC ‘•HERALD.’’—The Colac Herald, in its
issue of 2nd March, tersely comments upon Mr.
Hvll’s lecture to “ Ladies Only,” in the Victoria
Hall. The journal says :
“ The lecture was well delivered. The ladies
no doubt appreciated the masterly manner in
which the lecturer handled his subject and the
important knowledge he imparted to them.”
COLAC *’REFORMER.”— This journal, in its
issue of Ist March, eulogistically remarks upon
Mr. Hall’s abilities as a lecturer in its comments
upon his lecture to “ Men Only ” :
“ Mr. Hall is a lecturer of no mean ability.
In a discourse upon “ The Disobedience of
Nature’s Laws ” the lecturer convinced his
hearers that he knew every point about which
he was speaking. Many stated it was the best
effort bearing upon such a subject they had
ever heard.”
WARRNAMBOOL.
WARRNAMBOOL “STANDARD.”— This journal
announced that on Wednesday afternoon and
evening Mr. W. F. Hall, representing The Free-
man and Wallace Medical Institute, would lecture
at the Town Hall. In the afternoon the lecture
would be For Ladies only, and the subject,
“Suffering Woman and Her Heroic Fortitude
to Endure.” The evening lecture would be for
“Men Only,” the subject being “Our Disobedi-
ence of Nature’s Laws.” It further added :
“ Judging by the reports Mr. Hall must be a
capable lecturer. The Geelong Times writes:
’Yesterday afternoon, at His Majesty’s Theatre,
Mr. W. F. Hall, representing the Freeman and
Wallace Institute, of Melbourne & Sydney, de-
livered a lecture to ladies, and in the evening
to men only. On both occasions the theatre
was filled. Mr. Hall took up the diseases of
both men and women from the cradle to the
grave, and certainly handled his matter in a
manner that convinced all present he was
master of the subject. These lectures are in-
tended to be of an educational character,
pointing out how men should live aqdgghat
they should do to preserve perfect ■Faith.
It was of little use to point out the advan-
tages of the Freeman and Wallace Institutions.
They had been established in Sydney for 25
years. * The most progressive is their watch-
word, and upon those lines they have created
the name they enjoy throughout Australasia.”
BALLARAT and BBNDIOO
JOURNALS STATE.
BALLARAT.
BALLARAT “ COURIER,” a journal of high
reputation, comments to some length in Its issue
of 30th March, 1904, upon the general usefulness
of the lecture given in Her Majesty’s Theatre for
“ Women Only," as follow :
“ The unique appearance of a theatre crowded
to the door by the fair sex was presented last
night when Mr. Hall delivered his address,
‘ Suffering Woman and Her Fortitude to
Endure.’ Mr. Hall is a perfect master of his
subject, and his lecture was listened to with
rapt attention throughout.’
Again, on 31st March, 1904, the same journal
says :
“In Her Majesty’s Theatre last night Mr.
Hall, in his lecture to ‘ Men Only,’ entitled ‘ Our
Disobedience to Nature’s Laws,’ addressed an
appreciative audience, the theatre being
crowded in every part."
The same journal, on 23rd March, 1904, comment-
ing upon the literature of the Freeman and
Wallace Institute, remarks :
“ ‘ Clinical Experiences,’ a book issued by
the Specialists of the Institute, is calculated to
be the means of bringing back hundreds of
human wrecks to health and happiness.”
EVENING “EOHO,” Ballarat, 28th March,
1904, says:
“ The high reputation which The Freeman
and Wallace Institute enjoys justifies the pub-
lication of their medical work, ‘ Clinical Ex-
periences,’ 670 pages, 150 Medical Plates.”
Again, on 25th March, 1904, the Echo comments :
“ The Health lectures delivered by the
diagnostician to the Institute, Mr. W. F. Hall,
are greatly instructive, and have drawn
crowded houses.”
BENDIGO.
BENDIGO “ INDEPENDENT,’’ 14th April, 1904 :
“ Last evening the Masonic Hall was packed
to overflowing, when Mr. W. Fletcher Hall, of
The Freeman and Wallace Institute, delivered
his lecture to ‘ Ladies Only.’ The lecturer ex-
plained that the lectures were given in the in-
terests of public morality. He traced the life
of a woman from the cradle to the grave. The
lecture was an interesting one, and was listened
to with great attention.”
BENDIGO “ INDEPENDENT,’’ 14th April, 1904 »
“ Mr. Hall delivered his lecture to ‘ Men
Only,’ 1 Our Disobedience to Nature’s Laws,’
last evening in the Masonic Hall. He spoke at
length upon the evils affecting the human
system. He pointed out that the Freeman and
Wallace Institute had at its disposal the finest
Specialists practising in the Commonwealth."
#
/
\
Jv
s®
■ II "" ' w ' ' "' "* —““"T B—iMl' . V \
WJRtI
m
m
m*
Lecture to Gentlemen only, delivered by -Mr. William Fletcher Hall, in the interests of The Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical
Institute, Sydney and Melbourne, at Her Majesty’s Theatre, Ballarat (Vic.), on Wednesday, March 20th, 190 j.
Photo, by Richards <b Co.
IlflTF I I Any man ma Y> he 80 desires, through
* “ * ■ private reasons of his own, consult the
Specialists, by addressing private'y “THE SECRETARY,”
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute, Cor. Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, opp. G P.O , or, if mare con-
venient, “THE SECRETARY,” 227 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
In some instances, a mai may not be able ta call person-
ally, and may prefer to write upon matters seriously con-
cerning himself. All such letters are promptly replied to
!»> th« Physician-in-Chief, Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.,
L.R.C.P.. E., LF.P.S,, E., L.M., wha is qualified and regis-
tered by the Medica’ Boards of Australia, England, and
tT^o. a »,-,I. h » e ,? p 8 F iallst ’ 8 fireat medical work, “CLINICAL
E ? P » ’ a J F ook e ssentially for Men, 870 pages, 31
chapters, 150 medical plates, sent post-paid on receipt of
ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STS., SYDNEY
HOWARD FREEMAM, Director of Institute.
RiO HARD WALLACE, M.D., Physician-in Chief.
And at Melbourne.


m
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID i
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleans ng Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
m
It YOU
A BAD LEI
with Wound* that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre~s vour Anger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies al.
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joipts. being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round w hich the skiu
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis.
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Store*,
ice. Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per b x. Prepared by
AIBLKT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England
Agents -. YLLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers sliou.d
look for th •registered trade mark of tile L rasshopper on *
green label on each box. (Regd copyriub*'
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES IMOT SHRINK.
mm
•mm*
'mm
fDAY
A.
mm
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: '* ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drape) s.
A NOTE OF WARNING!
The facts here stated and the weighty testi-
mony apply to Kutnow’s Powder, and to
Kutnow’s Powder only. No other prepara-
tion contains the same virtues as Kutnow’s
Powder. See, therefore, that the fac-simile
signature, “ S. Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and the
registered trade mark, ‘ ‘ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap, ” are on the carton, and also on the
label on the bottle. The signature and trade
mark will alone insure your obtaining the
GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
CONSTIPATION,
LIVER „„d HEADACHE
Remedy t-
HOT!
POWDER.
Nothing in the category of human ailments produces
more sickness than constipation and the consequent blood
poisoning. It is the hot-bed of all contagious and infectious
diseases ! Any victim to constipation is always ready to
contract typhoid or any other death-dealing malady.
The poisonous, foetid matter in the bowels contaminates
the blood, pollutes the breath, produces a foul tongue, sick
headache, biliousness, and indigestion. If you wish to have
pure blood, sweet breath, a clean tongue, a healthy com-
plexion, and to be free from all pimples and other blood
impurities, send at once to the nearest chemist for a bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder which is the most effective and perfect
remedy science ever produced.
CAPTAIN BARCLAY writes:
“Kirsteen, Cisbury-road, Brighton.
“Gentlemen, —You kindly forwarded me a bottle of your Kutnow’s
Powder a sliort time ago. I am very unwilling to testify that things have
worked wonders, but really I cannot speak too highly of it. I have suffered for
years from constipation and liver troubles. Your Powder has done all that it
claimed, and more than that, it has given me comfort. I have since taken two
bottles, and have to-day sent an order to my druggist for three more. Its
action is sure and gentle, and at the same time certain without any distressing
effects. It would be a boon to many who suffer in the same manner, and when-
ever I can I shall recommend it. Thanking you most sincerely for so good a
remedy.”
Business needs a clear head. How few business men realise
what is the matter with their heads. Kutnow’s Powder
clears them.
Dizziness and swimming in the head mean indigestion.
When things whirl round take Kutnow’s Powder.
Keep young by keeping well; health is youth. Kutnow’s
Powder removes that “ old feeling.”
The habit of health is formed by Kutnow’s Powder. When
you have got into a regular way, Kutnow’s Powder requires
to be used only occasionally.
A too-good dinner may have a too-bad result. Kutnow’s
Powder removes that.
Headaches almost always come from dyspepsia & constipation.
You may doubt it, but it’s a fact. Kutnow’s Powder banishes
both - that’s a fact, too.
Women’s headaches are usually attributed to the wrong
cause; when the stomach and bowels are in order, head-
. aches disappear. Kutnow’s Powder proves this.
“ Nerves.” Have you any “ nerves” about you ? Are they
shaky sometimes ? Kutnow’s Powder steadies them.
A beautiful complexion comes from a healthy stomach. Kut-
now’s PoAvder clears the skin from pimples, boils & eruptions.
Sweet breath comes from a sound digestion. This is attained
by Kutnow’s Powder.
People who work with the brain or body cannot afford to be sick.
Kutnow’s Powder repels sickness and ensures perfect health.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO, LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
[6 —12J
PROPRIETORS IN U.B.A. : KUTNOW BROS ,
853, BROADWAY, NEW YORK.
Nymsie : The artist who painted the
large canvas representing “The flight of Aris-
tides! ” hanging in. the Melbourne Exhibition
Gallery, didn’t know much about dogs when he
represented the collie in the picture sad and
dejected, with its tail between its legs, as
Aristides with his missus, or best girl, or sister
took their departure at the behest of the Irvine-
Bent ernwrl Jfu r t j ...
•iverao-e canine h.-irkAn rl shade or shmethe
wlcome to t e ,Jf ib antlcl P atory hind of
the Aristides dow d if ? J °T7 ,? ut
creatkre the aftitbesfs nf forlorn-looking
creature the antithesis of canine art !
A TkT Mary I™°’
on the mhn t*he S f balancing a broom
of twilmht We fIT Cr tbf 1 ' ' yi a ® h V Ur
because cominsr downstairs 7 earthquake,
two steos a t ine and IJP 38 half o way
wo steps a time and then leaps the rest. Once
she landed on the cat (the family heirloom) and it
has never been nnite thp uarm. ckimri .1’ •
v clip + * c - 1 ? 6 s ,P^ d smce#
Yesterday she tried to give it a solution of wash-
ing blue, milk, and something out of an old medi-
cme bottle. Probably puss would have been a
raving lunatic for a few weeks. Girl explained
that the cat was a nuisance about the place; so
for'fear Stf 6 • my °urth cup of tea for myself,
for fear of becommg troublesome.
A correspondent, on a matter that requires
early attention «,er requires
Thp npfnrmod 4- n , TT .
dev"ed al"v sohe"e ln thfwiums
for Insane the male divisions have, until reeently been
manned by male warders, while the female wards have
had female attendants—ah apparently reasonable and
humane arrangement. But the ruffianly crowd now on
Stafce po , liti , os is endeavoring- to alter it to fit, in
duty in the men’s divisions at their old rate of wages,
Some of them have refused, which will probably be ranked
as gross insubordination. Applications are now being
received from females,with the proviso that the applicant
must sign an agreement to do duty on the male side of the
—to say nothing of the dangers attached to the work—
will not commend itself to the general public. Such
sights, however, might perhaps amuse Bent.
At an A.N.A. social gathering, the other
day, Senator Higgs complained of the inclination
in Victoria to establish class distinctions and to
set up false standards of caste. He had seen, he
said, the whole traffic of Bourke-street stopped by
400 people waiting to see the Governor-General
and his missus come out of a drapery shop.
Senator Higgs only grasps half the situation.
There would be twice as many people gathered
round a dog-fight, unless the dogs were too sudden
and finished their scrap before the public knew
what was going on. It takes two Governors to
equal one dog-fight if the dogs mean business.
One Governor is about equal to a fallen horse.
Another batch of deluded Australians have
just returned from South Africa, per the steamer
Bombala. They state that 300 fool wanderers
besieged the vessel at Durban for passages, but
only a third of them could be accommodated.
Said one who got back :—-
I’m quite satisfied that those people who are always
running down Australia don’t know what they are talking
about. I know this much, that now that I’ve been and
had a taste of what some people call a “ grand country,”
and know what Australia is, I’m more than ever deter-
mined to set to and make a do of things here.
A remarkable series of cases took place in
the Hawthorn (Vic.) police court recently. A
youth named Gunn was charged with breaking
into a dwelling, and stealing therefrom a kit of
carpenter’s tools. He was defended by lawyer
N. P. Newnan, who subjected the principal witness
for the prosecution—John Drury, a second-hand
dealer—to such a severe cross-examination that
Gunn was discharged, and the Bench directed the
police to proceed against Drury for receiving
stolen property. This was done, and Drury
retained the same Newnan to defend him. At
the trial it was elicited that Drury had informed
the police of his contemplated purchase of the
tools from the boy, and Drury was acquitted. The
police constable was then charged before a Board
of Inquiry with neglect of duty in not reporting
Drury’s complaint. He was defended by the
same old, useful Newnan, who claimed that
Drury, the principal witness against him, could
not be believed, and he was also acquitted. Newnan
can thus be said to have done the hat trick.
Junee (N.S.W.) hospital has hatched a
painful scandal. Dr. O’Flanagan, one of the
medical officers, was dismissed on the charge that
his conduct in a certain case was ‘ ‘ inhuman and
cruel.” A number of leading doctors in N.S.W.
and Victoria declared Dr. O’Flanagan’s treatment
the only proper one under the circumstances.
The hospital committee then agreed to put the
matter into the hands of Dr. Ashburton Thompson,
president of the Board of Health, and to abide by
his decision. Thompson completely exonerated
O’Flanagan, and recommended his re-instatement.
The committee shirked its obvious duty by passing
it on to the incoming committee. The new
committee postponed the re-instatement of
Dr. O’Flanagan till he apologised to some
committee-men against whose vicious attacks
he had defended himself. Dr. O’Flanagan
properly refused to apologise for objecting to un-
justifiable aspersion. Now the poor among his
patients are refused admission to the hospital,
which is supported by public contributions and
State subsidy. They have the choice of going to
Wagga Hospital or camping on the steps of their
own—victims of the anger of a committee that
thinks its personal dignity has been bashed.
A Roman Protestant writes :
Dear Bulletin, —I notice a concern called the A.P.D.A.
has taken up the contract to defend me and other
Wesleyan Catholics. I object. I don’t want defending,
because nobody has interfered with either my religion,
politics, or job. The Hibernian Lutherans —I work for
one—haven’t tried to prevent me getting a living. No
Presbyterian Jews —my wife is one—have tried to convert
me or throw bricks when I go down to my devotions at
Luther Mulcahy’s Harp of Derry hotel on Sunday
mornings. I wasn’t stabbed or knocked down by
Moravian Jesuits or Hibernian Moderators at last
election. Not much! My next-door neighbors are a
Christian Atheist on one side and a Scotch Buddhist
on t’other. In my street are a Oonfucian, Orangeman,
a Japanee cabbage man, an Italian fisherman, a J.P.,
a member of Parliament, and a man who plays the cornet
in the Salvation Army. We are at peace, and troubled
only by the landlord calling for the rent. We warn Dill
Moran and Pat. Macky to turn it up, and stop striving
to set people fighting each other. Let them get work or
join the unemployed, and earn an honest living.—Yours,
Patrick Huss Voltaire.
A Maoriland pressman writes :
One day John Billstalker came to the office and partly
paralysed our editor with an advertisement which read :
“Madame Billstalker, palmist; John Billstalker, tinsmith
and coppersmith. Families waited upon.” Madame
turned out to be John’s mother (a Greek), and the
pair, in company with John’s wife and child, were
touring Maoriland, per medium of a battered caravan,
an aged horse, and a tent. In addition, John carried as
his references a lengthy document, to which was
appended the signatures of many bush mayors, attesting
that John was, so far aa known, fairly respectable, and
had never ‘ ‘ done time. ” The family did well till Madame, by
occult means, spirited away several of her clients’ jewellery
and pound notes. She was arrested, but broke up a remote
J.P. of the tussock country by professing an entire ignor-
ance of the English language. The Court wrestled with
her for four hours, and then John offered his services as
interpreter. His offer was gratefully accepted. The case
lasted two days, during which an anguished J. P. wrote
down the marvellous interpretations of John, and then, as
a sc.t-off, fined Madame £3, or fourteen days. The prisoner
took it out, and John’s bill for interpreting was £5. This
amount was paid, and then the constable had orders to
clear the family out of the district. Just as he was going
to do this, however, John’s wife entered an effective
protest by giving birth to a young tin and coppersmith,
and, to show that he bore no animosity to the police who
had put his mother in gaol, John christened the kid
“ Wairarapa Ruapehu Tongariro.” Then the district,
which had been much filled by Madame and John, had
peace, the local borough council passing a by-law formally
banishing all itinerant tinsmiths with Greek parents who
told fortunes from those parts for evermore.
The first Australian Agent-General was
Mr. Francis Scott, a member of the British Com-
mons, who was paid a salary to represent the
interests of N.S.W.—which was then Australia—
m London.


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, shoe-
lane, London, England.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
SPARAGUS
DISHES
Some very handsome
pieces in best Silver-plate.
These form uncommon
Wedding Gifts. A Heart-shaped Dish,
with Sauce-Boat and removable rack, for
84s. An oblong Frame, with heavy cast,
mount, pierced removable rack and pair
of Asparagus Servers, 80s. A neat, oval
design, with handsome, large, wire re-
movable rack. 635.
ROOCHES
of Every Good Kind are
here—in all gold from 5s ;
in the popular New Zea-
land Greenstone and Gold
from 10s 6d to 25s ; Gem-
set Brooches ; Diamond Brooches that
blaze and dazzle, all are here in such a
breadth of variety that to be unsuited is
almost an impossibility. Our fine dis-
play of Knife-edge Bar Brooches, set
with precious stones, from £l5 10s to
£3O is worthy of close inspection.
REENSTONE
The real Stone from the
home of the Maoris, not
the common Chinese
Jade, which, though a fair
imitation, is but an imita-
tion. No doubt many jewellers sell the
Jade in the firm belief that they are sell-
ing Greenstone. If you want a piece of
the popular, real Greenstone Jewellery,
we can command our assortments to
your inspection.
INKS
For your cuffs, with strong
connecting links, thus en-
suring long wear. Every
neat style made finds a
place among our unrivalled
display of these most necessary pieces of
men’s jewellery. We do not stock the
very light weights, as satisfaction cannot
be bought for next to nothing. But for
13s fid, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s you can get a
pair of gold Cuff Links that will be a
pleasure to wear.
m
Mounted up as Match-
boxes, are eminently
suited to give as Gifts,
especially for friends at home or going
home. Selected Beans beautifully
polished, and mounted with sterling
Silver, Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d„ 12s. 6d.
A Snuff-box might suit an occasional
Gift-buyer, Silver-mounted, 13s 6d.
ASES
Graceful Silver Vases, with
slender stems and wide
openings at top—Vases in
Glass with Silver Mounts
—in fine Silver Plate—
dozens of pretty ones to select from. A
few Buds in one or more of those dainty
ornaments will go a long way towards
making your dinner table good to look
upon Prices from 2s 6d up to, sav, 50s
for the large silver ones.
STOCKS ARE NOW AT THEIR BEST.
All the New Easter Goods are on view—New Jewellery—New Silver Goods—
New Purses—New Plated Ware—New Clocks. Come and inspect them, no
matter whether you want to buy now or later. It costs only a little time to
become acquainted with the new styles from over the seas. This store is pre-
eminent for the Reliable Quality of the Merchandise it handles, and we always
quote lowest prices. Our Eight Australasian Stores with their big buying
powers compel bottom prices, combined with dependable qualities. Our Cata-
logues are free, and all Goods are sent out post paid. Write us il you can't call.
m
m
01 HAINS
in Silver and in Gold
Single styles or in the
fashionable pocket-to-
pocket form. All the
good designs, some plain,
others slightly fancy. Quality is standard
in all. No seven carat for nine and
twelve for fifteen ; but full quality
guaranteed. In Silver, single styles,
8s 6d ; double, 12s 6d. In Gold, single
and double, as low as £3.
AT PINS
Every woman can find use
for more, no matter how
lavishly she is supplied.
She can leave a supply in
each hat ready for instant
use. Silver Kangaroo, Emu, Jackass, or
Swan Hat Pins for Is Any Initial nicely
cut out, Is 6d. Gold Emu or Kangaroo
Hat Pins, 4s 6d and 8s 6d. Lots of fancy
styles as well. Some Fine Gold & Tortoise-
shell Hair Ornaments, 22/6, 25/-, 27/6.
UFF CHAINS
Still a favorite with
the ladies, and no sign
of going out. They
look so graceful when
compared with old
style short chain or fob. The 9ct. gold
Muff Chains run from 5.15, then 60s, 635,
70s, 955, £5 ; in 15ct. gold, £6, £6 15s,
£7 15s, £8 10s. Pearl ornamented ones
in a variety of styles from £6 10s up-
wards. Silver Muff Chains from 8s 6d to
13s 6d.
INGS
This is a’favourite depart-
ment with us, probably
because we tit so many
dainty fingers--some with
Engagement Rings and
others with the Plain Gold Circlet, that
binds two lives together. If you want a
Ring, come here, where the best can be
seen linked to lowest prices. 18ct. En-
gagement Rings, Gem Set, 32s 6d to £4.
Wedding Rings, 21s, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s.
ATCHES
Fool a man once and
that settles it. Cheap
watches never built up
a man’s business. We
have the kind of
watcheis that enable us to say we sell
more watches than any firm in Australia.
Come jn and talk the watch question
over ; or if you cannot, write us for a
copy of “Honest Watches.” Forty-eight
pages of watches fully illustrated.
iamond Rings
For Engagements and
Birthdays. The daintiest
and most charming gift
you could send a woman
who loves pretty things.
Having our own house in Hatton Garden,
London (the home of the Diamond), we
are able to pick up parcels of pure White
Stones, at favorable prices. Upon inspec-
tion of our lovely stock of Diamond
Bings, you will see at once the effect our
methods have upon the prices.
NKSTANDS
The Gift pre-eminent for a
man. Probably the hand-
somest and best lot in
Sydney, or, for that matter,
in Australia, to select from,
the rustic Silver-plated Single Bottle-
Stand, with pen-rack, at 9/6, up to the
elaborate Solid Silver Presentation pieces
at £6 10/-. Silver Topped Bottles, 7/6 up.
Silver-plated Inkstands, 16/6, 25/-, 35/-,
55/-, 70/-, £5 5/-.
ECKLETS
Everyone want* one of
these for hanging the popu-
lar photo pendant on. As
usual, we are fully equipped
with a splendid stock of good
and useful designs. In 9ct gold, 6s 6d,
12s 6d, 13s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s ;
In 15ct. gold, 32s 6d, 40s, 50s, 555. Then
we have the patent Pearl Necklets made
from mother-of-pearl and coated to imi-
tate the real, 63s to £5. Gem necklets
£6 10s to £385.
UGAR BASINS
and SCUTTLES
A new shipment of Silver-
plated and Embossed
Sugars, just right for after-
noon tea, 12s 6d each. Then the favorite
Scuttle designs in the very best quality
silver plate for 20s, 22s 6d, 255. A Solid
Silver “ King James ” Sugar Basin, 635.
These are just a few picked from the
many we stock.
ceptional Value
Oar stock of long-wear
purses is complete, and
when you see them you
will want to buy. With
the exception of a few high-
grade American purses, our stock is
entirely best English, each being care-
fully made and sewn, with English
Hall-marked Silver or Gold mountings.
Prices from 8s 6d to 25s for silver-
mounted ones.
NTREE
DISHES
No woman can consider
her stock of table plate
complete without one or
more Entree Dishes. The cover has a
handle, and this, by half a turn, comes
off, and there you have a second dish,
which looks equally well as the other.
All good Plate, from 42s to 70s. Vegetable
Dishes, Steak Dishes, Soup Tureens, Pie
Dishes—in great variety.
AH DISHES
These are articles of daily
sale, and, in consequence,
our stock is constantly
changing. We add new
designs every fortnight—
all bought for cash by our Hatton
Garden (London) buyers from the most
reputable Plate manufacturers in
England. You can pay as little as 6/6
for the simple styles, and then go up hy
easy steps to 25/-.
PAL
BROOCHES
One of popular gems of
the day is the Opal —that
lovely Stone with sun-
shine in its depths—flashing forth every
color under the sun. A splendid selec-
tion of styles in Opal Brooches to pick
from, including some specially fine and
practically unmatchable pieces. Kings,
Bangles, Pins, Pendants —all are fully
represented.
g EA POTS
Only reliable quality of
Silver plate is stocked, and
Tea Pot prices for Full
Sizes commence at 15s 6d,
then 18s 6d, 22s 6d, 255,
30s, 355, 425, 50s, 60s. The cheaper ones
being much plainer in treatment, the
higher-priced ones showing evidence of
superior skill in the decoration. We
have Tea Pots to suit every table, from
the cottage to the mansion.
mm
Ourstockof suitable prizes
is a good one, and includes
some of the finest silver-
work ever brought into Australia. The
Armada Jug, a solid silver piece at forty
guineas, is a gem fit for a collector. The
Union Cup, at the same price, is also very
handsome. Lots of appropriate Cups and
Bowls, in solid silver and fine plate.
RUIT KNIVES
and FORKS
Cased up handsomely—6
Knives and 6 Forks. Just
the quantity for a young
household. Smart looking in design-
no clumsy effects. Knives have'mcely
engraved blades in a variety of designs.
Strongly Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
and made for use, not ornament only.
For £2 10s you can get a splendid set.
We have a big range.
ETTLES
Handsome pieces to have
on your table —effective as
wedding remembrances,
and nowhere else can you
see such good - looking
Kettles. We have—at least, we think we
have —some of the prettiest Kettles made,
and as for the prices—well, £2, £2 15s,
£3 15s, and £4 4s will buy something in
which you can have lasting pride and
satisfaction.
HOTO
PENDANTS
We could not describe
them in detail—the range
of styles is too wide. You
must come and feast your eyes on them
in the store. Prices were never so
reasonable for good Pendants. For 6/6,
7/6, 8/6,10/6 to 15/6 you can get the Gold
ones ; then the Stone-set ones from 21s all
the way up to £6. A beauty, with star-set
Pearls in 15ct. Gold for ±2 12s 6d.
nique Designs
That is what we offer you
in 15ct. Gold and Fine
Pearl Star Brooch and
Pendant Combinations.
Not the stereo-typed
patterns, but the novel and effective
styles Stars that have passed the
test of expert judgment, and priced as
low as the fine quality will allow. Prices
for 15ct. Gold and real Pearl Stars 57s 6d,
60s, 70s, 955, 110 s, 130 s, and 140 s.
EALOUS
ATTENTION
That is what we promise
all who call or write. We
are ever ready to show you
and tell you all about the new things,
and, no matter whether you are a buyer
or not, that same zealous attention will
be given. If you write, we will supply
any information you may desire, together
with catalogues profusely illustrated.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
H
&
The London Medical Record
gays “ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has by
Its excellence established a
reputation of its own."
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
“T.”: Apropos “D.H.R.” (B. 26/3/’O4). For years
outback bikists have increased life of tyres by lapping a
strip of ’roo skin or material of like toughness between
tube and outer cover. Such renders the tyre very “ dead ”
however, and makes riding heavy. As for bullock-hide
over rubber, which Salvarmy men are alleged to have
ridden, and of which “D.H.R.” remarks, “this made
them run a bit dead,” the defunct ox that supplied the
hide could scarcely have been deader. In a vision, I can
see his flayed ghost pursuing the dead bike and crying,
“ Gimme back my hide ! ”
* » * *
“Hermes”: Most of the prominent Sydney
football clubs had a few trial matches before
officially opening the season. To the person who has a
sense of humor there is no football match like the trial
one, when the new recruits, after a course of cricket, or
bowls, or something soft and sedentary through the
summer, are being broken in. I once played in a trial
match, and all my side, including the full back, had got
off-side. Down the field charged 15 stone of bone, brawn
and fury, with the ball under its wing. I was the only
impediment between it and the goal. My best girl was in
the crowd, and I felt I must at least appear to do some
thing. He was the champion full-back of Maoriland —a
man who had killed three and wounded Providence only
knew how many. I sprang, at him. He fended, swinging
his right like the arm of a windmill. My fingers got tangled
in a rent in his guernsey, and then the wretched thing
twisted round my wrist. He swung me off my feet and
whirled me round his head a few times. Then he had a
battle with me on the ground. The crowd shouted to me
to let go. He bellowed to me to let go. I couldn’t get
enough breath to tell them all that I couldn’t let go, and
that I was dying to do so, and would be dead in 30 seconds
if I didn’t.' Then he started to drag me after him
while he raced for the goal, but I got tangled up among
his feet, and he held me right up and dangled me vio-
lently in the hope that things would untangle. Then
there was a thunder of many feet, a storm of oaths, and a
red blur. The whole team had leaped upon him, and the
loud cracking noise I heard dully, was the sound of his
leg and collar-bone breaking. I had saved the game. I
\Vas a hero. I got my name into the papers ; and went
round swearing that I had determined to hold on till I
died. And the sporting scribe wrote that “of such stuff
are the heroes of old England made ! 1”
* * * *
“Thurla” : Re bicycle repairs (“D.H.R.”, in
B. 24/3/’O4). Have also struck some novelties in that line
up country. One was equipped with inch rope tyres fore
and aft. Another had about a foot of gun-barrel for
handle bars, and was triced with No. 8 fencing-wire
about the’ frame, and the tyre was well patched with
basil and moleskin patches. This machine was ridden
to its doom during the 1902 drought by a lanky Aus-
tralian, its owner. Another satire had been originally a
tricycle, but some genius had converted it into a chain-
less bike by inserting one back wheel on the axle bar
between the back fork of frame. This erratic and wobbly
machine was greatly patronised by the juveniles of the
town.
English cross-country championship, m March,
brought to the front 114 runners —19 of them Frenchmen.
A. Shrubb (a well-built man) put up his fourth successive
victory, cutting out the 10 miles in 54min. 25 2-ssec, and
winning by about a quarter of a mile. The French
champion finished 33rd, about five minutes later. The
race, being decided by teams of six, went to the Highgate
Club (London), who got six home in the first 18 ; Birch-
field (Birmingham) the previous holders, second. Shrubb’s
club came nowhere.
* * * *
“Old-Timer” : Victorian “book” W. Snelling,
killed in recent Randwick tram accident, 27 years ago
seconded Christie in his fight with since dead Jack
Thompson ; one punch settled Christie. Subsequently
Snelling was, with Tommy Kelly, behind Huxley when
latter fought Ned Hurley, and he had also something to
do with the Melbourne pug. Agar, who died from the
effects of a fight at the back of Randwick with Jimmy
Lawson, who afterwards drifted away to America. F. W.
Purches, owner of Patron when that nag gathered the
Melbourne Cup, was among those who missed serious hurt
by only a hair’s-breadth.
* * * *
About a dozen miles from Perth (W. A.) there is
a privately-owned racecourse—the Helena Yale—which,
although duly licensed by the governing body, smells
higher than a pearl-fishing lugger. Matters have become
so bad lately that even the staid and intensely cautious
West Australian was compelled to speak out plainly as
follows “If racing in W.A. is to be conducted in the
manner of which too many of the performances at Helena
Yale are examples, the sooner it is put down by the
strong arm of the law as a dishonest and a corrupting
influence the better for the community. It is a disgrace
to the State and to sport. What is needed is the purging
from the turf of the two classes of stewards to which this
kind of thing may be distinctly traceable —the betting
steward and the careless steward.”
He * * *
It comes from Capetown (South Africa) that
Australian wrestler and club-swinger Tom Burrows, in a
match with one Spinch, March 20, manipulated a pair of
21b. clubs continuously for 42 hours. World’s best (43hrs.
lOmins.) is also Burrows’, made in S’Africa, May 12 and 13
last year. Latest feat averaged 131 circles per minute,
and 330,120 in all. Burrows lost Jst. during the agony.
* * * *
“ Snaffle” : M.L. Jockey R. Derrett who won
the Great Easter Handicap on Vladimir recently is surely
the doyen of Australasian riders —he won the Canterbury
(M.L.) Cup on Lurline 32 years ago, the first C.J.O. Great
Autumn on Kakapo two years later, and the C. J.C. Derby
on Natator in 1878.
* * * *
It runs in the family. Sister and brother of late
world’s champion sculler Harry Searle won rowing races
at recent Maclean (Clarence River) regatta ; former (Mrs.
Skinner) dead-heated with Miss Fischer, while J. Searle
appropriated the “ best and best boats” event, with
ISsecs. start over a two miles course, beating seven others.
Searle won by six lengths from R. J. Brown (scratch).
Winner used the ’rigger his dead brother won his last
race in. Brown is a veteran at the game—l 4 years ago he
opposed Englishman Bubear when the latter was in
Australia.
A Melbourne professional man who scooped
Tattersall’s big- prize a few years ago has never used a
penny of the cash. Not that he has any nasty prejudice,
but that the windfall made him the most economical of
men. Latterly he travels second-class in his daily trips to
town, and wears his till the grease hand screeches a
protest right in his ear. But a wide smile of happiness
dwells on his countenance. He’s got the money and his
enjoyment is centred in its possession.
The cyanide-sand training track on the Kal-
goorlie (Westralia) course is particularly appreciated by
trainers. It is found that the sand solidifies to within a
few inches of the surface, always remaining loose on the
top. Moreover, the cyanide-sand track requires only half
the attention other sand tracks call for.
* * * *
Racehorse nomenclature has got into a tight
place when M.L. owners call their nags “la,” “It,”
“ A.8.N.” “ N.8.A.,” “ Eo,” “ Eos,” “ Eous,” and “ Eon.”
* * * *
“Marat”: The reason why the big pigeon
murdering prizes are cut up between a dozen com-
petitors is that the assassins who missed their first bird,
and who are thus out of the fun, go round grumbling
and cursing and threaten to get drunk or go home, so the
secretary induces the shooters who are still in the
running- to cut up the money and start a fresh sweep.
They, in most cases, are only too willing to grab a portion
of the loot, and are waiting anxiously for someone to
suggest a division. The pigeon shot is mostly a mean,
flash man, who grumbles about the price he is called
upon to pay for live birds, and then drives off hurriedly
so that he can sell his string to the cafe proprietor before
the other birdicides rush the market. I heard a hen-
exterminator haggling with a foreign restaurant-keeper
—he wanted Is. a pair for a string of feathers, skin and
shot —and the difference between him and the pompous
artillerist of a few hours before astounded me.
* * * *
“J.F.D.” : Purchasing pigeons from a breeder
a few months back, he showed me a pair of homers that
had escaped the gun on four different occasions and
returned to their old diggings. Although good breeding
birds before being sold for shooting purposes, the female
bird refused to sit on eggs ever afterwards, and with the
■help of the male rolled them out of the loft the moment
they arrived. This story may be interesting now on
account of discussion on the decreasing birth-rate.
* * * *
“Scrip” : Is this little gamble prevalent in
Australia ? Saw a number of youths throwing shillings
on a sack in a back paddock lately, standing a few yards
away from it. Lines were drawn across the sack, and the
bloke —if you had seen them you would have recognised
that they were distinctly blokes—whose shilling fell on
the line scooped the pool.
Charles Dawson, who disputes the championship
with Stevenson, has compiled a book on English billiards,
which is said to be the best of the kind ever published,
and the most instructive to beginners,
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : Quotation from Macmillan’s (B.
31/3/’O4) that 200,000 men are watching football in England
every Saturday, is ridiculously wilder-stated. The 36
League clubs alone would account for most of the number;
and there are many hundreds of. other clubs only less
numerously Supported. The real strength of the gate is
impossible to guess, but must be away up in the millions,
Here is one item that may serve as a hint. First round of
the English Cup, in February; weather generally bad all
over the country—so bad that one game was abandoned
altogether (and they don’t stop for a mere shower). The
muddy matches remaining gathered in a 30,000 gate, a
28,000, and four at or about 20,000, down to a minimum of
9000. Grand total, 236,000 for the 15 games ! Gate-money
ranged from £950 downwards, and aggregated over £BOOO.
“F.E.P*.W.”: I*have no* doubts! ,now about
Chinese luck Being anxious to test it, I followed one to
the tote, resolved to back what he backed. He asked for
‘ Lameleg.” The grinning clerk said he wasn t entered-
thought he might be foaled soon though. John sing-sang
something about Lallikin tell him Lameleg but said,
“Never min’, you gib me gray hot ?’ Yes, there was a
gray horse ! John wanted to be able to see his animal. I
took a ticket on the same brute It was a jostling finish,
“Greycoat” was second. Protest flag. ‘Gray got
verdict. Ours the only tickets on. Dividend, £25 10s.
* * . * „ ,
Deeby : It is pleasing to find BULLETIN cor-
respondents protesting against the alleged sport of
pigeon slaughtering ; but why has no one hitherto made
any disparaging remarks anent the so-called sport of
polo ? The people who indulge in this form of exercise by
proxy mostly belong to the well-to-do class, and are
generally snobs. I love horses, and it makes my bile rise
to see these “ sports ” on a hot day galloping their unfor-
tunate mounts about in an endeavor to smite a small
inoffensive ball. Often the hoises are bleeding at the
mouths from the hard and continual jeiking of the bit,
while it is a common thing to hear them receive on the
legs the blow intended for the ball. I witnessed a while
back a game of polo played at Narromme, at which a big
human hulk literally galloped his pony to death. Of
course it is useless to appeal to the human instincts of a
clasg that has mostly amaSBed mo ney by not possessing
any, but could not a Humane Road Metal Society be
f orme d to aim gibbers and other well-earned substances
at pigeon-butchers and poloists ?


TATTERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
Tasmanian Government having 1 imposed a tax
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tatter sail’s on
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
of One Penny
and after Ist
for each ss.
NOW OPEN
BRIGHTON. PLATE, Brighton, Tas., June 3, 25,000 at 5/1 each.
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 4, 50,000 at 5/1 each.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 2, 100,000 at 5/1 each.
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S.A., August 13, 100,000 at 5/1 each.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVER Y CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
THE
SMELTING & REFINING GO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA oe Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited!.
—-»■ " J 1 1 HOM diM'—'MSM' ■«*- *>*" **^"**o**
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For all information regarding Rates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers* Sweep, etc.
Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Hearse's
nre.
THE EA.MOTJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Rain of
oreness in e les , expenence de lghtful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most coin-
or g ina aymg irri a ion in ie noa and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
Complet« V Our^lfl 8 certain 18 * iave properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
BEJ'WA.RE OF 9 COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
too ILL TO LEAVE HIS BEIX
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.— Dear Sir,— l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my oase. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the oough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
. hat I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
* course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
eave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually Improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
■>f medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.— l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
t once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
t. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
: nd “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Medeftarre, Victoria. VV. TREMELLEN.
i A Child Saveu Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, Kindly forward me a
> mail bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
iisl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
bad a bottle front you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
tronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
v-.it for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Yiotoria,
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OP VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
„ „ „ “ Katuriga, Vic.
Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
colil that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ 1 now "ant you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old. also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS. ~
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent, ''
“ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured rne. I was very glad when it canney
as I was sufferingfrom a severe attack of Bronchitis at .the 1
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I o*nly
took it twice a day, and then only' every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and waJked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went i» the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. T always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thanjk niy son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M. MORfTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD. $
THB DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that foi; months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at puce it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told j
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT, 7
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South ;
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case,
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTL&
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send ffid one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CUREU
" Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronohiti#
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
S H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
h-
&"■ Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
V Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charteville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne's
inedicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
j.vhich was in the beginning of 1883— 15years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it."
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the elightu.ir
return of the Anhui a."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, t Victoria.
® ffi T e: N *' a,; First Floor : Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
ma ize, s > s 6d. Sold by Chemists ajid I.ledicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainabli Locally.-


'■'o%
Mm
m
fir
V'
W
If you enjoy a long wash
day, common soap will
make it long enough : Sun-
light Soap will shorten it.
If you want really hard
wear on the clothes, com-
mon soap will give it:
Sunlight Soap will not.
If you want swollen
knuckles and brittle nails,
common soap will do:
Sunlight Soap will not.
If you want something
really expensive you have
it in low priced common
soaps Sunlight Soap
means economy.
If you want to breathe
disease smells, common
soap will do: Sunlight
Soap odour is healthful.
$2O
IF
IF
IF
■- i -4 ••,
IF
IF
IF
IF
IF
IF
mm
EXPLAINING
THE ACTION OF
Warner’s Safe Cure,
and way it cures disorders so seemingly different in character as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anasmia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
(Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
This is a faiily long list of disorders, but every one of them is caused by defective action of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER.
When the kidneys and liver are working perfectly, it is impossible for anyone to suffer from
any of the disorders named. In order that this important fact may be realised, the following descrip-
tor) of the work performed by those vital organs is given.
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion of
the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy, and no time must be lost in
adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful
illness will result.
The Liver.—In the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood,
converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood
gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into
urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their
life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion,
Biliousness, Anaemia, Sick Bieadache and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Liver, was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
Safe Cure. It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it was necessary to find a cura-
tive agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so imme-
diately associated in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and, after many disappoint-
ments, the medicine which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length discovered.
Warner’s Safe Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by restoring their
activity, these vital organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of the urinary
and biliary poisons, the presence of which, in the system, are the causes of Rheumatism, Gout, Neu-
ralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice,
Sick Headache, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles, and General Debility. Warner’s Safe Cure cures,
all these disorders simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the reason why cures effected
by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent cures.
A treatise containing full particulars, and accounts of many remarkable cures effected, even
when hope of recovery was despaired of, will be sent post free, by H. H. Warner and Co., Limit;
Australasian Branch, Melbourne. [R
Over the Wine,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YERY often, when I’m drinking,
Of the old days I am thinking,
Of the good old days when living was a Joy,
And each morn brought a new Pleasure,
And each night brought Dreams of Treasure,
And I thank the Lord that I was once a Boy.
When I hear the old hands spinning
Yarns of gold there was for winning
In the Roaring Days, that now so silent are,
And my brain is whirling, reeling
With their legends, comes the feeling
That the Rainbow Gold I knew was finer far;
For not all the trains in motion,
All the ships that sail the ocean,
With their cargoes ; all the money in the mart —
Could purchase for an hour
Such a treasure as the Flower,
As the Flower of Hope that blossomed in my
heart.
Now I sit, and smile, and listen
To my friends whose eyes still glisten,
Though their beards are showing threads of silver-
grey,
As they talk of Fame and Glory—
The old, old pathetic story —
While they drink “ Good luck ” to luck that keeps
away.
When I hear a politician
Speak of honors and position,
And the time to come when he will sit on high,
Then I feel a sovran pity
For this species of banditti,
Raising trouble while the golden time goes by.
Long ago I did discover
It was fine to be a lover,
But the heartache and the worry spoil the game ;
Now I think, like an old vandal,
That the game’s not worth the candle —
And I know some other vandals think the same.
And I hate the cant of striving,
Slaving, planning, and contriving,
Struggling onward for a paltry little prize.
O, it fills my heart with sorrow
This mad grasping for. To-morrow
While To-day from gold to purple dusks and dies.
Very often, when I’m drinking,
Of the old days I am thinking,
Of the good old days when living was a Joy.
When I see folk marching dreary
To the tune of Miserere —
Then I thank the Lord that I am still a Boy.
N.s.w.
V. J. DALEY.
Supposition.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AREN’T you dreadfully happy ? ” Barbara
had a coaxing voice—an excellent thing
in a woman!
“ Well —not dreadfully,” demurred Fitz. Fitz-
gerald spoke ruefully. Barbara was evanescent.
She did not look beyond.
“Oh, Fitz!” (You see, they had only been
engaged for twenty minutes.)
Fitz kissed her.
“ My dearest child, I take Life seriously (like
Mrs. Gummidge !) ”
“ And me l I hate being serious ”
“ You’re not. But Life is, and marriage.”
“ I believe you’re sorry—already.”
“That’s silly—that’s stupid. Sorry’s not a
proper word. I’m anxious—it’s a venture, ’ ’ ended
Fitz, thoughtfully. -
“ Oh, Fitz /” repeated Barbara ( con espressione).
Fitz repeated his kiss.
“ Besides, I’m not sure of you yet. How’m I
to know you won’t leave me—slip me up at the
last minute ? ”
“ How is he to know ? ” Barbara asked the fire.
But of course Fitzgerald knew. He played
with Barbara’s hair (it smelt of extract of violets).
Fitz wondered if he was happy—thinking at the
same time that Barbara had charming hair.
“You’re sure you love me?” he inquired
earnestly.
“Haven’t I proved it? You weren’t good,
Fitz.”
“ Wasn’t I ? That’s not the point.”
“ You’re quite sure ? ”
“ Certain sure !”
“But that’s no criterion. You speak for to-day.
How can you answer for to-morrow ? ”
Barbara made wondering eyes.
“You’re a child of the moment, dearest. My
nature looks ahead. Supposing another chap came
along.”
“Just supposing !”
“ A younger, richer, better-tailored, better-
positioned sort of chap—supposing he made love
to you. Supposing you Why, what the
deuce ? You’ re crying 1 ”
“ I’m not.”
“What a fib!” Fitz bent. “Where’s her
rnouchoir ?” He bent again. An interlude, and
Fitz resumed —
“Well, Babs. Supposing”
“Supposing!” mocked Barbara. “Supposing
you’re like the Queen in ‘ Alice ’ who screamed,
and bandaged her finger before she cut it. Sup-
posing that, Fitz.”
The April face was divinely “cheeky.” Fitz
lifted her chin to see it better.
• * * *
“Now, Fitz ! you are quite happy.” Barbara
asserted it, but she considered the expression of
his face anxiously.
“ I should be,” declared Fitz.
They had dined. Wisely, and not too well, but
well enough. Barbara’s hand (the one with the
wedding ring) stroked her husband’s hair. She
wore a restful frock. Also, she preferred staying
at home to trapesing to the theatre.
“I should be,” repeated Fitz. He opened his
pouch, and Barbara found some fancy work.
‘ ‘ But you aren’t."
“ That’s it; jumping to conclusions again. I
never said I wasn’t.”
“Yes, you did.”
“Barbara! How can you tell such stories. I
said ”
“You said you should be.”
“ Well, shouldn’t I ? ”
Barbara made a false stitch. “You should—
but ”
‘‘.lf I should, why do you find fault with me for
saying that I should ? ”
“ Because it was a horrid ‘should.’ It implied
a doubt.”
“ Barbara!” exclaimed Fitz, sadly, “ I’m afraid
you’re a butterfly.” He studied ner. critically.
“ That's a pretty frock. Is that stuff violet ? ”
“Paler — mauve. It’s chiffon. Do you like it?
“Very much. Yes, Barbara—l should > be
happy. But, supposing I were to die, Babs ? ”
Awful supposition! Barbara dropped her
silks. Her heart thumped.
“Fitz ! you’re ill. You’ve hid it from me. No,
don’t kiss me—tell me. I’d rather know. Is it
your heart ? ”
“That’s it! I’m suffering from a heart com-
Elaint. But I expect you’re responsible for the
eart, dear. Barring that, I’m pretty fit. But
accidents will happen, you know, in the best-regu-
lated—ahem—. If I were to die (always sup-
posing)
“Well?”
“ You’d be a widow.”
“ Oh ! But I might die first.”
“ Then I’d be a widower ! ”
“ It’s dreadful any way.”
“Life’s a serious matter” agreed Fitz sen-
tentiously.
“ Terribly, Fitz ! ”
“ M’m ? ” .
‘ : Can’t you be quite happy—to-night ? J ust
for the moment —to please me.”
But Fitz was obdurate. Like George Washing-
ton, he couldn’t tell a lie.
* * * *
“ Now, Fitz, own up! You are happy ?
Dreadfully! Quite I ”
“Dreadfully? Quite? I'don’t know.”
“But, Fitz”—
Barbara brought her white bundle nearer the
fire. She made Fitz say “ This little pig” to his
baby’s feet.
“ But, Babs ” he recommenced.
‘ ‘ Just look at his eyes, Fitz ! Isn’t he a
treasure ? ” (“ But! ” interrupted Fitz.) ‘ ‘ Oh,
yes ! Well, you’ve got everything now—me,
legacy, baby— Baby! ” Barbara lost her voice in
its violet-powdery neck.
“That’s just it.”
“What?”
Fitz looked positively wan. His mouth was
drawn. An extra wrinkle sat on his brow.
“ My trouble ! ”
“ Oh ! capital-C-cares-of-a-family ? ”
“ Don’t be smart. Of course, if anything should
happen, I’m insured. But ”
A still small voice emerged from the bundle.
Fitz had brought up his wife nicely. She vanished,
soon reappearing minus the bundle, and came at
once to the fire and the point. She knelt by her
husband’s chair and leaned her arms across his
“But me no buts, Fitz ! Tell me.”
Fitz pulled out one tortoise-shell pin after
another. Then he shifted the shining wealth in
the firelight (his gold) quoting—
“ Oh loaded curls, release your store
Of warmth and scent, as once before
The tingling hair did, lights and darks,
Out-breaking into fairy sparks,
When under curl and curl I pried,
After the warmth and scent inside.’ 1
“ When you’ve quite done with my hair per-
haps you’ll tell me,” interpolated Barbara, sarcas-
tically.
Fitz sighed. “ You’re so impatient. You used
to pretend to be fond of those verses. You used
to like to hear me quote before we "were ”
“Ido ! I did ! Go on, Fitz.”
Fitz skipped, and continued. “ ‘What great
fear, should one say—Three days that change the
world, might as well your fortune ’ ” He
paused and sighed again.
‘ ‘ Well ? ” insisted Barbara.
“ Browning sees three days—l, a lifetime. . . .
Supposing the insurance company was to fail!
Imagine my agonies to think of you and the
boy ”
“But you couldn’t think,” cried Barbara,
triumphantly.
“But supposing”
“ Baby is crying,” broke in Barbara.
“ That’s a certainty,” sighed Fitz.
And where certainty begins, supposition ends,
doesn’t it ?
DOROTHY M'CRAE.
The Doctor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
STROLLING past the Kanaka quarters, one
Sunday evening, I saw the “Doctor” in
possession of the floor expounding the
Gospel to a number of other Kanakas, and stopped
to listen.
The Doctor had acquired his title through having
worked for years as groom and gardener to a
member of the medical faculty. This was the
burden of his discourse :
“Suppose boy good fellow boy, work ’im good
fellow longa master. No drink ’im grog, no make
’im bad fellow talk, give plenty longa missionary,
go longa church, make ’im plenty prayer longa
God. By-and-bye he die, he go longa ground,
three fellow day more he jump up. No more
blackfellow, he whitefellow now; he got ’im wings,
he fly all about, he make him music.”
“ What name music ?” inquired Billy Tanna.
The Doctor was evidently stumped—he didn’t
know what music was. So I explained to Billy
that music was what they made longa Jew’s harp.
Billy snorted with disdain.
“Me no want ’im Jew’s harp. Me want ’im
fun ; me want ’im shot, powder ; me no want ’im
arp. Suppose one fellow dead you put him
longa ground, he finish, no more come up.”
“ No; me no gammon,” asserted the Doctor.
“Longa island longa me one fellow boy he die.
He g-c-o-d fellow boy. He give ’im plenty longa
missionary. He no drink ’im grog. He make
’im plenty prayer longa God. Oh; he g-o-o-d
fellow boy. He die. Three fellow day more he
jump up. He no more blackfellow ; he white
fellow. Me see him.”
“He got ’im wings; he fly all about ?” inquired
Billy.
“No, he no got ’im wings,” admitted the
Doctor.
“What for he no got’im ? ” asked Billy with a
triumphant air. “I think you too much gam-
mon.”
The Doctor saw how he had weakened his case
by not supplying the resurrected with wings, so
he adroitly changed the conversation by remark-
ing, “Longa island belonga me we catch ’im
plenty alligator.”
As this information excited no remark, and the
conversation seemed to have come to a standstill,
I asked him how they caught them. The Doctor
explained that when an alligator had been dis-
covered and located, “Altogether boy go take
’im rope, one fellow boy he dive, he tie ’im rope
longa alligator, altogether boy he pull ’im up, kill
’im longa akis (axe), longa spear, longa club.”
Billy gave a grunt of incredulity, so I asked
him, “You no catch ’im all the same longa island
belonga you Billy ? ”
“Alligator no stop longa island belonga me,”
said Billy, sourly.
I suggested that we had a fine, healthy alligator,
nearly 20ft. long, in a hole in the river, a couple
of miles above the mill, and that we should all go
up the following Sunday and take a rope, and the
Doctor would dive down and make the rope fast
to the alligator, and we would all pull it up, and
have great fun killing it with axes and other
weapons. This proposition was carried by acclam-
ation, the only dissentient being the Doctor, who
hastened to explain that, through neglected edu-
cation, he had never learned to swim.
He had, however, a brother at Habana who was
an expert at the business. His objections were
overruled.
I explained to him that we did not want him to
swim; all he had to do was to sink down on top
of the alligator, make the rope fast, and then
climb up, and we would do the rest. The other
boys were enthusiastic over the idea, and asserted
their willingness to give a hand. The Doctor said
it was time to go to bed, and he left.
The following Saturday, as soon as work was
finished, the Doctor disappeared, and did not turn
up again until late on Sunday night. I re-
proached him afterwards for leaving us in the
lurch, but he explained that he had hurried over
to Habana to get his brother to come and fix the
rope to the alligator, but his brother was sick with
many fatal diseases and could not come.
The Doctor’s usefulness as a missionary was
ended. After that, every time he talked about
the resurrection the conversation seemed to veer
round to alligators.
N.S.F.


A Professional Nurse Cured
m
Indigestion and Debility.
wk
\\\
'"Mmw
“/ now recommend Bile Beans to my •patients!'
NEXT to advice direot from a phy-
sician is that from a thoroughly
qualified nurse. Not infre-
quently, indeed, based as it is
on long and careful observation of in-
numerable cases, the nurse’s advice is
equally to be relied upon. Nurse Bald-
win, residing at 106 Bourke-street,
Woolloomooloo, Sydney, writes: “You
have my heartfelt thanks for the benefits
I have received from Bile Beans. About
seven years ago my health commenced to
break up through overwork and worry.
My liver was sluggish in its action, and I
suffered with Constipation and Indiges-
tion, and, finally, Debility. Several
doctors prescribed for me, but, strange to
say, I derived no benefit from their treat-
ment. Bile Beans were recommended by a friend, and although I had little faith m their
doing me any good, after all the others had failed, I still determined to give them a trial,
and purchased a box. Their effect was marvellous from the first few doses, and, continuing
the course, I was quickly restored to health. Since that time I have never been without
Bile Beans in the house, and have recommended them to scores of my patients, and m each
case they have derived great benefit. As for myself, I cannot speak too highly of them.
BILE BEANS are a SAFE and SPEEDY CURE for BILIOUSNESS, HEAD-
ACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAK-
NESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD BREATH, ANAEMIA, DIS-
TURBED SLEEP, LOSS OF APPETITE, RHEUMATISM, and, by giving tone
to the system, will ward off COUGHS and COLDS. BILE BEANS are obtainable
generally, at Is. lid., or 2s. 9d. FAMILY SIZE (containing three times the quantity), or
direct from THE BILE BEAN MANUFACTURING CO., 39 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
"i
for
t -■ s
V-;-
m
m
m
SB
as®
i
wm
1
HR
■•:»
it®
s;s;
as
st»
.
~••-■
IS
•s ?.
m
m
'
Rhymes with
\,*s
Sv
4#
‘\y
>W\
JK
u
O-
✓
%
On
and so does
PEARS
Kitty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHAT care I that Kitty be,
So she keeps firm faith with me ?
What the glory of her hair,
Whether night holds revel there,
Or the sunset’s ruddy gold
Clothes it warmly, fold on fold ;
Whether summer’s standing sheaves,
Or the autumn’s tawny leaves,
Or the blossoms of the spring,
When the gold-god’s on the wing,
Are most like, or whether dark
As the winter’s sodden bark ;
What care I so that it twine
Round no lover’s neck but mine ?
What care I (her hair is brown,
In thick clusters curling down)
What the beauty of her brow ?
This as truth I take it now
Beauty I shall find most fair,
If for me no lines of care
Plant appealing presence there.
(I have kissed a forehead white
Half way through a summer’s night.)
Oh ! but once she sprang surprise
As she veiled her wondrous eyes,
Asking, “Sir, what have you seen
Of the color of mine een ? ”
“ White clouds,” said I “ closing down
On a sleeping country town.”
“Ah,” she laughed, “how dull you are,”
And her eyes were each a star.
But I do not care, not I,
What their color is, nor why,
So that in them I can see
Something ef her love for me.
What care I that Kitty be
So she keep firm' faith with me ?
What the beauty of her nose,
Whether it to heaven owes
Loving service, or is straight .
As the sculptured ones of Fate,
Or of aspect, kindly bold,
Mothered of the Grecian mould;
Think you lover should disclose
Thoughts about his lady’s nose ?
I have-kissed her warm, sweet lips,
And tlie red rose when it sips
At the dew about its heart,
With its leaves blown wide apart
By the soft wind of the south,
Is the image of her mouth;
But I do not care, not I,
If that image fail, nor why,
So that when her breath exhales
Subtle sweetness of dim vales
With the odor ever blest,
Apples of the Orient quest,
Mine be but the lips whose kiss
Answers such ambrosial bliss.
What care I that Kitty be
So she keeps firm faith with me ?
What the beauties of her breast,
So that I alone there rest ?
What the outline of her frame ?—
Whether I should give it name
By the slender poplar tree,
Or by willows, willowy,
So that it for ever be
Temple consecrate to me.
What care I ? I do not care.
Devils may be lurking there;
But I see her as she is—
Pouting lips for me to kiss,
Child of nature with the fire
Of her wonderful desire,
And I love her, so you see
She is all the world to me.
Vic.
MILKY WHITE
Toby.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN Bill came out of gaol Jim went to
meet him. They had been chums for
years, and were what are commonly
known as “bad lots.” But Bill was the worse.
He’d kill a man for a shilling, whereas Jim
wouldn’t do it for less than eighteenpence.
The pair went up to Jim’s lodgings in Colling-
wood to talk things over, after having a drink at
the Black Eagle.
Jim related, with much feeling, the incidents
that had happened during his friend’s compulsory
seclusion. How Nipper Wells and Andy Burke
and 14 others had been “potted” for kicking a
policeman up Carlton way; how Micko Dunn was
also in Government employ as the result of a little
affair in Bourke-street; and he himself had had a
parrow shave over a Brunswick incident. “ And
the worst of it was,” Jim woundup, “ he only had
a few bob in his pocket, and it took three stoushes to
do ’im. There’s too much blanky legislation these
times, that’s what it is. This ‘socialistic inter-
ference with private enterprise,’ as they say in
the papers, is killing our game, straight. A chap
can’t do a little job nohow now without bein’
nabbed.”
The pair smoked on in silence for some time.
“What’s become of Toby?” asked Bill,
glancing about the dirty room. But the question
needed no answer, for at mention of his name
a fine collie rose lazily from a corner, and,
shaking himself together, came up to the knees of
the two bad lots, wagged his bushy tail in
recognition, and rubbed his nose against the worse
lot’s mammoth hand.
“We’ll have to lie low for a while, anyhow,”
Bill continued, patting the dog on the head and
sending up a cloud of vapor from the great hole in
his face that did duty for a mouth.
“Let’s try the bottle business,” suggested Jim.
“Too much graft,” grunted his companion, “I
always had a hatred of empty bottles.”
“ What about a bit of dealin’, then ? Say we
sell Toby ! I ain’t done it for more’n a month.”
“You’re a regular wonder for thinkin’ out
things, Jim. You ought t’ave been manager of a
bank.” This was Bill’s ideal of greatness.
So it was decided to sell Toby, and Emma
Fisher, who was Jim’s girl, was deputed t® carry
out the details.
.An advertisement was inserted in the Age—
with Is. advanced by Emma —and Bill and Jim
selected the most likely applicants from the shoal
of letters received.
Emma started out at once to complete the sale.
The first few houses were occupied respectively by
an old maid, a Presbyterian minister, a school-
teacher and a musician, but the girl decided that
none of these were fit companions for a respectable
dog like Toby, and enlarged on his vicious habits
to such an extent that no business eventuated.
. The last place on Emma’s list was an attractive
villa in Hawksburn. The door was opened by a
blushing young woman, with “just married”
branded on every inch of her attire.
“Oh! what a lovely dog!” she exclaimed,
clasping her hands in admiration.
“Yes,” said Emma, “he is a beauty. I brought
him round to let you have a look at him. He’s so
gentle with children”—Mrs. Smith blushed —
“but to tramps and hawkers he’s a perfect terror.
It breaks our hearts to have to part with him,
but me and my husband are goin’ to England and
we want Toby to get a comfortable home.”
“ Come inside and let us talk it over,” suggested
Mrs. Smith, and Emma led the dog into the
dining-room. The eyes of Jim’s girl sparkled as
she glanced round. The sideboard was crowded
with silver, and Emma mentally fixed the value at
a high figure. She decided that this above all
other places was the home for Toby, who was a
dog addicted to cruets.
“You see,” began Mrs. Smith as she patted
Toby caressingly on the head, “ I feel so frightened
with a lot of costly things in the house, and Harry
often comes home with pounds and pounds in his
pocket, and without a watchdog we feel so ner-
vous. You’re sure he’s a good watch?”
“Watch !” exclaimed Emma, with a determin-
ation to sell the dog at any price. “ I don’t
believe he ever goes to sleep. Why, it wouldn’t
be safe for a burglar to come within a mile of the
house after dark. And he’s so cheap, too ; we
only want £l.”
“ Oh, well, I’ll buy him,” said Mrs. Smith, and
she produced a tiny purse brimful of sovereigns.
Emma’s eyes, glistened, and she felt she’d have
taken 2s. 6d. if it had been offered.
She led Toby out to the back, chained him up,
and bade him a tearful farewell ; then hurried
back to Collingwood to report the success of her
mission.
Bill and Jim said nothing. They just smoked
and grinned.
* * * *
Toby was reckoned a great bargain at Smith -
ville. He kept off tramps and hawkers with a
vigor that gave complete satisfaction, and the
young wife enjoyed a sense of security that had
hitherto been quite foreign to her. Finally, after
he had specially distinguished himself by disper-
sing a commando of two sneak-thieves, he was
allowed to sleep at night inside the house.
Bill mysteriously remarked that afternoon that
he thought it was a “sure thing.” Jim nodded
approvingly.
• . « • *
Toby had been in his new home perhaps a
month when Mrs. Smith awoke one night with a
start.
She lay in a cold perspiration for a few moments ;
then, summoning all her self-possession, she
whispered, “Harry, I’m sure there’s someone in
the dining-room.”
. But Harry was himself awake, and the pair
listened breathlessly for a few moments.
Then Smith noiselessly slipped off the bed
olothes and extended one bare foot towards the
floor, but ere it reached its destination there was
a suppressed growl, and something bit Smith. He
retreated like lightning, and lay for - a moment
wondering what on earth could have attacked him.
Then he reached for th - matches, and struck a
light. By. the dim rays he recognised the faithful
Toby, eyeing him with a hostile air. Smith ex-
tended nis hand coaxingly, but the dog ignored it.
Somewhat reassured, he once more tried to get out
of bed. By extraordinary agility, he got back
again before he was bitten a second time.
Down below, they could hear men walking
about, and apparently packing up the silver and
other valuables. Mrs. Smith fainted just about
here.
After a time footsteps were heard in the hall,
and two spectre-like figures appeared in the door-
way. Toby wagged his tail in evident satis-
faction. One of the men stood, eyeing the
occupants of the bed, while the other entered the
room. Mrs. Smith promptly fainted again. The
intruder proceeded to rifle Smith’s pockets without
so much as bestowing a glance in his direction.
Smith felt a slight sense of relief as he remem-
bered he had only a few shillings. Then ex-
tracting the watch from the vest, which hung on
the bedpost, the pair of bad lots withdrew. The
dog still lay at the foot of the bed. Smith heard
his visitors shoulder their bundles in the hall and
open the front door, leaving it ajar as they passed
out. For a few moments more Toby remained at
his post; then with a cheerful, honest bark he
galloped up the hall and out into the street.
Smith poured water over his wife and made a
survey of the dining-room. All the beautiful
wedding presents, the pride of his wife’s heart and
the envy of her friends, had disappeared, and the
contents of the sideboard lay scattered about the
floor. Mrs. Smith wept; Smith swore. The
honest Toby fled along the by-ways towards
Collingwood.
Bill and Jim met next day t© divide. The
massive cruet was put to the test, and with a curse
Bill threw it into a corner, where the bottles
rattled on the floor. Article after article followed
it, and the house gradually filled with language.
Bill threw the last piece of ware into the fire with
a bang. Smith’s watch, too, proved “brummy.”
“ All the worst sort of electro, by ginger!” he
exclaimed. This was not exactly the phrase.
Bill was the only man in the world who could
do justice to the situation.
Bill looked at Jim ; Jim looked at Bill. Both
were full of emotion, so went out to get full of
beer.
Jim went home with the intention of thrashing
Emma Fisher for letting them in, and kicking
Toby on general principles. The latter part of
the scheme failed, for Toby was a wise dog and
as his master came round the corner, gritting
curses between his teeth, he fled and lay low in a
remote , part of Carlton. _ But Emma Fisher was
thrashed magnificently with a clothes-line that had
a knot on the end of it.
O.P.S.


Weak and Delicate
Debilitated and Languid for Years. Health and Vigor now Fully
Restored. Most Remarkable Cure.
m
m
Mrs. Mabel Boulton, of Turbot
St,, Brisbane, Queensland, sends
us her photograph, and says:
“From my infancy I was weak
and delicate, and grew to be any-
thing but a robust child. suffering
from debility, no appetite, and
the usual consequences of such
complaints. But my parents,
hearing of the health-restoring
properties of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
procured some for me, and I am
happy to say that after having
taken two bottles I regained
health and vigor, and a good
appetite, and have not troubled
the doctors since. I am now
married and have a family of my
own. am strong and well, and can
recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
as a good family medicine.'”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is certainly a' splendid family medicine. It is just as
good for the child.as for the parent. The only difference is in the dose.
The thin, pale schoolgirl is as much benefited as her tired, nervous mother.
The rapidly growing boy, weak and languid, is as promptly aided as his
overworked and overanxious father. Keep this grand medicine in the house.
A dose at the right time will often save a long and expensive sickness.
All Sarsaparillas are not alike. Look out for that. Avoid the many
substitutes and imitations. Insist upon getting “Ayer’s.”
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Takes out all Impurities from the Blood.
Ayer's Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative.
Prepared by DR. J. O. AVER CO.. Lowell. Mass., XT. S. A.
MARCUS CLARK & CO., Ltd.
Combination Coach and Bed*
A Marvellous Invention*
Thi*.is a COMBINATION COUCH AND BED—a long
looked-for want —which can now be supplied at our
Newtown Emporium and Branches.
ITS SPECIAL MERITS.
Simplicity and'Usefulness.
The Most Comfortable of-Couches.
Convertible by a wave of the. hand into a Luxuriant
and Substantial Bed.
A piece of Furniture of Highly Artistic Finish and
Design.
An ornament to any room, in addition to the above
useful advantages.
At prices within the reach of all.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
, . , Patent No. tmk.
upholstered :n Cretonne, from po «
"Tapestry and Plush, from " %
upholstered in Cretonne, with box from is
In Tapestry dnd Plush, £3 18
Ta^rrv U^ jlStere a *•" an 7 ™ ateria l : Leather, Cjretonr
J-apestrj, etc., and invaluable to Hotel and Boardir
MaKusSk&ctLtiSSr
T.O DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s, Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lockyer’s
the. real English Hair Restorer. Large bottles Is.
everywhere.*
NOT WAIT
until your good health is impaired, but take steps to
keep it up to the mark. Remember that ailments,
apparently trifling, may very soon develop into
serious diseases.
Do not hesitate to take
EECHAM’S
oh the first appearance of any distressing symptoms.
They will do more to establish and maintain your
general health than any other means you can employ.
For a Sluggish Liver, Sick Headache,
Indigestion, Loss of Appetite,
Constipation,
and the depressing nervous conditions that arise from
these troubles, there is no more reliable remedy than
BEECHAM’S PILLS.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, 1/1J (56 Pills) and 2/9 (166 Pills)
HAMIERLESS DOUBLE BARREL SHOT-GUNS
Arc made at all prices to suit every parse* ♦ . • . Each Gun. Guaranteed.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO QUOTE YOU PRICE.
REMINGTON ARMS CO., ILION, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
m
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
jGI card.
u
M.D., M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P.,E.', L.R.C.5..E.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ ELM LEY HOUSE,”
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting' Physician in all Diseases ot Men and Women
The only Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner advertising in Australia holding all the above
Qualifications, Specialist in all Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases. May be consulted personally
or by Letter in all Diseases of the Nervous System, Blood and Skin Diseases, Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Vari-
cocele Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases, from whatever cause arising, and all those Contagious
Blood and Skin Diseases so common throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and Women,
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
and Kidney Complaints, etc., etc. DR. MARTIN has Accommodation for a Limited Number of RESIDENT
Patients at “ Elmley House,” suffering from above complaints. Terms Moderate.
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Dr. MARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work on the KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
Price, by post, clpth 5/6 (cheap paper cover edition, 1/6). Send for “ Press Extracts," posted Free throughout
the Commonwealth, giving the Opinions of the Press of Australasia.
ADVICE by Letter, ONE POUND (including medicine). REMEDIES forwarded Free from Observation to
all parts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the States.
Dr. MARTIN Has with him all the Latest European Treatments, including the Browne-Sequard, Krafft-
Ebling, and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidney, Bladder, and all
Private in the Treatment of which he has been so successful during his 24 years’ practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, you receive the advice of a thorough, competent and
trustworthy physician. Yoii are assured of proper and reliable treatment, of moderate charges, and rapid and
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “ Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper when writing
AT POVERTY POINT.
( Continued.)
C.H.R.: Visited the Launceston (Tas.) Zoo recently. The
first thing that strikes you is the smell; the next is the
number of empty prisons. A villainous baboon ; a large
bear, which paces his little cell foaming at the mouth ;
a few ’possums, slumbering in sweet oblivion ; a Tas-
manian devil blinking.through his bars at the blessed sun-
light ; a little yard full of miserable skin-diseased guinea-
pigs; a few white rats ; and a small enclosure of kangaroo
and emu complete the list of beasts. A few water-fowl
wade dejectedly about in a stinking pool; a score of small
• birds flutter in a cage 10 sizes too small for the number ;
some cockatoos and parrots sit almost motionless on their
. perches : and a horrible wire gaol confines four heart-
-broken eagles for the term of their natural lives. I agree
|Vith a late writer in Bulletin that the Launceston Zoo is
h,o\saddest spectacle in the Commonwealth.
George Giddens and co. opened a new theatre at Pre-
toria last month. ' »
The projected'British “ Imperial Exhibition,” to happen
at the Crystal Palace in May next year, will be the second
great show held within the gigantic conservatory. The
Sydenham Crystal Palace is pre'tty much the same build-
ing that Joseph Paxton designed for the original Inter-
national Exhibition in 1851. It was somewhat recon-
structed when the whole bag of tricks, was transferred
from London to Sydenham, and portion of one of the
wings was burned down 20 years later and had to be re-
built ; but in the main the Palace is more or less identical
'with the place where the intelligent foreigner took notes
of British manufactures, and displayed his rival attrac-
tions, more than half-a-century ago. They don’t want
any more International Exhibitions in England,
“ Cay ” : Never knew but one theatre ticket-taker who
was a baronet, and that only lasted for a few minutes.
Arthur Nicholson was an old man, taking checks at the
Bijou, Melbourne, when it was being run by G. B. W.
Lewis. He learned that he had inherited a baronetcy just
before going on for the evening, and I heard him singing
out: “Where’s old Lewis? I’ll show him about taking
tickets for his blooming theatre.” The present baronet,
the old man’s son Arthur, was at the time, a Victorian
mounted constable —and a very decent fellow he was.
He married Miss Bostook, of the Western district, and,
after going to England, became British'Consul in Spain,
or Babylon or somewhere.
One gets tired of the daily newspaper criticisms of
violin playing, in which the artist is specially praised for
his, or her, technical skill in “ double-stopping,” or what
not. The public judge any musical performance by the
music that is made, not by the performer’s manual method
of making it. And newspaper notices are supposed to be
written for the general paying public, not merely for pro-
fessional musicians. A novelist is a literary platform artist.
The critic, or “ reviewer,” of a novel proclaims himself a
narrow-minded pedant if he exhorts the w®rld to buy a
novel f or the sake of the author’s skill in constructing a
particular kind of sentence.
In “ Habits and Men ” Dr. Doran describes a perform-
ance he witnessed at a small Irish theatre. The bill con-
sisted of “ Venice Preserved ” and the balcony scene from
“Romeo and Juliet.” The costumes abounded in incon-
gruities, and the two leading actors “had but one pair of
buskin boots between them. Accordingly, when it was
necessary for both to he in the presence of the audience,
each stood at the side scene with a single leg protruded
into sight and duly booted. Never did I laugh so much
at a tragedy as when a torrent of rain fell upon audience
and actors, and Juliet went through the balcony scene in
a dirty bed-gown and under a cotton umbrella.”
Articles have recently been appearing in Melbourne
Argus, reminiscent of G. V. Brooke, and the opinion of
a London journal that he was “ the greatest actor of the
age” is quoted. All the same, Brooke never succeeded
in establishing himself in London, his style being too
robustious for most of the critics.
Evidently theatre-going 150 years ago was almost as
exciting a pursuit as attendance on a Dowie meeting is
to-day. There is this in Fielding’s “Tom Jones,”
hook XIII., chapter II: “ Sophia ... left the play before
the end of the first act, for this being a new play, at
which two large parties met —the one to damn and the
other to applaud—a violent uproar and an engagement
between the two parties had so terrified our heroine, that
she was glad to put herself under, the protection of a
young gentleman, who safely conveyed her home.”
Whilst the Melbourne Board of Health people are
worrying about the defects in the local theatres they
might as well take a prowl around the labyrinthine
passages under the Athenaeum Hall stage, and sniff the
stenches appertaining thereto. The down below por-
tion of the Athenaeum premises is notorious for its
angient and fish-like perfumes, which must inevitably find
an outlet into the ill-ventilated hall.
A recent article in Hobart Mercury, reminiscent of a
dramatic performance by members of the Victorian Legis-
lature in 1860, in aid of the Shakspeare Memorial Fund,
speaks of John Dennistoun Wood, who recently published
a vol. of verse, as having written a prologue, This is an
error. Wood spoke thfe prologue, but the late G. W.
Rusden wrote it. The play was the “Merchant of
Venice.” Mark Last King, an old professional known as
Morton King on the boards, was Shylock ; George Coppin,
now in his 86th year, was Launeelot Gobbo; Tom Car-
penter, Old Gobbo; Donald, Bassanio; Howard, Gratiano ;
V-incent Pyke, Antonio (he also wrote and spoke the epi-
logue) ; Joseph Wilkie and other legislators played minor
parts. Portia was Mrs. Robert Heir, and Nerissa, Fanny
Morgan. Until about two months ago the Jessica of the old
performance kept a pub. in Phillip - street, Sydney.
Goppin and Wood are the sole survivors of the legislators
who Shyiocked in that old-time events
| |The artless boom of the prima donna (from London
Westminster Gazette) “ To-morrow Madame Melba
returns from her long Continental tour to her thousands
of admirers in England. ‘ I like London,’ the Diva said,
‘ better than any other city in the world. In London I
am at home, and here I have more friends, I believe, than
in any other city.’ Madame Melba has an ideal home at
30 Great Cumberland-pla«e, where she lives in a sump
tuous environment of Louis XV. and XVI. furniture, and
counts among her treasures the very bed in which the
Dauphin of France slept his last sleep before he was lodged
in prison ; and here she entertains her friends on a scale.
of queenly hospitality. But better even .than this stately
home Melba loves that idyllic little retreat at Marlow,
with its lawn gay with geranium-beds, sloping to the
river, where she has. spent so many glorious summer
months. Madame Meiba has scored'many triumphs since
the first disheartening evening at Ballarat when so few
people came to hear the young singer that she was com-
pelled to return them their shillings and send them away)
but her greatest ovation was at St. Petersburg, when for
an hour and a half after the opera was over she was called
and re-called before the curtain.”


MACINTOSH..
Is worth its weight in
gold to you. It’s macin-
tosh time just now.
These are the best
Macs, made stylish-
full of wear, and abso-
lutely waterproof.
GENTLEMEN’S MACINTOSHES—
-355, 42 s, 50s.
LADIES’ MACINTOSHES—
With Cool Ventilations under Cape-
-358.
Perdriau Rubber Co.
(Late Perdriau & Co.)
RUBBER MERCHANTS,
270 George St., Sydney.
Ltd,
CRAIG &
AITKEN*
Tel. 1198.
THE most charming and slylish
Transformations and setni-
Transformations j'ou ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from S/6. Yottrovyu Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 8/6 per
bottle. .
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price lasts on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
m
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
\
BEMSTTC
Cimpound Jet Condensing Pumping Engine
Sole Australasian Representatives for
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Co., Ltd. London.
Warren Webster & Co. «ew Jersey.
ENQUIRIES INVITED FOR
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters $ Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
m
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
*
MARK.
(oHb
WOLF
07
AX Pi
I. & J. MAXFIELD Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrotmt-
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Alee «t-
-"TMB
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
mm
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
*7-3= Clarence si;., Sydney.
Steam Engines, Boilers, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Laundry Machinery,
Fan Blowers and Exhausters, Sturtevant Ore Rolls and Crushers.
m
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
as wen as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
m
HAVE IN STOCK
All Kinds of Engineers* Fittings and Supplies
Wood Pulleys Plummer Blocks Drills
Shafting: Collars Reamers
Hang:ers Coupling's Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Meehan ical Tools, etc-, etc., etc.
Write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st.. Sydney, N.S.W.
m
T. M. GOODALL & CO.
Jl jfftgtc, .
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE— ■“» L_W I _ I.: O D A il«. u «.
Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting,
Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty.
New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
m
WS&&'^4k‘ 5
Sl*B, si" x 3£" x s*.
m
and have
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all size*
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,*
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc.' Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
ft. L. SCBUTTON & CO., Ltd.
NOTHING EQUALS, m
METAL SOLARINE POLISH
For GLEANING COLD, SILVER, BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL, TIN, Etc.
SOLARINE makes a BRIGHTER and MORE PERMANENT POLISH with LESS LABOR and LESS MATERIAL THAN ANY OTHER POLISH
ON THE market. Sample Tins on application.
m
#
:
71 Clarence Street, Sydney;
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
