

JIcEWAH'S ALE.
GAELIC
LAMB'S
asd
o
107 Kent
Sydney,
..mg and Contractors’ Plant,
EXP] OSIVES, Bl ILDICKS and GENERAL
Engineers’
ironmongery
S3>"fc»T* 0 ©t,
•i sawmill Machinery, Minin? Requisites
SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
and
NEW
AND
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
fiSOSt
Up-to-Date
Machines.
for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
\ PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
'A. Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
* -id blown out to life-.-ize—causes roars of laughter), Book
>f Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
i-.-icks), the Puzzle King, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
finition of your character—very superior for parlor
<t o tertainments), the Joker's Love Bond (a good catch),
the Pocket Companion or Combination Comet Candle and
lilatchbox, the Great Yankee Bicycle Puzzle (very
genious), and, last of all, the famous Wizard of the
A orth’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instructions enclosed).
T. ds splendid packet posted to any address in Australasia,
ree, on receipt of 2* 6d.
H. L. HUTCHIMSOM, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
KIRCHNER & C»*
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
-HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD
(< &ra.xid E»rtx,” I*ari», 1900.
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
80l
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., » pit* street, SYBNfY.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Pos :ed, Bd.
HOBART.
—— :
(jadleys Orient fiotel.
pioneer
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
0
'/
CO
Indigestion l
When you feel exhausted, haven’t ambition
or strength to do anything, and your appe-
tite is poor, take
P PEARSON’S
EPTO-CHLOR,
the absolute cure for Indigestion, a New
Zealand discovery. PEPTO-CHLOR makes
unsteady nerves steady and cures the source
of the troubIe—INDIGESTION.
Sold by all Chemists at 2/0 and 4/- per bottle.
1 f your Chemist does not stock Pept.o-Chlor, send
direct to the Orlando Pearson Pepto-Chlor Co.,
Stock Exc.hnvcrc Build,irios. Pitt Street, udney.
o
cK>
A
ft{j
Sy
HERVEY’S
BfICKAROOK.
18 Years Unbroken Record
aa a Standard Australian
Explosive.
COOL.
ROOP
MAH*
AGENTS: Leading Ironmonger!
everywhere.
COOL HOUSES
WHITE COMPO.
or TERRA COTTA
To Avoid Fraud
-ferSEETRADEMARK
ON EACH COSE AC-.
: For these two lines address^—
“ARABIC” DEPOT, MELBOURNE.
V\RM
Cheapest
OIL
PAINT
on
g ;!
THE
sdf
THE
‘PLUM
ENTLEMEN.—This razor is saperior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
O' jiifp a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind o
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having harl them in use for a number of years, can testify tc
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE M PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7#. 6d.
“ RAZOLEO ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
„ f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 108. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
PBICB n gi e Razor, in Ivory Handle, 158. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents; CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFE
EVERYWHERE.
‘ - . . . ■
BUSHMAN
:n,
Price Is. Id
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using- CASE’S ASTHMA CURE,, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4-s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st. 9 Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
m (to Bald!
sd
-Dr. Walsh, of the London Skin
Hospital, says:—“Oily and per-
fumed preparations may be
charged with bacteria . . in
health they are needless and in
disease a danger.”
CAPILLA
Hair Tonic
is a clean, spirituous and medical
preparation, without a trace of any
perfume or harmful ingredients.
Mr. Davrd Lowndes, Petrie Ter-
race, Brisbane, writes : —“ While
in Sydney I purchased a bottle of
your Capilla, and I find it to be
an excellent restorer. I enclose a
postal note for two more bottles.”
All Chemists and Storekeepers stock
Capilla. _ . _
2/6a bottle.
Or I will post to you a full course of
six bottles, and letter of advice for £l.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor and Inventor,
164 Pitt St, Sydney, N.S.W.
Hendon Sjpa Water. A Natural Liquid Food. From Helidon, Queensland.
The Bulletin
Vol 25.—N0. 1247.]
[Thursday, January 7, 1904
Registered at the Genera!- Past Office, -Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Book trade Advertisement.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
British Industries, Edited by Ashley, 6s 6d, postage 6d.
Cook & Powinore, Spiritualism (Pro & Con Series), 3s, p. 4d.
Studies in Irish History, 1649-1775, 3s 6d, p.^d.,.
Cobden's Political Writhigs, 2 Vols., 7s, p. lOd.
Hocking (Joseph), Follow the Gleam, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. fed.
Oxenham, Barbe of Grand Bayou, 2s 6d & 3s6d, p. 6d.
Meade (L.T.).That Brilliant Peggy, 2s 6d & 3sfed, p. fed.
Labor & Protection, by Various Writers, 6s, postage 6d.
Adye, Horse Breeding, 12s 6d, p. Bd.
Carter, Doctors and their Work, 6s, p. 6d.
Williams, Story of the Organ (Music Story Series),4s, p. 6d.
Steuart, The Hebrew, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Jacobs, Odd Craft, 2s Gd & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Max Penaberton, Dr. Xavier, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King; St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
For Publication on January 17 .
Pbil may in Australia
A collection of the artist’s most notable drawings for
The Bulletin , including some two hundred
cartoons, portraits, and humourous pictures.
Demy folio (about 18 in. x 12 im),printed on superfine
paper, and handsomely bound in decorated cloth, with
special end-paper. With a note on the life and work of
May, and a full iconography.
Edition limited to 975 copies at 108. 6d. ; and 25 copies
in superior binding, with extra plate, at £1 1-18. 6d.
Note.—This volume includes a full series of reproduc-
tions of the best of Phil May’s Australian work. For the
personal and historical interest of the book, no less than
for the artistic value, it must remain a unique Australian
publication. The greatest care has been taken in the
facture to produce a worthy memorial of May’s talent.
Subscribers’ names, with remittance, may be sent to
The Bulletin offices. Sample copies may be seen at The
Bulletin offices, 214 George-street, Sydney, and 369
Collins-street, Melbourne.
The Publishers reserve the right to increase the price
after publication, if found desirable.
Hudson's Eumenthol Jujubes
(registered) THE GREAT ANTiSEPTIC REMEDY
For INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, and ALL AFFECTIONS of
the THROAT and LUNGS, and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
ASK FOR HUDSON'S, and take n» substitute ■ AN IDEAL REMEDY,
u§
so
as
Containing no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROAT, LOSS
OF VOICE.
The * Australasian Medical Gazette ” says:
“ Of great service in affections of the voice and throat, 1
IN TINS, 1/6.
Mav be taken daily by old and young. Their antiseptic properties prevent abnormal f
and are thus helnftil in Induction an 1 Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists. Tins, 1/6. Agents in all the Australl
States and New Zealand. SYDNEY DKPOT :5St 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
lufacturer: G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich) Queensland
THE RED PAGE.
VERSIONS
Quando cadran lefogli* et tu verrai
A eerear la mia crone in campo santo
In un cantuccio la ritroverai
E nxolto fior It saran nati aceanto.
Cogli tu allor pi tuoi biondi eapelli
I fiori nati dal mio cor. Son .quelli
I canti ehe pensai ma che non scrissi,
Le parole d'amor che non ti dissi.
Olivmdo Gusrrini.
Jt
Lorsque vow verrez une tonibe obscure
Oil mil n'a jamais ripandu dee fleurs,
Couples amoureux, passant d’aventure,
Lee fleurs qui sont Id ne sont pas des fieure.
Cequi sort ainsi, parfumi, de terre,
Ce sont, avec moi disparus jadie,
Les pensers d'amour qu'il m’afallu taire
Et les mots d’amour que je n'ai pas dits.
Lucian dh Filler.
Ji
When the leaves fall, and to the burial-ground
You come to seek the grave where I lie lowly,
In some dim comer you shall find a mound
With many a gentle flower to make it holy.
Then, for that fair gold head, dear, pluck betimes
Blossoms my heart has nourished to enfold you:
These are my dreams of sweet unwritten rhymes,
JVonte of my love that I have never told you.
Some Others of that Cult .
A DECLINE and fall of even the hope of
literature in Melbourne may be dated
from about the time of the death of
Marcus Clarke. It seemed as if the
death-frost which chilled him to day nipped
many a bud of promise into sterility. A good
deal was expected from Garnet Walch in those
days. More still from one who is now utterly
forgotten, Walter W. Swan. And Walstab, too,
was in his prime, with the smell of Asia still
strong on him. J. J. Shillinglaw was to give us
something new about Captain Cook,, and all the
facts of Flinders's life and Bass’s death. G.
Gordon McCrae had copyrighted a few pages of
his Comic History of Australia. Old Bob
Whitehead and even “ Jack ” Bunster were sus-
pected of lurking genius of a coarse-grained sort,
and The Argus and Australasian were still open
to anybody who could say anything a little better
than it had been said before.
Walter Swan, from his newspaper office in Sta-
well, wrote the second-best novel so far published
in Australia. Robbery Under Arms comes first
easily. Hake Miner's Harvest is an unmistakeable
second. It won in the competition for the 100/.
pri/.e offered by The Sydney Mail proprietary in or
about 1878. (It will be noted that this proprietary
encourages literature to the extent of 100/.
once in each quarter of a century.) Luke
Miver’s Harvest is really a novel with Australia
in all its breadth and bareness, its sordidness and
its wealth ; its crudity and unrealised possibility
in every line. A bit crude itself maybe, but
genuine and strong. And the man who wrote it
did nothing else worth recording, and writes no
more now for ever. Still, let us keep hold of that
one little bit and set a light on it that may make
a glowworm glimmer along all the future.
Boor Garnet Walch. His name was big in
those days, and earlier he had written “The
Little Tin Plate,” and many other clever things.
He had done pantomimes which did not lack
sparkle or humour. He had always a play on the
stocks, and held a nice little-billet, with plea-
sant literary environment, as secretary of the
Athenaeum. Last time I saw Garnet he was like
an end of thread which a tailor has plucked out
of his needle—(one Chamisso used that expression
first)—-and .. . there was nothing done. Even as
the once robust body, the germinal and seemingly
fertile mind had withered. No song, no book, no
play; “no nothing hardly;” for the dramatisa-
tion of Robbery Under Arms is with things which
do not count unless on the wrong side. Walstab
sterilised in similar fashion, working industriously
enough in evening journalism, which also is
Marah and ashes.
*
“Satan’s Ganymede” makes a tragic note in
the mean and sordid time. He went over to the
flesh pots, took a wife with money and a billet at
the Exhibition, with L. L. Smith for taskmaster.
Thence one day he was a-igissing. Another day
and another passed ; books and cash correct,
notwithstanding. Then on a certain morning a
man, more wan than he who took into Macbeth
the tidings of his last hour, rushed headlong down
from the tower of the Exhibition building. He
had found something unked there. It was “ ”
hanging by his neck from the topmost beam of
the cupola.
Gordon McCrae wrote a book of many verses,
not all bad ; but why did he not finish the
History ? He had several good sketches pre-
pared, the notions of which were worthy of Phil
May. One represented a bit of old Sydney
Government House life in Macquarie’s time. A
group of ladies in the foreground debated the
question of precedence with some vehemence;
and a flunkey, with a Bow-street runner’s nose
(finger alongside it) looked on. Another of that
sort speaks deferentially : “ Ladies! may I
suggest that you enter in the order of your convic-
tions.’- The other is, “A new variety of fowl.”
Poor qld Bligh, of course, coming out from under
the bed. A foul lie is this, but... devilishly well
told. Maybe it was the excellent aptness of these
and other sketches which barred the publication
of that book, for I cannot think that McCrae
failed to bring it to completeness.
j*
One who did keep up his head well in that time
was “The Vag.”—“ Julian the Apostate,” as he
lived to be called. His coming was as the coming
of Arthur in its ambiguity, but not otherwise. All
the world, maybe, has not heard the story. Hugh
George {Argus) had come to his office’late one
night and was disturbed by a row outside. He
found an angry man who wanted the editor, and
the editor at that hour was not visible to strangers.
“ Could I serve your turn ?” “ That might be if
I knew your rating.” “Manager of this paper.”
“ I’m a journalist, and it seems to me journalism’s
wanted, and darned bad, on this paper.” “I
looked him up and down,” said George; “he
was not elegantly attired, but he forestalled any
oomment by the observation —“ Never mind the
bags, boss ! —he’ll shine when he strips.” End of
it was a guinea and instructions for an article;
and that end was the beginning of much fun.
The old Yag. in later years made a lot of fun by
his truly splendid audacity. Who can forget him
entering the big room of the Yorick, the crimson-
lined daps of his martial cloak thrown back, the
right eye blazing, and the left —a bit swivel —•
rolling passing strange. He had just returned
from St. Hubert’s, and—“ Well, boys,” said he,
“old St. Hubert’s damned. Went up there to-
day as usual, expecting to be met by a Frenoh
gentleman, and was turned back from the
gate by a dirty Irish...what not!” The fact
was that Castella had sold out the week
before to an eminent Melbourne merchant, of
Irish extraction, with whom the Vag. had not
played chanies. “What did you do, Vag. ?”
‘\l cursed him by all my gods, and went across
to the pub.” The Vag. in his earlier city sketches
did the best descriptive work we have seen in
Australia. Hugh George admitted openly his
engagement was the most profitable he ever made
for the paper. But he made a fool-finish. Two
sets of initial letters got into his head, and they
ruined him. “There are the F.F.V.’s, he
said, “and by God, sir, they do not consort with
the F.C.F.’s.” The First Families of Virginia
and the First Convict Families of New South
Wales, of course. They were blared and bruited
about at the “Colinderies”in Glasgow. The old.
reps, of the old, old families of the old State
beoame wroth, and cables went over fast.
The end was another cable, all plain talk, from
Collins-street to the Vag. In wrath he
sought advice and got it, to the effect that the
matter was libellous and the despatoh by cable
publication. A writ for ten thousand pounds,
then, of which nothing oame; and a long and
happy connection closed with the ourt acknow-
ledgment that Mr. Julian Thomas’s services had
been appreciated by the paper and that he vacated
his position of his own free will. The old chap
did not strike many good strokes after that, but
went about head up, and chest expanded, till he
died—pen in hand, copy-slip half-covered, head
for the first time down (for He Who Is to be
Obeyed had passed). So they found him, stiff and
cold. He left one good book, Convicts and Canni-
bals, which is anathema to French officials and
English missionaries, and therefore doubtless
tolerably accurate and certainly well worth
reading.
Very early in the seventies (which is harking
back a bit) I met a man in Melbourne who pro-
posed a visit to the Yorick Club. I asked should
we see the essayist of The Australasian there ?
and that man laughed. “ There is a story about
that,” said he ; “the question was once mooted
of his admission, and the president settled it by
saying, “Why, I understood the Yorick Club
was formed to keep Birnie out.” But why ? It
had seemed to me always that the man who wrote
those essays must be fit company for men or
angels. (Those were salad days.) Poor old
Birnie !—-a little experience answered the question.
In the eighties I met him. Garrulous in speech
as terse with his pen, sordid in life as elegant in
his discussing of all life’s concerns. And still I
hold that those essays, or the best of them at
least, are gold from the refiner’s furnace. He
died on top first, poor Birnie, and they took him
out to the Yarra Bend to get ready for the under-
takers.
J*
That was a cruel and sordid time in Melbourne
for literature unendowed and unwilling, or
unable, to take to the mill-horse work of keep-
ing the records. There was another side. The
schoolmasters in affluent circumstances were
posing as litterateurs, and with abundant success.
Alexander Sutherland was accepted as a critic, a
poet, a historian (God help Melbourne of the
eighties!), and W. H. Fitchett was running a
school, a church, and a newspaper, and preparing
for that blood and blazes crusade with which he
stormed first The Argus and next the Tomfool-
dom of the world a decade later. There was also
Professor Hearne, with 'The Aryan Household,-
which is not an Australian book, but a world’s
classic. And there was Kreutzer Maecenas
Turner, looked up to as a kindly patron and
trustworthy guide. His guidance would, in a
literary way, have been fatal as that of
the strange - woman spoken of in the Pro-
verbs, in another sort; while as to patronage,
he could not even birl his Kreutzer till he
had reported the case to that abomination of deso-
lation in the holy place, the C.O.S. The professor
is the only man on that side who has our esteem.
As to those others, it is not to be said that any
one of them was of the heaven-born, or to the
altar consecrated. But this much may be said,
and with absolute assurance, each one had a pellet
of the pith of the true matter in him, and might
under happier circumstances have helped the
world in his time and cast a few germinal grains
on the lap of the future. Therefore, it is not to
be permitted to Philistinism to snuff them wholly
out.
F.M.
A book of Satires and Verses, by Davison
Symmons, found limited publication at Melbourne in
October. Symmons was a journalist who gained a reputa-
tion on The Argus staff, and died last July in his forty-
first year. D. Macdonald, who writes a prefatory sketch,
says that it was as one of the three original contributors
to “ The Passing Show ” in The Argus on Saturdays that
Symmons first made his name, and he it was who sug-
gested the signature “ Oriel ” still attached to this
column. The book contains some seventy 4to. pages of
verse, or prose and verse intermingled—light, bright
rhymes on subjects of the hour, not perfect in form, but
composed with evident fluency, and often handled
cleverly. The mode is often that of parody or
humourous exaggeration ; and, as the preface suggests,
it is a pity that the points arp usually of momentary
interest and the permanent value of the work is slighter
than the author’s merit. But the satire on local rhymers
in “Poetry as a Fine Art” is iikely to continue readable :
Oh, our gallant G. Cross, yes in spite of her shoulder
And her big bumble foot, was the pride of the stud ;
Chuck your leg o'er her back, ’t was a terror to hold tier —
She ‘d windgalls and spavins, but yet she had blood.
For her sire was a hoss—good old Rafferty’s Willy,
And her dam teas a pedigreed Tanglefoot mare ;
So the Poison blood ran in the veins of that filly,
The pride of Coobilly— the old G. Cross mare.
“ The backblooks ” are quite capable of reading that seri-
ously. “ The Poetry of the People,” a set of satirical
imitations of the Purtell manner, is no less taking. The
rare serious pieces are not so effective —this, for example,
of a death in shipwreck, is on the verge of anti-climax :
He scanned the waves with a seaman's eye,
But never a rescuing sail in view —
Death in the billow, death in the sky,
Death in the hovering sea-bird’s cry —
Knew !—he knew
What was the duty he had to do,
With a sinking ship and a dying crew.
But " Patriotic Poetaster ” and “ The British Sunday ”
are gaily inspired—
Oh, give us our English Sunday, with its reverent air of
gloom,
And the smell of the Sunday dinner suffusing ths stuffy
room ;
And the children, peevish and fretful, in dread of the
threatened slap
That chastens the first disturber of father's postprandial
nap.
In through the open windows the breath of the Sunday
titrims,
Tinkling of parlour organs—Moody and Sankey’s hymns,
Subtle whiffs of the gutter, oaths, and curses, and cries —
This is the British Sunday -we all of t is love and prize.
There are several similar good things, displayed often in
dexterous metre. Perhaps “ The Socialistic Quarrel,” in
which one Labour orator accuses another from The Argus
point of view, is happiest of all. Symmons will be fairly
represented by full quotation.
THE SOCIALISTIC QUARREL.
Oh, ’Ancock,'aughty ‘Ancock—to turn again and rend
A pal as alius stuck to you—yer old familiar friend.
But with the serpent’s poisonous tooth of base ingrati-
tude,
Yer stabbed me through my vittles—which I never thought
you would.
Once we was ’appy, ‘Aneock ; them timet is gone, alas !
When oft-times in some ’andy pub. we shared a social
glass,
And likewise in my ’umble ‘ome you’ve peeked a bit with
me —
Which you alius liked an onion as a relish with yer tea.
And there was onions, ‘Aneock ; but there was more
behind —
A friend that ‘ung upon yer words— a welcome warm and
kind ;
Yes, one who thought that ’Ancock’ s words must always
be sincere 1
So vanish friendships only made in onions and in beer.
Once you was ‘umble, ‘Ancock, yer style was not so loud ;
But now that you’re a M.L.A. success has made you
proud.
Still I ’ll not cuss thee, ‘Ancock, ’owever false you be,
Let ‘Eaven and the ballot-box be judge 'twixt you and me.
Let ‘Eaven’s be the ‘and, ‘Ancock, to strike the final
blow
That on the dawn of freedom’s morn shall lay the traitor
low.
When with ‘er sickle in 'er hand she garners in 'er crops,
And me and Flynn is occupied in lootin’ of the shops.
An 'eated fancy goads me on to prophesy the scene b
When tyrant Trenwith quails and shakes before the
guillotine,
And through the streets of Collingwood the ‘ungry wolf
shall prowl,
A-bitin 'yer constituents—'owl! ‘aughty ‘Ancock, ‘owl l
MEMORANDA
The precious. Whistler’s The Gentle Art of
Making Enemies is being reprinted by Heinemann at 10s.
6 d. net. Oscar Wilde’s Poems, long out of print, were
recently reprinted by a Paris pirate in 500 copies at 215,.
net. The new Amer. Mosher edition of these poems, at
$3 net, includes “ Ravenna,” “ The Sphinx,” and “ Read-
ing Gaol,” besides the 1881 book. John Lane announces
at 7s. 6<f. net Under the Hill, a book Of Aubrey Beards-
ley’s work.
Of absent authors. A. H. Adams recently had
an article in 27te Nineteenth Century (Bond.) and a tale in
The Cosmopolitan (N. Y.). His completed serial story for
boys is to be republished in a book. On the whole, his
fluency and persistency seem to be confirming an English
footing. Louise Mack’s stories of school-days, Teens and
Girls Together, after running through a girls’ magazine,
have been republished in book form in London. Louis
Becke has recently published Helen Adair'-, but the life
has- left his stories—-and the sale. His work no lppger
sustains his reputation, and his reputation scarcely sus-
tains his work. f
L. Hopkins, traveller, was interested in New
York by the magazine illustrators’ trade union. Some
ten years ago there was a reflux of smart American
designers from Paris ; and careful publishers lowered
prices. The elder illustrators found that they Were in
danger of being left high and dry by a falling market;
called the younger men to aid ; and established a club
which practically fixes a scale of payments for illustra-
tions. Harper’s Weekly and the rest now pay up to old.
a page instead of the 10 1. that “ Hop.” remembers ; and
advertised work like Christy’s and Gibson’s is rated even
more highly. So the best men live in clover, and “my
country house ” and “my yacht’’ are common expres-
sions in the studios.
Three brothers of the remarkable Lindsay
family are professional illustrators—Norman and Lionel
in Sydney, and Percy in Melbourne. A sister, Ruby,
published a drawing in Xmas Critic. The no less remark-
able Dyson family provides one author— Edward, and
two illustrators—Ambrose and William; while a sister,
Jessie, published a drawing in Xmas Punch. And the
two families have been recently united by marriage.
The first edition of Darwin’s The Origin of
Species (price 6 d. ; posted B d.) is latest of the Ration-
alist Press Association’s cheap reprints. This series now
includes eleven volumes by Hukle.v, Tyndall, M. Arnold,
H. Spencer, J. C. Morrison, G. Allen, Haeckel, E. Clodd,
S. Laing, and Darwin. No worthier or essentially
cheaper books are printed in English. Everyone should
own them and read them. The George Robertson Pro-
prietary supplies the set for ss. 6 d. ; posted anywhere for
7s.
The Manchester Guardian, from mttny points of
view the best of Eng. newspapers, finds the illuminating
word for Furphy’s Such is Life. “Itis a book for light-
houses and long voyages ’’—and large, calm Bush spaces,
one may add.
Gabriele d’Annunzio was one of the bride-
groom’s witnesses at the Rudini-Labouchere marriage at
Florence in November. The marriage was signalised by
Labouchere’g careful withdrawal from his villa while the
religious ceremony was taking place inside. This is
surely an irreclaimable infidel! p
A complete file of The Bulletin, from the first
number, is worth about 401., and is rarely offered at that
price. W. Dymock, the well-known Sydney bookseller,
has an incomplete file priced at 251., with some months
missing in 1880, 1881, and 1882, but with the rare
early issues from January to May, 1880, intact. Other
rarities in the same bookseller’s very large second-hand
stock, which should be known to all book-buyers, are
sixteen volumes of The Empire, commencing in 1850 ; an
illustrated reprint of Burton’s Arabian Nights ; a collec-
tion of “State Trials" (10 vols., 1750); and a large,
collection of first editions of Dickens, Lever, Thackeray
and others. Catalogues may be had by country customers.
Henri de Eegnier, replying to a querist, finds
only one living French novelist worth mention—Anatole
France. “He, he is of Ferney—an admirable writer, to
whom we owe much. He is classic: there are others
whom I admire sincerely. As for foreign novels, I hare
always had an unaffected liking for those of d’Annunzio ;
and everything that I have read by George Meredith has
enchanted me.”
H.: In the course of following Art (!) I’ve been
drawing illustrations for a tailor’s advt. The tailor
complains bitterly' of the glaring faults of Bulletin draw*
ings from his point of view. Vincent and A. Dyson put
their buttons on the wrong side of the coat, he says. (So
they do ; I looked ’em up.) And as for cut, fit, and
style ! Why don’t artists subscribe to The Tailor and
Cutter ? As for me, by following instructions I have
raised myself in that tailor’s mind to the position of
“ the best artist in Australia !"
RECEIVED
The Beryl Stones, a story by Mrs. Alfred 1 Sidg-
wlck (Lond., Arnold ; 2s. 6 d.). Unremarkable.
About Poets and Poetry, by John Christie (Well.,
N.Z. Times) is a 36pp. reprint of an article dealing chiefly
with J. L. Kelly’s verses. “Have you not observed,”
says the writer, “ that genius is not a thing of localities,
but is as likely to be found in a village of huts as in the
metropolis of an Empire? Wherever it is found, it is the
rarest manifestation of the divine of which human nature
is capable, and should ever be welcomed with gladness
and reverence,” etc.
The Machinations of Janet, by Sarah Tytler
(Lond., Long; 2s. 6<L) Janet was a young woman so
fond of cooking and scouring, sweeping and dusting,
that, though the possessor of 30,000?., she put her wealth
behind her and continued ardently cooking and scouring,
sweeping and dusting. Some husbands might like to buy
the book for a gift with a moral: there is no other reason
for buying.
Anglo-Americans, by Lucas Cleeve (Lond.,
Bell; 2s. 6d.) A story of women in their relation to
American and English males. The point that among
U.S.A. well-to-do classes the man is devoted to the
woman, while in England the woman is devoted to the
man, is emphasised in a.tolerable story. “The English-
man marries as he buys a horse, a picture ; the woman is
part of his domesticity, but the note of domesticity in
himself is wanting. His wife must always be there to
wait on his moods, not he on hers.”,
The Children Who Pan Away, by Evelyn
Sharp (bond., Macmillan; 2s. 6 d.) Pictures of childish
character, with an elder love-story in the background.
The detail is conscientious and depressing.
Barbara Winslow : Rebel, by Betlv Ellis (Edin.,
Blackwood; 2s. 6d.). An Eng. romance of love and
adventure in the day of the Monmouth rising. Mechani-
cally efficient ; uninspired and null.
An Irish Cousin, by E. Somerville and M. Ross-
(Lond., Longmans; 2s. 6ri.) A gloomy story, with gleams
of hilarity due to Irish scenes and characters. “ Admirable
novel,” “bright vivacity,” “delightful picture,” “Charles
Lever at his best,” are Eng. critical phrases—influenced,
one imagines, by the authors’ better work./.
The Boy, Some Horses, and a Girl, jy Dorothea
Conyers (Lond., Arnold ; 2s, 6 A.), is a jolly Irish story,
and a hook to exorcise blue devils. It is a slight thing,
to be sure, making no pretensions to superiority ; but it
holds andi gives real gaiety. “Oh, surely, Norah,” says
a married Irish peasant—“ well, the match was almost
med betune us ;. but Mary Moylan here, she was always
great wid Miss Maguire above, an’ the lady guv her a line
cow to have as a fortin whin she married, an’she had wan
before. So Mary havin’ two cows, an’ Korah Magee but /
wan, I changed me mind, for sure yer honour knows that
there is n’t the differ of a cow betune any two women in
the world.”
The Heart of Rome, by F. M. Crawford (Lond.
Macmillan ; 2s. 6tf.) Crawford’s yearly novel with the
sentimental foreground, the- adventurous middle, and
the dubious Italian background, is to be avoided by-
most people—seeing that all authors in grooves are to be
avoided. Crawford is one of many who, years ago, set
down an integer of more or less temporary value
9ay 3; and who- now, past the point of crisis, recur
yearly with a moulmful 222222 till the grave swallows
author and series. The Heart of Rome is fiction agree-
able and workmanly enough ; but in it arid the rest there
is no spur, no nourishment. It does not pay ,to waste
life in dige-iting literature’s husks : even the kernels are
often bought too dearly.
The Key of Paradise, by Sidney Pickering
(Lond., Arnold ; 2s. 0(t.), is a novel of love and adventure
in Italy, well! written. The modern adventurous romance
proceeds according to formula : The Prisoner of
Zenda may be taken as a type. The modern adventurous
romance is hardly worth reading, but Pickering manages
it jusft as well as Anthony Hope, at all events.
The Sketcher, No. 18, illustrated by F. Raynor
(Dunedin ; Wilkie and Co. ; 6 d.) Some of the drawings
ate tolerable imitations ; some are intolerable.
The Struggle for Sea Power, by M. B. Synge
(Edin., Blackwood; Is. Sld.) is the fourth volume of a
, “ Story of the World ” series for schools. The plan is to
narrate cardinal episodes dramatically ; and this volume
is perhaps the best of the series, though in touching Aus-
tralia Phillip is four times called Governor “ Phillips.’
The illustrations are not good, and far too scanty .
children’s books should be half pictures.
The Inter-Marriage of Disease, by F. A.
Nyulasy ( Maryborough Standard, Vic.)—a pamphlet of
44 pp., is disgracefully printed. Possibly it was worth
printing, to enforce a popular moral; but it contains
little that is original. .
[?]


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
STTDUXrES'X".
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Rabbit and Opossum
SKINS
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation. SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
for sorb and weak eyes, blight, and
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
\X pOk ALL bye troubles.
LI tO NEVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book •
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
(Leading House for Sporting: Goods and Tobacco!
MEN'S TREBLE SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, S^oz.-Won-
derful Value.
Ib, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS—
-ss, 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS-
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS-
-Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.- sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ \No. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
BATSJ 6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, ls6d, Cs, 2s 6d
BOYS’ BATS, \No. 3 4 5 6
Cane— / 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \ss 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d
All Cane— J9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d
MEN’S CANE
and RUBBER V
BATS- J
14s 6d, 15s, 15s 6d, 16s 6d
17s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s, 25s
Send for Catalogue, Post Free—full
list of Bats, by all Best Makers,
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG- GUARDS-
Boys’, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS-
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10a 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
15s set
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, 88s 6d, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
3s 6d
Manncap
5s
STANbARb
7s 3d
Ascot
The above are a new departure in
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24a
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 255, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players—
30s, 40s, 60s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, &o.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg
SLAZENGER’S Covered..
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered
AYRES’ Champion...
... 4s 6d doz.
9s 6d
... 10s
... 16s
8s 6d
12s 6d, 15s
... 10s
TAYLORS
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 20s, 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped by the
N.S. W. Bowling Association.
Remittance, including' payment for
freig;ht, must accompany each order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
fsd
To all who want to regain their
health, who want to have their
strength restored to them, we offer
oneof our Illustrated Books.
They describe the treatment by
Electricity of all kinds of Chronic
cases, going carefully into detail;
and illustrations show how the
current is directed to all parts of
the body. We send the book post
paid to any address. It thoroughly
explains to you the value of our
Belt, and shows you a few of the
very grateful people we have cured.
We will send one, closely sealed, to
anyone who wishes it. If you are not as well as
you ought to be, send for one to-day. Why suffer
when you have a speedy cure for your trouble 1
Grateful Testimony.
MR. GEO. M'CANN, Pittsburg, N.S.W., writes:—
“Dear Sirs Belt I purchased from you has
done me a lot of good, and I know it. Th© pains
in the lower part of my body have all left me,
and I feel certain that I am now cured. Con-
sidering the short time I have been wearing the
Belt, | think I have done very well, and am
thankful that I started your treatment.”
MR. DUNCAN M'LEOD, Carara, Curlewis, N.S.W., says
“ Dear Sirs, —I am very thankful for the good your belt has
oone me. After about three weeks’ use I have not a pain
about me, or the slightest sign of diarrhoea. I have not taken
one dose of medicine since I have been using the Belt, and I
consider | am as well as ever I was in my life.”
MR- J. W. CARNBR, Coolabah, N.3.W., writes
‘Dear Sirs,—Since I got your Belt I have been In good
e alth, with no pains or rheumatism. We have had some
very trying weather lately, and without your Belt I would
have been very bad.”
the dr. McI.AUOHI.IN go.,
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office—l67E. Swanston St. N.Z. Office—s 4 Willis St., Wellington.
LET us give you back your Health and Vigor, without which
there can be no happiness, no joy, no peace, and, as a conse-
quence, life becomes a misery. How many men are there at
the present time in this great country who are living a miserable
existence, and go on from day to day getting worse, and never think
that their trouble will become chronic ; whereas if they came to us
we could, within the space of a month or two, change the whole
aspect of their lives, make them feel that life is a pleasure. Yes—
Or. f|)e[auglilin’s Electric gelt
will give you back that Health and Strength which every one of you
desire. No man could ask for more ! No man would expect more
than that. A great many have been seeking it for years by the
•MIT
Are Yon
aid" of Drugs without getting any benefit;
they have read of our Wonderful Belt, sent
for it, and to-day they cannot thank us suffi-
ciently, for we have cured them. Proof we have
of these Marvellous Cures, and, anyone desiring
it, we can send them sufficient evidence of the
great good our Belts have done.
MEN I LET US APPEAL TO YOU !
Do not go on wasting your lives; come to us and we promise you we will give you relief from
your trouble, whether your complaint be Constipation, Weak Back, Varicocele, Insom-
nia, Dyspepsia, Acidity, Come-and-Go Pains, That Languid, Tired Feeling, Blcod
Disorders, Rheumatism, Nervousness, Liver, Kidney and Bladder Troubles, Lum-
bago, Sciatica, Indigestion, and other ailments, our Belt will give you almost instant relief.
“Electricity is Life,” and, as applied by our Belts, it sends a soothing current of
f
Vital Nerve Force
throughout the
entire system.
After wearing it
a few days you
begin to feel your
Strength and
Vitality returning.
To the man whose strength and vitality is failing through business and other
worries, it gives back his Nerve Power after a few days’ use. Do not Delay,
Men ! * Write to-day, or call and we will make you a FREE DIAGNOSIS
of your ailment. We absolutely charge you nothing, but we wish to prove to you
that our Belt is all that we claim it to be. We will be glad to explain every
detail of our treatment to you. . . „ u
CAUTION. Beware of advertisements purporting to otter Jtlectnc .belts
“ Free.” Write to us for full particulars. If anyone has wasted money on these
frauds write us and we will see that the money is refunded.
sdf


sdf
-^TOPS^l AIR FALLING OUT-
- PREVEN f< BA L DNES'S
7- posted 3/3-
ROMO
0 i‘y’Es’ L i ft'gto LO K TO GREY hAIR
* ■•■■& ‘~t~ ‘' avvtXtsw- vtx »■;. ft, ' , v
NO ACIDS
4* : P , il^ t 'f's 3l7CCV^ i , <d s 4
.
V
Flavelte, Roberts 4 Sankey,Ltd.
Lapidaries . ♦ . .
Gem Merchants and. ♦
Manufacturing Jewellers
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
ds
2
fsd
f
sd
fsd
f
Hi
sdf
dsfsdfsd
No. 1. —3 Fine Brilliant Diamonds £4O, smaller to £lO ; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds, £25.
No. 2.—5 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £5O ; 2 Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires, £lO to £25.
No. 3.—3 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamonds, £9 ; 3 Fine Pearls
and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4.—1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 5.—3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting, £lO to £l6.
No. 6.—3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
No. 7. —1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5 ; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B.—l Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9.—1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubies, £4 10s.
No. 10. —1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11.—2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
No. 12.—1 Queensland White Topaz (as brilliant AB th*
Diamond), £4.
No. 13.—Marquise of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
12
13
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OF UNSET OEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 OEMS ON HAND.
MEN] Obey the Scriptural injunction:—
‘‘acquit you as men: BE STRONG.
99
THE GRAND OLD DOCTOR.
Surgeon
Langston
M.R.C.S., Eng.
Late Surgeon in Imperial
Forces, Army Medical Staff,
Royal Engineers, formerly
Government Health Officer,
Tasmania, registered in Eng-
land and Australia, and
authorised by Act of Parlia-
ment to practice in all
branches of Medicine and
Surgery.
m
m
The OLDEST and MOST
RELIABLE SPECIALIST
in all cases of
Nervous Disorders,
Varicocele,
Rheumatism,
Kidney Troubles,
Lame Back,
Rupture*
HIGHEST HEALTH HONORS.
INVENTOR of the LATEST and GREATEST STRENGTH RESTORER.
Wi
THE TRIUMPH OF MEDICAL ELECTRICITY.
It is NOT a BELT, but BETTER than ANY BELT.
For Forty Years I have
been curing Thousands
suffering from the same
Weakness
as you.
Let me Cure You.
Many Benefits are lost
through hesitation.
It is easier to give you back
your
Health
now than it will be later on.
SURGEON
LANGSTONS
Combined Remedies
POR
Nervous Afflictions
AND
Associate Complaints
ARE THE
Reigning Remedies,
"Mens Sana in Corpore Sana.”
A treatise on Nerve Diseases
and Ailments of Men. The latest
medical thought put in the most
instructive and interesting form.
Teaches how to gain and retain
a sound mind in a sound body ;
post free for six stamps.
"Rupture: Its History and Cure.”
A valuable work, showing the
certainty of Restoration without
operation ; post free four stamps.
"Diseases of Mankind.” —A
handy compendium relating to
the symptoms, dangers, and cure
of Nervous Complaints, Kidney
Troubles, Nasal, Throat and
Lung Diseases, and associate
evils ; post free four stamps.
They tell you what you should
know, and what you want to
know.
Consult me FREE, either Personally or by Post.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
129 COLLINS STREET,
Melbourne. Victoria.
THE LAST OF SIX
Pr’oo od.,
Post Free.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at. .
N.B.—Visitors oijly pay for wbat tb«y actually bayc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
engage rooms at ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMIFETITIOU.
WINES Be>t o,iy SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS, Sux.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
f
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affection*.
The Physician’*
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most 1
crentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS!
MAGNESIA,
sdf
There’s SECURITY in
Carter's
ITTLE
IVERf
PI LLS
I
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dost. Small Price.
They TOUGH th.
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Carter’s
AN OFFER TO MEN
s ■ ss
WE have always given proof of anything that we
claimed for our Electric Belt, because we know
that there are people who claim a great deal more for
their remedies than the truth would justify. If you
want a remedy which will cure you, it seems wise for you
to take the one that has cured others. We have published
thousands of testimonials from cured patients, and we will
pay in gold for evidence showing that we have ever used a
testimonial which was not true and honest.
Dr. Austin’s Electric Belt
cures Rheumatism, Lumbago, Pains and Aches in any
part of the Body, Weakness in any part of the Body,
Tired Feelings, Sleeplessness, Premature Old Age, Weak
Stomach, Weak Kidneys, Loss of Vim and Ambition.
We don’t ask any man to buy our appliance on a specula-
tion. We know that it will cure these troubles, and we
want our pay only when the cure is complete. If we fail
in our task it’s our loss, not yours. All you lose is your
time, and if our Belt fails to cure you, you will have the
satisfaction of knowing that the best, strongest and finest electric body appliance in the
world—one with 50,000 cures to its credit —has failed, and that there is no cure for you in
electricity. Remember our terms are
PAY WHEN CURED.
_A_ Free Book.-We have just completed our Beautiful Illustrated Book, descriptive
of our treatment. It is worth reading. We will send it free upon request. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept. M.
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. |
New Zealand Branch : 19 Princes Street, Dunedin.


m
There is this
peculiar thing
about our Hair
Vigor : it's a hair-
food, not a dye.
It doesn’t turn
your hair sud-
denly black and
make it look dead
and lifeless. But
gradually the old
color comes back,
all the rich color it
used to have. And
it also stops falling
of the hair.
Even if your hair
isn’t coming out,
isn’t turning gray,
isn’t too short,
yet you certainly
want a fine dress-
ing for it, and here
it is.
It keeps the scalp clean and healthy,
removes all dandruff, makes the hair
grow rapidly, prevents it from falling
out, and does not allow a single gray
hair to appear.
Do not he deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A,
Wore a Torture
BELT.
SUFFERED TERRIBLE AGONY.
From wearing an Electric Belt
charged by the use of
SULPHURIC 71GID.
Mr. W. Folley, Alfred Woollen Mills,
Williamstown, Vic., writing to the Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt Co., tells how.he
was scarred and burned by the use of a
Free Belt, which he had erroneously
been led to believe was as good as theirs.
He paid £\ for the Free Belt because
he had been convinced that by paying
this cash price he was obtaining a similar
appliance to Dr. McLaughlin’s Famous
rejuvenator which has gained World
Wide fame as a Curative Agent. It goes
to show how misleading are advertise-
ments which seem to offer something for
nothing.
Gentlemen—ln answer to your kind in-
quiries after my health, I beg to state that
I have been completely cured of the Scia-
tica that has troubled me for years. I
cannot thank you enough for your gentle-
manly treatment and fair dealing with your
patients, as I know from others that their
treatment has been the same as mine.
I may just as well let you know my ex-
perience in seeking a cure for my trouble
before I purchased one of your High Grade
Belts. I had been under doctors and re-
ceived scant relief; and also tried various
quacks, but it was all the same. I then
placed myself in the hands of a Specialist
(in Melbourne) guaranteed to cure Rheu-
matism and Sciatica, but received very
small benefit from the treatment. I then
had my attention drawn to Electricity.
Well, t thought, “ Never venture, never
win,” so I PROCURED first of all a Belt
for £1 and was very much disappointed
because I was informed that it was neces-
sary to take a long and exceedingly ex-
pensive course of drug treatment. I would
not do this and then I wrote for, and ob-
tained a so-called Free Belt, with a
most “ Wonderful Pedigree,” at a cost of
£\. I wore the Belt according to the in-
structions given faithfully for a period of
five weeks, and by that time I was Burnt
and Blistered so badly that I could not
wear it longer, and still no relief was
gained, although the Belt was guaranteed
to Cure Anything in Sciatica in One
Month. You bet I was very much dis-
couraged in regard to Electric Belts.
However, I was persuaded to come and
just see you, gentlemen. I then found
that I had been wearing a Torture Belt
and very Wrongly Applied, and quite
enough to give and patient a Horror of
so-called Electric Belts. After the con-
sultation I decided to place myself m your
hands. I knew my case was very dilh-
cult, as I was compelled to follow my em-
ployment, and standing at the vice was
irksome, and the complaint was a very
stubborn one. However, gentlemen, your
Felt, coupled with your advice, has made
me a grateful patient. I thank you kindly
for supplying me with a remedy which has
Completely Cured Me, and stronglv recom-
mend it to all and sundry that I find are
suffering from the distressing ma.adv
called “ Sciatica.” .
I have not been wearing the Belt for the
past fortnight, but have passed it over to
my wife, who has received great benefit
for nervous troubles.
I remain, your grateful patient,
W.FOLLEY
GENUINE BELTS give GENUINE RELIEF.
Send to THE DR. MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
IOOW. Market-st., Sydney ; 1671 Swanston-st. Melbourne
H Willis-st., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian
Established 1549.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Lease) old C.'ty or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentui es Inscribed Stock or Treasu: y Bills of any of the Austra.lan States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
fpnti of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any One.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esa • Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; F. E. W inchcombe, Esq., M.P.
Manager and Actuary—Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. „ _ „
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
sd
m
rra7g|g)gigii|^i^ig|Sjs
i . \S>
Flavelle, Roberts & Sankey, Ltd*,
BRISBANE,
are now manufacturing all classes of
THERMOMETERS & HYDROMETERS.
Any SPECIAL* THERnOHETER made to order.
Thermometers, Barometers, etc., repaired at
short notice.
. . t. . ;jv V
fsd
f
sdf
sd
Doubla Seated
Turnout Seat
Buggy - £IBIO9.
With Brake and
Lamps.
Sulkies • £8 109.
Send for a
Catalogue.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex St., Sydney.
v
Ed Buggies
Reliable and
Strong, £9 l* 7 ®-
Large Stocks of
all light vehicles.
Buggies, Sulkies,
Phaetons. Send,
i for a Catalogue.
H. HILLIER,
130 Sussex-streeC
Sydney, N.s.w.
\
/
SMITH
H.F
*
FRISIANS
21/-
21/-
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value —best in Austral-
asia.
Yours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part ol Ji
Australia. V
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading Jeweller.
LJ ET
3
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
m
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES.
It’s the modem and systematic manner of loading that makes
Winchester Shotgun Cartridges shoot stronger, give better
pattern and penetration and more uniform results generally than
any other makes. No black powder shotgun cartridges compare
with Winchester “ New Rival ”in any way; while Winches-
ter “ Repeater ” Cartridges, loaded with smokeless powder, are
far ahead of all other makes, when the price is considered.
INSIST ON HAVING WINCHESTER MAKE.
Our Stock of WINCHESTER GOODS
Is unequalled in the Commonwealth. Catalogues Free.
PERRY BROS. -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C. p. and C.L.) or Government "Stock of
ny of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
LOAKS, ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any fine*
HARRISON, JONES* DEVLIN, 1 ™
Wool Brokers,
Fat Stock Salesmen,
Stock Station Agents.
Our Charge for selling
Wool of the New Clip
is reduced to
Cent
Being a Consolidated Charge
includes Commission, Insurance
while in Store, Weighing, Cata-
loguing, &c., &c.
Auction Sales held on alt advertised dates of Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, and all Stetion^r^duce.
Stores and Offices: Circular Quay, Sydney.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Woman’s Song.
A poet sang one song,
And with its pulsing fire
Awoke my woman’s passions strong,
And quickened my desire,
Till, like a moaning wire
That echoes music from a gong,
My soul replied to his, aflame
With love that will not die.
He kissed me—ah !—and spoke my name,
And then—he passed me by
(His eyes were on the sky).
A horseman rode out West
And left me all alone ;
He sang the song my heart loved best,
But oh! my heart was cold as stone,
Fearing the dangers guessed and known,
So that I could not rest.
I dreamed, I dreamed he would return,
And, at the eventide,
When glowing embers smoke and burn,
Would tell me of his ride
(I listening close beside).
A sailor sailed away
Into the rising sun
To fight through storm and starry spray
A battle never lost nor won.
I prayed to God for one life— one ;
I thought God’s angels heard me pray,
That he would come to me again
And lift his eyes a-shine.
The ships are full of gallant men,
Yet there were none like mine
(Ah, me ! His eyes a-shine !)
My husband counts his gold
Amid the noise of streets.
His back is bent, his face is old ;
Forgetting Life holds many sweets
He counts in cash Life’s passion beats,
His hand in mine lies cold.
He speaks no soft love-words to me —
Words my heart pines for, whispered low;
And yet it matters not, you see,
Because my heart broke long ago—
(The song the poet sang, you know).
Why did he ever sing that song ?
Why was my love so hot and strong ?
Ah! The jingling spurs as my horseman rode
Into the West with his sad heart’’s load.
And my sailor’s eyes as they stooped, a-shine,
To mirror the light o’ love in mine-.
Why did they come ? And, God, tell me why
I still live on as a living lie ?
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
The Rata.
O Rata, proudly borne on high
Thy purple treasure swings ;
Thou hast usurped the purple dye
Of emperors and kings;
They thro’ the years have borne the brunt
Of tempest and of flood ;
The purple on thy vaunting front
Is drawn from royal blood.
O Rata, not thy might alone
Hath raised thee up from earth ;
The king thou mad’st a stepping-stone
Lifts thee above thy worth ;
Thro’ others’ greatness thou art great,
With others’ fairness fair;
Had kings laid by their royal state,
Thou, Rata, wert not there !
What centuries of growth have built
Thou seizest as thine own ;
It is the blood that thou has spilt
That drapes thine airy throne ;
Death from thine arms’ embracing springs,
The monarchs are no more ;
True type of tyranny of kings,
No heart is at thy core !
M.L.
AHAU.
This Night.
Gas lamps, like stained stars fallen,
And hard, clear arc lamps shine ;
The half-moon fronts cloud squadrons
That flee in broken line
From this keen wind that wraps us,
As in a gabardine.
Awash on yellow margin
The river whispers low,
And silent, splendid pine trees
Guard us in changeless row.
We feel Night’s cool, soft fingers
Round us her peace-robe throw.
Yon city near us sleeping,
How far from us it lies !
Forgotten is Day’s bondage,
No more we’re worldly-wise.
We’re infidels to Mammon
Who sit ’neath Night’s pure skies.
We speak not, but dream only
(0 Dreams, so vain, so fair !).
Proud boats of hope we sail ia
Through azure seas of air,
With winds of joy to waft us
Afar from life and care.
O Time, whose march incessant
Turns sunbright locks to rime ;
Who dims so soon the glamor
That makes Youth’s joy sublime 5
Who drowns our faiths and follies—
Spare this night, O Time !
VIC.
LEONTINE SCOTT.
As a rough and ready rule, there are two
classes which should be kept out of Parliament-
Publicans and Pharisees, beer-pullers and coll c
tion-platers.


A NOVEL PRESENT.
ON receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Oct. Cold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire Kins, Col&’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
THE ELECTRIC ERA
•>V
if < ?.
a.
Which we send FREE
TO ALL .explains WHY
weak men are WEAK,
and STRONG men are
STRONG. It deals
comprehensively with
the CAUSES and
SYMPTOMS of disease.
It explains their
ORIGIN and shows
how they can be
SPEEDILY CURED by
restoring the consti-
tutional VITALITY
to the NERVOUS and
physically WEAK
MAN or WOMAN. It
tells you how LAME
BACK, KIDNEY
TROUBLES, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA,
ASTHMA, BRON-
CHITIS, INDIGES-
TION and TORPID
LIVER can be CURED. How WEAKNESS and
DEBILITY can be replaced by ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOR. It is of VITAL interest to the SICK, the
SUFFERING and the WEAK. It is sent in a PLAIN
SEALED envelope, and is FREE TO ALL. Call or write.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
Dept. H., 63 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly,
3S
1
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-.
able to ladies. ' indorsed by Physicians.
w* Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LAO/ SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Wr te for Booklet. Sent free, sealed
life
“ ACTS UKS A CHARM,
JONES’
»»
Hheumaticnro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CURE
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
2 S . 9d. PER BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
SAVE YOUR HAIR
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling nair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticuka Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with losb of hair, when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Pais,Paris. Potter Drug
and Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
PIITIPIIQA PCCniUEWT OHIO (Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
UU I luUlm fICOULILIII rILLO odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 hoses. Cuticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, and the purest, sweetest, most successful and
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives.
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
AERTEX
The Original
CELLULAR.
T)u Healthiest and most Comfortable Underwear for Me., Women and
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Aertex Cellular Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under similar
names.
The public are warned against buying imitations when described
as “just as good as Aertex."
SOLE AGENTS
Illustrated Catalogues
and Patterns postjree.
D. BRAHAM & CO.
73 and 75 King: Street.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
All Chemists.
Holland's ivi&rvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., 5s Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
ffl- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington 11. Soul & Co..
Pitt-street, Sidney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist! 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
LIST OF
BOOKS
f
BOOK OF STATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donblly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engrav ings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould's Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All Tiie Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise illypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc., Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Puiilic Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, l>y Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
ANu ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues : —No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE. —.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS.
PfIUT IS OUR HERITAGE, and what
UUU I THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
gout
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
J. LANDES,
cnaaHnnraaBiaBBBBHHHBnBM
108 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Largest and most reliable House in
Australasia for Automatic Machines and
Novelties of every description.
The biggest Money Making Machines for
Hotels, Refreshment Rooms, Tobacco-
nists, etc., always in stock, and each
machine guaranteed.
The following: are some of our best knswn Machines
in use :
The “Challenge” Punching Machine—ld. Slot
The Novelty Pool Table Machine (game skill)—3d. Slot-
pays value in goods.
The “ Australia ” —6 Slots Spots and P. Machine—3d. Slot
—pays value in goods.
The Monte Carlo—s Slots Machine—3d. Slot—pays value
in goods.
The Electric Pocket Lights, with extra recharge, reduced
from 21s. to 10s. 6d.
All Goods shipped freight paid.
683"0ur Illustrated Catalogue free on application.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Free for Asking:.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
DEAF
]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
REGULARLY at BEDTIME
USE
CALVERTS
20 per cent
CARBOLIC
SOAP
to prevent Mosquito bites. It is an excellent
antiseptic soap, refreshing and beneficial
to the skin, and a useful remedy for insect
bites, itch, and other skin irritation.
Each tablet in metal box.
CALVERT’S
15% CARBOLIC POWDER
offers a safe and simple precaution against
the spread of infection and disease.
Cheap to use, as it is so strong.
4 lb., 1 lb. and 2 lb. tins.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
England.
RUN-AWAY PRICES
This Month
to Advertise
our
Ostrich
Tips
3 Tips with
Ospreys,
Black, Cream,
or Black tipped
with White.
+ •
c
A MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS.
The Bunch
Post Free.
2 6
Postal. Note.
Write To-Day.
New Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHERSHOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention Tub Bulletin.


PAINTERS’ COLIC
EVIDEINTCE
VALUABLE TO THE TRADE.
_ Th© Case of
Mr. F. DAVISON.
(by our reporter.)
The annual exhibitions of pictures painted
by local artists receive more appreciation
from the public every year. The gene-
rous support accorded to such ex*
hibits serves as a graceful acknow-
ledgement of the advancement made by
students. The persistent and painstak-
ing efforts of our painters have an educa-
tional effect upon their numerous admirers,
who are agreeably made familiar with de-
pictions of typical Australian life and
scenery. Another division of painters to
whom appreciative recognition Is due are
those who embellish and decorate our
private residences and business establish-
ments. Mr. Francis Davison, of No. 27
Wyndham-street, Alexandria, belongs to
this class, in connection with which he had
something to say of an interesting charac-
ter :
“I think,” said Mr. Davison, “ that the
unhealthy materials used in my trade had
something to do with giving me years of
suffering. Painters are especially liable to
colic, w hich inflicts the most indescribable
pains in the bowels. My cause of trouble
was principally in the side ; at least, it was
there I was attacked first. The agony was
so great that 1 used to break out in a state
of perspiration through sheer excess of pain.
Often when walking down the street I was
suddenly seized with such dreadful parox-
ysms, which completely doubled me up,
making it impossible for me to walk for
se\ eral minutes.”
“ How long wer£ you thus afflicted ? ”
“ For fully five years I did not know
what it was to be free from pain, which
afterwards appeared in the stomach with
increased violence. Indeed, the piercing
shafts of torture which assailed that region
made me moan with pain, from which I
hardly ever experienced a respite. I
rapidly became so exhausted and worn out
that my friends were anxious about my
condition, and my family were in great dis-
tress whenever they heard me groaning. A
little relief was obtained through the ap-
plication . f hot fomentations and various
kinds of poultices ; but the ease only lasted
about a minute, and then I could feel the
pains gradual'y coming back, until its full
force burst upon me again with increased
severity, and prostrated me with its
violence. I was often incapable of going
to work, and even when I did go I was
afraid to undertake the perilous positions
w hich painters have sometimes to occupy.
I avoided as much as possible ascending
ladders, in case of a sudden seizure of my
trouble rendering me powerless- to hang
on.”
“ You appear to have had a bad time?”
“ Yes, I had. There was a feeling of un-
certainty and anxiety in my mind every
morning as to what the day would bring
forth. Quite unaccountably, I could not
discard from my thoughts the notion that a
dreadful accident, or some impending evil,
was in store for me.”
“ Perhaps you are naturally nervous?”
“No ; quite the reverse. Before my
sickness came on I did not know whet fear
or nervousness were. I could go out in the
dead of night and confront any danger with-
out the least hesitation. But now my
nerves were completely shattered. I was
afraid of my own shadow. Naturally
enough I sought medical advice, a doctor
visiting and prescribing for me regularly.
This occurred when I was living in Queens-
land, and I don’t mind telling you that by
this time I was reduced to a skeleton
through my inability to eat, which I very
seldom did. I had no appetite whatever ;
but, knowing that if I did not eat a little
to keep body and soul together I would
soon die of starvation, I used to try and
brace myself up when meal times came
round, and take my seat at the table.
Directly the food was placed thereon I was
overcome with a tsrribi® sickness at tho
stomach. Hurriedly vacating my chair, I
used to go outside, where continual retch-
ing brought on insufferable headaches and
giddiness. By way of variety my stomach
occasionally wanted food. I felt as though
I could really enjoy a little, but a few
minutes after swallowing anything I had
severe pains in the chest, and swelling, be-
sides acute sensations under my shoulders.
It was a very rare thing to have a nights
sleep, although I went to bed every evening
feeling quite exhausted and done up. I
was accustomed to rise in the morning with
a nasty taste in the mouth, after turning
restlessly about nearly all night, with my
limbs aching with intense weariness, and
the pains in my side still gnawing away,
As though to add their quota to the evils I
have already mentioned, my throat was
parched and dry, and constipation was
another trouble. A feeling of drowsiness
never left me, and, combined with my
general weakness, I appeared like a man
half dead. The prospect of getting through
a day’s work in this condition was nob a
very bright one, and many a time I had to
come home unable to continue my work. I
really thought I was done for.”
“ What gave you that impression ? ”
“ Because my doctor could not cure me.
I then came to New South Wales, and en-
gaged another doctor, under whose care I
remained with the same unsatisfactory re-
sults till my hopes were exhausted. The
medicines prescribed by both doctors were
utterly useless in every respect.”
“ Did you consult a third doctor ? ”
“No ; I managed without. One of my
mates, who had suffered as I was suffering,
told me he was cured by Clements Tonic,
even when his medical adviser had failed.
That hint was good enough for me. I
bought some Clements Tonic, and when I
had taken three bottles I felt quite a
different man. My pains in the side were
much easier, and all the other ailments had
been quite cured. Appetite, sleep, and
strength returned in a short time, and de-
spondency gave way to cheerfulness. Three
more bottles of Clements Tonic cured me in
every detail, and I have not been troubled
with my old sickness since, and I give you
my authority to publish these remarks
simply out of gratitude, for I trust a relation
of my sufferings and cure may help other
poor sufferers on the way to recovery/’
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I,.Francis Davison, of 27 Wyndham-street, Alex-
andria, in the State of New South'Vales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely de-
clare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of three folios, and con-
secutively numbered from one to three, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish in any way my state-
ments—which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
Ing any payment; and I make this solemn declara-
tion conscientiously believing the same to be true,
and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act,
1900.
Subscribed and declared at Alexandria, this fourth
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two,
before me,
W. B. CARTER, J.P.
m
n
m
m
m
*
*
///
II
i’JX
6
'<*
Darkroom
•M
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
jy**.
V By FRANK RENAR. \f
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
FOR TUB: Bt3rSH WdHKEIT
am-'Hfz/c
isiAWimg
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore feet, Piles all
forms of Shin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A h REE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTICE TO M®r,BOURNa} VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st,, South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS. ■^.CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
Belected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING F1.00R3
of various sizes supplied.
~”IPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S _
SHREDDED WHEAT.
THIS CTJIT,
The dainty, eleetric-baked substitute for bread, toast,
biscuits. For use with butter, &c., at every meal. Put
in hot oven to crisp before using.
Use also Shredded Wheat Biscuit with milk or
fruit, instead of porridge, pudding, or pastry.
All grocers. Sole Agent—
J. HENDERSON, 117 Collins Street, Helbourne.
ZferfxtiUet lights
TRY U **
&he
sf&esL
FOOD
Refuse a// Z/n/foPons
Satisfying, Strengthening. Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
AGfflrS POP SYD/ffY:
SAYPPS ALLPOPP 6c POTTER
»
RIDCE'S FOOD MILLS. LONDON. End.
DEBILITATED
1/I7EAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
VV trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE CIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
PIOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
TTfS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
The representative book of Australian humor —
STEELE RUDD’S
“on Our Selection.”
Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
FOR
Indigestion, Biliousness and
Acidity.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS IN
OLD AND YOUNG-.
BONANZA PACKET BEERS
Brew Your Own Beer!
Ordinary Household Utensils.
Non-Intoxicating'. No Salicylic. Pure Hops, Herbs*
and Fruit Extracts.
No Trouble. No Yeast Required.
Bonanza Beers make their own Gas.
Ginger, Kola, Hop, Bitter and Table Beer, Dandelion,
Ale, Lemonade, Shandygaff, Giderade, Stout.
All stores and grocers. 1, 2 and 5 gal. packets, 6d., Is.,
25., or direct by pest to an}' State, Bd., Is. 3d., 2s. 3d.
Draught Ciderade, without gas, made with cold
water, and ready for use in one hour.
SPEClAL.—Bonanza Sarsaparilla is the best
blood-purifier in the world, and contains the genuine
Jamaica Root. In I and 2 gal. packets, Is. and 2s.
T. DOEGAN & SON,
143 Brunswick Street, Filzroy, Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
Til Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to 10st'. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
. Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust ; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use.—Throw the Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
1 II
to house
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained severa
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply C: rbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOT3CE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and ail pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinqdkstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdicstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonics.


J
BRANDT.
The Standard
of Purity
throughout
the World.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
Legal Notice.
"PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division of
the High Court of Justice inade on the 10th day of
August 1903 “In the Matter of the Estate of Caroline
Hicks deceased” and in an Action between Elizabeth Isabel
Hicks (Spinster) Plaintiff and Alice Noakes Dengate
(Married Woman) Defendant 1903 H. 2190 the following
Inquiry was (inter alia) directed namely (1) “ An Inquiry
who were the PERSONS ENTITLED by virtue of or
according to the Statute of Distribution to the ESTATE
of CAROLINE HICKS the Intestate in the Originating
Summons mentioned living at the time of her death and
whether any of them are since dead and if so who are
their respective legal personal representatives.” The
said Caroline Hicks resided at the time of her death
which happened on or about the Ist day of May 1898 at
No. 32 Park Road St. Leonards on Sea in the County of
Sussex and was one of the daughters of Richard Hicks
and Philadelphia his wife formerly Philadelphia
Richardson.
Now all persons claiming under such Inquiry (1) are by
their Solicitors on or before the 10th day of March 1904
to come in and prove their claims at the Chambers of
Mr. Justice Farwell and Mr. Justice Swinfen Eady at the
Royal Courts of Justice Strand London or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from the
benefit of the said Order.
Tuesday the 15th day of March 1904 at one o’clock in
the afternoon at the said Chambers is appointed for
hearing and adjudicating upon the said claims.
Dated this 18th day of November 1903.
E. W. WALKER Master.
Kingsford Dorman & Co. 23 Essex-street, Strand,
London, W.C., Agents for Phillips & Cheesman Hastings,
Plaintiff’s Solicitor.
(I)
The great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure
due to the two following important facts:—
Their similarity in composition to human milk; the constituents being in (2) The readiness with which they can oe digested and assimilated by
the same relative proportions. _ _ _ the infant,both foods being as easy of assimilation as maternal milk, «
Mixed with water according to the directions a humanized milk is provided. and much more so than ordinary modified or diluted cow's milk.
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are in the
form of powder and tecp perfectly. fy
Allen & Hanburys, Ltd., fPlougß Qourt, dsombard St., isondon.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six mounts.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
, . From 6lx months and upwards.
No Cigarette in the World deserves better of the Public than
“CAMEOS'.'
They never vary from year to year—a hairsbreadth in QUA LITE, FLA VO TJR or
PERFECT MANUFACTURE.
TEST MATCH.
RUBEROID
VERSUS
For Economy, Comfort Neatness*
ALL
COMERS.
FOR SALE AT ALL STORES.
AGENTS:
J. M. FERGUSON, Ltd.,
Fremantle, W.A.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO.,
Adelaide, S.A.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO.,
Melbourne, Vic.
HEDLEY BUTTON,
Launceston. Tas,
JAMES W. JACK,
Wellington, N.Z.
E.
OH & GO., Ltd.
Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 25.—N0. 1247.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 1904,
Price 6d.
A LONESOME CONSPIRACY
■Tohn Haynes held a meeting the other night to organise a secession movement,
THE ORIGIN OF A FTN E OLD LEGEND
Local Fat Man : “ Look here, T suppose I may
safely say that in our present terrible state of
Socialistic legislation you wouldn’t dream of in-
vesting £lOO,OOO in establishing ironworks in Australia < "
Tub Wreck ( firmly): “J wouldn’t!"
Local Fat Man ; “That is positive proof of the evils of our present disastrous
policy. T will write to the papers at once.’’
COALITION OR
Premier Deakin has the choice of either o' the above attitudes towards
the Labor party. Which -hall it be 1
AUSTRALIAN POLITICS OF THE MOMENT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the AustmliansJ’
Printed and Published by William 'Magi, rod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty -
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, ,or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But tve
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
' are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in ItlacJc and IVhite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
• — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and, Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.—Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Breiver and Co.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 1904.
A Whole Hog Party.
Labor dictation means very little if theie is no loan
money available, and apart from small local contributions,
that is the position to-day.— Sydney Telegraph (28/12/’O3).
In the case of the advent to power in the Common-
wealth or States of the Labor party, the consequences to
the communities would not be entirely without advan-
tage. This phase of the question is being discussed by
Labor leaders, as an article elsewhere in this issue
demonstrates. It would be the signal for the closing of
the London money markets and of the local markets also ;
for capitalists in Australia as well as in London would
refuse to lend money to those they distrust. That would
certainly give some compensations, for extravagance
would have to be confined to the expenditure of the con-
solidated revenue. Necessary public works that would
have to he constructed would remain in abeyance in the
unlikely event of a Labor party in office.— S.M. Herald
(28112/' 03).
The Labor party appears to think that the time may
come when they will succeed to office—a perfectly legiti-
mate aspiration. If they do, they can only govern with
the consent of the majority of the electors, and my
deliberate conviction is that the electors of New South
Wales will never commit their destinies to a so-called
Labor party, which I designate the Socialistic party.
They talk of putting an end to future borrowing. If, by
some stroke of good or ill fortune, the Labor party came
into power with such a policy of putting an end to public
borrowing, they would speedily put an end to them-
selves. At the same time, I want to guard myself by
saying that I am not at all in favor of unduly borrowing.
—Opposition member and ex-Minister Hogue, in Sydney
Telegraph (29/12/’O3).
If the Labor party choose to drop the solidarity vote,
and come down with a simple democratic programme
embracing the stoppage of loans and living within an
income, they would gain an accession of strength, which
in the Parliament after the next, if not in that, would
probably enable them to take office.— Ferguson, ALL.A.
of N.S. IF., in Sydney Telegraph (29/12/’O3).
Then came Mr. Dacey. He told them something
interesting. The Labor party was against reduction of
members, but, as it was the will of the country, they
would bow to it. That will be worth remembering.
The member for Botany said he would preach a crusade
against borrowing, and, if Joseph got into Egypt, there
should be no more borrowing.— Sydney Telegraph
(29/12/'O3).
“ Well,” answered the same spokesman, “ we will stop
all borrowing of money unless for works which will be
absolutely reproductive.”
“That is what Mr. Carruthers says he will do,” was
the answer of the journalist.
“No; Mr. Carruthers has stated that he is in
favor of continuing to borrow money, and that the
c uintry cannot get along without borrowed capital; hut
our party say no. We assert that the time has come
when the State ought to pay for the maintenance of all
public works out of ordinary revenue, and only spend
borrowed money for the paying back of loans which may
have matured and for the carrying out of reproductive
works .’’—Sydney Telegraph’s interview with a Labor
member, name not given (29/12/’O3).
The above are a few straws (two days’ supply of
straws) which sjiow how the wind is blowing.
* •, . * * *
Australia has never been great on party names.
Most of its parties have called themselves
“Liberal” or “National ” or “Reform,” or some-
thing of the sort; one of them called itself the
“Great Liberal” party. The Labor party has
about the brightest and most original name
in Australian history, but even that isn’t
wildly unusual. This country never did any-
thing in party nomenclature to compare with the
Hooks and the Cods of Holland, or the Hats and
Caps of Sweden ; and when the Boers subdivided
into the Hands-uppers (who surrendered early) and
the Bitter-enders (who saw the war out to the last),
they showed a capacity for sizing up the situation
in two words, which is rare in Australia. There
isn’t necessarily much in a name, hut sometimes it
goes far, and becomes a national power and a
valuable battle-cry. Just now, any political leader
of the requisite size who founded a Whole Hog
Party would have a future before him in N.S.W.
—provided he lived up to the name; and a red
banner, with a complete white hog on it, hung out
wherever the party candidate addressed the .
public, would he a power in the land—provided
the party lived up to its hog and its doctrines,
and was worthy of its banner. For N.S.W. is
weary—very, very weary—of living in a muddy
backwater of politics. It is tired of being a
lagoon. It is sick of Reformers who don’t reform
and economists who don’t economise; it is even
growing weary of Freetraders who never practise
'reetrade. Nothing big enough to rouse a thrill
has happened in N.S.W, State politics since the
foundation of the Commonwealth ; everything is
the faded hue of an old maid’s back hair. Plat-
forms nowadays are mostly platitudes, and old
ones at that —the “restoration of Responsible
Government,” “judicious economy combined with
a due regard to the necessity for developing the
great natural resources of the country,” “ a well-
considered policy of progress based on a full
appreciation of the importance of preserving the
fundamental principles of the constitution ” and
maunderings of the sort. There never was a
time in N.S.W. when a Whole Hog Party had
better prospects of success.
• • • •
Such a party needs to get the biggest idea avail-
able and seize it with both hands. It wants its
central principle to be one that can’t be ignored—
one that will make everybody either wildly enthusi-
astic or wildly angry—and must pledge itself to
that principle so completely that there is no going
back. A party which pledged itself to abolish
all borrowing, except for the renewal of exist-
ing loans, and to find, say, £1,750,000 or £2,000,000
a year out of revenue for public works, and
£250,000 a year out of revenue for the repayment
of old loans, would take possession of the
biggest idea that is available now in Australia—
and if it put its whole soul into that idea it would
win almost to a certainty. If it fully believed in
its own creed it could make a vastly greater sen-
sation in N.S.W. than Joseph Chamberlain did
in Britain when he preached Protection to a com-
munity which had been brought up to regard the
importing disease as a sort of god. Britain was
half-weary of Freetrade, but it didn’t know it till
the right man seized its ear with both hands and
told it of the fact. N.S.W. is a great deal more
tired of borrowing, but it may not realise the fact
for many years yet unless the right party takes it
by the ear and explains things in a voice too loud
to be mistaken. The people want a change from
the grey monotony of things. The great vote
which they gave the other day for a
reduction of the Assembly showed their
weariness of the old purposeless drift, and
the great vote they probably would have given, if
they had been allowed, for the complete oblitera-
tion of the Upper House, would have further
revealed the same state of mind. A Whole
Hog Party, which invited them to join in the
deadly earnest pursuit of some principle big
enough to attract everybody’s attention, would
call up the corpse of cornstalk politics from its
grave.
* • * *
Nobody expects much in this matter from John
See, whose incapacity for coming in out of the
wet amounts to a whole umbrella factory. Nor
does anybody expect much from the Carruthers
Sarty, which is to the See party what the moral
TIGGINS, with a red nose on his countenance and
a bottle in his tail-pocket, is to the cheerful rake.
The Carruthers party has all the platitudinous
respectability of a Baptist family struggling with
a cold dinner on Sunday. Both these parties
talk vaguely about “economy” and the
“development of the great natural resources
of the country ” and the “maintenance of sound
constitutional principles,” and all the other
bangs and noises that have resembled iron-
mongery falling eloquently down stairs any
time these last 20 years. But all these things
mean nothing in particular, and unless the
Labor party is prepared to take a new depar-
ture, to cut loose from the old, dull, mean-
ingless buzzings of the other two factions, and
to dare to have a big new idea, the next election
will be a mere drab pottering of political ghosts
without any striking principle or purpose among
them. Some of the more advanced of the Labor
members already incline to the idea of being
the Whole Hog Party at next election. And
already Joey Carruthers’ lieutenant, the dull
Jimmy Hogue, of the whole Hogue party, is
alarmed at the new development, and warns the
Labor members that they will commit suicide if
they leave off borrowing. This anxiety on the
part of Jimmy Hogue, of the whole Hogue party,
to prevent his opponents committing suicide is
pathetic in its generosity. Also, the pitiable
S.M. Herald lays it down that Australians are
such poor, wretched, cowardly creatures that they
can never pay for their own public works, and
can never have any public works if the supply of
loans comes to an end. It is worth while being
a Whole Hog Party in order to demolish that
doctrine of cowardice and drivel.
* * * *
The time is in sight when something must be
done —when it is necessary to choose between
being the strong man who seizes the opportunity
and gets there with dignity, or the weak man who
is dragged along in the dust by the force of cir-
cumstances and gets there without any dignity.
Soon the supply of loans threatens to stop; on
present appearances there is a choice between being
the masterful individual who swears off the drink,
or the feeble-minded man who has his supply of
liquor stopped and is taken away by two policemen
to an inebriate asylum. When the supply of loans
stops, then the Government of the day must
choose between abandoning all public works and
improvements and settling down into utter stagna-
tion, or handing all new works over to the cormo-
rant of Private Enterprise, or else finding the
money out of revenue. If some party doesn’t
seize the opportunity and the credit, a time will
come when it will have to tackle the hard work
and the responsibility without the credit. The
Democratic and Progressive party is more deeply
interested in this matter than any other. It is
more deeply pledged to State Enterprise than any
other party. And it seems to be certain that a
feeling has sprung up in England against granting
any further loans while the State Enterprise party
is on deck, therefore it, above all others, must learn
to do without Joans. It begins to dawn on Cohen
that while he wants to own our railways on
lavish land-grant principles, and to possess our
tramways and telegraphs and docks, it is sheer
foolishness to provide money so that the State
may own them—even nominally own them.
Tiie great extension of municipal enterprise
in England seems to be the chief cause
of this. During the last few years the English
municipalities have been borrowing large sums at
3 or 3J per cent, with which to construct or
acquire tramways, water and gas works, and
many other undertakings out of which the private
Cohen used to make 7 per cent. There is a dis-
inclination now on Cohen’s part to find the money
for any more Public Enterprise that involves him
in a loss of 3J per cent., so Public Enterprise
must either learn to do without Cohen— which is
quite possible; or acknowledge itself a failure—
which would be an unspeakable disgrace and
disaster.
• • * *
There is nothing to he gained at such a time as
this by vague promises of “economy,” or by
undertaking to borrow only for reproductive
works. The country is sick of the ill-used word
“economy,” and the other promise means next to
nothing—it only signifies, in many cases, having
£35,000 a year interest to pay on a reproductive
work which only produces £lOOO a year. Even
the Northern Territory railway is a reproductive
work—it reproduces enough to pay about half
the working expenses and none of the interest.
If an enterprise pays only 1 per cent, it isn’t re-
productive enough to justify borrowing ; if it pays
6 per cent., it is so reproductive that a country
which doesn’t put its own money into it and
secure the whole 6 per cent, as an aid to the
revenue is a fool. Moreover, half-measures are
bad policy as well as bad principle. In a time
of utter political stagnation, the Whole Hog
Party is the one that dazzles the public eye It
represents strength and courage, and the public
loves both. If the Labor party carries out
its half-formed idea, and puts this particular
Whole Hog on its banner, and does it in a
way that leaves no room for doubt, it will be the
best-advertised party in Australia. It will be
cursed or blessed at the fullest length in every
paper in Australia, and almost every paper in
England. It will get acres of free advertising.
It will get the loudest applause and the largest
dead cat that the State can produce. But to earn
that applause, advertisement, and cat it will have
to declare emphatically that it will either occupy
the Treasury benches or the Opposition benches,
and not be a half-way institution any longer—that
it is resolved for the future to be the head and
not the tail of any alliance, and that it will
be against every borrowing party all the time.
Then N.S.W. politics will no longer be of the
indefinite color of the old maid’s back hair, and if
the party fails it will, at least, not fail, as it
threatens to do now, by a colorless process of
fading out.
* • • •
There are other things that a Whole Hog Party
can promise with advantage. It should pledge
itself that, if returned to power with a working
majority, it will, in its very first session, intro-
duce a heavy absentee tax, a graduated land-tax,
a Bill establishing the Referendum, and a measure
for the abolition of the Upper House, and that it
will either carry these measures or lose its billet
in the struggle. And it should promise that, if it
doesn’t get into power, it will raise such Cain
as cannot readily be ignored, on behalf
of this programme, in Opposition. As re-
gards all these matters it will, of course,
be taunted with its past neglect and its
past misdeeds, but to that the simple answer is
always ready: “There are three parties in the
House. They all sinned equally. We have re-
pented, and the other two haven’t.” There will
he gibes, no doubt, about the returned prodigal
and the fatted calf, but, after all, the prodigal
who returned got the calf, and the one who stayed
away didn’t. The calf, as an asset, is not to be
despised, but it is an asset that needs to he pur-
sued earnestly. If the N.S.W. Labor men decide
to he the Whole Hog Party they should not only
send out their own speakers throughout the length
and breadth of the land, but, while the Australian
Parliament is in recess, they should borrow from
the Federal Labor party every man with any
.oratorical gifts, no matter what State he
represents, who can be pressed into the
service, and thus carry the Whole Hog
gospel into every corner of the State. They
must contest every electorate where there
is not already a strong candidate who is
willing to accept the Whole Hog idea. With a
fighting platform embodying the immediate and
total abolition of borrowing except for renewal
purposes, establishment of a public works fund
and a sinking fund out of re,venue, graduated
land-tax, absentee-tax, the Referendum and extinc-
tion of the Upper House, the party would almost
certainly win, or if it dia not win it would come
hack so much stronger that it would have every
prospect of winning at an early date. And either
way it would so completely shake up the mouldy
stagnation of N.S.W. politics that they wouldn’t
fully grope their way back to their old tomb for a
quarter of a century.
• • • •
If the N.S.W. Labor party doesn’t adopt this
idea it has always to consider the possibility that
a leader may arise (improbable as it seems) who
will seize the opportunity on behalf of some other
party. That will be bad for Labor. And if no
party moves in the matter the approaching
election promises to be a petty little scuffle of
persons of no importance, in which, from sheer
lack of any big principle, the most violent and un-
reliable daily paper will carry the day.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Defunct Fiscal Issue.
Sydney Worker lately published an interesting
yarn on the fiscal question, from which the fol-
lowing is an extract:
We do not pretend to sink the fiscal issue. We say
that it is not alive, and that it cannot be sunk because it
is dead and buried, and that when The Bulletin and the
Daily Telegraph attempt to galvanise Protection and
Freetrade into life they are political body-snatchers who
disturb the peace of the dead and mouldering.
The Bulletin doesn’t want to quarrel with any-
body, so let it be assumed that the fiscal issue is
dead, as the Worker says. And then—to get
back to business—which side of the corpse is the
Federal Labor party going to be on when it takes
office, as it must do some day, and probably on an
early day ? Is it going (with perfect indifference)
to raise revenue by duties that, incidentally, assist
local industries at the same time—which is Pro-
tection, even if it is very moderate Protection ?
Or is it going (without taking any interest
in the matter) to raise revenue principally,
or partly, by duties that won’t assist any
local industry, which is revenue-tariffism wku the
essential feature of Freetrade that it doesn’t give
any preference to the Australian worker ? Or
does it purpose (without regarding the matter as
of the least importance) to depend on direct taxa-
tion, and have no customs revenue, which is
absolute Freetrade ? And, if it doesn’t know,
when is it likely to know ? If there is any way
by which the Federal Labor party can go into
office, and not take the alleged dead body of the
fiscal issue with it, that way has not yet appeared.
The party may not care a straw about any fiscal
device, but which of the fiscal devices that it
doesn’t care a straw about is it going to adopt
when the time comes ? It must adopt some fiscal
policy, however dead the Worker may hold
them all to be ; one corpse or another is needed for
revenue-producing purposes. The party may
be equally ready to take any one of
the three, but that doesn’t in the least
alter the fact that it must take one,
and people have a right to ask which one. If it
could hold office without having a fiscal policy,
then it might reasonably say that the question
was dead ; as it can’t do that, it should be as easy
for it to state its fiscal policy before getting into
power as after. Does the party’s alleged com-
plete disregard of the allegedly dead fiscal issue
mean that it will leave undisturbed whatever
tariff it finds in operation when it takes office ?
Or will it go in for Freetrade while remarking
that it would just as soon have Protection ? Or
will it adopt high or medium or low Protection
when it doesn’t care a straw if it has Freetrade?
Or will it try Revenue Tariffism, while not caring
2d. whether it has that orsomething else? Whether
the country gets Protection or Revenue Tariffism
or Freetrade from a Government which believes
the thing is alive, or from one which believes it is
dead, makes little difference to the country—it
still naturally wants to know which it will get. The
country would address just the same kind of ques-
tion to a party which said the White Australia
question was dead. That party might be comp’etely
indifferent—it might shut out niggers while not
caring if they came in, or let in niggers while not
caring if they were shut out —but it must do one
thing or the other, and people who have definite
views about niggers would want to know which
thing it would do. If it was so indifferent that it
didn’t know, there would be a tendency on the part
of all the people who had definite opinions to keep
it out of office till it did know.
The Carious Situation of the Northern
Territory.
It is a common saying that Queensland has, in
proportion to population, the Biggest Debt on
E irth, and while S. Australia and the Northern
Territory are regarded as one State, as they
usually are, the saying is quite correct. But
though the Territory is governed from Adelaide,
and represented in the S.A. Parliament, and is
lumped in with S.A. as a State of the Common-
wealth, it is really a separate institution. It was
once a bit of British soil administered by S.A. ;
now, until the Australian Government takes it
over as a Federal property, it is a bit of soil
belonging to nobody in particular, administered
by S.A. This produces curious results. The debt
of the Territory is now something like £750 per
inhabitant (white or Chinese—the aboriginal
isn’t worth counting in this connection). The
revenue is about £50,000 a year and the
expenditure about £170,000. The difference is
added each year to the public debt. The Terri-
tory, being frankly bankrupt, can’t borrow itself,
so S.A. borrows for it. S.A. holds that it doesn’t
matter if it borrows £120,000 or so annually under
this heading to pay interest on old debts (the
whole of the interest on the Territory’s debt is
paid out of borrowed money) because, as it says,
the Territory is responsible to it for the money.
It doesn’t reckon this sort of thing as borrowing
for purely revenue purposes, because it isn’t S.A.’s
own borrowing, but the Territory’s borrowing.
Yet as the Territory, on present appearances,
can’t possibly pay up, S.A. might as well debit
the amount to its dog, and put the dog’s I O U
into the Treasury as security. Taking S.A.
and the Territory together, there is a huge
deficit every year, but no attempt, is ever
made now to remedy a large part of that deficit—
it is supposed to be fully covered when S.A., as
guardian of the Territory, writes out the Terri-
tory’s hopeless lOU for the amount, and puts it
in the S.A. Treasury. Then S.A. gives its own
lOU to Bull (who wouldn’t take the Territory’s
lOU as a pipe-light) and the thing is done. Of
course, if S.A. paid the Territory's deficit out of
its own revenue it would be quite right in taking
the Territory’s lOU for the money; it might
The Blind, Obedient Bead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A curious memorial of the Boer war is recorded from
Surrey At Burstaw, in that county, a drinking trough
and fountain have been erected by a local personage in
memory of four hundred thous ind horses killed and
wounded during the South African war, from 1899 to
1902, “in t cause of which they knew nothing.”— Daily
paper
Their bones lie glistening on the veldt, their
shoes are rusted red,
They are gone where spur and rifle are at rest.
Good dreams to all that legion of the blind,
obedient dead !
Good pasture in their islands of the blest 1
Knowing nothing of the combat, recking nothing
if they won
When the echoes of the last shot died away ;
They are dreaming of the far-off bush and creeks
and shade and sun,
And the gallops at the breaking of the day.
Did they wonder at the trumpet call that urged
them to the onset,
And the harder, tenser hand upon the rein,
Than the hand that held them steady for the
station roofs at sunset,
Or the girl across a dozen miles of plain ?
When the purple dusk grows deeper, and the
Four White Stars look down,
And an eastern wind blows oversea from home;
To their white bones, shining silver, from the
bush and from the town,
Does a sigh of dear remembrance never come ?
When the mob breaks through the timber, do the
stockmen never sigh ?
Do their hearts in idle pipe-dreams never yearn
For our horses in their long sleep where we sent
them out to die,
To an exile past retrieval and return
The girls who tingled, waiting at the sliprails,
quick to hear
The ring of hoofs at moonrise through the trees—
Will they waken for a moment from their love-
sleep, with a tear
For the silent hoofs at rest across the seas?
Their bones are glistening on the veldt, their shoes
, are rusted red,
They are gone where spur and rifle are at rest.
Good dreams to all that legion of the blind
obedient dead !
Good pasture in their islands of the blest!
M.L.
M. CORDAC.


one day sell the Territory to the Commonwealth
t V tt nment or enou Kh to pay at least part of the
IO U. But to profess to regard the lOU of a
place which owes £750 per inhabitant as worth
A)s. in the £ is sheer drivel, and to borrow 20s. in
the £ from Bull or anybody else on the strength
of it is the maddest financing that even Australia
lias seen. By a curious process of reasoning one-
sixth of Australia is supposed to be a lunatic that
isn t responsible for its debts or called upon to
make ends meet. S.A. has already accumulated
a debt equal to nearly £3 per head of its popula-
tion merely for the purpose of meeting interest on
the Territory’s debts ; so under this heading alone
S.A. has heaped up a wholly unproductive liability
that is as large as the whole debt of many respec-
table countries. Yet because the Territory’s God-
forsaken promissory note —which is, under present
circumstances, about as good as the promissory
note of Sahara—is at the back of this debt, it
isn’t regarded as an ordinary spendthrift process
of borrowing for revenue purposes. It is wonder-
ful how much comfort the worst kind of promis-
sory note can bring to Australian financiers.
» .
The Cornstalk Insurrection.
Last week John Haynes, M.L,A., held an
obscure little meeting in a murky little Sydney
hall, to promote the secession of N.S.W. from the
Australian Commonwealth and rend the Constitu-
tion into pipe-lights. Nobody of importance was
there and hardly anybody of no importance. One
or two very much forgotten back-numbers smote
the table considerably, and said that N.S.W. was
a blighted spot, and wasn’t properly treated, and
proposed to tear up the Commonwealth and hang
the flag of revolt out to dry. It was a mildly
bathetic proceeding all through. The alleged
grievances, when they could be seen through a
driving rain of adjectives and a flying herd of
verbs, appeared to be that the landing of Six
Hatters had been delayed a little owing to
the operation of a ’law which the bulk of
the N.S.W. representatives had cordially
approved when it was passed. Also that
an Education test was applied to immigrants
under a system which existed in N.S.W. before
the Commonwealth adopted it. Likewise that
the Federal capital wasn’t fixed by the very first
Australian Parliament —principally because some
of the N S.W. members differed violently from
the rest of Australia ; and that a N.S.W. minority
couldn’t over-rule an Australian majority in the
matter of the tariff. In addition to these things
it seems that the Commonwealth supplies N.S.W-
with too much revenue, and N.S.W. spends it
badly. Also the N.S.W. State Government
received from the Commonwealth the money
collected as fodder duties during the drought
season, and refused to refund it to the “ perishing
farmers,” which is apparently held to be a grievance
against the Commonwealth Government. About
these things the obscure meeting was violently
apostrophised in its murky little hall, and John
Haynes plugged the furniture with great violence,
and called on those present to throw off the yoke and
sell it to a marine store. It was a painful example
of wasted perspiration on a hot night. The stout
little orator threw himself wildly up into the
atmosphere that once was free but is now enslaved
by A. Deakin, and spoke wild, indefinite language
about “degradation and insult,” and said vaguely
that N.S.W. had had a brick thrown at its
tenderest feelings, and had been subjected to the
egg of scorn arid the vegetable of contumely. He
also staked his life on the success of the movement
for breaking up the union, so his tombstone may
be considered as good as ordered, and the clods
can already be heard falling on his coffin. The
show had less vitality in it than a gathering of
stamp collectors or a meeting to discuss an obscure
comma in Shakspeare. But it appointed an
excited treasurer to take care of the tuppence, and
a violent secretary to address the postcard, and
about half the audience refused to vote, and some-
one told the boss of the movement not to be
ridiculous, and then the insurrection went away
to have beer.
♦
The Bills for Resumed Properties.
The Queensland Government, it was mentioned
last week, had sent in its claim for properties
taken over by the Australian Government, the
amount demanded being something near
£2,400,000. The N.S.W. claim for £4,000,000 or
so is also said to be ready, and any claims that are
still outstanding will probably arrive very soon.
Treasurer Turner, as an economical man, will
probably feel an inclination to argue about these
claims, which are said to be rather lavish, but it
is to be hoped that, for once, he will suppress his
economical instincts and just pay up. Payment
is to be made in every case by taking over State
debt to the amount of the claims. It is essential
that the State debts should be taken over
by the Commonwealth—as much of them
as possible, and as soon as possible. If
£20,000,000 of State debt is assumed by
the Commonwealth in payment for properties
which are really only worth £10,000,000
or £5,000,000, it is just the same to Australia as if
£20,000,000 of State debt was taken oyer by the
Commonwealth in return for no properties at all,
but merely as part of a general scheme of debt
consolidation. Whether the debt is called a State
debt or Federal debt, the same Australian people
owe the money, and have to pay the interest.
Probably all the States will seek to shamefully
overcharge the Commonwealth for the transferred
properties, but that only means that the Aus-
tralian people, in their State capacity, will seek to
overcharge themselves in their Federal capacity.
There will be the same old debt, only more of
it will be Federal debt and less will be
State debt, instead of things being the other way
about. But the advantage of liberality on the
part of the Australian Government lies in the
fact that it will probably make an effort to pay
off the debt, while the States almost certainly
won’t; therefore the more debt that is transferred,
whether in payment for transferred properties or
on general principles, the better. Moreover, the
occasion is one whereby the Australian Govern-
ment can earn a good deal of cheap popularity.
In making up their bills for transferred properties
the States seem as anxious to overcharge the
Commonwealth as if they were overcharging, not
themselves, but a complete stranger. If they
can extract any satisfaction out of overcharging
themselves it would be well to let them have the
satisfaction. To create friction by cutting down
the bills, when that process would be merely the
Australian people in their Federal capacity
refusing to be overcharged by themselves in their
State capacity, would be a most superfluous
proceeding. The people would lose nothing by
having their bills for resumed properties cut
down, but probably they would fail to recognise
the fact. When there is an opportunity to be
frankly generous to the people at their own
expense, and without in any way increasing the
country’s debt or its interest charge, it is good
policy to be frankly generous.
A Mild Little Sinking Fund.
Mr. Holman, the N.S.W. Labor member with
the great wash of eloquence, was interviewed last
week by Sydney Telegraph, and poured himself
forth at some length. He probably was less dis-
astrous than he might have been, but he certainly
was disastrous enough. For instance, this was
Holman on the largest and most urgent question
of the day:—
As to the policy of no borrowing, that is pleasant to
talk about, but at present hardly to be considered. Our
revenue does not meet our present large expenditure
without burdening it with public works. The points
upon which we shall insist will be to establish a large
sinking fund, and to go in for no borrowing without an
adequate sinking fund. The policy of the Labor party
will be, I think, to borrow for works so reproductive that
they will pay interest, and provide for a sinking fund, or
to insist, if they cUn’t do so, that extra revenue shall be
levied by means or in additional tax to provide a sinking
fund. This suggestion has not been before the party yet,
but I believe it will be adopted when the sub-committee’s
proposals come up for discussion.
Holman, plainly, isn’t the man N.S.W. is looking
for. It doesn’t want any man who sits down and
moans that, because the State, despite its recent
enormous increase of revenue, fails to meet the
ordinary expenses of Government, therefore the
idea of making the revenue cover public works
expenditure also is only a dream. Anybody can
moan. What is required is the man who will
make the revenue cover the ordinary expenditure
and the public works expenditure also, and pro-
vide a sinking fund into the bargain. Reckoning
the State’s extra revenue and the expenditure of
which the Australian Government has relieved it,
N.S.W. has, even after paying old age pensions,
£1,700,000 a year more cash to spend than it had
two or three years ago. The fact that all
that money is spent, with nothing special
to show for it, isn’t a sufficient explana-
tion, though Mr. Holman seems to think it
is. The people didn’t elect legislators merely
to remark helplessly that the blessed money
has disappeared. A further sample of helpless-
ness is the suggestion that the State should just
go on borrowing, and be content to establish a
sinking fund on future loans —where the works
are unproductive or only slightly productive
the sinking fund to be provided out of
taxation. If a State went on borrowing
£2,000,000 a year, and paid £500,000 a year
into a sinking fund (to accumulate at 3J per
cent.), the result, in another 50 years, would be
that the N.S.W. public debt would be about
£35,000,000 more than it is now. It would be 38
years before the debt began to diminish. That is
saying nothing of the fact that the payment to the
sinking fund would probably be a great deal less
than £500,000 a year, and that while borrowing
continues, and the interest bill grows larger and
more distressing, there is always the danger—
almost the certainty—of the sinking fund being
seized and used as revenue. While the borrowing
habit lasts the sinking fund itself is always
borrowed sooner or later. Just now N.S.W.
borrows, in an ordinary year like 1901, about
£1,300,000 for reproductive works—works which
pay at least part of the interest bill attached to
them, however small that part may be —and about
£BOO,OOO for wholly unproductive works ; i.e.,
for purely revenue purposes. If it continues
this process but pays £500,000 a year to a sinking
fund, it will still be borrowing all the money for
its reproductive works—no matter how little
reproductive they may be, about £300,000 a year
for revenue purposes, and also borrowing all
the money that is put into the sinking fund.
At that rate it would be nearly 16 years before
the annual payment into the sinking fund
and the interest derived (at 3J per cent.) from, the
accumulated fund (if it hadn’t been stolen) would
equal the amount dishonestly borrowed each year
for revenue purposes alone. The business would
hardly amount to more than a resolve to
begin reforming in a small way 16 years
hence. If Mr. Holman really speaks for
the Labor party in this matter, then the
circumstance is to be regretted. No small,
pottering, half-hearted reform like that will meet
the case. Of course, neither the See party nor
the Carruthers party has suggested even this
much. But then the See party is a corpse, and
the Carruthers party is a cadaver. The Bulle-
tin doesn’t address them, for it is waste of time
to preach to the dead.
Braddon, Pro-Trader and Freetectionist.
The new Australian Parliament will enjoy one
joke which also brightened the path of its pre-
decessor. It will be gladdened by the presence
of Edward Braddon. Braddon is a violent
Freetrader, and his language about people who
practise Protection is pointed and emphatic. He
is sorry for them —very sorry. He looks down on
them as they struggle round on their low intellec-
tual level, as if he were a metal rooster on a
church steeple. Braddon was for 5J years a
violently Freetrade Premier in Tasmania; and
before him Henry Dobson was a vigorous Free-
trade Premier for nearly two years; and before
Dobson, Fysh was an energetic Freetrade Pre-
mier for oier five years. These three strong
Freetraders maintained a Protective tariff of over
1000 items, and spoke severely about Protection,
Braddon being especially loud on the sub-
ject. Tasmania only required to raise about
£3 10s. per inhabitant annually in State and local
taxes, and Britain, which Braddon says is the
model to be followed and the living proof of the
prosperity which arises from Freetrade, raises
£4 ss. per head without damaging the Freetrade
principle. But Braddon apparently either never
had any faith in his own alleged faith, or else
some foreign enemy hired him to damage,
Tasmania by imposing on it the curse of
Protection—in other words, according to all
the visible evidence, he was either a slimy
humbug, or a traitor, or a person in the last
stage of mental confusion. Braddon still
denounces everybody who doesn’t believe in
Freetrade, but he says that “ as a matter of High
Policy ” the agricultural produce of his own State
must be protected against that of Maoriland.
Therefore it would seem that his own Freetrade
doctrine is Low Policy, or Muddy Policy, or
something like that. Protection, according to
Braddon, is a false doctrine and leads to poverty,
misery and woe; and he demands this misery for
his own constituents with great violence. He is
quite sure that Freetrade is a blessing of the
grandest description, and anybody who tries to
bless Brad don’s agricultural constituents with it
willfind Braddon standingin the road with an axe.
Braddon will die rather than see his own con-
stituents blessed. Braddon is against bonuses as
a nefarious and insidious form of Protection, but
the vigor of his demand for a bonus for the iron
industry in his own electorate is a striking instance
of vitality in so old a man. All these wild, weird
jokes don’t in the least abate Braddon’s scorn for
the errors of Protection, and the old gentleman
nearly bursts with energy as he denounces the
evils, of the thing that he demands for his own
constituents. Braddon is a bright spot in the
Legislature, and his intentions seem to be quite
honorable apparently he doesn't know any
better.
Dill Macky as a Supporter of Rome.
Two recent election incidents seem to suggest that
the Dill Macky crusade is, after all, more fiscal
than anti-Popery, more of a ’cute dodge on the
part of George Reid and Joseph Carruthers to
prop up a falling cause than the folly of fanatics
honestly believing that the great duty of electors
is to beware of Rome. Against Spence, Labor
and Protectionist candidate for the Darling
at the Federal elections, the Dill-Macky
organisation supported Acton, who happens
to be a Roman Catholic; and for the Armidale
by-election (State Parliament) the organisation
supported Kearney, the Carruthers candidate,
who is also a Roman Catholic. Of course, the
question of a man’s religion has ordinarily nothing
to do with politics—though when The Bulletin
goes into politics it intends to be the Selected
Eire-worshipper and the hope and trust of the
Amalgamated Buddhists’ Defence Association.
But since the Dill Macky crowd says that
there should be no issue in politics but that
of Protestantism, and that the pressing pro-
blem of the hour is to confound the knavish
tricks and horrid plots of the Papists, it is
mightily curious that it should run under its
banner almost any Roman Catholic who is in
favor of suppressing Australian industries for the
benefit of the importer. The fact makes it more
plain than ever that .the P.D.A. is not really
built on the beautiful calves of Dill Macky and
on a sincere and genuine hatred of the Pope, but
that it is a low-down trick of the calico crowd to
stampede the rabbit-brained fanatics of the com-
munity to vote the Foreign-trade ticket, under the
delusion that in doing so they are trampling on
the Scarlet Woman. Dill Macky’s calves are
exhibited in the front window of the P.D.A.
shop; in the back office are George Reid and
William M’Millan.
♦
More Six Hatterism.
One “ Alpha ” recently sent the usual incredible
Tory yarn to Brisbane Courier :
I would like, through your columns, to call attention to
one of the results of the class legislation of laborites. By
last home mail a letter from Scotland tells of four
brothers and two other relatives, with capital amounting
to nearly £30,000, who made up their minds to come to
Queensland, bringing with them their wives and families.
They intended to buy land and engage in mixed farming
and dairying. They were to bring with them three female
servants, all of whom had been for many yeais in their
service, and in whom they could place perfect confidence.
However, on going to the local emigration office to arrange
for their passages to Brisbane, they for the first time
heard of the restrictions on engaged servants, and, on
making further inquiry at the London office, learned of
the six hatters and other equally insane acts, and they
then made up their minds that Queensland was no place
for them. They are now considering Canada or Argentina
as fßeir future homes, and this may be only one of many
similar cases.
Tbe Tory party, when it has nothing better to
do, finds a lot of recreation in inventing somebody
who knows of an alleged letter from somewhere,
stating something to the effect that a family of
162 brothers, with their old and attached retinue
and suite, intended coming to Australia with 6d. or
£275,000 or something, but heard of the admission
of the six hatters, and at once swore off. But this
time the lie looks unusually improbable The six
married relatives with their families who decide
toemigrate in a drove are unusual. Thesix farming
relatives with £5OOO apiece look very unusual —
about as unusual as six affluent cookies back of the
Darling River. The old and attached servants,
to whom they are so much attached that they
won’t part with them on any account, are also
unusual; the average British female servant now-
adays is about as much addicted to staying “ many
years ” in one place as the Australian one. The
fact that these people, who won’t part with the
old and attached female servant, are always
coming to Queensland, and never to any other
State, is another curious circumstance ; this is the
third time Queensland has been blighted in this
way. Perhaps Queensland has a more imaginative
Agent-General than the other States. Yet Agent-
General Tozer doesn’t seem to want popula-
tion ; when an elderly and infirm Queenslander,
stranded in London under very sensational cir-
cumstances, applied to him for a return passage he
was only answered with a brutal jibe that he had
better shipas astoker. And the wildest hmi or of
the whole thing is that, unless these ol I and
attached servants have so little faith in the
old and attached master that they won’t trust
him (or he won’t trust them) without a formal
agreement, there is nothing to prevent the whole
drove of them coming to Australia. Further, the
name and address of the intending settler who
has thrown up Australia in disgust are never
given, and as a rule the name of the person who
knows of him isn’t given either, and the third
party who knows of the anonymous person who
knows of the other anonymous person is generally
as anxious to keep his name dark as the rest. All
these things make the whole business look like an
impudent and blastiferous lie.
♦
That the picturesque yarns of Age and Argus about
the contentment of S.W. Victorian tenant farmers
are merely lies to check land legislation is proved
by recent developments. At Wickliffe Road, in
the heart of tbe rented properties, the tenants
have formed an association for the express purpose
of drawing attention to the unsatisfactory condi-
tions under which they live—or exist, as the
speakers termed it—and to arouse public interest
in tbe matter of compulsory land resumption.
These farmers showed that they were nothing but
the slaves of the land-owning squatters. To live
decent lives, to build comfortable homes, to rear
families was simply impossible under the present
system. There is little hope of redress from the
present Government—the Government that made
no attempt to buy the cheaply-sold Moffat
estates —but when that political wreck and ruin
is blotted out, there may be a chance of getting
land on something like fair terms.
-*■
“Monowai”: The beauty of your really honest
Freetrader is that he may always be trusted to
give away his own case. Thus, e.g., Gorst in
North American Review :
The condition of disease, debility, and defective sight
and hearing in the public elementary schools in poorer
districts (i.e., of Britain) is appalling. The research of a
recent Royal Commission has disclosed that, of the
children in the public schools of Edinburgh, 70 per cent,
are suffering from disease of some kind, more than half
from defective vision, nearly half from defective hearing,
and SO per cent, from starvation . . . There are grounds
for at least suspecting a growing degeneracy of the
population of the United Kingdom, particularly in the
great towns.
Exactly. This is how things are alter 50 years of
Freetrade.
+
In 1901 the N.S.W. Parliament passed a law
authorising the State to buy up large properties
for closer settlement. Under that law, according
to a recent Parliamentary paper, 27 estates have
been offered. Of these, also according to the
paper, 12 were declined, two offers were with-
drawn ; one property was sold privately before
the Government nad made up its mind ; five offers
are described as “informal apparently they
were ruled out on that ground; one is described
as “ not dealt with finallythree are “awaiting
deposit towards expenses of investigation ; ” ana
as to the fate of the other three the Parliamentary
paper supplies no information whatever. There
is absolutely no evidence that a single property
was bought, or that the process of closer settle-
ment was really commenced. One of the proper-
ties that were declined was the A. A. Co.’s 420,000
acres at Port Stephens—price 10s. an acre—an
estate which it seems almost certain would
have been acquired it business was really
intended. On the evidence, there is nothing to
show that any serious intention of resuming pro-
perty or promoting closer settlement ever existed.
The law was passed as a concession to the Pro-
gressive party in Parliament. It was something
to whoop about. It enabled Ministers, when
taunted with having done nothing, to say, in
deep, impressive tones, “This is a base slander ;
didn’t we pass the Closer Settlement Act?” But,
to all appearance, N.S.W. would be almost, if not
quite, as well without the Act. Acts aren’t every-
thing ; lazy and incapable administration can
nullify any number of Acts.
-o
A case lately brought under the notice of the
Victorian Board of Health shows to what extent
private enterprise can and does adulterate food
and drink without fear of punishment. An officer
of the Board had obtained from a “ highly respect-
able ” firm of tea and coffee merchants a 21b. tin
of coffee for 2s. 6d. The label stated that the
contents of the tin were freshly blended and
roasted, coffee with a proportion of chicory to
make it palatable. Analysis disclosed the fact
that the mixture was 50 per cent, chicory. The
matter was submitted to the Board’s solicitors,
who advised that it would be hopeless to prose-
cute, inasmuch as the price paid for the mixture
was not that which would have to be paid for
pure, coffee. Like so many of our silly laws, this
one is founded on a clause in the British Health
Act. It is a very silly law, and knocks all the
precautions against adulteration into a cocked hat.
Under it, if you don’t know that the value of a
certain quantity of pure coffee is 2s. 6d., and a
highly respectable man sells you what he swears
is pure coffee for 2s. 5d., and it is really a mixture
of coffee, chicory, brickdust, and the devil, and
is only worth 6d., still you have no redress. And
how many people can carry in their heads all the
time an exact recollection of the lowest price at
which everything can be sold in a pure and un-
adulterated state ?
♦
“ T.H.” : Anglican Bishop Langley, of Bendigo,
seems to be troubled with a very bad attack of
specks before the eyes. During the last month
or so he has got off on his congregation several
remarkable utterances. One had reference to the
second advent of Christ, and set all the rich men
of his congregation wondering whether they had
not better look around for some means of reducing
themselves, so that they might be able to scramble
through the eye of that needle. Since then
Langley got a terrible move on in regard to
Socialism, which he says is
a method that was being adopted by many men, by
which they desired to cause a social revolution through-
out the world, in order that some of the anomalies of life
that God had allowed to exist could be remedied.
Langley’s theory is plainly that the “anomalies
which God has allowed to exist ” should not be
lightly interfered with. Yet his church sends
missionaries to the “heathen” to remove the
religious anomalies which God has allowed, to
exist. And his believers maintain large police-
men to combat the moral anomalies, and make
laws to remedy the criminal anomalies, which
God has allowed to exist; and they make rail-
ways, and dig away God’s lumpy anomalies with
a shovel, and bridge over His hollow anomalies
with a viaduct; and they bring water in pipes
to interfere with His dry anomalies, and make
drains to upset His boggy anomalies. And when
He makes a child with one short leg and a long
one they employ a surgeon to undo His anomaly.
All civilisation consists in remedying theanomalies
which God allows to exist. Langley’s doctrine
of non-interference with anomalies would reduce
the race far below the level of the blaokfellow.
The same story from England— Henry W. Lucy
tells it in his London letter: —
While no effort was spared by employers of labor to
reinstate former employees coming back from the war in
South Africa, considerable difficulty is found by reservists
to obtain situations. The reason given is significant and
regrettable. Employers find that owing to the system
under which he has lived for some years, a discharged
soldier is of but circumscribed value when he returns to
peace avocations. Trained as a machine, without oppcr-
tunity for forming and following judgments of his own,
he sh'ufHes through his day’s work with the main incen-
tive of trying to get someone else to take as large a share
of it as can be shifted from his own shoulders.
On Gov.-Gen. Tennyson’s suggestion, Premier
Deakin has promised to consider the question of
havinganofficialaccountwritten of Australia’s part
in the war. If the Federal Government agrees to
the silly proposal, it is to be hoped that, anyway, it
will include two schedules, one a list of all ex-
cohentingenters who have got into gaol since they
came back; the other a collection of Judges’ re-
marks, so far as they can be got, when these
prisoners were in front of them. While they’re
showing what Australia did for the war, let them
thus also show what the war has done for Aus-
tralia.
♦
“ Alba” on the Asiatic situation: —
Just now Japan is the pet fighting pupil of European
drill and gunnery instructors. They saw with pride how
the Jap chased the Ohow vegetable gardeners from their
mud fortifications a few years ago—they called it the
China war. Later they beheld him under the walls at Tien-
Tsin, where his flanks were buttressed by picked Euro-
pean troops, his sea-way assured by the allied fleet.
There is nothing hysterical or effeminate about the
Russian ; his army is the one in Europe and Asia that
never gets excited. In the days of the Shogun war,
when the Jap was wearing preserved meat tins on his
armor, Russia was in a condition to put a Gehenna
of siege-guns around Plevna and Kars, where she
annihilated regiments of the best and quickest
fighters in the world—the armies commanded by Osman
Pasha and Mukhtar of that ilk. When the Jap meets the
cold, scornful Cossack, who will ride round him all night,
and shoot at him when he is sleepy, and damage his
praying machine and his colored gamp, the London
magazines will arise and apologise for the little brown
man and his simple ways. They will call the Russian
a big, hulking fellow, who feeds on tinned blubber and
axle-grease. They were equally abusive when the white
Cossack walloped the Turk in’77—the brown friend and
ally of Britain. When the Russian people have dealt
with their autocrats—the ermined wolves at St. Peters-
burg—they will stand forth as a kindly and simple nation
full of humanity and love of their kind, for they are the
blood relations of Leo Tolstoi and Ivan Tourganev.
Just now a number of respectable Christian papers are
preparing to stand by the little brown pimp and his gawd
Buddh. But the bear is never affected by newspapers
when he is taking an active interest in chrysanthemums.
*
at was curious, during the passage of the
Victorian Electoral Expenses Act, to find such
Tories as M'Cutchkon in the one Chamber and
Nat Levi in the other posing as ultra-democrats,
and advocating compulsory voting, apparently
in the hope of defeating a measure that would
much hamper their Candidatures. M'Cutcheon


The equitable life assurance society
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOB YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE .. - £265.597.775
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
£19,915,124
ASSETS •• •• - .. £73,855,783
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. .. .. ... .. £4,889,175
SURPLUS •• •• •• •• £15,418,151
INCREASE IN SURPLUS .. .. .; ~ . .. £620,434
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by ... .. £6,565,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman ; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
8. W. D’ARCY IRVIfJE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ” for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. For fuHher particulars> address-
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE-
-70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
NARANDERA
or YOUNG.
Wanted those who neglected to vote to be
merely disfranchised for a space, but Levi was
more drastic, and wanted a £25 penalty imposed
for such neglect of duty. Of course both amend-
ments were rejected, yet M'Cutcheon’s had some
logic behind it. Every voter who can’t show that
he is absolutely unable to vote should be com-
pelled to vote, under penalty of being struck off
the roll. And, in addition, if he disapproves of
all the candidates, he should be allowed to give
a negative vote —to vote against them all, and if
the negative vote is in the majority, then a new
election should be held, at which the old candi-
dates—the ones just ruled out—should not be
allowed to compete. Without the negative vote
it would be possible for a violently Orange
candidate to find himself driven to vote for one of
two Roman Catholics, and it is impossible to say
what effect that might have on his constitution.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Beauty and the Beast."
Her Majesty’s “ Monsieur Beaucaire."
Lyceum “ Great World of London."
Criterion “ Why Woman Sins 1”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Queen’s Hall Mel. B. Spurr.
Palace “ Mama’s New Husband."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s Theatre... “ Twelfth Night.”
Her Majesty’s..,,.... “A Country Girl.”
Theatre Royal “A Desperate Game.”
Bijou . “ Little Red Riding Hood.”
Otera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Hall The Grand Biograph.
♦
“Monsieur Beaucaire” goes pleasantly
on his way at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, wiping the
floor with the British peerage and exposing the
baseness of the gentlemen of England. And just
at this moment England is in alliance with Japan,
and Russia is thinking of throwing the Chrysan-
themum into the middle of the Pacific, and Mon-
sieur Beaucaire’s countrymen are more or less in
alliance with Russia, and some of them have been
dining with a Russian admiral, and waving
the vodka and the bear’s grease round their heads
to celebrate the prospective licking of Britain’s
brown acquaintance. Still, “ Monsieur Beaucaire”
can't be taken seriously enough to amount to an
international complication. International com-
plications are mostly ironclads nowadays, and
cost ±soo,ooo each, and weigh Providence only
knows how many tons, and the gentleman in
beautiful clothes, who dances round with a 2oz.
sword and prods little holes in the British peerage,
is so unlike a modern complication that even if
Britain and France went to war it needn’t neces-
sarily interrupt the run of the Williamson drama.
** * *
The most striking feature of the new
Sydney Tivoli bill is a melodrama in three acts,
or, rather, a condensation in three acts of the
plot of every melodrama on record. Act I. : Prof.
Dewar, the cat-and-dog man, rings for refresh-
ments, and a dog jumps on the table. He chains
the dog up. Virtue, in the shape of a black cat,
lies, unsuspecting the dark future, on a chair.
Act 11. : The prof, is called away for a moment.
Vice wriggles out of its collar, cleans the prof.’s
plate, lifts Virtue on to the table, and wriggles
back into its collar. Innocent Virtue, of
course, gets bumped on the head. Act 111. : The
plate is refilled ; and again the prof, is called
away. The villainy is repeated. But this time
the villain is slower in getting back into his
collar. So Vice is vanquished, and Virtue,
triumphant, gets an extra saucer- of milk. Most
trained-dog performances consist of two or three
animals walking first on one pair of legs and then
on the other pair ; and though Dewar’s dogs do
that, they also do a number of more unusual
things, of which the before-mentioned drama is a
fair sample. Mrs. Sims Reeves, widow of the
English tenor, transforms herself into a human
gramophone, and reproduces as nearly as she can
her late husband’s singing of “My Jane” and
other old favorites, and does it with considerable
success. Probably in a great measure for the
original s, sake, she received a very hearty welcome
on Saturday. Othersinthe bill include the Cirnocs,
Whitburn, James Harvey, and a number of song-
and-dance ladies.
** * *
“Mama’s New Husband'’ continues his
career of frivolity at Sydney Palace, and gives
full houses as good a time as he has himself. The
Bulletin recommended this scrap of American
music-id comedy a week ago, and nothing has since
happened to lead it to withdraw its testimonial.
* *
At Sydney Criterion Charles Holloway
is still turning the Garden of Eden upside down,
and explaining, per Miss Gresham, that Woman
sins because Man tempts her; and the new view
of the situation appeals to almost as large houses
as it did before all Sydney made its new resolu-
tions and decided henceforth to know sin only as
a memory of the past. Last week Hesford, being
a small man. wasn’t seen over the heads of the
crowd that packed the theatre ; this week, his
work as the rich father who has to be killed in the
first act in order to create the essentia] rich
orphan is seen to be well worth mentioning.
Charles Holloway himself, Beatrice Holloway,
Stanford, Miss Gresham, and some others were
mentioned before. Generally, “ Why Woman
Sins ” can be spoken of as a superior melodrama,
and the mounting well worthy of the traditions of
the house of Holloway.
** * *
The average monologue entertainer is a
weary individual who occupies a rather dreary-
looking empty stage and becomes hopelessly hoarse
in one hour’s time. A few minutes later his smile
gives out and becomes merely a wrinkling of the
eyes and a stretching of the mouth, or a ghastly
artificial grin. Mel. B. Spurr, at Sydney Queen’s
Hall, does not belong to this category. He is a
small young man with an unusually intellectual
face, and his stage is got up like a modern
drawing-room in a sub-tropical climate, with
plenty of waving palms. The glow from the red-
shaded lights is inspiriting, and the young man
with the rather clever face moves about as quietly
and easily as though he were in his own den. He
talks in a natural way that impresses each item of
the audience with the idea that the words are
spoken to him personally. He glides easily from
Btory to song, from song to music, and it is all
done with an ease and grace that is refreshing.
In fact, his show is not a show at all, it’s a case of
calling round to spend a delightful evening with a
clever, pleasant fellow who does all the talking
and provides the music and the amusement, while
the guest supplies merely the laughter.
4|&
The pantomime at Sydney Royal has been
trimmed and polished and generally improved, so
that it now runs its merry course within three
hours. There are many remarkably clever little
girls in this panto.—so many as to give pause to
the man who goes to court a girl of 18 or 20 under
the impression that she is a shy and unknowing
little thing whose timidity must not be rudely
shocked. At the Royal the girls seem to have all
the self-possession and artfulness possible at the
age of six or seven.
* * * *
“The Great World of London” still
prospers at Sydney Lyceum. It has the advan-
tage over most melodramas of a strengthening of
the interest towards the end. The final act, in a
Salv’army doss-house where Englishmen who will
never be slaves enjoy the blessings of Freetrade
in coffin-shaped boxes, is the strongest of all—and,
on the whole, the best acted. The ranting orator
and the other types of submerged decimals are all
true to life.
* * * *
“Twelfth Night,” considering its advanced
age, is a most vigorous comedy of love, liquor
and practical jokery. When the Janet Waldorf
Co. played “Twelfth Night” in the middle of an
unfortunate season at Her Majesty’s some 18
months ago, it came as a glad surprise to a good
many Melbourne people, whose remarks on the
subject should excite interest in the present
production at the Princess’s. This arrangement
of the story condensed into three acts
has no special points of difference from
the version Miss Waldorf presented, ex-
cept as regards the staging, and although
one now misses the incomparable unctuousness
of Atholwood’s inebriety, there are several com-
pensating circumstances. Assisted by a fine
orchestra and some capital scenic fixings (that
admit of new “ business ” in Olivia’s Garden), the
Musgrove co. gives a notable entertainment. No
artists could make the loves and misunderstand-
ings of Olivia, Orsino, Viola and Sebastian, look
quite convincing all round, or even half probable,
but the personal appearance of the four young
people appointed to those romantic charac-
ters is at least a handsome apology for
Shakspeare’s fiction. Three of them—Miss
Rignold as Viola, Norman Partridge, the
dejected duke, and Thomas Holding as the alleged
image of Miss R. aforesaid, are about as natural
as the author allows them to be. Miss Nora
Kerin speaks the lines of Olivia in a strictly arti-
ficial way. Her performance is poor. Neverthe-
less the duke’s infatuation is explained and the
fact that a strange young man bites like asharkat
Olivia’s offer of marriage is not a surprising fact.
Miss Kerin’s countenance imparts a beautiful
truthfulness to the Shakspearian incident, any-
how. In the plot to fool Malvolio the mpst
effective figure is Miss Maud Milton, whose talent
for broad comedy has greatly expanded since
she first played Audrey in “As You Like
It.” Athol Forde, as Sir Toby, is less
satisfactory in the kitchen scene than in the
garden. The Aguecheek of Croker-King is more
than passable, whilst Kenningham’s clown has
the advantage of a cultivated tenor voice as com-
pared with the brighter clown that Edmund
Gwenn introduced at the other theatre. Lathbury
and Coe fill their places, and the Malvolio of
W. H. Denny is an admirable performance. The
Countess’s steward bears himself lilte a vain man
of fair intelligence rather than a bombastic fool.
There is no buffooning to the gallery. The actor
rarely or never steps outside of his character
to force the absurdity of the situation. Finally
he turns the audience’s sympathy to Malvolio.
The man has suffered severely for the crime of
over-rating his self-importance—which is a pretty
general misdemeanor, anyhow. A weaker
steward would have been captured by Maria, who
must have laid a good many snares for her ginger-
headed boss before she denounced him as sour
grapes. Melbourne Shakspeare Society should
start to discuss the character of Maria in the light
of her marriage with Toby Belch.
* * *
“A Country Girl” prospers at Her
Majesty’s. It belongs to the numerous tadpole
family of musical comedies beginning with a
swollen head and leading to nothing in particular,
but the head in this case contains a new idea or
two, and the tail is exceptionally sudden. There’s
a lot of mystery to be cleared away when the
orchestra knocks off work. One goes home feeling
interested in several questions which were
taken up and dropped. Miss Young and
Reg. Roberts appear to know what is going
to happen to them, also the creamy-brown Prin-
cess from Bhong has a good grip of an intended
husband, and the Minister for Fine Arts seems*
free from all anxiety. The future of the other
people is not even suggested. What becomes of
the proud but unreposeful lady who can’t pay her
milliner’s bill? Does Lauri marry Rose Mus-
grove and take over the bad debts of the business,
or does he go into partnership with Raikes the
Rajah ? And where does the significance of Maud
Chetwynd come in ? Nobody attempts to explain
Maud’s conduct. She dances on and dances off
like a burst of madness, or a celestial columbine.
*# * *
A realistic thunderstorm commands a
measure of reverence for Bland Holt’s latest Aus-
tralian drama at Melbourne Royal. This is a
fine work of theatrical nature on its damp and
noisy “own,” and it has even a dim connection
with the drama, for when Brown and
Styan are gloating over some stolen papers
in the foreground of the thunderstorm (a
most unsuitable spot for examining docu-
ments) the lunatic heir to the missing Murrum-
bidgee miser meets a mysterious fate in
the background. A flash of lightning hurls him
into a raging torrent, or the earth opens and
swallows him up, whereupon the villains are
understood to congratulate one another, but the
voice of the tempest renders them inaudible. The
two bad men of the drama are always thwarted in
their endeavors to score, although Styan, the
bolder spirit, has a good try for a treble event in
between the periods of comic relief. Having choked
Miss Ireland and dropped Baker down a gold mine,
he straightway proceeds to marry Miss Ross at a
Westralian bush chapel, but Baker comes back
from the bowels of the earth and sneaks the bonny
bride from his mortal foe. Styan being placed
under arrest, Miss Ross decides to marry Baker
rather than let the wedding breakfast be
wasted ; so the parson joins their hands, and
Baker’s honest Australian heart is made happy
by the thought that he has trumped the knave’s
trick in “ A Desperate Game.”
** * *
“ Little Red Riding Hood,” at the Bijou,
has settled down into a likeable little panto., as
pantos, go. Three or four, or five, matinees were
included in last week’s work, and the members of
the company now present a hard, muscular
appearance when they grapple with their topical
wheezes and struggle to maintain harmonious
relations with the orchestra. If the orchestra
were as bright as the ballet of children in the first
act, “Red Riding Hood” would supply the
annual want more pleasingly than at present.
* * #
Wirth’s Circus, which arrived on top of a
delusive heat-wave, and is likely to be chased out
by a blizzard, will conclude its wet and dusty
Melbourne fortnight on Friday (Bth). Till then,
Pagel will defy the surrounding populace to
rival his feats of strength, and the Howard
Bros, will amaze all - comers at the big
tent by the flowing Yarra. Likewise the
rest of the Circus will be there in all its glory
until the date aforementioned. At the Athenaeum
Hall a Biograph of superior quality is presenting
a new Bull Fight and other pictures of less
lamentable interest. Melbourne has a fitful
craving for entertainment at the Athenaeum. The
Biograph happened to strike the city when a fit
was due.
* # *
At the Opera House (where Vulcana and
Atlas toy with tons of metal as before) a highly
favorable impression was made by Clark and
Hamilton for a night or two after Xmas. Then the
convalescent lady had a relapse, and the musical
sketch, in which she takes only a minor part, was
suspended until further orders. Winton and
M'Ginty came to hand on Saturday, likewise
Johnny Johnson, who plays the’cello and raises
laughs. When a musical artist ventures to bill
himself as “Johnny,” he practically enters into a
solemn contract to be comic. He must excite
merriment somehow, or bust in the endeavor.
** # *
Adelaide Tivoli has re-opened with an
“all-star ” variety co., mostly composed of local
artists. The show fills an evident public demand
for the holiday season. The most startling turn
is an aerial hypnotic item by the Silvesters, the
lady being apparently balanced by one arm on a
single upright support. It is an old trick, but
always effective. Fitzgerald’s circus has been
doing great business with two shows a day. The
lion has to perform without any Pagel to throw
him about this year, and seems much happier for
the change ; but the tiger rides a padded horse, as
before. The tiger relieves his feelings with his
teeth on the pad ; an expectant public is waiting
for him to bite the horse. Ada Crossley is
due for a big farewell at the Exhibition.
** # *
The only performance at the Adelaide
Royal has been in the newspapers. Lessee Pol-
lock, having engaged the Beatrice Esmond Co. to
play “Fauntleroy” on Boxing Night, was faced
by a demand for arrears of salaries about 5 o’clock
that afternoon. As he had had nothing to do
with the co.’s previous wanderings he naturally
refused to oblige, and the whole crcwd, except
Miss Esmond and the manager, went on strike.
Public opinion, at first strongly against the
strikers, veered round on their announcing that
the salaries for their up-country touring are about
six months in arrear ; but it is felt that they need
not have fooled the public, and, as a matter of
fact, a fairly successful holiday season in Adelaide
would have given a chance to the treasury and to
the players.
On Xmas Day, Dean Yance, and on
Jan. 2, Canon Goodman (Vic.), celebrated the
jubilees of their ordination.
The annual “Commemoration” of S.A.,
on December 28, saw the “roll call” at Glenelg
signed by six men out of those who came out in
1836 with Governor Hindmarsh in the Buffalo.
The proceedings are held, as far as possible, under
the same gum-tree where he read his proclamation
on landing. Several others (including one lady)
also date from 1836, and of the “pioneers” (up to
and including 1840) there are still nearly 100
living and able to attend.
Christmas carol singing has become a great
nuisance in Adelaide, and an expensive nuisance
at that. Chief Justice Way inserted advertise-
ments asking that no midnight warblers should
butcher sleep at his door, and a popular Adelaide
parson, whose income is more restricted than his
family, says it cost him 30s. to pay six dreadful
bands to go away in the early hours of Christmas
morning.
PHIL MAY IN AUSTRALIA.
An Edition de luxe of a book under this title, con-
taining nearly one hundred pages of reproduc-
tions of the best and most interesting drawings
made by Phil May in this country, will be pub-
lished by The Bulletin Newspaper Company on
17th January.
The contents are examples of May’s work in
portraiture, caricature, social and political car-
tooning, and humorous subjects. Many of the
pages contain three or four drawings ; so that
the total content is more than two hundred
separate subjects.
These drawings are of unusual interest to the
artist and connoisseur. They exhibit the develop-
ment of the talent of the most brilliant pen-
draughtsman of his generation—possibly of any
generation—in the various phases through which
he reached his unrivalled original style. Apart
from the artistic interest, they have a unique
Australian interest, in that they contain portraits
of most of the Australian celebrities of the
’eighties, and of many who are still living to-day.
Most of the original drawings reproduced were
recently sold at an average price of 3 1. 3s. each.
A few others, not exhibited or sold, are now
included. Three-hundred and fifty proofs of some
of the subjects have been sold at from 2s. 6 d. to
7s. 6 d. each.
The price of the present volume, to subscribers
whose names and remittances are received before
January 17, is 10s. 6d. net. The edition is limited
to 975 copies. The special copies (25) at 11. 11s. (>d.
each have been subscribed, and are already quoted
at 21. 2s. and over.
On publication, the price of the 10s. 6d. edition,
if any copies remain not subscribed, will be raised
to 11. Is.
The book of Phil May in Australia is printed on
art paper, and bound in half-cloth with a decora-
tive panel. The size is demy folio (18in. x 12in.)
—that is, the full size of The Bulletin, and the
book has been printed in first-class style. Other
features are a special end-paper (Australian
landscape) designed by Percy Lindsay; a very
full iconography ; and a prefatory account of the
life and work of May.
The book is one of the most ambitious and
interesting yet attempted in Australia, and the
publishers’ cost for engraving and printing will
scarcely be repaid at the subscription price. On a
comparison of relative values with similar im-
ported books by foreign illustrators, the book is
well worth a guinea.
The book will not be reprinted in its present
form, and subscribers will thus obtain a rare
edition, which is practically certain to be en-
hanced in price and value as the years pass.
Rough sample copies may be seen at The
Bulletin offices, 214 George-street, Sydney, and
Old Exchange, 369 Collins-street, Melbourne,
where subscriptions will be received. Owing to
the size and weight of the book, delivery will be
made at these offices, or as arranged. Where
copies must be sent by post, it is necessary to add
2s. 6d. for postage.
The Wild Cat Column.
It is easy enough to see the small, isolated hard-
ships incidental to the working of the N.S.W. Arbitration
Act; it isn’t so easy to see all the trouble it prevents.
This week a reduced hewing rate has been introduced at
Newcastle without any ructions, notwithstanding that the
men are said to be almost unanimously of opinion that
there is a good case for resisting it. Without the Act all
that they could do would be to strike ; with the Act they
simply proceed with work at the lower rate of pay
(3s. lOd. per ton, as against the previous 4s. 2d.) and
appeal to the Arbitration Court to decide whether it is
fair or not. The owners say that the selling price has
fallen so much from the 11s. per ton on the basis
of which the 4s. 2d. rate was fixed in 1901 that
no profit now remains, hut in many cases a loss;
while the men say that, if there has been a fall in the
selling price, it has been avoidable, and the result of
cut-throat competition among the producers. There is a
conflict, also, as to what the selling rate really is. The
whole dispute will be before the court within the next
two months. Meantime, work proceeds as quietly as
usual. Contrast this with the year of struggle, the
bitterness, the loss, and the suffering which, in the
absence of an Arbitration law, has followed in Victoria
upon an almost precisely similar difference of opinion at
the Gippsland collieries.
* * * *
In making his final report to Sydney City Coun-
cil after being for two years Mayor, Thomas Hughes showed
how the Gas Co. had tried not only to dodge the rates
which the courts lately said it must pay, but to actually
penalise the city for attempting to collect the money.
For 60 years this most profitable monopoly has had the
use of the streets for nothing. Others have been taxed
on their improvements ; the Gas Co. has laid its mains in
the streets, paid a 15 per cent.'dividend, and escaped
free. The courts finally said that it was liable to pay, and
the amount was fixed at £2233 per year for the
past two years. Thereupon, notwithstanding that
the price of gas to the ordinary consumer has been
reduced since the last agreement with the co. was made
for street-lighting, the co. called upon the city to pay
£2906 a year more than it has been paying. In other
words, the city, instead of collecting the new rates from
the co., would actually be £673 worse off than before the
court’s decision was given in the city’s favor. That plain
attempt to defeat the law was discreditable enough ; but
the co. did still worse. With the knowledge (for it must
have had the knowledge) that the city’s electric
lighting plant would be ready by the middle of the
year to do half of the city lighting, it demanded
that the city should pay the co. at the higher rate
for lighting the whole of the city for a fixed term
terminating not before 31st December, 1905. The city
which had dared to collect rates from this 15 per cent,
monopoly was thus not only going to be charged so much
more that the co. would actually make a profit out of
being rated, but the co. sought to squeeze the rate-
payers into paying for the lighting of the whole city for
18 months after the gas had been to a great extent
replaced by the electric light. And, but for one little
flaw in its position, it might have succeeded ; for the city
must be lighted, and as the Gas Co. alone can supply the
light, the city seemed absolutely at its mercy. To some
extent, however, that one flaw saved the situation—the
co. had overlooked a letter, sent last July, continuing
the present agreement for a year. Of course, when it
discovered that, it withdrew its claws. But the city
knows now that the claws are there. They are no use
till July next; but what then ? The city only proposes
to do half its own lighting, for the present anyway. For
the rest it will be still at the mercy of the co. with the
claws; and a city which has seen the claws, and only
escaped them by a lucky accident, deserves to be scratched
if it deliberately puts itself at the animal’s mercy. There
is only one thing to be done : to hurry on with the
electric light installation and make it capable, not of
dealing with the lighting of only half the city, but of the


TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.— Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Trarpwa.v, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
W Our CATALOGUE is yqurs fo%- the asking. 1S&
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEP LAS TRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Oaiyns and Zeehan (Tasmapia)
m
Finance Chronicle, London, Ist. August,
1903 : “ The report of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is a very favorable one, and is happily
summarised as follows. A larger new business, an
increased premium income, a higher rate of interest earned
on investments, a greater increase in funds and a lower
expense ratio.”*
• * * *
The great merits of the Wilfley Concentrator
are evidently fully recognised by the mining community
of Australia ; over 600 of the tables have now been sold
in the Commonwealth and the Sole Agents and Manu-
facturers, the Austral Otis Engineering Company of South
Melbourne, find some difficulty in keeping ahead of their
orders. It is only natural to expect that such a striking
improvement over all previous machines of similar object ,
would speedily attract the attention of the mining
community, and such literally proved to be the case.
Without attempting to follow in detail its phenomenal
success, it will only, be necessary to state that in the
comparatively short time it has been on the market, more
than 600 tables have been sold in Australia, and very
many thousands in America and elsewhere.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * »
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* . * * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
» * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England,-4s now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * * *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts, of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * » *
E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
* * * *
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
•—• * •
M.L. dredging returns for the past two years:
1902. 1903.
Otago .. .. 104,2970 z. 84,5780 z. Dec. 19,7190 z.
West Coast .. 28,9440 z. 29,7290 z. Inc. 7850 z.
Totals .. 133,2410 z. 114,3070 z. Dec. 18,9340 z.
The West Coast results, in spite of the increases, are the
more disappointing. Great things were expected from
that quarter, and a dredging boom followed ; but the
streams are too liable to flood, and the ground too un-
even, to allow of general and continued success. Rough
weather was mainly responsible for the decline in the
Otago output. In Otago the greatest number of dredges
that have reported in any one week was 77; on the West
Coast 29.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Sofia,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald,
174 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eajfle-s*t.,
Brisbane; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z,
whole of it. Meantime the co. has provided reformers
with the most telling argument available for many a day
in support of the municipalisation of all indispensable
public services.
* * * *
The year’s loss on the Westralian goldfields
water scheme was about £60,000. Practically that is a
subsidy given by a handful of people to some of the
richest foreign mining co’s. in the world. A goldfields
statue of John Forrest, the originator of the scheme,
is now proposed. Instead of honoring Bigjohn, the
Bulletin suggests that they come to the point and honor
the Big Bill.
* * * *
The Australian stock quotations show that it
hasn’t been the partial failure of a season’s wheat-ferop that
has been troubling Bull-Cohen lately ; for the quotations
are much lower now, when a phenomenal harvest is
assured, than they were right in the midst of the drought,
12 months ago. The prices of some leading lines com-
pare :
Opening Opening
‘ Price, Price, Decline.
1903. 1904.
N.S.W. 3Fs(1918) .. .. 102 98 4
N.S.W. 3’s (1935) .... 93 86 7
Vic. 3J’s (1921) .. .. 101 95| 51
Vic. 3’s (1929-49) .. .. 94J 86
S. Aus. 3.V’s (1939) .. .. 102 100 2
S. Aus. 3’s (1916) .... 93 87 6
Queensland 3J’s (1924-30) .. 99 95 4
W.A. 3F5(1919-35) .. ..101 96 5
* * * *
“ Vul.” : Good old “Private Enterprise” again
—the same moral Private Enterprise which is so horribly
shocked when “socialistic legislation” is whispered!
Two shindykits which recently got concessions in the
private railway-building line —the Cloncurry railway
crowd and the Burketown-Lilydale tramway co.—have
just taken a firm hold of the Bananaland Government
doormat in a brassy cadge for further concessions. The
Cloncurry crowd had the gall to coolly ask the Govern-
ment to guarantee interest on the debentures issued in
connection with the line ! The Government answer to
this bit of assurance was to politely but firmly put the
co. outside on its ear. The request of the Burketown-
Lilydale co. hadn’t transpired at time of writing, but it
is described as running “on somewhat novel lines.”
Judging from the request of the other crowd, which
wasn't thought novel, the request will probably turn out
to be something like a plea for the Government to pay
the co. rent for condescending to run its line in the
“ beastly country.”
» * * »
Malvern: A.M.P., £62; City Mutual, £75
Puzzled Economist: Better ask somebody who has made
the assertion ; Tiie Bulletin hasn’t. As a matter of
fact, Australia pays for a large quantity of imported
calico with gold—actual, yellow gold.. ..Darby: (1) Last
three divs. paid by Brilliant Extended were on Dec. 24,
1902 ; April 20, 1903 ; and July 20, 1903. (2) No.
* * « »
R. T. Vale, a Vic. ex-Minister, angry at the
statement, “ made on the authority of our responsible
Ministers, of an alleged deficit of £600,000,” has “ care-
fully examined the figures of the Auditor-General,” and
finds that “in six years ending June, 1902, we (Victoria)
paid off old liabilities and many unforeseen expenditures
to the total extent of lj millions.” The result of Shiels’
croaking, he says, has been that the recent renewal of the
loan was disastrous, and “ the loss of credit, which was not
justifiable, has cast upon our shoulders, over the loan-
renewal, a burden altogether of 1£ millions.” Owing
to Victoria’s foolish habit of issuing no monthly expendi-
ture returns, it certainly is quite possible for Shiels or
any other Treasurer to create a huge deficit in the middle
of the year in order to scare the country into starving the
aged poor, or adopting some other panic policy ; and it is
quite possible that, in faking a deficit for political pur-
poses, great damage may be done to the Country’s credit
—as it certainly was done in this case. The remedy
is, first, to create a sinking fund out of which
loans may be repaid, so that the country will
not be so absolutely at the mercy of the Bull-Cohen who
holds the bill that is falling due ; then, to publish at
least quarterly statements of receipts and expenditure,
so that neither vague bogus deficits nor vague bogus
surpluses may be created for political purposes.
As to ex-Minister Vale’s figures, they don’t
tally with Coghlan’s, and Coghlan is a pretty good
authority. Most of the explanation of the difference lies
in the fact that Vale includes such items as old-age pen-
sions, Duke of York celebrations, S’African Contingents,
&c., among the “ unforeseen expenditures.” The money
was spent, anyway. Ooghlan’s figures for the period
are :
June, Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus. Deficit.
1897 .. £6,630,217 £6,568,932 £61,285
1898 .. 6,898,240 6,928,850 £30,610
1899 .. 7,378,842 7,001,663 377,179
1900 .. 7,450,676 7,280,689 169,987
1901 .. 7,722,397 7,683,079 39,318
1902 .. 7,006,333 7,407,781 401,448
Total Surplus .. £647,769
Total Deficit £432,058
Net Surplus for six years .. £215,711
But as against this there was a considerable sum which
should have been paid for out of the proceeds of land-
sales, but wasn’t, the shortage being pub to a suspense
account. The period covered, however, represents
one of the cleanest in Victorian political history;
George Turner was looking after the Treasury most
of the time, and making the reputation which has adhered
to him ever since. Down to the early part of 1901
Turner was in charge ; then Peacock had a brief turn ;
after him the disastrous Irvine and Shiels. In the main,
then, Vale’s contention is sound enough; on the figures
down to the end of Turner’s regime, anyway, there was
no reason for a loss of credit. But after Turner came
Peacock, and Irvine and Shiels ; and Victoria had to be
judged by them, and not by the plain little man in
brown whom it had the good fortune to have at the
Treasury a. few years previously. And, when Victoria
was judged by them, the result was naturally disastrous.
* * * '*
The shareholders in one of the small proprietary
life assurance offices held their annual meeting the other
day, and the proceedings ran into five hours. Such a lot
of nasty things can be said in five hours, and such a lot
of nasty things are liable to be said when no dividend is
payable, that it isn’t altogether surprising that
libel proceedings have followed. The chairman is the
defendant; the manager the prosecutor. The defence
was reserved, and the accused committed. The public
are likely to get some valuable information out of the
proceedings. Already it is alleged that one share-
holder (the chairman) holds, more than half the shares,
and that he had his dummies on the board.
■-» * *
The first item in the first schedule to the Wes-
tralian Loan Bill “ to authorise the. raising of £1,582,000"
by loan for the construction of certain public works,
&c.,” is “Departmental: Administration, £129,320.”
For the first five months of the financial year the Wes-
tralian revenue fell short of the expenditure by £44,107 ;
and, in the absence of any explanation, it looks as though
the State, which ought to be busy making hay while its
rich gold deposits are being wolfed, contemplates
squaring its finances by charging to loan some of
the ordinary expenses of government. Probably no coun-
try in the world has less excuse for borrowing than
Westralia. In the past four years foreign mining co.’s
have taken nearly £6,250,000 out of the State—an average
of about £33 per head of the total mean population
during that period. Meantime the debt has been in-
creased by £5,245,000, or £2B per head of the mean popu-
lation. The outsider has thus taken £33 of gold and left
£2B of debt. Bull-Cohen has in this way been hitherto
good enough to lend the State some of its own gold
at 4 per cent, or so. Even while the money was borrowed
to carry out works from which a return might be got it was
bad enough business ; but it is worse still to borrow in
order to carry on the ordinary administrative work, in-
stead of taxing the foreigners who are carting off the
country’s wealth, and the other people who are making
large incomes out of those high ground-rents which are
also the result of ripping-out the rich ore.
Another small item in the Westralian Loan
Bill badly needs explaining. An amount of £63,000 is to
be applied to “ Discounts on Current Loans.” If this
means what it seems to mean, Westralia proposes to fall
into line with those financial fakirs of the Eastern
States who have been paying interest out of
loans. They all deny, of course, that they
do anything of the sort ; but their denial doesn’t
alter the fact. By offering a low rate of interest Wes-
tralia has had to accept loans at a discount—it has got
probably £96 for every £lOO of stock. The amount of
cash actually received being thus short of the amount of
the loans, it is now proposed to borrow to make up the
difference. If there were no discount a higher rate of
interest would have to be paid; discount, therefore,
represents the difference between the two rates of in-
terest. To borrow in order to pay discount is thus
exactly the same as borrowing to pay interest. It is bor-
rowing to pay interest, in fact. And Westralia has no
drought to urge as an excuse. Its prosperity (reckoning
by production per head of the population) is phenomenal.
Unless, therefore, the Loan Bill item means something
quite different from what it apparently means, its appear-
ance in the Bill represents a most disastrous state of
affairs.
• * * •
Lyttelton (M.L.) Council has finished its first
year’s control of the port’s gasworks ; and here is a com-
parison of the first year under municipal and the last
year under company management:
Municipal Company
Management. Management.
Earnings £2762 £2216
Working Expenses .. .. 1371 1384
Interest or Dividends .. 590 800
Average sale price of Gas) q q „.m
per 1000 ft. / a 3, 1 aB, z ° a -
Gross Cost of Gas per)
1000 ft. (including in- V 6s. 7'42d. Bs. B'66d.
terest or dividend) J
Of the £7Ol available as the result of the year’s work
£lOO is to go to sinking fund, £4OO to be written off for
depreciation, and the balance carried forward. The
result is, so far, in every respect, a triumph for public
ownership ; and there would be a still larger triumph in
the future if more were invested in the sinking fund and
the net interest burden were thus lightened.
• * * •
It isn’t a new discovery that Queensland can
grow good cotton. At the London Exhibition in 1862 the
State secured a gold medal for a local cotton exhibit—the
plants-were grown within 10 miles of Brisbane. Yet, all
these years, when there wasn’t any Labor party in power
and no Socialistic legislation, the capitalist did not come
along to establish the industry. In fact, it is only now,
just when a semi-Labor party has got into office, that
British cotton people have begun to move in the matter.
It looks as though they had been waiting all these years
for the Labor party to arrive.
* * • •
The progress of agriculture in Westralia :
Acres cut Acres stripped
for hay. for wheat.
1897 80,939 38,706
1898 79,223 75,032
1899 78,893 84,462
1900 104,254 74,308
1901 92,654 94,710
1902 105,791 92,398
1903 (approx.) 110,000
A 12-bushel harvest is expected. But if there is no more
than that it is pretty certain that it will fall a good deal
Bhort of local requirements in spite of recent estimates.
*■• > • *
For the first time in the 14 years of its life the
Broken Hill reservoir has been full and overflowing.
There was always a doubt as to whether the weir and
other works would stand under a full flood, but they did.
The co. will not sell much water for many a month ; but
the unusual rains will, no doubt, have drowned the
agitation for a supplementary supply, so the co. can still
afford to smile. Broken Hill soon forgets, and doesn’t
start to remember again until it can almost eat its water
with a fork and feed it into the boilers with a shovel.
• * * *
B.H. South had a record output the last week
before Christmas ; it milled 3731 tons crude sulphides,
468 tons old tailings, and 193 tons old slimes —in all 4392
tons, bulking 17‘4 per cent, lead, 9'Boz. silver, andlB’Bper
cent. zinc. From this 676 tons concentrates, averaging
69*5 per cent, lead and 29'40z. silver, were obtained.
There were thus 764'2 tons of lead in the ore, and 489*8
tons were saved ; of silver there were 43,0410 z. in the ore,
and 19,8740 z. were saved. Of the zind none was turned
to practical account. Tut into sterling, £5477 worth of
lead was won and £3OBO went into the dumps; of the
silver £2153 was saved and £2510 wasn’t. And all the
zinc wasn’t. Yet the B.H. South does unusually good
mill work. It only shows how far from perfect the mill
process is.
* 4l 41 £
Mount Morgan (Q.) has only had a moderately
profitable half-year, so far as either output or divs. go,
but prospecting has given some important results. The
yield was 50,9320 z. from 123,817 tons, an average of only
BJdwt., or 2dwt. poorer than for the preceding year.
From tailings re-treated another 15490 z. were got;
total, 52,4810 z. The average per half year, in 1902,
was 71,7920 z., and in 1901 73,8140 z. Divs. were
£75,000; total to date, £6,354,166. But while these
results do not compare well with those of the past;
prospects are better. The steam shovel is removing
large quantities of overburden, and making somewhat
richer ore available ; while the drill proves that payable
copper-bearing ore exists at 750 ft. An estimate has been
made that this ore covers two acres, and that for every
10ft. of depth there are 62,000 tons, averaging Bdwt. gold
and 3j per cent, copper—more profitable to treat, the
manager says, than the material which has lately been
worked.
**• • ♦
In a recent month the newest mine tool, Mt.
Morgan’s huge steam shovel, shifted something over
26,000 tons of overburden from above the 196 ft. level.
* » » *
Though Mt. Morgan (Q.) has only 12th place
in London Economist’s list of the greatest gold-producing
mines in the world, the writer (J. H. Curie) says :—“ The
‘ greatest ’ gold mine is claimed for probably 20 localities,
although I think, taking its past, present, and future
into consideration, that Mt. Morgan still holds that
title.” He still regards Fingall as “intrinsically the
best” of the Westralian mines.
*'« * *
The long-promised Admiralty test of Callide
(Central Queensland) coal has been disappointing. For a
given duty the consumption was 30 per cent, more than
of other Australian coal, and there was also an objection-
able rush of sparks. Still, it is surface coal, and may
improve with depth as other coals have done—Tasmanian
coals, for instance. As to the rush of sparks, Callide
coal has now to be carted 80 miles by road, and conse-
quently the test parcel was delivered much broken, and
probably required special feeding. One excellent feature
of the new coal is its low percentage of ash.
• * *
Queensland’s gold output for the year will pan )
out at about 909,0000 z., as against 860,4530 z. in 1902,
835,5530 z. in 1901, and 963,1890 z. in 1900. Charters 4
Towers was responsible for 431,8000 z., a gain of 40,8900 z.
Most other fields, except Mt. Morgan and Ravenswood,
show a slight improvement.
* * * *
“ W.0.L.”: A new shaft-sinking record has
just been put up on the Towers (Q.), at the Queen Cen-
tral Block, where manager and 20 men, all on wages,
sank a four-compartment shaft 140 ft. in four weeks, tim-
bering 31ft. The sinking was solid grey granite (and C.T.
grey granite is solid). Three shifts were worked. Could
our Chow-loving friend Bull come within cooee of this in
any of his nigger-run properties? Ever and anon some
fatted British mining expert wails that it is impossible
for white men to work in tropical Australia. Yet Char-
ters Towers is tropical enough.
» * * *
The chief Westralian gold returns for November
were: —Fine gold: Perseverance, 14,4610 z. ; Fingall,
10,8540 z.; Ivanhoe, 10,7200 z. ; Oroya-Brown Hill?
10,3140 z. ; Sons of Gwalia, 52800 z.; Golden Link, 16330 z. ;
East Murchison Utd., 14550 z. ; L.V. Consols, 41530 z. ;
Boulder Main Reef. 9200 z. ; Golden Age, 7170 z. ; and
Vivian, 5500 z. Standard gold : Kalgurli, 41960 z. ; Hain-
ault, 10430 z. Bullion: Horseshoe, 17,6160 z. ; Great
Boulder, 13,9860 z. ; Associated, 74190 z. ; Mt. Morgans,
50440 z ; Cosmopolitan, 56590 z. ; Peak Hill, 3018 oz. ;
Princess Royal, 19450 z. ; Bellevue, 16190 z. ; Hannan’s
Star, 15280 z. ; VV.F. Main Reefs, 12200 z. ; Westralia and
East Ext., 20920 z. ; Burbank’s Birthday Gift, 1016 oz. ;
Queensland Menzies, 911 oz. ; Ida H., 11660 z. ; St. George,
1120 oz. ; Harviston, 1088 oz. ; Menzies Cons., 7050 z. ;
Menzies Alpha, 5140 z. ; Champion Prop., 820 oz. ; Golden
Ridge, 680 oz. ; Fraser’s South Extd., 600 oz. ; Paddington
Consols, 4160 z. ; North Kalgurli, 7640 z.; Red Hill, 4650 z. ;
Lady Robinson, 3050 z. ; Cumberland Niagara, 4500 z. ;
Golden Arrow, 4820 z ; Webster’s Find, 3060 z.
* * » *
Westralian mining dividends for the past two
years:—
1902 1903
Perseverance.. ... ..£350,000 £350,000
Horseshoe 270,000 270,000
Boulder 218,750 262,500
Fingall 206,250 200,000
Oroya-Brown Hill .. .. 40,500 191,250
Ivanhoe 100,000 180,000
Assoc. Northern .. .. 87,500 105,000
Sons of Gwalia .. .. 79,500
Cosmopolitan .. .. 60,000
Kalgurli 30,000 60,000
Associated 49,539
Mt. Morgans 48,537 45,000
Brown Hill Ex 45,000
Prin. Royal 16,000 32,000
Idall 13,500 24,300
Queensland Menzies .. 9,900 19,800
Peak Hill 15,000
W.F.M. Reefs .. .. 8,000 8,000
Burbank’s Birthday Gift .. 9,000 4,500
Lancefield 3,960
Island Eureka .. .. 10,667 1,000
Menzies Alpha .. .. 1,000
Lady Shenton .. .. 8,000
Cosmopolitan .. .. 10,000
£1,436,604 £2,007,349
In 1901 the aggregate was £1,093,000 ; but in 1899 it
exceeded the record of even the past year, though in
that case it is now admitted that the mines were worked
with the single purpose of booming shares.
* * * *
Lancefield, Laverton (W.A.), recently pur-
chased by Bewick, Moreing and Co. for £50,000, is to be
equipped with a 12-drill air compressor, and a splendid
40-head mill, acquired from the defunct wild cat Euro.
The mine has been worked for some years, and has paid
monthly divs. of £360. Only three levels have been
worked, the lode ranging from 18ft. to 26ft., and worth
from 8 to The shaft is 236 ft. deep, and all the
ore so far has been oxidised. Even with the enlarged
mill it is unlikely that the, profit will exceed £l5OO
monthly, so the mine cannot stand a very high
capitalisation. It is the lowest-grade proposition
in W.A. that has been worked at a profit, and its
acquisition by John Bull may be an object lesson to the
mineowners of the Rand, who argue that colored labor is
essential to cheap gold-mining.
* * * »
Bellevue, Mt. Sir Samuel, will, before long, be
one of the dozen big gold-producers of W.A. The new
40-head mill is expected to treat some 5000 tons monthly,
as the old 20-head, though admittedly obsolete and badly
erected, has got through nearly 2000 tons monthly.
Above No. 3 level it is estimated that over 53,000 tons of
ore are in reserve, and the chute has been proved to be
over 900 ft. in length. The new main shaft is being
pushed ahead, and will be ready when the mill starts.
The co. has been earning a profit of £7OO monthly, but it
is expected to be much more when the new mill talks.
The co. owns 197 acres, and has a capital of 400,000
shares, of which 10,000 are held in reserve. It started
two years ago with a working capital of £70,000, a good
deal of which must have gone in buying and transport-
ing the new plant. The weakness of the position is that
the Gold Finance Corporation and Berwick, Moreing,
and Co.’s firm hold 230,000 shares between them, and may
start to realise on any advance.
• • « •
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) is in a rather precarious
position; twice in a fortnight the machinery has been
hung up through lack of water for the boilers. A start
has been made to sink a water shaft about four miles
away, but this will take time and money. Through ex-
cess of “ economy," it is also stated that the reserves are
not so large as they should be, and that it is taking the
men all their time to keep the mill fully supplied. The
mine is being run very economically, and, unless the
water supply gives out, it is unlikely that returns will
fall, as development can be easily pushed ahead by
engaging more men.
• • * *
North Boulder, Kalgoorlie, reports that a bore-
hole from the 600 ft. level has cut a lode 4ft. wide assay-
ing 24dwt. per ton at a distance of 328 ft. The history of
boreholes has been so unsatisfactory that no one now
takes them seriously. The market, evidently, views this
borehole with indifference, as the scrip shows no tendency
to move. There is no known lode of any value either
north or south of the property, and it is safest to wait
until exploration proves such a lode to exist.
* * * *
Great Boulder Prop., Kalgoorlie, intends,
immediately after the holidays, to sink a new main shaft
on the north block adjoining Boulder No. 1. On this
lease boreholes put down from Jansen’s shaft intersected
the Ivanhoe East lode at 400, 850, 1050 and 1350 ft. The
lode'averaged 10ft. in width, and ran from 8 to 25dwt.,
the best values being got at the lowest point reached.
The new shaft is to be 14 x sft., the biggest on the mine.
Jansen’s shaft, immediately north of the Ivanhoe, is
being enlarged, and the work will shortly be completed.
The co. .evidently intends to go in for a much more active
policy, and, as it holds 85 acres, or double that of any other
of the big mines, and all splendidly situated, a more go-
ahead policy is fully justified. The lode at 1750 ft. fully
maintains its width and value. There is talk of doubling
the treatment plant, but nothing very definite so far.
* * * *
Tom Doyle, of Kanowna (W. A.), has treated a
further 19 tons for 3190 z. over the plates. Total to date,
37430 z. from 219 tons, for less than two years’ work. The
leader is still looking well.
* * * *
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), continues to
prove that the mine is not nearly so worked-out as>share-
holders were told. The latest return published reads
3860 z. from 11 tons, bringing the total since Octoher to
12620 z. from 142 tons. This is a better monthly return
than was got by treating lOdwt. ore at practically no
profit, and shows what noses tributors have for gold.
Developments at four levels on the co’s new property,
the South Gippsland, are still being pushed ahead, and
the mine looks fairly promising. The 10-head mill is
running full time in conjunction with the cyanide plant,
and the full strength of the property should shortly be
known.
* * * *
Lone Hand, Bardoc (W.A.), recently taken
up by a party of prospectors, has given the nice return
of 189 oz. from 20 tons of stone. Even in alleged well-
districts in W.A. some good things have been
missed.
* * * *
Hampton Syndicate, Coolgardie, has just
treated 23 tons of wash for 2390 z., bringing the total,
including dollied gold, to 6390 z. London shareholders in
Hampton Plains Estate are nearly frenzied over this find,
and the secretary has been obliged to circularise them to
appease their appetites. The find is not a lode, but
merely a lower deposit of alluvial than that worked by
the .Italian wood-cutters some years ago. Had this fact
been cabled, instead of it being stated “ have cut reef at
lot of unnecessary excitement might
have been avoided.
* • « 0
The Westralian copper output is now something
considerable. They hear more about it in London than
Australia does. Early in November this cable was pub-
lished there regarding the output from the Anaconda
(Murrin) mine : “ Shipped, per Oratava, 180 tons matte.
Estimate will ship 150 tons 16th Nov., 400 tons 30th Nov.,
400 tons 14th Deo.” The matte runs from 50 to 52 per
cent, metal, so that these lots would contain about 570
tons of copper, worth £32,000. For some time, the dis-
trict monthly output has been nearly 2500 tons of ore, and
the total yield so far about 35,000 tons. It was lately re-
ported, nevertheless, that there was a considerable
amount of wages unpaid ; and, if that is so, it looks like
evidence of bad management somewhere
The three great gold-producing States show up
approximately as follows for the past five years
Westralia, Queensland, Victoria,
ounces. ounces. ounces.
1899 .. .. 1,643,877 946,894 854,500
1900 .. .. 1,580,950 963,189 807,407
1901 .. .. 1,879,390 835,553 789,562
1902 .. .. 2,177,442 860,453 825,334
1903 .. .. 2,436,310 909,000 812,823
The Westralian figures do not, however, represent fine
gold. It is very desirable that all gold should be reported
fine, but, like many other desirable things, the change
takes a long time to arrive. The Queensland figures for
1903 are subject to revision. Westralia has still some
distance to go to reach Victoria’s record of the ’so’s—
-3,053,7440z.
* » * *
Bendigo, for a year or two past:— '
1901. 1902. 1903.
Gold .. .. 193,0150 z. 193,6470 z. 231,6140 z.
Dividends .. £183,780 £207,990 4 322,415
Calls.. .. £136,109 £131,631 £144,366
Surplus .. £47,671 £76,359 £178,049
Except for 1899 this is the best gold yield since 1876 ; the
dividends are the greatest since 1882. The total produc-
tion, from 1851 onwards, is 17,728,2890 z., worth approxi-
mately £70,881,700. As in 1902, S. New Moon heads the
dividend list (£83,200); Ulster United, which was pre-
viously in the tail, comes up into second place with
£64,000; Great Northern (£51,750), third; then New
Moon (£43,200), Hustler’s No. 1 (£26,312), and Clarence
United (£18,000). In 1902 the figures were—S.N. Moon,
£59,200 ; Hustler’s No. 1, £31,372 ; Clarence, £29,250 ;
New Moon, £23,400 ; Great Northern, £16,500.
* * * *
Berry Consols Extended (Ballarat district)
lately introduced electric haulage underground, and is
satisfied that it is saving money. The last half-year’s
work gave £33,140 worth of gold (80740 z., against 74210 z.
in the previous half), and £12,000 was paid in divs. Co.
had £2016 on hand at end of half-year (Nov. 30), against
£1699 brought forward. Totals "since the co. started :
Gold, 73,6600 z. ; divs., £61,000, or £llos. 6d. per share.
* * * *


DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
“D.J. Orient” Boot
BLACK OR TAN
CALF,
16/6
f
Marrow or
Round Toes,
SPECIAL
VALUE
16/6
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney
sdf
i
Beware
QF [/y\ITATLO/NS>
r ✓rTrTx
o
<
v
1
! V«vW
Society
[?]
A man from Melbourne writes :
The Coogee-Fortunato Figari collision in Bass Strait on
Christmas morning was perhaps (it is impossible to say
definitely) another of the results of that noble system of
bustling competition. All sorts of rules and regulations
for the conduct of navigation in fogs are carefully set out
by the shipping authorities, and are as carefully set aside.
Of course, shipowners do not say to their captains, “ You
AT THE PARTY.
“ Now, darling, they're going to play Zoo, and want you to be a lion.'
“Don’ wanter be lion—wanter be sick.”
mustn’t let a fog make any difference to your speed.”
What happens is this : In the worst fog there is always
one captain, at least, who sprints through, and so long as
he gets through it is assumed that his course of action
was quite safe, and that the captains who didn’t sprint
were over-cautious and inefficient. So the captain who
doesn’t trade in very crowded waters finds it best to
sprint. The late Captain Carrington had frequently
come up the Bay on time in a fog so dense that almost
every other vessel had been brought to anchor. . When
that sort of thing comes off it s good seamanship—infact,
it is good seamanship whether it comes off or not. At
the same time there are risks about it. Carrington must
have been a man of iron nerve and wonderful presence
of mind. He could only have seen the Fortunato Figari a
minute before the collision occurred. It was a paralysing
the Coogee would have struck the Fortunato square on
the bow and cut its nose clean off. In doing so it would
have shattered its own bows, and it would have been a
race between them for the bottom of the sea.
The respondent in the M‘Master divorce
case (Maoriland) is a vivacious, graceful lady of
38, while the gentleman cited as 00., Isidore
Kino, sharebroker, of Sydney, was described
as a man of irreproachable deportment, aged
60—“ an elderly man, with the manners and
conduct of an elderly man.” Petitioner,
Ronald M‘Master, is a sheep-farmer, with
turfy tastes ; and when he separated from his
wife in ’95 he allowed her £5 a week. The lady
joined a married sister (whose husband was in
Westralia) in Sydney, and they lived at Petty’s
and the Empire, and afterwards set up house,
Kino, who had boarded at both pubs, mentioned,
joining them and paying £3 a week board-money.
Kino’s Stock Exchange knowledge proved invalu-
able, and Mrs. M'Master’s speculations were pro-
ductive of auriferous results. He also gave her
racing tips, but she didn’t mention how they
panned out. The couple occupied contiguous
rooms at the Empire, “quite by accident,” and
had a sitting-room in common, and although he
called her “Fan,” and she called him “ Isidore,”
there was never the slightest impropriety between
them. “He had too much respect for her even to
kiss her.” Some interesting photographs, how-
ever, taken from a building opposite the hotel, as
well as other evidence, made out a strong case
for the petitioner, who got his verdict, though a
.doubt was raised as to whether it was possible to
have taken the photos, in the circumstances in
which it was alleged they were taken. The case
lasted five days, and counsels’ addresses occupied
over 10 hours in all.
* * * •
“Pint”: As year succeeds year the
annual 25th of December festival degenerates
more and more into a mere drunk. This Christ-
mas in Melbourne was more drunk than usual.
We are driven to drink by a thermometer at 100°
in the shade, and by the memory of the Irvine
Government. Holiday drunks vary. On Christmas
Day we get gloriously drunk; at New Year we
get drunk on principle ; but Good Friday is a
sad, solemn sort of inebriation —drunk by force of
circumstances, not from choice. Apropos of
nothing in particular, the City Court bench broke
all holiday traditions by fining the Christmas
drunk the ordinary work-a-day dollar and costs.
Does this not bring the J.’sP. under the all-
embracing condemnation of being pro-Boers ?
* * * *
In Melbourne, the other day, an ill-regu-
lated religious person stood for a while in the
middle of a city street preaching and giving away
money to the poor. A constable who asked
questions was informed by the preacher that the
Lord said in the New Testament, “ Sell all thou
hast and give to the poor.” He promptly
arrested the preacher for insulting behavior. On
the way to the watchhouse the unfortunate
suddenly lost the power of speech. Given a paper
and pencil, he wrote, rationally enough, that he
was an ex-public servant who had resigned to
preach the gospel. He was taken to the Melb.
hospita] and there recovered Ins speech ; then lost
1 • ’ mi i ~A 4. \/r •
it again Then he wrote asking that a Minister,
whom he named, should be sent for to identify
him. The Minister came and spoke to the tem-
porary inmate, and while the latter was writing a
reply he suddenly lost the power to write, and his
cd draggled inanely over the paper. When
r r , ~b 8 . , , ~ , , ~
he faced the court next day as an alleged lunatic
he had recovered and spoke oleaiiy and rationally,
He asked if the New Testament, which he was
literally obeying, was supposed to be a deranged
publication. The court refused to argue the
One of the most remarkable features of the law is
the off-hand way in which it decides that any
literal adhesion to the New Testament is a sign of
lunacy.
A CHIEF JUSTICE’S HOLIDAY—AND
YET HE KEEPS IT IN CURL.
At the conclusion of the Webster insurance case
His Wax is left with a whole library of account
books and several volumes of MS. notes to thresh
out the issue.
Auckland (M.L.) has put up an Austra-
lasian record in the way of a tramway accident.
In one of its precipitous streets a tram car, whioh
had been brought to a stop, started to slip back.
The brake refused to act, and in the end the car
bolted down the street at 40 or 50 miles an hour,
and collided with another loaded car coming up.
Three persons were killed at once, and about 100
injured. This is the second time that Private
Enterprise has supplied Maoriland with a ghastly
tram accident. It is alleged that the driver had
previously reported the brake as not working
well, but that Private Enterprise, presumably
with a view to keeping down expenses, reckoned
it would do well enough. It is a way Private
Enterprise has.
Those people who threw heavy rocks
at the management of Auckland (M.L.) Costley
Home —kept going by a bequest left by thrifty
old man Costley, who died some years back—have
had their allegations more than sustained by the
Royal Commission set up to investigate. The
Commission paid a surprise visit to the Home,
and seems to have found a shocking state of affairs.
The bedding was filthy ; the aspect of the dormi-
tories desolate and comfortless; clothes dirty;
food bad, and not enough of it; drainage defec-
tive ; staff insufficient. Further, there was abun-
dant evidence that some of the parties concerned
had for years been afflicted with a chronic thirst,
and had taken an inordinate amount of whisky to
suppress it. The master and matron have been
dispensed with by the Hospital Board, but the
Commission, while admitting that these officials
were to some extent blair.eable, said they couldn’t
be expected to work the Home satisfactorily with
so small a staff. The report is really a strong
indictment against a bumptious Board of self-
satisfied gentlemen, arrayed in fine linen, who
have for years been bossing a disgracefully dirty
show without ever finding out what the place was
like.
A quaint tale of simplicity was un-
folded to theEssendon (Vic.) magistrates,
the other day, by a lady, who solemnly
assured them thxta hard-faced individual,
whom she charged with obtaining £1 by
false pretences, had called at her house a
day or two previously, when her husband
was out, and had been much moved on
being informed of his absence. The gentle-
man with the cast-iron countenance had, he
said, a “dead bird,” a real “moral,” and
though he was an entire strar.g< r to both
her and her husband, it was such a fine
opportunity for them to make a few pounds
with absolutely no risk whatever that lie
almost wept on the doorstep at the thought
of the lost chance. His grief so moved
her that she gave him £1 to “put on.”
He didn’t tell her the name of the horse
or cow or goat that was such a “moral”;
he just strolled away to “put it on”—and
she wanted her pound back, or condign
punishment meted out, or something. Then
the Law remarked that the money was
given to be “put on,” and there was no
evidence it had not been so placed ; in fact,
it might be on even then for all she knew ;
and the case was dismissed.
• * * *
That self - satisfied, sanctimonious
person, Justice Hodges of Victoria, declines
to take the repeated advice of Inspectors-
General and other competent authorities
as to the evil effects of solitary confinement;.
At last Melbourne Sessions he had to deal
with four cases of housebreaking and two
of false pretences. All the accused w T ere
under 28 years of age. His Honah, being in
a drastic mood, handed out terms of two years, with
nine days’ solitary; 15 months, with six days
solitary; three years, with nine days’ solitary ;
two years, with ditto; and nine years, with 96
days’ solitary. The last prisoner—a youth of 18
and the housebreaking-apprentice of the previous
prisoner—was practically a first offender though
there were four charges against him, but llis
Honah was in good working order by now and
promptly passed sentence of eight years gaol with
16 days’ solitary. A very solitary man is Justice
Hodges.
• • * *
The Anglican Church is an institution
which sets great store by its clothes, and it is
much more frequently troubled over questions
concerning the proper hang of its skirt than
about living up to the doctrines of the New
Testament. The days when its petticoat bulges
ungracefully are days of gloom for the church,
and it is ofttimes torn asunder by deep questions
relating to frill, and by bitter tumults con-
cerning guipure and insertion. The dark hour is
upon it again, and once more the church’s bangle
has got it down and bitten it, and the Sydney
clergy have memorialised the Archbishop about
“illegal vestments and other ornaments and
ceremonial” to this effect:
The toleration of these illegalities, on the one hand, is
alienating much sympathy, and is causing spiritually-
minded men of faith and prayer to leave our church, as
being unfaithful to its historical position in relation to
doctrine and ritual; and, on the other hand, is exposing
us as its ministers to the charge of breaking the law, on
the supposition that the Mass vestments are the legal
vestments of our church for the celebration of the Lord’s
Supper.
This break-up of “ spiritually-minded men ” over
the proper angife of the church’s crinoline is a
pathetic circumstance.
EVEN TO HIS PANTS AND SHIRT.
The proper way to have treated the crew of the
Petriana—according to the Freetrade press.
Christchurch (M.L.) Truth, at the tail
end of a few angry remarks: —
Australia, which, in its inebriated moments, declares
that it is “facing the dawn,” and is becoming a great
nation, irrespective of the fact that it is a large hard-up,
larrikin-land, populated by rabbits, drought and unsports-
manlike, un-British degenerates, who are a disgrace to
the human species.
All tins because there were some hoots at the sup-
posedly wrong decision of an umpire in a cricket
match. Yet there were unsportsmanlike people
in Maoriland who wildly proposed an indis-
criminate butchery of Boer prisoners. “ Whoever
attacks British territory must die,” howled a wild
white Jingo over there a year or two ago.
CHRISTMAS COURTESIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is something in the Christmas-tide so pleasant ;
’Tis the one benign hiatus in our lives.
It is lovely to receive a Christmas present
Which is purchased (with our earnings) by our wives 1
We awake on Christmas morn, as usual, snarling ;
But our wives are wearing faces wreathed in smiles,
And they murmur : “ Guess what I have bought you
darling ?
Such a lovely tray-cloth—quite the best of styles !’’
Or perhaps they buy a tiddly-winking tea-set,
One with cups which go a hundred to the quart!
That’s the kind of Christmas present that gets me set —
Cups that hold a thimble-full—you know the sort 1
Or, maybe, they buy a pretty front-room curtain,
To adorn the room their husbands never use 1
And they always seem so absolutely certain
We should thank them, that we cannot well refuse.
Oh, it’s always “ something useful” that they buy us ;
“ Something useful ” that’s no earthly use to us t
And we have to play the part of Ananias,
And express delight while inwardly we “ cuss.”
But of course it doesn’t do to be unpleasant;
And I’m growing weary of the barber’s shop,
So I’ve bought my wife a useful New Year present,
■ Which includes a pair of razors and a strop 1
W. T. GOODGR.
NEW YEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Is it friend, or is it foe,
Drawing near?
Is it weal, or is it woe
I should fear ?
Hear those bells—now loud, now low—
’Tis New Year!
Old, old Year, your course is run ;
Toil and heat—
Rising moon and set o’ sun,
Sour and sweet;
Passion blighted, task begun—
Pride—Defeat.
Gazing at the Year new born
Moans my soul:
“ Must I ever be forlorn
Miss the goal ?
Seek the rose, and find the thorn—
Lose the whole ? ”
Hark ! those bells—how loud they ring 1
'Tis New Year 1
Shall I sob, or sigh, or sing,
Laugh, or fear ?
What’s my Fate (I’m wondering)—
Joy ?—Despair ?
QUITS.


At the request of numerous customers I have
d jcided to keep my saloon open all day on Wedes-
days and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade that runs from George-street to Kincr-s\*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
4
irnffTT
The trouble about Melen Myers’ lost
jewellery, a great deal of which was found on the
premises of Moss Aarons, helps to rescue Mel-
bourne from total stagnation these times. Melen
Myers’ stock was insured against burglary, and it
■was burgled last October to the extent of £3200.
According to the daily paper report:
A detective said the aperture in the ceiling was llin. x
llin. Under the aperture was a show-case about 12ft.
Delow the ceiling, and it bore no marks of having been
Stood on, nor was there any trace of matches or candle-
grease about, and the room had not been disturbed.
Apart from the hole in the roof, and the back door having
apparently been forced open, there was a total absence of
any evidence such as might be expected to be found in
such circumstances.
As the hole in the ceiling was rather more than
half the size of a page of The Bulletin, Moss
.Aarons is understood to rely on his proportions as
evidence that he didn’t personally fall through it
into Melen Myers’ premises. The additional fact
that very few pawnbrokers would drop 12ft. on
to a show case without leaving some marks is also
in his favor here. Moss Aarons says he bought
the jewellery from a complete stranger, and has
rio recollection how much he paid for it. Anyhow
it was found on his premises, and he fainted
about six times while Melen Myers was identi-
fying it. As regards that portion of Melen
Myers’ jewellery which wasn’t found on Moss
Aarons’ premises, a good many items had been
pawned at different shops in Melbourne and
suburbs. Whether they were pawned by the
man who sold Melen Myers’ jewellery to Moss
Aarons for an amount which Moss Aarons can’t
locate just now, isn’t yet known. While the
detectives are on the case, they might try to find
out how two men come to be named Moss and
Melen. Moss is a name that might grow on
a man if he lived in a cool, damp spot, but Melen
is a mystery.
• • • •
At Temora (N.S.W.) a police officer had
to nurse the babies of some of the women voters
■whilst they marked their papers. Again, the
logical complement of the woman voter is the
woman policeman. The average male constable
won’t submit to having nursemaid duties added to
his already long list of woes.
• • * *
Somebody flew off the handle in the Age
office over the Coogee-Fortunato Figari collision.
After a touching reference to “the calni confi-
dence of life and the easy carelessness of mirth or
amusement” being “ broken into by the swoop of
imminent death,” the Age threw off this very fine
and large sentence just as easily as anyone else
might throw a speck of fluff off his ear:—
At this season of the year, which above all others calls
for the display of all that is tender, sympathetic and
generous, when the impulse to embrace the whole world
in peace and goodwill is strongest, and when we approach
nearest to that brotherhood of man which is still the
dream of poets, the sweep of Azrael’s wing casts a very
dark and impressive shadow on those whom it brushes
yet spares.
Then came a statement that the route followed
by the Coogee is “as well known to mariners as a
suburb*,n railway line is to an experienced driver,”
immediately followed by this sentence: “This
route is almost like the path leading to a seques-
tered nook, the meeting place of lovers.” The
concluding passages were sublime :
There was a sudden shock as of the irresistible meeting
the immovable, a grinding, crunching noise, like the
crash of an avalanche upon a forest, and all hearts stood
still for an instant, as the paralysing conviction was
flashed home to consciousness that a collision in the open
sea with all its fearful possibilities of fatality had
occurred. There seemed to be a moment of silence dread-
ful in its intensity, and then the catastrophe which had
come upon the steamer out of the mist was rendered even
more horrifying by the hissing escape of steam, like the
shrieks and moans of one in dying moments. The
passengers asleep rushed on declc, realising but imperfectly
at first the peril which surrounded them. They saw a
huge threatening shape enveloped in the fog, and
bewilderingly turned to one another for sympathy and
information.
THE SERENADE.
“ Vul.” : Wonderful the large quantity of
grateful bug tbe beio of romance usually gets,
while the hero in real every-day life gets a very
unexpected sort of reward indeed. At Adelaide,
t’other day, the first mate of a ship took his life in
his hands and dived to the rescue of one of his
seamen in the water. He got the drowning one
on hoard with difficulty, but had hardly time to
shake the sea from his whiskers before the rescued
man was on his feet forcibly inquiring why he (the
mate) wanted to interfere in what didn’t concern
him; then he- drew a knife and slit his rescuer
from shoulder to waist with a deep gash.
When arrested, later, he admitted the deed, but
softened so far as to allow that what pained him
most was the news that the mate would probably
recover.
Italy is not the only place which possesses
relics. In St. Patrick’s Cathedral (Melb.) the
relics of St. Flavia are carefully preserved. They
were granted to the late Bishop Goold on the
occasion of his first visit to Rome in ’SL
A WISE PRECAUTION IN VIEW OF THE PREVAILING EPIDEMIC.
BILLO (just introduced): “ Say, will you be my tom?”
SHE (cautious): “ Well, I dunno. D’ye generally shoot, or do yer on’y use the fire irons?”
Apropos the “ strike ” of Sydney Rabbis.
It was not until the thirties that the Hebrews of
Sydney associated for religious purposes. The
building first used as a synagogue still stands in
Bridge-street within one door of George-street.
In after years it was used as a store by D. S.
Gordon, and later by Charles Bath, who also kept
the St. John’s Tavern next door. Nowit is a
whisky shop.
* • • *
Boxing Day is a lost institution in S.A.
It gains no respect whatever. Even the name is
becoming obsolete. It has been absorbed into
28th Dec. —Commemoration Day. On that day
the best part of 100,000 people steer for Glenelg.
Here they roam aimlessly over a sandy piece of
Gulf shore, a patch of scrub, and a long jetty.
The chief attraction is an old gum tree to which
the first batch of colonists tacked a declaration of
dependence or something of that sort. This tree
is religiously examined on the 28th, and speeches
mad 3 round it. Nearly every Adelaidean has
seen it before, but a look at it breaks the
monotony which is otherwise relieved by a duck-
hunt, a swimming contest or something else
equally exciting. These 28ths of Dec. have
unanimously agreed to rise to over 100 in the
shade, and people who make the trip mostly swear
that they’ll never do it any more, but next year
sees another big crowd, another duck-hunt,
another big heat, and another desolate inspection
of the gum-tree.
“J.A.C.”: When the Salvarmy first
opened hostilities in Maoriland its War Cry
contained the following charming slab of uncon-
scious humor :
I believe Timaru will go ahead rapidly, for they are
fighting in the strength of the King of Kings. They have
got a drum-and-fife band, and, I believe, will soon have a
brass one— and then, woe to the sinners and sleepy pro-
fessors 1
“ F.” writes :
Gov.-General Tennyson has suggested _to Premier
Deakin that the time has arrived when the history of the
Australian contingents in South Africa should be written.
An excellent idea! Let the narrative run into as many
volumes as may be necessary to do the fullest justice to
the subject. Let it contain, inter alia, exhaustive tables
showing the number of farmhouses burnt, pigs
bayonetted, fowls scragged, pianos and pictures in-
cinerated for billy-boiling purposes, Bibles purloined,
&c. ; the number of crusaders employed in each exploit;
the rate of pay they received for thus furthering the
cause of “ Empire ” ; the number of bars they demolished
and peaceable citizens they bonnetted when they came
back to Capetown ; together with photos, of the heroes
who “ captured ” the whiskers and toe-nails of slaugh-
tered Boers as mementoes, and copious extracts from
“ letters from the Front ” in the Australian press, wherein
the valiant writers described their exploits, and said, “ I
enclose an ear.” Yes, let’s have the history ;it will be
interesting.
• • * *
Queen Alexandra’s prudent retreat from
her slightly burning bedroom has revived a num-
ber of stories of royal “escapes.” The funniest
story records a deadly peril that threatened King
Edward, when he was still Prince of Wales. He
was out shooting pheasants with a party of Peers,
and one Peer seemingly must have mistaken him
for a bird. Anyhow, “ the nobleman fell down in
a faint through imagining that he had actually
shot the Prince, as His Majesty was then.” This
was either a shocking exhibition of terror arising
from mental grovel, or a really remarkable
instance of presence of mind in a Peer. Perhaps
he deliberately planned Edward’s escape in order
to make the opportuni’/ for swooning. An earl
who could faint at the sight of his monarch’s
bleeding nose would probably get a dukedom for
his intense loyalty.
* * * »
A Victorian railway traveller writes :
The Australian characteristic of weird expectancy is
being strongly developed amongst Victorian railway men.
They are expecting a busy time this harvest; expecting
much from Tait “ when he gets settled down ” ; expecting
better times when Irvine goes, which they expect will be
soon ; expecting good special representatives to turn up
for them in Parliament; expecting to get the franchise
back after all—in fact, expecting anything. They are
only hanging on in expectation of better times ahead.
Amongst the locomotive men the expectancy runs on
particularly weird lines, which, if generally known,
would make the average railway traveller feel creepy
every time he went a journey. They are expecting the
“ lovalists” to smash up things generally as soon as they
are properly let go. Small things occur almost every day,
but not important enough to reach departmental ears.
“ What is wanted is a good smash and a few influential
people killed ” is admitted by all the employees. And
they are expecting it to come very shortly now.
• • • •
The institution of “ Potato Sunday” sheds
a beautiful sidelight on the poverty of the poorest
part of London. Potato Sunday, at St. Mary-at-
Hill, means that every member of the congrega-
tion is invited to bring a big potato —“ the largest
obtainable ” —for the starving and destitute in
the “Labor Homes of the Church Army in
Whitechapel and Ratcliff.” What sort of parish
must it be where the vicar takes up a church
collection of spuds for the benefit of the starving
and destitute in the “ homes” associated with the'
tabernacle!
* * * *
Anglican Canon Hopcraft, in Adelaide,
has been getting heavily on to “ pinky’’—the doc-
tored and colored wine that is sold at the
reputed quart. He says that it is fortified with
coarse spirit made from the refuse at sugar re-
fineries, and that, “beside it, malt liquor is a
harmless beverage fit for babes.” “Pinky ” made
a prominent and unpopular appearance in the
evidence at a recent S.A. inquest.
N.S.W, recently wandered in silence past
the 106th anniversary of the discovery of Twofold
Bay—where the Federal city’s port will be—by
Bass. Some day some histori an will do justice to
the memories of Bass and Flinders, _ hitherto
badly neglected. Some tin-pot politicians in
effigy occupy niches in front of the Lands Office
while explorers and navigators of worth are
forgotten.
» * * •
A man rushed into a Sydney newspaper
office, recently, and gave his name in full as the
saviour of one Jack Smith from drowning at
Coogee. It was found out that Jack Smith was
really rescued, but that the man who wanted him-
self advertised as the rescuer was miles away at
the time.
* * * •
“ G.H.” on dangerous ground :
There isn’t much of an attractive nature about the
“ dens of Venus,” as Lawson puts it; in fact, V. is a very
disappointing and disheartening person when discovered
in her lair—or anywhere else, for that matter. Those who
have trafficked much with the lady will agree that she is
mostly an h—less female, with a discordant voice and an
objectionable fondness for beer and scent. (Beer by itself
is all right.) Most Venuses have short careers and quick
ones ; the life is so mind-rotting and so lazy that their
value soon goes down from pounds to pence ; and very
few of her spend a couple of years in the business without
showing-up in the police court with an abraded eye and a
hat like a smothered dream. Once Venus gets to that
level she may be considered passed out; 12 months more
will, in all likelihood, see her dead, or next door to it,
although some tough specimens certainly battle round
for years. There are necessarily a number of Venuses
who are exceptions to the above rules, but they, as a
general thing, don’t have “ dens.” Instead, they have
husbands.
* * * *
A few items concerning the foreign and
colored friends of the Freetrade dailies, published
in one issue of Sydney Telegraph (28/12/’O3) ;
During a disturbance on the barque Queen, at Adelaide
on Christmas Eve, the mate was stabbed in the back by a
foreign sailor.
A serious disturbance between whites and kanakas
took place at Bundaberg on Saturday, there being several
hundreds on each side. When the crowds were dispersed
it was found that one of the whites was dead.
As the result of disturbances between Afghans at
Broken Hill two camel-drivers have been seriously
injured.
Another paragraph, same day, tells of the appear-
ance of Ah Shun, Ah Tong, and Lee Sing at the
Water Police Court, where they were fined £lOO
or, in default, three months’ imprisonment for
smuggling opium.
A NATIONAL INSULT.
“The German Emperor has declared loudly and dis-
tinctly that the Prussians rescued the British at
Waterloo.”
We call upon every young Australian to refuse
to be washed or take food till this foul stain on
Hingland’s flag is wiped out.
“ Ossian ” : The “dignity” of some oack-
block Mayors is something tremendous, especially
when they think that dignity spells millinery.
The IVTunicipal Council at Maclean (N.S.W.) sits
in an old tumble-down weatherboard shanty ; and
when I called in, the other night, I found the
aldermen sitting round an ancient table on dilapi-
dated cane chairs. But the Mayor was wearing a
weird baggy thing, which they told me in awe
was “ the robes ! ”
GET DRUNK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the crowding problems hammer on your brain
Their dreary ditty, “ Here we are again ”
When the Future’s only hue
Is absolutely blue,
Here’s a recipe for easing off the strain :
Get drunk,
Hog drunk;
Amble out and hold a revel,
Leave the morrow to the devil,
Get chockful, brimming-over drunk.
When the lady you’d have gambled on has failed,
And Life’s attractions consequently paled,
Leave her to the clever chappie—
You can bet he won’t be happy—
Then, to block the cheerful flow of thought entailed :
Get drunk,
Dead drunk ;
Go upon a mighty scatter.
What the devil does it matter ;
Get whole-souled paralytic drunk.
M.L.
J. BAPB.
WE’RE STILL ALIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’re still alive, another year
Speeds by, and yet we hang on here ;
And who can tell the reason why ?
Tell why we live and why we die ?
This tangled life is very queer ;
Perhaps we live to mop' up beer.
The long days, passing, mock and fleer,
The long nights hang their lamps.on high,
The pubs, close up and leave us dry.
We’re still alive.
We feel so very old and »ere,
What time the wan years disappi ar
In old-time garb, and pass us by
With lagging gait, and rheumy e; e,
And winking, greet us with a jeer,
“ We’re still alive.”
Tab.
THE GHORT.
GHOSTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out in the wind and rain
Summer lies dead,
Ghosts tap my window-pane
Joys that have fled,
, . . Crying “We come again!”
(Summer is dead!)
Hope with wide eyes of pain
Staring in dread,
Love by Wild Folly slain
Haunting my bed—
“ Kiss and make mirth again 1"
(Summer is dead.)
See, on the stormy main
Flashes the red
Signal of Morn again,
Silence 1 who said
Out in the wind and rain
Summer lies dead?
vio.
THE GIRL.


“ Argo ” : During the recent Federal con-
test a candidate had been holding forth on the
glorious future ahead of the Commonwealth, the
ties of Empire, the freedom of the people, etc.,
fora couple of hours. He sat down wiping the
perspiration from his face after a brilliant finale—
and question time arrived. There was only one
question. A free and independent elector threw
out his chest and asked if the candidate was in
favor of having a better water supply at the local
cricket ground. And the candidate replied : “ I
am !”
Laote. —If you are stout you don’t require it ;
if you are thin, you do. No one can afford to
become thin and lined. Lacte plumps the face,
neck, arms, and bust. If you wish to look grace-
ful send Bs. 2d. to Guest’s, 229 Bourke-street,
Melb., for Laotd (and postage). Advice free.
Sydney agents : Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand Arcade,
and Miss Cuthbert, 11 Yiotoria Arcade.*
it’s
$u* e
era^ d *
o*
“ YALAZE ” Russian Skin Food eradicates
freckles, wrinkles, sunburn, sallowness, acne pimples,
all blemishes. Guaranteed to improve the worst skin in
one month. Price 3s 6d and 6s, postage 6d. Miss Nellie
Stewart writes : “ Valaze has made a marvellous differ-
ence in my complexion; cannot praise it enough.”
Helena Rubinstein & Co , 243 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
FACILE PRINCEPS,
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY
Sv
“CRAVEN ETCES*
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.
m,
? W
14 irw4-/At TASMANIA
noiei ”,
Newly erected; Commodious;
Cuisine, Accommodation, Perfect.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 5, 1904.
My Dear Arini,—
Concerning good resolutions : I suppose most
people do make such things whilst the Old Year
is breathing its last. (And break them before the
New Year has had its first wash.) But of what
avail are 'good resolutions in' a place like Sydney
where the North-Easter blows for seven months
in the year ? That wind is the cause of
more demoralisation than original sin. To
do credit to yourself, and to discredit your
neighbors, you must have a backbone, yet the
majority of Sydneysiders crawl around in N.E.
weather with no spine and a conscience like a
squid. All the fault of that wind. Devoted
friends of mine who have been waiting three years
for an answer to their letters will please accept
this intimation to continue waiting until I can go
to live at Monaro. A writing bloque who has
just returned frbm there tells me that all the
winds are carefully dried and purified, and so
compounded that you can toil terribly and yet
think you are doing no more' than gathering pink-
tipped clover. In Monaro.our nor’easter becomes
as the wind that blew out of Creation’s dawn.
(What offers, Monaro, of a humpy for me with a
run for three bantams and a collie dog ?)
If you question a woman about her resolutions
for the coming year, you will find that they are
generally determinations to “save more.” They
have to do with economies in the matter of dress
and fares. She is going to take lessons in dress-
making, and so save dressmaking bills, and walk
where hitherto she has trammed. She will, when
in town, forego the 11 o’clock (a.m.) ice cream and
chocolate eclair, and afternoon tea and cream
cakes—especially if she is beginning to put on
weight. Occasionally you’ll hear of resolves to
lead the higher life, to be not only good but
great. But tread on the train of the resolver’s
dress, or catch her hair with a rib of your sum
shade, and the golden ladder that was being
reared to the stars dwindles to a pair of wooden
steps. Question a man about his good resolutions
and you'll get —chaff One told me he had
resolved to leave undone the things he couldn’t
do. As, for instance, he would not drink any
vodka, because it is not procurable here. Another
said that years ago he had made a good resolution
and kept it steadfastly, and that good resolution
was to make no more good resolutions.
There are rival claimants, I note, in all the
Australian capitals for the distinction of having
been the first woman to vote under the Woman’s
Franchise Act. Homer’s birthplace and the
truth about the battle of Waterloo are also vexed
questions, and will keep the first-woman-to-vote
item in countenance. Miss Vida Goldstein is
credited 'with being the first to cast the long-
haired and transparent-blouse vote in Victoria;
she is said to have waited some time in the rain
for the booth to open and to have entered on the
privileges of a fully-enfranchised citizen with wet
feet. Whether it was really raining at the time
or not I don’t know. But a gentleman named
Smith writes to a Melbourne daily to say that his
daughter, Miss M. J. (Mary Jane, presumably)
Smith, was the first to vote at St. Kilda. She
was in the booth with himself at four minutes
before eight, and had voted and left the booth by
two minutes after eight o’clock. I’ll back this
lady’s claim. She has a name that is as frank as
daylight—Mary Jane Smith, and she has a father
with a stop-watch. But wasn’t there any lady
who burgled the booth at 6 a. in, and thus got
ahead of all competitors?
Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan is well and eloquent
again. The growth on the tip of his Ministerial
tongue was caused by a burn from a cigar, so
among New Year good resolutions of a lot of our
city men figures the resolve —“Don’t put the
lighted end of your smoke into your mouth ! ”
The Minister went through the operation for the
removal of the growth without chloroform, and
his enemies need not rejoice in any sense, for he
is as fit for action as the Jap navy thinks it is.
A friend of mine, an old Tasmanian warrior
whom I’ll call Mulligan, once had an argument
of so serious a nature with a threshing machine
that he had to have both hands amputated.
Mulligan watched the operation standing erect
and with his pipe in his mouth. Six months later
he was sentenced to a term of imprisonment for
violently assaulting the police. Hooks had been
fixed to Mulligan’s foreshortenings and with these
he had given two policemen a terrible mauling.
By analogy the Owe’Sullivan should be shortly
guilty of a terrible verbal assault on Joseph,
What a lot of industrial enterprises demand, in
their inauguration period, a human sacrifice ! The
latest instance is that of the death of young Baird,
one of the managers of the. Manly water chute.
He was a fine-looking man, of oyer 6ft., im-
mensely liked, a noted athlete and cricketer, and
his death was the result of being struck by a
descending boat a few days after the venture was
officially opened. Mr. Baird, the dead man’s
brother, is manager of the sports’ ground,' and it
gives one heartache to hear the unknowing chuters
ask him in cheerful tones “ how it all happened.”
Shooting the chute seems to have caught on with
the public, which likes to take its pleasure at
lightning speed. Boat after boat is filled as fast
as they can be hauled up, and you, standing at the
end of the lake and watching the (townward race,
may get some emotions and amoral from your obser-
vation. Chuters are mostly young men and women;
but I saw one brisk old bird of quite 60, with a
wife of about as many years, snatch the fearful j
joy quite gaily. That’s the kind of human who,
at 60, can eat a breakfast of cold roast bullock’s
heart, and then run for his train and nob drop
dead.
Apropos of chutes, the Baker’s Creek mine at
Hillgrove has a giddy tramway that is just as
good as a chute. Should you ever happen up that
way, the management, if approached in the proper
spirit, will let you voyage in a truck down into
the gorge, where all is gloom, and the sun sets at
2 p.m. You simply spend four or five minutes
spinning down some rails on the side of a rock
wall in a vehicle, and you wonder all the time
what keeps the vehicle from frankly leaving the
wall and dangling at the end of the rope.
“I am not a Scotsman, but I have done my
best to atone for the mistake (of being an Irish-
man) by marrying a Scotch wife.” That, in effect,
said Captain Purefoy, R.N., in his response for
the Navy, at the official luncheon of Highland
Gathering on New Year’s Day. He gave a cue
at which Brigadier-General Finn and Minister
for Education Perry simply snapped. Both owned
to Scotch wives, and when Mayor Hughes, of
Sydney, rose to speak a voice breathed o’er
the banquet, asking, “Haven’t you a Scotch
wife ? ” But the supply of Scotch wife (with Irish
husband) seemed to have run out as a luncheon
gag and there was nothing left but to insert her
in the toast list, and she was enthusiastically pro-
posed by a gentleman who is, perhaps, married to
a lady who hasn’t a sprig of heather in her whole
outfit. Frankly, though, no wonder a husband
thinks much of his Scotch wife. She is clever and
calm, and leads him by the ear as tenderly as
animals are led, and runs his household with
brains and tact. If you want a superb study of a
Scotch wife and mother read a story called
“Generalship.” That’s a Scotswoman’s forte —
generalship.
New gaud Mayor S. E. Lees was “inducted”
last Monday. A number of aldermen and officials,
among them the Inspector of Nuisances, met Mr.
Lees on the Town Hall steps and paid him com-
pliments so hot that the palms and other decora-
tive plants were, scorched. Old gaud Mayor
breathed a fervent “Heaven be thanked,” and
went home to pack his holiday grip.
A siffleuse, Miss Aileen Neill, a Sydney girl, is
attracting some attention locally. Her musical
“mouths” have mostly been “made” in private,
but lately, at a suburban concert, she whistled
Mendelssohn’s “Spring Song” with such effect
that listeners vowed they heard the twitter of
nesting birds and saw the bursting of buds into
bloom. A lady who can whistle buds and blos-
soms should have a future before her.
Members of two well-known squatting families
were attached in matrimony lately at Bris-
bane, when Miss Louisa Frances Nicholson,
eldest daughter of the late Mr. Frank Y. Nichol-
son, was married to Mr. Robert MacMicking,
second son of the MacMickings, of “Marius,”
N.S.W.
There was a butt-end aspect about New Year
races at Randwick. The gowns looked mostly
early 1903, and the wearers had not yet assumed
the 1904 expression of face. Mrs. Forbes-Sempill,
the bride whose husband (the son of a lord !) is
something better than a stoker on board the good
ship Clampherdown, was one of the few women
who had an overture instead of a finale look. She
was in pale-blue crepe de chine, with her fair hair
flanted low on her neck. Two men helped to
righten things—the one by means of bright-
yellow kid gloves, green satin tie, and a General
Booth nosethe other with his trousers turned
nearly -to his knees, so that he might display
chessboard hose.
Miss Sylvia Blackstone gives a farewell concert
at the Town Hall on the 12th inst. The contralto
will be assisted by a strong combination of artists.
Plan for reserved seats is now open at Paling’s.
The matinee hat has long survived well-
merited odium, but the denunciation piled upon
it is as nothing to the language aimed at the
cricket hat. The cricket hat obscures alike the
just and the unjust. It was seen in large num-
bers at the test match, and behind it was
usually some small and purple person—the
color of the person due to struggles to evade
the screen. The fashionable head-gear, as
worn by the Naicest, is large and round and
agricultural. It totters well back, surmounting
a colossal wad of hair, and when the wearer
carries her head erect, the effect is that of a large
Japanese umbrella. The real cricket-girl, of
course, doesn’t wear anything worse than a flat
Panama. The wearers of the agricultural mon-
strosities are invariably those whose ignorance of
the game is abiding and colossal, and who think
that dear Mr. Foster is so good-looking, and that
poor Mr. Warner got bowled because he is bald.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“ A quaintly irreligious incident enlivened the
Xmas morning services at St. Paul’s Cathedral,
Melbourne. A very drunk citizen picked his way
carefully along the centre aisle, and at last found
rest for the beery in the vice-regal pew, which
was about the only place that had any seats to
spare. The happy Ohristmaser behaved with per-
fect decorum what time he was taking the bear-
ings of the show, but presently he nudged Lord
Dick Nevill in the ribs and wanted to know-what
the auctioneer (meaning the parson) was ‘ chinnin’
about.’ The evident discomfiture of poor Lord
Dick and the tittering of the neighboring wor-
shippers brought a verger to the rescue. He
closed the incident by a master-stroke of
diplomacy. Beckoning with his forefinger, he
whispered, ‘ Come and have a drink, it will do
you good,’ whereupon the intruder arose and fol-
lowed the heavenly messenger off the premises,
and was seen no more.
“The glory of the State Parliament has de-
parted. The prorogation of the Victorian House,
on Xmas Eve, with the Waxcellency upholstered
up to vice-regal degree for the event, failed to
draw the frivolous. The precious pink cards for
the ‘ dress circle ’ seats, once fought for so gall-
fully, went begging.
“ Speaker Beazley’s cards for tea and cream
puff after the prorogation were a surprise. We
are more used to the Council President doing all
the table honors on these occasions. But Bachelor
Beazley hosted bravely, and begged womenkind
to forget the heat of the rooms, which would
have boiled an egg without hesitation.
“ The decline of feminine interest in the doings
and shows of the local Parliament is a matter
of melancholy reflection to that evergreen
functionary, George Jenkins. Who marks the
flowing silk beard of the Clerk of Parliaments
now? Who throbs at the sound of his musical
delivery of the Prayer ? Who notes the curve and
outline of his portly form in silken hose and court-
dress? George is still sunny-tempered and jests
in the old volatile spirit with the old Legislative
bucks, but fashionable interest is cut off, and the
‘ dear boy ’ feels it. There’s only one thing for
the great Parliamentary Institution of the Past-
the book of reminiscence. What stories could he
put forth, what tales unfold !
“ With sorry eyes behold any ‘ Block day ’ this
holiday season the red-faced, dusty, limp Phyllis
from trie country as she meanders among the crisp
oharmers of Collins-street. She carries much dust,
and her new hat is askew. She knows nought of
the town-girl’s tricks. Does the mere man sup-
pose that spry Maud of the city remains immune
from the winds and the temperature all the stuffy
day ? Not a bit of it. The absolutely new, not-
been-used appearance of the wily one is due to the
mirrors, and the pin-tray, the crimpers, and the
Eower-puff of a boudoir attached to Melbourne s
ig china shop. For a penny—providing she san
occasional purchaser of a pot or pan (but no one
asks questions)—Maud is privileged to enter this
little apartment and get her tongs heated and her
complexion adjusted. Phyllis meanwhile goes on
collecting grit and heat rash.
“Why are there ever any men employed in
ladies’ baths ? Not half the losses of teeth,
switches, or other sundries would happen to mar
Beauty’s holiday if women only were appointed to
dole out the towels and the zebra-marked gown-
lets, and take charge of the detachable items in a
bather’s personality. For to women a woman
may confide these things, but not ordinarily to a
man, though a smart She did create a great fuss at
the baths of a bay resort the other day on discover-
ing that the beautiful chestnut switch which
crowned her top-knot had been stolen. Another
woman would sulk and shed the inward tear.
But not this one. She talked of her switch with
vehement candor. It wasn’t recovered, so for
two miserable days the robbed one lived in an all-
encompassing sunbonnet. Then she took the boat
to Melbourne to replace the stolen treasure.
“Ada Crossley, singing at that huge Exhibition
concert, looked extremely graceful, even when
viewed from a great distance. To appear willowy
and decorative from afar is no small achievement,
because small prettinesses of face or make-up
count for nothing. Jewellery or similar dress-
dazzlements also fail to score. Sweet smiles and
winning ways can only travel a short journey.
Unless a woman has ease and play of deportment,
she bulks as a doll or a wax figure to the straining
eyes of the far-away crowd. But Miss Crossley,
on Saturday nisrht, when scanned from the out-
posts, was pleasing to watch as a tall, white
lily, swaying lightly in the breeze. Her
appearance, indeed, scored more effectually than
her rather tired voice, which just shows that one
never knows which card will come in useful.
Ada’s best friends in the early days can hardly
have anticipated that she might upon occasions
find herself stronger in the suit of Beauty than
that of Song.
“ The mobs of women who flocked to hear A.da
on the cheap audibly predicted all the evening
that their favorite would ‘ break down when she
comes to “ Home, Sweet Home.” ’ The Crossley
‘ tears’have been as distinctive a feature of their
owner’s campaign as Melba’s ‘tempers,’ in their
time. So far as popularity goes, lachrymosity
seems a better line than ferocity. Other ‘ pro-
perties ’ used with success by our two sweet
singers were Melba’s irritated throat, Ada’s dis-
located ankle ; Melba’s stricken-down father, and
Ada’s invalided mother.
“At her last concerts the visiting Contralto
took to posing with symbolic flowers, opportunely
handed along after the early tootles. She would
warble an oratorio strain of great piety with a
duster of church lilies laid on her devotional arm.
“Ada Crossley saves up the hundreds of
screeds, begging letters, and business notes that
flood her rooms while settled for a few days in any
place. She keeps them for perusal during next
train journey. On the trip to Sale one beggar
gave the contralto a genuinely hearty laugh. The
writer opened with a few compliments and season-
able remarks. Then she proceeded to business.
She wanted to hear ‘the gifted of the gods,’ the
‘big-souled singer’ at one of her concerts. She
could afford a few shillings for the treat —but the
dress! She had no dress. And (O, ingenuous
Eve) as she was about the same height, the same
complexion, the same build as the star, one of her
discarded toilettes would be gratefully received.
“ Miss Conway (the pink, plump, dimpled niece
of Argus editor Watterston) gave an ‘at home’
last week in return for numerous attentions
lavished on her since her return from England.
The Writers’ Club, that quietly sc"d institution,
mustered in force —the hostess is on its com-
mittee, and one of the earliest members. Also
welcomed back from the ‘ Big Smoke ’ was Miss
F. F. Elmes (‘ Lino,’ of the Argus).
“The public is painfully amusing. When
George Lauri stifles back the word ‘ D n!’ in
the ‘ Country‘Girl,’ with a desperate pull on him-
self and a look of horror, the audience seems
nearly tickled to death. But when Rose Mus-
grove comes pat out with the wicked swear word
in that slick song of hers, telling the tale of
assorted partners, the house giggles but faintly.
The stage d—-n is something to be hinted at,
like lovely woman’s underclothing. When boldly
disclosed it loses its humor.
“ Mr. Pat M'Caughan only survived his gentle-
eyed wife two months. Two children remain—
Mrs. W. Williams and Mr. Ernest M'Caughan.
W. Williams is the alert young barrister who had „
a seat in the State Parliament for a recent term. '
Mr. E. M'Caughan is a widower, his wife having
been one of the lovely Collins girls of Hobart.
Her death occurred a few months after the
marriage. Since that time Ernest M'Caughan
has spent most of his time aboard his yacht in
Australian waters.
“A great old character passed away during
Christmas week in the person of Mrs. Outtrim, of
Maryborough, mother of the Deputy Postmaster
in Melbourne, of the ex-Minister with the fighting
front and the lamb-like disposition, and otheis
more or less known. At the age of 93, Mrs.
Outtrim played the piano, cracked a good joke,
and wrote a fine, clear signature, with flourishes.
She never outlived her good-humor or her industry.
“ The Melbourne girl hasn’t rushed to Tasmania
this year with the impetuosity and high hope of
former hot seasons. She mostly spreads herself
over the giddy resorts where Jill is surer of her
Jack, and the moonlight music of the waves
brings joy to the hearts of mixed couples—at
Lome and Sorrento, for example, where leading
hotel proprietors go in for skilful manoeuvring
whereby the she abounds in equal numbers to the
he-sojourner. There is extreme wisdom in an
arrangement of that kind.
“ Melbourne’s present Anglican bishop appa-
rently sees no point in leaving the purple and fine
linen of life to the laity. ‘ Bishopscourt,’ re-
cently renovated to suit his notions, was thrown
open t’other afternoon for the inspection of sub-
scribers, whose combined offerings have housed
the Lowther-Clarkes (four in family) in a mansion,
boasting 20 bedrooms, and chic with all the snap-
piest fittings. The drawing-room paper, one of
the new tapestry designs, has alternate panels of
white and palest-green, chosen with a vb-w to
cooling down the Lowther-Clarkes during our
shocking Victorian summers. O laity, laity ! cast
your pale-green paper, your punkahs, and your
cool cellars into the balance, and your tribute will
still fall short of the deserts of your Shepherd-in-
Chief, carrying his climatic cross as if it were a
crown, leading his flock in arid regions, separated
only by several hundreds of miles from the
tropics 1
“Vida Goldstein, airing her ideas in Vanity
Fair (a little Melbourne monthly which struggles
for acceptance by women readers, and is financed
by a drapery firm), said, “ I see no reason what-
ever to doubt that the proportion of women voters
will be as great as that of men voters.’ She
was right in her surmise, but wrong in assuming
that skirted voters, as a rule, would 1 follow the
skirts.’ They disbelieved in Vida to about the
same extent that the average woman disbelieves in
the feminine doctor. Where her own sex is con-
cerned, the woman-worker is not less Conservative
than your finest madam.
“The rumor goes round pertinaciously that a
widowed railway identity is once more a
bridegroom. There’s nothing surprising about
that part of the story, but the lady nominated as
bride introduces into the affair whatever of unex-
pectedness accrues thereto. A staid, elderly
spinster, the daughter of a sound, old church clan,
once well dowered with property of various kinds
—it was vaguely supposed that failing a bishop or
a dean, matrimony for her was branded 'infra dig.
The alleged successful suitor is not much like a
bishop or even a deacon ! The connecting link,
so the story goes, lay in the fact that, like Adam
and Eve of old, the pair were mutually interested
in landed property.
“All the world over, a snob must be a snob,
but on the testimony of travellers, the Australian
snob is one of the worst, thanks to restricted
outlook. A flagrant example was to the fore at
one of the English cricket matches. She was one
of Melbourne’s naicest, and branded all the outer
world as ‘ people one doesn’t know.’ Whenever
she saw a pretty girl, and there were dozens of
them, she exclaimed in her aggressively high-
pitched voice,'‘Just what I always say, the
prettiest girls are nobodies .... people one
v doesn’t know.’
“Cabled that Mrs. Arthur Mahaffy has pre-
sented the world generally, and her husband
particularly, with a baby girl, at Erlescliffe,
County Dublin, where the Mahaffys maintain,
according to repute, some fair family traditions
and an engaging brogue. As Miss Enid Boyd
Mrs. Mahaffy was well-known to Toorak.
Tours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


WEARY, WAN AND WORN.
“Four years ago every trace of good health started to leave me,” says Mrs. Warren, 39 Campbell-street,
Paddington, Sydney. “ Every part of my bo ly sufFered with weakness. I couldn’t look at food, and my head
was always heavy and achy. At night I couldn’t sleep, and in the morning I was fit for nothing. I was too
tired and weary even to dress myself, and it was too much trouble to put one foot before the other. My face
had a care-worn look, and my lips and gums were bloodless. Every day T got weaker and thinner. I really
felt that I would never be well, for medicines did not do me a bit of good. At this time my husband was over
in West Australia, and he wrote and told me to get some Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People without,
fail. He said that the people over there swore by them, for they actually made new blood, and were the finest
tonic one could get. There and then I got some from Pattinson’s, and, after taking the third box, I knew I
would get all right. New blood swept through my veins and brought me fresh strength and high spirits. Then
I began to eat heartily, and to feel bright and energetic. In a word, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills gave me new
life My work is now a pleasure, and I take a great interest in everything. Looking at me now, you would
never think that for years I was barely able to crawl about. And all my present good health I owe to
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.”
2s. 9d. a box ; six boxes, 15s. 3d. Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, N.S.W. Accept No Substitute.
w
PERSONAL ITEMS.
In S.M. Herald of 26/12/’O3 there were
hine separate “ in rnemoriam ” notices relating to
persons drowned on previous Boxing Days.
Perth Bankruptcy Court, the other day,
discovered that an insolvent who for years had
passed as a Scotchman was, in fact, a Chinaman.
Died last month, good old Brisbaneite Tom
Finney, founder of the “ big block,” Edward and
Adelaide streets, and at orie ~ti%ne member for
Toowong.
At a recent marriage at Eldorado (Vic.)
the ages of the bride’s father and four of her other
relatives present totalled 400 years—an average of
80 years apiece.
Kalgoorlie Sun amused itself by calling
De Largie “half-educated, time-serving, coarse ;
a bullying, brainless, brawny braggart; a windy,
wastrel wag-jaw,” and so on, before the elections :
and then he topped the Senate poll.
Westralia's most successful commercial
woman, who manages a carrying and goldfields-
Btores business from Perth, lately found time to
sit for her second Trinity College musical examin-
ation, passed with honors, and gained an asso-
ciateship.
Of the N.S.W. Senators one is certainly
wealthy—Mary Ann Gould; and two others
are suspected of wealth. The remainder, were
there no Parliamentary pay, would probably be
competitors in private life for a living at about
Owe-Sullivan’s minimum wage rate.
Rowland Rees, ex-legislator and one-time
Minister of Education in South Australia, who
had been an inmate of a hospital for some months,
came out just before Xmas. He was once
reckoned the most eloquent man in the local
Assembly, but most people have now forgotten
him.
Stated that one of the wealthiest of Aus-
tralian bookies lately attempted to “stiffen” him-
self. There comes a time in the lives of all such men
when big feeds, big bottles, fat cigars and buxom
barmaids cease to spell happiness, and, not having
any other intellectual resources to draw upon, they
wish they were dead.
PROPERLY SNUBBED.
“The Acting-Consul General for Japan, Mr. K. Iwasaki, has received numerous
letters, telegrams, and visits front Australian officers, privates, medical men, engineers,
nurses, &c., who saw service in South Africa, offering their services in the event of
hostilities occurring between Japan and Russia. To all letters up to the present time
replies have been sent thanking the writers for their kindness, but Mr. Iwasaki says that,
during the past two weeks, there has been such an increase in the numbers of these
offers that he asks permission to state through the press that, although the Japanese
Government will naturally feel much gratified to learn that the offers have been made,
they will, in his opinion, not be disposed to consider applications for enlistment from
foreigners.”— Daily paper.
(The face in the corner is White Australia blushing.)
“ Here, yellowy! — we'll help you to fight that white ’un!”
“ Thanks !— I want no help from foreigners !”
In a drawing in London Punch, 30th Oct.,
1901, Phil May sketched himself as a patient con-
sulting a sawbones. He asks : “ What would you
think of a warmer climate for me, doctor?” The
reply is—-“ Good heavens! that’s just what I’m
trying to save you from ! ” The sketch is perhaps
the only one in which May drew himself without
a cigar.
The brilliant, but erratic, George Fisher,
M.H.R., once the brainiest man in the M.L.
House of Reps., has just been committed to the
Waitati Inebriates’ Home for the second time.
Fisher, who is now the mere wreck of his former
self, goes under lock and key for 12 months, and,
if not released before then, will have to miss next
session of Parliament.
Recently deceased G. W. Rusden, who
died aged 84, was seeing through the press a work
on Shakspeare at the time of his death. He
landed in Sydney in ’34, and in the 40’s was a
contributor to the Atlas, with Robert Lowe and
Archibald Michie. He retired on a pension 20
years ago. As a hardshell Tory he could not be
beaten even in Victoria.
When Dr. Mackellar joined the N.S.W.
Senators at the close of the last session, five out
of the six were residents of Woollabra munici-
pality. Senator Millen was the exception. Geo-
graphically, the State’s representation was circum-
scribed. Mentally, very much ditto. And with
the substitution of J. P. Gray for R. E. O’Connor
it is more than ever ditto.
Mrs Creswick (widow of the late H.
Creswiek, of Liewah station, N.S.W.), now living
at Hawthorn (Vic.), was the only child of the late
Dr. Alex. Thomson, who accompanied John Bat-
man from Tasmania to Port Phdhp m May, 30.
Mrs. Creswick, then a child and her mother, were
the first ladies of the settlement of Melbourne,
arriving soon after Dr. Thomson The Settle-
ment ’’was in the habit of going to tea with Mrs.
Thomson in her hut on theYarra. In those days
one lady could invite all white Victoria to ,ea,
Died lately in Europe J. W. lyas, for-
merly registrar of Adelaide University His
SJher was for vears on London Times staff and
bt own front names, John Walter from
one g of the Times proprietors. Later, after a
largely continental education, he was successively
tutor to Walter’s sons and a member of the Times
Tn Australia he had a mixed life—as soft-
ln |" n for which he was utterly
goods- warehouseman, _ tor ag regjgtrar of the
“ewUniversity ‘ He keted as examiner in modern
“nguages a* well as registrar, though French was
his specialty.
Governor Le Hunte, of S.A., has been
still further showing his versatility by driving
a motor-car on a 30-mile trip. No damage was
done ; but he does net nearly approach the record
of the lordly Kintore, who used to drive a railway
engine whenever he got the chance. Kintore, for
some unknown reason, took lessons in the art of
hustling the locomotive when he was young.
George Ernest Roberts, who defeated
Kyabrarn’s candidate for the Richmond (Vic.)
State Parliament seat, vacated by Trenwith, is a
small lean barber with a loud voice. He has
sprinted like a comet into public notice, having
been quite unknown to Melbourne Laborites
eighteen months ago. He is a total abstainer, is
aged about 36, and is the first pledged Laborite to
represent Richmond.
The Gothenburg wreck, about the most
sensational in Australian history, because, with
101 other people, a Judge was drowned, was re-
called the other day by the death of Thomas
Cockrum, the last of the passengers to be rescued
from the water after the ship went down. Cock-
rum was a bushman, with all the bushman’s
horror of the sea; and that was his first voyage
(he had overlanded it to Port Darwin from Ade-
laide) and his last.
It is likely that Batchelor, of the S. A us.
Labor party, will succeed Chanter as Chairman
of Committees in the Reps. —he often acted as
deputy last session and made a success of it.
Batchelor is the only Laborite who has had a long
spell as Minister ; under Kingston, he was in the
Education Department, in which he had begun his
working life as a pupil teacher. Speaker Holder
was also in the S.A. Education Department, and
stayed in it long enough to be well up among the
head-teachers.
The Owe’Sullivan, writing from hospital a
Xmas article for one of the Sydney papers,
moralised :
A brief meditation led me to the conclusion that, in
addition to politics, there are other openings by which
a man may do gpod to his fellows —such as in the cause
of religion, charity, morality, and education, and hence-
forward my efforts will be devoted to these and similar
objects, as well as to politics.
That last phrase “ as well as to politics ” blighted
the hope, aroused by the early platitudes of the
sentence, that the Owe intended to give up the
Treasury lOU and let the London Cohens know
him no more.
Anglican Bishop
Harmer recently
told an Adelaide
audience that if he
had not been able
to get scholarships
at Cambridge he
would have started
life afresh in Aus-
tralia as a bound-
ary-rider. It may
be so, of course, but
anything less like a
bushman than the
small and specta-
cled bishop is not
often seen.
“ Petramos ” :
Years ago a beer-
house - keeper i n
Adelaide adver-
tised that he had
secured the ser-
vices of Kate Kelly
for his front bar.
Naturally there
was a big rush till
the fraud was dis-
covered, and it was
found that the lady
didn’t have any
bushranger
brothers at all. On
the contrary, she
only had one mild,
9st. relative who
worked at the gas-
works.
Old Colonel
Bell, “the silver-
tongued orator,”
for many years
Consul for the
United States at
Sydney, is a notable
figure in the streets of Wellington (M.L.). He
still wears the broad black felt hat, the ditto frock
coat, and the evening-dress white tie on a low
turned-down collar, and is yet a man that is twice
looked at. Still tall and erect; age is whitening
and shrivelling the once handsome face, and a real
big lie makes him shake visibly. The Colonel
talks of settling down in Maoriland.
The anniversary of the State of South
Australia was celebrated at Glenelg on Monday,
Deo. 28, when the Mayor, H. J. Pearce, held a
reception of ancient pioneers, of whom 300 were
present. Amongst them was Mr. W. Hodges,
the sole survivor of the brig Rapid, who came as a
boy attached to Colonel Light’s staff. Light,
Surveyor-General, arrived in the Rapid on the
18th of August, 1836.
GAMES UP!
To-day the old State Parllament (Vic.) will virtually go out of being for ever.— ADE.
Dispersion of a well-known gang. Been infesting the place for months.
All the members known to the authorities.
Miss Long, the clever speaker and staunch
champion of Women’s Rights in Melbourne, is of
about the same age and height, and has the slen-
der, willowy figure of Miss Vida Goldstein, but
she has none of the stylish, fashion-plate appear-
ance of her fascinating little compatriot. A
simple-looking young woman of the people, as she
faces her audience in a homely (probably home-
made) pale-green dress and brown chip-straw hat,
Miss Long recalls Anna Dickenson, the Quaker
girl, whose eloquence so materially helped the
anti-slavery crusade in the U.S. 40 years ago.
“ J.A.C.” : Thus Bulletin (24/12/’03):
A once famous whip, in the person of Edward Devine
(“ Cabbage-tree Ned” of the golden days) returned
recently to Ballarat after 36 years on Westralian fields.
Can there have been two ? I knew, 20 years ago,
in Dunedin (M.L.) an Edward Devine, known as
Cabbage-tree Ned, who bore the reputation of
having been a famous Cobb’s coach driver, and
who also derived his sobriquet from his hat. He
was then barman and manager of the bodega
attached to Donaldson’s Glasgow Pie House,
which was a hotel, not a pie house. [The Bulle-
tin also hears of another Cabbage-tree Ned in
Tasmania. Apparently the world is full of Ned.]
Melbourne’s only Marshall Hall now has a
residence just alongside Kew lunatic asylum.
Every morning he receives a visit from a maniac
who regards himself as a goat, and considers it one
of the essentials of his existence to hang his head
over the musical Prof’s, fence and murmur “ Ba-a ”
at frequent intervals. The Conservatorium boss
finds this a great aid to musical study, and
encourages the lunatic by responding “Ba-a” at
the bottom of his stentorian bass voice. A bond
of mutual sympathy has thus been established, and
the Prof, says that he would miss his pet lunatic
very much in the event of that visitor becoming
an alderman, or following out his destiny in any
kindred way.
One of those old pioneers, of whom the
M.L.C. person prates so much, lately handed in his
checks in Melbourne, having reached the end of
his resources. This was Robert Pearson Harris,
who married a neice of Gov. Latrobe, and, away
back in ’53, had held an auctioneer’s license issued
in Sydney by William Lonsdale, treasurer for the
district of Victoria, permitting the licensee to
auction “in the colony of New South Wales and
the town of Melbourne on payment of a fee of
£29 3s. 4d.” A diary found in the dead man’s
possession showed an entry: “Entd. H.M.p.
service Ist Oct., 1840, aet. 15. Arrd. Victoria,
14th Nov., 1851.” A later memo, was more
significant and pathetic, “—— employed new
man. Cheaper and younger. And lam thrown
out of employment.” The old man (he was 78)
was too proud to crawl to Irvine for the measlv
pittance he calls a pension.
“ Marat” writes in disgust:
Sneaked into Sydney School of Arts the other night;
heard that a rebel named Haynes was plotting against
the Commonwealth. Pictured him as a man like the
Duke of Monmouth, and wanted to see him. There were
100 people inside, mostly there out of curiosity, but I
could detect a few solemn-faced men who were support-
ing Haynes. I knew he had no show if he were running
it on solemn lines '; Cromwell was the only man who
could rebel solemnly. A rebellion wants poetry, life and
gaiety. Everybody-was watching the door, afraid the
police might rush in at any moment and arrest us all as
conspirators. Then the boss insurgent came out on the
platform, and I was disgusted. He’s got no appearance to
work up a rebellion on. He’s a short fat man, no pose or no
style and hisface iscomfortableandcireular. Hereminded
me of a Donegal horse-dealer. I like a rebellion, no
matter what the cause is, and I felt real sorry. Haynes
couldn’t stir up a decent dog-fight. If he had hired a
picturesque, dashing man to act as figurehead he might
have made things hum. I tried to see him after the
meeting to propose mvself as figurehead, but the door-
keeper "told me he had fled. He had probably heard the
police w re after him.
Thus the London
correspondent of an
American journal on
the violent subsidence*
of the popularity of
various “heroes”:
The extraordinary
changes of public feeline:
in regard to public ido's
which have manifested
themselves since the
“ late unpleasantness ”
in South Africa make one
feel that Rritish loyalty
to old-established favo-
rites is confined to the
statre and the concert
platform.
At Plymouth and Ports-
mouth, Loth towns of
soldiers and sailors, the
pictures of Lord
Roberts have been re-
peatedly hissed during
the last f, w weeks w i e
those of other generals
over whom London went
mad for a whole week
were received in frigid
silence. Lord Kitchener
comes in invariably for
loud cheers and General
Buller for a perfect storm
of applause.
Templeton, one
of the Dreary Four
ran by the Tory crowd
for the Senate in Vic-
toria, is said to hold the record for a casual shout.
It is alleged, with every appearance of untruthful-
ness, that when he commanded the 2nd Battalion
infantry he stood treat for the whole battalion
one wet Saturday afternoon. When the glasses
had been emptied Templeton was asked to fill in
his cheque for £25.
Horace Buckeridge, who made a fatuous;
attempt to get from Maoriland to America in his
marine toy, the Kia Ora (“good luck” —the
irony of it !), and died as the result of accident,
was only 28 years old, but his life was crammed
full of adventure. He treated death-chances very-
cavalierly—looked upon danger with contempt,
in fact. He served in windjammers on the
’Murkan coast, accompanied private expeditions
in quest of gold in New Guinea and North
Australia, put in two years at a pearl fishery,
eighteen months in S'Africa, fighting under
Buller and Methuen and being wounded twice j
joined the Antarctic expedition at Capetown as
laboratory assistant; returned by the Morning;
accompanied Captain Voss in the fragile cockle-
shell Tilikum, paddled over the fearsome
Waimangu geyser with guide Warbrick, and
finally evaded the customs people who wanted to
stop the Kia Ora, and found his grave at last.
Young Sowden, who accompanied Buckeridge,
and who doesn’t know how he ever managed to
return to Gisborne, was formerly fourth officer of
the Niwaru, and is the son of a one-time skipper
of the Delphio. He is only 20 years of age.
LOGICAL.
CANDIDATE FOR PAELIAMENTARY DISHONORS:
“G-G-Gentlemen, m-my p-p-political opponent
is-is-is a worm. He-he-lie hasn’t a leg to
stand on ! ”
THE WHOLE OF THE VAST AUDIENCE: “All the
more reason why he should have the seat.”
Queensland Federal elections give the
following nations a show in the Australian Parliar
raent : Three Australian Reps. (Groom, Thom-
son, and M‘Donald), four Reps, from the Cold
Country (Wilkinson, Bamford, Culpin, and Page)*
one North of Ireland Scotchman (Andy Fisher),,
and one Welshman (Edwards). As Senators,
England, Ireland, and Scotland have a man each
in Turley, Givens, and Stewart. As regards
occupations, journalism is an easy first with five
(Wilkinson, Bamford, Thomson, Stewart, and
Givens) ; there is one barrister (Groom), one
doctor (Culpin), one miner (Fisher), one wharf-
laborer (Turley), one watchmaker (M'Donald),.
and one draper (Edwards).


m
m
-Pi
O.
Itillih
iZ
r
THE LARGEST
Photographic
aJL*. flanufacturers
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
375 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY,
and at
260 Collins-Sfc., 37 Rundle-St., 90&92 Qiieen-St.,
Melbourne. Adelaide. Brisbane.
a
D
HARDY BROTHERS’ STOCK OP
Ladies' Silver Blouse Buttons
is very extensive, ranging in size from a 3d. piece to 2s. The selection includes
the daintiest “New Art” Designs, others being delicately enamelled.
Cases containing J-doz.,
from
13/ to 68/-
Write for Complete
1904 Catalogue
showing over 1000
illustrations of their
new stock.
BEC&.
Various patterns as above, 13/- to 20/-
B HUNTER STREET, BRISBANE LONDON.
Aboriginalities.
OUR MAINSTAY.
THE AUSTRALIAN FARMER (contemplating yield):
“ The Guv’ment gives us the seed, we sets it,
and there’s a glorious harvest. I tell you,
we're the backbone of the country, we are.”
“ H.A.M.” : Was butchering in the coun-
try once, and owned a very intelligent sheep-dog.
He followed me everywhere, and whenever in the
slaughter-yard we happened to be running the
entrails of the sheep to get the fat from them, the
dog would amuse himself chewing the stuff we
had finished with. One day after doing a bit of
this business, he appeared to go a little silly, and
kept whining and running round the yard.
Following morning his tongue was hanging out of
his mouth, and he could not get it back again. I
thought he must have taken a bait, and treated
him accordingly ; but without any good result.
On the second day the tongue was perfectly black.
I opened the poor brute’s mouth, and could see
that although the tongue was black, the root of it
was still its natural color. The third day the
whole tongue fell off. The cause of the whole
trouble was a thin string of gut which had got
round the tongue, stopped the circulation, and
eventually cut the tongue off. After getting rid
of the diseased tongue the dog was as fit as ever,
but it was queer to see him drinking—he would
fill his mouth with water, hold his head back hen-
fashion, and gulp it down.
» * * *
“ Pyalla ” : Be “ C.O.’s ” remarks on low
wages in southern portion of N.S.W. Eastern
Division (B. 24/12/’O3). Have just walked from
Bega to Sydney, and have come to the conclusion
that the cookies in said district are the meanest
employers of labor in the State. ‘‘Teat-pulling,”
as it is termed in the district, is about the only
work obtainable. The questions, “Can you
milk?” and “How many cows an hour can you
fut through ?” are still ringing through my ears.
f one is an expert milker he is offered from 6s. to
Bs. a week and tucker, which consists of bread,
spuds, treacle and salt meat. As regards the
swagman, he very seldom plods his way along the
South Coast of late. What few I met told terrible
tales of the niggardliness of cookies, specially of
those hailing from the North of Ireland, of whom
there are many. As regards harvesting, the
swagman has no chance. He may obtain a little
“tussocking” at a contract price which pans out
at about 3s. a day. As for the professional sun-
downer, his cake is dough on the South Coast and
he knows it.
• • • •
“ Big Mary ” : Edward S. Sorenson, after
painting a wonderfully vivid and accurate picture
of dairying delights in the Big Scrub, writes in
Xmas Worker :—“And yet the cow is never mis-
called or misnamed like other animals. She is
always a cow, with the most irate milkman—
mostly with qualifications.” Jusso, and quite so.
But other animals (and inanimate objects) are often
maliciously miscalled and malevolently misnamed
in deep dishonor of the cow. I often ask back-out
coachdrivers and teamsters why they call a
troublesome horse “ a blanky cow,” while no one
ever calls a curse of a cow “a blanky horse.” The
answers are rarely complimentary to the cow.
Mulga Mat said : “Itud be fearful complimentary
to call a cow a horse; the worst prad’s bettern th’
best cow.” Even a refractory bullock is con-
temptibly and crimsonly cow-called. The worst
that Australians can call anything, living or dead,
is a cow. N.B.—This is a fair cow of a day—with
a violent dust-storm, flies, heat. Yes —it is a cow.
* * * *
A vigorous advt. in Otago Daily Times :
WANTED KNOWN.—CATS are destroying my
” chickens wholesale. As lam living in the midst
of a Christian community, and they all deny owner-
ship, I intend after this date to Shoot, Trap, Snare,
and Lay the most Deadly Poison for either Rat, Cat
Dog, or DEVIL.
J. DOWNIE,
Macandrew-road, South Dunedin.
The man who lays poison for the Devil isn’t afraid
to take on a large contract.
• * • *
“ Ess ” : To the correspondent who in-
quired about bitterns:
Australia has five bitterns, of which the little bittern
(Ardetta minuta) of E. Australia is about the smallest.
The small head, with its long, sharp-pointed beak, closely
resembles that of the New
Holland darter (known in
the bush as “the diver.”)
Coloring varies; breast
feathers on some are dirty-
white ; back of neck and
shoulders, chestnut; back,
brown to black. Others are
streaked white and brown on
breast, and streaked chest-
nut and brown on back and
wings. The little mangrove
bittern (Butorides javanica),
of N.S.W. and Q., is a trifle
bigger than a water-hen, and
has a thin black crest reach-
ing over the neck. The
yellow - necked bittern (£.
Gouldi) of N.S.W. is about
the size of the Nankeen night
heron, with a long, needle-
pointed bill. The neck is
also long and streaked with
yellow ; body spotted brown
to black. The big bittern
(. Botauruspceciloptilus)is the
largest of all, and inhabits
Australia, Maoriland and
New Caledonia. The gene-
ral coloring is brown,
streaked and mottled.
These birds are nocturnal,
sleeping through the day
among the reeds and man-
groves. At intervals as they feed about the marshes and
swamps at night they emit a deep, drumming or boom-
ing noise. Some of the rails make a somewhat similar
sound.
• • • *
“C.A.W.”: Be the laconic Chow. Met
a Chow cook in Riverina wearing a swag and a
look of weird expeotancy. He produced a scrap
of paper bearing the name of a station. On
learning he was miles off the track, he merely
said “damn,” and proceeded to camp for the
night. (N.B.—Haven’t seen a sketch in the
Bulletin of a Chow “ traveller ” yet. This one
had bluey, nosebag and billy.)
* • * *
“ Spol.” : Surprising is the number of soi-
disant ex-army officers one meets among the
knights of the billy and bluey. Recently met
three in one day, all of whom had “been in crack
regiments.” They all wore corks. One’s gram-
mar left a bit of a doubt in my mind, while
another had the name of his alleged regiment
wrong side up. They belong to a crack regiment
now, anyhow.
The Royal
Magazine Nov.,
has unear-
thed a second De
Rougemont in
“ Sundowner,”
who writes of
Australian
snakes. Some ex-
extracts :
On a snake farm
the buck reptile se-
dulously assists his
doepartnerin bring-
ing up their “ clut-
ches ” of young
snakes. . . . and
helps in the most
intelligent way to
put the budding
brood in the way
they should go. . .
The snake is sub-
ject to many com-
plaints. ... We lost
many on our farm
on the Willondilly,
through what
seemed to be a sort
of reptilian appen-
dicitis. . . .
I had a snake pet
once—a girl gave
him to me on my
birthday, when he
was only about four
feet long—and in
time he grew to
nearly eleven feet.
He was the most
tender-hearted rep-
tile I ever came
across. He followed
me in everything ;
if he saw me laugh-
ing, he wriggled and
squirmed about the
floor, and flapped his tail in glee on anything
that would yield a found. Then, if I sat gloomily
in a chair, thinking of some oncoming drought
or other serious trouble, he would glide up to me
gently, put his tail in my hand—just as your girl or wife
will place her hand in yours when you are worried about
anything—and throw sad glances of sympathy at me out
of his little beady eyes. . . .
That little snake 1 You should have seen his gratitude
when I scraped the sticky web from his snout and let him
breathe freely once more. He crawled round about me,
flapped his tail gleefully on the boards of the floor, and
occasionally crawled over to a tin can that stood in the
corner, and struck his tail wildly against it, by way,
nnparently, of giving loud or musical expression to his
0/. . . .
ouuietimes when he wanted to play and saw that I
had no hairpin handy, he would crawl off to where one
of the grown-up girls was sitting, climb up the back of
the chair, and make a dab at her hair to secure one of
the coveted playthings.
* * * *
“ Wanderer” tells what happened to him
at Gobbleturkey (or something like that):
I walked to the store and dropped my swag outside,
whereupon a scared-looking girl retreated to the interior,
and, when I entered, she looked as if she would like to
get under the counter for safety. “ I want a pen, miss,”
I said, but she only stared blankly at me, and then dived
under a bag-curtain hanging in front of a door. “He
wants a pen, mum,” I heard her say. “ A what ? " said a
woman’s voice. “ A pen, mum.” “ Oh, ah 1 ’E must be
one o’ thim shearer chaps. Tell ’im we ’aven’t no pens,
nor sheep neither.” “ I don’t mean a shearing pen,” I
explained to the girl; “I mean a pen to write with.”
Again she disappeared, and again I heard the voice:
“ Well, you just tell ’im we don’t keep such things. No-
body don’t never want to write in this town.” Advance
Australia 1
A JOKE ON THE OLD MAN.
JIMMY: “’Ere’s a lark; the ole man'll ’ave this
’ere tree cut down in ’arf a minute, an’ ’e
don’t know I’m up on top.”
ASIATIC AUSTRALIA —
A PHASE THAT IS
PASSING- AWAY.
(Federal Parliament is now absolutely dominated
by the White Australia party.)
“ Quandong ” writes from Westralia :
Now that the two Grand Old Men of the Aboriginalities
page, M'Oooey and “Scotty the Wrinkler,” have passed
away, I wish to make myself famous in your columns. I
am a drill-sharpener and blacksmith under the spreading
kurrajong, with a bough shed to keep off the afternoon
sun (the kurrajong keeps off the morning rays). It is 38
miles to the nearest pub., and four months since I drank
anything stronger than painkiller, but intend going on
the bender at Christmas at Bulong, or some other big,
lively town. I sharpen drills all day, and my muscles are
strong as fin. hexagon steel bands. It takes me all my
time to get through 45 per hour on my own, week in and
week out, for eight hours a day. You can hear my 22in.
bellows roar, while my mates look in at the open door
and watch the flaming sparks that fly into my eyes, and
theirs too, if they are not quick. I challenge some of
those Kalgoorlie experts to do 70 per hour. One man
says he can do 120, and I am certain such liars will not
be heard singing in Paradise. I defy any man to sharpen
more than 50 per hour for blue diorite. I can only do 45.
I am honest—my brow is wet with honest perspiration. I
earn whatever I can in the shape of overtime, but get £4
a week regular, and look the whole of this district in the
face as have strapped up nothing yet, although owing a
few pounds elsewhere. Sharpening is hard toiling, with-
out much rejoicing. Each morning sees J ton to begin ;
each evening sees it all in the skips ready for the night
•hift. Good-bye 1
• e • •
“Z.”: On November Bth, 1902,1 hiked from
Horsham to Minyip (Vic.), and counted 78 blades
of grass, 138 dead sheep, 14 dead horses, and
about twice as many that would have been dead
but for the desire to save cartridges. The rest of
the scenery consisted of sand and then more sand.
This year, at the same time, I re-visited the same
place. The grass formed a barrier 4ft. or sft. high
on each side of the track. Not an animal to be
seen—too fat to walk about. Wheat too thick for
the reaper to cut, and a grin on every cocky’s face
like the opening of an incubator.
•. • • •
Meston, without whose permission no
Queensland aboriginal can legally and truly die,
has been counting up bis friends. In 1896 he
thought there were 25,000 of them; but he is
pretty certain now that there were not nearly as
many as that. Last year there were only 8341
who could be reached by the annual blanket, and
he doesn’t think there are more than 5000, or
6000 at most, outside the blanket-area. That
makes a total of 13,000 or 14,000. Seventy years
ago a rough count gave 150,000 at least. At this
rate of going, another 25 years will about see the
end of them.
• • * *
“ Sparemedays ” : Be strong men. . Con-
stable Horn, of Maryborough (Vic.), once, for a
wager, carried successively 65 bags of wheat from
waggons on to a stack 15 feet high, having to walk
up a steep board to the top of the stack. I saw it
done. Let any man, even if accustomed to carry-
ing wheat, try this feat without resting between
times (Horn went straight through with it) and he
will see the size of the business. Horn once
offered to carry lOcwt. of flour, strapped round
him, 500yds., but was too well known to be
taken on.
THE BALD-HEADED MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There were liars in the bar
(As there generally are
When the pub is not deserted
And the beer is flowing free).
They were telling yarns of luck,
And of heroes and of pluck,
And I heard them all politely.
Then I thought, “ It’s up to me 1 ”
So I started in to tell
Little yarn I knew quite well,
And although it wasn’t truthful
It was true as all the rest.
And they seemed quite satisfied
When I graciously supplied
All the details that they asked for—
They were really quite impressed.
Then a silence like a pall
Fell upon those liars all
As they brooded o’er the story
That had knocked their fiction flat.
Till a small bald-headed man
Rose and murmured, “ Well—you can
Ask me anything you like, sir ! ”
And the small man stroked his hat.
“ Now, you said you heard a scream,
And there, in the foaming stream.
You observed a maiden drowning,”
Said the small man who was bald.
“ Then you swam quite half-a-mile,
And you saved her with a smile,
And her father gave her to you
On the next night when you called.
“ Now I think I heard you say,
In a quiet and modest way,
That it was in February
Of the year one nine nought two
That you did this noble deed ? "
“ Yes,” I answered, “ if 3'ou need
Any proofs I’ll gladly get them ;
But—the story is quite true !’’
But the small man bowed his head.
“ That will do, my friend,” he said,
As he wandered towards the doorway
With a deep, heart-breaking sigh ;
“ I would really be afraid
To—er—doubt you got the maid.
But —the river where you did it
At that period was dry ! ”
Straight I seized a vacant chair
And I flung it through the air ;
But the bald one wisely vanished,
And was never seen again.
If we ever chance to meet
I will slay him in the street.
Now—l tell the truth or nothing ;
But I hate bald-headed men.
N.S.W.
KODAH.


%
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A CURE FOR KIDNEY AND BLADDER TROUBLES.
Mr. LUKE VAN AM AN, Rockwell, Texas,
writes :
“ For some years I have been afflicted with ASTHMA,
and Jayne's Expectorant is the only medicine that gives
me relief.”*
Miss Nellie Stewart writes : “ ‘Valaze,’ Russian
Skin Food, the most wonderful nourisher and complexion
beautifier, made a marvellous improvement to my com-
plexion. Cannot praise it enough.” “ Valaze,” Dr.
Lykuskis’ Russian Skin Food, eradicates wrinkles,
freckles, tan, sunburn, blackheads, eczema, pimples,
roughness and all blemishes and eruption of the skin,
rendering it soft and transparent. Guaranteed to im-
prove the worst skin in one month. Price 3s. 6d. and
6s. ; Posted 6d. extra. Mademoiselle Helena Rubinstein
Dept. D. 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Send 4d. stamps
for illustrated guide to beauty.*
Ladies’ f-plate
Movement,
Solid Gold Case,
£6 6s.
sd
THE LADIES'
"Fx*&R” Watch
, «-t £6 6s.
Is a |-plate Lever. Is jewelled in 16 holes.
Has a Ruby Roller Jewel.
Has solid heavy 14ct. gold case.
Has brequet hair spring. Has compensated and adjusted balance.
It is guaranteed for 15 years and kept in order for two years
(breakages excepted) without charge.
It will stand hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
WHERE TO STAY IN SYDNEY ’
ADAMS’ HOTEL
riEET riE AT THE HARBLE BAR.
PITT STREET.
“Ciro”: From the des-
cription of the night sounds
heard by “J. Carew” (B.
1.7/12/’O3) I would say they were
bittern booms right enough.
The bittern of southern Victoria
is of a brownish color, something
between the eagle and sparrow-
hawk, with a wealth of feathers,
especially on breast and neck’
which make it look as big as a
101 b. bustard, but it is in reality
only half the weight. In swampy
country along the coast between
Williamstown and Geelong they
were very numerous in the
seventies, and their drum was a
familiar sound to me for many
years. It is impossible to locate
them by sound—they are the
ventriloquists of the bird tribe,
and are as elusive by day as by
night. They are said to be
related to the crane family, and
their wading habits are similar.
They seldom or never come out
in the open, and with the aid of
the best dogs I found them diffi-
cult to put up. On watch, all
that can be seen of them is the
head with bill stuck straight up
—like Governor Clarke’s chin —
just above the rushes where they
abound. They are only to be
found singly, and when you are
recognised as an enemy, they
duck down, and, in a crouching
fashion, disappear as swiftly as
a land-rail. They show great
fight when wounded. In those
lulled I noticed the larynx was
always extremely large, and the
cavities of the throat very broad
and open.—[A very reckless
correspondent suggests that the
booming sound “John Carew ” inquired about
was the howl of the porcupine—perhaps blowing
through its quills.—Ed. B.j
THE LATE G. W. RUSDEN .
Australian historian and many other things.
Photo, by Maull & Fox, London.
“ Hiphen ” on contrasts :
It was one June evening in Paris that I saw a gendarme
hook a man out of the Seine at the end of a long pole.
It was a touching sight when the rescued Frenchman
recovered sufficiently to thank his preserver, who vai
throwing chests close handy. He hurled himself on to
the uniformed bosom, flung his arms round the gold-
braided neck, kissed his rescuer on both cheeks several
times, sobbing and babbling hysterically the while. The
dignity of the scene was somewhat marred by the
gendarme’s anxiety to keep his beautiful uniform dry.
Still he seemed to enjoy it, and after a few minutes of it
I had to go and have an absinthe. . . . Near Bairnsdale
(Gippsland) I saw a cocky pull a mate out of the
Mitchell at the risk of his life. They both stood dripping
on the bank, looking somewhat sheepish. “Damn
cold!” observed the rescued man. “My oath,” mut-
tered his rescuer. Then in stolid silence they adjourned
to the nearest pub to have a drink—the rescuer paying.
To all curious queries as to the moistness of their
condition, they preserved a stony silence. Outside they
shook hands with eyes averted bashfully. “So long,”
said one. “ See yer Sunday,” said the other. Then
they parted, looking very- uncomfortable and self-
conscious. But there was more in that hand-grip outside
the bush hotel by the Mitchell than in all the frenzied
embraces by the Seine. That was a twelvemonth ago.
When another few years have passed, if both are alive,
some further casual remarks may be made about that
wetting—certainly not before.
* * * *
“ M.G.” : Concerning the slipshod methods
Of the average Australian cooky. Travelled from
Melbourne to Wangaratta last week
witli a successful Gippsland farmer,
about to extend operations to the
Northern areas. He related a Gipps-
land experience. Having used ensi-
lage with profit, he induced his next
door neighbor to experiment. A silo
was built and filled, but when the
time came for using its contents the
neighbor announced that when he
opened it he found all the ensilage
s \ rotten. He added that he knew
if all along that the thing was no
v, good, and blamed the other for
putting him on to such a notion.
Five years passed, and the
stickler for antediluvian methods
met the usual fate of his kind, and
was sold up, his farm being pur-
chased by my travelling companion.
In getting things into order, latter
determined to clean out the old silo-
for further use. Opening it up and.
scraping off the outer portion of the
abandoned ensilage he found inside
the whole of the contents sweet and
fit for use after six years waiting.
The original owner had simply looked:
at the outside and jumped to the
conclusion that the quality was the
same all through.
* *' *
“D.H.R.”: At Walgett(N.S. W.)
there is an artesian bore which was
put down two years ago at a cost of
a few thousands. The water from
the bore is flowing to waste ; in one
place into the river, which is almost
a banker. The other night a eon-
. . Bagration destroyed a large hotel and
a printing office and machinery. A few yards;
of hose, with the water laid on, would avert all
such calamities. The people hold meetings and.
discuss things, and decide to reticulate the town,
with bore water. Then they go home and sleep,
and wake up and wonder what day of the week it;
is.
* * * *
Q.” : After the authorities had fixed up a.
sensible close season for black duck, the down
south so-called sports worried flabby Bent until:
he altered the opening day back to Dec. 27th,
within a week of the old slaughter-time. In a
couple of years a black duck will be as rare as the;
moa, but Bent’s tribe appears to be increasing,,
worse luck !
* * * *
Wonderful are the ways of the West..
The tin and bagging metropolis of White Cliffs,,-
where they used to bring in mud on camels and
sell it at 3d. a look, has been dropped on by a water-
spout or f something equally wet, and the remains- ‘
of the place had to be gathered up in a jug. A
Broken Hill coach has been washed away at a°plaoe;
where there had been nothing but sand for ten;
years. There have been drowning accidents at.
the Barrier, which was lately getting its water by
train. Various people have been bushed in the
grass, and it is impossible to find them except by
cutting down the vegetation with axes. A
new grass-climbing dog is being invented
to hunt for lost prospectors, and horses are
standing up on their hind legs to see over
the top of the verdure. And a new class
of western writer is springing up—the one whose
hero is bogged on the Old Man Plain, and is
rescued a.t the last moment by Bill with a lifebelt
or by Jim swimming across the desert, after
which they are married and live happily ever after
• —with a boat tied to the front verandah in case of
emergencies. This hero and his wife have ten
children, who grow up to be the best swimmers in
Milparinka.
* * * *
The one hufc and the solitary public-
house on the Broken Hill-Menindie route are
now praying hard for dry weather. The mail
coach gets in two or three days behind time ;
the drivers state that roads have not been in such
bad condition, or creeks so treacherous, since
1892. Along the river, around and below Menin-
die, the accumulation of many years of sand has
been washed away, exposing aboriginal and other
interesting curios. On the site of one of the old
Burke and Wills camps the Govt, official collected
several mementoes of the explorers—relics that
had been hidden for over 40 years.
A buah-puh. episode:
The tall man had just finished relating his pet atrocity
to the guileless selector from Dingo Flat.
“Don’t look like a cannibal, do I?" he asked, insinu-
atingly, and the cocky gazed into the depths of his beer
and shook his head. Then the tall man proudly wiped
the froth off his draggled moustache and told it all over
again.
“Yes, as I tell yer, we was overlaifdin’ in ’B2, an’
some’ow we got off th’ track an’ lorst in th’ ranges. We
’ad only a few days’ tucker left, an’, at th’ larst when we
couldn’t stan’ it any longer, we draws lots an’ I won an’
’ad to eat me pore ole mate 1 ”
The cocky lit his pipe again for the fifth time, spat
doubtfully on the floor, and shook his head. The tall
man noticed the action and fiercely accused him of
doubting the story.
“I believe yer!” murmured the cocky-, soothingly.
“ I know yer tellin’ the truth 1 ”
The tall man seemed dazed, though pleased. Putting
a grimy hand on the trustful one’s shoulder, he patted it
caressingly. “ How’s that, ole boy ? ”
“Becos!” muttered the dreamer from Dingo Flat, aa
he watched a soaked fly drowning in some dregs. “Becos
I was th’ man yer eat! ”
Then the fight began.
MRS. O’HOOLEY’S MISAPPREHENSION.
MR. B. SEEDY: “ Why are you waitin' here so
long, Mrs. O’Hooley?”
MRS. O’HOOLEY: “ Sure, an’ didn't that po-litical
chap tell me to come to the poll early? But
divil a one o’ me knows what to do now I
am here."
THE DYING SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLRTIN.]
The sunset filled the western sky with splendor,
A glorious end to Spring’s last dying day,
Low, light clouds trailed their rosy garments slowly
Through halls of clearest azure, far away,
Until the light departed sure and swiftly,
Leaving the afterglow all chill and grey.
Only a few large stars were gleaming brightly,
A half-moon looked from out a darkening sky,
A gentle breeze was stirring very lightly
Among the crimson roses climbing nigh,
As Summer softly stepped, with half-closed wing,
Into the palace of the dying Spring.
vio.
KATULSEN WALKER.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Mo notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Ben Bolt: The Bulletin grew tired of the pre-
sent N.S.W. Labor members because they quite forgot
their democratic principles. That’s all. And you ask if
it would have them put the Oarruthers crowd into power ?
Do you think they must always be putting one incapable
or another in power ? Let them reach out for power
themselves, get a sane, vigorous, solvent financial policy,
throw out See and co. by their own vote of censure, and
try if they can’t attract enough progressive men to give
them a majority. If they can’t, let them go into direct
Opposition, and make an effort, with a decent financial
policy, to carry the country at next election. They spend
their time in condoning an awful waste of public money,
and in return they get no concessions nowadays—except
the Fitzroy dock scandal... .Zizi: Sorry none quite up.
....Arthur C. : We will hand the poetical eulogium to
Lawson himself. Too wild and woolly for print....
The Rover : You “ can let us have some more.”
Waste of time, if not much better than sample....
W.W. : Will print “My Queen.” O.H. : “Between
Whiffs” a good idea marred by some incoherent lines....
Bill Nathan : Quite hopeless Emma: “Storm-tossed”
spoiled by last verse... .Longjack: Your verses would
imply that all this country lives for is to get a letter from
England by the mail D.S. : “Episode” very scrappy
....Gadfly: “Jealousy” fine idea, but too carelessly
strung together K.W.: Sorry to say only one good item
in last batch of verse....A. Needham: Some splendid
lines in “ Convention and Progress,” but not enough of
them... .Robert 0. (Vic.): “Echo” is pretty, but it
doesn’t say anything new or vigorous Sagittarius:
Has some good lines, but in the main a tired poem
laboring over a dry plain of fact Ch. : “Just a Line”
nearly arrived. The weary persistence of the refrain
killed it... .W.J.S. : “Poet’s River” very g00d....01d
Bill: “Vengeance” not up. The other two yarns will
appear in a somewhat condensed form in “ Aboriginali-
ties” Riv. : “Black Sheep” good idea not too well
worked out... .Ghost: Very good. Will print C.:
“Deserted” not quite up to mark. Considering “Lover”..
W.W. : It certainly wouldn’t be a “ reform ” to have the
Senators elected by the House of Reps... .Queenslander :
Your story of how you saw a Supreme Court judge take
off his trousers suppressed from motives of public policy.
.. ..Narine : Yarns seem to have points, but your treat-
ment doesn’t bring them out E.P.L. : Soul yarn
amusing, but not exactly fit for any but smoke-room
publication.... A.C.T. : England is too far away to profit
by our pictorial advice... .A.G.A. : You make of pig-lead
a heavy subject D.B.G. : After much hesitation
“ M‘lntyre’s Christmas Duff” didn’t arrive J. W.
Lane : Sorry you don’t find The Bulletin “ supply your
wants.” One thing you want badly is a knowledge that
your letter was insufficiently stamped.... Mamie I:
Though it isn’t quite up to publication mark, it is a very
creditable first attempt, and certainly justifies you in
trying again G.E.R. : Altogether too crude and
juvenile... .Pat D. : Your inexperience is too manifest.
Jenny J. : A possible derivation is from “ subdued,”
in allusion to the sad-colored raiment affected
by the original American dudes Spectre :
“ Would we like some more?” Emphatically, no !
Dicky Bird: Not very hopeful W.B. : No; Switzer-
land has no language of its own, except the Romansch
dialect, which is confined almost to a single canton....
Dan. W. : Accepted matter does not necessarily appear at
once... .Weka : Yes, it.has humor, but you greatly lack
verse-5ki11.... Brenda : Couldn’t see any promise in it
W.S.E. : “What’s the matter with it?” Everything’s
the matter with it 1... .B.S. : Send you a copy when
it appears. Alas, William, it will never appear....
E.F.D. (Ch. Ch.): You send us a document of which we
have half-a-dozen copies already, and say “please return.”
And you don’t send stamps for return Baldo:
“ What is The Bulletin’s religion ?” Well, the principal
members of the staff, reckoning the faiths in which they
were brought up, include a Congregationalist, a Pres-
byterian, three Anglicans, and one Roman Catholic.
: These six people .have all fallen away more or less
from their early convictions, and the combined religious
ruins make The Bulletin creed.... Copra : “We might
alter it to suit us.” Suits us better to return it....
Ethelbert K. : “ As You Like It ” is a very scrappy little
idyll V.H.G. : Pretty in a sweet, gentle, blossomy
way, but not intelligible... .iQuidam;: Good stuff enough,
hut for Heaven’s sake don't ‘,6e so long-winded O.H. :
Considerable poetic feeling, hutpo shape qr consecutive-
ness.... Ah Kay: Thanks for .good wishes. Items sent
are hardly worth print... .J.R. <W.A.): Duly received,
hut none fit for use.. ..Glen R. : Stiff apd unwieldy...’.
S.T.T. : Cut out, and send to Bulletin accountant....
The Tiger : You are a very tame and inoffensive tiger.
The stuff is weak throughout.. ..W. Mac. : Would do, if
you could get it into a quarter the space... Solidarity:
Condensed, your letter amounts to this : (1) The Bull®,
tin is a fool and a rogue to ask the Labor party to oppose
borrowing, because in doing so it would “ have all the
forcesof capitalism arrayed againstit.” (What betterideal
could the Labor party follow than to deserve that array?
You seem to think that it is a good thing for the L.P. to
have the forces of capitalism arrayed with it.) (2) The
Bulletin is a rogue because it will not support the Labor
party when it does wrong ; it is a fair-weather friend
which only backs the party up when it is in the right.
(As to the facts, but not as to the rogue conclusion from
the facts, this is quite right.) (3) The Labor parly
doesn’t care a curse for what The Bulletin says. (Then
why all this fuss?) (4) Not until the Labor party is
actually in power can it “abandon the execrable
borrowing system.” (“ Execrable” is exactly the.
word, and Tiie Bulletin execrates all it knows
how. Then you curse vigorously because The Bulletin
denounces what you yourself styie execrable.) J.W.E.
(Ohillagoe) : John Norton is quite eligible for a
British peerage and a seat in the House of Lords ; practi-
cally any male subject is W.H.F. : Good natural
musical quality, but workmanship inferior.. . .K.M.B. :
Faintly humorous J.S.O. : Same old mining-pals yarn.
....Wopsle: It’s of but indifferent quality, but we
should not like to tell you not to try any more... Judex :
No ; shouldn’t recommend you to persevere. You have
obviously no metre-ear.... S.W, : Pretentiously dull. ..
N.T.M. : No use to us whatever.. ..Binder : The line you
are thinking of is probably—“ And hiving knowledge
with each studious year,” which is Byron's—referring to
Gibbon, the historian... .Loben : “ Bubonic Rat ” not up
to mark R.S. : Dog yarn no brightness... .H.H. : Not
enough in it Unsuitable : J.F.W., Jumbo.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
John H. : Too much like a Bulli*in picture of some
months ag0.... A.S. (S.A.) :If your age is as stated, there
should be a prospect for you—if you can get efficient
training... ,M. Fraser : No use sending us as original our
own joke, published only a few months ago Gouger :
Nothing very unusual Bauhinia: One was rejected
promptly ; the other was thrown out with hesitation....
H.W.T. : Drawing hardly up Gibson : Unsuitable.
Yes, we pay for suggestions. Send claim to the ac-
countant, Bulletin office F.J. (S.A.): Joke not good
enough. Drawing has a good deal of promise about it.
....A.F.M. : Crude A.O. : “Epicure” hardly good
enough joke W.J.S. : Doubts about originality of
“ Crow’s Nest.”
VULCANA, Rickards’ New Strong Woman.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney & Melbourne.
“ The fire of speech becomes the ashes of
cold type.”
At a ,sale held lately at Cobbora (N.S. W.),
a 32-year-old horse brought £l4 10s. The old
moke became famous some 28 or 30 years ago by
swimming the Talbragar during a heavy flood,
and has lived on that reputation ever since.
On the premises of an East End, London,
dealer 6,749 rotten eggs were recently found. The
ingenuous proprietor explained to an incredulous
and unsympathetic magistrate that he used them
to clean his children’s heads. One month, hard !


V?j
iS]e Jutelf irf Suppi'esVrrra r7i l5O/
m Hew Gainey. * —^
\o,r 1 S&Wi V* tys
+; *"- K
H'"** j|p
C Current'
Co>*> + ° k v \
J*V>«rS M jf
l'*, V*Wov, <>
’ S\ui you h* vl * y > r It^r
//? e£*s#.
If fa id,-to sv«
15 € labour fot y,
propose* b,
Ik /)
LovernmenT
\ Rei<) t> PcaKko.'
noff/inp
I to do wit^
J him- conie
/join vvisi me.
'V? so
aJiKe you Knot/
'ffjurcfy Worn
s^oci b} Ref or, 77
b-e di\/ovced
v S,e*)bi°r Oa»p« 'i«>t' j
\ ' vMcsUy 0) J j
I didn't" \
\NX if ~~
\\ C\M W €
ft € sts Wo >^
-.r-, -
b - /
wie r*r
V e n
Co« 7 ftjr
ok
■fS»o 1 ?
'Gyihb tfye ctyurcV a^i"
S? CWi'Mnfbeef' on
o>/ev 0 tije 'fl \*r %£ b*cK<-
of Woble
Tjnn^on
NT ur^ l>7 5 *%«
—-I °|f " History of t
SbV* k
:
S®s|§
H|
Jops
■
~Ttye |<yaj
Tro n fe.
op
A^^' 1 SwayAe*
o\. Vo
V \\ \\\tb
T *4 l) ‘ y
(J’f/ I ' ovicleK'
FEDERAL AND OTHER MATTERS.


J3r" R. Arthur (Mosuiau) writes .
“ Whafy then, ctrtfld be more simple
than that aIL the girls between the
ages of 13 and 1.5 year 3 should be
given one or more series of lessons
and practical demonstrations on the
care of infants I (
“ Occasionally a real baby is brought in
to give a finishing touch of reality to the
proceedings.
INSTRUCTOR- /vW THE
First thing, to is
ftoiv to Hoi? a £A£y
this is the RqnG, Wat.
‘ The lessons should be of a 3
practical a nature as possible,
and should deal with the
natural and artificial
nf infants.' X
THE lecturer,— I THink. GiRLy
vJB WILLT>FaI WITH THE ART~
iFfCIAL MBTtioV FIRS']-.
The preparation of foodstuffs, the neces-
sity for rigid cleanliness, the subjects of
dress, fresh air, slight ailments, etc.
Put <
OF-CoURSE-TtlE
MoRL* /indßeliQiousTraninoF
the child nusr not be nec,lectid. if An
old supper used in rtuj Process it
SHOIILD £E FmST THEROLy STERIL-
izrp
7>JF J*A{?y
7aKES A F/T T Oncf
INTO diUNCj Water AnD Tele-
phone foR. Doctor Arthur, , _
/l Prudent Mother h/illNeu- L—
£/l ALLOW t>/£ UNDER THE CoPPEIUju OUT-
— //
If A NFw Too Trf |J SUSf>ECTEJ)
should Be called
Without
DEL^y
TnJTiD of D.qLL*,
fHouLD&EqiSFN RfALpAplFl
Tu ~PLAy WITH • IT THSRE /UNf
A GjOol) SuJ>f) Lsj Aj
u/ru thfrfs tWf orphan
A Ty CU/vj S
/ p> f\ /\ VV t*
il^Wi^STuV/.
'•Trip STARTUn Di'i-
M CoreiKy 5 RF-
W CeNfLy ?EE~ MA-
TtJAT
y O<ES LEARNS To
IfT-y Beforene-
S'y CAN hiALK.jHEY
Fl y To liEAveh An~D
peconE /Anc,lE!s.
ThepocTo«s
-fc-y A To
Ppof 1 Wf?l T'N<, To The ?/>-
s To sy 0 P ]y,f thi rp.NT :
£ ofl 771 L* 7y. *
/
(IcNL'MESSIS
A Good THINC, OHpVO-
<S\NT OVE R.DQ IT
/S Y W ri '
4R />Pf
rrggjflTb f\ N
l HER fa-'
Unler the ;
74 PWWr* nite ft'ii T>o»t Do TtlE
/til No qood An h/MTE S JV4T6R.
you ~DqhT FFL'Fvf
/»SK d* Musketo^a'Kth-
“There is no reason why dolls should
not be used to instruct the girls how 10
•ess and handle babies
• y& JA / S i'pjHVR
THE TooT N E/PfRT VFRiFy the
TooTd W/TH A Micnosy E'/NqFR - LyJlCtt
fL&SPS THE nicßoßs
if CRiEJ
( 5 Fithjbß Al ° nc >
tee jh or ?ins
OR ?A /AJS I N IJi TJM
0R ?iJRF CUSSE{)NEfc - HEN
/AJ Cftjrt* ii*
Children often cRy
I “For ISLB.^-
/I ritijAHi Wf|«
Cjf)F /W/lETiUrt NFVff\
Ts f : c /4u. e & o*tnja\
l/WWTtjF FL°oR HijtlA
C rvinC]
Ntuv X TmrJK of n Wt\'f Noji
Sußstuje Dolls f on B/ibys /n-
-fYf/?y 7)/iy L/ff T'Vfy f/*r
Off A\/fIR fcErp you
/jKAKF W(Trf RflSff-
tj ANd iICH
. Co<v7/c
T/STS "V F"o/i m fa
PRo6ue^s
INFANT MORTALITY IN AUSTRALIA—AND HOW TO CHECH IT.— (Drawn by Hop's Understudy.)


A. SAUNDERS FOB, NEW YEAR GIFTS.
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver
WATCH, Pull Jewelled, f-plate,
30s, £2, £2 10s, £4, £4 10s ; Solid Gold,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranteed 2,8, 4,5, and 6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Long Gold MUFF CHAINS in
Every Style and Pattern Made,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £slos,
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
A, SAUNDERS.
Very Choice Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined JEWEL CASE,
22s 6d ; Other Styles, 17s 6d, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Silver-mounted, Polished Crocodile Skin
PURSE, 30s ; Other Styles, 10s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
In Morocco, same mounts, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHOE LEFT and HOOK, in Silk-
lined Case, 7s 6d ; Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt Bedroom CLOCK, Splendid
Timekeepers, 15s; Other Styles, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Bushman’s and Miner’s Pocket Compass,
a Boon to Tourists, 10s 6d ; Sim'lar,
2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s.
m
m
m
m
m*
L
10/6
Pure Silver, large size, HAIR BRUSH,
extra long hand-drawn bristles, beanti-
10/6
fully chased and embossed, 10s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s. Post free.
f
8/6
8/6
m
m
A. SATOTDEKS.
Gont.’sPoTshed Crocod : leLenther
CIGARETTE CASE, Pure Silver
Mounts, 17s 6d ; Other Styles 5.s
6d, 8s Od, 10s 6d, 12s6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
Nickel
20s.
Silver,
355.
A. SAUNDERS.
ReFable Knockabout WATCHES, 12s 6d, 15s.
17s Hd, 20s, 255, 27s 6d, 30s ; Eirst-class Silver
Hunter English Lever, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4los £5
£6 ; Gold, £8 10s to £5O. ’ ’
A. SAUNDERS.
Friendship Gold Motto BROOCH, 20s ; 15ct.
Gold, 35s ; 18ct. Gold, £2.
15ct. Gold, Opal, Half-hoop BRACELET, 13 Opals, £l2 10s; with
Diamonds, £l5; Larger Diamonds, £2O ; Oct. Gold, 11 Opals, £4.
V^jjjpwOTU^^iKiiwjnwSjwmii
iiimiiiimiiiiil
IlSliil
mm
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Silver First-class HAIRBRUSH, Beautiful White
Bristles, in Silk-lined Cases, 30s ; Other Styles, 15s 6d, 21s, 255.
sdf
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN, CHAIN,
and Photo. CHARM,
8s 6d. To hold Midget
Photos.
Ladi es Pure Silver-mounted Morocco Leather PURSE and CARD
CASE combined, 8s 6d ; other styles, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
15s, 20s, to £2.
......
iillpilillii ■I
t
v\.~ S
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamhoo Gold BRACELETS, all the Latest Styles and Fashions
Prices According to Width, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s : Isct Gold
£3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BOOT,
CHAIN, and PIN,
6s 6d.
Metal Pin, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold CHAINS, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £3 ; loot. Gold, £5 10s, £('., £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Solid Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
PE
ffeiir
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BRACELET, Pearls, 3 Sapphires, and 2 Diamonds,
£l2 10s. Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold. Diamond Cluster and Pearls, £5 ;
Diamond and Rubies, £3 10s.
MAS
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-bar BROOCH, Red or Blue Stone
Centre, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 3-bar BROOCH, with Double-cut
Diamond Centre, £2 10s ; Larger Diamonds,
£4 10s.
22 1
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
B
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Eloral Eorget Me Not BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-bar Opal and 4 Diamond BROOCH
£2 It’s. Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl Star
PENDANT or BROOCH,
Very Neat, £3.
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell, Chased, 12s
6d ; 15ct. Gold, 22s 6d.
9ct. Gold LINKS, 12s 6d;
loct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield LINKS,
22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, £2 ;
Solid Silver, 4s 6d.
sd
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, 8 Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £5 ; Diamond and 2 Rubies, £4.
,V-U
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted GLOVE STRETCHER, SHOE HOOK.
GLOVE HOOK, and SHOE LEFT, in Nice Leather Roll, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s WALLET and POGKETBOOK, All Improvements,
Silver-mounted, as above, 12s 6d ;
Without Shield, 10s 6d.
Initials Nicely Chased, Is Extra.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s.
Latest Fashion Pearl, Red, or
Blue Stone Set PHOTO. PEN-
DANTS, 15s 6d, 17s 6d ; Extra
Large, 20s ; Other Styles, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s, 259.
15ct. Gold HEART.
Double-cut Diamond,
30s, 40s;
Ruby or Sapphire, 255.
18ct. Gold 5 Opal
RING, £2 10s ;
Size Larger, £3los
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-bar Pearl-set Buckle BROOCH, 355,
□
□O
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Crescent and Spray Pearl BROOCH,
£5 10s. Very Neat and Attractive.
■
A. SAUNDERS.
2-bar Floral BROOCH, -with Diamond and
Blue or Red Stones, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Forget-me-not Floral Design Heart and Bell
Gold Brooch, 12s 6d.
The Lord watch
Between Me _ r.
Thee
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Heart
CHARM.
Extra Large, 8s 6d ;
Smaller, 4s 6d, 5s 6d.
6s 6d.
18ct. Gold Buttercup Pure
Diamond BING,
£3, £4, £5.
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Amethyst BING, 25s ;
15ct. Solid Gold, £2, £2los.
Plain Signet BINGS,
9et. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
loot. Gold, 30s, 85s ;
18ot. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
18ct. Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and Bubies,
or Sapphires, £3los, £4,
£4los; s Diamonds, £5.
15ct. Gold, Diamond
and 2 Ruble? or Sap-
phires, £2 10s ; 3 Dia-
monds, £3.
18ct. Gold Half-hoop,
5 Double-cut Diamond
RING, £5; Larger Dia-
monds, £6, £7 10s, £B,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
Band RING, with
Name, 9ct. Solid Gold.
12s 6d, 15s; 15ct. Gold,
20s, 255; 18ot. Gold,
255, 30s £2.
18ct. Gold Buokle, Dia-
mond and 2 Rubies, or
Sapphires, £2 10s j
3 Diamonds, £4.
Hand-made WEDDING- RINGS and KEEPERS, 9ct.
Solid Gold, 7s Gd, 10s 6d each ;15ct. Gold, 15s ; Extra
-Heavy, 255; 18ct. Gold, 20s ; Extra Heavy, 30s, 355,
40s. £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS
Sydney’s Leading- Jeweller & Optician,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-STREET, OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.


Business, Robbery, etc.
“ Nym ” : A little-known industry is that of the
itinerant old-stamp buyer. Struck one of the gentry this
week, and he assures me he makes handsome profits in
“ trucking ” his wares—he generally hawks jewellery or
books as well—for philatelic treasures off old envelopes,
deeds, &c., as to the value of which the owners are gene-
rally ignorant. In mining townships of the “ has been ”
order there is treasure-trove for the wandering stamp-
collector, especially in the hamlets that had a fleeting
importance in the roaring days. A jewellery-hawker
once struck a patch at an old mining town police-station,
securing the stamps from long-forgotten documents,
to the value of £72, for a 12s. 6d. gold brooch for the con-
stable’s missus. Many country postmasters take up the
craze, which has many “wrinkles.” Every sheet of
stamps has one on the sheet, or maybe one on a line,
different in some slight detail, which is the Government’s
safeguard against forgery, and sometimes these have a
value. There remains a wide field fit to be “ fossicked ”
over by itinerant philatelists. The old agricultural
settlements of N.S.W., such as those in the “ Oxbury ’’
and Cowpasture districts, should be worth exploring;
ditto the Vic. Western district—all the places, in fact,
where oldest inhabitants grow.
*mi • * * *
“C.C. : The simple Tasmanian farmer appears
to be exporting a larger quantity of his tight little island
than usual this season. Recently had a washing up of a
bag of “ Circular Heads,” which panned out exactly 441 b.
of potatoes to the cwt. The rest was dirt. This explain*
why the North-West Coast spud fakirs drive in 50-guinea
buggies and record their votes in favor of economy and
reform. A recent importation of 160 bags of “ oat shells,”
ex Wakatipu, from Devonport (Tas.), also clears up the
mystery of a bag of Tasmanian oaten chaff, in which
present writer could find thousands of “ shells,” but
nary an oat. Good old “backbone of the country!”
There is one man who always chuckles with joy when the
primitive bush-spieler is taken down by a clever city
brother, for there are no redeeming features about the
brutally inartistic swindles of selling “shells” for oats
and mud for potatoes.
* * * •
How is this for sweating? In the Sydney
branch of a huge English softgoods firm the following are
the rates of pay :—The head-warehouseman, who is ac-
countable for all stock and the execution of orders (prac-
tically the manager) receives under £2OO a year. The
accountant, a highly-qualified man, draws but £lOO a
year ; whilst the rest of the staff earn from 7s. 6d. to 20s.
a week. The “figurehead” who is responsible for this
scandalous parsimony draws £l5OO a year. In any decent
softgoods house in Bradford, Manchester, or London
doing a similar amount of business (in fact, in any of the
English branches of the firm in question) the salaries paid
would be twice or three times as much. In the case of the
accountant, indeed, five times the amount would not be
considered extravagant. Yet there was a time before the
Big Debt came, when young Englishmen shifted to Aus-
tralia to “ improve their positions ! ”
* * * *
“Nym” : Some foreign firms, have been build-
ing up a large and profitable Australian trade in watehes.
The modus operandi has been to swamp a district with
circulars advertising the merits of certain high-class
•sporting and repeating watches at from six to 40,guineas.
Enclosed with the batch of circulars is a coupon, having
upon it the name of Mr. Bill Plodd or Mr. Jim Cow-
whacker (taken from some municipal voting roll or other),
which states that a watch like the splendid and valuable
centre-seconds chronograph, only in a less expensive
case, has been reserved especially for Mr. Bill Plodd or
Mr. Jim Oowwhacker, and will be sent on receipt of a
post-office order for 12s. 6d. Dozens of people rush to be
first at the post-office counter to send away the 12s. 6d.
for the reserved watch. Three months later they get a
letter apiece from the Customs to the effect that there is
a packet at the office on which there is ss. duty to be
paid. The dues roll in, and each glad recipient finds he
has sent all the way to Bunkum for a low-class watch,
inferior to the kind the local horologist ha* been selling
for years at 10s. 6d. duty paid—cost ss. 3d.
IN THE DAYS OF PROHIBITION.—TALES OF A GRANDFATHER.
“Ah, boys, them was the days. It was a liquor like nectar is — Beer, I think they called it;
you could buy it like milk, as much as a quart-pot would hold, for 4d.”
“Hairy David”: I have described my initia-
tion into the Melbourne Beggars’ Association, and why I
became paralysed in Prahran, or rather in my right arm,
and so I will now relate how it was I came to throw over
the Association run by the scoundrelly ex-everything.
There was a copper in the force up my way who made
it his business to annoy us street beggars, by telling
people who were likely to give us a “ tray ” that one of
us wasn’t paralysed at all, t’other wasn’t blind, and
another didn’t have a wife and sixteen starving children,
and so on. He was telling a lady some sort of yarn one
day about Blind Johnny, and Blind Johnny saw him and
said something very sarcastic (I forget what it was
anyhow, he’d been saving it up for a long time to throw
at the cop.), and the lady laughed, and the cop’s cheek
went as red as his beery nose, and he looked like
an ass in a uniform. But he had his revenge, and
Blind Johnny was put away for a fortnight for vagrancy
not long after. We other fellows suffered too, for when-
ever we took up a stand P. O. Murphy would bump us
into the gutter We held a meeting and discussed our
grievances, and proposed remedies. Someone suggested
writing to the papers ; another that the authorities be
requested to transfer the cop to some other district; but
both suggestions were negatived. Then I rose and
suggested that someone should wipe the ground with
him, and that the Union should pay the fine. It went at
that, and the ex-everything, who was chairman, tore up
a number of slips of paper, and numbered all but one of
them, borrowed my hat, and —well, I drew the blank. It
took me a long time to make up my mind to tackle that
copper, but one day he came along in his usual
bouncing style, trod purposely on my toe, and pushed
me into the gutter. I raised my paralysed arm and
smote him fair on the nose, and ran —into another
copper. I was tried. The ex-everything Johnny and-all
my friends were in court, and when I pleaded “Not
guilty” they cheered till the sergeant ordered “ Silence
in the Court.” But when I pointed (not with my had
arm) to Murphy, and denounced him as “ a dirty, low-
born son of an Irish scavenger,” my friends in the gallery
again cheered and stamped their feet. Regardless of
the sergeant’s cry of “ Order ! ” they continued to make
a noise, till they were all ordered out of court. I almost
fainted’when I got 14 days without the option, cracking
stones- surely thev must have forgotten my paralysed
arm When I cam e out I asked the ex-everything for the
money subscribed for my fine, and he refused to give it
to me : so, being desperate, I wiped the floor with him,
and resigned from the Union.
Not every woman could show such presence of
mind during a fire scare as did a Maorilandress recently.
When the alarm rang late one night she gave a hasty look
around, grabbed her purse, and raced down the street in
her night-gear and her bare feet to wake up the insurance
agent and pay her overdue premium. The agent pro-
tested, and said he supposed the outbreak was in her own
house. But it wasn’t; her next door neighbor was
getting roasted.
» * * *
“ Ku-Klux ” : I had always believed the old
saying “ the camera can’t lie," but lately I am beginning
to doubt it. Canvasser for enlargements called at our
place the other day. Wife showed him an old photo,
which she wishes enlarged, and he offered, for a consider-
ation, to put a gold chain round the neck, gold bangle on
the wrist, and do the hair in the very latest style. He
would have put a crown on the head for an extra 6d.
* * * *
One of the industries of the poor in England is
mending nutmegs. Worm-eaten nutmegs are taken
from the factories, and mended with nutmeg-dust, mixed
with glue or gum. When mended they are carried back
to the factory. Threepence-farthing a gross is paid for
mending nutmegs.
* * * •
The latest successful small swindle in country
towns is worked thus : Well-dressed man arrives and puts
up at the chief hotel. He inquires for letters, but there
is none. Next day a letter comes, and Blank opens it in
presence of the publican ; it contains an authority from
a Sydney wool firm for Mr. Blank to buy skins up to
value of £lOO, and encloses several of the firm’s printed
cheques for various amounts in payment. Then he begins
buying, giving, for instance, a £4O cheque for £25 worth
of skins, and taking vendor’s cheque for the balance, £l5.
A couple of days later Blank disappears. Sometimes he
gets away with the skins and the change ; sometimes he
drops the skins in his flight, and gets away with the
change only. So far he has always got away with some-
thing.
» * • •
“Myrtle”: Recently ran across a man (just
out of gaol) who had for some time done good business
in the corset line. Under the guise of a woman he took
corset-orders to measure for the head firm, and every-
thing went well till he got on the razzle one night.
Next morning he laboriously got into his woman’s gear
and went forth to measure the fair sex for its new corset,
but in his confused state he forgot to shave. A lady with
very visible whiskers was arrested that forenoon at a back
door, where he was talking in a thick voice to another
lady, and urging her to let him see her present corset, so
that he could point out its many defects.
* * • *
“ J.F.D.”: The ways of the man who retails
bananas “ eighteen in a bag for sixpence ” are as crooked
and darksome as a side street in the catacombs. Thought
I would invest threepence, a few nights back (the banana
is very effective in filling a vacuum), and I keenly
watched the retailer count them into the paper bag. He
grabbed three and jerked them in. “Six,” he shouted.
“ Hold on,” I said, “ you only put in three.” “ Betcher
threepence I put in six,” he said. “Done,” said I, pro-
ducing a “ tray.” Then he upended the bag and out
came the three he had put in while I was looking and
three mouldy, diseased bananas that a respectable hog
would refuse to chew. “ ’Ad yer that time,” he said as
he pocketed my threepence ; “ got all my bags fixed up
like that. ’Ad an old bloke same way last night.” I
walked away and he roared out, “ The old chap selling
mangerines is on the same lay.” I only had a penny left
so 1 bought a scone. They don’t give you a bag with one
scone ; if they did, I suppose it would be a case of nine
scones and three rocks to the dozen.
* * » *
Strange how some people rush an alleged
imported article, and are prepared to pay a fat price for
it on the mere say-so of anybody who happens along with
something to sell. A travelling genius managed to per-
suade a Balclutha (M.L.) man to give him £1 u for a couple
of fowls (Wyandottes) on the represent.",t.on that they
were imported from ’Murka, and had crowed under the
tar-bangled Hannah or whatever the flag is called.
Turned out that they were bought from a neighbor at
ss. each, and the victim secured judgment for the return
of his cash.
“S.”: The well-known (in England) and
exposed Paris portrait dodge has become rea-
sonably common in Australia. A few days ago
I received a printed (imitation typewritten) cir-
cular from the Society Artistique de Portraits, 22 Rue
. de Turin, Paris, with “ the following bona fide offer”
“ On receipt of a photo, of yourself or any member of
your family, living or deceased” (an artistic touch),
“ we will make you from same one of our finest life-size
crayon portraits entirely free of charge.” All that is
asked in exchange is that you show the portrait to your
friends. The circular adds that the society’s object
is .to put artistic crayon portraits “within the
reach of almost anyone,” and a neat and persua-
sive clause says that, in order to introduce them-
selves they are making these free portraits for
a limited number of “ prominent people.” The signature
to the curious circular is “ A. Tanqueray, Directeur.”
In these sort of cases there is no better antidote to the
temptation than the old Scottish proverb, “You get
nothing for n'othing—and very little for sixpence.” Even
the picture at the head of the circular, which shows
three long-haired artists working at portraits—with
palette and brush, and not with crayons—did not tempt
me. I am not particularly fond of seeing my own, or
anyone else’s, photo ; and had a vision of a letter being
received later on asking for a remittance of £2 2s. to pay
for “ the magnificent frame,” which alone could do justice
to my unusual and extraordinary countenance.
* * * •
“J.F.D.”: We are a people at the mercy of a
painted recording machine, which stands on the verandah
or in some corner of the cellar, and silently records any
darned way it pleases the gas we consume or don’t con-
sume, and laughs to itself at our inability to tell whether
it is fast or slow. I think I hear the meter snickering as
I write. If I think ic too fast, I can have it tested by its
owners, the Gas co. If the co. likes to admit that |I am
right it will make a small allowance, which it says is
sufficient; if it chooses to say I am wrong I pay all
expenses. I have never any guarantee that the meter
isn’t the most stupendous lie, fraud, and short-weight
machine in the country. When will some city councillor
howl for an independent inspector. We have sleuth
hounds tracking the grocer and hawker who sell under-
weight, but the machine that regulates our gas bill is
not amenable to law, and if it gives short measure our
only appeal is to the co. that supplies the short measure.
* * * *
“Mirumbeck”: Talking about opal buying—
the finished article, that is—women buyers down South
won’t look at the creamy opal, with the gleaming flashes
AT THE PARTY.
KIND LADY : “ Oh, the dear little fellow, won’t he come and sit on my knee? ”
UNFORTUNATE CHILD: “Bohoo! Don’t wanter sit on you knee. You’s sittin’ on me tart.”
of red-fire, that costs money. They prefer the inferior
greeny-blue tinge. But the best to sell is the faked opal—
inferior stuff like glass, with a piece of colored foil put
beneath the setting to give it lustre. The unique colors
this fake is capable of would shame the rainbow, and
women like it! Lots of superstitious Australians won’t
wear opals at any price, although they will buy the gew-
gaws to give away as presents. I have had to take
dozens of opals out of brooches because the wearer*
attributed their bad luck —the loss of a sweetheart, child,
horse, or cow, or an accident, to the unoffending gem.
The main cause of superstition regarding the unluckiness
of the opal is because the gem is so easily chipped, and
so difficult to set securely owing to its slippery nature
when cut. Once a stone falls out of an Australian girl’s
ring or brooch she considers the banshee of all things
evil is treading on her skirt-tails. Season in and season
out the diamond is the fashionable gem throughout the'
Common wealth. The ruby is a close second, with the
amethyst and turquoise a long way behind—last.
* * *
*
“Nymsie” : My grocer has just handed me an
elaborate colored card setting forth the merits of an
imported condensed milk. It embodies a picture of the
dairy where the cow that presumably supplies the milk
hangs out. The dairy is paved with cobble stones, and
there is a stream of some fluid trickling along the floor.
The place is largely occupied by cows, bags and dogs. I
am “ off ” this brand henceforth ; there are too many
dogs in the dairy. I am not taking any risks with my
milk, for however essential to punctuality in the milking
arrangements dogs may be on a milk-farm, they have no
right howling around the cow-yard and inspecting the
milk-pails as in this “ ad.” The Australian tinned milk
has my patronage till it puts dogs, cats, or snakes on the
label—then I’ll abstain from milk altogether.
The Inky Way.
0.0.0. : The late William Curnow had many attractive
features in his character. A well-known verse-writer—
like all Australian verse-writers, fearfully hard up-
dropped into the S.M. Herald office on the afternoon of
31st. Dec., ’9B, with some suitable verse for the New
Year. Ournow received him with his matchless com-
bination of dignity and courtesy, took the MS. and the
scribe’s explanation with some dignity, and told him to
call back about 10 p.in. Ten o’clock and the anxious
poet arrived together, and at Ournow’s first word the
scribe’s hopes rose. “Yes, Mr. Blank,” said the editor,
majestically; “I shall accept your contribution. The
verses are very smooth—very fine— unusually good,
indeed!” The scribe bowed his thanks, and went over
to Pfahlert’s for a pint of Bass. Next morning early he
seized the S.M. Herald and searched for his New Year
effort. No sign. Nor next day—nor the next. But
lo ! on Jan. Bth out came the verses, and the despairing
bard—who then had no idea of the leisurely
methods of S.M. Herald journalism—took heart of grace
and advantage of the introduction, and wrote two or
three more or less literary articles which were accepted.
At the end of the month he saw Ournow again, asked
about remuneration, and was told to send in Ills account
and charge 30s. per column for all matter that had
appeared. The New Year verses had just turned a half-
column. Therefore the scribe hinted at some specific
payment for them—“say a couple of guineas, Mr.
Ournow.” Curnow gazed at the bard severely. “ Mr.
Blank,” he said, “we never pay for poetry. The Sydney
Morning Herald does not often print verse, no matter
who the writer may be. We consider it sufficient honor
and reicardfor any young man to have his verses printed
in the Herald ! ” The astounded and impecunious bard
looked so disappointed that the old man presently re-
lented. “ Well, Mr. Blank,” he said, “ I cannot break
our rule, but you may charge for the poem with the rest
— but only as space /” By the way, how many papers of
standing in Australia don’t “ pay for poetry”?
* * * *
Something new from M.L. Stratford Post prints this :
A NEWSPAPER ACCOUNT.
Taranaki Daily News, in account with Stratford
Evening Post :
Items.
Dec. 11. —To five items taken 5
By one item acknowledged .. ..1
Balance in favor of Post unacknow-
ledged .. ... 4
“ Scribo ” : The first Australian newspaper, The Sydney
Gazette and N.S.W. Advertiser, was issued on sth
March, 1803. It gave the date of the commencement of
the colony in 1788. A rude little wood engraving, repre-
senting a ship, with a Union Jack, and an allegorical
female seated on the shore, adorned the top of the first of
the four pages of foolscap. The latest intelligence from
England was that of a dreadful fire at Woolwich on 20th
May, 1802 1 Many of the issues contained no local or
colonial news ; and suspension of publication was fre-
quent, owing to the irregular supply of paper. At one
period the editor complained that he was reduced to the
necessity of printing the Gazette on China paper, “ which
doubles the labours of the printer, as only one side can be
used.” Then both type and ink gave out, and an illegible
issue was apologised for. When subscribers fell into
arrears, as nearly all of them did, the Governor wag
appealed to, and “His Honor” issued a proclamation
recommending punctuality in the discharge of newspaper
debts. Would that “ His Honor ” would do that now 1
* * * •
The chief difference between the two Adelaide papers
is that the Register is always pretending to be more
Conservative than it is, and the Advertiser is always
pretending to be less. At bottom there isn’t much
radical difference between them. There are miles of
difference, though, between the two men who supply most
of their brains. W. J. Sowden, of the Register, is a man
of affairs, who likes to knock about, and be seen aDd
known ;he is hardly anything of a literary man. He
began as a country compositor, and, though still young,
is now a partner in the Register. There are not many
days that his name is not in the paper in connection with
something or other. Fred. Robertson, of the ’Tiser, is,
on the other hand, a literary recluse. If he has any
knowledge of business, it is only theoretical. Few know
him his name is hardly ever in the papers, and he
blushes violently whenever it does get there. He is so
nervous that he could not speak six words in public,
while Sowden is happiest on his feet—he is probably the
best speaker among working journalists.
* * * *
“ H." : I invite contributions towards a fund for sup-
plying Norman Lindsay, Alf. Vincent, and half-a-dozen
other Australian artists with one axe, one pick, one
spade, one hammer, and one shovel a-piece. When N.L.
starts out to draw an axe, or other domestic weapon, he
makes the most awful bludgeon of it imaginable; and
Vincent and the others run him very close. If each had
a set of the above supplied to him, there would be no
excuse, and Australian black-and-white work would get
a big technical lift. “ Hop.” alone depicts the imple-
ments of everyday life with fidelity. Why is it, by the
way, that a reaper-and-binder, or a plough, or a set of
harrows, or a threshing machine never figures in a Bul-
letin drawing? [Principally because they are not
required.—Ed. B.]
* * * *
Bits from a Barrier boy’s examination essay on news-
papers :
“ The business of a newspaper is to report the thousand
and one things which are known to be going on in the
world, and also the things without it, as the fall of
comets, stars, and any other such sensational aerial
proceeding or happening. ... A war correspondent has
the pleasantest duty out of all the newspaper business.
He is a happy fellow; that is, of course, before he is
knocked on the head. He may even be happy then. It
all depends. He is generally expected to be in the thick
of the fray, wherever he is, and that’s where he is if he is
a Britisher. . . . Somewhere I read a story of a war
correspondent, who, when his part of a battalion was
suddenly surprised, was seen calmly sitting on his horse,
calmly jotting down notes. I don’t know whether
this is true or not. The correspondent was a Russian.
His name ended in ‘ ‘ off.” . . . Reuter’s message is some
kind of telegraphy specially used for newspapers. Ido
not know much on this subject, nor much on others
either. ... An editor is the most important man in the
town, except, of course, the Mayor. He often has great
trials and wrongs to fight. Often this is very trying to
the editor. He loses his health, and very often he has to
go away for a trip to better his health. An editor has
been known to commit suicide. . . . But the pay of an
editor is very great. His residence, especially if he has
charge of an important paper, is not unlike a million-
aire’s, on a small scale.”
* * * *
lieightley Snowden, in September London Magazine,
gives some facts re London Times. Its style in the first
half of last century was distinctly Nortonesque. A
sample of Billingsgate, addressed to the Irish agitator,
William O’Brien (Nov. 26, 1835) :
Scum condensed of Irish bog,
Ruffian, coward, demagogue,
Boundless liar, base detractor,
Nurse of murders, treason’s factor I
Spout thy filth, diffuse thy slime,
Slander is in thee no crime.
Safe from challenge, safe from law,
Who can curb thy callous jaw?
Who would sue a convict liar ?
On a poltroon who would fire ?
Kinglake once said : “ Never offend the Times. A sea-
captain in the Navy told me that the cause of his non-
success was his having on some occasion refused to let
one of the Times’ correspondents come onboard his ship.
From that time, whenever he distinguished himself, the
Times misspelled his name, which prevented his ever
making any mark.”
* * * *
The Opal Miner (White Cliffs, N.S.W.) temporarily lost
its hold of things recently, and let the Archimedean lever
run wild. The only explanation offered was this notice,
printed in large type on yellow paper :
“ Ladies and Gentlemen.—l much regret that the Opal
Miner will not be published this week. My compositor
has neglected his duties, for which I’m in no way respon-
sible. I hope to have a compositor here in time for the
next issue.
“ Thanking you for past support,
“ I am, yours truly,
“FRANK HARTLEY.”
Presumably the lone comp, had gone fishing. The West
has suffered greatly from insurrection and swelled head
since it has had water in its dam, and has had reason to
suspect that there was a tittlebat in the water.
EDITORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The World is full of fine Romance
Of Science and of Art,
But some of us have lost the chance
And some have lost the heart.
Saint John had luck, it seems to me,
Saw circuses galore,
And yet that Beast he did not see,
The Fine Art Editor.
He wants your sorrows in a song,
Your raptures in a rhyme,
And all your thoughts of Right and Wrong
Turned to a pantomime.
And if you have to die in verse
You must not die at length,
Because he has his Motor-Hearse
At forty jackass strength.
Before your little fire of life
He warms a frozen hand....
I wish I had a little knife,
Or poisoned salmon canned.
I would not see him die in pain,
Or gasp in tortures slow —
But there were Thoughtful Men in Spain,
Some centuries ago.
And when to Paradise my way
I take—with husky cheer
Peter will welcome me and say,
“No Editors are here.”
CREEVE ROD.
HEART—AND ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When youth held sway
His verse was vile :
He polished his style
—And his heart was grey.
D.O'B.


PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
B. CENNErt, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
[ennon’s Hotel, Brisbane,
Has been Re-Furnished throughout and will be
conducted as a FIRST-CLASS HOUSE. Its
central position recommends it to Commercial
Men and Fam.ilies. Trams pass the door—a penny
section to any part of the City.
S. M. COLLINS. Proprietor.
SPECTACLES
f
—FOR —
DEFECTIVE
VISION, t.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously -accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to-
ll. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-St., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcede
ds
Before booking: your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing: List, with map.
THO 3. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
fsd
&O TO HELL-
KiOIjANJi for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
'FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 E!izabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO. ;
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Said that the retirement of Bigjohn
Forrest from the Australian Cabinet is practically
certain.
Generally speaking, the resident Chows
are staunch advocates of a White Australia.
No more Chineeman completition. Welly good
policee!
Intelligent utterance by a particularly
Tory Victorian M.L.A. during the recent discus-
sion on the Redistribution of Seats Bill:
shows the folly of attempting to swallow a gigantic
Bill like this before it has been properly digested.
Shipowner Smith, when he was unsuccess-
fully standing for the Senate, spoke at Kyneton
(Vic.): “The Labor party can see but one side of
the case.” “Yes,” shouted a stentorian voice—
“ the inside ! ”
In a suburban school-house, used as a
polling booth, the lady teacher left written on the
blackboard, “ Please do not curse in this school-
room.” The returning-officer did, and ordered
the chalk insult to be wiped out.
A few months ago Facing-Both-Ways
Reid declared “Mr. Charles Kingston is auto-
oratio and tyrannical enough to be the Czar of
Russia.” To-day he describes him as “ a politician
of liberal views and inolined to impartial judg-
ments.”
Headings from a recent issue of London
Daily Expbess:—
REFORMED ARMY.
DUKE OF CONNAUGHT TO BE PROMOTED.
These two lines express the reason why the lum-
bering, costly, unready British army is just as bad
after it is reformed as before. The first idea in
reforming the British army is to promote a duke.
If the case is very bad, they promote two dukes.
If the country were invaded and the enemy swarm-
ing on London, they would promote 16 dukes.
“ L.”
FATMAN (outside Brisbane COURLER office): “Yes,
the country’s going to L all right.”
At Broken Hill, the straight-out Socialist
candidates polled four times as many votes as the
Foreign-trade three did, and Griffith six times as
many.. Nearly a fifth of the whole straight-out
Socialist vote came from that one way-out
centre.
“Vul.” : Since the elections have hardly
heard anything about that wrecked crew that the
Herald and Telegraph were so broken-hearted
over. Are these pathetic, brown human beings
®knging desperately to the sea-washed rooks
off the Victorian coast somewhere?
Immediately after the election the S.M.
Herald came out with “suggestions’’ for the
Freetrade party. There was a long list of them,
but by some amazing oversight the suggestion
that the Freetrade party should commence to
advocate Freetrade wasn’t among them.
A paltry seven-and-sixpence, forwarded
the other day, was the first “ conscience money ”
the Federal customs department has received for
many months —almost the only refund since
Kingston, left the Customs. That sturdy battler
for the right was a better conscience-awakener
than a dozen revival missions !
The Bill legalising cremation—engineered
through Victoria’s House of Landlords by Grim-
wade, M. L.C. —has become law, and the first
crematorium is expected to be built at the new
Spring Vale cemetery shortly. All that is wanted
now is a stout, combustible man who can be easily
spared—one like Bent —to start with.
Federal members’ salaries begin from date
of election ; N.S.W. State members’ from the
swearing-in. In the latter case, however, where
the interval between a bye-election and the
meeting of Parliament is considerable, the
member will, if he pleases the Premier, be put
on the Estimates for the missing sum.
“M.”: Tasmania, apart from the mining
fields, is pretty solid for a Piebald Australia.
The shearing sheds in the midlands are mostly
piebald ; the big sawmills in the South are mostly
piebald ; apart from the active workers in the
democratic forefront, Hobart is black. Tasmania
is badly in need of a little political instruction.
Robert Harper (Vic.) said he could not
address the electors of Mernda owing to the limi-
tation of expenses law, and Bill Lyne contends
that it is a mistake to confine the expenses of a
candidate for a seat in the House of Reps, to
£lOO. All the same, Trenwith used to boast that
his election to the Federal Convention only cost
him £3 2s. 6d.
At the end of the old year N.S.W.
Premier John See allowed the Opposition to get
on his nerves and broke out in the daily papers—
They are the Liberal and Deformed party, a lot of
political rotters. It seems to me that they are perfect-
blighters. These calamity-howlers and humbugs . . .
It is part of the Sydney daily paper game to
enrage John See and goad him into saying silly
things, which are then carefully printed. And
John See is a remarkably enrageable man at all
times.
Little Oamaru (M.L.) is one of the most
heavily-taxed towns in Australasia. Its tiny
population pawned its shirt to build a break-
water. Now it has a breakwater along with a
yearly revenue of something like £16,000, and a
solid, implacable, stare-you-in-the-face debt of
over £300,000. And the shipping news generally
runs like this
SHIPPING.
Arrived—Nil.
Sailed—Nil.
The importing swindler and “ mistaken
invoice ” faker has now
got a special court all to
himself, with the State
Collector as magistrate
and tricky Bill Lyne as
judge of appeal. Yet his
plea of “honest mistake”
is not one whit more jus-
tifiable than that of many
bakers who occasionally
give light weight. The
manager of a co-operative
Bendigo bakery whose
profits are divided among
customers, and whose irre-
gularity, as he made no
profit by it, was neces-
sarily an honest mistake —
was lately summoned and
fined in the ordinary
course. He paid up with-
out complaining, and who
is the Importer that he
should be treated so deli-
cately and have a special
court all to his own cheek ?
Recently, in a case in England, after
counsel had addressed the jury, it was discovered
that, although all could speak Yiddish, not a
single juryman could speak English. If one goes
into Regent or Hyde Park it is difficult to realise
it’s England and not some species of flattened-out
tower of Babel, to such a level has Freetrade in
goods and peoples brought Britain.
The Morgan Government (recently inves-
tigating the condition of Queensland’s Public
Service, with a view to economy) found men with
high salaries doing the work of junior clerks.
Another quaint feature was the existence of young
officials, drawing a salary of £lOO per annum, and
having under them assistant supernumeraries
drawing a salary of .£l5O. Remnants of the
departed regime of “beezness ’’ men.
“ Myrtle,” from Yeppoon (Q.) :
There are some strong exceptions to “Periwinkle’s”
statement (B. 17/12/’O3) that most women did not care
whether they voted or not. Here, on election day, one
woman took possession of the platform, demanded a vote,
and was going to wait till she got it. Six feet of the Law
informed her that her name wasn’t on the roll. “ Name
on the roll!” she said. /‘The roll!! What’s the roll ter
do with me ? ” Then (with some recollections of a school
roll), “ Me boys ’as been goin’ ter school this long time.”
Despite Victoria’s anticipated big wheat-
yield, the cookies are not able to pay for their
seed wheat and free carriage of stock, and repre-
sentations are being made to the Government on
all hands to let the debt stand over until next
harvest, and Government will accede to the
request. The rack-renting landlords, the usurer,
and the machine-agents must all be paid, whilst
the Government that came and helped when all
financial friends failed, must stand out in the cold.
Chanter, defeated at the Riverina by five
votes, alleges that one of the Freetraders’ lies
which turned the scale against him was a state-
ment, made to the aborigines on the mission
stations, that under the White Australia policy
they—the original natives of Australia—were to
be driven out of the country. If that statement
can be proved, then any man who made it deserves
to be hounded out of public life and out of decent
society, as something too dirty and disreputable
for honest men to associate w ith.
UNLAWFUL WEAPONS.
DAVID SYME : “ You drop your dog and I'u
fight you.”
GRORGE REID : “ You drop that soul and I'u
fight you.”
As an item in the British fiscal campaign,
that wealthy man, the Marquis of Ripon, spoke
at Bradford :
I know there is more misery in this country than there
ought to be, hut we shall not reduce it by Protection.
Then at the railway station, on the way home, he
was knocked down by a trolly of Freetrade foot-
warmers, imported from Germany, and consider-
ably damaged.
This is what Johnaynes, Jack want and Co.
are bucking against:—
"Whereas the people of N.S.W., Vic., S.A., Q. and
Tas., humbly relying on the blessing of Almighty God,
have agreed to unite in one indissoluble Federal
Commonwealth.— {Preamble of the Constitution Act.)
And in the struggle they have so far drawn
nothing but their tongues. Not even a putty
knife is waved by these revolutionary enemies to
an indissoluble union.
The appointment of Hugh Nelson, Presi-
dent of Kanakaland Legislative Council, to the
Lieutenant-Governorship of the State establishes
a precedent worth following. The gubernatorial
position is one requiring little intelligence, and
would suit the average President of a Legislative
Council to the ground. Such appointments would
result in much profit to the State, saving, as they
would, wear and tear of the Chief Justice, who is
supposed to have brains.
Sydney Telegraph’s effort to end Bill
Lyne’s parliamentary career by boosting M‘Lean
for the Hume fell with a sorry thud. The D.T.
man who went round to misrepresent the situ-
ation wrote with monotonous regularity about the
“silent vote” that M'Lean was going to receive.
Day after polling, and before the final returns
were in, the paper received the following wire
from an Albury man • “Hurry up with M‘Lean’s
Silent vote. Urgently required at once.”
The Yic. Government is going to retrench
in the Education Department by closing the small
country schools, unless the parents consent to
contribute towards the cost of maintaining them.
It’s a wonder the calm, cool equity lawyer and his
henchmen, to produce a surplus, don’t propose to
abolish the "charity” of free education alto-
gether. A few dames’ schools would do just as
well, or couldn’t the police manage to sandwich
school-teaching in with their other duties ?
“E.R.X.”: I have been strolling round
feeling the pulse of some of the public on the
Labor victory. The almost invariable answer is:
“It’s a grand thing; but what an effect it will
have on the English money market. Where are
we going to get money to keep things going?”
I’ve come to the conclusion that' the Australian is
evolving a borrowing instinct, ijnd that it is only
a question of, avfew years when 4 he will have to
prove possession of this instinct or lose his vote.
Gameue'ss - - and energy distinguished the
campaign of the Victorian Political Labor Council.
It had to meet the solid opposition and misrepre-
sentation of the press, but this was countered
partly by the systematic stumping of the whole
State by the Senate candidates, one to each
district. As each man barracked for his three
mates they managed to cover the ground fairly
well. A few days before the polling the party
issued election broadsides, which were scattered,
free, all over the State. The result was a splen-
didly-solid vote, which made the election of a
single Tory impossible.
Dr. Embling, one of the most lamentable
cases in the Victorian Legislative Council, embel-
lished his last speech before Xmas with some
scornful references to The Bulletin and other
journals which refer to Embling and co. as “48
Rich Landlords.” David Ham, brother in spirit
and flesh to Cornelius Job Ham, rebuked his
indiscreet colleague by interjecting, “What do
we care what they say ? ” But Embling was not
to be baulked of his protest. He insisted upon
stating that he, personally, is not so rich a land-
lord as he would wish himself. Therefore, The
Bulletin’s term of opprobrium touches him in
his tenderest feelings.
Vic. Premier Irvine has done
tardy justice to the executives of the unions which
supported the engine drivers in their disastrous
strike. After the finding of the Williams test
case (which is to be taken to the Privy Council)in
favor of the Government, the commissioners re-
instated ten of the executive of the Amalgamated
Society and the Carriage Builders’ Union. The
vendetta is still extant against the drivers and
firemen, who are not to be taken back, nor is
Williams, plaintiff, nor Secretary Smith of the
Daily Paid Union, who presided at the meet-
ing which decided to take the case to the
Privy Council. The standard bearer generally
pays a heavy price for the honor and glory of flag-
flapping.
One proposal which the N.S.W. Labor
League’s annual conference will consider in Syd-
ney this month is that, in future, all seats for the-
Senate be contested by the party. While it has
been a tail-of-the-hog party instead of a Whole
Hog party it has been satisfied to run one or two.
candidates, and the results have been bad. Three-
candidates could do three times more canvassing
than one ; and in that case the results are likely
to be a good deal better. The proposal ought,
therefore, to go through. But then, if it is going-
to be a Whole Hog party at the polls, it must be
prepared to be a Whole Hog party in Parliament.
“Hypo”: Among those disqualified to
sit in the Australian Parliament is—
Any person who (1) is under any acknowledgment of
allegiance, obedience, or adherence to a foreign power,,
or is a subject or a citizen, or entitled to the rights or
privileges of a subject or citizen, of a foreign power.
As consul for Japan, is not Malcolm M‘Each arm
“ under an acknowledgment of allegiance, obed-
ience or adherence”? A consul is “on# com-
missioned to reside in a foreign country as agent-
for or representative of a government” (Chambers*'
Dictionary). At the very least, Mr. M‘Eacham.
should have his resignation, either as consul for
Japan or as member for Melbourne in the House of:
Representatives, written out for prompt delivery-
in the event of war between Russia and Japan.
Those two or three blighted little political,
scraps who are running what they call a Separa-
tion movement in N.S.W. are something-
stupendous in their assurance. This is how one-
of them wrote to Sydney Telegraph :
Manifestly the outcome of the preliminary meeting to
be held at the School of Arts on Wednesday night, 30th
inst., will be the organisation of an influentially-signed'
address to Mr. Reid, not merely inviting him to head the
movement in favor of withdrawal from Federation, but
urging him to do so, coupled with the assurance that he
will have the enthusiastic support of the entire com-
munity.
And then when the meeting got together it was
found that a dog-kennel could have held the-
entire “movement.”
There will be a bitter fight for the Stawell
seat in the new Victorian Parliament. The
Crooked-Irvine crowd which gets such a hand-
some name for honesty did a bit of deliberate
gerrymandering. It was a natural thing that the
two old seats, Ararat and Stawell, should be
thrown into one in the new scheme of redistribu-
tion, and that Tontcher, who represented Ararat
and opposed the Government, and Menzies, who-
represented Stawell and supported the Govern-
ment, should battle it out. Apparentlyit was feared
that, if this were done, Toutoher would beat Men-
zies. So Irvine and co. cut out about 700 voters
from that part of the old Ararat district in which
Toutcher was accustomed to poll heavily, and
tacked them on to another district. That this
was done as an after-thought is proved by the fact
that the new district into which these voters have
been hustled exceeds its proper number of electors
by about 1000 votes.
DON’T SCARE CAPITAL AWAY—SCARE
THE UNIONIST!
“There was unrestrained jubilation in Park Lane and
other abodes of the London millionaire when the S’African
Labor Commission announced its decision favoring the
importation of Chinese labor for the Jewhannesberg
mines. ‘South Africa is saved from the spectre of trades-
unionism,’ they said.” —AGE.
The debate in Victoria’s House of 48 Rich
Landlords on the Unused Roads Bill revealed a
quaint habit of thought on the part of some of the
extensive landlords. Sirnmie (curious name,
Simmie) plaintively lamented the desire for
• change which was coming over the community.
“ Our fathers,” said he, “ used the public roads as
their own private property from time immemorial*
and why shouldn’t we ? This eternal desire for
change, this reaching out after something new, is
merely an evidence of a tendency towards Social-
ism and should be suppressed,” or words to that
effect. Also, solemn Dowling bewailed the finan-
cial necessity that compelled a State to raise
money by leasing its own property to “persons
who for 45 years had had the undisputed right to
the use of the roads.” He seemed, like many
others, to think the roads belonged as a right to
the landowner ; yet if a boundary-rider to whom
Dowling lent one of his station horses for a month,
or two claimed the animal as his own because he
had had the use of it, the haste with which
Dowling would charge that man with horse-
stealing would be something staggersome.


BOOT FOR MEN.
The Soles Are of Solid Compressed
Leather.
The Uppers are
Flexible and
Strong.
This Boot is
High Grade
throughout.
f.,.
tfe
POST
and
DUTY
FREE
To any address in the
Statos except W.A M
In Tan, 24/6.
1 Messrs. CALLAGHAN & SON,
“Dear Sirs,—l received the boots this morning, and am very well pleased
with them.
“E.S., Clarence Town.”
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st„ Sydney.
HEALTH
And How To Obtain It,
FURTHER TESTIMONY.
PROM A GRATEFUL PERSON.
CONSUMPTION.
NIPPED IN THE BUD BY
VITADATIO
Brunswick,
10 Eveline-street,
rv „ c, . ta ~ Off Glenlyon Road.
To Mr. S. A. PALMER, 27/3/1901
Dear Sir,—
My son, who is now 14 years of age, has been very ill off
and on since he was four years, and about three years
ago lie was so very weak and ill that the doctor told me
he was developing consumption. He had a terrible cough,
which was distressing to listen to ; he had fallen away to
almost a skeleton. At this time Mr. Luxon, Sydney Road,
Coburg, advised me to try Vitadatio which I did. After
the first bottle I saw a great improvement, I continued
the medicine, he gradually improved until he became
quite well. I consider Vitadatio a wonderful medicine,
as it has made a different boy of my son, whom I never
expected to see healthy again. I can recommend it to
anyone, and will be glad to give any information to any-
one suffering the same complaint.—l remain,
EMILY MACKEY.
Coburg,
27th March, 1901.
I hereby certify to the above. I have known the boy
for four years, during which time he was in very bad
health. I advised his mother to give Vitadatio a trial,
with the above results.
Yours faithfully,
P. H. LUXON,
Grocer,
Coburg.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N, t
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
missing Friends.
Re WILLIAM RICHARDS DUNSTAN.
£5
REWARD will be given to anyone furnishing
the address (if still alive) of WILLIAM
RICHARDS DUNSTAN, late of Ryhope Colliery, near
Sunderland, England, miner, but last heard of about 12
years ago from Millthorpe or Tomingley, N.S.W. ; or, if
he be dead, for satisfactory proof of his death. Commu-
nications should be addressed at once to WILLIAM BELL
& SONS, Solicitors, SUNDERLAND, ENGLAND.
THOMAS WARMAN BATHE, of Wiltshire,
England, who about 55 years ago went to Australia,
or his descendants, are requested to write to the under-
signed, when they will hear of something to their
advantage. JOHN T. S. COLE, SHAW FARM,
SWINDON, WILTSHIRE, ENGLAND.
For comfort, cleanliness and freedom from skin
disease the clothing worn next the skin should
be washed with a pure and well-made soap. If
Sunlight Soap be used in the laundry your
pores absorb purity.
Sunlight
So«p
REDUGES
EXPENSE
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is something better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and -have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanst f on and Lonsdale Sts.. Melbourne
ALCOCIDE
IItEGISXHRJffir).;
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
Strictly Confidential.
A I! 74 VICTORIA ROAD,
■ U. LUmOUi.R, AUBURN, MELBOURNE.
TTS~FI
SPOONER’S
au
L
| SPOONER’S
n® ♦
,i,jy •*»«••»
IMTENT LEATHER BOOTS
gUzed ai 05 a?
»<•*»• *»-*• «H»r^
sun
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles).fid. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeeper!,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
TYPEWRITERS
f
3 of the World’s Best
mmz^:
arm
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
W
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
Velvet touch —as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
BY&NEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— YVbmtbr & 00. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— Hedley Button.
THE
COLIHTOH ESTATE
QUEENSLAND,
on the ever-running fresh waters of the Upper Brisbane Eiver, 5$ hours
train from Brisbane on the Esk-Nanango Extension, now nearly completed,
40,000 Acres
of Eioh Eiver Flats, and well-
grassed Eidges, cut into Dairy
Farms,.
In Areas of 100 to 3,251 ACRES,
Will be sold by PUBLIC AUCTION in the HEAD STATION BALL-
ROOM, on
EASTER MONDAY,
at 11 o'clock each day. .'
Mr. John Cameron, M.L.A., of Kensington Downs, a Director of the Q.N. Bank
•>d of the Queensland Meat Export Co. repprted on Colinton on 7th 1900:
“It is impossible to ride over therioh lands of Colinton without coming to the conclusion
that no just or acourate idea of their value can be arrived at by merely treating them as
grazing estates, as the large proportion of arable land embraced in them justifies the
belief that in the future a very muoh enhanced value must attach to them for cutting up
purposes.”
COLINTON is composed of a variety of sloping well-grassed ridges, with a
splendid percentage of Lucerne Flats, and has long been known as one of the Warmest
Winter Buns, as well as one of the beßt fastening Buns in Southern Queensland.
COLINTON la magnificently watered by 18 miles double frontage
to tbe Brisbane River, as well as by upwards of 48 miles of Per-
manent Creeks.
COLINTON has been kept free from pests suoh as lantana, thistle, and
burrs, and there is no nut grass and, above sell, no ticks,
THE MAGNETIC TERMS:
Cae-Tenth Cash, no payments for 2 years, and the balance
up to 2D years at per cent, with a Non-Forfeiture
Clause in the Sale Contract.
A profusely illustrated Pamphlet giving the fullest particulars may be
retained from the office of this paper, ,or from
ISLES, LOVE & Co., Auctioneers, Brisbane
Melbourne could have better spared many
a more useful identity than the late Pat
M'Oaughan, who died on Xmas Day. Pat— to
paraphrase a, line in one of the Brough and Bouci-
cault comedies —was “ the man of 50, who curled
his moustache, and thought every young girl was
in'love with him.” A “Block ornament of the
most imposing type, the M'Caughan strolled
around in white spats and rakish head-gear,
taking himself very seriously, and claiming the
right of a private citizen to be exempt from news-
paper ridicule. When the Argus published some
Saturday verses re his appalling appearance at a
fancy-dress ball, the elderly beau “pulled the
journal for libel, and celebrated his triumph by
inviting the editor to dinner. Again, when Alf.
Vincent caricatured his ornate figure in the Melb.
“ Block ” picture, of four years ago, -Pat consulted
a solicitor with a view to “pulling’ the
Bulletin, but was persuaded to take the ruthless
portrait as a compliment. All the same, he
couldn’t laugh at it. He was a comparatively
humorless Irishman, like Fitz Gibbon, the Bard of
Works, therefore Nature (as in the case of Fitz)
decreed that his harmless personal vanity should
serve the purpose of a merry wit. Melbourne
Owes ten thousand smiles to the memory of pic-
turesque Pat M‘Caughan.
David Syme, after all, bestowed a half-
hearted Xmas blessing on his ex-protege, Icy
Irvine. The late Vic. State Parliament “will be
remembered in all future time with a sense of
gratitude for its Parliamentary reform work,”
said the pale inconstant Age. Also:
For what the Government has done we can highly com-
mend it. For what it failed in we have no harsh words,
though we may have poignant regrets. . . . We feel far
more pleasure in dwelling on the success of the Parlia-
ment than on its failures. The great measure of Consti-
tutional Beform, achieved in the teeth of the Labor
party, which ought to have been the first to hail it as a
new magna charta of Liberalism, is a solid gain which
nothing can take away. It was attained only by the
exercise of Ministerial resolution, &c.
All of whioh means that the worried David
doesn’t see his way clear to barracking for some
one else than Irvine at next election. And as the
Argus can hardly turn dawg on the bloodless
citizen who Stood Firm in the dark democratic
hour of the railway strike, it may be taken for
granted that Peacock’s party will get the scorn of
both journals. Had Peacock been a less flag-
rantly incapable Premier 18 months ago he might
have hoped to be carried back to office on a wave
of anti-newspaper feeling. Under the circum-
stances thbre is a chance for the Labor party to
achieve a fairly strong working minority in Vic-
toria’s new Parliament.
No member of the Victorian Leg. Assembly
is sorry that Max Hirsch, the excitable little
German Foreign : trader, was defeated for the
Wimmera seat in the House of Reps. Hirsch
gained the warm dislike of all his fellow members
of the Assembly by his aggressive and arrogant
speech and bearing. When he followed a member
with whom he disagreed he almost invariably
opened with this sentence: “Mr. Speagur, I
vill show de hon. member dat he ez absolootely
and entirely wrungk. I vill show, Mr. Speagur,
dat he ez eether ignorant of de foxts, or dat know-
ing de foxts he villfully misleads de House.” A
story is told of 'how Trenwith got even with
Hirsch for an insult during the time they were
publicly debating the fiscal question. In two
debates Trenwith was held by the audience to
have won. The third debate had been arranged,
and wlien Trenwith came into the room just prior
to the opening of the debate-he offered to shake
hands with Hirsch, who slewed round to avoid
him. Trenwith’s sight being very defective he
did not at first notice the attitude adopted by
Hirsch, and followed him around for a second
with outstretched hand. Then he saw the Ger-
man’s insult, but said nothing. On the platform
Trenwith led off. He quoted from a scrap of
paper, which he afterwards put on the little table
at one end of which Hirsch was sitting. Hirsch
reached out for the paper as soon as Trenwith put
it down. Trenwith noticed this and, turning
quickly, he shouted, “ No, you don’t. You won’t
shake my hand ; you don’t shake my paper.”
When the thing began to soak in there was a
tremendous outburst.


“ Z.” : Re decline of some English in
industries (B. 26/11/’O2). There are trades depend-
jng largely upon recent scientific research in
chemistry, and thanks to the suicidal policy of
withholding advanced education from the people,
these trades are rapidly falling into control of
America and Germany. The English systena of
only teaching the poor the three Rs, while
Germany and the United States induce every
child of ability to enter for scientific technical
training, can have no other result. But there is a
feeling in England that the pom might lose their
reverence for the grand old nobility if they got too
much education, and the preservation of the grand
old nobility is the first essential in England.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
LONDON £l6 to £62.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll6.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, Ac., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street. . „ ,
Adelaide Agents : GEO, WILLS & CO., Grenfell-streec.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking, Public Companies, Sec.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$>
CiV
$
BILLS
discounted.
1^
asr.s.-w.
(IJent deplete D.& I.C°m
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTI.EK.EAGH ST., 74
■ “ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
H.* Royal Bank; of Queensland
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 1.5,99.
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£603 351
Head Office: BKISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., VV. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
The Commercial Banking Comp<t n y
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up ...
Reserve Fund. ...
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,025,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,025,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
ii- £Tfes2k, M.L.0. :: ::
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.O.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.O.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNrY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and ch | ef m . I I ns P®9 tc £
Soutar, Accountant ; \V. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughouo the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
lIUITEn INSURANCE
U H I I E, U CO. (Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL “ £300,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks . ■
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. f Jibbs,
Brieht & Co.), Sir John Sbb, Lt.-001. Burns Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jess p, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, i). Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for’Australia
Write for Prospectus . 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees fxecutors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP i. 90,000 0 C
RESERVE FUND (ired i-i company’s
business) ... . • 9
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BOItBOWMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manages
Shipping.
jst. r>. l.
(NORD-DKUTSOHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
TS.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 20th JANUARY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about 15th JANUARY
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC
to follow.
FARES— Capetown
London
New York, ko.
.. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
. 26 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Claes of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Quean’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoon3fleld Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
A the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
q C EA.KTIO STEAMSHIP
A, AND AT LINE.
. ' % i. £/ '
THE FAST
C O 3VX lE* -A. 3XT Y.
MAIL
LINE.
Sydney to Auckland
Auckland to Pago Pago
Samoa to Fanning Island .
Fanning Island to Honolulu
Ilonoluliyto San Franei-co
Overland to New York
New York to London
Passengers Oan break the journey en route.
3£ days
days.
days.
2£ days
5J days
days.
days.
ds
Elaborately appointed Staterooms for occupancy of not more than TWO Passengers
sk is p faSest, p Tnd‘only' ssaas’ snrMMiHR’ ssre
INDEPENDENT ENGINES. TXT _
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE
Send for Illustrated Matter, including New Publication, “If Not, Why Not ? Post F ee,
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
'-Till?—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mol lift! Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability
Offices - -105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Bohns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robbrts
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Biujck Smith, Esq., M.H.it.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miomur.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 01,305 - assuring £27,614,218
Amountspaid.to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses - enuitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
. SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
2,000,000
500,000
Total Capital .. •• £2,500,000
The Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge “treef-.
Mannc-er- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
j p Cannt. (Messrs. Burns, Philpis Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250.T00 ... *380.000
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
E.
Caution. Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BKONOHITU
DIARRHCEA, boara °»
the Government Stamp the naiud
the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
fHLORODYN
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWd
Sept. 28 1895, »ayi:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number simple ailment* form*
its best recommendation.
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches* all Nerve
Paine removed by BUNTER'S
KELIVINE. Of all Stores.
by
UkJ
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I har«
used it successfully for years.”— Prof. W. Wilson, M.P,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WQRSOELI’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, SO,
Or iu Storks.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
Feb. 1, Feb. 22, March 21.
The Route to England via
St. Louis.
Rocky Mountains, Niagara Falls,
AND THE CITIES OF
New York, Chicago, Montreal and
Boston En Route.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application .
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
FEDERAL,
HOULDER, SHIRE LINES.
STEAM to LONDON via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
The Magnificent Twin-screw Steamship
ESSEX,
11,000 Tons, T. YOUNG, Commander,
will be despatched Larly in JANUARY, taking General
and Refrigerated Cargo and Live Stock at
LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
WOOL received at the Stores of Chas. Taylor and Co.,
Has splendid Accommodation amidships for Saloon
and Third-class Passengers, at the following Reduced
Rates Saloon. Third-class.
TO DURBAN or CAPETOWN .. £2O £7
TO LONDON .. -• .. £25 LIU
For Full Particulars Apply to
BIRT and CO., Ltd., Agents,
7 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
nodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored i
Four Weeks toy using
fsd
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, D~l ILLTY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. t reighl extra,
Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
; aV.S.IK.-Faultling & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Porta
S.S. Innamincka, Friday,
Jan. 8, at 5 p.m. (Tran-
shipping at Melbourne).
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
Jan. 16, at 10 a.m. (With-
out Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And PortaNorth to Oalrn9
S.S. Rockton, Jan. 9, at Noon
S.S. Innamincka, Jan. 10.
at Noon.
S.S Gabo, Jan. 23, at Noon.
Best anti Cheapest Itoute to Ooldflelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are Interohangeable.afber the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARTS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £l7.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt St reet, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAP A N^
. BY THE . .
“E. AND n.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
Steamer.
EASTERN
AUSTRALIAN
EMPIRE
Leave Sydney
January 20
February 17
March 16
EVISKi V EiINIJi.i'UJJV run
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe rv* Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
H. NEWMAN’S^
KEYLESS
WORKERS' WATCH
m
m
m
mm
Specially imported by H. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautifully Chased, Oxydised Case,
Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, 5 -plate
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfect timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State should have one
Price 3 0s« (post free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke St., Melbourne
Buckley & Nunn’s).
♦
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage ana
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs,
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
pay wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
IQs.colu.ns street, Melbourne.


Martin’s Apiol and steel puls are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
A NEW BOOK on BREATHING.
m '»—**
By F. Matthias Alexander (who has imparted his new methods for 10 years in Australasia).
See Bulletin, December 17, for Full Particulars and Order Form. Only sufficient copies to he printed to
supply orders received. Read article on “ Prevention and Cure of Consumption in Sydney Daily
Telegraph, Saturday, December 12, page 16, by the author. Pamphlet and Article on Consumption vvi o
warded to any address on receipt of Stamp. Address—
ROYAL CHAfIBERS, corner HUNTER & CASTLEREAGH STS, SYDNEY.
THE
“LONDON
m
m
: %
42/- TO ORDER.
SMART
CLOTHES
For Summer are what we are showing—they are
the best and dressiest that it is possible to make.
There must be extraordinary merit in these
"LONDON” 42/- SUITS
to have gained the reputation they have amoi g
smartly-dressed men for style and quality of
material. We guarantee a perfect fit if you send
for one of our Measurement Forms, together with
a selection of Patterns—Post Free.
LONDON TAILORING
DEPOT,
OPP. G.P.0., HELBOURNE
(ONLY ADDRESS IN THE STATES).
ENO’S
Functional ‘FRUIT
INVALUABLE IN ALL
DERANGEMENTS
OF THE LIVER.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Ac., EVERYWHERE.
SALT.’
f
Concerning Elgin Watches^-
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PBICES :
GENTS.’—4Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels,
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulart to—
Queensland Agents:
SWIFT & GRICE
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
Sweet Tablets.
Simply Eaten.
2 TABLETS A DOSE.
Pleasant to take.
Always Efficacious.
NATURES OWN REMEDY.
A TASTELESS s FAIHLESS APERIENT .
sdf
[MADEFROM a,. V
Tresh FBU'^HERBS
FOR CHILDREN AND ADULTS.]
Highly
Recommended
by LEADING
MEDICAL MEN.
One WELL-KNOWN DOCTOR
writes thus: “The action of
Goldin Frutex is as sure as
the sun will rise.”
Absolutely the BEST REMEDY for Stomach, Liver and Kidney Troubles.
Good for INFANTSftand AGED alike.
A Splendid ANTIDOTE for SEA-SICKNESS. Obtainable Everywhere -Box, 20 Tablets, Is 6d.
Head Office for Australasia—3l7 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TARPAULINS
CART, WAGGON and
MACHINERY
Canvas
Cotton Duok
Patent
Waterproof
Cloth.
ALL HAND-SEWN.
*
■rnjSm
COVERS.
AT SPOT CASH
PRICES
featimatea Sant by
Return Poet.
SEND FOB LIST.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd.,
7 & 9 MARKET STREET,
BYpanery.
The VOLCANIC
AERATING
HACHINE
ym|iin«^nuuinn.,«iHmhnnn.nn.tiiii<r>
W. JAMES, Proprietor.
The VOLCANIC AERATED WATER MACHINE is being
used on Messrs. Spiers & Pond’s Railway Refreshment
Bars throughout the United Kingdom.
&■£? HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS
AERATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the Best and Simplest
Machine in the Market. fgr Pricb
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 671bs. GAS.
CAPACITY OF CYLINDERS 10 GALS. WATER.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Smaller Machines on same principle, £2O.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials from
people who have used the Machine for years.
Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Depot: 130 CECIL. BT., SOUTH MELBOURNE
REMEMBER THE NAME.
You may have an attack of diarrhoea, dysentery,
rr pain in the stomach one of these days, and it
vill be well to remember the name of a medicine
shat will cure you. Say it slowly—Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy. What
would be still better, buy a bottle to-day, it will
be Is. Gd. well invested, and any reputable
•hemist will supply you.*
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
MORRIS’S^
“imperial.” Umperial
sdf
E\>e * *
©intment
' Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
. complete without it. Pots 2/-.
•-—niotn * stores.. Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melb.
EVERYBODY SHOULD READ
REYNOLDS'S
NEWSPAPER
Outspoken, Vigorous Articles.
PRICE ONE PENNY.
3
sd
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
Models
£2.!Oto £5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
[Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia,
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres, A ccessories. Sporting Goods Sc
'Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
•Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dsptt 339 B
CHICAGO, D.8.A* aad LIVERPOOL, ENGLISH*
LADIES 1
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN*
TcL 1198.
THE most charming and siylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
JUST THE THING FOR THE HOT WEATHER
THE CYCLONE
ROTARY HAND FAN
§s^
Only
1/6
or
Two
Fans
for
2/6
Carriage Paid.
The Best Fan Ever
Invented
HO TROUBLE OR FATIGUE.
Produces a Constant Cur-
rent of Wind.
Very Refreshing
■DOTARY FANS hare hitherto
been eo expensive that none
but the wealthy could buy them.
How they aiecheap and more effici-
ent than ever before. Nearly 500,000
of these Fans have been sold in
America. It is the Neatest, Cheap-
est and Best Fan ever devised.
You have merely to pres*
your thumb and the bright
Aluminium Blade* revoiva
with wonder/ul rapidity,
producing a con-
tinuous stream
of cool air. It is
a great improve-
ment upon the
ordinary fan.that
is very tiring to
operate and that
causes almost as
much warmth as it alleviates. Tlie Cyclone Rotary Hand Fan
Is very strongly made and cannot yet. out of order. You
should order at once, or yon may be disappointed; for„
though our stock is a very large one. orders are coming very
briskly, especially from Queensland. The price is only Is. 6d.
each, or Two Fans for 2s. 6d., carriage paid to any address.
Postal Notes of any State may be sent.. W> have the Solo
Agency for these Fans, which are obtainable only from
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Murkan advertising methods are right up-
to-date. An anti-Tammany organisation in New
York showed in a window at its headquarters a
cage containing a live tiger, and over the cage a
placard, on which was printed in flaming red
letters : “Do you want to turn hiin loose again ?
It’s up to you.”
There’s one thing appropriate in Princess
Louise’s notion for a S’African War memorial,
and that is the quotation from Isaiah, which
refers to the people of Israel being gathered from
all quarters of the earth to victimise the Gentiles.
It’s the most direct recognition, to date, of the
Jewish origin of the S’African War.
“Banjo” Paterson in “Those Names”
was mild in comparison with Hall-Jones, M.L.
Minister for Public Works. When bringing
down his statement he cheerfully alluded to the
intention to construct railways, eto., at Orepuki,
Waihoaka, Pareora, Karangahake, Porootara,
Taumarumui, Pariaka, Mangaweka, and Taihape.
A moan from Melbourne :
Those bountiful rains that filled out the Victorian
farmer’s grain and sent up his wheat yield millions of
bushels over the highest previous record brought ruin to
many market-gardeners and fruit-growers, especially
round Melbourne. Melbourne has had no summer, or
even spring, as yet; December was almost wintry—cold,
drizzling rains sweeping the country side day after day.
The cherry crop was almost ruined and plums, loquats,
peaches, and even apples were spoilt wholesale. Lured by
a few days’ sunshine, the gardeners cut their hay, and
before the stooks could be got in, the rain soaked them,
and kept them web for weeks, till they were only fit for
burning. There seems, somehow, always to be a fly in
the ointment of the “magnificent natural resources”;
and even a generally good season emphasises the neces-
sity for supplementing them with manufactures which
don’t wither when it doesn’t rain, or burst when it does.
Considering it was a first attempt, and
allowing for the prejudice against women sitting
in Legislatures, pretty Miss Vida Goldstein polled
well. The sex is never prone to take advice, but
any seasoned political fighter would have told her
that she was making a mistake in urging women’s
rights so persistently during her campaign, and
dwelling on their disabilities. She should have
taken the rights as already conceded, and have
enunciated her platform just as a man would.
Vida has a lot to learn yet, especially on fiscal and
financial matters. Next time, probably, she will
not mention that she is a woman, just as the male
candidate recognises that there is no need to men-
tion that, he is a man. She will be simply a can-
didate.
Several things have been made plain by
the Federal elections in Victoria. The first
which sticks up like a church steeple is that
Toryism has fallen down on its job badly. The
splitting of votes gave the Tories a last chance.
They made a dying kick. In its way it was a
fairly decent kick but not strong enough to boot
the four old Tory hats through the Senatorial
goal. M‘lntyre was the only one of the four who
got anywhere near the seat. Derham’s vote of
77,000 odd was the full strength of the Tory party
in Victoria. MTntyre got a sympathy vote and
also a sprinkling of the Liberal vote i:i view of the
early day Liberalism from which he long ago fell
away. That the Tories polled every available
vote possible, and stuck to their ticket better than
any other party, is shown by the tact that less
than 8000 votes separated the lowest from the
highest man on the ticket.
The Freetrade press had to forego a lot of
interesting copy owing to the necessity for boost-
ing up the Dry Dog party through thick and thin.
When the Globular One was speaking at Red fern
he started to discourse fluently on the increased
cost of living under the present tariff, compared
with what it was under his own alleged ‘ ‘ Free-
trade ” regime. His eloquence was rudely baulked
by a young man passing up price-lists from
Anthony Hordern and grocer Anderson, of
William-street, for both the periods under review,
with the request that he would read some extracts
from them. The Globular One refused to do so,
and when he had finished speaking the stranger
proved from those trade lists that tilings are
actually cheaper now, under the alleged burden
of Protection. Two items, rice and chow-chow
pickles, were one penny dearer than under the
Reid tariff. These were the only cases of in-
creased price that could be discovered.
“ Angourie,” from Maclean :
The election of Lee as the Freetrade M.H.R. for the
Protectionist constituency of Oowper is another striking
proof that the A.P.D.A. is the tool of the Freetrade
party. Protestant Protectionist M’Kinnon was running
against Catholic Protectionist Clarke, and the local
P.D.A. support was going with him. But the Freetrade
Executive in Sydney sent Lee, a perfect stranger to the
electorate, as a candidate, and the local members of the
P.D.A., under orders from their Freetrade bosses in
Sydney, dropped M’Kinnon and took up with Lee. The
latter’s political address consisted mainly of a recital of
his connection with a butter agency, which had assisted
in the establishment of some butter factories, and on
this account he claimed to be a benefactor to the dairying
industry. He did not remind his hearers that these
factories were established when there was a protective
duty on butter. When he reached the Clarence and
found himself in a nest of Protestant Protectionists, who
hesitated to vote for the abolition of the maize and sugar
duties to spite their Catholic neighbors, he offered to be
guided entirely by their wishes in regard to those duties,
and to drop any of his alleged principles that might
prevent him getting in. So he got in as a Freetrader
who was going to inflict the curse of Protection on his
own constituents.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
ver’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Largo
bottles Is. everywhere.
“P.T.F.” writes :
Was watching the election returns being posted outside
a Sydney newspaper office on polling night. Beside me
stood three men whose appearance stamped them as
workmen, and their conversation interested me. They
were discussing the Labor members. Senatorial candi-
date Griffith held a bad position. Said one man : “ Ah,
Griffith’s lost his £3OO a year ; he made a mistake by
resigning, and he’s sorry for it now, I bet.” “Yes,”
said another, “they’re all alike ; they only want the
eight quid a week.” “ Them Labor members has got a
good thing on,” said the third. “ Now, there’s Hughes
and Jim M'Gowen ; they’re makin’ money out of it. I
knew M'Gowen when he was only a workin’ man ; and
now look at him. He’s makin’ money out of you and
me. Now, a man like George Reid don’t make money
out of it ; he lives up to his salary. Anyhow, M'Gowen’s
been there long enough ; he ought to get out and give
someone else a show.” In that scrap of conversation I
thought I saw the root of all the ills that have shadowed
the workman’s existence, and that root is an ignorant,
mean jealousy on the part of a type of workman for any
of his fellows whose intellect and virility have raised him
above the ruck. Once a workman, always a workman—
that is the religion of this contemptible, begrudging
type. “ Bah ! what is he ? I knew him when he was
only a working-man like ourselves.” Haven’t you heard
that phrase often ? I have.
“ Cliass ” : lie Bulletin par on mad spots.
Know a small village near Geelong (Vie,) a 1 wavs
remarkable for weird suicides One man tied the
gun trigger to his toe and went out that way.
Another hung himself with a dog chain, and a
third cut his throat with a hay knife. The next—
a woman—hung herself behind the door in such a
manner that when it was opened, the corpse was
lifted up and looked at the intruder over the top
of the door.
The political libel suit in Westralia opens
up quite a new field of possibilities. Mines
Minister Gregory, with his colleagues’ approval,
sacked a goldfields warden, and, in an “inter-
view,’’ he explained and defended the Govern-
ment’s policy in the matter. That was the libel,
and the ex-warden got a verdict for £2750 for
it. If Governments are to be sued for libel (the
Minister admitted that the State was supplying
the defence), then it will not be long before
Governments start to sue for libel. When, for
instance, a paper, for election purposes, accuses a
Government of inhumanity towards a shipwrecked
crew, and alleges that Ministers, in their collec-
, tive capacity, committed a crime that wasn’t far
short of murder, it looks as though, before long,
that paper will have to prove its words before a
judge and jury.
An Argus reporter was detailed once to
nterview Chief Justice Griffith on Federation,
't was midnight when he got to the C.J.’s. hotel,
o find that his quarry had gone to bed. The
Vkgus man found tne number of Mr. Griffith’s bed-
oom, walked in, turned up the electric light, and
>egan to cross-examine. Remembering that he
vas a Judge, Mr. Griffith used no scandalous
anguage, but absolutely refused to give any in-
formation or “views,” and finally closed the inter-
view by burying his head under the blankets.
I’he baffled reporter retired, but out in the pas-
sage was gladdened by a call, “Mr. Reporter, Mr.
Reporter! ” and hurried back, thinking it was a
ign of relenting. “Mr. Reporter, you have
"orgotten to turn out the light,” said Griffith,
0. J. And the Argus swore softly.


Strength
la an attribute of manhood universally desired.
Few people understand that the only source of
physical strength is food, and that everyone
f
who has sufficient
nourishing food
should be strong.
But there are thou-
sands of puny people
who have plenty of
good food. How is
that explanation?
The explanation is
simple. Food does
not nourish the body
unless digested and
assimilated. Diseases ;
of the stomach and
other organs of diges-
tion and nutrition
hinder the proper di-
gestion and assimila-
tion of the nutrition
contained in the food>.
eaten. Thus , the
strength of food is
lost, wasted. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root -Pills cure diseases of the
stomach and its allied organs completely and per-
manently. They cure so that they stay cured;
They put life in your liver, a move in your bowels,
and make the stomach clean and strong. No
other remedy can be depended on to so thoroughly
cleanse the stomach as these pills, aiding digestion,
and thereby nourishing the whole body. Packed
in amber bottles, and sold throughout Austral-
asia.* ,
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE.
George Smith, J.P., Helensburgh, N.S.W.,
saysr^— il I can confidently recommend Cham-
berlain’s Diarrhoea Remedy. From personal
experience I find that, if taken in time, it not only
cures a bad attack, but also seems'to prevent a
speedy recurrence of the ailment.”*-
RESCH'S SELECT STOCK ALE«» LAC
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST„ REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Fully 20,000 people gathered round M.C.C.
oval before the start of the second test. The proceedings
for the first 45 minutes or so kept the audience deeply
interested. Then the maiden overs began to lose their
charm, the excellence of the ground fielding was
accepted as a matter of course, the heat grew oppressive,
and a general sense of dullness set in for the day
“ Great ” cricket as played at the Melbourne ground on
January Ist is a deadly game of patience, especially for
the onlookers. The batsmen can hardly be said to try
to get runs. They wait for runs to come, whilst the other
side labors to keep runs from arriving. Coldly con-
sidered, it is the reduction of skilled cricket to an
absurdity. If the eleven men who get first use of a
“perfect” wicket are capable of playing—every
one of them—the “ correct ” game for hours at a stretch,
and if the fielding is so close and indefatigable that the
cautious batsmen don’t get enough running to tire them
out and impair the efficiency of their defence, they start
the match with a chance of dragging the innings out for
three, even four, days. They are playing to wear
the perfect wicket into a state of imperfection before
the other fellows can get them out. The highest ambition
of one eleven playing the “true” game, the “ legiti-
mate” game, the “great” game, under typical Australian
conditions, is to achieve an innings of such enormous
length that the pitch, when they have done with it,
cannot possibly permit of true, legitimate, great cricket
being played by the other lot of batsmen, even though
the weather still remains as it was at the beginning. In
short, the sort of batting commended by cricket cranks
is essentially mean in spirit, unfair in 'its results, and
wearisome to the general public who support these gate-
money shows in the hope of getting reasonable entertain-
ment for their money. Slow, stonewall batting of the old
Bannerman order is good in theory and bad in practice.
Carried to its extreme limit by competent professors, it
would be insufferably unfair to the side that got the
worst of the luck. The game as Jessop plays it is bad in
theory and essentially good in practice The issue
between two teams of Jessops would depend as much as
possible on the men, and as little as possible on the luck
of the toss and the chances of the weather. To have
seen a Jessop bat, and to have observed that his average
for the season ranks among the best averages in first-
class cricket is to know that the apostles of the “cor-
rect ” game are talking dishonest nonsense all the time.
They don’t know it for dishonest nonsense, because they
are deficient in brain equipment. Their little minds are
so full of pavilion cant—the cant of leg-breaks, breaks
from the off, deceptive flight of the ball, fine strokes,
masterly placings, &c., &c., that they have no room
left for a proper understanding of the game under
discussion. A cricket match is won bv the side
that gets most runs, and it stands to reason that a short
game is likely to be a truer Test than a long one.
(Cricket is the antithesis of billiards, therefore fools
regard them as kindred games—but this by the way.)
Jessop’s average in Test matches in Australia was 18.44,
scored in the average time of about lOmin. per innings.
Two teams of Jessops, provided with as much bowling
talent as we get in an Australia v. England Test, would
score 800 runs and complete the game in less than two
days. And if anyone knoweth any cause or just impedi-
ment why 22 Jessops should not be permitted to play a
Test match right through on a wicket which neither
weather nor wear-and-tear did corrupt, let him explain
why one Jessop is qualified to play, or let him forever
afterwards hold his peace. Scientific slogging is a beau-
tiful satire on scientific pottering. But the business
policy of showmen and newspaper reporters is opposed
to any vociferous statement of the truth,
* * * *
The “bad behavior,” as the Argus called it,
of those Melbourne holiday-makers who, after waiting
three hours in a mild drizzle for the players to make a
start on a recent Monday, swarmed over the ground,
pulled up the stumps, and—one or two of them —dug
their heels into the pitch, is a good deal more excusable
than it looks. Many had paid one or two shillings to see
some cricket, and the return of their money had been
absolutely refused- which, no doubt, struck them as
plain fraud. Some had been offered pass-out checks good
for the following day, but which were no earthly use to
men who would be working next day. So they got
annoyed. The whole trouble arose through the absurd
system of the V.C.A.—which, not the M.G.C., controls
inter-State matches—of giving complimentary tickets, to
both ground and stand, to all the associated clubs.
Had! the gatemen been told to return the money,
half" the deadheads present—and they. were a
goodly number—would have demanded the money
they never paid, and there wouldn’t have been
enough to go round. There seems to be no way of
coping with the deadhead, either, unless he is shut out
altogether or put in a special paddock by himself. The
simplest way would be to abolish the club deadhead and
to restrict the M.O.C. members to their own reserve.
It can’t be too thoroughly understood that it isn’t the
“ member,” at a guinea a year, or the committee’s rela-
tives and friends, who maintain cricket and keep the
M.C.O. and ground green and fat; it is the general
public, which pays Is. or 2s. 6d. a time. The Melbourne
Club member can attend everything and take a couple of
his womenfolk in at an actual cost of about sd. a time,
and for this he has the pick of every seat in the ground.
As for the Associated club member (Fitzroy, Carlton,
etc.), he has, for his guinea or half-guinea, the use of
his own ground, club house and outfit; and then he has
the nerve to attend a big match “on the never,” and
often take a front seat, while the man who pays has to
stand.
* * * *
Sunday’s heavy rain and early morning con-
tinuation third day played havoc with possibilities of
Englahd-Australia match, and Monday (when 12,000
looked on) saw 18 wickets go down for 196 runs, of which
two batsmen supplied .122 —contributions from the other
16 totalled but 74. Remarkable thing of the day was
Trumper’s fine innings (74;—the effort of his life, all
things considered, and which saved his side the follow on
—by seven runs only. It was a risky experience, but such
risk had to be run in the circumstances, and, having,
averted the certain defeat that going in a second time,
immediately would have meant, runs were not so much
required as the necessity for getting the English-
men on the badly soddened pitch before it im-
proved, so Australia’s innings closed for 122 to”
England’s 315. At stumps draw, the visitors had
five out for 74, and were then 267 to the good. Tyldesley
was 48 (not out), and looked like giving further trouble,
but Warner, Hayward, Braund, Hirst anr( Rhodes were
done with. There was more bad weather on Tuesday,
and England’s second innings finished for 103 j leaving
Australia wanting 297 to win, and with a depressing
wicket. Much the best howling on home side was
Howell’s 4 for 43 ; 14 of his 34 overs were maidens, such
was the wonderful consistency, of length. On opposing
side Rhodes trundled remarkably though four chances
were given off him by Trumper and missed, he bagged’ 7
for 56. It was the first sticky pitch Rhodes had a chance
of performing on in Australia, and he showed himseH to
be all his reputation indicated. Finest hit of'the'match
occurred in Englishmen’s second innings when Tyldesley
lifted one of Saunders’ clean into the pavilion for 5.
* __ * * *
In his first innings of the test match now (at
time of writing) being splashed through, Trumpet’
brought his total to 1006 runs made-in test matches. His
average pans out at a fraction over 35 for 28 completed
innings. ;
* * ’ *■, ~,#
“0.K.”: Went to Melbourne Cricket Club
ground last Saturday to see pome test match. No play
before luncheon time, owing to intermittent
1.15 the rain clouds blew over and the sun shone brightly
so, after a further wait of ten minutes, the urrfpires saun-
tered t 6 the pi tch and looked at it—a most absurd inspec-
tion," considering that the luncheon bell wasaboutto ring.
The teams might as well have lunched .lialf-an-hour
earlier than usual —but they didn’t. They, were not even
sharp to time after their meal, for it was 20 past. 2 ere
play began. Braund lost his wicket, ana walked slowly
back tO pavilion. Await. Presently Knight appeared,
and marched slowly to the wicket. Clean bowled by '
Howell in his first over, Knight retired slowly to pavilion.
Wait. Then Hirst come forth, and was almost arrived ht
the scene of actloO when the umpire at the pavilion end
discovered that bail had been broken when the
previous man vvas\ bowled. Another wait whilst
umpire went to get another bail. Hirst got caught out
and returned to pavilion—very slowly. Wait. Rhodes
made appearance, batted for about 10 minutes,
mu 9 .bvw. at seven minutes to 4 o’clock.
The fieldsmen seized this opportunity to add seven
minutes to the usual afternoon tea adjournment, and
retired to the pavilion at a comparatively quick pace.
They were due to resume their labors at 4.15, but in the
meantime, the clouds burst into tears. The oval remained
deserted until 5.10 p.m., when the umpires slowly went
forth to inspect the pitch, and slowly retraced their steps
to the pavilion, praying (probably) for a further fall of
rain. No rain fell, therefore the crowd waited for play to
recommence. At 5.30 the umpires revisited the wickets,
and found everything in exactly the same state, as was
to be expected. The proceedings were then formally
closed. The record for the day was 93 minutes of test
match, intersected by several long pauses.
* * * *
Had a man like South Australian
Hack or Queenslander M'Donald been in with Trumper
in the first test match, when the champion was going fast
in the second innings, Australia might have scored first
blood ! Those who remember Bannerman of other days
know what a tower of strength he was to his side when he
had someone with him who scored while he played the
rock. Hack is the man who seems to have picked up the
bantam’s mantle.
* « * *
“B.B.”: Somebody should gently tap George
Giffen on the shoulder and ask him to resign from Inter-
State cricket before he loses an otherwise great record.
Years ago, he was S. Australia’s stand-by as batsman
and bowler ; but the Wheat State appears to be unearth-
ing a few good colts. And, on the question of encouraging
young players, an Adelaide paper states that “it is a
curious commentary on Giffen’s position as a selector
that 3 7 oung cricketers have to make their dibut on
grounds other than that of Adelaide, when he declines to
make the Eastern trips, and that they have to stand down
at home after having justified their places.” That is
rather a dog-in-the-manger attitude, but has S. Australia
but one man on its State selection committee ? Giffen
cannot choose a team “on his own," and if the exclusion
of young players takes place it must be with the acqui-
escence of another committeeman.
* * » '
The Victorian Js.P. are a curious crowd.
Among other recent remarkable performances, the Js.P.
at Flemington have just agreed to take £lO down and
the balance by instalments spread over years, by way
of settling a fine of £lOO imposed on a betting man. The
fine was imposed last July, so it was six months before
the betting gentleman even so far recognised the law as
to :pay a trifle on account.
* * * *
Sydney Tattersall’s Cup, Saturday, saw Fanfare
first choice, 3 to 1 against, at flagfall, with Summer Cup
winner Bridegroom half a point longer, and Long Tom at
s’s from beginning to end of the betting. Little Mary
and Tatterdemalion were eleventh-hour scratchings ; the
latter’s elimination was a surprise, as only the night
before he had been backed to win a fair amount, and
’twas known that someone had a “leg in” (through
Pendant's Carrington Stakes success) with him for a
heap of double money. Moreover his trainer was very
sweet on Tatterdemalion’s prospects, but owner, ’tis said,
insisted he should be struck out. Others more or less
fancied were Faithful (B’s), Ivan (10’s), and Donovan (12’s).
Praleen set the pace for ljm., and subsequently Sir
Leonard, Ivin, Faithful, and Donovan were in the lead.
Rounding the home turn Bridegroom and Faithful were
together, with Long Tom and Fanfare close up. At the
half distance Fanfare’s nose showed ahead of Bride-
groom, who tired some, while Long Tom, with a lucky
run on the rails, shot to the front and won three lengths
from Fanfare, with Bridegroom a none too good third,
and Faithful fourth. These were the best backed four of
the field. Bridegroom’s was a much better performance
than it appears on paper ; he had lOlbs. penalty, and in
5£ furlongs came from absolute last. Time for the two
miles, 3.32 J, was slow compared with speed of previous
raciss. Postillion got over the ground nearly 3sec. faster
last year, while Hoop Iron’s win was 2£sec. better.
* * * •
Biggest prize-winners over Tatt.’s Club two
days’ meet are Messrs. L. G. Rouse, £760 (through Long
Tom’s success), and Jas. Brennan, £468, through Pen-
dant’s Carrington Stakes win. Next largest haul was Dr.
Power’s £l2o—Mangosteen (second in Nursery Handicap)
and Fanfare (second in Cup).
* * * *
Though added money for Tatt.’s Steeple on
Saturday was £lOO, only five of nine carded lined up, and
but two of these (Rising Fund and Rise Up, as named)
finished. Winner (first choice at sto 2 against) secured
same event last year. Teamster and Galtee More came
down first attempt at the paling fence (foot of the hill),
and there also Monarch (8 lengths to the good), who had
so far led always, met disaster in the next round.
Ultimately the favorite landed the coin easily from Rise
Up, who might have shown better had he been made
more use of.
* * * *
Interesting that same three nags which filled
plaices in Summer Cup previous week were 1, 2 and 3 in
Tatt.’s Cup last Saturday ; but while Bridegroom just
pipped Long Tom in the first-named race through his
rider (Barden) being caught napping, and Fanfare ran
third, Lone Tom was first, Fanfare second and Bridegroom
next in Tatt.’s Cup. Winner of Tatt.’s Cup is stoutly bred
on both sides. His sire (Projectile) is a son of Chester and
a Musket mare, while his dam (Crossfire) is a Goldsbrough
mare. He is a 4yr.-old brother to Straightfire and
Ordnance, and was bred at Widden Stud by Messrs.
J. and W. Thompson and belongs to Mr. L. G.' Rouse of
Biraganbil. At two years Long Tom gathered a couple of
races, and though no wins came his wa.v last season Rose-
hill (November), Warwick Farm and A.J.O. Holiday
Handicaps had previously fallen to him present racing
season. Long Tom had 8.2 J up on Saturday, the heaviest
any winner of Tatt.’s Cup has carried bar The Prophet
(8.8), Quiver (9.2), and Old Clo (8.5); this in face of fact
that the race has been run every year since 1868.
.** * *
Carrington Stakes, 6 fur., the choice thing of
first day of Sydney Tatt.’s meeting, attracted 21 starters.
Features of betting were complete knock out of Sarto
and advance of Kogarah-trained Pendant from 12 to 1
against to first favoritism, 9to 2. Next best backed was
Maitland sprinter Suivre (5 to 1), then came Bassini, who,
despite his bad- showing in Villiers Stakes (1 mile) a week
before, carried a.heap of money, invested previous night
and on the course. Sir Leonard, Suivre, and Neruda got
going first, but inside initial furlong, and despite a bad
start, Pendant was streaking ahead of everything and
momentarily increasing the gap. In the straight the
speedy daughter of Far Niente and Necklet was four
lengths clear of Suivre and Nerudai, with Idolise and
Possum close, and that remarkable mare Air Motor just
beginning to show out from the ruck. At the end
Pendant won easily by three lengths from Air Motor,
who, with the steadier of 10.5, made a brilliant effort.
Prince Lyon was third, while Suivre, Possum, and
Yanawa beat the rest. Bassini was never seen, but
Idolise shaped excellently to the half-distance where she
dropped back. ‘ • v
* * * ik
Pendant was bred at Hobartville by Mr. W. A.
Long. Mr.’ Stanton bought her as a yearling, but she
failed to do anything for him, and then went into the
possession of Mr. James Brennan, of the National
Sporting Club, for whom she won Carrington Stakes
12 months ago, the V.A.T.C. Oakleigh Plate, and some
minor things. Pendant’s time (1.13 f) beat her own last
year’s figures in same race by and Was only a
fraction of a second slower than Precaution’s 1896 record,
when the lastnamed had a gale of Wind behind her.
Pendant’s 9st. is the biggest load borne by any Carrington
Stakes winner.
* * * *
Alleged that owner of Pendant had £4OO on
his mare, which, if true, seeing she was backed from
twelves down to 4J to 1, means he must have made a
huge haul from his brother bookies. Stated also that
stable connections generally were very confident the nag
would win. Commission was worked cleve : ly by different
people. Remarkable how the public generally, “books”
particularly, and majority of “guns” and touts get so
badly left when Pendant is “after it” ; ’twas the same
with Carrington Stakes last year (though not to such an
extent), and subsequently with V.A.T.C. Oakleigh Plate.
Owner denies having invested, but the money came from
somewhere, and a very well-informed quarter too,
judging by the way it was put down.
Bassini’s poor displays in Villiers and Carring-
ton Stakes last week, though heavily backed for latter
event, and Dumont’s bad last in Welter on Saturday,
despite that a good amount of coin went on him, prompts
the belief that this pair are going to turn out as did their
sire Orzil, who shaped brilliantly at two years, but fell
off considerably afterwards. Last year saw Bassini and
Dumont among the most promising of N.S.W. youngsters,
but they’ve been found very much wanting so far this
season.
* * * *
Recent four days at Randwicb saw Barden
most successful among jockeys. He scored five times,
one more than Bracken and two ahead of Houseman.
Bradshaw, J. Montgomery and T. Clayton won twice
each. Of sires Grafton was easily best with four winners,
while Ayr Laddie, Projectile, Fusilier, Haut Brion,
Courage and Orzil had two each.
* * » *
New Year’s Day fixtures at Flemington had
some interesting results, although there were no tight
finishes. The easy victory of Silenus in the Standish
Handicap recalled to mind the bad performance of the
same horse at Caulfield six weeks previously, when his
owner and jockey were “ cautioned.” In the Bagot
Handicap there might have been a fine struggle between
the two favorites—Patronus and Miltiades—but Rupert
Clarke’s 6-year-old broke down when the pinch came,
and the well-treated son of Patron won comfortably.
* * * *
Doncaster Handicap and Sydney Cup nomina-
tions closed on Monday. For former event there are 112,
as against 89 last year, and for the Cup 76 have been
entered, as against 63 12 months ago
* * * •
Died, Sunday night, at Parramatta, well-known
old trainer, “ Billy ” Miller, after a lengthy illness. Rose-
hill was his headquarters for years, and there he trained,
among others, such past good ones as Sloth, Uabba, Bal-
moral, Precaution, Pretence, Raven, Jack, Killarney,
Bettina, Yanko, and Selkirk.
* * * *
J. J. Miller’s Diary and Datebook for 1904 is
the same instructive little pocket companion as usual, or
even more so. The approximate populations of principal
towns in Australasia and Maoriland are listed, together
with all sorts of time-tables and ready references.
* * * *
Cypher, winner of rich Perth Cup, beat a field
that was only one short of the record—when Carbine
scored 13 years ago. She is a 4-year-old by'Malvolio
from Initial, by Emulation from Monogram, by Talk o’
the Hills, and full sister to Novitiate, who closed on the
same race last year.
* * * *
At the Caledonian Society’s, sports held at
Grafton (N.S.W.), on New Year’s Day, the athletic events
were won by T. Donohue, D. Donohue, P. Ryan* P.
O’Keefe,'T. Donohue, P. Ryan, J. Donnelly, T. Donnelly,
and J. Noonan. Think of Donohues, Donnellys, Ryans,
and O’Keefes scooping up guid Scawtch bawbees ! Not a
Mac amongst them. P. Ryan also won the Cumberland
wrestling. The real Scotchmen must have drunk them-
selves unconscious in the early part of the day.
• • •
Fact of Wheat State bowling team winning
once and playing a draw in the “ rub ” against Victoria,
last week, demonstrated that their victory at home last
Easter over the Cabbage Garden’s picked 16 was no fluke,
and also evidences remarkable advancement, for they’ve
only had bowling in Adelaide a few years—the game
received its first fillip from Waverley (Sydnev) Club.
* » ♦ ’*
Sixteenth annual prize meeting of Western
Rifle Association opened at Bathurst on Thursday and
closed on Saturday. Features were an absolute plague
of flies all three days and success of hoary-headed old
shots—front-rankers when most of those opposed to them
were at their mother’s apron-strings. Ancient Lieut.
Rickwood performed remarkably, and was top scorer
right through ; he got away with aggregate in King’s
match (first day), Western champion aggregate (300 of
possible 340) second day, and rapid-firing match, and
another event on third day.
* * * *
Match at Sydney Gaiety A.C. Monday night,
’tween middleweights Ike Stewart (black) and Melbourne
Jack Willis, didn’t draw up to expectations ; but it was
a good fight always, and exciting frequently. Willis led
mostly, and once (in the third round) floored his man.
But the negro came again, full of sand, and banged the
white round the ring till the latter pulled himself
together, and, boring in strongly, scored freely and
effectively. The tenth round saw the end —one on the
jaw, succeeded by a heavier punch in the wind, broke
the ink-hued bruiser up completely, and the towel of
submission was dropped into the ring.
* * * *
Dan Creedon-Soldier Jack Thompson fight at
Sydney National S.C. last week filled the hall and raged
fiercely from end to end. Creedon (35 years old) looked
as if he had lived 50, but for all that had gotten himself
into fairly good condition. His clear eye and healthy
tinted skin endorsed his statement that he had trained
honestly for 10 weeks, but he’s physically too old for fight
now, though not old in years. Thompson never stripped
nor fought better: he weighed 11.5 J to t’other’s 12st.
Their work was clever always though they scrambled
occasionally. First couple of rounds were Creedon’s and
third, fourth and fifth went Thompson’s way, mainly
because his comparative youth stood the strain
better, albeit every one of those jolts and short-
arm punches, with all the weight of the bigger
man’s body behind them, left an impression. “ I’d sooner
fight Cripps twice than Oreedon once ” remarked Thomp-
son ; “those little hits of his take it out of you,
one on the head in the second nearly settled
me.’’ The sixth round brought a sensation. For some
seconds before, betting men had offered 2 to 1 on
Thompson without response. The combatants battled
roughly as badly rattled men could, and were close up to
each other always, when suddenly an artistically placed
l#t short-arm jolt (the effort of a master) landed hard on
the point and Thompson went down. He essayed to rise
at “ 8,” and Dan moved as if to meet him ; then Thomp-
son went down again—he was “ out ” —but the referee
remained silent,, and they battled through to the end.
The minute’s spell brought an admonition from the con-
trolling official. “ Oreedon, you had better be careful! ”
he said. Why? Everyone looked astonished. They
hadn’t been at it long in the seventh when the referee
called them off and declared the match “ no fight,” which
paralysed the house and brought hoots from 2600 throats.
Sydney has seen no more genuine, and few more exciting,
pug struggles. The referee must have been dreaming ;
there wasn’t the merest tinge of justification for his
verdict.
* *
Half-caste Maori pug Ruenalf and lathy negro
Felix served up a sensation in their fight at Melbourne
Queen’s Hall, Monday night. Though Ruenalf showed
well occasionally, t’other was always his master ; but
fact that Felix’s fighting kit is short of anything like a
knock-out punch caused the thing to become cruel, for
the elongated bruiser dude kept jabbing till the Maori’s
left eye closed, a couple of teeth were removed, and the
bones of his left hand broken, when police interference
ended it. Ruenalf hadn’t it in him to fend the other’s
onslaughts, much less attack. And this is what Austra-
lasian heavyweight supremacy has come too. Any good
middleweight (’Murkan Jack O’Brien, who is expected
shortly, f’rinstance) could beat the whole bunch in a
week without much effort, now that Billy McColl is un-
fortunately out of the game. There are no Foleys,
Jacksons, Slavins, or Goddards these times—not even
the faintest indication of one.
* * . * *
The standard of Sydney speed swimming is
very high just now. Combination of five from one club
only (East Sydney) for next Saturday’s 500yds. Flying
Squadron Championship includes two men capable of
breaking a minute for the hundred, a third who can get
over the journey in 1.2 1-5, while the other two always
beat 1.8.
» * * *
Major Taylor reappeared at Sydney Cricket
Ground New Year’s night, following afternoon and Mon-
day night, and pedalled remarkably, all things considered.
He figured in Xmas Handicap Half-mile (first night), but
couldn’t bridge the gaps. N.S.W. Wheel Race (lm.) saw
him better placed, and as the result of a hair-raising
sprint, with a great “ jump ” at the end, he qualified by a
wheel from Boidi, amid intense excitement. Condition
wouldn’t permit of a start in five miles scratch event.
Saturday saw the black out three times without one heat
win, despite that he made desperate efforts always and
flashed brilliantly occasionally, but his bodily fix wasn’t
equal to sustained effort, which will, however, judging
from appearances, come soon. A few weeks hence
may see the flying son of Ham at his top. Stripping
thrice Monday night Taylor did no good though he made
a big bid once. In Holiday Handicap (lm.) he picked up
30 yds. on Mutton in half a lap and, later, withdrew after
some hard pacing which undoubtedly secured the event
for Mutton. Negro’s prospects in final of N.S.W. Wheel
looked and proved hopeless, he turned it up after I+.
laps. Five mile scratch race would surely have been
Taylor’s but for his being pocketed, and even then he
only went under by a wheel.
* * » *
Yankee bike-rider Lawson has a genuine
grievance against the Melbourne race-promoters. He
states that “ the officials were so afraid that either he or
M'Farland might win that they not only handicapped
them cruelly, but also placed them in heats wherein there
were impossible gaps to be bridged.” Taking the state-
ment as only fairly'accurate (since visiting riders mostly
have grievances) it points to a system of unfairness and
prejudice which should be unworthy of a promoting body.
The cracks draw the huge attendances, and if they are
unnecessarily hampered the coffers are certain to suffer.
• » » *
“F.C.” : One hilarious item relieved the solemn
monotony of a long, sad day’s test cricket. The umpires
had come out between the showers on Saturday and in-
spected the pitch, viewed it sideways and obliquely, and
punched it, then solemnly and silently retired. The rain
stopped for awhile, and the crowd kicked its heels and
yelled. Then a couple of mellow individuals jumped the
fence at the far side, and, arm-in-arm, solemnly marched
up to the pitch, tested it with their ginghams, sifted the
dry sawdust out, then beckoned the players from the
pavilion. The 17 constables who promptly rushed the
ground had no sense of humor, and hustled the two
jokers off. Then, amid a chorus of hoots, the real
umpires appeared and pulled up the stumps. Test cricket
is a great game, undoubtedly; but it's too beastly ex-
hilarating.
An interesting joke, just as The Bulletin
goes to press, is John Haynes’ letter to the Sydney
papers, stating that the mournful gathering of a
few tired persons and sundry scoffers at the
Sydney School of Arts was a vast, overwhelming
demonstration in favor of secession, and that the
cause of secesh is booming. Thus does John
break into adjectives : . ,
The magnificent response made by the electors last
Wednesday at the preliminary meeting to arrange for a
mass demonstration at the Town Hall was a sign of the
national upheaval against the monstrous injustice of the
Federation conditions as affecting New South Wales. To
find that a meeting originating among the people them-
selves, and not sanctified by what some people call repre-
sentative men, should attract crowds to throng every
available space in the hall, to fill the aisle, and compel
hundreds to go away unable to approach within yards of
the door, was an event of astounding significance.
John’s new idea is to get up petitions for signa-
ture. Which is surely the mildest way to revolushe
yet invented.
Joey Carruthers was interviewed by
Sydney Telegraph by way of an early New Year
festivity, and though he spread himself to about a
column and a half he can be boiled down to a very
small space.
(1) Joe, who was a member of that Parkes-M‘Millan
Ministry which had a deficit every year of its existence
(its shortage one year was nearly £500,000) and which ran
up N.S.W.’s borrowing (with no big land resumptions to
pay for) to nearly £5,000,000 a year—Joe, the remnant of
the most vilely profligate Government N.S.W. ever had,
is shocked at the finance of the present Government.
(2) Same Joe, who belonged to the Reid Government
which had a deficit every year save one (one of its
deficits was over £600,000), is not only shocked—he is all
broken up.
(3) Joseph, whose party has lived for years on the
Yellow Pup and is now supported mostly by Dill Macky,
complains that the Labor party has brought the sectarian
element into politics.
(4) Joey says he is amused at the “crass ignorance ” of
the Labor party, in saying it doesn’t understand what he
means when he advocates “ Restoration of the Principles
of Responsible Government.” Here he has something to
go upon, and his opponents do show ignorance. What
Carruthers means is, obviously, that he hopes to get office
by cringing to some third party for its support, as he and
his friends did for five years in Reid’s time.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
vW"
m
*
m
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER
AND A PEN CARBON BOOK _
Makes a complete outfit with which any MAN, WOMAN or CHILD can write a letter, and at the
time make an exact copy without leaving the slightest sign of copying on the original.
It keep 9 a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank cheques. It leaves no vague.
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
It will save any house or family much money by its indisputable record.
Bole Agents for
Australasia:
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE.
& Q
v*
t>*
H.
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Guttapercha Co.,
HANOVER
Y^>
u
H
MAKERS OF
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Cordon Bennett Cup, 1903)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output—NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES.
DEPOT
Wallace Pneumatic Tyre Co.,
,LL3TfITES 01 &. Flinders St., Melbourne.
Makers of All Kinds of Rubber Goods, such as
STEAn HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD RUBBERS
FOOTBALL BLADDERS
RUBBER BELTING
RINGS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBING
I.R. BALLS
General Agents for Australia
HESSELMANN & CO.
34 Queen St.,
bourne
THE BICYCLE YOU SHOULD BUY.
The 1903 Model RED BIRD BICYCLE
fsd
f
Built for Speed and Strength. Every part of a RED BIRD can be duplicated. The Bearings and Chain-
Wheels are absolutely accurate, thus the RED BIRD runs very easily and lasts for years. Cash or terms.
Second-Hand Bicycles
taken in Part Payment.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St., Sydney
This is how the Age keeps up interest in
its serial:—
He refused to recognise her wickedness, and even his
own. When she announced her full acceptance of the
edict, her determination to evince penitence by absolute
submission, he could only burst out:
(To be Continued.)
tcSt tfei
TpOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
- 1 - ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King- Street Coffee Palace,” TB®
lituated at 50 KING STREET, and near the Genera! Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
HAVE YOU REAP —-
The New Household PamphIet—
“NEEDLEWORK of the TWENTIETH
CENTURY.” F. C. Wright.
FREE on Application— J. W. EEDY, Printern,
Market and Keint Streets.
SHARPSHOOTIN6
sdf
For Sport and War.
m By W. W. GREENER
HITS THE MARK!
NETT.
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/.
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
BP you wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W. W. GR :s:H = ;P3
World-Renowned GUriS and i?lF_ .S,
a Purge .Stock of which are always kept ou
htui I. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Coliins Strsst,
(.greener’s Representative'..
W E advertised last week that a Bar of
Williams’ Barbers’ Soap
Weighed “16 Honest English Ounces.”
WE WERE WRONG, and we desire to thank our
friends the Customs Authorities for putting: us right.
The Collector at the Port rules that on every case
containing 100 Bars of Williams’ Shaving Soap'(each
Bar being sold to our friend the Barber as A POUND
OF SIXTEEN OUNCES)
WE MUST PAY DUTY ON A WEIGHT OF 114 lbs.
sd
WILLIAMS’ is the only
SHAVING SOAP that pays
DUTY on a greater weight
than the Barber pays for.
THE PRICE PER BAR
REMAINS THE SAME.
As good citizens we cheerfully contribute the extra 3/6
per case to the Commonwealth Revenue. The Agents,
The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
PRICE Is. Id. Post Free,
CHAS GILBERT’S
STOCK-TAKING SALE
;h(p zpipicO
COMMENCES
MONDAY, JANUARY 4th.
when, as usual, the values offered in my Specialities, namely,
TAILORING, HATS and MERCERY, MEN’S READY-TO-
WEAR CLOTHING, and JUVENILE CLOTHING,
will not be equalled by any GENERAL STORE in the States.
My reputation for Straight-going is a guarantee
that all mail-orders will receive the benefit of exactly the same
reductions as though bought over the counters by the keenest
city buyers, and will be posted, carriage paid, as usual.
Write, describing your exact wants and the prices you wish
to pay. I’ll do the rest and guarantee
“Money’s Worth or Money Back.”
for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms.
i
J
B
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
fsd
Sands’ Sydney Directory is this year larger
and more comprehensive than ever, and, as far as it can
be tested, just as accurate and rather more useful. It
contains all that the experience of 44 years has suggested
to the publishers ought to be contained—not merely lists
of names and addresses, arranged first alphabetically in
the bulk, then under professions and trades, and finally
by streets, but also lists of magistrates, of pay-days,
country traders, of Government institutions, etc., and of
pastoral occupiers. In the Sydney and suburban section
the publishers say there are now 97,796 names and
addresses, and The Bulletin will take their word for it.
They add that it is “an indispensable work of reference
to every business man in the State,” and The Bulletin
doesn’t need to take their word for that. The fact
speaks for itself.*
Bruce Smith scored the biggest majority
of any of the Dill-Macky-George-Reid candidates
in N.S.W. And how he must-now kick himself
at the thought that he went to the unnecessary
degradation of explaining that he never sent a
child of his to a R.C. school—as if he had been
accused of keeping a house of ill-fame! The
Bweets of victory must indeed be spoiled to many
a Reidite candidate as he looks at his big majority
and calculates that he needn’t have been nearly as
mean a dog as he was to get in. (
With J. W. Tyas, the registrar, now dead,
only one of the Adelaide University’s early staff
is left. Most of them passed out comparatively
young—David Kelly, the classical professor;
Roby Fletcher (Literature); and Tate (Science),
but he was older. Horace Lamb (Mathematics)
resigned and went to Manchester (Owens) Uni-
versity. Thomas Elder and W. W. Hughes,
the men who put up most of the money for the
foundations, are also both gone. So far, perhaps,
the greatest scholar this youngest of. Australian
Unis, has produced is Hudson Beare, who won an
early travelling scholarship, went to England, and
stayed there ; he is now Regius Professor of Engi-
neering at Edinburgh University. Most of the
other brilliant scholars are dead. Brilliant
scholars have a way of dying young.
On various days from April 5th to 10th, Isles,
Love, and Co., of Brisbane, will auction the well-known
Colinton station, on the Brisbane River, Queensland, in
farm lots of from 100 to 3251 acres each. The country is
described as most things that farm country should be—
well-watered, well-grassed, free from animal and vege-
table pests, and handy to rail; and the terms are
remarkably liberal. Illustrated pamphlets are now
available.*
Announcement Extraordinary.— On account
of the vast volume of medical business accruing from the
Southern and Western States of the Commonwealth, the
principals of the Freeman and Wallace Medical Institute,
Elizabeth and Bathurst-streets. Sydney, have opened at
the corner of Bourke and Elizabeth-streets, Melbourne,
opposite G.P.O., a large branch of their Institute.
Patients residing in the above-mentioned States may in
future consult at that address some of the most eminent
medical authorities in the treatment and cure of Nerve,
Blood, and Stomach diseases practising in Australia.
Consultation and advice is free, and each patient will be
under the especial care of a thoroughly qualified medical
man registered by Australian, English and American
Medical Boards.*
One of the Christmas boxes Melbourne
got was a reminder of its boom finance: Fred.
Illingworth, fresh from being elected Chairman
of Committees in the Westralian Assembly, came
across to ask the Vic. Insolvency Court for a
release of his estate. When, as one of the princes
of the boom, Illingworth left Melbourne early in
1890 he reckoned himself worth about a quarter
of a million. He owed the Bank of 8. Australia
£101,352, and the Real Estate, Mortgage and
Deposit Bank £154,404 ; the securities they held
were supposed to be worth £362,594 when he gave
them, and they nominally increased afterwards.
But Illingworth felt that the infant he was
nursing was likely to give trouble, so he went to
Europe in the hope of finding somebody who was
wanting a child of that sort. He had no luck.
On the way out the bubble burst, and Illingworth
got off the steamer in the West and stayed there.
All that the trustee ever got out of the estate was
£105, and he had to refund some of that. What
the two banks got is another story, and neither
of them is alive now to tell the tale. Illingworth
got his discharge.
HOSL
00E.5 NOT
!k. burst i
rDUNLOF
HOSL
tor o'uAirrYj
&!pricl
ONE BIG
ADVANTAGE
in using our Hose
is that . .
f
m
m
CANNOT BE EXCELLED FOR
STABLE or
GARDEN USE.
The Material, Workmanship, and Price are right. Ash
your storekeeper to get you “ Dunlop 4 *. brand. Sample
piece of hose on application.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyro Co. of AML*.**
'Bclbourne, Sydney, Adelaide.,Perth, Brisbane,
Cnristchurch. N.Z.
it is always FRESH
and FREE FROn
PERISH, thus ensuring
longer use than if the im-
ported article is used.
TWNLCr
HOSt
IN FOUR
..GRADES,
SYDNEY HOUSE:
150 CLARENCE STREET.
r DUNLCF
HOSE
lASTS TOR,
YEARS A


ONE WORD ONLY.
If you stop and think a minute, you will realise how impossible
it is to depend upon certain words in the English language. There
are some words which have been used so promiscuously that they
have lost all significance. .....
Take our English word “GlRL”—it means a female child
anywhere between 3 and 21 years of age; but, nowadays, we call
them all “girls” up to 100. When the baby’s sex is asked, we say “IT
is a girl,” and, when you engage a 65 year old cook, she is still “a
girl. • •••••••
Go into a Restaurant and ask for lamb, and you will probably
get a two-year-old sheep—ask for chicken, and you are sure of
getting hen. . . . . I
If you are a smoker, you will have found out by now, that
according to the Tobacconist, everything is “THE BEST,”
“COOLEST SMOKING,” “SWEETEST,” and a few other super-
latives in common use. The fact is, that you cannot, in the
least, depend on adjectives when tobacco is up for discussion;
but use one word only . , ...
“HAVELOCK”
and you nave solved the problem. You will be handed a Tobacco
that needs no adjectives, no bolstering up, and no other evidence than
your own taste and observation. . . . . .
EVERYBODY SMOKES “HAVELOCK”
because it just SUITS everybody, and that’s all there is to it.
Plug and Cut.
Aromatic and Dark
John Davidson has published some verses
under the title of “ A Kosary.” One “ pome ” is
called “ Overheard in Epping Forest,” which has
this verse by the nightingale :
Tee-oo, tee-oo; tee-oo-coo-too,
Tsee, tscatsy, pitsirrurst,
Coo-orr-orr, ptksooa, coo-roo-true,
Tsatsoo, dlodlizidurst ?
Dlodlizidurst! How noble, and convincing !
The Tantanoola (Vic.) tiger, which was
thought to be a vision of the past, has been making
Xmas reappearances at Snake Valley. This time
the reports on the irrepressible animal are less
conflicting than of yore. It ranges from “a pan-
ther rather than a tiger” to an “undoubted tiger,
although much smaller than the Bengal species.”
But, thus far, it has continued to be one of the
things that people see when they are abroad with-
out a gun.
“War E.” : Seeing that the N.S.W.
Lands Department has taken such violent offence
at some remarks of mine on the Ganmain Reserve,
may I be permitted to ask the “Dept, of Smells
a few impertinent questions :—
(1.) Does it take the Dept 18 months to prepare for
settlement a comparatively small area of 37,000 acres ?
(2 ) Had not the proposed exchange with the foreign
financial co. reached that stage that it merely required
one signature to sanction it? ....
(3.) Was not Cabinet influence brought to bear to
prevent the affixing of that signature ?
(4 ) Why did the Dept, ask Forester Osborne to send in
a report on the advisability of retaining this area of
agricultural land for a Forest Reserve ?
(5.) Why, again, was his glowingly favorable report not
adopted ?
“Athos” on Sunday morning in Mel-
bourne :
It is a strange experience, this quiet of Sunday morning
in Melbourne, after the church bells have ceased their
insistent clamor, calling the well-dressed of humanity to
their weekly mutual admiration meeting. Not being one
of the chosen, I idle along the streets noting a strange
stillness hanging over the city. All the humans (even
the Magdalenes crouched on the kerbstone recounting
their scarce-completed orgy of last night) seem listless.
The vag. spits without his usual vehemence. His favorite
oath is uttered carelessly and without meaning. Even
our poor old Yarra permeates the deadly still atmosphere
with a holy restraint in its smell. Cabs drawn by sad-
eyed Dido-like horses, too deep in their grief to even
heed their blear-eyed drivers, struggle along Ehzabeth-st.,
never apparently picking up a passenger. Even a
Chinese fails to rouse the somnolent pushite from his
Sabbath calm. This is the hour in which the lion lieth
down with the lamb. The constable exchanges opinions
with the hawker he summoned last night, and a friendly
oath follows our Chow to his opium den. All the world
says “ Blime ” in a friendly spirit. It is a very sw;eet
half-hour to us, the flotsam and jetsam of a great city ;
but how soon it ends ! The church doors open. Respec-
r c-OOH lb enuo . i'*'- vuu ‘ , : _ r , ... 1
lability emerges, clothed in purple and fine belltopper.
' one hears in the rustle of silk, Bold, I thank
A'niost one utais — , - — - ,
Thee that I am not as other men are, a publican and a
(.inner ” Tottie breaks off her discourse of last night s
“ joy,” and, with a sigh, I return to respectability to the
tune of the now running cable tram.
PREPARE FOR EMERGENCY.
What would you do if taken with a severe attack
of Colic or Diarrhoea, and your physician could
Jolic or lllttiiiiwa, nuu ,rv - ~ZC
not readily be summoned ? _ Provide yourself with
G f Chamberlains Colic, Diarrhoea
a bottle' of Chamberlain's Uoiic, Diarrhoea
Remedy, and you will then be prepared for such
in emergency. It always gives prompt relief.
Sold everywhere at Is. 6d. *
“ J.F.D.” : Yesterday I ran to earth the
lady who advertises, year after year, “ a magnifi-
cent piano ” for sale. She is always compelled to
sell either on account of “illness, “ breaking up
home,” or “ departing for England.” Some
months ago she had a piano at North Sydney.
I went over with a friend to inspect. She wanted
£30 He thought it worth 30s., so no business
resulted. I next struck her in East Sydney (S.M.
Herald again the medium of introduction), and
though she seemed somewhat changed, I knew
her at once. She was offering a different piano,
which was worse than its predecessor. When I
met her in a railway suburb yesterday on account
of a tearful ad. regarding the sacrifice of a mag-
nificent upright grand through sickness, I knew
I had run her to earth. I told her I was sorry for
her persistent bad luck, and she was amused.
Said she did it in conjunction with other things to
get a living. Her husband bought old wrecks for
next to nothing, and fixed them up. She said she
had sold over twenty pianos during the past twelve
months. I am going into the business myself
now that I know the ropes, and I intend, by
unique advertising, to cut out all competitors. I
have already fixed up these catchy advts.:
Grand Piano to be sacrificed for almost nothing, owing
to Proprietor having been eaten by a lion.
Magnificent Pianoforte, quite new, to be sold for a song,
the property of a widow who is leaving immediately for
Homebush .
For Sale, immediate, owing to stomach-ache in the
family, splendid Piano worth £100, going for £25. If
the stomach-ache gets worse will be further reduced.
Piano, magnificent instrument, property of a lady who
was murdered, price £20.
To be Sold gratis, costly six-barrelled revolving Piano,
the property of a gentleman who intends committing
suicide.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
London Morning Leader states that a
movement is on foot among West End tradesmen
to institute a black-list of “sassiety people”
who don’t pay up —
Court costumiers suffer in an especial degree ; the
number of these elaborate and expensive garments that
have not been paid for is said to be incredible A peti-
tion, it is stated, is on foot which is to be presented to
the Lord Chamberlain, asking -that he shall institute a
list upon which shall be placed the names of ladies who
attend Court at the expense of their costumiers and
jewellers, asking that the King shall debar those ladies
from attending at Court functions
The beautiful honesty of the gentlemen and ladies
of England.
The German seems to have a vast capacity
for losing himself. Every day the “ Missing
Eriends” columns of the daily papers contain
appeals (generally issuing from the Teutonic con-
sulates) to Eritz, late of Breslau, to had himself
■with great haste. Also Hans and Ludwig, of
Glogau and Augsburg respectively, are requested
to come up out of space and send their addresses
to their relatives. It would save much advert sing
expense if Hans were kept on a sort of heel-rope
and allowed to graze only within a certain area.
There is a good deal of the placid cow nature
about Hans, anyway, so he wouldn’t mind ; pro-
vided his peg was shifted occasionally, when the
grass on the original area ran out.
The voice (and feet) of “ T.D.” : —
I have developed malignant corns through having to
use Bent’s suburban trains, which nowadays are so in-
frequent and so overcrowded that the average man who
isn’t a downright churl has to stand nearly every time he
travels. I journeyed by train six times yesterday. First
time there were 19 people in a compartment with accom-
modation for 10 ; next time there were 14 ; next 13 ; and
the next I managed to squeeze into a seat at Flinders-
street, but had to give it up for partition among three
buxom females who boarded the train at Richmond.
Going townwards to the theatre at night, I had to stand
in the corridor of a Gippsland train, and going home
again was parboiled in a compartment with about a score
of occupants, several of whom were corpulent Reformers.
Blessed be Bent and all his works.
PURE LIME-FRUIT JUICg
DO yOU DRINK LIME JUICE ?
sdf
THEN DRINK THE BEST'
*%etnts —Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell Co., Sydney
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
sdf
Eureema Ointment.
A Special Cure for ECZEMA and other
SKIN DISEASES.
Splendid testimonials held. In jars, 2s. and 3s. 6d. If
your chemist does not keep it send 2d. for free sample
and full particulars to
HARDEN & CO., Agents for Australia,
34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dr. Ricord’s Marvellous Medicine
Si- Bottle ; Postage 1/-
CURES PILES
Bleeding, Itching, &c.
Skin and Blood Diseases,
Write for Free Booklets.
Agents:— Formont & Co., 51 Queen Street, Melbourre.
Sub-Agents
j Beddome & Co., Bourke Street, Melbourne.
(. Faulding & Co., Sydney, Adelaide, Perth.
Jt eftrtncts' throughout Great Britain and Colonitt.
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c postFREEc
Address: Dr. P. HAROLD HAYES’ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE.
Buffalo, N. Y.. U. 8. A.
2*9-43*
sd
means
DANGER!
Wilson’s
Commonsense
Ear Drums
mean relief and
SAFETY
Send a postcard to day lor
( (ser ptive booklet (oosted
free).givingtestimonialsfrom
Australian users Established
8 years: sales largely increas-
ing. Address. J. Chalmers,
Collins St., Melbourne
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O. EI,DT?,IDG-E & CO,
DYEKS & UEEANEKS,
40 YOUK STREET, fcj jTDNEY
opp. Centenan TIall).
Lonntry Orders by post from all the colonies promotltl
attended to.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies al.
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. 1 don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
k c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per box. Prepared bv
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents *. KLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for Unregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on t
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright}-
There are SOAPS and SOAPS.
But for a NURSERY SOAP
there is no Soap like
WRIGHT’S
COAL TAR
SOAP.
It leaves the skin with a wonderful feeling
of refreshment, and
PROTECTS FROM INFECTION.
THE NURSERY SOAP.
On Suffering Pain Needlessly,
The worry and troubles of life are a burden quite sufficient for anj despondency,
having added to it the misery of over present pain, but, fr 9, ij su flf er . The following
many people endure pain from which there is no real necessity that, y Vpa dilv "cured ;
is a list of disorders, productive in most cases of intense agony, which ca y
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anosmia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
All of these complaints are caused by the presence in the body 9*
to ineffective action of the kidneys and liver. A realisation of the work pertormea oy
organs enables us to understand why, when they fail, we necessarily sutle .
THE KIDNEYS.
By a process akin to filtering, the kidneys remove the excess of
nririp The kidnevs of the average man filter and extract about three pints of urine e\ery u y
Tn this auantitv of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weig 1 J?
aciS aUXrLl™mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to near y “purine S
all these are solid matter, which, when the kidneys are working healthily, is dissolved in matter
feaves the body in complete solution. When. the kidneys fail a proportion of the solid nyrtter
remains in the blood, and becoming actively poisonouss, Producesthe ai l ou ® Gravel, Stone!
oause.
THE LIVER.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is closely related. It is almost impossible for the
kidnevs to be affected and for the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa In the liver various sub-
actually imide from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made from the
blood daily. The liver takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, an s ° r ®?
un so as to be able to supply it again to the blood as the latter requires enrichment. The liver
chances uric acid which is insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals
with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When thei liver is inactive
or diseased the blood becomes laden with biliary and urinary poisons to such an extent that lfc “
in a condition to take up nutriment from the food we eat, red corpuscles are no
is these red corpuscles which nourish the nerves. In other words, the blood is vitiated and served,
and we are bound to suffer in consequence. Indigestion, Biliousness Neuralgia, Anaemia,
Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders are but Nature’s signs that the liver is not doing its duty.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It is nearly thirtv years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner s
Safe Cure. At the outset of the investigation it was realised that it was necessary to ®
agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these two organs ]*»*«“• inti-
mately associated in removing the waste products of the body. Warner s Safe Cure possesses the
desired property in its fullest degree. It acts beneficially alike upon the kidneys and the liver
restoring them to their original activity, and enabling them to rid the body, by natural means,.of_all
urinarv and biliary poisons. This is the reason why there is no necessity for anyone to suffer from
Rheumatism. Gout, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia,
Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles, Anaemia, Debility, Indigestion, or Torpid Liver,
provided Warner’s Safe Cure is taken as directed. Even Bright s Disease yields to treatmen y
Warner’s Safe Cure.
A Simple Test to make is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a
covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a '
ment if particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are unhealthy, and no
time must be lost in taking Warner’s Safe Cure, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less
serious but more painful manifestation of their inactivity will result. L J
The Foolishness of Bookseller Cole.
Since bookseller Cole has come back from Japan
his head has been swe.-ing rapidly, and he ia
steadily taking himself more seriously, until it is
about time that he was carted into a shady,
secluded spot and spread out to cool. Cole’s
hobby, or mania, is a Piebald Australia. Before
he went to Japan he wrote an alleged book on the
White Australia question, which was so childishly
inane that even those papers which Cole adver-
tises in found it next to impossible to print any-
thing good about it. Since his return the foolish old
man scattered a pamphlet on the same subject
all over the continent, for the purpose of in-
fluencing the elections, and he threatens to follow
this up with a new book. The Parliament just
elected, however, is so distinctly White that the
Piebald Australia agitation is dead and putrefy-
ing ; but Cole argues that it will be re-opened
sooner or later, in spite of Australia’s decision, by
the brown and yellow men themselves. In a
communication to the Argus the poor-spirited
Jap-maniac says that the tropical portion of
Australia must inevitably in the future be
the home of a colored race ; and that the
only question really before Australia is whether
it will take this invasion fighting or lying
down. He urges Australia to be horizontal.
It would be humiliating, says Cole, to be com-
pelled, at the edge of the Jap sword, to give “ jus-
tice” to the brown men. If there is anything
humiliating it is the spectacle of an alleged white
man trembling before the bogey of a brown
invasion ; and even the Argus was moved to print
a thrust from a correspondent who wanted to
know what was happening that a British people
was to be frightened by Asiatics into a certain
course of action. Apart from the unwarranted
assumption that the brown man from cold Japan
can live where the sun-tanned Australian can t,
the unspeakable foolishness of Cole’s argument
is beneath contempt. If there were any remote
possibility of the White Australia flag being
lowered, such a statement as that made by Cole
is the one thing that would prop up the faltering
banner. Altogether Cole is so wearisome that it
is time he was appointed Japanese consul, or else
knighted, or made a naturalised negro.
The Australian Tendency to be
Unfinished.
Australia is a country where every man is more
or less of a politician, yet it is, to a remarkable
extent, a land where politics . are not taken
seriously. The Australian is politically unfinished.
He has a curious reluctance to live up to his
creed; he doesn’t go the whole hog, and the
entire swine is a stranger to him. The country is
full of instances. N.S.W., for example, has a
Sunday closing law which is very rigid on paper,
but is hardly enforced at all. The majority of
peoj ’e would be badly shocked if it were
prop... od to repeal the law, and the same
majority, as Pa Brunker discovered, would
be just as much shocked if the law were enforced.
The anti-gambling law is put into effect—just
a little. N.S.W. won’t legalise the tote and won’t
seriously attempt to suppress the illegal tote. It
has a Reform party which lives almost solely on
its denunciations of the present borrowing policy,
but won’t itself promise not to borrow ; it would
be an outrage on the unsettled nature of things if
it gave way to anything so definite. And in this
respect N.S.W. is just Australia in general. Aus-
tralia passed a law to prevent nigger immigration
and the importation of workers under contract,
and almost the whole, country was proud of the
law when it was finished, and said, “This is
Good ! ” The law has been enforced very
mildly, but every time it was enforced there has
been a powerful row, and the Government’s
enemies nave been very much more conspicu-
ous than its friends. The amiable indefiniteness
of the country was badly shaken up; even the
Government’s supporters, in many cases, felt un-
settled through being thus taken at their word.
Kingston grew old and grey with struggling
against the large class which didn’t regard the
law as so very bad, but looked upon the enforce-
ment of it as an outrage on the unfinished tenden-
cies of the land. Australia has a Protectionist
party which protects in a very humble way, and a
Freetrade party which doesn’t Freetrade at
all. Yet if the Protectionist party advocated
100 per cent, duties and the Freetrade party
wanted to abolish all duties the row could hardly
be worse. This tendency to make an elephant of
a row over a mouse of a difference is characteristic
of Australia. The country is crowded with people
who believe in honest finance—there are some
parts of it where you can hardly breathe for
financial reformers—and the vigor of their belief
is something tremendous, but it is a cold year
when the six States can’t muster five deficits
among them. Australia is full of things, like the
N.S.W. Local Government proposal, which seem
to have been killed by general approval—to have
been believed to death —to be impossible of
attainment owing to the enthusiastic support of
everybody. Why these matters are so it is diffi-
cult to say. Perhaps the Australian isn’t more
unfinished than other people, but only looks that
way by some accident.
♦
Perth (W.A.) thought it was reading a
strange title of a new burlesque lately when it
beheld, on the front of the new theatre now
building, a large calico sign inscribed “God bless
my dear son John.” It transpired that city
councillor and theatre proprietor Molloy’s son had
just come home and attained his majority, and
this was the proud father’s way of giving the
glad tidings to the world.
No Australian Need Apply.
In South Africa the situation now seemi to be,
briefly, that no Australian need apply. Many
people are surprised at this, but, after all, it is
only the natural result of circumstances. South
Africa is now mostly run by the De Beers
diamond combination and the Johannesburg
mine-owners. They are a large-vested, large-
nosed people, who did not shout in the forefront of
the battle, as the Australians were ready to do.
But they made notes and said, “ Mein Gott,” and
other things, but mostly “Mein Gott.” They
watched, afar off, the Australians howling up and
down kopjes and burning farms, and they made a
mental memorandum that they were men to be
ejected, with all possible speed, when done with.
What is wanted now is the patient, uncomplain-
ing, cheap, servile, ox-like laborer—the Asiatic for
preference, the Kaffir if the Asiatic can’t be got,
the most crushed kind of European if the Kaffir
is insufficient. What is wanted, in short, is a
laborer without a howl in him, and one who is too
mild to capture an ant-heap, let alone a kopje.
Men who take kopjes are turbulent, assertive, apt
to talk back and upset a mild Jew’s nerves.
Every kopje the Australians took made it more
certain that they were a race who ought to be
starved out of the country—it was far more neces-
sary to sthrve them out than the wooden and
methodical British Tommy, though he is being
starved out also. The Australian is now getting
the natural reward for the kopjes he took. He
was very useful in war, but his very success
showed him to be an off-hand, irregular, disre-
spectful sort of person, whom no stout and quiet-
loving Hebrew magnate could possibly endure
about the place. A swashbuckler may be neces-
sary to protect the rich man in the day of trouble,
but a flunkey is what he wants in days of peace,
and every time the swashbuckler swashes he gets
more on the Hebrew’s nerves, and shows himself
more unfit for the flunkey’s billet. If the
Australian had let the Hebrew take his own
kopje he might have a much better chance of a
job now.
“The Bulletin” Goes to Church.
The Bulletin has just read a sermon by Dr
Watson (lan Maclaren) which puts the position
of the church to-day in a nutshell. Dr. Watson
has laid down his pen, and has taken a
shrewd look around, and has come to the con-
clusion that things are rather unhealthy for the
church, and that a different policy is necessary if
the church is to hold its own. The new prophet,
he says, will preach the gospel of social deliver-
ance :
That the white female slaves who sew from morning
till night, and half through the night, and hardly get the
wherewithal to keep body and soul together, should be
delivered from their bondage, and that every laborer
who is willing and temperate should have his living wage
wherewith to keep himself and his family ; that every
citizen, however humble, should have his own little home
wherein to live in peace and comfort; that the country-
man should not be evicted from the land to make room
for wild animals and rich men’s sport ; that the owners
of insanitary property should be punished--and not
compensated (Dr. Watson must have been reading
recent Sydney history); that every man should have
free access to education, to the country, to health,
and just enjoyment ; and that the burden of weariness
and sickness' and tyranny should be lifted from the
shoulders of them who labor and are heavy laden.
After announcing this breezy and comprehensive
gospel he adds:
The workers have reason to believe that the Church has
not been concerned about how they live, or how they
were paid; that the Ohurcn has not sympathised with
them in their struggle to obtain just wages and decent
homes ; that the Church has sided with the capitalist in
the city and with the landlord in the country. . . . The
confidence of the people is not to be rewon by faith
without works, nor by all the addresses in the world un-
heralded by practical service.
To which The Bulletin, after dropping half-a-
crown in the collection-plate, says “Amen.”
The decision of the Victorian Full Court—in the
case of Williams v. the Railway Commissioners—
that railway employees hold office during pleasure
only (the pleasure, that is, of the Commissioner or
his bosses, the Cabinet), and that they may be re-
moved without a reason being given for dismissal
—that, in effect, the Commissioner may prefer
any charge against any employee whom he wishes
to get rid of, and dismiss him without a hearing—
is so unfair and one-sided as to afford (if that were
wanted) a powerful additional reason why all
State employees should be brought inside the
provisions of the Federal Arbitration Bill. Ice-
berg Irvine showed last May what demands he
could make, and what outrageous powers he would
arrogate to himself if he were permitted ; and any
day, in any State, another and, if possible, worse
Irvine may arise, who may impose conditions on
the State’s servants that no self-respecting body
of men could accede to, merely in order to get an
excuse for wholesale dismissals and the confiscation
of pension rights, or in order to make room for his
own political supporters.
+
A suffrage problem:
The claim, about which so much has latety been heard,
that the old people in the N.S.W. Government asylums
should not have votes, is not one to be thrown into the
waste-paper basket offhand. If it were possible to create
an ideal franchise these old people would not have votes
—nor would a number of the people who write to the
papers clamoring for their disfranchisement. It is not
because they are, unfortunately, compelled to live on
the community that they might be disfranchised ; as
regards a very large section of them, the country
owes them that much, and a great deal more, because
of their past services. Also, in many cases, they
are poor simply because they didn’t swindle some-
one else and make him poor instead. Besides, so
many persons besides inmates of asylums—so many
persons who keep afloat by following utterly useless
occupations and whose assets are an office, a brass plate and
a confidence-trick—live on the community that the
matter, as regards the inmate, isn’t worth
mentioning. But there comes a time in the lives of
most people when they probably shouldn’t have
votes, and when they certainly should be shut out
of the Legislature—a retiring age, so to speak.
It is the time when the individual becomes so old
that he feels it isn’t worth while improving the country
because he won’t be here long enough to benefit by the
improvement—when it doesn’t matter if things break ten
years hence because he doesn’t expect to be here ten
years hence —when the whole future is narrowed down
to the brief period he expects to live, and it isn’t worth
providing for much beyond that, and foresight and
enthusiasm appear ridiculous, and there sets in the in-
curable Toryism of the man who reckons this is a good
enough world to die in. The exact age is difficult to
define, hut almost every man comes to an age at which
he should be disqualified as a legislator. It doesn’t really
matter so very much whether he is disqualified as a voter
or not. That should also be done, but it is a much
•Mailer affair.
“ Agitator” : A new source of expense to
the Vic. Railway Department has arisen since
the advent of the men who helped Irvine crush the
strike. Some of the “blacklegs” openly boast
that, having the Government behind them, they
will make the old employees “sit up” on the
slightest provocation, and they send in reports
and apply for inquiries over the merest trifles.
One bright speoimen of these “loyalists” has
already cost the country from £5O to £lOO for de-
partmental inquiries.
The situation condensed :
Re these unfortunate revelations about how the day-
labor system is sometimes—perhaps very often—run
on N.S.W. Government contracts: The public may
be sometimes prepared to pay for day-labor work
more than it would cost to get the same thing
done by competitive contract, but it will not be
prepared to pay more for it all the time. It is not
going to pay more simply in order to give employment
to men whom contractors would not employ because
they are not up to the mark. If they are feeble, the
public may be prepared to give them assistance out of
the charity vote, or if they are old it may be prepared to
passion them ; but it is not prepared to give its charity
in <)he form of wages. And the working people, who are
the most interested in maintaining the day-labor system,
ought to be even more interested in seeing that this isn’t
done. Price isn’t the only test, but it is one test, and
it is a test to which even Labor men have assented.
Certainly it is a test which, whether they assent or
not, will be applied. They are, therefore, the most
interested in seeing that the results of day labor
answer that test; and the results never can answer
it so long as men are employed who cannot
stand on their own merits as workman. The
only way to secure such workmen is to absolutely
eliminate political control and lay the whole responsi-
bility of employing and dismissing workmen upon the
officer in charge—to give him, in fact, as absolutely free
a hand in that respect as if he were a contractor. The
rotation system strikes at the very root of this. Under it
a workman is put on a job no matter what his
quality : he is kept on for a specified time; and then, if
a new lot which have had no work are enrolled, he is put
off again. This may be all right for relief work,
where the thing aimed at is merely to provide a
certain number of men with relief in the shape
of wages; but, as it destroys all incentive, for
the loafer is as well off as the industrious, it must kill
any undertaking, judging it by the standard
of cost. Of course it relieves the officer in charge of
responsibility. You can’t make him responsible for the
cost if you‘don’t trust him to select his workmen.
Nobody, in fact, is responsible ; and where there isn t
responsibility there isn’t likely to be either serious effort
or success. ' The only way is to pay a responsible man,
and trust him.
The Labor party —the “steerage” party.
—George Reid's definition last year.


London Daily Mail took a vote of its
readers on the fiscal question, and succeeded in
getting 546,779 answers. Of these, 166,606, or
less than one-third, were for Freetrade.
Gregor M‘Gregor’s position in the voting
tor the Senate in S.A. was remarkable. Of the
seven districts which return each a Representa-
tive, he led in six. He polled an absolute majority
of the votes cast, not only in the aggregate, but in
every one of the seven districts. Guthrie was
second in four and Charleston in the other three
districts ; but the Radical districts sat on Charles-
ton (a renegade from the Labor party) so heavily
that he did not get a place among the final three.
The S.M. Herald, in an article on
“Camp Annoyances” (28/11/’03):
There is usually a yell, and the victim is prepared
to swear that he has been stabbed with a red-hot needle
when one of the family of poisonous or fighting ants gets
hold of him. Many a marriage has been hastened
through the efforts of the bull-dog ant.
Now what does the Herald mean ? Will it
kindly explain the bull-dog ant as an aid to
marriage ?
Even at this late hour the Preetrade
Sydney Telegraph whines about being deprived
of the opportunity to loot the taxpayers by getting
its wares carried on the railways at the public
expense. This is an extract from a recent shriek
published by the rich old cadging paper :
The Sydney journals have nothing to be ashamed of in
the history, an open history, of this carriage business.
They have fought the whole issue out before a prepon-
derantly unfriendly select committee of Parliament, and
the whole matter has been laid bare to the public eye.
Only by misrepresentation of the facts can they be placed
in the wrong, and misrepresentation can be corrected.
They have appealed, and if necessary can appeal again, to
the tribunal of public opinion.
In other words, the hardened cadger threatens to
appeal to the tribunal of public opinion in order
to assert the purity and nobility of his cadge.
A REAL PICK-ME-UP.—“ Talk about cham-
pagne,” said Byron, “there is nothingwhich cheers
your spirits up like a dose of salts.” But had he
known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly have
preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
In an illustrated booklet of 50 pages the Union
S.S. Co. describes the Canadian-Australian mail
route to Great Britain under two expressive titles—the
“ All Red ” and “ the Scenic.” The tourist who wants to
get an idea of the size of the British Empire will go by it
because it is the one ; he who wants to see the various
beauties of the South Seas, the remarkable scenery on
the Canadian Pacific railway, including the Rockies and
Niagara, will go by it because it is the other. The Rockies
and Niagara are pretty large attractions in themselves ;
just now the forthcoming St. Louis Exhibition (which
the booklet illustrates) is thrown in. Copies can be had
from the co.
Stated that the Jap Consul in Australia is
in receipt of many offers from Australians to join
the Jap army'and fight against Russia. Pre-
sumably from persons who were broken in to
fighting for the yellow man during the S’African
struggle.
Few men have a better knowledge of the
working of the Lands Acts than has Land Agent
W. N. Willis, of 21 Bligh-street. Payment by
results is not only reasonable but also novel.*
The Federal election at Ni Ni, a village in
the Wimmera (Vic.) electorate, was a comic
episode. The deputy returning officer decided to
take a week’s holiday that was due to him and
hang the election, so those cockies who rolled up
either had to go to some other booth, or else post-
pone matters. Mostly they postponed—across
the road, where there was a hotel. Then it was
decided to take a proper poll that day week.
Meanwhile furious arguments raged as to whether
persons from other districts in the electorate who
hadn’t voted on the regular polling day were
entitled to line up in their hundreds at Ni Ni, and
upset all existing calculations. It was decided
they weren’t. Then, while the blessed election
was proceeding, Max Hirsch lodged a protest on
the ground that the booth was not the one adver-
tised. There were only twelve voters all told,
and when the boxes were opened it was found
that every man had voted for the excitable Max.
The Senate voting panned out eight each for the
Aegus four; Trenwith and Solly two each,
Findley, Goldstein, M’Culloch, and Styles one
each. What became of the other eight votes
goodness knows.
Should Russia and Japan decide upon
war, the nation whose leaders obtain their
intellectual stimulus from D.C.L. Whisky must
score through superior wisdom. The little Japs,
if inspired by that scientifically adjusted beverage,
have sufficient pluck and other murderous re-
sources to land them on top at the termination of
the contest. On the other hand, should the
Russians suddenly substitute D.C.L. for Vodka,
the Japs will be wiped out in one'act. D.C.L.:
The guide that leadeth to success.*
Though N.S.W. has voted for the reduc-
tion of the Assembly to 90 members it is very
probable that the next Parliament will be elected
on the same old basis. The present Parliament,
when it meets in February, will have only 4|
months to live. In that time a Bill has to be
passed reducing the Assembly to 90 members.
The State has to be divided into new electorates
and they have to be approved by Parliament, and
at this stage of the proceedings every one of the
125 members usually complains at great length
that the re-arrangement is made for the especial
purpose of killing his chances. Then the new rolls
have to be compiled. If the Bill is reserved for
the King’s assent (which may happen, though it
doesn’t seem necessary) then it will be Christmas
1904 before anything very definite happens.
Biliousness Again Banished.
Bilk Beans a Reliable Remedy.
Biliousness is the direct outcome of the liver
failing to eject all surplus bile from the system,
which, in consequence, runs riot through the
system, becomes mixed with the blood, and
biliousness, with its attendant evils, is the natural
result. That Bile Beans are an undoubted cure
for this distressing complaint is now a well-proved
fact throughout N.S.W. As a striking illustra-
tion, Mr. T. Jepson, of 85 Old Parramatta Road,
Forest Lodge, Sydney, writes : —“I consider your
Bile Beans to be the remedy, par excellence, for
biliousness and the liver. I suffered considerably
with these complaints and was advised to give
Bile Beans a trial, which I did, to the great
benefit of my health. Since then, I would keep
no other medicine in the house, and never fail to
'recommend Bile Beans to all whom I hear com-
plaining of liver troubles. But I find the good
qualities of the Beans are generally recognised and
appreciated in this district, in which I have been
a resident for the last fourteen years.” Bile
Beans have been proved a reliable cure for bilious-
ness, headache, indigestion, constipation, piles,
debility, female weaknesses, nervousness, bad
blood, anaemia, insomnia, loss of appetite, summer
fag, and in fact all ailments that owe their origin
to defective liver action. Bile Beans are obtain-
able from all medicine vendors, price Is. ljd. or
2s. 9d. large box.*
ELECTORS OF RIVERINA,
4
To the Editor The Bulletin.
Sir, —Will you permit me through your columns to
convey my heartfelt thanks to my supporters for their
magnificent rally on the 16th inst., which has resulted in
my having been returned at the head of the poll. I
would also like to take this opportunity of specially
thanking all those ladies and gentlemen forming my
committees, in the different centres, and in particular the
secretaries of those committees, for the splendid work
carried on by them from the opening of the campaign
until its close. Outside my committees there have been,
I know, many who have worked hard and well in my
interests ; these ladies and gentlemen I would also like to
thank most heartily. My scrutineers at the different
polling booths are especially deserving of my warmest
thanks for the way in which they have carried out their
arduous duties, rendered doubly so by the provisions of
an Electoral Act which has worked so badly and caused
such widespread dissatisfaction.
To the Press throughout the electorate I owe a debt of
gratitude for the vast amount of work done in so fully
reporting the different meetings, and for their uniform
fairness in dealing with everything connected with the
campaign.
To those who have fought against me as open and
honorable opponents let me say that, now the battle is
over, I will gladly meet them all as friends, and while
representing this great electorate of Riverina in the
Federal Parliament, I hope I may prove that I have the
interests of all at heart whether they may have opposed
me or not during the campaign just ended.
I have the honor to be,
Your obedient servant,
R. O. BLACKWOOD.
Deniliquin,
23rd Dec., 1903.
Amusements.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. GEO. STEPHENSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
and
SPECIAL MATINEE PERFORMANCE EVERY
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON
of the Brilliant Musical Farce Comedy,
Mama’s New Husband
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Elvy and Co.’S.
Business Representative—C. R. BAILEY.
Touring Manager—F. W. DUVAL.
Summer Sensations by the Sea.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
• Lessee & Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
SPLENDID SUCCESS of Sir. TREE’S COMPANY,
including
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES and MR. JULIUS KNIGHT,
in the Reigning London and New York Success,
MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE.
RS" Box Plan at Paling’s. Carriages at 10.40.
QRIT ERI O N THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S Powerful and Popular
Dramatic Co. in their Latest and Greatest Success,
WHY WOMAN SINS.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wed. and Sat. Afternoon, at 2.
IMMEDIATE, EMPHATIC, UNDOUBTED SUCCESS of
the GRAND XMAS PANTOMIME,
entitled,
SLEEPING BEAUTY AND THE BEAST,
or Mother Goose and the Seven Champions.
Box Plan at Paling’s. RW PRICES AS USUAL.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS.
HOUSE CROWDED NIGHTLY.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Magnificent Melodramatic Attraction,' .
THE GREAT WORLD OF LONDON.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
QU E E N’S HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
MR. HERBERT FLEMMING presents
MEL. B. SPURR,
ENGLAND'S GREATEST SOCIETY ENTERTAINER.
AN ARTIST WHO STANDS ALONE.
PRICES —3s, 2s, and Is. Doors Open at 7.30.
Matinee Every Wednesday at 2.30.
~the M U T 0 SCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
»d OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels. K®’” Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rick arum
Magnificent Success of PROFESSOR DEWAR and his
Marvellously Trained Troupe of CATS and DOCS.
Enthusiastic Reception of MRS. SIMS REEVES.
Splendid Success of THE CIRNOCS.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN.
THE MICRO-BIOSCOPE.
Mr. ERNEST FITTS, Miss JENNY* GREY,
Miss NITA LEETE. Mr. ERNEST SULLIVAX,
Mr. LES WHARTON.
P E R A H O U S E, MEL BOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
First Appearance of CLARK and HAMILTON, Comedy
Sketch Artists, and JOHNNY JOHNSTON, Musical
Comedian. Re-appearance of J. W. WINTON. First
Appearance of Miss VULCANA, Most Beautifully
Developed Woman, and ATLAS, World Renowned Athlete.
MISS RAY JONES. THE COLLIERS. ALBERTO,
DAISY SYLVESTER, CLARKE and HAMILTON,
ELLA WELLINGTON. ROBERT NEEDHAM,
IRVING SAYLES.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING
Packed and Enthusiastic Audiences Witness
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Greatest and Latest Success,
A COUNTRY GIRL,
by J. T. Tanner.
T HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager C. Simonsens,
EVERY EVENING.I?II EVERY EVENING.“SJI
BLAND HOLT’S DRAMATIC COMPANY in
AN AUSTRALIAN ANECDOTE, Entitled,
A DESPERATE GAME,
For the First Time in Melbourne.
Prices —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
RIN CESS’S THEATRE] MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
IST" EVERY EVENING.
Mr. CEORCE MUSCROVE’S GRAND ENGLISH
SHAKESPEARIAN COMPANY, for the First Time in
Melbourne, in
TWELFTH NIGHT, or WHAT YOU WILL,
Produced on a Scale of Exceptional Beauty.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
jgIJO U THEATR E, M ELBOU R NE,
Sole I,essee and Manager .. .. Mr. TOM PERMAN.
MAGNIFICENT TRIUMPH EVERY EVENING
.... of the ....
Magnificent Spectacular Comedy XMAS PANTOMIME
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
FLYING FAREWELL VISIT
r AND LAST NIGHTS of
W I R T HE BH.OS-’
COMPLETE UP-TO-DATE
CIRCUS AND TRAVELLING ZOO.
ONE WEEK ONLY.
TWO SHOWS DAILY.
LOCATION -JUST OVER PRINCES BRIDGE.
IN COOL GREEN TENTS.
A Gigantic Show Teeming with Novelties.
Australia’s Oldest, Grandest and Most Travelled Circus
and Menagerie, Founded in Sydney, January, 1880.
Nearly a Quarter of a Century of Travel and Experience
in Every Land and Clime.
Been Everywhere, Seen Everything, and Got Every
thing Worth Having.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES «■> TOBOGGANING
*
Steyne Court, MANLY*
A Pronounced Success.
AND DON’T FORGET
THE FIERY DRAGON.
At Poverty Point.
Covent Garden Theatre, London, was burnt in 1856, as
a finale to a hal masque, given by Anderson, on the eve
of his departure for Australia. The performances had
extended over two days and nights.
“Melb.”: Of course.it is not possible to worm any
criticism into local papers on the safety of theatres. Our
Princess and Her Majesty’s are good safe houses, as such
places go, and this is not affected by Her Maj.’s having
been h'jzlt on the interior pattern of the disastrous
Vienna Ring Theatre. It has been claimed that the
Ro.yal can be emptied under ten minutes. I only object
to the vestibule with its bars. I object to any theatre
being wholly upstairs, like the Bijou. The Opera House
pleases me just a little better than the Princess’s. Here
is the order in which I place them : Her Majesty’s, Opera,
Princess, Royal, Bijou.
Our old acquaintance, Walter Bentley, has broken out
in a new place. When last heard of he was appearing at
a London music hall in a Shaksperian variety sketch —
i.e., condensed extracts from Richard the Third. Music
hall audiences want their bits of Divine Shake served in
a hot and peppery style, and Bentley gave ’em the
humpiest-backed Richard imaginable. Also, he was
threatening to produce sketch versions of “Macbeth”
and “ Othello.”
“ H.” : Accidents I have witnessed at shows : Was in a
dress circle, with safe retreat, and saw a fire panic at
leisure. Another, time, was badly off in a crowded
gallery, with an infant sleeping peacefully. beside me,
when the scenery caught fire. Actors put it out. Was
at a pantomime when the flies caught fire, with fairy
children tied up among them. Next night, at the
opposition pantomime, the giant’s wig got ablaze, from
a procession jet. At a variety show flakes of real fire
came tumbling down from above. Was in a big circus
when it broke down. Nobody hurt. Saw a comedian
fatally injure himself in climbing over a stage fence,
with spikes. Saw an actor stab an actress in the course
of a play, so that she was laid up for three months.
When I essayed to act myself, the gasrnan plunged the
whole show into pitchy darkness during my best scene.
Chicago’s holocaust possibly tops the record for
theatres, but does not come within cannon-shot of the
champion church disaster —that of Santiago, where, on
Dec. 8, 1863, there were over 2000 people burnt, mostly
women. The Ring Theatre, Vienna, was burnt in 1882,
with a loss of 447 lives out of 2000. The Paris Opera
Comique fire was May 25, 1887, during a performance of
the opera “ Mignon.” Loss of life, 131. (it is a ghastly
coincidence that the Chicago Iroquois Theatre was
modelled on the rebuilt Opera Comique of Paris.) Car-
valho, the manager, was sentenced to three months’
imprisonment, and a fine equivalent to £2OOO. Andre,
the chief fireman, was sentenced to a month. The
manager was also imprisoned over the Ring Theatre
affair. We have never heard of such punishment in
English-speaking communities, and yet it has often been
richly deserved.
Harwood used to tell, in his
prosperous days, how he was
once working outside a bush
sawpit when he saw a company
of strolling players passing, on
Cobb’s coach, and envied them.
After the boom burst, he thought
he ought to have stuck to the
sawpit.
A novelty in the insurance
business is that Madame Patti
has insured her voice for a tour
in America for £lO,OOO.
Cecil Raleigh has invented the
word melo-farce for his new play,
“ The Flood-Tide.” A curious
phrase is used by lan Robertsi n
to describe his piay “The Golden
Rose, or The Scarlet Woman,”
recently produced by London
Stage Society. He calls it “a
bas-relief in one act.”
“Marat”: A swarm of bees
on the wallaby settled in the
stalls’ entrance of a Sydney
theatre once, and the sub-man-
ager, who was in low spirits,
came out to inspect. Just then
two m lkmen pulled up in front
to look at the unusual sight,
and the sub. rushed inside,
wrote an eight inch advertise-
ment for the papers, and gave
orders for six new signs for the
front of the house. “ Talk
about an ‘ office,’” he said to the
treasurer; “flowing with milk
and honey.” And there was a
very poor house after all.
Austin Brereton, in his new
book on the London Lyceum,
says that in 1838 a lineal de-
scendant of Shakspeare brought
out an original play there, for
one night. This piece introduced
Shakspeare, Queen Elizabeth,
and Leicester.
Sydney Town Hall’s is definitely not now “ the biggest
organ in the world.” One has just been installed in the
Seville Cathedral (Spain) which has four metal flute stops,
each 16ft. long. It has bass bourdons which give 32
vibrations a second, and thus make a deeper bellow than
any previously produced.
Oscar Asche and his wife are said to be going to run
their own show in partnership with Otho Stuart, who
visited Australia years ago as the white-haired boy of
Mrs. Bernard Beere’s co.
A certain physically robust tenor of foreign manu-
facture regards himself as a heaven-born entre-
preneur, and, when anybody else falls in, shrugs
his shoulders and exclaims, “Ah, but dey would
not take the advice I give.” Also, he approaches
new vocal aspirants and asks, “ When are you going to
make a concairt for yourself? I will man-age for you for
twenty-five guineas. It is sheap.” But the short-
frocked aspirant has usually been deluded into bestowing
all her guineas upon some alleged singing teacher, and
her intense desire to give a concert on her own is satis-
fied but rarely.
“Melb.”: The “Country Girl’’recalls the comedy of
the same name which Garrick adapted from Wycherley’s
Country Wife. Mrs. Jordan’s great character was
Peggy, in the “ Country Girl.” Pattie Browne acted it in
Australia. It was a famous breeches part, so called. In
it Mrs. Jordan fascinated the Duke of Clarence,
afterwards William IV. ; they had ten children, all
copiously provided for by the tax-payer. One of them,
the Countess of Errol, was ancestress of the Duke of Fife,
the King’s son-in-law. Thus the whirligig of time brings
its revenges.
Mons. Ponsel, the dapper little Frenchman who trains
the meat-eating quadrupeds at Wirths’ Circus, g "it
married the other day to a Melbourne girl. It isi . t
every day that a lion-tamer gets married. The Wirths
wanted to seize the opportunity for a nuptial ceremony
in the caged arena, with the lion posing as “best man,”
and the goat gawking around in gala costume, and the
hyena smiling at the happy pair. Mons. offered no per-
sonal objection, but the bride couldn’t like the idea a
little bit. So the Wedding in the Cage didn’t come off.
‘ Little Mary ” : The Broken Hill show was a syndicate’s
sin and a State’s scandal. It should have been called a
horse - parade. The programme mainly consisted of
horses and vehicles. Just by way of variety there was a
bullock-weight guessing competition. Year after year
the good old Government supplies the usual subsidy for
this and similar wretched fakes. Small wonder that
there’s so little money in the Treasury. The only good
the Silver City show does is to promote good-fellowship
of a (hie) kind ; and to cause the local mokes to be
groomed once a year, and the conveyances to have their
annual bath.
The short story of that appalling burning fatality at
the Iroquois Theatre, Chicago. The asbestos curtain,
which should have prevented the fire spreading from the
stage to the body of the house, refused to come down
when wanted—for want of constant use, things like that
generally refuse to come down when wanted. Also, if it
had come down, it would have done no good, as it
turned out it was not composed of asbestos. There
were 40 exits, but the audience only knew of three or
four. Result, as far as known, 878 deaths.
George Musgrove borrowed the biggest bill-posting
brush in Melbourne with which to lay on the jam in a
letter addressed to the Argus. George wanted to contra-
dict a rumor that he was abandoning theatre business in
Australia, but in half a stick of matter he managed to
work in references to “ our intelligent and critical
audiences ” and to “ attractions worthy of the intellect of
Melbourne.”
Cabled that August Siede, a nice-looking young Mel-
bournian, has pleased the musical enthusiasts of Dresden
with his lyric symphony entitled “The Australian
Walpurgis Night.” August Siede (son of Julius of that
ilk) deserves credit for composing what Marshall Hall
calls “ the first musical work of downright merit done by
an Australian ” ; nevertheless the alleged approbation of
Dresden will not carry much weight with the public which
heard this same lyric symphony performed in Melbourne
by Marshall Hall’s orchestra 18 months ago. On that
occasion the composer called it a symphonic overture,
and never a word was said about its “ Walpurgis ”
significance. Not knowing what they were expected to
comprehend the audience couldn’t get a thrill or half a
thrill from the sombre composition. It kept the instru-
mentalists pretty busy, and was doubtless “ musicianly ”
and all that sort of thing—but O ! it was a severe trial
even to people who had come with the intention of dis-
covering genius in it. Perhaps the orchestra, under the
personal direction of anxious young Siede, failed to do
justice to the iob.
Mary Conly, the buxom soprano from Melbourne, has
been getting some promising engagements in England.
Mary Oonly has a fine, strong voice and she sings artisti-
cally, but in the matters of style, smile and corsetry she
was still very backward when she left Australia a couple
of years ago.
Arthur Elwood died in London the other week. Only
a few Australian play-goers have troubled to remember
that Elwood loomed'for a short time as leading man of
the Brough and Boucicault 00. He took the part of a
dreamy, romantic hero in “ The Masqueraders” and com-
peted with Titheradge for possession of the heroine—a
lovely barmaid, impersonated by Geraldine Olliffe. Tith.
was the vicious baronet who bid top price for the barmaid
and secured her hand in marriage, but subsequently the
two men played a game of picquet in which the Dreamer
staked his fortune and the baronet staked his “ missus,’’
and lost her. At the moment the lady was quite anxious to
pass over to the other and nicer man, but subsequently'
she suffered from awful British scruples re the sanctity
of marriage, and remained with the boozy baronet, and
thus spoilt the play for Australian tastes. It failed, and
Elwood also was a non-success on account of his persistent
monotone and depressing romanticism. A polished,
gentlemanly actor, utterly deficient in force, he dropped
out of theco., but his wife—Miss M. Talbot —stayed on
awhile and did some good work in the society dame line
of character. The many old admirers of Miss Talbot on
this side will be sorry to hear of her bereavement.
Wilson Barrett lately celebrated the 21st anniversary
of “ The Silver King” by reappearing in the name part.
The stodgy old gentleman honestly believes that it was
his original performance of Wilfrid Denver which made
the success of the play. His friends have told him so.
“Petramos": To our mothers we owe much. Heard
a little girl ask her mother, when she heard the agonies
of a graphophone in the distance, if that wasn’t the band.
The Ma replied : “ No, dear, that’s not a band—that’s one
of those what-you-may-call-its.”
RUENALF, THE MAORI BOXER
(who lately fought negro Felix).
Photo, by Barron & Co., Melbourne.
Rumor says that several members of the late Grand
Comic Opera Co. are Slapping writs for alleged grievances
on to manager Musgrove.


Medical Experts
jjlJl W fill!
s^a
Hw -
'' '; ;>i|i
-
■ ; -
llii
iWr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
Director of Institute.
SPECIALISTS WHO CURE.
4
If afflicted with a disease which, if
not cured, means death, you
require the aid of a medical expert
who can cure you swiftly. Consult the Specialists of
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute
whose names are household words of thirty years’ standing
throughout Australia. They treat diseases others have
aggravated by tampering. A day’s delay may mean
Death. Do not wait. To-morrow you may be too ill to
write or act. You can be cured if curable.
Serious Diseases Afflicting the Male Sex
are Specialities of the Medical Staff of the Institute, of
whom Dr. R. Wallace, M.D., who is registered by
Australian, English, and American Boards, is Physician-
in-Chief. By their wonderful Home Treatment system,
men can be cured in their homes as if personally examined.
Blood Diseases are treated with singular success. If you
cannot call, write. It will cost nothing. The Specialists’
professional opinions are given FREE.
MEN!
I
■I
*ss
i: m
i
vi® yM
■ v
■
I ’
: :
ill
■r
w
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.
Physician-in-Chief.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
Each Specialist associated with this great Institute is a Graduate from famous English and American
Colleges and scientific European centres. They are all Experts in Nerve, Stomach and Blood
Diseases, and have cured more men of their troubles than any similar association of Australian
medical men. They are under a guarantee bond of £lOOO for the faithful performance
of all medical contracts undertaken which is a proof of faith to every patient.
Blood Diseases (
One of the most serious of diseases is that I
of the blood arising from specific causes.
The blood is the life, and if polluted the
whole machinery of the body is assailed.
Victims to blood diseases are in a serious con-
dition. If not attended to at once they
will surely die. No one but skilled scientific
experts should attempt to treat them.
Insidious and subtle, undermining the
health, affecting every vital organ, they kill
quickly.
They are Desperate Diseases
requiring desperate remedies. Their origin
is not obscure to the skilled medical man
who has specially studied them. This is the
class of disease with which the medical staff
of the Institute are familiar. Ninety per
cent, of such diseases are permanently cured
by them. Any sufferer may be convinced of
proof of cure by writing to the Specialists
for Pamphlet of Testimonies of remarkable
cases cured by them, mailed free. Sufferers
may find there cases similar to their own. j
m
pm
s^4g>T] <
1
mi
mM
m
*• !
r. • :
THE MEDICAL INSTITUTE, SYDNEY.
Strengthless Hen
f Men who are deficient in Vital Power from
1 many causes, at thirty are prematurely old,
' lacking the power, the energy to be a success
I in life and to enjoy it domestically and
[ socially. Such men are only half-men, the
| oontempt and pity of their fellows. A man
i should be strong, full of purpose, successful
f in strength, no man’s inferior.
| The Specialists Make Such Men.
| A man-will continue to degenerate if
lacking the essential power of the man. It
I is the law of Nature, the survival of the
(fittest. Thousands of Weak Men have been
cured at the Institute, have been made
' strong and healthy, and are living advertise-
| ments to the Specialists’ skill, who may be
consulted Free of Charge, by letter or per-
| sonally, by any man who has doubts about
i his condition. Such advice is invaluable
' coming from men whose professional skill as
l medical experts is unequalled in Australia.
It is the Most Scientific
Throughout Australasia.
Over £lOO,OOO has been
expended on this Institute.
\By reference to any of the leading: banks or commercial houses in Sydney, patients can convince
themselves as to the professional bona-fides of the above Medical Institute. It is scientific in every
I detail. Its cost has been enormous. It is known far and wide by reason of the great cures effected by
| its Specialists. Its Medical Staff comprise many of the greatest medical minds in the Commonwealth.
A patient suffering from Varicocele, Rupture, Loss of Vital Power, Weak or Shrunken Organs, General
I Debility, Heart Disease, Cancer, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Insomnia, Kidney Disorder, Dropsy, or Diabetei,
.Spinal Affections, Diseases of the Stomach, Nerves or Blood, are all treated by Specialists who have
studied .the class of disease thoroughly. Patients may depend upon it the treatment they require is the
I treatment they will receive, and will be such as no other medical institution in Australia can afford them. ,
The Specialists of this Great
Medical Institute have
practised in Australia over a
Quarter of a Century.
Free—A Book Worth £lOO.
f
It tells every Weak Man how to get strong. It explains the
reason for the Early Decay of Manhood’s Strength and how Perfect
Vigor is restored. It tells how we have cured thousands of weak
men in Australasia during the past five years. It is a beautifully
illustrated, 570-page book, and is full of those
Candid, Plain=Spoken Truths
which have always been the medium of communication between our
patrons and ourselves during the past twenty years. It tells about
the cause and cure of “weakness” in men as men like to read it—plain
and honest, straight from the shoulder. There are other troubles
from which men suffer, such as Rheumatism, Lame Back, Varicocele,
Weak Kidneys, Sciatica, etc. It tells about these also and how
we cure them. To any man who suffers from an early breaking
down of the vital powers it is worth £lOO. “ CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES,” 570 pages,
150 Graphic Medical Plates,
31 chapters, is the Book for Sick Men. It is commended by hundreds
of Australian newspapers. It Costs You Nothing, except the
postage fee of One Shilling in Stamps.
Subjects Treated comprise Insomnia, Epilepsy, Fevers,
Sunstroke, .Burns and Scalds, Gunshot Wounds, Snakebite,
Drowning and Restoration, Bathing and Exercise, Treatment of
Invalids, Anatomy, Consumption, Rupture, Electricity and Cure
of Nerve Diseases, Diet, etc. 4. list of 50 valuable prescriptions
are also included, making the book especially valuable to country
residents, where medical men are few. . Applicants should send in
at once for copies, as the edition of this work is fast being ordered.
m
m
t
@3
HI
ces
I
ICALI
88
ON
i
Gene
Dise
Nb
BY
EEMAN*
o Medical*
CQNSULTINC
II
2 I
EDITION.
Free for One Shilling
in Stamps.
Great Journals Praise this Book.
“ STAR,” Sydney : “A book for the people.”
“ EVENING NEWS," Sydney: “ A revised and enlarged edition.”
“TOWN AND COUNTRY JOURNAL,” Sydney : “The Specialists
find it necessary to supplement new literary staffs.”
“PUNCH,” Melbourne: “Anyone interested in incurable diseases
should write to the Specialists.”
“SUN,” Kalgoorlie: ‘“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’ contains much
valuable information written in a popular manner "
“ OBSERVER,” Adelaide : “There has never been published of its
kind in Australia a more worthy addition to the literature of the colony.”
“ MERCURY,” Hobart: “It is an elegantly-bound volume. Over
20,000 . . . copies are issued yearly.”
“WORKER,” Brisbane: “Almost every disease which flesh is heir
to has been treated within the pages of this work.”
“NEW ZEALAND MAIL” : “ In this book the authors give
us much that is instructive from a physical health view-point.”
“SUNDAY TIMES,” Perth, in “Bits about Books,” on
March 29, 1903, says: ‘“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’ on
General Diseases is splendidly compiled. It would be
hard to overrate its value, nor do we ever remember
to have seen a more creditable production or one that
merits a more appreciative press notice.”
“ OBSERVER,” Auckland: “A highly inter-
esting volume. It deals with nerve com-
plaints and how to cure them.”
“ MINER,” Kalgoorlie : “The postal
facilities of the Institute are unique.”
“SUN,” Kalgoorlie : “Striking
cures of many so-called ‘INCUR-
ABLE ’ diseases are effected daily.”
These are but a few from
hundreds of others, all of
which are voluntary re*
views of extreme
literary value and
merit.
When under treatment all patients are under the spesia! care of D 3. R. WALLACE, M.D., L R.C.P., E., L.M., a distingu e led
Medical Expert who is registered by the Midical Boards of Australia, England and America. He holds Nine Diplomas and Cc/tificates
of Qualification and Registration, which may be seen at the consulting room 3. His profeseiona! advice 3 are given free to all inquirers.
V
V
A
V
&
<*
s-’
e^V
<$
<yj>
<9
o°«^


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
VERY POPULAR WITH THE LADIES.
A well-known chemist writes: “I have sold
as high as six boxes of CHAMBERLAIN’S
STOMACH and LIVER TABLETS to one of
my lady customers during the past year, and two
or three boxes to many of them. I have, I
believe, sold fifty of these tablets on the recom-
mendation of one lady here, who first bought a
box of them about a year ago. She never tires of
telling her neighbors and friends of the good
qualities of CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and
LIVER TABLETS. “Just What You B[eed.”
Sold everywhere. Is. 6d.*
Otir Variety makes Suitable Selection Easy,
BUYING as we do for Eight Stores, each as Well-Stocked as our Sydney one, means that we
have advantages offered us such as no Jewellery business in Australia can claim. We have
our own warehouse in Hatton Garden, London, manned by Experts who see more goods
in 24 hours than most buyers see in In months. You see thus that we can offer you the
very pick of the Home market at fascinatingly low prices. We don’t keep all the advant-
ages we get to ourselves—we pass them on to you. A most important point, and one we adhere
to is, we never sacrifice the quality for the sake of being able to quote a very low price for an
article. Quality is our first consideration. Remember this when you want anything in our line,
as quality must count with you as well as with us. Illustrated Catalogues Free on application.
No. F 7989. —9cfc. Gold Leaf and Wishbone
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. Gs37.—Solid Silver Bean Shape
Match Box, Br.6d.
No. F8199.—9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar, Leaf
and Heart Brooch, 8s fid.
No. Gl4.—The Nurses’ Watch, Keyles9,
Open Face, Engraved Silver Case, fine
Jewelled Lever Movement, Warranted
Reliable, 32s 6d.
We have looked long: for a good
Nurses’ Watch, and at last we
believe we have secured the
very one wanted.
No, 112.—Handsome 9ct. Gold and Fine
Amethyst Brooch, 18s 6d.
No. BB34l.— Solid Silver and Pearl Book-marker, 3iin., 4s ; larger, 6s 6d.
No. F 7550. —9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar and
Leaf Brooch, 8s 6d.
No. FSlB6;—The Latest
Lace Pin, Emu or
Kangaroo, 7s 6d.
No. F773l.—Novel Style Salt
Cellar, with Spoon, Silver-plate,
is 6d.
No. FB2ls—Cut-Glass and Solid
Silver Toilet Bottle, 5i inclits
high, 22s 6d.
m
1 o. 1 7065. —9cfc. Gold, two-bar Ornamented
Brooch, 11s 6d.
1
No. C29S. — Polished English Oak and Nickel-mounted Doubla
Inkstand, ill ss.
No. E 4933.— Fruit Dish of Pretty
China, 7 inches square, strong
Silver-plated Stand, 7s 6d.
No. F296t>—Silver-plated Fern
Pot, handsomely chased :
4in., 22s 6d ; siin., 37s 6d.
No. F 5908. —Solid Silver Bowl on Ebony Stand, 5£ inches
high, 7J inches wide, £lO 10s ; in Itest Plate, 84s.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free* |
Ho. FssBB.—Case containing 2 Pearl and Silver-
plated Butter Forks, 14s 6d.
No. EB7s9.—Best Quality Silver-plated Tile Centre
Teapot Stand, 10s 6d.
No. E6797.—9ct. Gold Brooch, set Sapphire, Ruby
and Diamond, 16s 6d.
No. F493B.—Case of 2 Cut-Glass
Silver Mounted Knife Bests, 11/6.
No. FB7o4.—Remarkable
Value. Diamond, Ruby and
Sapphire Scarf Pin or Pin
and Stud, Fine Gold Settings,
£3 10s.
No. Es627.—Strong 9cfc. Gold Twist Bracelet.
A Pretty Style, 82a 6d
Q$i^a/iEdaafavit(jp
m
A fuel merchant, lately appointed J.P.,
called his “hands” before him the other day,
, , , . ~ , j
and, seated on a bench in the coal-yard, fined
them from ss. upwards for alleged breaches of
duty. He told them that it saved costs of court.
TTpnrv Turlev who tons the noil fnr
y P
Queensland Senators, was, for many years, deep
sea and longshore man up and down the waters.
His practical experience of maritime matters and
sailor-men’s woes will be a tower of strength to
the White Australians when shipping*matters are
before the Senate. He represented South Brisbane
for a number of years in Q. State Parliament.
George Reid professes that if he had life
to begin again he would be, like his father, a
parson. That is the streak-of-pathos attitude of
ShToK i,“: t tolr. d »d diSl ’ ° f h ° lj Wl “' r
..’ . ,
Auctioneering is apparently a remunera-
tive biz. in Adelaide. F. J. Bottmg and F. W.
Bullock are among the wealthiest men in the
Holy City. Bullock’s name is identified with
pretty nearly everything, and Bottings used to
be. The latter was a builder before he went in
for the hammer and brewery business. He got
to S.A. as early as 1839, and was 20 years old
then but) he still erets to his business with regu-
, » 0 a o u UUBIUOOB VUKU ic S u
lanty.
“N”. Malklim M‘Eaeharn has twice
JN. . JOBIKUm m mcnarn nas twice
been put into a muckle sweat. The last time was
over his neck-and-neck run up the Straight With
Maloney. The other occasion was the Mayoral
contest, in Oct., ’99, when I happened to be pre-
sent. Mac was electrical. If you had touched
his cheek a Breen SDark would have come out
nis cneeK, a green sparit wouiu nave come out.
He beat Gillott by one vote. Yet, when October,
1900, came round, M'Eaeharn would sooner have
lost in 1899. It had been expected that the Aus-
tralian Parliament would open in 1900. Gillott
gobbled ud all the green turtle fat and the glory,
guooieu up du lUB gieou tuiiuo a u o g o y,
after all. As Mayor, he received the Jook and
Jookess. Those eminences were not thought of
in 1899.
~
“ D. O C.” from Surrey (Eng.)
Tup Pin ietin’s recent remarks COct 61 regarding "An
Australian Explorer” (the sort of “explorer” who goes
out from Europe hangs round tracks well-known to Aus-
tralian bushmen and then gets himself advertised as “a
great Australian’explorer” by your ignorant, un-Austra-
lian papers), remind me that I once travelled out with
nnonf fhiQ kidnpv A hifrypr brai?£?apt and a greater liar
? never stmck He told hls audiences of mostly British
r S^S , .{a.S!3'
he had been right across the continent, and had had
many adventures with the blacks. Also he had invented
an electrical appliance which would positively indicate
the presence of opal and other precious stones. All he
had to do was to carry this machine down an abandoned
tvhich W the n gem W lay if masonable distan.e Per-
sonally, he did not value money, he said, but he was
going to make a pile for the British syndicate that was
behind him. Also he had received offers from an Amen-
can syndicate to locate minerals, but patriotically Mfused
t 0 i°e n°nd fhe tended to gfveTtw thhKm-
fiXg machine wls 9
Probably David Syme’s knowledge of the
Soul was gleaned from the number of them that he
has bought.
“ G.Y.” i Knew a Hawkes Bay (Maori-
land) J.P. (M.H.R. as well) who was summoned
for allowing cattle to wander. When case was
called defendant was occupying bench, and gave
judgment as follows : “I feel very sorry to see a
man of defendant’s circumstances in this position.
He has been known to me personally for many
years, and has always borne a good character.
As the offence is not likely to occur again, he will
be convicted and discharged.”
“War E.” : Mention of Andrew Lynch
(8., 17/12/’O3) recalls the fact that even to-day
there may be seen in many houses in the Careoar
district examples of Andy’s thoughtful gener-
osity in the shape of well-bound copies of
Hansard and Votes and Proceedings ! The
stranger is invariably shown these monuments of
wisdom, with the remark: “This illigant book
was presented to us by our second-cousin, Mr.
Andrew Lynch, M.P. God rest his soul!” The
sacred book is then carefully placed on the parlor
table in company with the “ Holy Bible ” and the
“Family Doctor.”
“ 0.K.” : Touching Gov. Loch’s ignorance
of the duties of his position, Thb Bulletin
repeats the story of his having proposed to take
over the Defence Deportment from the Victorian
Government. This astounding fact remained a
secret between Loch and the local politicians of
that period, who grovelled wormishly to Sir Henry
and “ dear ” Lady L. The public, however, got
an inkling of His Excellency’s sense of self-
importance when he allowed a working-man to
be given into custody, and sentenced to 14 days,
(without the option), for passing a disrespectful
remark upon the vice-regal “ orderly.” The irre-
verent toiler, struck by the pompous demeanor of
the person who rode in front of the Loch equipage,
said to his mate in a loud tone of voice—“ Bill,
who's that on the ’orse ? ” Whereupon the
proud flunkey hailed a passing policeman and
gave the caitiff citizen in charge with His Ex.’s
warm approval. Magistrate Panton decided that
the bald space in the above remark amounted to
disloyalty under the circumstances. Governors
have been steadily losing weight since those days.
A domestic snapshot from Maoriland :
Passed Premier Sedtlon’s unpretentious residence in
jjolesworth-street, Wellington (M.L.), the other evening,
anc j saw eldest daughter of the house leaning over
the corrugated iron fence in cheerful conversation with
man’s°gate? 0b The r wo^lV‘was \ h opng
with a grubby-faced infant, into whose good graces the
eldest daughter was endeavoring to ingratiate herself at
long range. “Come over to me, Joey?” But Joey’s
allegiance to the weary woman was firm. There are few
handsome daughter. 0 animitalon rom e re
~ Q , ~ . , .
WarE. ; Stray relations of great Aus-
tralians are becoming almost as great a pest as
alleged Bulletin writers or rabbits. Struck on©
the other da y on the look-out for a light job. He
confidentially assured me he was first cousin to
Edmund Barton. I was duly impressed. Further
assure d me that it was only pride which prevented
him applyi to that J&A personage for the
PO sifcion ,?|s onsul to Panama, or some other high
“Of course ”he continued, Dick would
do more for me than my cousin! Whos
«. day a pS"
dn Ki n g' street > and he says, Harry, he says,
‘ I’m higher related than you. No George, I
says, ‘you am t. Drinks on it, he says.
‘Righto,’ says I; ‘l’m first cousin to Edmund
&*?■’ ' ' s»,s George, and he pays 1“
The stray relation so far overcame his pride as to
accept fid. from me.
Condensed from “The Foremost Jews of
Tn-rlnv ” in Mtinsfy •
‘ T ', , , .
O. S. Straus, of New York, has been U.S. Minister in
Turkey, honored there with the confidence both of
Cleveland and M'Kinley. J. H. Schiff, of New York, is
fche most liberal Jewish millionaire in charities. D.
Leventritt is a judge of the N.Y. Supreme Court. Nathan
Meyer Rothschild heads the British Jews. Sir M. Samuel
is Lord Ma y° r of London—the fifth Jew to hold that
office. R. Isaacs, K. 0., is regarded as the smartest com-
mercal lawyer m London Lord Burn ham-otherwise
Levy-Lawson is the London Daily Telegraph man-
H. Jessel, M.P., is Mayor of Westminster. About 300
British Jews figure in the official returns of the Army, as
line or militia officers. Next to Britain, Italy gives the
best chances to Jevvs There is General Ottolenghi,
> llnls p" °f War. France has ex-Cabinet Mims-
ter Millaud, Supreme Court Judge Alphandery,
and Loewy, the Director of the Paris Observatory,
There are about 300 avowed Jewish officers in the French
army, including some colonels and a brigadier-general,
No Jew has penetrated the French diplomatic service. In
Germany Jews are rigidly excluded from the commis-
sioned ranks of both army and navy. Prominent in civil
Jif e js Ballin, director-general of the Hamburg-Ameri-
C an Steamship Co., and very influential with the Kaiser,
Leading financiers are Furstenberg, Goldberger, and
Bleichroder. There are said to be 2000 Jewish officers in
the Austrian army. The most distinguished is General
V> n Els - A. Sonnenthal is the leading actor on the
German-speaking- stage. He has been ennobled in
Austria. Max Nordau was born in Budapest, the son of
of Blowitz in Pans is Lavino, another Jew Another is
Braham, The Times correspondent lately expelled from
® ussla - The leading Russian Jew is Baron Gunsberg, the
hnancier -
The King of Italy is constructed on Dooko-
york lines, A Paris critic writes of his Majesty :
“ In ordinary clothes he weuld be a presentable
little King enough, but in uniform ! His little
sky-blue legs and that enormous helmet made him
look exactly like a big-head in a pantomime.”
But the other partner in the firm shelters his Nibs
from a good deal of ridicule. The Queen is “ tall
and graceful.”
“G-.” : Once watched a certain whiskered
politician make four intoxicated attempts to board
a tram. At the first time of asking, the hairy one
was indignantly cast off the footboard by a
matron who had been in to the grocer’s to order the
boiled ham, and over whose face the tangled
legislator had shed his whiskers like a bad simoom.
Rescuing his bell-topper from the gutter, he
awaited the next tram on his hands and knees;
and, as it swung past him, he leapt frantically
toward the parallel laps of half-a-dozen shop-girls.
He slipped from their sloping knees, however, like
a disrupted star falling regretfully out of the
zodiac, and was left, pondering the excessive
slipperiness of all things. When the next tram-
gong clanged, he rushed it, striking a bank
director by whom he was brushed away like a bit
•of fluff from the countenance of the Almighty.
Then a policeman took charge of him and put him
and his whiskers tenderly into the fourth tram-car
that came along, and ended the show-
“ Alba” speaks disrespectfully of a poet
and a statesman :
Senator J. 0. Neild would make an admirable character-
study for a novelist. He is the great fighting cheese-
monger. His oppressive fluency drowns one like a
cataract of lemonade or hairwash. ’ There is something in
the deep cellars of his being prompting him to become a
literary statesman and a poetic Kitchener. Yet as a
poet he fs far behind Purtell, the Melbourne kerbstone
balladist. There is more blood and stamina in a tin of
milk than in anything he has written or said. One day,
in a crowd, I looked through a microscope at Neild’s
moustache. It was like gazing at a rope works that had
become bogged in a soap-and-glue factory. Clots of
gelatinous matter hung in shreds about his mouth ; his
upper lip was a Niagara of hair. Ac Mafeking time, when
the cheesemonger spirit threw aside its apron and fell
upon the beer, Neild used to lead the departing con-
tingents to the Quay. He rode in front of the
brass band with a boiled ferocity in his eye that
only Homeric slaughter could quench. At the
troopships Neild usually made a speech to the men,
shook his nickel-plated scabbard, and then went
home. There used to be a huge bullock at Glebe Island
abattoirs known as Red Judas. It was R.J.’s business to
make friends with the mob in the yard, and lead them in
strings to a place where a blithesome fellow with a poleaxe
leaned from a gallows. Judas trotted up with a fresh
lot about every hour and passed under the gallows, but
was spared. One day the poleaxe man fell ill. He
was replaced next morning by a cross-eyed butcher
who didn’t know Red Judas, and slew him oif-hand. The
oversight disarranged biz at the abattoirs for a while,
but there were dozens of bullocks eager to take the
place of Judas. Some day, if this country is invaded,
a cross-eyed commander may insist on Neild going a
little more to the front, and then either he or the enemy
will be killed. Australia would certainly never replace
Neild’s moustache.
A letter from Henry Lawson .
Dear Bulletin.—l’m awfully surprised to find myself
sober. And, being sober, I take up mv pen to write a
few lines, hoping they will find you as well as I am at
present. I want to know a few things. In the first
place : Why does a man get drunk ? There seems to be
no excuse for it. I get drunk because I’m in trouble,
and I get drunk because I’ve got out of it. I get drunk
because I am sick, or have corns, or the toothache ; and
I get drunk because I’m feeling well and grand. I got
drunk because I was rejected ; and I got awfully drunk
the night I was accepted. And, mind you, I don’t like
to get drunk at all, because I don’t enjoy it much,
and suffer hell afterwards. I’m always far better and
happier when I’m sober, and tea tastes better than
beer. But I get drunk. I get drunk when I feel
that I want a drink, and I get drunk when I
don’t. I get drunk because I had a row last night and
made a fool of myself and it worries me, and when things
are fixed up I get drunk to celebrate it. And, mind you,
I’ve got no craving for drink. I get drunk because I’m
frightened about things, and because I don’t care a damn.
Because I’m hard up and because I’m flush. And, some-
how, I seem to have better luck when I’m drunk. I don’t
think the mystery of drunkenness will ever be explained—
until all things are explained, and that will be never. A
friend says that we don’t drink to feel happier, but to
feel less miserable. But I don’t feel miserable when I’m
straight. Perhaps I’m not perfectly sober just now,
after all. I’ll go and get a drink, and write again later.


N S * Wr^es f rom the hindquarters of
i* m an uncomfortable position,
struct-pd ,,“' ler districts, the Works Department has'in-
can bv an e road-super. to knock off all repairs which
the nrirenfv4 Ctl of . offlc ‘ al imagination be kept out of
member vT 1,s ? - tn view of the approaching election, the
not mil,, V,? S P? en explaining to the cocky electors, who
them better roads, but also the job of mending
works *me unfortunate super has reported against
As a reo„w W ii. h e (the member) had secured the vote,
has (-ii.n j ,. super, had so many irate callers that he
the hm,/ ed , a( idress. His excuse for moving was that
active !!i w ? s . J eak y- The super., who is fairly large and
tba »vi?i i. member to explain matters a little, and
miner lr ana t 10 n is still proceeding at intervals, but the
mptnboi S j P earl .Y satisfied yet. He says that if the
the »vw>v c i oe8n t stop laying the blame on him he will lick
to oaten' 1 ] ul member is also howling for economy,
“ \\ l ” e * own newspapers, which complicates things.
., War-E.” : One of the latest additions to
“ hr, We ,; bee ’ s " Pees ” is flabbergasted by the
to k • con ferred on him, and is quite at a loss
be e *p ai] i how it came about. “S’helpme,”
do dun «o how I came ter be picked. I
11 >, i ow much about Parlyment men, so it
r ? * he them ; but I hev a suspicion on the
rjent here, becos one night larst month a drunk
oye came inter me shop an’ started barneyin’,
•n him quick an’ lively, an’ I sez ter him,
uo home, me good feller. If yer don’t yer’ll get
xn er he ,°g S an > fi ne d,’ an’ he went away
r right. When I turned round there was the
ooirun old sargent, an’ he sez : ‘ Yer seems ter
ave a purty good knack of handlin’ drunks! ’
rf™ he must have recommindid me for the
met, becos there’s always a good lot of drunks in
ns ere town to handle. Comeanaveadrink ! ”
“ L.W.” : The Imperial House of Austria
has. been making copy for the evening papers
again, and various journalistic snobs will arise
and deplore the way the Hapsburgs are dragging
the monarchical honor in the dirt. All the same,
from a human standpoint, most, or at least many,
of the Austrian scandals may be counted as
righteousness to that ancient line. ■ When a scion
of the house of Austria falls in love with a woman
lie’s always gentleman enough to marry her law-
fully, it he can. Thrones have been cast aside for
the love of actresses by the heirs of Austria —and
very few other royal families have been capable of
such self-sacrifice. No Guelph is built that way.
So I take off my hat to the House of Austria !
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
“ Spinifex ” : Consider the “bloke” and
the challenge thereof. Offend him, and straight-
way he dares you to engage in mortal combat —by
deputy. The average challenge runs thus: * ‘ Think
yer a bit of a crack, doyer? Well, let me tell
yer. Igot a cobber wot’ll knock th’stuffin’outer
yez in two ’its; an’ don’t you fergit it, neither.”
This method of deputing a friend to knock stars
out of the offending party should denote some-
thing. Can’t decide yet whether it means a low
standard of courage, or an extremely high standard
of intelligence. Anyway, it’s a fool’s game for
“me cobber.”
A GOLD or SILVER WATCH FREE!
ma/m
*
S>.\
'•WaW
\
>',v'.‘. ,,, .\««»
VS
SEND NO MONEY.
WE hereby undertake to give one of our Famous
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
D**T M**S T**S C****E
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if
you have won the Watch. We are making this offer
solely with the object of introducing and advertising
cur goods. Forward your letter to our address :
GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL COMPANY, Pitt St., Sydney.
Or BOX 865,
G.P.O.
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
Serenade of Mephistofele (Faust) “Gounod” M. PLAN CON
Vio Lo Sapete—“Cavelleria Rusticana” ... MADAME CALVE
To Anthea C. SANTLEY
Air des Bijoux (Faust) SUZANNE ADAMS
SPECIAL GRAND CONCERT
To give enjoyment to all lovers of music.
PROGRAM ME.
Dai Campa dai prata Mephistofele ... COM. CARUSO
Why. Davydoff ... ... *.. MADAME "VTALTZEVA
Andante “Favourita” ... ... ... M. RENAUD
Lullaby from “Harold” ... ... MADAM FIGNER
If a combination of artists such as the above could be got together, there is no hall in Australia that would accommodate the crowd they would draw,
and seats would sell at as fancy a price as ever gladdened the heart of theatrical impressario.
It is now possible to have the above singers and hundreds of other artists performing in your own home ; naturally, you ask how 1 The answer is ready
at once— By means Of the Gramophone. Write to us and we will forward you, post free, list of records and machines, with the name of
our nearest agent, where you may hear the machine, and judge as to its excellency yourself. The best Christmas present a man can get his family is a
GRAMOPHONE. Agents everywhere, prices to suit everyone.
No. 3
New Type,
£4.
mm
gs=a!B
Other Styles,
£1 Is. to £32 10s.
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Oollins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland
HEINHOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania—
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia.
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
EMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRA
LIQUI
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long: as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from it.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEDTOD CHRMIIE * CO., REEBOUROE.
BLACK, BED, and BLTJK (in 8-gallon Cases): —
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
SYDNZY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
4/-
4/-
4/-
4/-
P or Gallon.
91
99
19
99
99
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“Bsngtfp 9 !* Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record,
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and tho Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible•
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere-
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t) find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food 1 everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


TATTERS ALUS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall» on and a*er Ist
January, 1903, elients will please forward Id. extra for eaea am
tioket applied for, or 4d. for every JBl, and so on.
HOW OPEH
LAUNCESTON CUP, Launeeston, Tas., Jan. 20, 1904, 50,000 at 5/L
HOBART CUP, Elwick, Hobart, Tas., Jan. 27, 1904, 50,000 at 5/1.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., Feb. 27, 1904, 100,000 at 10/2,
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 1, 1904, 100,000 at 5/L
Subscribers will please note the* GEORGE ADAMS ("TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direot to clients.
Money ean also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
TUwlr to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
THE
SMELTING * REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
TTighest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
Eor all information regarding Hates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers Sweep, etc.
Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Hearne’s Bronchitis
THEE FA.MOXJS RE MEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty o:f Breathing, oar j® l J® S^cj^'i^ )l °-
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as 1 e < I , CmisimiDtion has
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor onsump 10 _ F ‘ „ pnera ii v sufficient,
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. _
BEWARE OF 1 COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this let ter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much'interested in it. He came yesterday, and earned
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —i wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidlv successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS*
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses. —P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
"Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four dosea, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending’ for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M DONALD, Tnnkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
1 Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—-A. B- SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.
" My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wqnderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSLiT, Strath Greek, via Broadtord,
Victoria.'
" I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with, great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.-f Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN Skipton, Victoria. ’
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegitng, Morundah, N.t>. W.
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—O. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.
"Kindly forward another-bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“ I tm very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased tne right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” # . . ,
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Hey wood, Victoria. ’
“ l have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody. S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” • .... ...
" I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicme,
but I can truly say that lam astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief tual. JuHiS G.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
"Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—-A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
luok made me much worse. I am satisfied thtat the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from ion have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illnessv —HENßY WURLOD, Alina, near Maryborough, Victoria.
«The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and^Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
» The Scientific Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
"Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there ia anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearna’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, OolHns-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others. ,
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value oi
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
"PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
" 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
"Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 33
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken welll or.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a chiia
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
• THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“ W G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack ol
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result tnao
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely leto
me. We are now never without the medicine in tne
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Gkelonq Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the j
Bronchitis Cure.“-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydaey, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot, office . No g j- irst fi 0OT) (j reer ? s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size. 2s 6d: Laree. 4s 6d. Sold bv Chemists an d Medicine Vendors Forwarded by Post to anv Address when not obtainable Locally.


Miss Ada Crossley’s
TRIBUTE TO
THE PIANOLA.
21/10/’O3.
Menzies’ Hotel,
Melbourne.
The Manager of tho Pianola Co.
Dear Sir, —I want to tell you how delighted I am
with the Pianola. It is altogether wonderful! In an
accompaniment to several of my songs it has given
me splendid support, and the tone has been most
■ympathetic and sustaining.
With appreciation and greeting,
Very truly yours,
ADA CROSSLEY.
There is but one PIANOLA.
Sold only by • . .
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185-7 COLLINS ST., MELROURNE.
We will mail you a Catalogue of the Pianola
free if you will write us. Ask for Catalogue B.
A. ®> F
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceed ngs
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Limited.
Distraint.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
he little birds that build their nests
the branches green,
° cru el landlord them molests
With beak and talons keen.
They are not harried round for rent,
Ue SP°' IS their mirth,
heir roof it is the firmament,
Their garden is the earth.
In Gum tree town they dwell secure,
No bailiff comes to seize
Their little sticks of furniture
Ainid the waving trees.
When on their little quests they roam,
With rage they do not burn
To find some frowsy bird at home
When they at eve return.
I would I were a little bird,
The little birds among,
That I might sing, although unheard,
Of men a careless song.
If I unto the winds oould fling
These cares that make me pine—
No bird that flies in air would sing
A song as gay as mine.
I have a house with rooms so fine
Whose walls are painted green ;
An elegant and rich design
Is on the dado seen.
And in the front, in beauty rare,
The golden sunflowers glow,
And in the garden, free and fair,
The tall weeds gaily grow.
I would I were a joyous weed—
No lily white or rose— •
That I might bloom or run to seed
Exactly as I chose.
Alas, I am not bird or weed ;
The wolf is in my den—
I am a singer run to seed,
Yet called a citizen.
My furniture is sold. My care
By other men was bohght;
And so I sing Vogue la galore :
1 own the realm of Thought.
A gypsy I was born to be,
And still I Sigh for them—
The nomads in the desert free,
The shining tents of Shem.
N.S.W.
GREEVE ROE.
The Bagman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Noon on a midsummer Sunday in Queensland.
The man in a one-horse trap was the sole moving
object on a five-mile stretch of red road leading
into a border township. The whole turn-out was
red. The man, the trap, horse, harness; the
water bag slung to the guard rail; the luggage-
all were red with dust. A cloud of red dust
enveloped the whole, and steadily accompanied
its progress.
The scene gradually changed. The red road
was still there, but fenced in. Small paddocks
with actual grass were to be seen. The man did
not notice these things at first, but presently the
iron roof of,a homestead embedded in orange and
peach trees, with a fringe of timber in the back-
ground, attracted his attention.
“Peaches! Great Scott! I’d give half my
samples for a dozen ! ”
He pulled up at a neat white gate with “River-
view ” painted on it. A short distance off, the
branches of the peach trees waving seductively in
the breeze gave him invitation.
“Rather a bit of cheek,” he soliloquised, “to
call at a private house on Sunday. But I don’t
know. They’ll give me a drink, anyway, and
perhaps some peaches.”
He got down, opened the gate, and led the
horse through. “ I won’t mention biz,” he said to
himself, as he shut the gate. He drove towards
the house, his thought taking a brighter hue.
“Bush people are hospitable—about dinner-time—
comfortable-looking place—good dinner—drink—
bath—order—and go on refreshed.”
He reached a gate in the fence from which a path
led up to the house, and tied his‘ horse to the
horse-rail. He took two steps towards the house.
Then the bagman instinct became tod strong for
him, and he returned and extricated one small
sample-case from the vehicle.
He reached the house. From a back room lie
heard the welcome sound of cutlery on crockery.
His knock was answered by a stout, good-
tempered-looking man,- dressed in cool white
garments. He bore in his hand a long tumbler of
beer. The mist on the outside of the glass denoted
that it was also cool. At the sight the bagman
was roused to violent energy.
“My name is Brady,” he said ; “I represent
Sawkins and Smith, tea merchants, of London,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, and Brisbane.
Allow me to offer you my card'. I have called to
see if X can do any business with. you. These .”
“Friend,” broke in the other, over whose
face passed a look more of sorrow than of anger,
“dost thou not know that this is the Sabbath
day ? Is it not written in the Book, 1 Six days
shalt thou labor and do all that thou hast to do,
but the seventh is the Sabbath of the Lord thy
God ; in it thou shalt do no manner of work, thou
and thy maidservant, thy manservant, and thy
daughter, nor thy cattle, nor the oxen that
treadeth out the stranger within thy gates;”’ here
he looked at the hot, dusty individual before him
and drank half the beer; “for in six days the
Lord made heaven and hell, the sea, and all the
birds therein, and camped on the seventh day,
wherefore the Lord blessed the seventh day and
hallowed it.’” Here he finished the beer.
“I beg your pardon,” said Brady, with con-
centrated bitterness; “I did not know I was
trying to sell tea to a dashed conventicle,” and
he snatched up his case and turned towards the
gate.
“Friend,” said the stout man as Brady retired
down the path, “I hope what I have said will do
thee good. I have an office in town, there will I
see thee and do business with thee.” But Brady
did not wait to hear him out, and the dusty
caravan was again rapidly travelling towards the
township.
* * * *
Jim Brady, once smart, but now a wreck,
reached town in a dazed state. He engaged a
room, saw to his horse, and made a bee-line tor
the bar for his long-deferred cool drink. While
discussing this, and waiting for the bath to be
filled, he asked the landlord : >t
“Are people very religious hereabouts?
“ Well, I don’t know,” was the reply. “We ve
tried twice to keep a resident clergyman here, for
the sake of the children, and the children used to
attend service pretty regularly, _ while their
parents went fishing and shooting, but the
stipend never could be collected, and the parson
wouldn't stay without it. A priest and two
E arsons visit us now and again, but I can t
onestly say I think we’re very religious.”
• * * *
Twelve o’clock next morning saw Jim Brady,
spick and span, like the smart Jim of city fame,
returning to his pub. He looked dispirited, and
he was ; business, though he was ready to do it
wholesale or retail, had not been too good. As he
neared the hotel he noticed ‘‘Black, Jones and
Co., Auctioneers, Salesmen, etc.” painted on a
board across the footpath.
“May as well try,” he said.
He entered the office. Then he glared with
indignation, for seated at the table was his friend
of the previous day. He was clothed in garments
of respectability, and his face wore a severe rather
than the well-remembered sorrowful expression,
as he glanced at the incomer over a pair of gold-
rimmed pince-nez.
“ What can I do for you ? ” he inquired.
Jim made some introductory remarks, and
presented his card.
“ Tea, eh ? Very well, let me see your samples.”
Jim arranged them, and began to descant on the
virtues of the different blends. The customer
listened, asked various shrewd questions, and at
length took a pinch of a sample, tasted it, and
said : “ What can you do that at? ”
“ Ah ! ” said Jim, “that is a particularly choice
blend. I sell more of that than of any. Luckily
the firm has a large stock, and shipments to
arrive. I can do it you at 2s. for small lots, or
Is. lOd. for a large order. ”
The stout gentleman’s expression changed from
severe to ferocious. He jumped to his feet.
“ Two shillings ! D—n and your soul, you
infernal impudent monkey ! D’ye see those
chests, d—n you ? And those, and those, d—n
you ? Look at the brand ; same as yours, isn’t
it ? I’m selling that here at Is. lOd. Do you take
me for a blithering idiot, or are you a gory ass ? ”
and the stout man’s curses died away in a sub-
dued growl.
Then the bagman turned on him with a smooth
voice, but with fire in his eye.
“ I beg your pardon,” he said, “but are you the
stout, white-clothed snuffle-buster with the beer
in his hand that I intruded on yesterday, or his
twin brother ? Your countenance suggests that
inhospitable person, but your language doesn’t.”
The stout man yelled with laughter.
“Of course I’m the same man. 'l’m taken that
way occasionally on Sundays when I’m short of
amusement. ’
“ Quite so—and you’re taken this way sometimes
on Mondays. Now those chests are empty, and
your tea is the same sort of thing as your piety.
Just come to the hotel and do a drink, and if you
give me a big order I’ll do it at Is. and then
I’ll do a swearing match against you for £l, or
I’ll do a snuffling match for £5, or I 11 fight you
in the front street for Gd. But I’m going to sell
you some tea, to make up for that beer you didn’t
give me yesterday.”
And the stout man admitted it was a fair offer.
NE'ER-DO-WEEL.
What Befell the Artist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Very lonely was the City of Dull Noises.
In the moving desert of its streets, human sands,
caught by the siroccos of Chance, whirled around
and onward—ever around and for ever onward.
The ways were barren of flowers and the tall
houses hid the skies. No song of birds reminded
men of freedom and the fields, but the canary
trilled nervously in the gilded cage, a theme of
memories, like unto the yearnings of a blind
troubadour behind prison bars.
The Artist sat in his workroom, four storeys
high.
The tools of his trade were about him. His
palettes were grimed with the coarse exhalations
of impure 'atmospheres ; his stumps of crayon
greasy from the perspiration of fingers; even the
prepared Indian ink had dried up disgustedly in
its little French bottles.
The sickly light of a city sunbeam goaded the
Artist’s tired eyes until they closed.
He had taken passage to the Land of Just-
Beyond, where the love-work never tires a strong
man’s hand ; where the eagles gather on their
rocks above the clouds to gloat upon the sun.
Dream-fancies stood out in bas-relief on the
white marble of his brain.
He splashed clean colors on to virgin canvas.
He blended and he builded. He borrowed their
sheen from dainty sea-shells on Pacific beaches ;
he pilfered ( ,his scarlet from the flame-tree, his car-
mine from the waratah. He robbed the dawn of
its glory, and tied it to the sunset with a loop of
camel’s hair. He stole the glitter from the waters
and the moonlight shadows from the forest. He
paved his pictures with the sunlight and bridged
them with the Milky Way.
At large he wandered in wide domains where
all was glorious and new. Milkmaids, red-cheeked
and full-hipped, sang divinely beneath tall palms.
Brown-bearded cavaliers rode over sunny land-
scapes to the crack of stockwhips.
He listened to the rustle of the wind-swept
maize ; the ring of the wood-cutter’s axe upon
the mountain cedar.
He creaking of the saw in the saw-
pit, the crunch of the cane in the mill, the groan-
ing of riven logs under the splitter’s wedges and
maul.
He heard the bang of the shotgun, a splashing
of water, a whirring of wings.
He heard, he saw, he awoke ; and seizing
wearily his palette and brushes, he proceeded to
the painting of a pot-boiler, which brought him
exactly two pounds and two shillings of money at
the Annual Artistic Australian Exposure of Very
Little Pictures.
E. J. BRADY.
“ Platelayer ” : Why not a 1 or 2 per cent,
tax on gross receipts of turf and other sporting
clubs as something towards a Commonwealth
sinking fund? The tired Australian would thus,
in spite of himself, be doing something to support
■us leanins'-noot.. for there arc few Australians too
weary io attend a race-meeting.
“ Yic. ”: Why do all our artists depict Austra-
lia as a placid-expressioned young female, draped
in a smirk and about seven yards of double-width
calico ? My idea of a true portrayal of Australia
calls for a Man, not a woman; with an anvil-
chin, far-seeing, steady eyes, rope-muscled limbs,
and draped merely in a pair of pants, shirt,
bluchers, and slouch hat—the shirt sleeves, by
the way, rolled up.
“The employing secretary of Frederick
Eckstein (Wernher, Beit and Co.), a director of
several Rand mines, has introduced Italian miners
to the field.” Kaffirs, Hindu coolies, Chinese
coolies, cheap Italians—anybody, in fact, but the
Britisher, who will demand a voice in the govern-
ment of the country. Yet it was in the name of
political freedom that this same Britisher spilt a
sea of blood and about £250,000,000 of money.


RHEUMATISM
Is a form of Blood Poisoning. You will never have Rheu-
matism if your Kidneys are well. For Healthy Kidneys
filter from the Blood all the Rheumatic and other
Poisons that cause Disease. Keep the Kidneys well,
and they will keep you well.
Rheumatism is not a
disease in itself; it is but
the symptom of a disease.
It is caused by an acid in
the blood, called uric acid,
of which there is enough
formed every twenty-four
hours to cause certain death
if not removed.
Nature has provided the
kidneys to take this acid
out of the system, and they
are the only means by which
it can be removed. As the
blood passes through the
kidneys it is filtered, and
the acids and poisons are
passed out of the system
along with the surplus
water.
But when the kidneys
get sick they do not do
this work properly, and
some of this acid stops in
the system, causing endless
pain and suffering. It will
crystallise somewhere, and
when it crystallises in the
muscles, the little, sharp,
jagged crystals cut and tear
the flesh, causing great pain.
JA
X
Yd
• ••
%
V
That is muscular rheumatism.
They may crystallise in the joints, and that is the cause of gout j or in
the kidneys or bladder, causing stone in bladder or kidney, gravel, sedi-
ment, &c.
The acid will penetrate every nerve and fibre of the body, causing
nervousness, headache, sleeplessness, and interfering with the valves of the
heart; it will affect the eyes, and will cause a general weakness and fagged
feeling, bloating of limbs, &c.
The whole health of your body therefore depends on keeping your kidneys
well. There can be no rheumatism with healthy kidneys, no nervousness, no
headaches, no bad blood. Keep the kidneys well, so they may filter al'
impurities from the system, and they will keep you well.
(loan's Backache Kidney pills
are the great medicine for this purpose, because they give just the aid tho
kidneys require to properly filter the blood. They heal the kidneys’ delicate
membranes, and, best of all, they are for the kidneys alone.
They do not act on the bowels, as so many medicines do.
| SYDNEY PROOF.
Mr. James Fotheringham, Watson’s Bay, late 6th Imperial Bushmen,
writes: “ Whilst in South Africa with the 6th Imperial Bushmen, through
constant exposure to all sorts of weather, sleeping in wet clothes, etc., I got
a very severe attack of lumbago. I was so bad that I could not get up off the
ground—let alone mount my horse. Two military doctors had ago at me.
One blistered my back until all the skin was off; and the other gave me
medicine —but neither of them did me any good. Fortunately a comrade
eame along with a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and before I had
finished the box I was as right as ever I was in my life. Since then I always
keep a box of the pills handy, in case of the lumbago returning ; but, so far, I
am glad to say, I have had no necessity to take them. You may make what-
ever use you like of this, as I consider Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills a boon
to humanity.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted, on receipt of price,
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
Itching Piles Cured.
Mr. J. J. Gannon, 108 Denison-street, New-
town, this city, says:—“l have been bad
with itching piles for a good many years. It
was only itching piles at first, but after a time
an itchiness of the skin seemed to come from
it, and I had an itchiness to bear in more parts
than one. Between the two my torture was
terrible at times. I tried everything to get
rid of it, was treated by doctors and chemists,
and tried everything obtainable that was
recommended for itching skin troubles. Some
time ago I resolved to try the remedy which
had cured Mr. Gilliver. I knew Mr. Gilliver,
and knew that he was not the man to make a
false statement, and if he recommended a
thing it must be good ; so I got the remedy
which cured him—Doan’s Ointment. This
remedy did me good soon after I started using
it, and by the time I had used two pots I was
quite cured. It is now three months since I
ceased using the ointment, and I’ve not had
any sign of the piles or skin trouble since. It
is my opinion that Doan’s Ointment will cure
anybody of itching piles.”
Mrs. Gannon confirms the above by saying •
“ It is two years ago since my husband made
the above statement, and I am pleased to say
that he has remained free of the piles and
itchiness of the skin ever since. It is simply
wonderful the way the ointment acted. We
have had letters from different parts of the
State asking if it is correct, and we have
replied to each letter advising the use of Doan’s
Ointment.” }
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan s
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will cure
them absolutely; but do not take the manu-
facturer’s word for this. Ask Mr. Gannon.
He knows, for it cured him ; and he lives here
in Sydney. What proof could be better or
stronger ?
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists and
storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will be
posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
But be sure it is DOAN’S. —Advt.
'Possum.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A correspondent suggests: “In case the Common-
wealth should be needing a motto, what about ‘’Possum’?
‘ I am able,’ also the name of a critter pretty
familiar to us all.)”
“ Referring to general trade, I would point out that it
is the prosperity of other nations which makes them able
to buy Australian wool, and when they leave off buying
our produce w,e Australians will have to live on ourselves
like the cannibals of old.”—G. H. Reid at Singleton.
Thus does Puncheon Reid conclude,
Dealing in prophetic mood
With the taboo Borealian
’Gainst commodities Australian ;
And does wail that we good pals
Soon must needs turn cannibals.
Yet does young Australia muster
Grit to grin at all the bluster.
Thumbs in belt and tongue in cheek,
Only one word will he speak—
Good word, “ ’Possum ! ”
’Possum ! ’Possum ! I am able !
Count me not with things unstable.
Cobden creed may rot or shrivel,
Cobden screeds degrade to drivel.
Foreign nations take their chance,
Retrogression or advance.
We on nationhood upstanding,
Ever deepening and expanding,
Answer all the rant and railing
With the one word, all availing,
That word “’Possum!”
Puncheon Reid declares that John,
Hans and Jacques and Jonathan,
All in kindliest mood conspire
To create what we require.
We contrariwise declare
Their success breeds our despair.
Free us from that exploitation,
And right soon a stalwart nation
All our life shall bud and blossom ;
Each man standing on his “ ’Possum !”
Always “’Possum!”
Wheat to grind and wool to spin,
Mineral wealth untold to win,
Ample virgin gold to buy
All our land will not supply,
Dowered with all things mankind prizes,
What care we who ostracises ?
Who goes down or who stands up ?
Lady Nature crowned our cup.
And we’ll drink to her who made us,
And reply, whoe’er upbraid us—
“ ’Possum ! ’Possum !”
But another terror looms,
Opes another.book of dooms.
Lo ! Bull-Cohen, square and stern,
Will prepare to do his turn.
Stout Bull-Cohen vents a roar,
Swears that never, never more
His good gold our way shall come.
His big loans make our life hum.
Thus he swears with tongue and pen.
Young Australia, say what then?
“ Say ? Why, ’Possum.”
“ ’Possum ! ’Possum ! ” always ’Possum !
Take your loans to Abram’s bosom !
Loans and landlords, duns and debts,
Eat up all our cash assets.
Raw material, foreign friends,
Use us for their private ends.
Landlords keep us under whip,
Good Bull-Cohen makes us skip.
If the whole lot went to blazes
Could we tighten up our traces ?
Thunder ! “ ’Possum 1’
Never time so fair as now,
Now to make and clinch the vow;
No men work for foreign bosses,
(Fat men bulging on our losses).
But, from shearing, we’ll to spinning,
Keep at home the gold we’re winning.
And we’ll hold our land in fee
For our own posterity.
Can we rule it thus, good brother,
Thyself, myself, not another ?
“ Each man : ’Possum! ”
N.S.W.
F.M.
“The Kid.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Come back ’ere, Tommy, an’ take ther baby.”
Tommy clattered his barrow over the rough
bricks to the yard gate, but the shrill voice rose
again. “ D’y’ear, yer young varmint, yer take ther
baby.”
Tommy slowly pushed the barrow back to the
verandah, where an untidy woman stood with
a screaming baby under her soapy arm. He
flung his cap savagely at a familiar fowl, and
dumped the child down on a bundle of mangling
he was taking home. The screams instantly
ceased, and the thin, dirty little face brightened
as the barrow bumped down the yard and through
the lane. Tommy pushed it along, and surveyed
the occupant with angry eyes.
Ever since that baby had entered the world he
had monopolised Tommy, who could never sneak
out without him. If a fight was on he always
arrived when it was all over because he had the
baby. Many a tempting shot at a Chinaman had
to pass unaccomplished because he could not run
away fast enough with the baby.
And the baby, though a cross peevish little
mortal, never shed a tear when with Tommy.
That was what made him wild. If his mother
picked him up, he screamed and struggled until
she cried, “Ere, Tommy, fer Gawd’s sake take
this blessed kid.” With Tommy it was instantly
pacified, and he had no excuse to give the slap he
ached to deliver.
Never a tear, no matter how uncomfortable he
might feel. Sometimes pushed under one arm
while Tommy played marbles, or jogging madly
up and down while Tommy tore along after afire-
engine. To-day he had tried to slip out alone,
for he had a piece of lollie he did not intend
sharing. Slyly he turned away his head while
sucking it, but the quick eyes discovered him and
a grimy little hand was stretched out.
“ Yer greedy little wretch, yer shan’t have it.”
But the hand was stretched out further, never
yet knowing denial.
Tommy snapped a piece off with his teeth and
pushed it into the ready mouth.
“Take it, yer little pig. It’s enough ter have
yer tied to a feller’s neck widout wantin’ every-
thin’ ’e’s got. Take yer sticky paws off them there
clothes or ”
A group of boys quarrelling over their marbles
instantly took his attention.
Dropping the barrow shafts and threatening
the baby with instant death if he moved. Tommy
went over to take part in the noisy discussion.
Suddenly there was a scatter, as some made a
grab at the marbles and cleared. Tommy flew to
his barrow and rattled off, but he was seen and
judged with the rest. As he was the only one of
his party in sight he was set upon by the losers
and roughly handled- His own marbles were
seized as spoils, and he was left with a bruised
body and the baby.
He shook his fist at the child, spluttering with
tears and anger.
“By cripes, I’m jest full o’ yer. A feller might
as well have a lump o’ iron slung round him.
Yer young devil, I’ll flatten yer yet.”
The offender simply clapped his hands and
laughed, believing it was all done to amuse him.
Yet there were times when Tommy found the
baby paid. Certain housekeepers where he car-
ried the mangling praised him for thinking so
much of his little brother. A slice of bread-and-
jam usually followed.
As the days went on the child grew more irrit-
able, and, to do Tommy justice, he often took
him out to rescue him from a beating.
One day he received a rude shock. An unwary
display of pop-corn elicited no demand. He
offered some with a sudden burst of generosity.
But the little head turned away from it.
After a long pause, Tommy asked, “ What’s up
wiv yer ? ”
A neighbor passing heard the remark, and
asked, “ What’s up with ther kid, Tommy ? ”
“ ’E won’t eat nothin’, an’ ’e won’t sit up.”
“ Take him ’ome ; the sun’s making him sick.”
Tommy took him home, and, finding the house
deserted, sat him among some clothes on the
verandah. To his great surprise, the baby made
no demur as Tommy slipped over the fence to
freedom.
He made up for lost time during the next few
days. His mother, heavy with drink, never
troubled, as the baby seldom cried after him now.
He could walk deliberately out and slain the
gate in the baby’s face, and the baby would only
sit listlessly watching. One morning after doing
this he peeped through the fence. He certainly
was not sorry to be free, but somehow things
didn’t seem natural. He took an apple from his
pocket and went back to the baby The little
hand, usually so eager, never moved.
He went through the inventory of his pockets.
A few marbles —not those, he might swallow them.
A piece of string and a penknife —both dangerous.
Some nails, buttons, a new peg top. He held it
up temptingly. The little arms stretched out
and passed it; crept about his neck, and the
drooping head fell limply upon his shoulder.
Down the lane rattled the barrow, past a group
of boys.
“ I say, Tommy,” cried one, pointing up the
lane to an advancing Chinaman, ‘ ‘ we’re goin’ ter
lick Wun Lung. Come on an’ ’elp; yer ain’t got
the kid ter stop yer now.”
Tommy did not see the Chinaman just then, for
he stared through a blinding mist at a dirty little
bonnet in the empty barrow.
SIMON.
Great is the rivalry between Milparinka
and Tibooburra, in the dismal north-west of
N.S.W. The population of the latter is about
treble the former, and Tibooburra has three times
as many pubs.—Tibooburra three, Milparinka
one. In the sunburnt centre of parched Australia
the number of pubs, is the crucial test of a town-
ship’s greatness. Milparinka could afford to crow
in the days of Tibooburra’s infancy. At that
time there was gold at Milparinka and Mt.
Brown, and it then boasted three pubs. Now, it
is merely a collection of ruined humpies, where
the coach stops bound for south-west Queens*
land. The best building in the place is
the court-house, which the M.P. had to
agitate for, not because it was wanted, but as a
matter of form. It was chiefly used for ping-pong
when too hot or wet for the P.M. to glay golf.
But Milparinka’s dignity got the nastiest kick of
all recently—the official kick of the Government.
Its great argument in favor of its paramountcy
was the fact that the P.M. lived in Milparinka,
and visited Tibooburra. Now the situation is
reversed. It still has one mainstay. The Stock
Board meets two or three times a year. If ever
those meetings should cease, the melodious name
of Milparinka must be rubbed off our map. For-
bear, ye Stock Board!
“ T’othersider ” : Kalgoorlie (W.A.) has a
greater pressure of dog, live and tinned, to the
square inch than any other town in Australia.
Not only are the pavements littered with sleeping
mongrels and nondescript curs, but even the
private bars and hotel smoking-rooms are infested
with them. Also, some people there, of the im-
ported-dude kind, cultivate the brutes by the
gross as pets. I remember, with pleasure, how
two of these Johnnies were suddenly hurled,
along with their pups, two-thirds of the way
across Hannan-street. Each Johnny owned about
five terriers, and they had the habit of strolling
about the town with a pup under one arm,
trousers turned up with the Piccadilly reef, a
glass over the right eye, and the four-legged
pestilences trooping behind. In that order they
ambled, one day, into the saloon-bar of the Aus-
tralia Hotel, and, putting down their armfuls
of pup, the two called loudly for two—haw—long
beahs. While Fluffy was icing the drinks, the
ten terriers climbed up on the lounge and lay
there, a palpitating mass of confused dog. As
the dudes aimed their “beaks” at the frescoed
ceiling, a well-known Boulder mine-boss strode in
and smote the heap of bull-terrier a tremendous
kick that scattered it all over the bar. Both
Johnnies dropped their drinks and yelled, “You
man ! how dah you kick my terriahs—how dah
you ’ ” waving their crook-sticks excitedly as they
spoke. Then the boss of the Great Gold-grab
Company exploded, and, with a furious combined
fist-and-foot movement, whirled both dudes along
the corridor and forth into the street, casting
great festoons of yelping pup after them. Then
he wiped the perspiration off himself, and had a
number of drinks. He deserved them.


A Weak Stomach
Indigestion, No Appetite, Exhaustion, General Weakness,—All Duo
to a Sluggish Liver and Impure Blood.
I
Mr. G. A. Boxall, of Prahran, Vic-
toria, sends us his photograph and says:
“I wish to tell every one the great
help I received from Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. I suffered terribly from weak-
ness of the stomach, indigestion, and
biliousness, and I had no appetite. I
felt tired all the time. Sometimes it
seemed almost impossible for me to
keep about. But after using Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a short time for my
blood and as a general tonic to my
nervous system, and with an occasional
use of the Pills to keep my bowels in
good condition, I rapidly improved, and
am now enjoying better health than I
have in a long time. I now keep these
medicines near at hand and take just a
little whenever I begin to feel badly,
for, you know, ‘ a stitch in time saves
nine.’”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Of course you cannot enjoy good, health, if your stomach gives out. You
must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep your liver
active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to be active, and a feeling
of general good health may bo yours by keeping your liver active and your
blood pure. It takes just two medicines for this: Ayer’s Pills for the liver,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for the blood.
It’s Ayer’s Sarsaparilla you want. Insist upon getting “Ayer’s,” for it’s
Stronger, contains more ingredients, and cures quicker than any other kind.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
Strengthens the Stomach and Aids Digestion
Ayer’s Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition.
Stepared 1>; SB. J. C. AYEB & CO.. Sowell, Iffaee., XT. S. A.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Ij’Oß Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, liOss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosriveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILE GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, <and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System : restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud ok Health the Whole Physical Enekgy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in ail classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Ber'luun s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinein
he v<.r.d. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENSLAHD.
Solti Mverywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
fsd
f
sdf
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY,
SOME BOOKS
BY
SIR ROBERT!
sd
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
unucm
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Da. E. B. FOOTE,
II Plate*. W Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
(and questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapter*
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its cavers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Datb, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donblly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance; Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’S Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is 6d. Fowler’s Scienge of Life, 10s 6d.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d. Rosario,
2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniqut’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post,
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camiele, Is.
post, . How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is,
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
5s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. postedf Parlor Magic, is
posted. Every Man His Own Buildsr, Is.' Evert
Man His Own Carpenter, is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Datk, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted.. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
is 3d, Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His <Wvn,Schoolsaster. Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfaddkn’s Physical Training.
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science. 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All t ness pricas Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. S&~ Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OP MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT PROM THIS ADVT.
Writ* for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Seat Anywhere for the Asking.
. :
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE. *
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How. TO Max* up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; 'post, I*. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Mad* East, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. ,3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is,
Photography for Amateurs, Gd & Is, Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., Gd., and
Is. .Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingf.rsoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gifsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Ciikvasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d, posted. Wonderful Budoet Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d, post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 7s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. Gd. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, I*. 2d.'posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 ilTus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-,
chanjc, 1016 pages, clo,th bound, 10s. Gd. posted. Tub
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. Gd. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, I*. 3d.
Wannan’S Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. Gd. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
mm
H a ve a greater sale than any other shot-gun cartridge made,
because they are manufactured of the best material, and
cost no more than cheaper-made brands.
guaranteed sure fire and regular.
Specify NEW CLUB, and accept no Substitute.
Dr.MARTIN.
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., XhB.CLSJB.,
L.F.P.S.CK, L.M., etc. 8
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “EJ.ML.EY HOUSE,’’ISI Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DJ?. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“Press Extracts” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
Thus an American paper : “ Why, of course it had to
come : we have been watching' the papers for something
about it for weeks. ‘ Draga of Servia,’ that’s the name
of it, is going to be put on in Chicago first, and it will
probably be about the mellowest melodrama there ever
was. If we don’t get a historical novel about that Ser-
vian episode we’ll be mighty lucky.” “ Karageorgevitch’s
Curse, or the Squelched Swineherd ” is submitted as a
title for the novel.
“ Magda ” : Sudermann’s latest play is the sad story of
an old man’s impotent republicanism. Scene laid in
Prussia, a few years after the Franco-German war, when
the Vaterland was full of military spirit and Gorsave the
Emperor. The hero, known to his provincial townsmen
as the Revolutionary Socrates, is the chairman of a
Treason Club. The local chief magistrate reports the
poor little club to the Government, whereupon all its
members, save Socrates, abandon the cause, and poor old
Soc. , who hopes to be cast into prison, is humiliated by
receiving a royal decoration as a “ suitable punishment
for a harmless law-breaker.” This is the first time a
dramatist has introduced a C.M.G. decoration as an
instrument of torture.
" Hamlet” the mummer : When I was a raw amateur,
a friend and I (his head was much swollen through
winning a 2d. competition) called on a third-rate actor-
manager for a job. “ Good day t Seeking engagements?
H’m ! What’s your line?” My conceited pal spoke in
an assumed deep voice. “ Well, I consider I; can lick
anyone in this tow T n. Can’t I?” he asked, turning to me.
I gave a half affirmative nod, and a smile. V You are
wanting experience. Only wish to go on while we are
here. Right. Come up ■ to-morrow and I’ll give yon
both a few lines.” My friend with the assumed voice and
swelled head spoke again, but was interrupted with'
"For God’s sake, young fellow, talk in your ordinary
voice.” That took him down a peg. He talked pretty
big to the minor members of the co., and they also cooled
him down by giving him wrong cues and slipping one or
two good speeches he had. At the end of the week the
manager came to me and said, “ Here’s 30s. for you
Say nothing to your friend Sparks.” Sparks came up to
him. “Can I have my salary, Mr. ?” “Salary,” he
replied; “ Salary ! You! Surely you don’t expect’any-
thing ! I understood you were <?nly coming on for
experience. And 3’ou demand a salary ! ■ Here ! out you
get, or I’ll call the door-keeper. You—you want a salary !
Why, you’re not worth sixpence! Scrape some of that
conceit off you. youngster, and you may do some good.”
That fellow had talent, and has since become a great
actor but only after he lost his conceit. And I well I
was so beastly inflated through getting the 30s. that I
never did any good afterwards.
“ S.T.S.” : But has the wet finger really anything to do
With the small-girl spitting habit (8., 17/12/3) ? I dis-
tinctly remember Thorne, playing with Mrs. Lewis
in pantomime in Melbourne Exhibition year (Grand
Flaneur’s year). He was a Bad Boy, and his veracity
came into doubt. He simply put one finger in his mouth
and held it up, remarking, “ See that ? ” Then he dried
it on his clothing, and held it up again. “ See that ?” he
" very well , then /” And the evidence was accepted
as conclusive. Now, Thorne was an English actor anneal-
ing to an Australian audience.


Garden
Hose
■■■■■■B
Any-
where
And when you've
got it, you’ll know
it’s the best hose
you ever used.
We stake our
reputation on our
Garden Hose, and
we were the first
rubber manu-
facturers in
Australia
—, too long and
too good a
reputation to risk
on inferior Hose!
THERE’S NO BETTER GARDEN
HOSE THAN OURS.
THERE’S A GOOD DEAL NOT
SO GOOD.
SAMPLES and PRICES POST FREE. ~WI
PEUDRIAU & CO., S2SU
270 Qeorge Street, Sydney.
ENGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY.— AII subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Fayes, 106 Illustrations ;
6s. 6d. posted, b.v L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 413 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
"WORTHINGTON.
Boiler Feed Pump.
a»- SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, London
Warren Webster & Co. New Jersey.
Enquiries Invited for
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
fsd
TAKTGYES
Sole Australian Repbrskntativbb—
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth and Coolgardie.
Sole Agents for
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
FAY-EGAN WOODWORKING MACHINERY
■
New Forms of Vise.
m
mm
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney,
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, etc., eto.
m
■Sir
fsd
T. M. GOODALL & CO., ™ hay st., Sydney
have_«n stock and Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
f
Engineers and Mining Toots, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
*8 * //{£ x y/ fg ‘azig
/
are Direct Importers
and have
f® r 3a1.-
PUMPS
(all sizot
for all
pur post*)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
97 CLAR.EKTCB STREET, SYDNEY.
& CO., ltd
The RAND DRILL CO., New York,
MAKE THE BEST
ROCK DRILLS-AIR COMPRESSORS
IN THE MARKET.
.
mm
'azszziizi'.smm
LITTLE GIANT npi« IL
30NVN3XNIVW QNV DNOtfOAV d(0 AWONG33 'AI
AIIDHdWI? -*oj
The Little Giant and Slugger Drs3]3.
The Imperial High Speed Compressors,
Particulars and Quotations from the Agents—
The Imperial Pneumatic Tools.
The Harrison Coa’-Cutting Machines.
71 Clarence St-, Sydney.
