

McEWAN’S ALE.
IKY
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
IS.
Mining
G-. WATKIHTS Afe CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS ak» GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
AMUSiEME i f OLy an j
V-XUI.
A of Eight Different Articles, comprisin'.
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pockc
and blown out to life-size—causes roars of laughter), 800 l
?f. Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and car
.neks), the Puzzle Ring, -the Wizard’s Fish (gives tin
idoniiition your character—very superior for parb'i
entertainments), the Joker's Love Bond (a good catch'
the Pocket Companion or Combination Co met Candle and
Matchbox, fhe Wizard’s Ring dr the Disappearing Coit
Trick, and, last of all, the Famous Wiz ird of the North'
Changeable Pack of Cards (instructions enclosed)
This splendid packetposted toan.vaddress in Australasia,
free, on receipt of 2s 6d.
H« L. HUTCHI.sSOSI, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
McLAREN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C O - 86M «,sw, SYDNEY.
jrtt Agent* fer J, & H. MoLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers Of Bteam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Spoolal Work.
Wa Stock and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traotlon Engines; RUBTON'B Portable Horizontal and Vertloal Steam Engines;
BBOADBENT’B Hydro Extraotors; KIROHNER’B Baw Mill and Wood-Working Maohlnery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
i It"
;
— xm. —
[jadlegs Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
ĥ
LEATHER
ħ
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
(fyexJL ~So£loa/
/
■fco
VISITS EVERY SHOW.-
PRICE.
h
Electric Light—Mining—
Gas—Oil—Fixed—Portable
—Traction—Air Compres-
sors—Thrashers—Pumps
ĥ
•las. MeEwan & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne.
ħ
Forwood Down & Co.» Ltd.
Adelaide.
Saunders & Stuart,
Fremantle.
Smellie & Co.,
Brisbane.
The National Mortgage & Agency Co., Ltd.
Dunedin.
'ONV-IDNa
‘nioonii
I
IKEGIS r X\HIFU3in.;
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
Cleanses the system in three weeks from tile
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO L OSS OF WORK,
MO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover .
Strictly Confidential.
A. G. LUMSDEN,
74 vnroßia road.
AUBURN, .<! -LTOURNE
«
■<%
<RflcCA?ocK>
#
HERVEY’S
18 Tears Unbroken Record
as a Standard Australian
Explosive.
h
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. G. J XSJ?,ITDG--E & GO
DYERS & GLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
C 0717117 y Orders by post from ail the colonies promptly
ASTHMA
Ke/trtnett throughout Ortat Britain and Ctltniit.
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
- 1 produce an attack. You can
. , , A an atxacK. xou can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Lured to stay cured, by elimination and ro*
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
g?j‘ e . d Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
I?* 3 - Explanatory BOf K 32c post FREE,
toffalo* P ’c a s R A LD Hayes ’ ABTUMATIC Institute,
THE
PLUM’
ĥ
THE
‘PLUM
1
ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
dge that is required to ensure jin easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“ RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Prick
e Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in heautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21«.
Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. 1<
Post
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using: CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. larg-e bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
■
’too Ball
n
Dr. Walsh, of the London Skin
Hospital, says :—“ Oily and per-
fumed preparations may be
charged with bacteria . . in
health they are needless and in
disease a danger.”
CAPILLA
Hair Tonic
is a clean, spirituous and medical
preparation, without a trace of any
perfume or harmful ingredients.
Mr. David Lowndes, Petrie Ter-
race, Brisbane, writes :—“ While
in Sydney I purchased a bottle of
your Oapilla, and I find it to be
an excellent restorer. I enclose a
postal note for two more bottles. ”
All Chemists and Storekeepers stock
Parti 11 a
A BOTTLE.
Or I will post tv you a full course of
six bottles, and letter of advice for JBI,
W. OLIVER RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor and Inventor,
164 Pitt St, Sydney, N.S.W.
' 2/6
MEMO. FOR 1904; <s AUT HELIDOIM AUT NULLUS."
The Bulletin
Vol 25.—N0. 1251.]
[Thursday, February 4, 1904.
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Poet aa a Newspaper.


;r.-v
l
Now Ready.
PHIL MAY
IN
AUSTRALIA
A handsome volume in demy
folio (18 inches by 12 inches),
bound in half-cloth, decorated.
Price, One Guinea.
The most sumptuous book of
the kind published in Australia.
Contains a complete series of
best examples of Australian work
by the most brilliant draughts-
man of his generation.
With an account of the life
and work of Maj', and a full
iconography.
Portraits of Henry Parkes,
Graham Berry, Cardinal Moran,
George Copp n, Edmund Barton,
and fifty others <>f note':
Scores of striking Cartoons
and Humourous Pictures,
A series of “Things We See
When We Come Out Without
Our Gun.”
The edition de luxe, limited to
975 copies, and not to be re-
printed.
Half the .available copies were
sold before ptis-'i.-ation : th“ re-
maining copies are being rapidly
disposed of.
A -book invaluable to the
Student and amateur of art,
and fu'l of personal interest to
Australians.
Gan i**> inspected at. all the
leading b-okseiiers’, or at the
publisher's office.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 Gkoeok St., Sydney. '
ifteSi-.
\ iEM :Waf7Ti Mfi F PHil mU
— ' ——
THE LATEST
BOOKS AT
Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Evans, Magic and its Professors, ss, postage Bd.
ChainherVCyclopiedia of English Literature,Vol. 3,12 s 6d,
i). Is Id.' Turner, Legal T Leaves, ss, p. lid.
Avenurv, Essays and Addresses, 1900-1903, 9s, p. Bd.
Major (Chas.), A Forest Hearth, 2s Gd & 3s 6d, p. Gd.
Foster, Bridge Tactics, 3s 6d, postage 4d.
A Keystone of Empire, 7s'6d, p. Bd.
Mediaeval England (Story of the Nations), ss, p. 7d.
Fulleylove and Thomas, Oxford, Col. Illus., 245, p. Is 2d.
Sergeant, The Enthusiast, 3s Gd, p. 6d.
Another hook of Scotch humour b.v J. J. Bell, “ Mistress McLeerie,” Is 3d. postage 2d.
~ , „ w— -- » <• Ethel,” each Is 3d, postage 2d extra.
Also, by the same author, “ Wee Macgreegor,” and
71 CASTLEREAGH ST,, SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbot
Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
wm
I
■V
a
ħ
h
ĥ
nhe Australasian Medical Gazette says.-
tfof Gre«\t Service in Affections
”1 of the Voice. 8. Throat V
Sold by Chemists, tins, 1« or from the Manufacturer, G.anTat S^o’KeKent^ 0 , London,
stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 4 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian states
THE RED PAGE.
CONSIDERATIONS
Struck by the fact that there is no good edition
of “Cook’s Voyages” sold currently, Lond. Outlook
enquires ‘ ‘ Is there any special demand from Australia
and New Zealand for Captain Cook’s records ? ” There is
not. A small number of cheap abridgments sell annually
for school prizes, and if the three voyages could be printed
for the price of the first voyage in Wharton’s edition, to
retail at about 10s., there would be a limited demand—say
500 copies to begin with and 100 copies a year thereafter, if
the book got reasonable push and advertisement. But,
generally speaking, Australians have no taste for ancient
history : they want the novel note, the momentary im-
pression. Much can be said for the attitude. “ The
savage turning in his tomb ” of each of us demands to be
considered critically. It was reasonable that in his day
he should praise past time, seeing that he had no com-
prehension of his place in time coming. But we
can follow his bent of ancestor-worship too far. After
all, what have deeds that won the empire to do with
us? What fun or satisfaction, what fuller, keener
life, are we going to get out of them ? They have been
written off to last century’s profit and loss account, and
concern to-day’s business no more. “ But if they had not
been, you would not be.” Fallacious “if” ! They were:
we are. A living dog is better than a dead lion,” says
Hebrew wisdom. “ Carpe diem ! ” says Latin wisdom.
“ Eyes front [--forward, march!” says Australian wisdom.
This is not a diatribe against knowledge.
Knowledge is an excellent thing, to be held in reserve in
the libraries. But most of the knowledge that has been
accumulated is useless (o you personally. Too many
facts—or lies—have been accumulated about too many
people to be overtaken by any one man’s acquirement.
Since the damnable (?) invention of printing “ the mass
grows more and more of volumes yet to read, of secrets
still to explore.” Why not admit frankly that most are
not worth reading or exploring,?- for us. “II faut
cultiver son jardin,” says last week’s bridegroom. But
accumulation is not cultivation. “ Faut une bonne a
tout faire,” says last year’s. You want a just
impression of past history and present relations,
and details don’t matter if your mind is a fit
engine of acquisition. Then, if you need knowledge,
you can absorb it at any time as a barrister absorbs his
brief. Learn, as he does, general principles ; and let the
particular application depend upon the minute’s fee.
What modernity implies is not a brain full of knowledge,
but one full of indices to knowledge. A dull mind and a
memory laden with accurate information ahout Captain
Cook are not to be preferred to a fresh mind that knows
merely where to find accurate information about Captain
Cook—when wanted. Most of us will never want it. It
takes us all our time to build a house and plant a tree
and father a son : the three things that ancestral wisdom
recommended in posterity-worship.
&
These are the things, it appears, which
Spencer regretted he had no share in. Mommsen
managed to combine literary creation with a baker’s
dozen of a family ; but Spencer, farther removed from
the primitive friends of Tacitus, deliberately rejected
marriage in favour of fame. He has been represented as
doubting the wisdom of the choice.. .when he reflected
how slowly his books sold. Those books illus-
trate the argument: they were useful in their
day, but now that we have absorbed the cen-
tral idea their laborious proof is negligible. Upon the
stream of science Spencer found a rock and built a light-
house for mariners of his generation. He took the dream
that “ all things the world which fill, Of but one stuff are
spun,” and made it real. He gave the argument of evolu-
tion a universal scope. But the tide of dream and argu-
ment has swept past him. The rays of his lamp still light
the course, but we no longer need to know how he built
the lighthouse. It is sufficient to accept his illumination:
the argument remains for those who have time to study
it. Study will not repay many of us; we must live by
ideas, not by volumes. And Spencer’s idea is unshake-
able, for the light shines.
A By route Australian.
ARTHUR LYNCH, released from prison,
might think it well to return to his native
land. If the stipulation that he is not to
enter Parliament refers to Britain only,
he could find a useful career in Commonwealth
polities. When he left Australia in pursuit of
his ideals national sentiment had not'crystallised
in enduring form. It would be odd, yet natural,
if the Grail sought for in many lands had been
waiting him at home. “ Dreamer,” “ tete
mtintee,” “champion of lost causes” he is de-
scribed ; and his chivalrous sincerity would make
him a valuable force in Federal polities—
not, so far, notorious for sincerity or chivalry.
His talents do not seem remarkable ; but none
can deny him what is rarer and loftier than talent
—the heroic soul. While the rest of us sat smug
and cowardly, however protesting, to watch the
outrage against human right and human liberty
committed by Britain in Africa, he risked Iris life
and the sacrifice of all save honour in defence of
the idea of justice. “Mon idee, ma vie,” is the
motto of his earlier books. Whatever his dis-
illusionment, his manly acts have realised his
boyish dreams.
Why, then, some of his friends have asked, did
Australians make no endeavour to secure his
freedom ? Because he was beaten by greater
force, and there remained only the appeal for
Caesar’s clemency which (one imagines) was the
worst humiliation he would have suffered. He was
defeated ; he paid the penalty of defeat; and it
was reasonable, however wrong, that he should
pay. No State can permit its citizens to take up
hostile arms, whatever the ethical or personal
justification. And the plea that Lynch was not a
citizen of Britain would not bear argument.
Besides, it was known or guessed that his
imprisonment would be comparatively short. The
Government which imprisoned him cannot but
respect him. An apostle of freedom, he can
count, like Paul, a merit in his chains.
&
Born at Srnythesdale, Victoria, in 1861, Arthur
Lynch is in Ins forty-third. year. He was
educated at Ballarat and Melb. University,
whence he took the degrees of M.A. and C.E.
(his father also a civil engineer). A good student
in many ways, he seems to have been by nature
and inclination too versatile to be exceptionally
distinguished. His aim was complete culture of
body and mind. He wrote verses, shone in
mathematics, cultivated modern literature and
ancient philosophy, and was especially proud of
his feats on the running-track. Leaving the Uni-
versity, he set upas civil engineer, grew impatient
of results and took to lecturing ; then felt the
wander-lust (stimulated possibly by the exploits
of his fellow-student, George Morrison) and, after
a tour of Maori land, went as student to Berlin.
His Irish affinities led him thence to an unsuc-
cessful candidature for the Galway seat which he
gained in 1901. He seems to have got in touch
with Irish Nationalist agents in Paris; but he
could not come to terms with Parnell, and after a
fierce contest he was beaten by some fifty votes.
Followed ten years of journalism, authorship,
and political agitation in London and Paris. Lynch
spent some time on the staff of T. P. O’Connor’s
Sun, which sent him as war correspondent with
the Ashanti expedition of 1895. But he had for-
gotten to get a War-Office permit, and was not
allowed to land—his ■ first piece of ill-fortune
from Africa. Yet as a journalist he was
uncommonly successful. His equipment of
brains, languages, and energy was excep-
tional ; and by 1898 he was representative of
The Daily Mail in Paris and special correspon-
dent for Le Journal. But more and more he
tended to action. A trip to America had asso-
ciated him with the “physical force” Irish
liberationists, and it is said that he was docketed
“dangerous” at Scotland Yard. The African
war gave him the chance for which he had been
pining ; and, since his enthusiasms marked him as
easy prey for baser men, he was lucky to make his
coup in a cause so honourable.
Lynch’s literary capacity is that of a clever
journalist. His two books of prose criticism are
interesting keen, pregnant, yet not highly
illumined or finely expressed, and leaving a
memory of occasional acumen rather than of full
judgment. His verse model is usually Bvron,
though his work contains very literal echoes from
Shakespear, Keats, and many another. Indeed, in
his joy in physical exercise, in his poetic ebul-
lition, and in his “ championship of lost causes,”
Lynch may be fairly compared with Byron.
There is no comparison of talents. Lynch’s
verses are essentially commonplace, though un-
usual ; fluent, energetic, very personal, and not
seldom bad in form. Some of the stanzas of A
Koran of Love have singular applicability to
Lynch’s career—
I’d envy then a death for some ideal—
-1 ’ll take no type but keep my proper thought —
And after that a great hope large and leal,
To sene a land oppressed and over-wrought
In griefs, unconquered yet, where yet shall peal
The hymns of freedom, with our life blood fraught :
And then ? Why simply then, whate’er my fate,
With stoic pride, serene and calm to wait. ..
For what is life? Life *s but a worthless toy,
If not the soul within its truest bent
Strain towards some glorious accomplishment...
I turned to look upon my scanty life,
A soldier pressed by numbers did 1 teem,
And brought to bay and wounded in the strife.
Yet buoyed in hope, and dauntless still, I deem,
While high o’er all shrieked thinly Fame’s wild fife ,—
Strange when the substance fades, we hold the dream !
No, no ! the voice that hies us on to glory
Is riot a dream, but life’s own inmost story. ..
A nd at the roll of Alexander’s name
My very flesh did pant and burn for fame...
Once more I look, and Cortes’ noble form
Stands in the lustrous centre of my eye,
My darling hero, who doth best inform
My soul with flashes of nobility...
This, though Spain in Mexico did as Britain in
Africa!
Then who am I ? Even from my inmost heart
Some dim-known Faith hath ever led me on,
Besought me by the fame of great ones gone
To strike a signal fire ere 1 depart. . .
Misfortune, ever better nearer known,
O, stoic teacher t Thou art true to me ;
Ambitions, hopes, and joys have lightly flown,
M comrades noiv are only Pride and thee ...
J*
One cannot find anywhere a reference to
Australia. A later volume, Religio Athletoc, is
devoted to the praise of athletics as the foundation
of manly rength and beauty. Some dogmas and
opinions
I love that fine brave atmosphere of the athlete, the
fresh and lusty strength, the deep repose...l want serenity;
and with it strength always...
With i man, handsome, strong and graceful, and
touchedwith the spirit of prestige; and with a woman,
beautiful, polished, and accomplished in all the arts of
beauty whose glance and whose touch are ever like a
gage to chivalrous deeds, the laws of morality are bounded
by mutual pleasure 0n1y...
I submit that the truest poetry has a certain tone of
simplicity and gains its witchery, one scarcely knows
whence, not from artifice, but from the fineness and
depth of the soul from whence it issues...
Not many beautiful women are seen to the greatest
advantage in the nude...
We must look into a man’s eye as well as upon his con-
formation before we can gauge his value as an athlete
I hardly believe that life has sensations more great
than this—on a genial summer day to come to the scratch
stripped for the contest, and determined that win or
lose your best shall be done, thence to fling yourself in
the race with your rival young ephebes, and having felt
the severity of the struggle in every nerve and limb to
dash first past the tape. What joy when, in the fast
returning crises that bring you hack to strength and
perfect health again, you realize that you have set your
fame once and for all on the records, and that the sweet
and supple limbs that you rejoice in, shining in their
bloom in the sunlight, may be looked upon by all as the
flesh of a hero...
Truly, the succession of Beauty is not limited, and we
in our generation are privileged to look upon more
glorious types of womanhood than the world has seen
before. So I now believe [at thirty-three]; at seventeen
I was sure of it. My blood was hot, and boundless
desires of every kind were fretting at my heart. The
world was represented to my mind as an arena in which
the picture of the youth, straining every nerve to reach
the goal and win the crown of laurel, was no unfitting
image of the main purpose of life. A life of incessant
effort appealed to my fibres, and pain and torment were
but the testing of the Athlete’s mettle. And the deep
emotions, the passions that seemed to gnaw and burn
upon the very vitals of the body—it was delicious then
to feel their spur, perpetually...
Virtue is not summed up by mere abstentions and
circumspect meanness. There is no virtue that is not to
be measured by accomplishment, by vigour, energy,
conquest, by magnificence, gloire...
In an earlier volume, Our Poets, Lynch avenged
himself for the reception that his literary essays
met in London. All the log-rolling cliques would
have none of him ; The Saturday Review, in parti-
cular, made him a laughing-stock ; and, generally
speaking, he found no one to take him seriously.
His books, apparently published at his own ex-
pense, were left on his hands ; and some of them
had to be disposed of as “ remainders” at a- loss.
So, with a memory of English Bards, he penned a
seriea of assaults on the gods of the moment M 291)
—Wilde, Le Gallienne, Swinburne, Lang, Killing
and others. The jibes are too unmeasured to be
really severe, but some of them are written
shrewdly. Of Andrew Lang—
His mind diffuses some illumination
To every theme he merely glances on,
And yet with all this fine appreciation
The primal impulse to create is gone.
Austin Dobson gets this —
’T is sweet to sit beneath the leafy shade
When still not dark—just after dinner hour,
And feel, while yet the sky’s with crimson ray’d
The soft-bloomed quietude’s digestive power.
And then, ere yet a single throb of blood
Should rebel prove to that fine influence,
Rise, dust your knees, smile amiably, be good,
In dear, wise, gentle, meek, mild innocence.
To Oscar Wilde, Lynch was by temperament and
training instinctively opposed, and there is
curious prescience in his summary. “Fewthings
in literature are so saddening as the spectacle of
Oscar Wilde’s career,” lie writes. Wilde’s little
finger, of course, is artistically stronger than
Lynch’s loins; but the younger man, sane and
hale, breathed with disgust the atmosphere
of decadence. “In the exquisite little study,
entitled, ‘ Pen, Pencil, and Poison,’ the word Sin
occurs incessantly. It is tlie key-note, always
struck in with such fine intensity that its delicate
tintinnabulation is heard at last ringing through
the entire theme. And soon.
Lynch is always full of himself; and it is as
the self-study of a cbnrageous and'exuheiant per-
sonality, rather than as literature, that his books
attract a reader.
MEMORANDA
In the admirable Winter Number of The Studio
R. de la Sizerannr nomraents upon Turner’s pine-trees—
-11 repre’sented as much slimmer than they are. in reality,
much more geometrical, devoid of branches, and spread-
ing far too high for human heads the ironical protection
of their parasols.” But already her° it had been pointed
out that Turner drevf gum-trees without knowing them.
Why? Because of his intuition of beauty. Turner was
of the greatest company of artists. Yet (awl not ail
ironically) how much greater he might have become had
he known Australia !
One likes the excellent British person who talks
to The Nineteenth Century about European spas. “ Some
of the springs are stronger than other.-, but. having drunk
most of them, I must record uiy conviction that there is
no difference among them, whatever the doctors may say,
and that, if one took IS grains of hie rbonate of soda and
25 grains of sulphate of soda and di-solved them in a pint
of lukewarm water, they would be just as good as any of
the waters of Carlsbad, while, if one added 10 grains of
citrate of lithia to the mixture, it would be better in the
case of gout than any water in Europe.”
G. H. Lorimer’s new “Graham letters’' run
along briskly. At latest he was talking of letters of intro-
duction. “ Right here I want to caution you against
giving away your signature to every Clarence and Willie
that happens along. When your name is on a note it
stands only for money, but when it’s on a letter of intro-
duction or recommendation it stands for your judgment
of ability and character, and you can’t call it in at the
end of thirty days, either. Giving a letter of introduc-
tion is simply lending yopr name with a man as collateral,
and if he’s no good you can’t have the satisfaction of
redeeming your indorsement even ; and you’re both dis-
credited. The first thing that a young merchant
must learn is that his brand must never appear
on a note, or a ham, or a man that isn’t good ..
It’s a mighty curious thing, belt a lot of men who
have no claim on you, and who would n’t think of asking
for money, will pan-handle both sides of a street for
favours that mean more thanmoney. O' course, it’s the
easy thing and the pleasant thing not to refuse, and after
all, most men think, it does n’t cost any thing hut a few
strokes of the pen, and so they will give a fellow that
they would n’t ordinarily play, on their-friends as a prac-
tical joke a nice sloppy letter qf ijvtrqctuetion to them ;
or hand out to a man that they wduld n’t give away as a
booby prize a letter of recommendation in which they
crack him up as having all the qualities necessary for an
A 1 Sunday-school superintendent and bank president.”
H’m ! a new note in the tune. “Mr. Cham-
berlain is a confirmed smoker .yes,; “he does not take
exercise ” —no; “ and he greatly admires Horace ” —the sly
fox ! Because, of course, Horace erected a monument to
endure longer evei) than Brass.
Max Beerbohm on a question debated ... by
people who don’t know that the criterion of a piece of
art is simply whether it is well or badly done; “We
demand of the playwright who deals with ugly things,
just as we demand of the playwright who deals with
pretty things, something more -than the sight of his sub-
ject matter. Mere gall is no better than mere sugar. It
is worse. Mere sugar is not disgusting. Nor is gall dis-
gusting if it be rightly prepared: In other words, horrible
subject-matter ceases to be horrible when it is treated by
a fine artist. The subject-matter of a tragedy is, in itself,
necessarily horrible. Some tragedies are horrible.
These are the bad tragedies, ungraced by any beauty
or nobility of treatment, or ungraced by an idea, and so
meaning nothing, leading nowhither, merely affronting
us with their own horrors. pain or pleasure
depends not at all on the artist’s material: it does
depend, entirely, on the artist.” Max contradicts him-
self, of course ; but the last sentence is doctrine.
“Evil to him who evil drinks,” quotes Life
TVie reproductions of Mrs. Allingham’s pictures in Happy
England, published by A. & C. Black, should be seen by-
people interested in colour printing. They represent
about the best three-cdldur process work yet done in
England. If they fail artistically ,it is because Mrs. A. is
too literal a copy st Hodder <& Stoughton, London's
demi-Scotch, semi-religious publishing firm, issue Max
Pemberton’s last story, Dr. Xavier. That is one bad
mark for Max, and the story is another.
We shall have to modify that curse against the
current American novel. It really applies only to vapid
stuff like D. G. Phillips’s Golden Fleece— froth that is n’t
even iridescent. But Chambers’s Maids of Paradise
(praised already), John Fox’s The Little Shepherd of King-
dom Come, and Frederick Palmer’s The Vagabond are
in a good second-rate class. The first few chap-
ters of The Little Shepherd are enthralling: fresh,
sincere, strong, with the Lorna Doone feeling of
Man and Nature in them. The whole book is
readable. The Vagabond has less original quality, but it
is a romance that is a rpmance. When American senti-
ment drifts in, toward the end of these books-, the
authors descend from their plane. American sentiment
excludes passion or the representation of passion ; and
the make-believe is n’t convincing or satisfactory. Still,
as make-believe, Fox and Palmer handle their matter
more featly than most.
“He was a Scotchman, and Scotchmen have
always seemed to feel a pained solicitude about the
English speech,” writes Prof. Lounsbury of James Beattie
in Dec. Hamer's. Lounsbury is discussing “ corrupt
English,” and the zealots who would purify it. But
Beattie’s zeal is easily understood. Foreigners who learn
a language painfully seem frequently to resent the fluent
usage of the native-born. Possibly it appears to them
unfair that, after they have devoted time and pains to
mastering the letter, the spirit should be preferred, by
wilful people who “ ought to know better.” There is a
well-meaning German musician down, in Maoriland who
edits a little monthly called The Triad. In every issue
he devotes space to an elaborate criticism of the lin-
guistic blunders made by local singers and writers. Often
he does useful service in his drill-sergeant’s way ; often
his commentary is more faulty than the other fellow's
text. But his “ pained solicitude,” like Beattie's, is the
thing that strikes the philosophic eye.
Some local music-lovers may like-to buy the new.
Lond. edition of Gilbert and Sullivan’s operas in 12
volumes at 3 1. 15s. for subscribers.
The union between W. T. Stead, as proprietor,
and W. H. Fitehett, as editor, of The Review of Reviews
for Australasia, was possibly due to the sympathy
between two Nonconformist consciences. The division
is due to the fact that Stead remains among the company
of anti-Jingoes, while Fitehett insists that Rhodes, Jews,,
and Chinese labour in Africa are all A.M.D.G. and the
Empire. One of the young Steiids came out from Eng-
land recently to find that Fitehett,. with the Review staff,,
was about to publish a new inaga. from the Review
' offices ; and that it was rumoured the Revied > was to
cease Australian publication. This was business ; and
the new niaga. is now to hand — Life. It isn’t attrac-
tive. Why? Well, it lacks individuality; the matter
is cheap and looks cheap; and the type is too small
(Et tu, doesn’t apply, for cases alter circumstances).
Fitehett used to have an uncommon knack of neat para-
graph work : he could say something new, even at
the month-end, and he could say it tersely, with exactly
the right balance of thought and phrase. But for the
last year or more he has been writing smooth common-
place : apparently he has been writing,too much: any-
way, there has been no value in him. For the rest, Life
has too many 1 ill-compounded scraps : a lesser quantity
better written would have left a greater impression.
T. A. Browne’s account of how he wrote Robbery Wilder
Arms is familiar : he should have told us how lie wrote
A Modern Buccaneer. George Reid, informing about his
speeches, is interesting ; and Lorimer’s mew matter is as
good as the old. Generally, there is too much economy
and too much Fitehett—which amount to the same
thing. However, the way to improvement is wide open.
CORRESPONDENTS
“ Reader ” : I£ a bookseller asks you 7s. for Our
New Selection —published at 6s.—write for it direct to this
office. By ordering 12 copies, a bookseller gets the
6s. book tor 4s. s d. If he orders 50 copies, he gets it
for 4s. net. That is to say, he gets one-third of the price ;
and author'and publisher, who divide the other two-
thirds, have to pay for printing and illustrating and
binding the book. Two shillings profit (less freight) on a
6s. book is enough for any reasonable trader. Three
shillings is monstrous “ Myrtle ’’ asks why old Dad never
planted a fruit-tree on “ our selection ” 't. J7J ” com-
plains of the illustrations to Our New Selection. “ "Who-
ever saw an Australian cowyard like that shown with
Dave and Joe milking? No bails ; no leg ropes ; no yam,
in fact,—for they might as well be sitting down in the
middle of the ‘ Old Man Plain,’ for all the difference it
makes to the cows.” Caber writes : The Australian
Star (Sydney), in criticising Our New Selection, wants to
know the date upon which a frost destroyed the wheat
crop, and the latitude and longitude of the trouble. It is
evident that the man who knows anything about farming
has not started writing for the Star yet. At only one
stage of its growth will frost destroy wheat —w'hen in the
“ milk.” This occurred (to. give one instance) at the
latter end of October, 1900, on the plateau of the Central
(Darling) Downs, when thousands of bushels of wheat
were lost—GreenpioUnt (“ Rudd’s ” district) being one of
the stricken localities L.F.: Amy Levy's A Minor Poet
(Unwin’s “Cameo” series) is in print at 3s. 6d. ; A Lon-
don Plane-Tree, out of print, would cost you possibly 10s.
Any intelligent bookseller will procure. YV.A.B.’s “The
Dead March of the Waters ” was republished from The
Bulletin by Melville, Mullen, and Slade, Melbourne, in
1897. Probably they can supply a copy for 2s. 6d. ..C.R.B. :
Apply to Allan’s Music Warehouse, Melbourne ; ss. and
postage.
A.G.S.


WOOL.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FAT SHEEP and CATTLE at HOIEBUSH.
PIGS and CALVES at- - - CITY YARDS.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO
ARE THE BEST SALESMEN.
Cheques sent day after sale. Offices J 48 BRIDGE ST*,
Ltd.
SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation.
SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORBS AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES. •
NEVER RAILS.
t*
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book:
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco
MEN'S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, oz.-Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS—
-ss, 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS—
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS—
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.- sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ \
BATS /
No. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d
BOYS’ BATS,
Cane —
No. 3 4 5 6
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS,\
All Cane— J
5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d
9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d
MEN'S CANE
and RUBBER
BATS-
14s 6d, 15s, 15s 6d, 16s 6d
17s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s, 25s
Send for Oatalogrue, pest Free—full
list of Bats, by all Best Mat: are.
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod-
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG GUARDS-
Boys’, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6d pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s 6d, SBs 6d, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
Gem
3s 6d
Handicap
5s
2
M
StANbAftb
7s 3d
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure in
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 255, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players—
30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, &o.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation ...
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg
SLAZENGER’S Covered.
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered ...
AYRES’ Champion...
... 4* 6d doz.
... 9s 6d „
... 10s „
... 16s „
8s 6d „
12s 6d, 15s „
... 16s „
.tayuor’s
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 20s, 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped by the
N.S. W. Bowling Association.
Remittance, including' payment for
freight, must accompany each order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
IF..
ANY.
MAN.
FEELS PHYSICALLY WEAK OR RUN DOWN; IF HE LACKS ENERGY OR AMBITION; if his
Nervous System requires bracing-up, or he has Constipation, Acidity, Indigestion, Dyspepsia or Flatulency, the
result of a bad working Liver; should he suffer from Pains or Aches of the Body, such as Weak Back or Kidney
Trouble, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Varicocele, Rupture, or Stiff and Swollen Joints, then Electricity
is the Remedy for him.
ALL STRENGTH, ALL NERVE AND MUSCULAR VIGOR, ALL PHYSICAL POWER, have for their
base the Electric Nerve Force of the body. What is lacking when you are weak, nervous, or enfeebled is the loss of that
power, which is necessary in every human being to run the body. For the want of this Electric power your Liver and
Kidneys become inactive ; you are subject to an aching back, tired limbs; you are quickly fatigued ; you are easily tired,
and are subject to mental tremors and forebodings ; you are fearful of failing in all undertakings, and your strength slowly
but surely ebbs away from you. No wonder you are morbid, fearful, and apprehensive, for the above signs indicate
speedy physical wreck and collapse. Don’t neglect such serious symptoms. It is foolish and dangerous to do so. If you
feel the slightest signs, get a
OLD..
0R...
YOUNG
NO
OTHER
GENUINE
DR. McLAUGHLiH ELECTRIC BELT
WILL CURB
WITHOUT
DRUGS.
and it will put you right in a day or two. If you allow yourself to get into a chronic state, you save yourself a lot of misery and suffering by striking at the root of the
evil early. The longer the delay, the more aggravating becomes your ailment. Remember, if you feel yourself gradually losing strength and vitality, attend to it at
once. It is the forerunner of diseases which carry most people to an untimely grave. Buoy yourself up ! Say to yourself—l will not .allow myself to fall into decline.
Come to us; we will advise you without charge, and we will make a man of you. Which now will be your lot —Decay or Robust Manhood ?
Do Not Buy any Kind of So-called Belt that Requires Drug Assistance as well.
Many men and women bear out our statement of its great merits,
as they do.” See these cures :
They say, “If people only knew of its value, they would not suffer
Mr. WILLIAM GUTHRIE, 34 Earl-street, Petrie Terrace, Brisbane,
Queensland, writes:
Dear Sirs,—Before I got your Belt I was troubled with gravel in a severe
form, but since wearing your Belt I thank God and you for my health being
restored, and I have no other trouble. I am glad to say I am quite cured
now. The Belt has brought me out of misery to good health and spirits,
and if people only knew of it they would not suffer as they do. I have
recommended your Belt to a great many, as it quite different to the other
toy things—made of three or four ply flannel for heat. Wishing you
every success.
Mr. J. J. WARD, Jlgrgrl, nr. Llsmore, N.8.W., writes:
Dear Sirs,—l am very thankful to say that I have derived great benefit from
the Belt. My bowels have been very regular from the first time I wore it—they
have teen my greatest trouble through life, and I thought no power could do
me good. In fact, I feel quite twenty years younger. All nervousness has dis-
appeared, and my memory is better. I never thought that Electricity could
build one up and make one feel that life is worth living, after suffering so long.
Mrs. R. PANTEL, 208 Roden-street, West Melbourne, Vic., says
Dear Sirs,—My husband has received great benefit since wearing the Belt,
and we are very glad to be able to say so. The pains he was suffering with so
much in his back, have completely left him. His appetite has greatly increased,
and he is feeling better in every way, thanks to your Electric Belt. My hus-
band is both pleased and thankful at his purchase'of the Belt.
r
Send for Our
Illustrated Book
containing the
Names & Addresses
of many of those who have
worn our Belt, and who
have been cured of different
ailments. It is very inter-
esting, and will show what
can be done.
m
PSCM
tfri
&G*
Wr
» kCfi
izsM
rStissass^
For the benefit of all sufferers, we issue a 64-page Illustrated Book, whioh gives
you full information about the Electric Treatment. It explains everything, and
shows what ailments are cured daily by its use; also giving Illustrations, showing
how the Belt and attachments to all parts of the body are applied. The current
can be supplied to any part where there may be an ache or pain, and there is no
greater power on earth to a wasted, run down, or weak man or woman. We will send
one of the books, in addition to our Book of Cures, to any address FREE and
postage paid on receipt of a post-card.
™ dr. McLaughlin co.
100 W. Market Street, Sydney
MELB. OFFICE —167 E. SWANSTON STREET.
N.Z. OFFICE —54 WILLIS STREET, WELLINGTON.
To the
Ulan or (||oman
who seek 3 t«
OBTAIN RELIEF!
We will be pleased to (jive
all information and advice
Free, and show how this
great appliance is worked
and regulated. Our Consult-
ing Room is open daily from
9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.


Flavelle, Roberts $ Sankey,iM.
Lapidaries ....
Gem Merchants and „ .
Kannf ad tiling Jewellers
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
1
h
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Ho. 1.—3 Fine Brilliant Diamonds £4O, smaller to £10; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds, £25.
Ho. 2.—5 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £6O ; 2 Diamonds
and S Sapphires, £lO to £25.
No. 3.—3 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamonds, £9 ; 3 Fine Pearls
and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4. —1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 5. —3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting, £lO to £l6.
No. 6.—3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
No. 7.—1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5 ; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B.—l Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9.—1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubies, £4 10s.
No. 10.—1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11.—2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
No. 12.—1 Queensland White Topaz (as brilliant as th#
Diamond), £4.
Nfc 13. —Marquise of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
cya»
ĥ
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OF UNSET GEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 GEMS ON HAND.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bobble are universally acknowledged
T'O DEI’Y COIVCPEJXITIOU.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS CORDIALS, too.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
GET BACK YOUR STRENGTH
U.
■
Weak Men, Rheumatics, Nervous People, and
those who have liame Backs, Sciatica, Indiges-
tion, Constipation, and Kidney and Bladder
Troubles
May Get Cured to Stay Cured.
Any man or woman who will secure us can have ou*
appliances and
PAY WHEN CURED.
You run no risk. Failure to cure costs you nothing,
as we take all the chances. Dr. Austin’s Electric Belt is
the best Electric body appliance that has ever been in-
vented. It will last longer and cure quicker than any
other, and is guaranteed not to burn or blister as the old
style belts do.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— We receive thousands of
testimonials from people.who have used our appliances;
copies of these letters will be sent upon application, or
can be seen at our office.
( ■fn' EE ?, OOK ' F I B, 1 ? E ri^ l) v f9 A teautiful Illustrated Medical Book, which
should be read by every adult. This will be sent free, sealed in plain wrapper, all charges
prepaid, It is free and can be had for the asking.
Don’t neglect this splendid opportunity to regain your health. We will make a written
diagnosis of your case FREE. WRITE TO-DAY.
The Dr. Austin improved Electric Belt Co., Dept. M-
-49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
New Zealand Branch: 19 Princes Street, Dunedin.
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Helidon.
ħ
pRQFEiSSOR /V\UDD’S
Vr^‘ 0N tu,! T„t„
v cXIntMOS”'"
CTO PS Zi AI R FA LI. INC OU T
J PREVENTS BALDNF.SS -
- PRICE £ /'C -Ros 1 r. D 3/2, -
G|VE$ LiFE. i 1 C 0 HASH
V
CONTAINS NO A< IDS/ a.
4*’.' '317 «■» ; 5 /s :
h
m
1®
//
\
>ri v
£X*‘f
&M
>:V«
•VY,
AND
EVERYTHING
JBZW
WmSSmention this paper
No
Darkroom
ĥ
ST
IMiIMELBOURNE
m
T&a Universal Remedy lor Acidity ox the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sous- 2b actations, Bilious Affections.
The Physiclan’a
Cure for Gout,
itheumatie Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Tern ales,
and tire
Sickness of Pregnancy.
s
DlffliEF
MAGNESIA
ħ
i
There’s SECURITY In
Carter's
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
bd
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
A
They TOUGH the
Be
•Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Prloa.
LIVER
Sure they are Carter’s
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id,
Post Free.
Hotelkeepers! Make your own SODA WATER
■ with
Eckersley’s Improved Aerated Water Machines
SODA WATER costs per dozen.
LEMONADE, GINGER BEER, GINGER
ALE, &c., &c., 4d. per dozen.
Owing to the number of unscrupulous imitators attempting to exploit a
trade which by virtue of the superiority of our machines we hold, we desire
to point out to intending purchasers:—
(1) That our machines are used solely by His Majesty’s Australian
Squadron, after an exhaustive trial, in which other so-called aerating
machines competed.
(2) That on all the Victorian Railway Refreshment Rooms, after careful
trial and examination, our machines were unanimously selected for
the excellence and purity of the aerated waters produced by them
(3) That the leading Hotels and Clubs throughout Australasia have dis-
carded all other makes of machines and have given ours the preference.
(4) Being by far the largest importers of Pure, Natural, Liquefied Carbonic
Gas in Australia, we can insure to purchasers of our machines an
unfailing supply of this gasl
A few of the hundreds of users of our machines are given below, and
they will be pleased to furnish inquirers with their opinions thereon
The Flagship of the Australian Squadron (H.M.S. Royal Arthur).
George Talmage, Lessee Victorian Railways Refreshment Rooms at
Geelong, Ballarat, and Melbourne (Vic.).
John Rowan, Railway Refreshment Rooms, Warragul, Sale, and
Traralgon (Vie.).
J. P. Rowan, Commercial Hotel, Leongatha (Vic.)
R. G. Drummond, Victoria Hotel, Hamilton (Vic.).
S. J. Carberry, Sportsman’s Arms Hotel, Star of the East, Murchison
(W.A.).
Thomas Barclay, White Cliffs (N.S.W.).
J. J. Kahl, Tattersall’s Hotel, Blackall (Queensland).
We are also Manufacturers of Small Machines for Cafes, Confectioners and Private Use.
Descriptive Catalogue and
Full Particulars from
ECKERSLEY & SONS, 214 Queen St., Melbourne, Vic.


<£>
m
m
If you are young,
you naturally ap-
pear so.
If you are old,
why appear so ?
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
will surely restore
color to your gray
hair, and will give
to it all the
wealth and
gloss of ear-
ly life. It
will stop
falling of
the hair
also; and
will keep
the scalp clean and healthy, entirely
free from dandruff.
And it makes the hair grow thick
and long. This is because it is a hair-
food, giving to the hair just what it
needs to make it grow as nature in-
tended.
Ayer’s Hair Visor
There’s a pleasure in offering to you
such a preparation ; while you will cer-
tainly feel a sense of security in using
something that others have used for
half a century.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Maas., U.SX
EVERY WOMAN
S 3
, -> . ‘ ■
SB
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The
best, safest & most convenient.
It Clenses Instantly,
If your Chemist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated book, sent free—
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, endorsed by physicians.
AWARDED—
Diploma of Honor and Gold Medal by
Societe D’Hygiene de France, Oct, 9, 1902.
The only Female Syrir ge in the world
which has ever received this honor.
THE MftRYEL C©.,
284 George St., Sydney, ff.S.W*
POSTAL ADDRESS,BOX 623, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted, Write for Terms.
Mention this paper.
XJSB__—«».
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
&
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
h
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
Models
£2.10t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Kims,
tree Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port in Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres, A ccessories, Sporting Goods &
'hewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
’Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO, U.S.A. and LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
ĥ
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H, READ,
163. Collins §tr?et. Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and O.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
. cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fme.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Shout,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winciicombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary — Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Flavelle, Roberts & Sankey, Limited,
ħ
OPTICIANS,
BRISBANE.
All classes of
Scientific Instruments, Theodolites, Levels,
Prismatic Compasses, Clinometers,
Rain-Gauges, Pocket Compasses,
Barometers, Thermometers,
Assay Balances.
REPAIRING OF SCIENTIFIC INSTRU-
MENTS a Speciality.
H.F. SMITH ✓
21/-
21/-
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wale*.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value—best in Austral-
asia.
Yours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading: Jeweller.
H. F. SMITH,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA
Afcutw
» .22 Caliber Cartridges
If you want to use .22 Caliber Rim Fire Cartridges that shoot
strongly and accurately, buy the time-tried Winchester make,
having the trade-mark “H ” on the head. They cost but a
few pence more a box than the cheap, unreliable kind, and
they are shillings better. Winchester .22 Caliber Cartridges
are furnished loaded with either black or smokeless powder, the
latter being loaded with the celebrated Winchester Grease-
less Bullets, which make them very clean to handle.
FOR SALE BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
COOLING, ‘FRUIT REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING. SALT.’
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castiereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
....... „ . _ (Freehold or C. Py and C.L.) or Government Stock of
ny of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rate!} of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by
without notice or payment of any finer
instalments,
HARRISON, JONES •$* DEVLIN,
Wool Brokers,
Fat Stock Salesmen,
Stock Station Agents,
Our Charge for selling
Wool of the New Clip
is reduced to
h
Per
Cent
Being a Consolidated Charge
includes Commission, Insurance
while in Store, Weighing, Cata-
loguing, &c., &c.
Auction Sales held on all advertised dates of Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, and all Station Produce.
Stores and Offices : Circular Quay, Sydney.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The River Bells.
So loud in the morning light they ring
They set the stars a-quiver.
Whore the rapids clatter they sway and swing,
And I trow each bell has a golden string
Which the fairies tug for ever.
In the flush,
In the hush
Of the dawn they ring—
“ Dong ! Dong ! Ding !”
Down in the laughing river.
And they chime so slow in the drowsy noon
When the river grasses quiver,
When the lilies droop in the glare, and swoon,
And the willows sway to an ocean tune,
That the soft sea-winds deliver.
They swing,
And they ring
In the stifling noon—
“ Dong ! Dong ! Ding ! ”
Deep in the lazy river.
And they toll so softly at eventide,
When the nodding rushes shiver,
And the ripples gleam in the golden pride
Of a sun that marches through star-lands wide,
To the Land of the Great Light-Giver.
They roll,
And they toll
In the eventide—
“ Dong ! Dong ! Ding !"
Sweet in the rushing river.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
Yester-Even.
If I told you, maiden fair,
When I met you yester-night—
Flowers and berries in your hair
Rippling in a wondrous snare,
Clinging to your forehead white—
If I told you I had altered
Would my lying lips have faltered ?
Would you think me over-bold —
Standing close beside you there —
If I shore one curl of gold
As they did in days of old
For a keepsake I might wear ?
Would you think me wild and reckless
If I made my arms your necklace ?
If I wooed you, little maid,
With the grace of old-time wooers—
When we stood within the shade—
Would you shrink from me afraid
If my lips were pressed to yours
And my passioned kisses burned them ?
Tell me, would you have returned them ?
When you laid your dainty hand
On my lips to keep them mute.
Did you, could you understand
How I plotted, schemed and planned
That your lips might follow suit ?
Had I won them with my scheming,
They were mine for fevered dreaming.
If I whispered in your ear,
When your tresses swept my cheek
In the moonlight, soft and clear,
Whispered words you should not hear,
Words that I should never speak—
If I told you that I loved you,
Would my words have thrilled or moved you?
If they had, oh, little girl,
And your face grew wondrous wise
’Neath its brow of gleaming pearl ;
If I, fondling back each curl,
Read the love-light in your eyes,
I would barter hopes of heaven
For another yester-even.
vio.
C. CRAWFORD.
If I Have Been a Failure.
If I have thrown the sword down,
If I have quit the fray,
Remember, ah, remember,
Man will not fight alway.
And if I’ve left the roadway
That leads aloft to fame—
If I have been a failure,
At least I feel no shame.
If I have chosen by-ways,
The little paths of green,
Remember, ah, I pray you,
What men you might have been
If you had left the high-road,
The hard road winding on—
Remember, ere you blame me,
What joys you might have won.
If you had followed my way,
The little tracks of Love,
The cold winds had not numbed you
On lofty plains above.
The pleasures of the by-paths
Are sweeter far than fame —
When hearts are dead and bloodless
There’s naught in gauds and name.
The stars have shone on my paths,
The sun hath cherished.me,
Soft arms have stretched in welcome
Beside the shining sea.
Red lips have been my mile-posts,
Sweet eyes have been my stars,
While ye have climbed, a-weary,
To Fame’s gray prison-bars!
The winds have beaten on you
While I have lain at rest,
While I have laid my forehead
On Love’s head golden-tressed.
The stony ways have hurt you,
Your hearts have yearned fcr fame;
If I have been a failuie,
At least ’tis but in name.
For you have tasted sadness,
The failure of success,
The barrenness of title,
Fame’s bitter emptiness;
While I have supped and revelled,
While I have played Love’s game—
If I have been a failure,
At least I feel no shame.
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT,
GOUT
PILIiS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines. '
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
A NOVEL PRESENT.^
f)N receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Set. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In lfict.jG.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
THE ELECTRIC ERA
Which we send FREE
TO ALL explains WHY
weak men are WEAK,
and STRONG men are
STRONG. It deals
comprehensively with
the CAUSES and
SYMPTOMS of disease.
11 explain s their
ORIGIN and shows
how they can be
SPEEDILY CURED by
restoring- the consti-
tutional VITALITY
to the NERVOUS and
physically WEAK
MAN or WOMAN. It
tells you how LAME
BACK, KIDNEY
TRO ÜBLES, EHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA,
ASTHMA, BRON-
CHITIS, INDICES-
T „ rnT , TION and TORPID
LIVER can be CURED. How WEAKNESS and
DEBILITY can be replaced by ROBUST HEALTH and
VIGOR. It is of VITAL interest to the SICK, the
SUFFERING and the WEAK. It is sent in a PLAIN
SEALED envelope, and is FREE TO ALL. Call or write.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE COMPANY,
Dept. H., 63 Hlizabeth-st., Sydney.
’tLBCWCj
ĥ
" ACTS UKB A CHARM.”
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CURB
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
28. 9d. PER BOTTLES
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbouros
BAD COMPLEXIONS
Dry Thin and Falling Hairandßed
Rough Hands Prevented by
CUTICUIU SOAP
MILLIONS use Cuticura Soap, assisted by Cuticura Ointment,
for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for cleans-
ing the scalp of crusts-, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping
of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red,
rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the
form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes, for ulcerative weak-
nesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic, cleansing purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers, and for all
the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Cuticura Soap com-
bines delicate emollient properties derived from Cuticura Ointment,
the great skin cure, with the purest of cleansing ingredients and
the most refreshing of flower odours. No other medicated soap is to
be compared with it for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair, and hands. No other foreign or domestic toilet soap,
however expensive, is to be compared with it for all the purposes of
the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combines in One Soap at One
Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the best toilet and
baby soap in the world.
COMPLETE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
Irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often suflicient to cure torturing, disfiguring humours, eczemas,
rashes, and irritations, with loss of hair, when all else fails. Sold throughout the world.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq.,
London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Potter Drug and Chem CORP.,
Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
PIITIPIIRA Dll I C (Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
UUIIUIHIH lILOULII.II I rILLO odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest,
most successful and economical blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-
digestives, yet compounded.
CLOTHED WITH: AIR.
AERTEX
The Original
CELLULAR.
Tb« Healthiest and most Comfortable Underwear tor Men, Women and
Children.
The continually increasing popularity of Aertex Cellular Clothing
has led to numerous inferior imitations being sold under similar
names.
The public are warned against buying imitations when described
as “just as good as Aqrtex,"
SOLE AGENTB !
Illustrated Catalogues
and Patterns post free.
D. BRAHAM & CO
73 and 75 King* Street.
GOOD HAIR FOR
ALL!
*
5S
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
SST For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. j postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND'S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It. acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soui. & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
_ CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by ftll Chemists! and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane : Mr. GORDON 92 Genre?*
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and *
E. HOLLAND,, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
WILL ANDRADE S list of BOONS
ħ
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, East Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
Howto Mesmerise iHypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc., Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is , post Is 2d. Kelly Gang ’of ‘Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d."
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 suhjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Mi.kb Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Cloo Dancing, Is. Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
ANia ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues : —No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2 : Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET,
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
SYDNEY
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHtSJ
BUN-AWAY PRICES
This Month
to Advertise
our
Ostrich
Tips
3 Tips with
Ospreys,
Black, Cream,
or Black tipped
with White.
h
A MARVEL OP CHEAPNESS.
The Bunch
Post Free.
2/6
Postal Note.
Write To-Day.
New Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHERSMOR,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
VANISHED VIGOR
From any cause Speedily
and Permanently
RESTORED.
YOU WRITE. I CURE.
SURGEON LPSTON’S
IMPROVED
ĥ
Has completely
Cured Thousands ot •
SUFFERING MEN.
IT IS NOT A BELT.
IT WILL NOT BURN YOU.
Here is Nothing to Wear
It is Sure, Safe,
Speedy, Secret, and Simple.
For All Forms of
NERVE, BLOOD, AND
SKSN DISEASES
Consult the Only Qualified
Specialist who has no Record
of Failure.
Let me give you back your
Manliness.
VARICOCELE CURED
Without Operation or Pain.
SOBGEON LANGSTON,
* M.R.C.S , ENG., *
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
NERVOUSNESS.
XiOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBIUTY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy* and at lait dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
Oharge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Free for Asking:.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Armand Goijraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
nips
DEAF
ħ
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
fto the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NABT, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
BEFORE GOING TO BED
USE
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth
Powder
instead of leaving your teeth exposed
all night to the spread of decay.
It is antiseptic, pleasant and
refreshing, and has the largest sale
of any dentifrice.
CALVERT’S
Prickly-Heat Soap
(10% Crystal Carbolic)
is a pleasant antiseptic soap, specially suited
for bath and toilet use in hot climates.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester
ENGLAND.


Long and Weary Suffering.
Rheumatic Fever and a Torpid Liver.
An Eight Years Permanent Cure.
The CftB6 of Mre. H. R. LAWLER.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER).
Every scientific discovery means the
introduction of some commodity for the
purpose of rendering » service to the
multitude of its users, and as the public’s
ready appreciation of everything possessing
indisputable merit is observable on all sides,
as will be noticed by the remarks of Mrs.
Hester Rose Lawler, of No. 4 Broadstairs-
street, Balmain, it is considered necessary
to place the following narrative before the
general reader.
Mrs. Lawler’s introductory statement
was:—“Several years before I married I
was taken ill with rheumatic fever. All my
joints swelled up and were most painful, my
knees being particularly bad. My head was
dso terribly swollen, besides being so
afflicted with severe pains that I scarcely
knew what I was doing half my time. The
loctor gave me some medicine which caused
i burning sensation in my chest, and I felt
o distressed after taking each dose that I
sked him to change it, but he said it was
he best medicine he could give me.”
Reporter : “ Was there no ease whatever
lerivable from the treatment he gave you?”
Mrs.<«j Lawler: “Not the slightest.
Previous to my attack I was an unusually
strong woman, capable of working hard all
day without showing any signs of fatigue,
but for four years afterwards I was subject
to such sudden seizures of intense paina and
faintness that in the middle of any light
task I was often compelled to leave the
work undone and lie down for the rest of
the day. With my rheumatism came a
complete collapse of the system, everything
seeming to go wrong at once. The terrific
agonies running through my body kept me
awake at nights, so that when I ought to
have been getting up I felt so dead beat and
depressed that I had no ability or desire to
do anything. Thus the days and months
dragged wearily on, and my condition was
getting worse all the time. My appetite
was in a very bad way too, for I seldom wanted
any food, and if I took a little it did not do
me any good because it would not digest.”
Reporter : “ How could you tell that ? ”
Mrs. Lawler: “Because I felt almost
stifled through having a heavy pain in the
elicsc for one thing, and my stomach felt as
unsettle 1 as if I had drunk a cupful of
yeast. Sometimes the food turned positively
sour and came up again, but before it was
vomited I always suffered acutely from
internal pains. Biliousness gave my mouth
such a nasty taste that retching used to
come on, and what an awful time I had with
sick headaches ! They made my eyes feel
swollen, and my sight was bad. The
swollen state of my ankles and feet often
prevented me from putting my shoes on,
yet, in a way, this did not matter much, as
I was generally too weak to walk about.
There was also something radically wrong
with my shoulders, as I could feel a sharp
pain between them which gave me more
annoyance than enough, and the aches in my
loins were even worse. Suffering so long
and Beeing myself going down hill year after
year at last made me utterably miserable,
and fears about the future were constantly
thrusting themselves upon my mind.”
Reporter: “ Are you naturally of a
nervous temperament ? ”
Mrs. Lawler : “ Not by any means ; but
when I was ill my nervous system was
greatly weakened, and if anything startled
me I could feel them jumping as though
they had been cut loose. People say that
life is sweet under any circumstances, but I
used to think I would rather die than live
this unbearably painful existence any
longer. Up to this time I could never
understand why people should look at the
black side of everything, and allow them-
selves to think of ail sorts of things that are
going to happen ; but that is exactly the
frame of mind I was in, so it must be ill-
health which accounts for such unhappiness,
Anyway, I was too weak and weary to
trouble much about anything, but, thank
God ! all that has passed, and for eight years
I have been free from all the tormenting
symptoms which were bearing me down t
the grave.”
Reporter: “ You had a change in your
treatment, I presume ? ”
Mrs. Lawler: “ You may depend I had,
or else I would not be able to speak to you
as I have done, and it was a friend who
gave the advice which resulted in the
obliteration of my maladies. He was a
friend of my husband’s, and he said he could
recommend something that would do me
good. *lt is Clements Tonic,’ he said, * and
you cannot go wrong if you take it, because
it cured me when I was in the same state
as yeti are in now.* Dubious as I was
through losing confidence in previous medi-
cines, I purchased some Clements Tonic,
and before going any further I would like
to state that it was the only medicine which
did me any good at all. The revivifying
effects of Clements Tonic were nothing short
of miraculous, as two or three bottles set
new vigour coursing through my weakened
system, and I passed from a long period of
melancholy hopelessness to a life of comfort
and cheerfulness. It took a little time, of
course, but the fact remains that Clements
Tonic gradually braced me up and started
to ease my pains very quickly. My people
got a surprise when I started to eat, because
it was so long since I had experienced the
sensation of being hungry, and my appetite
became more vigorous as the days went by.
I am positive that nothing in the world
can equal Clements Tonic for producing
refreshing and peaceful sleep, as it made
me sleep shortly after retiring to bed,
dreams never troubling me, and when I
awoke there was no bitter taste to sicken
me, and the aching sensations had left my
head and limbs.”
Reporter. “Your rheumatic pains—did
Clements Tonic affect them ? ”
Mrs. Lawler : “ Affect them ! Why, when
I could take plenty of food without vomit-
ing or retching, or feeling any pains in the
chest or stomach after meals, I was nearly
as well as ever, because by that time the
swellings in my limbs had gone down and
the rheumatic pains were hardly noticeable.
All I wanted was another bottle or two of
Clements Tonic, and you may be assured
that I got them. The end to my sufferings
was assured in the tone and steadiness which
Clements Tonic imparted to my nervous
system, and in due course ihere was
nothing in my appearance to indicate that
I had gone through the serious illness which
had set at defiance all other medicines
excepting Clements Tonic.”
Reporter: “ may I bring your statements
before the public ? ”
Mrs. Lawler: “You are at liberty to
publish them in any way you think best,
as I cannot speak too freely or too gratefully
about Clements Tonic for giving me the
splendid health I now enjoy.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Hester Rose Lawler, of 4 Broads'airs-street,
Balmain, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of five folios, and
consecutively numbered from one to five, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic; and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Balmain, this eighteenth
day of February, one thousand nine hundred and
two, before me,
WILLIAM B. SIMPSON, J.P.
TARPAULINS,
CART, WAGGON and
MACHINERY
Canvas
Cotton Duck
Patent
Waterproof
Cloth.
ALL HAND-SEWNi
4Sa
M
COVERS
AT SPOT CASH
PRICES.
Estimate* Sent by
Return Post.
SEND FOR LIST.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd.,
7 & 9 MARKET STREET,
SY3DMEY.
Eureema Ointment.
A Special Cure for ECZEMA and other
SKIN DISEASES.
t ?\ ti T niala he,d - In jars, 2s - an d 3s. 6d. If
particulars ke6P 14 Send 2d. for free sample
HARDEN & CO., Agents for Australia,
34 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dr. Ricord’s Marvellous Medicine
g/- Bottle; Postage 1/-
CURES PILES
Bleeding, Itching, &c.
Skin and Blood Diseases.
Write for Free Booklets.
Agents:— Formont & Co.,_si Queen Street, Melbourne.
Sub-Agents
Beddome & Co.,Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Faulding & Co., Sydney, Adelaide, Perth.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
p rloe, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
A WINNER on Every Round.
Cl
m
/
/
A
GREAT
DEAL
of sat-
isfaction ,
is derived
by using
a perfect
working
fountain
pen.
<
f w«
pur-
ante*
MtlßfM*
(ion to
•T»fy
ooerof
Mable, Todd & Bard,
London Man-
chester , Eng.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers, and Importers.
jg'OTICK TO HWEC.BOURNBS VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lot
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets anil
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING! FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
SHREDDED WHEAT.
TRISCUIT,
The dainty, eleetric-baked substitute for bread, toast,
biscuits. For use with butter, &c., at every meal. Put
in hot oven to crisp before using.
Use also Shredded Wheat Biscuit with milk or
fruit, instead of porridge, pudding, or pastry.
All grocers. Sole Agent—
J. HENDERSON, 117 Collins Street, flelbourne.
£for£liu,eL lights
ZteciLUu/ JnfauL
TRY
Zrhe
FOO
fie fuse a// Z/n/faf/ons
SaMyihi. Strengthening Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
AGF/PTS FOP SYDfifY.
SAYffiS A/.lPOfir 6c POFFFfi
RIDGE’S FOOD MILLS. LONDON. Enc
DEBILITATED
TTfTEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
W trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE; You will he more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R .C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
sisriDiisriEir-
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
BONANZA PACKET BEERS
Brew Your Own Beer!
Ordinary Household Utensils.
Non-Intoxicating. No Salicylic. Pure Hops, Herbs,
and Fruit Extracts.
No Trouble. No Yeast Required.
Bonanza Beers make their own Qas.
Ginger, Kola, Hop, Bitter and Table Beer, Dandelion,
Ale, Lemonade, Shandygaff, Ciderade, Stout. _
All stores and grocers. 1, 2 and 5 gal. packets, 6d., Is.,
25., or direct by post to any State, Bd., Is. 3d., 2s. 3d.
Draught Ciderade, without gas, made with cold
water, and ready for use in one hour.
SPEClAL.—Bonanza Sarsaparilla is the best
blood-purifier in the world, and contains the genuine
Jamaica Boot. In 1 and 2 gal. packets, Is. and 2s.
T. DORGAN & SON,
143 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
ril Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
SF
IIkVP
Thtßstu*.
CRAIG &. AITKEIM. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.,
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeeper
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use. —Throw the Carbide down the tub
the Machine does the rest.
» £
to house
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained severa
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un.
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public ar
requested to see that each drum bears our label, withou
which the user is liable to an action for infringement
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, o
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co* of Australasia* Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism.Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy ■
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstue & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


BRANDT.
Insist
Upon
Having:
It.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
h
Engineman’s Master Key
Second Edition.
All Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the States in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Minins’ Regulations.
360 Pages, over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
R
EYNOLDS’S
NEWSPAPER
FOR ARTICLES ON
Labor and Wages and Labor Disputes.
MOTTO: Government of the People, by
the People, for the People.
PRICE-ONE PENNY WEEKLY.
JOHN DICKS, Effingham House, Arundel-street,
London, Erig.
USIIMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id. Post Free.
TWO POINTS OF MUCH IMPORTANCE.
iMenburys Foods
The great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure
due to the two following important facts:—
(l) Their similarity in composition to human milk; the constituents being in (a) The readiness with which they can De digested and assimilated by
the same relative proportions. _ . the infant,both foods being as easy of assimilation as maternal milk,
Mixed with water according to the directions a humanized milk is provided. and much more so than ordinary modified or diluted cow's milk.
The “ Allenbirrys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are in the
form of powder and keep perfectly, RKS* Pamphlet on “ infant feeding ” (48 pages) free,
from 495 ' Bottrke street, Melbourne,
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six monms.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
Allen & Hanburys, Ltd., fPlougd Qourt, Lombard St., Jbondon.
TEST MATCH—OVER.
CYCLING CABNIVAL—OYER.
WAR-NOT YET—
RUSSIA BACKING DOWN.
“CAMEO” CIGARETTES
STILL GAINING FAVOUR.
UNMISTAKABLY THE BEST.
UNDOUBTEDLY THE MOST PERFECT
IN FLAVOUR AND MANUFACTURE.
FOR THE HANSION
FOR THE COTTAGE
Ruberoid Roofing has stood all tests. Lifetimes
have been spent in testing it. No other roofing
will do for people requiring the genuine article.
Ruberoid has thousands of friends—one trial
will add you to the list. It is just as suitable for
the £3OOO mansion as for the £3OO cottage.
/
Mi! kku
■jmr
MM
m
Mm
//*-
m/M/M
w//
■-"'•Si
nsir
n
ca3QgKlißttßHHttaj:g(,
tBBBBagggH I &?>T< IaBBPBBaP
MwwsK*as&ki
BBHBEi nnc
s\ *
rmmm
IJII
!
!
I II
u
J’-'jj
IMI)
m
m
am
RUBEROID
ROOFING
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY and
BRISBANE.
Fremantle, W.A. :
J. M. FERGUSON, Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.:
A. W. SANDFORD & 00.
Melbourne, Vic.:
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO.
Launceston, Tas. :
IIEDLEY BUTTON.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 25.—N0. 1251.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1904.
Pbios; 6d.
THE MEETING OF TREASURERS (MELBOURNE, FEBRUARY 5, 1904).


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
*• Australia for the Australians. M
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 ® “
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 ** ®
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Offlet Twenty-
Six' Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bullhuh posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expi-essly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable s,
acknowledge in the •* Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and, stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending.MS. to distinctly understand that we
are notresponsiblefor its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lllaelc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhieh
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Qordon and
Ootch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Ootch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Ootch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Oranger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Owelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Mono Kong —Brewer and Co., 29 Queens Road, Uong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Breioer and Co.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1904.
The Deadly Spirit of Compromise.
When the call was made a month ago for a
Whole Hog Party—one with a platform of
honesty so bold and decisive that it would make
everybody either enthusiastically praise or
enthusiastically curse—there did not at the time
seem any party likely to meet the call. But The
Bulletin devoutly hoped that its old friend, the
Labor party, would come forward to take up the
work—necessarily undergoing considerable con-
version first. Last week the Labor Leagues met
in conference to talk about that and other
matters. Practically every district was repre-
sented. From wayback, delegates came full
of fine enthusiasm. If it had been left
to them—the bush-worker and the miner—
there is no doubt what the answer would have
been. Whole Hog themselves downright,
thoroufc.i, unoom promising—they would have
jumped at the chance to give to the political
movement their own spirit. But they had to
reckon with another force, which was merely the
old enemy, Vested Interests, in the new disguise
of the sitting Labor member; and Vested Interests
temporised and compromised, and the final de-
cision of the Conference was Yes-No. An honest
Yes to the demand for a Whole Hog party was
advocated by the Federal Labor members and by
Mr. Dacey among the State members, but, as a
party, the State members were against the policy
of Thorough ; and were joined by those timorous
souls who were led by practised tongues to
look at things in the light of compromise.
Many of these —perhaps most of them—liked
Honesty. To them personally it seemed the
proper course. But what of the “general public”?
What of the man who runs the grocery at the
corner, and the alderman who is a butcher down
the street ? The Whole Hog might alarm these.
Vested Interests said: “Why not leave well
enough alone? Why alarm anybody? Why
make anybody enthusiastically angry ? Not the
Whole Hog, then; and especially not an un-
dressed hog. Dress him; bring him in in
sections; put pleasant sprigs of parsley round
him, and then the . .eye of the fastidious grocery-
man would not be shocked, and his vote would
still be safe.” Thus, in the end, the vote was for
not a Whole Hog party, but a Frilled Ham party.
r* • » •
When .the Labor party first entered the State
Parliament most of the members had the repu-
tation of being firebrands and revolutionaries.
Their arrival followed a wave of social discontent
which travelled almost round the world. Men
had never been stirred so deeply before, in this
generation at any rate; and in three States at
least, N.S.W. among them, something very much
like Whole Hog parties were called into life. But
somehow the Labor member, who formed part of
the Whole Hog party or thereabouts of 12 or 14
years ago, soon began to undergo a change.
Taken out of his old environment of “.holy
discontent,” and no longer feeling the per-
sonal pinch which he ha.d known in the past,
the call for reforms seemed to him to become less
urgent. When he did strive—as sometimes he
did —the cumbersome forms of Parliament first
worried and then wearied him. He began to think
that it was better to coax than to push. This, of
course, led to bargaining, especially in New South
Wales; and bargaining led to demoralisation.
Ministers who owed their life to the Labor mem-
ber. naturally went up and down the country
saying what a good fellow he was, and how grossly
some people had been maligning him. All this
had its effect. The party strove to live up to its
reputation for mildness and meekness. The
grocer at the corner-store and the fat alderman
who runs the butcher’s shop already alluded to,
became its supporters. Even the bank manager
. tolerated it. And now when it is called
upon to be again the Whole Hog party that
it was in the beginning, the grocer and alderman
have to be considered. They have to go into the
scale on the other side. It is the Grocer’s vote
against the Whole Hog policy ; and the answer is
Yes-No. So the bush-worker and miner from
way-out, thorough, earnest, and uncompromising,
and the city worker who also hasn’t lost his inde-
pendence, go back to their fellows, weary and dis-
pirited. They hate snuffling and “ smooging ”;
and yet they must know that the policy framed
for them is a policy of snuffle and “ smooge.”
* * * »
“ No borrowing ” was the Whole Hog policy.
It was simple, direct, and incapable of two mean-
ings. No politician could twist it and Yes-no
upon it. It meant no borrowing, and nothing
else. Only loans that fell due might be renewed,
or existing loans might be converted ; but neither
would be borrowing, since neither would add to
the debt. Already this State owes per head of
population more than almost any other country in
the world ; it has borrowed so much, and its credit
is consequently so low, that when the other day it
asked in London for half-a-million in order to
pay bills that were due, it could only get the money
at a cost of about £4 13s. per cent. That is to say,
this State is now paying more for money than the
banks will pay for fixed deposits. Yet we may be
sure of this : Bull-Cohen will lend —lend to any-
body—so long as he believes he can get his interest
and principal. It is only when he believes the
borrower to be carrying such a load of interest
that he cannot possibly struggle under much
more, that he puts up the rate in order to cover
himself for the extra risk he takes. It is said
that there is no risk of repudiation, and that there
is no such word in our language. Bull-
Cohen knows better. If he didn’t, he wouldn’t
charge us £4 13s. per cent. When, therefore,
Cohen charges an abnormal rate, it is the notice
to stop. If, however, the State does not stop,
then Cohen will only continue his support on
conditions. Already he has said that he does not
like the security ; and if he is to go on advancing
upon it he will certainly ask for a say in the
management of the concern. Already he does
exert a passive influence. What, we are all the
time asking, will they think in England? Victoria
had to borrow money to renew a loan for which no
provision had been made. A Treasury official
was sent to London, and he reported that
prospects were black ; Cohen didn’t like the
■ecurity. Thereupon, Bent made his great “eco-
nomies” in the railways, and roared about them
Irvine and Shiels cut down the old-age pen-
sions; almost everything that the Labor party
is supposed to think kindly of was jumped upon
with all the violence that Bent and Irvine
owned. Cohen was immediately mollified. As
the Agent-General reported, “the Government’s
policy in the matter of the railway trouble and
with regard to economy generally made an ex-
cellent impression in the City ’’ —and Cohen, who
before had hesitated, now lent the money. It is
not too much to say that the price of that loan
was the cruel reduction of old-age pensions and
the equally cruel treatment of the railway service.
It is equally certain that the same sort of price
will have to be paid by every State in the future
unless the Whole Hog policy intervenes; the
price will in every case be something that
the Labor party treasures, or ought to trea-
sure. And yet it will not say “No borrow-
ing.” The corner grocer’s vote must be kept
even though it means that Cohen will
presently rule this country, and that the country
will no longer rule itself. How Cohen rules a
country which is nothing more to him than a place
for making money in, South Africa shows. But
the Labor member will risk all that to keep the
vote of the Corner Grocery.
• • * •
“ No borrowing ” does not involve stoppage of
works for the development of the country. Even
without further taxation it should be quite possible
tojpay £2,000,000 into a publio works fund and
£250,000 into a sinking fund ; for the State’s net
revenue is now pretty nearly that total sum more
than it was three years ago. By true economy—
by getting rid of useless officials ; by abolishing the
“ Government stroke ” in Government offices ; by
employing in the State’s service the best men,
even though they have to be paid high prices ; by
economising office space ; by abolishing political
bribes—these funds could be fed to the extent men-
tioned. On the works provided from such a works
fund there would be no interest burden, and conse-
quently far better prospects of success. Lower
freights and fares would thus eventually be pos-
sible. The growth of the sinking fund, if it were
accompanied by a fixed determination to borrow
no more, would so enhance the State’s credit that
the renewal loans would be available at a great
reduction, and an enormous saving in taxation
would be possible—or, better still, an enormous
increase in the fund available for public works.
What is happening in Canada is that Cohen is
actually providing the sinking fund himself ; in
other words, as the sinking fund grew, he accepted
a lower and still lower rate of interest, and thus
a saving was made which constituted a sinking fund
in itself. The Labor party could accomplish exactly
the same result for Australia, and thus do for it a
greater service than any other party ever did for
it in the past. Instead, however (with its eye on
the Corner Grocery), it decides on borrowing to
do things that will pay their way and 1 per cent,
over. That won’t alarm anybody. Also, meaning
practically nothing, it will arouse no enthusiasm.
Nobody will feel sufficiently excited by it to throw
at it either a brick or a cheer.
* * * *
Practically every work that has been carried out
for Heaven knows how long has been “ permanent
and reproductive.” The Owe’Sullivans have
E roved over and over again that things that have
een thrown on the scrap-heap years ago are still
earning interest. No Ministry ever has owned up
to carrying out with loan money unproductive
works. And still Coghlan’s figures show that
between 1898 and 1902 only 40 per cent, of the
loan money was spent on railways and tramways
&c., the other 60 per cent, going in trifles, by far
the most of which can never pay anything at all.
Still they are all “reproductive undertakings,”
and they have been carried out, too, by a Govern-
ment which has done pretty well what the Labor
party has required. All, then, that the new
determination means is that the works are going
to be 1 percent, better than they have been in the
past. The State Parliamentary Labor party need
nave no fears; that poor little 1 per cent, will not
cause any alarm in the Corner Grocery, and the
vote of the alderman who keeps the butcher s
shop is still safe. >
• • • *
So the Labor party misses its chance. Fearful
of giving offence to its “ middle-class ” patrons, it
steers a middle course. It aims at creeping along
unnoticed-v.too inconspicuous to have a bnck
thrown at it. Such tactics must fail, Ihe
people appreciate boldness and brightness, dash
and daring. Mark how the “ Thoroughs of
Queensland have won to power against enormous
odds. Mark how, on the other hand, when the
N.S.W. Labor party, the other day, proposed a
policy of compromise with regard to reduction of
members, the people despised and rejected the
miserable proposal that was neither one thing
nor the other. The “neuter” has been held
in contempt for all time, and he is held in con-
tempt now. Yet that is more or less the role
which the N.S.W. Labor party has deliberately
chosen. The position of W hole Hog party is still
waiting to be filled.
Federal Politics.
There is a national interest in the state of Mr.
Kingston’s health just now. A hale Kingston
would do much to clear a doubtful political
situation, and to clear it in the most satisfactory
way by a step forward in Federalism and Radical-
ism. But, so far, there is no definite promise of
that. Speaking after he resigned from the Barton
Cabinet, Mr. Kingston expressed a doubt as to
whether, if the call were made to him, he could
summon up enough health to take the lead in a
great fight for the Progressive cause in politics.
Since then he has had leisure to re-
cuperate. But to a man of his ardent,
nay volcanic, temperament, leisure does not neces-
sarily mean rest; during the Federal elections,
though he had no personal opponent in his con-
stituency, Kingston took up a great burden of
work on behalf of the Radical cause. Now, in
Maoriland, he is making some effort to restore his
shattered health. If that effort succeeds the
political future is fairly clear; if it does not, the
loss to Australia will be hard to calculate.
• • • •
The strategic point around which a great poli-
tical battle is now progressing—a battle of which
there are practically no outward signs, but which
is none the less stern and real —is the Industrial
Arbitration Bill. The Deakin Cabinet, as an
entity, maintains the iRViNE-dictated attitude into
which Premier Barton was entrapped last session,
refusing to apply the benefits of the proposed Act
to any employees of a State Government, or a
public body, or to seamen of deep-water ships.
That would confine the benefits of the Act to a
very small class indeed. Constitutionally it can
only have jurisdiction over disputes affecting
more than one State; limit its scope further to
exclude seamen, publio servants, railway, muni-
cipal and public trust employees, and only a shred
of benefit would remain. This limitation was
suggested originally by Messrs. Irvine and
Bent ; it was accepted by the then Federal
Government in a moment of folly, persuaded
that Victoria was solidly with Irvine in a Tory
re-action. When Mr. Deakin was called upon to
re-construct the Cabinet it was open to him to
retract from a position which was politically mis-
taken, and of which, if all accounts be true, he
was not conscientiously enamored. But the
shadow of Irvine frightened him and, to a greater
extent still, his colleague, Mr. Turner. The
result was the Ballarat manifesto against a
complete Arbitration Bill. It would not
do any serious violence to political traditions
as they are in Australia if Mr. Deakin
were now to repudiate that declaration.
Mr. Reid, for instance, oould repudiate a
dozen such statements before breakfast any
morning. Mr. Deakin, who is of finer grain,
refuses to take that course, and, Quixotically faith-
ful to his folly, is resolved to risk the existence of
his Cabinet oil that issue.
• • * *
The incident can, in all human probability,
have but one end—the defeat of Mr. Deakin.
Possibly, with Mr. Reid’s help, he may carry his
mangled Arbitration Bill through the House of
Reps, by a narrow majority ; even that -much is,
to the utmost degree, improbable. Certainly
disaster would await the IRViNE-dictated Bill in
the Senate. There Federalism and Radicalism
hold undisputed sway. The Bill returned
to the House of Reps, in a Liberal form
would, presumably, be dropped; and then Mr.
Deakin Would drop too. There are two reasons
why the Labor party, and its “flying buttresses ”
—the men who support the party without being
inside it—are so keenly anxious for a radical
Arbitration Act. One is the desire for industrial
peace, the hope of averting in the future such
unhappy incidents as the recent Victorian railway
strike ; the other is an ambition for an advance-
ment of the Federal spirit. The passing of a
thorough Federal Arbitration Act would range
the Cabbage Tr.ee mob and the Johnaynes coterie
and the Tory anti-Federalists all over the conti-
nent into one camp—such a camp as the Scots
held at Dunbar when Oliver Cromwell moved
on to their destruction, sword in hand and
Psalm on lips. It would provoke an outbreak
of anti-Federalism, but an outbreak under such
conditions that the forces of peace and order
and reason and democracy would be on the side
of the Federation. A thorough Arbitration Act
would commit the Federation to a contest with
the provincialists; but it would at the same time
commit the democracy to the Federal principle,
and the issue of the struggle would be for no
moment uncertain. From the contest the Federa-
tion would come stronger and dearer in the
hearts of the masses of the people, who have the
power to give the ultimate verdict in Australian
politics.
• • • •
Mr. Deakin professes to believe that he has a
chance of holding office whilst maintaining
the Irvine attitude on the Arbitration Bill, and
he argues almost angrily with himself on the
point, but still in his heart he cannot but be con-
vinced of the almost certain ruin to which his
Cabinet moves. Others have no doubt about the
matter at all. Mr. Lyne, if all accounts are true,
takes the Labor party attitude on the Bill, and
will retire from the Ministry rather than follow
Mr. Deakin in the matter ; and he would be fol-
lowed possibly by one, or even two, other mem-
bers of the Cabinet. This is so generally reported
that it is said that Mr. Bruce Smith is already
suggesting that now has the time come for Mr.
Deakin to call two or three genuine statesmen from
the Opposition side—say himself and Mr. Reid—
into the Cabinet and save the country from
Labor domination. Mr. Reid is in the painful
position of needing an even more intricate atti-
tude than that of Yes-No to make him safe.
He wants office. He recognises that there must
be a re-distribution of the prizes, and yet is
absolutely puzzled to know on what side he
should range himself to make a call for him
certain. On the whole, so far as the country is
concerned, if Mr. Deakin is determined to side
with the Tories, and if Mr. Turner has come
to the same bad conclusion, it would be well
for Mr. Reid to go into the same boat,
and go down with it. The worst that could
happen would be that the Labor party, for want of a
better combination, should decide to side with
Reid for, apart from the fiscal issue—which is for
this Parliament a dead one—Mr. Reid would
command no following. He bring to a
coalition very little more than his Yes no. Pre-
suming Mr. Kingston comes back to Parliament
with renewed health, the situation would soon
simplify itself. The Progressives would naturally
range by his side, the Conservatives on the other
side ; and the Progressives would have a working
majority, for, the tariff issue abandoned for the
present, several of the so-called Freetraders would
range themselves on the Radical side. If Mr.
Kingston is not able to take the lead the_ position
is more complicated. What is needed is a man
with whom the Labor party will be willing to
share power, but who will be able to attract in
addition a party of Progressives, independent of
that party. Further, if the Labor party takes
a share of office, it will only do so on the condi-
tion that a forward policy is embodied in the
Government programme: it will not be content
to merely hold office and mark time. The
position is one full of difficulty if Mr. Kingston
is not available as a solution. One way out, it
has been suggested by some of Mr. Deakin’s
friends, is that he should, if he finds it impossible
to hold office himself, advise that the Governor
send to Mr. Watson direct, and thus
throw the whole responsibility of the situation
on the Labor party : and there could be worse
developments than that.
A State Newspaper.
A State neiwspaper—with a firm accent on the
“news ” —is coming within the range of practical
politics. The Bulletin would not be surprised
to find it figuring very shortly in the programme
of the progressive party. For the development
of political and industrial life is bringing about
an issue between democracy and the newspapers
—a position in which democracy can only survive
by a radical change in regard to the system of
news distribution. This is stated as a cold
fact, not as a variation of the average poli-
tician’s cant about the “tyranny” of the
newspapers which do not agree with him (and
which are “blessed instruments of progress and
enlightenment” when they are with him): nor as
an angry protest against some conspicuous bit of
newspaper misrepresentation. Given (1) present
newspaper organisation and (2) the present neces-
sity of news to the citizen, and the State must take
upon itself the. responsibility of supplying news
without taint, or else surrender the government
of the country into the hands of mercenary news-
paper proprietaries. That is the thesis—startling
enough: but strictly provable.
• * * *
The genesis of the newspaper and the present
organisation of the newspaper must be taken into
account to get a correct view of the position.
Originally there were two forms of journals—the
news letter which was a record of gossip collected
in the town and distributed in the country,
and the pamphlet, which was an argument 0&
some political subject. About the right to pub-
lish and circulate pamphlets arose the great
struggle for the “liberty of the press” (and the
fruits of that historic fight for human liberty no
one would lightly propose to sacrifice). With the
growth of civilisation the two forms of journal
began to merge into one and to become the
modern newspaper, partly made up of news,
partly of comment. At first the honorable tradi-
tion was, that the news should be, as far as
was humanly possible, correct, whatever the
bias of the comment. The next stage of
development was the advertisement. Newspaper
change marched then with rapid feet towards
the modern daily paper, purporting to be mainly
a newspaper, but giving with the news much
comment, and depending absolutely for its exist-
ence on the advertising support it gets The final
step is the newspaper trust —the combination of
the great daily newspapers in a particular capital
or country, at first for the purposes of economy in
co-operating to secure certain classes of news,
later so as to “stand together ” for mutual pro-
tection or mutual aggression.
* » * *
The position in Australia now is that the
daily newspapers are all combined, more or
less closely, for certain trading purposes, and
are always ready to combine for political
purposes. In N.S.W., for example, the two
morning journals are in sympathy on most
points, and, combining their forces, they are able
to almost absolutely dominate politics. If they
did this by the logic of their arguments the
position would be such that no exception could
reasonably be taken. But that is not so. They
work to a common end by suppressing some facts,
by putting other facts in a misleading perspective,
by coloring other statements of supposed fact with
bias, and sometimes by absolute mis-statement.
They combine, too, against any opposition so
effectively that it is almost impossible for any
private person to challenge their monopoly.
When another morning paper was mooted a little
while ago, the existing dailies agreed to boycott
all news-agents who dared to handle the new
publication.
* * * *
Buttressed as it is, the existing monopoly is
practically unchallengeable by private effort, and
as news is just as much a necessity to the normal
civilised man as bread and meat, there is no
possible remedy in refraining from buying the
daily newspaper. Buy it people must; and the
public mind is thus just as surely contaminated by
whatever poison the newspaper proprietaries care
to instil into their wares as if the public water-
supply was polluted. A weekly newspaper or a
magazine is in a different position. It is not so
much a necessity as a luxury. People can buy it
or do without it, as they choose, and, whatever
lies or truths it cares to mix up with its comments,
it never becomes such an evil as to call for drastic
remedy. But the daily news the citizens must
have, and, as existing suppliers refuse to give it,
except in such a garbled and colored form as suits
their ends, the State must one day step in and
fill the want.
• * • •
A State newspaper at first thought seems im-
possible. But it is quite feasible. It should be
put at the outset under the charge of an experi-
enced journalist, with the power and surety of
position of a Supreme Court Judge. He should
be given a commission to produce a bright and
literary newspaper absolutely without political
comment. He would print Parliamentary and
law reports—in full or abridged according to their
interest—cabled and telegraphic news, police
items, stories, sketches, verses, literary reviews
and all the other features of a daily news-
paper served up according to his discretion,


, leaders ”- or comments on politics
• ' i- con fiuing all Government adver-
an ■ Rnnouncements to the State organ
eie would be secured for it at once a
rge revenue and a certain forced circula-
mn. Additional subscribers it would have to win
on its merits. “ Political influence ”in regard to
s conduct would be strictly tabooed, and would
De guarded against by giving the editor the status
o a puisne judge. There would be no “ letters
tiom members of Parliament,” and no arguments
tor or against any political proposal. The paper
would deal in facts, and facts alone—except in
purely literary matters, when opinions and views
would be in order. Those who wanted political
fancied* 3 su °h other newspapers as they
A State newspaper would be nob at all
an impossible nor even a very difficult under-
taking. As a speculation it would, if properly
conducted, at least pay expenses. As an aid to
the upgrowth of an educated and unfettered
citizenship, it would be worth to the State very
many thousands of pounds a year. The nataral
intelligence of the people would gradually bring
them to seek in a publication, the truth of which
was guaranteed, the news of the day. What
comment they cared for they could seek in private
organs. The power of those private newspapers to
mislead the people would then be gone, for there
would always be a standard by which to gauge
their statements and a means to expose their sup-
pressions. There would be no interference with
the liberty of the press; private persons could
still print what they liked within the four corners
of the law ; the State would simply take the
liberty of printing the cold truth once a day, just
as it would, conceivably, undertake to provide
pure milk twice a day, if it found that all dairymen
were banded together to foist typhoid bacilli on
their customers with the milk.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Perplexed Briton.
** Mr. Theodore V. S. Augier, steamship owner,
of London,” is another traveller who has been
telling Australia what a stupid little person it is:
Your “White Australia” policy is a perplexity to
Britons. It seems so petty, so unnecessary, and so selfish
that they cannot understand it. Australia has room for
all classes of people, and Nature intended her to sustain
all races. The man has got hold of the wrong idea who
thinks that there is a certain amount of work to be done,
and that if black and yellow races come here they will be
employed at the expense of the white man.
How Mr. Augier came to be such a cocksure
authority on the secrets and purposes of Nature
he doesn’t explain. He tells that he “ has just
completed a tour of the United States,” and
possibly he picked up the information there —
say, at a negro lynching in the South. What
is more to the point, though, is that the
Briton should be helped out of his perplexity.
The trouble really is that he is looking up the
wrong tree. He thinks (if he is as foolish as Mr.
Augier says he is) that the only question at issue
is one of work and. wages—that the white man
fears for his job. Perhaps he does; he knows that
the colored workman is ignorant and un-organised,
and he knows, too, that there are white em-
ployers who will be prepared to fill their own
p ockets by trading on that ignorance and weakness.
But that is not the large matter. Not the
loss of a job, but loss of racial purity, is at the
bottom of the demand for a White Australia.
So far, the Australian is clean white; and he is
proud and jealous of it, and of his European
ancestry. Cannot the perplexed Briton under-
stand that—cannot he understand pride of race ?
“So petty, so unnecessary,” the perplexed Briton
says. “So petty” to struggle against degenera-
tion into a decadent race of half-breeds ! “So
unnecessary ” to strive to cultivate a race which
shall have pride of birth ! If this is “ petty ” and
“ unnecessary,” will the perplexed Briton tell us
what is patriotism ?
- The-Hard Work of Reform.
The difficulties which would face a Whole Hog
Cabinet in the work of reform are faintly indi-
cated by the howl of indignation which has
greeted the sensible action of the See Govern-
ment in abolishing the South Head Road Trust
(Sydney). This Trust had control of various
roads which run from Sydney to the Eastern
suburbs ; it was formed originally when the popu-
lation of those suburbs was thin and scattered,
and its work was to keep the main roads
in order, the State footing the bill. This
arrangement has since continued, whilst at Pad-
dington, Bondi, Waverley, Woollahra, Rose Bay
and Watson’s Bay, flourishing and thickly popu-
lated suburbs have grown up, and the area served
by the Trust has come to shelter the greater por-
tion of the rich folk of the metropolis. So John
See says that the district can now keep its own
roads in order and refuses to subsidise it with
£4OOO or £5OOO a year of State money. The
suburbs affected—which are all strongholds of the
Deform Party and are frantically anxious for the
Treasurer to be economical at the expense of the
civil servant and the State road laborer and the
old age pensioner—are, in consequence of this
action, purple with indignation, and that enthusias-
tic Deform paper, the Daily Telegraph, howls in
the van of their protest against a stoppage of
theirplunder. The incident, weliavesaid, indicates
the difficulties which stand in the way of Whole
Hog Reform. It also, however, indicates the
opportunities lying at the hand of a party which
went all the way in the path of honesty; for then
all over the country would arise the squeals of
people robbed of their chance to spoil the Trea-
sury, and all over the country would be advertised
the fact that a new era had dawned and that there
was a somewhat different Government in power.
Such an advertisement would rouse the great
body of the people to come forward in support of
true economy and reform. The proportion of the
voters who benefit by the system of jobs, swindles,
steals and concessions is proportionately small.
All that is needed is to drive them into one camp,
and encourage them and their newspapers to
make as much noise then as possible. Then their
destruction would be easy.
♦
Great Sydney and the Small Alderman.
The Greater Sydney movement, it was made plain
last week, can expect no real help from Sydney
City Council. Alderman Fitzgerald —who is
one of the few aldermen with notions above the
kerbing and guttering level—moved to memorial-
ise the Premier to create, by Act of Parliament,
a citizens’ convention to draft a constitution for
a Greater Sydney. That is the simple and direct
way to the object in view—that or an Act of
Parliament embodying a constitution without the
preliminary of acitizens’convention. Theone thing
necessary is to get the matter out of the hands of
the aldermen—the city aldermen who are in only a
few cases threatened with civic intelligence and the
suburban aldermen who are, as a rule, absolutely
hopeless Bumbles. But Mr. Fitzgerald’s motion
was met by an amendment from Alderman
Meagher— appropriately seconded by Alderman
Griefin —“to open up communications” with all
councils in the metropolitan area on the subject.
That means to invite the aldermen, the wild herds
of suburban aldermen, to talk on the subject.
And that means no hope of progress. What is
wanted—to put the case in alderman language—is
“yacker, not yabber.” The Sydney Council by
its resolution opens the way to endless discussion
but to no decision.
»
How the Mining- Industry is Hampered.
The Sydney newspapers are suffering from one of
their periodical spasms of interest in the mining
industry. A dozen or more correspondents have
written to say, in the usual vague fashion, that
mining is a large part of the backbone of the
State, and that something more ought to be done
to “encourage it.” They make also the usual
vague remarks concerning unsatisfactory legisla-
tion, and draw dazzling pictures of the prosperity
that would sweep over the State if something or
other were done—they don’t say exactly what.
The nearest they ever get is a suggestion that
mining rents should be reduced and the labor
conditions abolished. Several of them draw
attention to the difference with which the
State treats the pastoral and the mining
industries. Pastoral country, they remark, can
be had for Id. per acre per annum; but if the
same land is required for mining, a man has to pay
from ss. to £1 an acre for it. This is plainly a
monstrous anomaly, they say. But it is nothing
of the sort. Given fair treatment, the land is in
no way depreciated in value by pastoral occupa-
tion; in fact, oftener it is improved. The miner,
on the other hand, makes his money by robbing
the ground. A man might rent a house for .£lOO
a year; but if he had the right to carry off the
place, the landlord would probably want some-
thing more, and that is the position in which the
mining industry stands. The State is the land-
lord ; and in asking the man who has the right to
carry away its property more than it asks him
who merely has the right to use the pro-
perty, it is doing nothing unreasonable what-
ever. In fact, the State, as landlord, behaves
with the utmost generosity, not to say prodi-
gality, ,to the mining man. Except in rare
cases it asks nothing in the way of tribute or
percentage ; and what private landlord would
let his Broken Hill Proprietaries on such
terms as that? The State is suffering to a great
extent because it handles its affairs so differently
from the way in which a private concern would
handle them; and the people who say that the
State can’t be trusted with business concerns are
also the very people who are loudest in demanding
that the State shall act in this grossly unbusiness-
like way with regard to its landed estate. The
other point upon which a change is asked for
is with regard to labor conditions and tenure.
“The mining industry is hampered above all
things by the labor conditions,” the S.M. Herald
echoes. “The law requires so many men to be
employed that people cannot afford to engage in
mining. It kills the goose which lays,"’ etc.
Well, there is plenty of mining land in N.S.W.
upon which no such conditions press—upon which,
in fact, there are no conditions at all. These are
private lands, acquired by ordinary grant or
m.c.p., and the goose isn’t interfered with in the
slightest. Yet the wretched bird might as well
be dead for all the laying she does. On the very
day when the Herald was describing how the
mining industry would flourish if there were no
labor conditions, and how many thousands of men
would be employed by mine-owners if only mine-
owners didn’t have to employ anybody, a deputa-
tion waited upon the Minister for Mines (one,
merely, of scores of similar deputations which
have filed in at the same office) with a local peti- :
tion with regard to some lands naar Orange:
The lands are owned by the Scottish Australian Gold-
mining Company of Sydney, Limited, and are held by
virtue of a Crown grant-without reservation of minerals.
The petitioners state that there are deposits of gold and
copper ore and other minerals on this land, and that the
lands were at one time profitably mined by the company,
but for the past 20 years have been lying idle. - Several
applications have been made for mining licenses on the
lands, but these were refused on the ground that-the
lands were held by the company. If these lands were
available for mining, leases would be eagerly sought for,
and employment provided for upwards of 500 persons.
What the people who want to abolish labor con-
ditions really seek is, in effect, to put all such
lands in the position of these near Orange ; and
they say they want it “for the encouragement of
mining!” The only sort of “mining” that it
would encourage is the sort that is carried on in
Pitt and Collins Streets. How much the Pitt
and Collins Streets miners add to the wealth of
the country Coghlan, curiously enough, omits to
say.
~4
Japan’s Industrial Position
The war-cloud in the Far North darkens again.
The fact that Japan, after trying every foreign
market, has raised an internal loan is the strongest
of all hints that she contemplates fight. The
“ Eldei-s ” of the nation have, so far, had a re-
straining influence on the people’s Jingoism, but
their power of restraint seems to be now ex-
hausted, and Japan prepares to rush headlong into
war with a nation which, alone among European
Powers, has so far never lost a serious campaign,
and never had to yield an acre of territory.
There can be but one conclusion to such.
a struggle if it is confined to the ori-
ginal combatants. No matter how high the
spirit of the Japanese; no matter how fine their
organisation, they must succumb in the end from
sheer lack of material resources. There is no
money behind Japan, and there are no acres
out of which money can be taxed. The Russian
Government may be poor, even bankrupt, but the
country has always the staff of an immense
stretch of fertile land pouring out its riches with
the recurring seasons. Japan’s small territory is
already taxed to the utmost to give its population
a bare subsistence. With a chance to get to close
quarters with its foe, Japan might have a chance,
presuming military success, to keep a war going
with- loot, adopting the Napoleonic method of
making a campaign pay for itself. But with the
seat of war in Manchuria that would not be
Sossible. Supposing the most favorable result to
apan’s miltary operations, it does not seem
possible for it to maintain a campaign for any
length of time. Stephen England, in the Daily
Mail, gave recently a picture (the fruit of careful
study) of the social life of Japan, which is a
startling variant from the superficial impressions
of the tourist, and shows how hopeless would be
that country’s position in a long-drawn-out war :
In Tokio not fewer than 200,000 people seldom, if ever,
know of a certainty where the necessities of the next day
will come from, and throughout the land the great
majority are too poor to eat rice. The high-grade rice
grown in the islands is exported almost to the last sack,
and inferior rice imported for those who can afford it. I
have spent days and nights in company with a brilliant
Japanese sociologist, who, like scores of his fellow-
students of men and things, believes that Japan has left
its good days of general happiness and general comfort
for ever behind, and is entering upon a sordid and merci-
less age of industrialism, in which its people are not fitted
by temperament to compete. He is crying out a warning
to Japan that her seat at the council-table of the Powers
-is being paid for in the blood of her citizens, not ex-
pended as they would pour it forth cheerfully in war, but
in factory and on farm, in shop and in office. “Think
for a moment,” he cried last week as we looked at a
Japanese battleship in the offing, “ what a multitude of
our tiny rice fields it takes to support such a monster,
and then remember that our people can’t afford to eat
rice ! ”.
Suppose a Japanese worker of the casual class has had.
a good day and returns to his home with, say, sixpence.
He will expend this in farthing purchases of miso, a kind
of soup stock, oil, fuel, tobacco, and perhaps a little fish,
which, if he feels reckless, he will eat raw with horse-
radish. He buys in driblets, and like the poor in every
city of the world, pays enormous prices. Had he re-
turned empty-handed he would have hurried to the
pawnbroker, always near at hand, and raised a few
farthings on his precious brass pipe, his hibachi, or his
few poor garments not in actual use. With the money
he would have purchased fish entrails or the offal from
horses used for food, and perhaps a handful of scraps
from a garbage barrel. With these he would have feasted
with his family, and with them prayed that Providence
would give him a better day to-morrow, so that he might
reclaim his goods. With the fearful piercing frost of a
Japanese winter, some covering must be had. Now
appears another plunderer of the poor in the guise of the
capitalist who rents quilts by the night. He charges
from one farthing for a shred of dirty, patched old rag, to
a penny or even twopence for a foul but heavy covering.
Rent must be paid in advance, and before the family go
to sleep the collector comes and gets either the money or
the quilt. Few of the inhabitants of Shitaya ever get
enough money ahead to buy bed-clothing, and the
ghastly tragedy of renting is re-enacted again and again
for winter after winter. Nothing that was ever edible
can become too bad for the very poor to use. From this
and similar quarters the scavengers go forth daily
searching for food, and they rake the city as with a
comb. Back they come at night laden with bad rice, de-
cayed fish and meat, scraps from slop barrels, broken food
from restaurants, and all manner of queer odds and ends.
Poverty has its ultimate expression here—its last word.
That is poverty such as no European “sub-
merged” can even imagine; and it is poverty
from which practically nothing can be drawn in
taxes. Where the casual laborer thinks himself
lucky to get sixpence a day, and a shilling a day
is a good wage, there is no reserve for the nation
to draw upon. And the poverty of the proletariat
in Japan is not due to the existence of a great class
of wealthy rich-; the rich in that country are very
few in number and very moderate in wealth. The
position is that the country is an intrinsically poor
one. In its ancient state, when it did not have to
pour out-millions to maintain a bloated, militarism,
the population was well enough off; a high standard
of aestheticism and a gentle social nature made
poverty endurable. But ambition has changed
poverty to destitution. The alternatives are to go
back on the path of militarism or to replenish the
national Treasury by foreign conquest. It is
because the second alternative seems to be the
better to the Japanese Jingoes that the nation is
such a menace to the future of Australia.
_——4
The existence of great dissatisfaction among
Sydney tram employees, owing to the suspension
of the annual increments, is being utilised by the
Sydney daily press for several bad purposes. That
the tram men have grievances is true ; but the fact
that they have stated a case for the Arbitration
Court is a sign that they have no idea of breaking
the law to seek redress. But the papers have set
to work to bring about a mild panic in Suburbia
by conveying the impression that a tram strike
was more than likely. That served to alarm
Suburbia as to the evil of labor organisations, and
also,- incidentally, to impress a moral against the
Arbitration Act. As a matter of fact, no strike
was ever contemplated by the Union. The tram
men say that, if anyone talked strike, it was
probably some -non-unionist who would have
talked the blowing up of Government House and
the kidnapping of the Commissioners if desired.
But the daily newspapers desired to discredit
Unionism generally. A strike would make the
Tram Employees’ Union unpopular among the
people who depend upon the system to get to and
from the city daily, and the next best thing to an
actual strike would be the dread of one ; therefore
the creation of a scare. The papers also wished
to bring home to the people of Sydney the fabt
that the existence of the Industrial Arbitration
Court could not necessarily prevent (though
it could soon . stop) a strike ; of the Tram
men, and thereby heap more contempt on
the Court. (In this connection it mignt be
pointed out that the existence of the police-court,
the Criminal Court, and Robert Howard do not,
in N.S.W., prevent always the perpetration of
murder.) There is some reason for a suspicion
that the D.T., at least, wanted the men to strike.
.It held out the inducement to them that by
holding up the trams they could force the Court to
consider their grievances quickly instead of wait-
ing ten or twelve months. It dragged this bait
before . the exasperated employees while skilfully
avoiding any reassurance to the public that
the prompt interference of the Court would
quickly end the strike and public inconvenience.
It further complained bitterly about the men
appealing to the Government for redress after
invoking the Arbitration Court. Which was
most ridiculous. The Government is their em-
ployer, and the fact that a man has sued his boss’s
manager for ss. due is no reason why he should
not try to effect a friendly settlement out of court,
especially when the Court won’t hear the case, for
12 months. The Bulletin is confident that the
tramway employees will avoid .the fatal mistake
o,f being tempted by the daily papers into a strike.
That would help the enemies of labor, but it
would not help the men.
4
“W.T.G.” takes one view of a matter which is
open to much argument: —
In view of the remarkable capacity often manifested
by the Sydney daily newspapers for trimming, clipping,
distorting, and otherwise manipulating the reports of
proceedings at political conferences, it is by no means
surprising that at the annual conference of the Political
Labor League it was decided to exclude the press, an
exception being made in favor of the paper which is under
the direct control and censorship of the Labor party. It
is quite easy to understand the objection to the presence
of reporters from the daily papers. There are two
methods of misleading the general public which may be
adopted by the press. One method is to manufacture
plain, unvarnished lies and publish sensational reports of
occurrences which haven’t happened ; the other is the
more simple and much safer plan of suppressing material
facts. In courts of law, the suppression of the truth by
witnesses is held to be equally villainous with the
utterance of false evidence, and it has even been
held by some jurists that the suppression of material
truth is a more rascally form of lying than plain
invention. That is why the oath in law courts is made so
comprehensive, and a witness is sworn to “ speak the
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.” The
newspapers find the suppression of the truth much safer
than the manufacture of lies, and just as effective in
achieving misrepresentation. The careful and judicious
elimination of material matter from a report is just as
useful for party purposes as the manufacture of a
straight-out lie. The Political Labor League knows
the capacity of Sydney journals in both the posi-
tive and negative methods of misrepresentation, and
therefore it is not difficult to understand the
exclusion of all press representatives except those of the
League’s own organ. Still it was a mistake. There are
four daily papers in Sydney, and, supposing none of them
wished to tell the truth, the chances are they would not
all hit upon the same kind of lie. Twenty men may
follow one another into a witness box, and each tell the
same tale and stick to it if they are telling the truth;
but if they are not telling the truth, no matter how they
may agree as to the kind of lie to be told, it will almost
certainly happen that incompatible allegations will be
made. The witness of truth has but one story to'tell;
the witness who desires to deceive has an unlimited
number of lies to choose from, and the consequence is
that one liar will very often tell a tale that is utterly at
variance with that told by the other liar. It would have
shown more wisdom if the Political Labor League had
admitted as many press representatives as were pleased
to attend its conference, the larger the number the better;
even if they were all determined to suppress material
truths, the probability is they would not all suppress the
same truths, and would thus convict each other of mis-
representation. The exclusion of the press was bad
tactics.
There was an obscure item in the country news
in some of the papers the other day that was
worth noting down: Tarella, a station in the
droughtiest part of the Far West (N.S. W.),
had men out cutting “meadow hay.” Last year
and the year before, this, station, like its neigh-
bors, struggled without much success to keep its
flocks alive by cutting scrub. Then bleaching
bones were the most conspicuous feature of, the
landscape; this season the bones ar-e hidden by
waving seas of grass, 50 times more than enough
for current requirements of the stock. Such
seasons there have been before; yet practically
no attempt has been made to conserve even a little
of the wasting fodder, and when the attempt is
made even now, after the hard experiences of the
past years which ought to have taught wisdopi, it
is so much of a curiosity that it is worth talking
about. Acres have been written about irrigation
as an insurance against dry seasons; but in by far
the most of these inlands irrigation is utterly out
of the question, while the conservation of surplus
fodder is not out of the question anywhere.
♦ .t
About a Land Boilers’ Inspection Act an expert
writes: — - -
I knew a foundry boiler (ordinary'upright, supposed to
supply 7h.p. engine) working an emery wheel for dry-
grinding ironwork, a 32in. lathe, a drilling machine, a
facing sand mill, a planing machine, and a fan for forge
blast, all at the one time, with the steam indicator fluc-
tuating between 100 and llOlbs. The feed wat6n was sup-
plied by a plunger pump actuated by eccentric gearing
on the fly wheel shaft, and a high speed of engine conse-
quently gave a very poor delivery. Being engaged on
other work two hours before the usual starting time, I had
to exercise my talents in getting steam up, and some days
frequently found water gauge dead.,empty, even after
removing bottom plug and thrusting wire through to
remove any possible obstacle. What a mercy that
boiler had no damper plate to keep steam up. all
night! Have known boilers working every day left
uncleaned for two years: hence great danger of burnt
plates through sediment supplanting water spaee. . Did
you ever see a safety-valve weighted to blow off at 60 not
passing any steam when indicator stood at 95 ? Trouble ?
Nothing much—only the connection damaged. Did you
ever see dirty, scaly water priming in an uncertain man-
ner in the gauge-glass, rendering ft impossible to deter-
mine the water level? The boiler should have been blown
off last Christmas, only there was a special job on. A
good Boiler Act would stipulate for a regular blowing
off and cleaning, say every three months. Fusible plugs
should be cleaned on fire and water side regularly, and
fusible metal renewed every year. Would like to see all
cocks asbestos' packed or oiled regularly, and steam,
feeder, and safety valves compulsorily overhauled once a
year, and let the person who makes or supervises such
examination be held directly responsible.
♦
“It would be almost impossible,” says Melb.
Age, “ to imagine a more lame and impotent con-
clusion to the Boer war than the substitution of
Chinese for European labor on the Rand . . .
merely in order that a ring of wealthy mine-
owners should be enabled to amass further wealth.”
It is good to see the Age connecting the war and
the mineowners’ plot like this. But, then, having
done that much, the Age ought to go into sack-
cloth and ashes. Having shared in the conduct of
the war, it must also share in the responsibility
for the “conclusion to the war.” It may plead
that it “ didn’t know it was loaded ” —that it
hadn’t any idea that the thing would end like
this; Perhaps not; but the responsibility is still
there all the same. And, anyhow, if the plea of
ignorance may be more or less accepted once,
it can’t be accepted twice. A man who shoots
somebody with a didn’t-know-it-was-loaded gun
may be forgiven, even though he be despised as a
The British Guarantee.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Belgium, Japan, Persia, Luxembourg, Turkey,
Greece, the lonian Islands, Portugal and Scandinavia
are all guaranteed assistance by Britain in certain con-
tingencies.”—News Item.
If Belgium’s little frontier should be broken by
the foe,
If Chusan’s chaste integrity be threatened by a
blow,
If Spain should want to wash by force the squalid
Portugee—
They all can claim protection in the British
Guarantee.
She gives a hand, our Motherland, to guard the
ways of Greece,
O’er half the earth she’s sworn to fight to keep the
gates of Peace;
The Turk she dubs “Unspeakable,” but Abdul
kens with glee
He rests beneath the shadow of the Britislr
Guarantee.
She vow 3 the Isles lonian from foreign brute to
guard;
The curious Asian Ottoman finds shelter in her
yard;
She’s booked, in set contingency, to help the
J apanee—
O! happy universe that sleeps beneath the
Guarantee.
The Kaiser hath her written bond about his
Saxonee,
And Persia brags--“ The British dame hath
spread her gamp for me ! ”
While fifty thousand cannibals who riot nakedlee.
Dish up the juicy mission-man beneath the
Guarantee!
The contract covers Luxembourg and Sweden
• and Lahore;
It vows to keep old Norroway as free as British
Nore.
Ihe -monkey-god of Hindustan, he hugs the
Bengalee
And makes-a mock of parson-men—beneath the
Guarantee !
And half the cant of alb the earth, and half the
bitter need,
And more than half the grinding curse that comes
o’ crooked greed,
With a Curious, quaint commingling of the servile
and the free,
Make a strange unholy jumble T.eath the British
Guarantee I
ĥ
P.L.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. „ .. „ / ,
SURPLUS ••
INCREASE IN SURPLUS .. .. , ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by
*265,597.775
£19,915,124
*73,855,783
• £4,889,175
*15,418,151
£620,434
£6,565,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M‘MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C, CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor
8. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F*S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland
WATSON’S WHISKY
Reach's Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Highfield Hotel
TASMANIA’S
LEADINQ
HOTEL
w
Cuisine, Accommodation, Perfect.
Careless fool; but he can’t go on killing people on
that plea, and he rarely wants to. Australia is
now in the position of the careless fool; it has
tnade its mistake, and has to put up with the
Consequences. A-great thing is gained if it sees
its mistake. It ought to know now that the cry
of patriotism may be spurious, and that the call
Of “My country, right or wrong” may simply
hide a crime. So S’Africa gets the Chinese and
Australia gets the wisdom and the warning.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
fdfcATRR Royal “ Belle of New York."
Her Majesty’s.......... “The Eternal City.”
Lyceum , “ The 10.80 Down Express.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “ Brown’s In Town."
Steynb Court, Manly.. Shooting the Chutes, &c.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s. ....... A Country Girl.’’
Theatre Royal. “In London Town."
Bijou “Little Red Riding Hood.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
♦
“ Brown’s in Town” is the same sort of
bright, frivolous, inconsequential, irresponsible
person as “Mama’s New. Husband,” whom
Stephenson’s American Musical Comedy Co. in-
troduced to Australia at Sydney Palace over a
month ago. At least, if there were any Brown to
be in town, that is the sort of Brown he would
be; but, as a matter of fact, there isn’t any
Brown. A youngster of 24 or so, principal come-
dian Stine’s only boy, has got married against
Stine’s wish, and under the name of Brown has
taken the girl to a Long Island farm-house. Here,
of course, everybody turns up, just a 3 though it
were the hub of the world ; and Stine’s son, to hide
his matrimony, starts lying; and, never having
been in politics, he makes a mess of it. Some-
times he is Brown and sometimes he isn’t; some-
times he isn’t married, and sometimes he is ; some-
times (as there has to be a Brown, because it is
Brown’s house) one obliging friend is Brawn, and
sometimes another; and so the same people get
married to two or three different people, and once
or twice to two or three at the same time, which
leads to scandal. If you think about it, it is shock-
ing nonsense; if you don’t, it is light and bright
and amusing, brisk and bustling all the time, and,
like most American stage-work, clean and whole-
some. As in the first piece the co. played,
the dancing is the best feature of all;
besides the Bicknells, who this time take
a more serious part in the comedy, Mr. Douglas
and Miss Ford show strikingly artistic work in this
line, and for a father of his tonnage Mr. Stine
ends also with a remarkably nimble foot. But
Mr. Stine’s most successful work is, in conjunction
with Miss Evans, a caricature of melodrama—
a travesty packed tight with humor. Others
worth a line for the entertainment they give include
Mr. Bates, who is Brown so far as there is any ;
Miss Marshall, the Mary Ann of the household, of
whose respectability she has grave doubts; and
Mr. Hunt, who sings a sentimental song or two —
almost the only serious things in the whole merry
performance.
** * *
That “ The Belle of New York ” has won
the popularity which its bright original humor
and music deserve was shown on Saturday night
at the Royal, Sydney, when, on revival after a
very short lapse of time, the opera attracted a
crowded audience. Every feature of the piece
was greeted . cordially—the lady with whom
marrying was a hobby, and who at the cost of 10
trips to the altar, had got a knowledge of the
etiquette of the business ; the other lady who
kicked so high that she nearly dislocated her'
digestion; Fifi Fricot, so apt to learn the
lessons of love, so anxious to be taught
how to kiss, squeeze, fondle, and sit
on the “ sympathetic knees ” of the other sex.
Familiarity has taught not contempt but liking
for these bright, phrase-making characters, which
is matched by the appreciation of Ichabod Bron-
son, Blinky Bill (with his faithful Mamie),
Snifkins, Mug, the Polite Lunatic, and other
humorous males. So crowded is “The Belle of
New York ” with bright humor and American
wit, so well treated in the matter of music, that,
with a decent orchestra, it pretty well plays itself.
At the Royal on this occasion it has the advantage
over last reyival of “slicker ” stage management)
but there are in other respects more points for criti-
cism. It is not an improvement to give the color-
less Harry Bronson an interlopated song ; as Billy
Breeze Mr. J. Hughes gives an unpleasant idea
that he is going to burst his boilers, such terribly
hard work does lie make of his song ; and if it is
desired to give Miss Minnie Hooper a better show
as Kissy Fitzgarter she should have an additional
dance, not a song, for she has extra-nimble feet,
but an undistinguished voice. Miss Vinia de
Loitte made a happy first appearance in Sydney
as Fifi Fricot ; she has a sweet, sympathetic
voice, reminiscent of that of Violet Var-
ley, and acts with dainty grace; but she
doesn’t yet know how to dance; with that
knowledge added to her other accomplishments
she should do well in comic opera. The only other
notable change in the cast was that Miss Elsie
Moore took the part of Cora Angelique and, of
course, showed as a graceful figure, but she might
have acted with a little more animation. For the
rest, Graham was a most humorous Bronson, and
Fred Leslie and Olive Lenton made, perhaps,
the brightest feature of the evening with their
street-arab antics.
#* # *
Two hundred pounds was realised at the
Wallaroo Disaster Concert at Sydney Town Hall
last Saturday night. That portion of the hall
where they seat Vice-regal persons, society and
press dead-heads was nearly uninhabited. It trans-
pired, though, that a lot of the naval and military
paid for seats but preferred “The Belle of New
York “as a spectacle. The “handy man” and
his girl made up the bulk of the audience that
crowded galleries and lower half of hall. The
civilian section of that same audience received the
“Cutlass Drill” display by bluejackets from
H.M.S. Mildura with great enthusiasm. Cut and
thrust and guard and the gleam of naked steel (on
a stage) always thrills the civilian youth. For the
rest the handy man’s girl lost her collective heart
to the wondrously physically-cultured giant of a
petty-officer who directed the drill.
*# * *
With entrepreneur Rickards’ return, stars
are falling upon the Tivoli almost as thick as
autumn leaves in Hyde Park. The Dumonds
arrived on Saturday, three of them, eccentric
musicians. The musical critic praises them for
their sweet timbre, their tender ensemble, their
intricate double-stopping, their accuracy of pitch,
and the neatness of a long descending chromatic
passage, and of an extended arpeggio in harmonios.
The gallery probably didn’t notice the arpeggio,
but it relished the rare fooling of the musical
clown of the trio, and the tenor serenade of the
singer who plays the guitar. The Cirnocs have
moved on, but Vulcana still bares her beautiful
back, and moves her wonderful muscles in the
limelight; Fanny Powers is repeating her popular
imitations of Peggy Pryde and other celebrities ;
Dewar’s dogs still play their melodrama; and
J. 0. Leetc stands at the door and surveys a full
house every night.
*# * *
Audiences of the “Eternal City” miss
one of the great charms of the piece by turning
their attention to self or neighbors when the
curtain drops on the various scenes. Attention
should merely be transferred from stage to
orchestra and Mascagni’s music. He that hath
ears to hear let him near what Mascagni sayeth
to the listeners. Let him ignore the fact
that he hath a mouth. The man and the
dog who wait without will wait till
eleven o’clock. The feminines would do well
to subordinate their tongues to their ears. As it
is, the charming preludes, interludes and serenades
don’t get a tenth of the attention they deserve,
and poor Alfred Hill, who conducts, casts re-
proachful glances at the chattering, shifting,
chocolate-eating dress-circlers. The piece is
drawing good houses. Julius Knight continues
to be intense and as like a Yarra bank orator as
any gifted mummer out of Haw-land may be.
Miss Jeffries wears regal clothes regally, and sobs
as convulsively as if it wasn’t all Hall Caine
and gammon. Arthur Wontner, as Baron Bonel-
lin, inhabits a mighty fine palace, judging by its
loggia. One wonders if ever he lets it furnished
(at a nominal rent to a good tenant without
children). When he strikes matches on the mar-
ble bust that Donna Roma has just completed one
wonders why she doesn’t use the mallet (that lies
handy) on his head. There is a quarter of a mile
of cast, and the units thereof are all good—in spite
of Hall Caine.
** * *
Miss Yvonne Leverrier, a sister of
Sydney’s scientist-violinist and University lec-
turer, gave a piano recital at Paling’s last Thurs-
day. She is an Australian who studied for five or
six years with Leschchetzsky in Vienna, and then
set up. in Paris, whether she intends returning
in a few- months after giving her countrymen a
further taste of her melody and technique.
#* * *
Miss Clare Scarr, whose concert, under
the management of Mr. Sykes, occurs on Feb.
10th in Centenary Hall, Sydney, is said by those
who have, heard her privately to own a sweet and
mounting soprano. She left Sydney some years
ago and studied under Madam Renee Richard in
Paris.' This lady, who was once mezzo-soprano
star of the Paris Opera and Covent Garden, has a
little theatre of her own for her pupils, and in it
Miss Scarr, after hard study, appeared in the
principal rdles in “ Samson et Delila,” “Carmen,”
“ Mignon,” and “Orpheus.”
#* # *
“Saturday Night in London” will con-
tinue at Sydney Lyceum until Saturday next,
when “The 10.30 Down Express” will be staged.
** # *
The hustling co. which is behind the
water-chute and the fiery-dragon at Manly has
added a variety theatre to the attractions of
Steyiie Court. Anniversary Day saw the open-
ing, \vith a biograph “ Trip to the Moon ” in the
forefront ,of the bill. There are four perform-
ances daily, the first starting at 3 and the last at
9.15.
** * *
The Monarch yawned upon his Throne (the long
day neared its close):
“Now tell me what the poet says re one of
Melbourne’s shows ;
It matters not which print you take, the Argus
or the Age,
You’ll find, no doubt, a beauteous verse upon
‘ Amusement ’ page ;
* A Country Girl’s’ been running at Her Majesty’s
sometime — j-
O, read to me the epic ad., and linger on the
rhyme.
Read soft and low, read sad and slow, the while I
gently weep,
Then sing it in a minor key until I fall asleep.”
The Master of the Regal Robes did read as he was
told—
A tear-drop dimmed King Edward’s eye and down
his cheek it rolled ;
Then with his courtier’s plaintive song his royal
tones were blent,
Till m his restful sleep he droned this sweet ad-
vertisement,
Soft and low,
Sad and slow,
Lulled in calm content,
Dreamily King Edward sang this sweet advertise-
ment :
“Ada Crossley said—‘My sunny home I never
shall forget,
My native land, Australia, where the dearest
friends I met;
And amongst my sweetest memories will be the
happy night
I went to see “A Country Girl” —it filled me
with delight.”’
The foregoing fiction is incidental to the great
Imperial fact that Saturday last was a vice regal
command night at Her Majesty’s. Lord North-
cote witnessed the performance of “A Country
Girl,” and was pleased to say that it was good.
Thus far it has been good for six weeks.
£|£
“In London Town ” will hold the floor at
Melbourne Royal for a few nights only, the revival
of a horsey drama being now in earnest prepara-
tion. The present drama is remarkably free from
horse, also it is lacking in orthodox scenes of
heroism. Walter Baker plays a noble character
whose advanced age and enormous wealth unfit
him for reckless deeds. Baker is philanthropic,
picturesque and credulous, and his rich, musical
voice harmonises with his alleged banking account,
but it isn’t he who saves Miss Ross from a watery
frave, or manslaughters the principal villain ; Bland
[olt, as a comic-relief sailor with a long lost mother
in the workhouse, is the real hero of the piece,
although his rescue of the drowning female seems
to be rather a soft snap. A body comes floating
along on top of a painted river as buoyantly as
the corpse m a boot-trunk tragedy, whereupon
Bland makes himself scarce for a moment before
returning to observation with Miss Ross in his
arms. Last Saturday he was a bit late at the
rescue, and the floating figure appeared to crook
its forefinger in a significant manner, as though
reminding Bland of his job. Punctuality is the
soul of sensation-drama business.
#* * *
At the Opera House improved patronage
waits upon an improved programme, and the star
of Rickards seems to be redeeming its former
position in the heavens. Melbourne feels not
unkindly towards the Empire Girls, who nod
their head and legs in unison, and otherwise
behave as one girl multiplied by six. The internal
government of this Girl Commonwealth is good.
Their unity is strength—about 95 per cent, of their
total strength. And their air of universal friend-
ship may be commended to the imitation of many
different half-dozens of girls who assemble and
meet together for purposes of work and wages.
Clarke and Hamilton are still giving the capital
“ turn ” that begins with broad musical comedy
and ends in a limelight dance. The colored
biograph is satisfactory, and a new contralto sings
on a go-as-you-please system with her hands
behind her back, which attitude of vocalism is
probably studied from illustrations of somebody’s
patent corset.
** * *
The Bijou panto, lost the run of Harry
Shine once or twice last week, but recovered that
best bf she-male comedians on Saturday, in con-
sideration of which joyful circumstance Shine
will take a benefit the last night of the season.
Also the Australian author and the bona fide native
producer are conspiring to take a benefit in the
interests of Literature and Art, or out of respect
for their own commercial principles. Anyway,
the joint parents of the panto, promise a special
interlude for the occasion.
** * #
The Adelaide theatres are awaking from
their summer sleep. Pantomime is promised at
the Royal, and the Tivoli has reopened with a
Rickards Go., of which the Cirnocs, “local chal-
lenger ” and all complete, form the leading
feature; but this business has been slightly dis-
counted by aless-distinguished “ handcuff queen ”
lately showing on the same stage.
The Wild Cat Column.
Australian Treasurer George Turner is having
his “quiet talk” this week with the State Treasurers.
There are two things in particular to talk about —pay-
ment for the public buildings, &e., taken over by the
Federal Government, and the taking over of the debts.
As to the public buildings the State Premiers, when they
met in Sydney, asked for cash. That, of course, is out of
the question, unless the States use the money’ to pay off
the loans with which the taken-over works were built.
In that case the Federal Government would have to
borrow at once, and this isn’t a good time to borrow.
Moreover, it would be an unnecessarily round-about pro-
cedure. The only plan suitable for the times is to take
over as much of the debt as the works represent.
But when it takes over that much of the debt it might
just as well take over the whole lot. For three years
more, and so long as may be decided, separate accounts
have to be kept for each State: and if the whole debt
were taken over, the simple plan would have to be, and
easily could be, followed of charging each State with its
own’interest. If the present amount of “Federal re-
funds” w’ould not cover this charge, then that amount
would have to be made larger by increased taxation. If
that cannot be accomplished, then the railway revenues
might be tapped for whatever shortage there may be.
As loans fall due they would be renewed by the Federal
Government at a uniform rate of interest. That rate
might not, for a start, be as low as it ought to be, but it
will certainly be. lower than any single State could get
the money for. And it would go lower with the growth
of the sinking fund, upon which the Australian
Parliament would certainly insist. A large con-
version scheme would follow when the market was
ripe for it. There is no need of an elaborate
scheme of “ taking over the debts in fact, any attempt
at fixing up an elaborate scheme will most likely end in
nothing at all for a good many more years. The “ blot ”
by which separate accounts may be kept for as long as
the Parliament pleases provides the easiest, simplest,
and most certain way’ out of the difficulty.
One obstacle has been the refusal of the States
to agree to borrow in the future only with the Federal
authority’s approval. Prime Minister Deakin put it,
even before he was Prime Minister, that the Federal
Government could not be expected to take over debts if
it did not have some control over the mortgaged assets ;
in other words, it could not allow the bill of sale to be
double-banked. But, even if the State Governments
will not give up this power to borrow “ for the
development of their own States,” as they put it, there
is a way out. The Federal Government has practically
unlimited powers of direct taxation ; and while it has
those powers, it has command of the largest and best
asset. If, then, the State Governments persist in borrow-
ing, the Federal Government can persist in paying back.
It can do that by direct taxation, applying the results to
purchasing the new bonds. It can’t take over the new
debts, but it can buy them up in this way ; and when the
people find that, after all, they are paying certain taxes
for no other reason than that their demoralised State
Governments are floating loans, they will not be long
in deciding that it would be better business to do with-
out the loans, and to apply the taxes direct to the
carrying out of necessary works. The Federal Govern-
ment has, in short, the whip-hand. It can put Australia
on the track of sound finance and solvency if it wants to.
And sooner or later it must do it. That the present
system, or want of system, should continue indefinitely
is unthinkable. The Government has the power, and as
the guardian of all-Australian interests it has the respon-
sibility. The only question is whether it will act now or
wait till things get worse, and it becomes more difficult
to act.
• • + *
The Australian Joint Stock Bank (Sydney):
Profits by Added
Banking Purchase of Written to Be- Re-
Profits. Depreciated off. serves, serves.
Deposits.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1897.. - _ 52,000
Deo., 1897.. 1,725 1,725 63,725
Jtine, 1898.. 3,746 3,746 57,471
Dec., 1898.. 266 266 67,737
June, 1899.. 1,358 1,358 69,095
Dec., 1899.. 2,912 88,908 91,820 160,915
June, 1900.. 2,057 20,565 22,622 173,537
Dec., 1900.. 2,548 19,963 22,511 196,048
June, 1901.. 13,465 21,947 11,000 24,412 220,460
Dec., 1901.. 3,584 12,663 16,247 236,707
June, 1902.. 2,043 20,840 22,883 269,590
Dec., 1902.. 3,463 17,659 21,022 280,612
June, 1903.. 4,190 18,384 22,574 303,186
Dec., 1903.. 1,166 21,760 22,926 326,112
The accounts are still presented in their old form, but
another cleaning-up is In sight, and when that operation
is through the figures will look very different. It has
been obvious for a long while that a good many of the
items in the balance sheet were something between a
tragedy and a joke. Capital (paid) stood ana still stands
at £1,168,041. On that amount and reserves as at July
Ist the business profit was equal to 3s. 2d. per cent, per
annum. The whole year’s profit was equal to about 7s. 9d.
per cent. For the past four years (including the term when
a lucky hit was made in Queensland) the average has been
11s. sd. If 4 per cent, is a fair return (it is, as a matter of
fact, much under the recent average of Australian
banks), then the whole of the capital would have to he
written off as lost, and a full third of the reserves into
the bargain. Even on a 3 per cent, basis, last year’s
business profits indicated a total capital of only £178,000.
If last year’s profits were a fair test it would
therefore be necessary for the A.J.S., in order to put
itself on a sound basis, not only to write off the whole of
its paid capital, but to make a call as well. (The
authorised capital is £1,566,020, so that there is £397,979
to call.) But, probably, though most of the other Aus-
tralian banks made much larger profits than usual last
year, the A.J.S., being mainly interested in way-out
pastoral properties, which felt the drought the worst,
could not reasonably be expected to do so. Upon this
probability a hope may be built that, though an amount
equal to the total of the paid capital will have to dis-
appear, nothing further will have to be called. Presum-
ably the reserves will disappear first; then the capital
may be written down to £250,000. This would mean a
writing-off of £1,244,153. It is heroic, but it is no use
delaying longer.
During the A.J.S. Bank’s past half-year the
bank and the Western Lafcids Commissioners have been
going through the Far West (N.S.W.) pastoral securities
held by the bank. Under the Western Lands Act the
lessees out in that dry country may have certain rent
and term-of-tenure concessions, provided that they have
a reasonable chance of eventually getting their heads
above water. In other words, provided that, among
other things, the mortgagee writes off enough of the
debt to give the mortgagor a chance, the State will
make certain concessions. The A. J.S.’s writing-off under
this arrangement will amount to £344,112. _ It _ would Da.
interesting to know what proportion this is of the
original debt. But there are a lot of interesting things
that you can’t find out from balance-sheets. Pending,
however, the general clean-up, this £344,112 is not yet
formally written off.
The whole position compares as follows with
that of 12 months back :
Dec., 1902. Dec., 1903. Increase.
Cash and Liquid Assets.. £981,880 £1,330,062 £348,182
Decreases
New Deposits .. .. 992,235 988,953 3,282
Old Deposits .. .. 4,883,603 4,772,632 110,971
Advances, &c. .. -. 6,202,063 6,758,524 443,539
Premises .. .. .. 365,789 365,789
Notes in Circulation .. 93,944 80,124 13,820
Bills in Circulation .. 115,436 108,850 6,586
New deposits, notes, bills, and balances due other banks,
aggregating £1,187,589, are a prior charge on all assets ;
and the liquid assets are shown above to be £1,330,062.
About £260,000 of “A” deposits were due on Jan. Ist;
even with that paid out, there would still be almost 100
per cent, of liquid assets against prior-charge liabilities.
This, no doubt, means comparatively low earning capa-
city ; but, then, it is the business of the A.J.S. at present
to inspire confidence rather than to make immediate
profits.
One other point remains—the reduction of
“ reconstructed ” deposits. In the last three years this
progress has been made :
Amount due. Paid off.
Dec., 1899 .. .. £6,784,223 ..
June, 1900 .. .. 5,457,327 £326,896
Dec., 1900 .. .. 6,390,005 .. 67,322
June, 1901 .. .. 5,318,901 .. 71,104
Dec., 1901 .. .. 5,269,030 .. 49,871
June, 1902 .. .. 4,939,221 .. 329,809
Dec., 1902 .. .. 4,883,603 .. 55,618
June, 1903 .. .. 4,829,565 .. 54,038
Dec., 1903 .. .. 4,772,632 .. 66,933
In the last eighteen months £166,589 of depreciated
deposits have been bought up, and the bank has made a
profit of £57,703 on the transactions. On the average
(and disregarding any expenses) it has bought back its
own 1.0. U. at a discount of between 34 and 35 per cent.
Still, if it is true that one can get comfort out of the mis-
fortunes of others, the depositors who lose 35 per cent,
may do well to remember that the shareholders are in a
very good way of formally losing just about 100 per cent.
They have already lost it in every other way than
formally.
» * * *
Tiie Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assur-
ance Society :
Added to
Income Outgoings Insur-
, ‘ , , * , ance
Oct., Premiums Interest Claims Expenses Fund
1897 ..£150,602 £58,446 £121,983 £38,060 £49,005
1898 .. 155,539 58,881 108,768 41,936 63,716
1899 .. 161,603 60,853 115,640 48,950 57,866
1900 .. 171,740 62,050 122,187 52,079 59,524
1901 .. 183,805 63,293 109,639 56,519 80,940
Contingency Reserve Carried to Insurance
Fund 9.324
1902 . 182,091 67,205 138,383 61,718 59,195
1903 .. 180,405 70,073 140,982 47,523 61,973
In addition to the income for the past year shown above,
£1307 was made by the realisation- of securities which
were written down after the collapse of the Melbourne
boom. In the previous year the accumulations on this
account were very unwisely added to the insurance


ħ
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.— Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheeibarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loc . >
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne ~. .
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Turntabies, &c.
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., LVDUV
m 1 Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking. “SS
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop- Ltd., 40 Hunter St:, SYDNEY. A. E. L.EPLABTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Kopped, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
The attention of mine managers, engineers, etc.,
is drawn to the fact that the Dunlop Tyre 00. are now
manufacturing rubber conveying belts for a,l P u *P°®®®~
made endless and in any length up to 45 inches. Guaran-
teed the highest quality, and free from stretch. Sample
and price upon application. See Dunlop advertisement
on page 27 in this week’s issue.*
* * * *
The Australian Insurance and 'Banking
Record, Melbourne, 20th June, 1903 : The statement
of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society s new
business shows a substantial increase in both the total
and the average amount per policy, and the accounts
show a steady increase in premium income, a higner rate
of interest,’a lower expense ratio, and an almost
stationary position in payments to policyholders, a
very substantial sum has in consequence been added to
the accumulated funds. The accounts betoken careful
and assiduous administration with an improvement in
material features.”*
* •
The Cathcart Proprietary G.M. Co. (Victoria)
has lately placed an order with the Austral Otis Company
of South Melbourne, for a complete electric lighting and
power plant, including also boilers, feed pump, surface
condenser and air pump. The new plant will furnish
sufficient electricity for motors to drive puddlers, the
winding engine and a three throw pump, the latter
being capable of lifting 25,000 gallons of water per hour
against a total head of 215 feet. The generating set will
consist of a vertical enclosed compound engine of lbU
8.H.P., coupled direct to a Ganz three phase generator
of 110 killowatts output. The electrical portion of the
plant will be carried out in the latest three phase system
of Ganz and Co., with 500 volts working pressure and a
frequency of 60 periods. We believe this is the first
instance in Victoria of an individual mine adopting
electricity as a motive power for pumping, hoisting ana
puddling machinery, and no doubt when the plant is in
operation, which it will be in about six months’ time a
number of other companies will follow the example of
the Oathcart Company.
• » * *
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
♦ * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Oastlereagh-street. 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write'or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * ♦
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.* .
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with*about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
» » * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining: properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
**■ » *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
B. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
• » * *
Alfred Bowry, sharebroker and mining secre-
tary, Charters Towers (member of the Charters Towers
Stock Exchange), sends (gratis) a weekly report on the
mines of that field, also a private code, to intending
speculators. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. -4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
• • « «
A local syndicate has been formed in Hill End
(N.S.W.) to try to get the Government to lease 60 acres of
the resumed Hawkins’ Hill. As there appears Buckley’s
show of the gigantic tunnel scheme ever coming to any-
thing, it would seem foolish to keep the once sensational
Hill for ever locked up.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald,
174 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eagle-st.,
Brisbane; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellinjrton, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.
SCHWEPPES MALVERN SPA
By Special Appointment to His Majesty King Edward VII.
Bottled at Celebrated
Malvern Springs,
England.
fund, lnstaiid of being turned into a special reserve to
meet the next depreciation of securities that came along.
The socnety apparently has not quite made up its mind
What to do with future moneys from the same source ,
at present the amount realised during the past year is in
a suspense account The sooner it is put somewhere
where it cannot be used to puff up the next bonus
distribution the better.
The expense rate has moved as follows:
Expenses Compared with Total Income (Profit on
Securities not Included in Income.)
“ £lB 4 2 Per cent. 1901 .. £22 17 6 percent.
JB9B .. 19 11 2 „ 1902 .. 20 14 11 „
1899 .. 22 0 1 „ 1903.. 18 19 5 „
1900 .. 22 5 6 „
But the whole of this reduction has sprung from a rather
serious falling off in new business. Only 2198 policies,
assuring £425,254, were issued as against 2736 policies
•SJNjrjPfl £514,423 in 1902, and 3438 policies assuring
£703,759. in_ 1901. Expenses of management alone,
as distinguished from commissions, medical fees,
travelling, &c., were equal to £9 12s. 6d per
cent, of income from premiums and interest last year
as against £9 3s. 6d. in 1902 and £9 9s. lOd. in 1901. The
movement shown above is therefore not all that it looks
on the surface For part of the increase, the Vic. income-
tax is responsible. Insurance co.’s have met the alleged
Australian depression in two ways ; some of them, fear-
fully nervous about loss of prestige, and therefore dread-
ing a downward movement in the amount of new business
written, have made a special effort, at a very special
expense in some cases, and consequently show a substan-
tial increase in expense rate ; others have decided not to
force business at bad times, and have taken things even
more quietly than usual. The Widows’ Fund is one of
the latter. Yet, though it has evidently made no special
effort, and though the total therefore shows a large falling
away, what it did get cost rather more than usual. Com-
missions, medical fees, and travelling expenses absorbed
136 per cent, of the year’s premiums on the new policies
written, compared with 133 per cent, in 1902 and 117 per
cent, in 1901. This cannot be regarded as a very satis-
factory experience, though to largely increase the expense
rate in the struggle to get as much new business as was
got formerly, might very easily be even less satisfactory.
It is simply a question of choosing between two evils.
The next calculation gives a more cheerful re-
sult :
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1897 .. £4 15 6 per cent. 1901 .. £4 5 9 per cent.
1898 .. 411 11 „ 1902 ..468 „
1899.. 410 7 „ 1903.. 471 „
1900 ..484
The total insurance fund is now £1,639,726, including the
contingency fund before alluded to. The assets, so far as
can be judged from this very substantial return, are solid
and satisfactory. They consist chiefly of loans on mort-
gage, £989,036 ; loans on policies, f 204,432 ; and public
securities, £186,275. The foreclosed properties (written
down, as before mentioned, and now being realised) still
stand in the books at £54,756.
» * * •
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat, Vic.):
Written Added
off pre- to Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends, mises. serves, serves.
Dec., 1896 .. £2936 51 p.c. = £2337 £599£54,921
June, 1897 .. 2880 51 „ „ 2337 543 55,464
Dec., 1897 .. 2636 51 „ „ 2337 299 55,763
June, 1898 .. 2784 51 „ „ 2337 447 66,210
Dec., 1898 .. 2906 51 „ „ 2337 569 56,779
June, 1899 .. 3022 51 „ „ 2337 685 57,464
Dec., 1899 .. 2990 51 „ „ 2337 653 58,117
June, 1900 .. 3153 51 „ „ 2337 816 58,933
Dec , 1900 .. 3334 6 „ „ 2550 784 59,717
June, 1901 .. 3542 6 „,, 2550 £225 767 60,484
Dec., 1901 .. 3629 6 „ „ 2550 300 779 61,263
June, 1902 .. 3689 6 „ „ 2550 1139 62,402
Dec., 1902 .. 3627 6 „,, 2550 500 577 62,979
June, 1903 .. 3474 6 „ „ 2550 250 674 63,653
Dec., 1903 .. 4004 6 „ „ 2550 250 1204 64,857
The profits were equal to £5 7s. 9d. per cent, per annum
on total shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of
the half-year (£85,000 capital and £63,653 reserves).
Recent results on this basis have been :
Dec., 1901 £4 19 9 p.c. June, 1903 £4 13 11 p.c.
June, 1902 5 011 „ Dec., 1903 5 7 9 „
Dec., 1902 4 18 5 ~
But, strictly, the difference between the last two terms
is not so great as this ; for a whole year’s income tax was
charged to the half-year ended June, 1903, and none at
all to the past half-year. If a fair proportion were
charged to each term, the profits at June, 1903, would
have been about £3644 (equal to £4lBs. 7d. per cent.), and
for, the past term £3BOO (equal to £5 2s. 3d. per cent.).
This leaves the last half-year a good deal ahead of its
predecessor, but not quite so much ahead as, on the co.’s
figures, it looks to be. Cash and liquid assets (£65,721)
are equal to very nearly 30 per cent, of the bank’s
liabilities to the public (£222,992), which rate shows a
small shrinkage, due to increased advances.
* * * *
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Sydney)
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
June, 1897.. £48,436 15 p.c. = £51,135 £113,479
Dec., 1897.. 54,743 15 „ „ 51,135 £3608 117,087
June, 1898.. 47,923 15 „ ~ 51,135 113,875
Dec., 1898.. 54,156 15 „ „ 51,135 3021 116,896
June, 1899.. 46,995 15 „ „ 51,135 112,756
Dec., 1899.. 55,628 15 „ „ 51,135 4493 117,249
June, 1900.. 47,879 15 „ „ 51,135 113,993
Dec., 1900. 54,033 15 „ „ 51,135 2898 116,891
June, 1901. 48,352 15 „ ~ 51,135 114,108
Dec., 1901.. 56,818 15 „ „ 51,918 4900 119,008
June, 1902.. 49,954 15 „ „ 55,045 113,917
Dec., 1902.. 61,546 15 „ „ 56,205 5341 119,258
June, 1903.. 51,703 15 „ „ 56,250 114,711
Dec., 1903.. 60,445 15 „ ~ 56,250 4195 118,906
The reserves consist of reserve fund £110,450 and undi-
vided profit £8456. In addition to this there is a reserve
for the replacement of meters, £7194, not included in the
above. A weakness of the situation is the absence of
any investment apart from the business. Not only the
whole of the capital and reserves, but £500,111 of “ tem-
porary loans, debentures, etc.,” is sunk in mains,
buildings, coal, lamp-posts, etc.; and as something may
conceivably happen some day to very greatly reduce the
value of most of these things, the present system seems
to be a good deal open to objection. Certainly it would
be difficult to get hold of investments that would yield
as high a rate of interest. In its entire enterprise the co.
.has £1,554,637 invested ; and last year’s return on this
amount was equal to £7 4s. per cent. A co. which, by
extraordinary good fortune, such as.is not likely to come
the way of any other co., can show a return of that size
ought to be doing something considerable in the way of a
sinking fund, and it is doing nothing. It has got the
borrowing disease almost as badly as the State has had,
and, possessing about the most gorgeous monopoly in this
continent, it has had less excuse for it than even the
Owe’Sullivan could urge. On the paid capital (£750,000)
and reserves as at the commencement of the half-year
the profits were at the rate of just under 14 per cent, per
annum.
• • * *
“ A lot more information will be required before
the casual speculator can be expected to invest a penny
in it without risking his reputation for sanity,” is the
cruel way in which a London financial paper criticises
A. J. Cadman’s proposed New Zealand Iron Co.
The Metropolitan Gas Co (Melbourne) :
New Works
Profits Dividends Charged to Be*
Revenue serves
Dec., 1899. £519,683
June, 1900.. £47,129 8 p.c. =£34,288 532,524
Dec, 1900.. 58,727 8 „ „ 34.258 £1,442 555,521
June, 1901.. 53,955 9. ~ ~ 38,574 9,758 561,144
Dec., 1901.. 56,872 9 ~ „ 38,574 10,725 568,717
June, 1902.. 50,212 9 „ „ 38,574 11,643 568,712
Dec., 1902.. 50,454 9 „ 38,574 5,172 575,420
£5665 written of Meter Renewal Reserve .. 569,755
June, 1903.. 46,776 9 p.c. = £38,574 7,573 570,384
£2OOO written off Gas Stoves Account.. .. \ t 79 o 4fi
Dec., 1903.. 52,017 9 p.c. =£38,574 9,481/ 0 ‘ J ’
The reserves consist of £466,535 premium capital, £87,812
reserve fund, £14,336 meterTenewal fund, and £3663
undivided profit. With the exception of £50,000,
consisting of the co’s. own debentures (of which
£848,000 have been issued) all the reserves are
used in the business. The paid capital is
£857,210, on which the profit was equST to £l2 3s. per
cent, per annum ; while on the basis- of total share-
holders’ funds (including premium reserves, &c.) the re-
turn was £7 ss. per cent. For the size of the co. the
additions to reserves are miserably insufficient, simply'
because of the unwarranted increase of the dividend to
9 per cent, after a half-year whose like has not been seen
since All that can be said in extenuation is that the co
is paying out of revenue for extensions which some co. s
might provide for out of capital. Still these extensions
will not pay for the heavy load of debentures which will
begin to mature in about four years, and for which the
co. should have been making substantial provision all
aiong- .
The City of Newcastle Gas and Coke Co.
(Newcastle, N.S.W.):
Added to Re-
Profits Dividends Reserves serves
Dec., 1900 £42,901
June, 1901 ..£3137 15 p.c. = £lBB5 £1252 44,153
Dec., 1901 .. 2494 15 „ „ 1885 609 44,762
June, 1902 .. 2660 15 „ „ 1885 776 45,537
Dec., 1902 .. 3499 15 „ „ 2180 1319 46,856
June, 1903 .. 2778 15 „ „ 2574 204 47,060
Dec, 1903 .. 3280 15 „ „ 2969 311 47,371
The capital is now £40,892; at the commencement of
the half-year it was £35,639. The co. is one of the very
few N.S.W. gas co.’s (almost the only one) which has
some investments apart from the business of making gas
and coke. it has £16,634 of N.S W. stock. Its whole
position is unusually strong.
The City of Goulburn Gas and Coke Co.
(Goulburn, N S.W.)
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
June, 1901 ' £ |>927
Dec., 1901 ..£BO2 15 per cent. = £750 £52 5979
June, 1902 .. 762 15 „ „ 760 12 5991
Dec., 1902 .. 942 15 „ „ 750 192 6183
June, 1903 .. 938 16 „ „ 750 188 6371
Dec., 1903 .. 953 15 „ „ 750 203 65<4
* * * *
Tamworth Gas and Coke Co. (Tamworth,
N.S.W.):—
' Added
Written to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec. 1901 £1574
June, 1902 ..£692 10 p.c. =£soo £192 1766
Dec , 1902 .. 699 10 „ „ 500 199 1965
June, 1903 .. 623 10 „ „ 500 £lOO 23 1988
Dec., 1903 .. 571 10 „ „ 546 25 2013
The paid capital is £10,920, as against £lO,OOO previously.
The dividend is now too high ; at the end of the half-year
the co. did not, as a matter of fact, have the money to
pay it with. It is doubtful also whether the writings-oft
are sufficient.
* * * *
The Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney):
Profits . .
(less Carried
Writings- to _ „ ..
off). Dividend. Reserves. Deficit.
1891 £1,716 Nil. £1716 £1,488
1892 1,875 Nil. 1875 SK?’
1893 3,415 6 per cent. = £l5OO 1915 2,302
1894 4,075 6 ~ „ 1500 2575 4.8i7
1895 4,159 6 ~ ~ 1500 2659 7,536
1896 3,361 6 „ „ 1500 1861 9,397
1897 4,588 6 ~ ~ 1500 3088 12,485
1898 3,633 7 „ „ 1750 1883 14,368
1899 4,010 7 „ „ 1750 2260 16,628
1900 4,538 8 „ „ 2000 2538 19,166
1901 4 754 8 „ „ 2000 2754 21,920
1902 7,237 10 ~ „ 2500 4737 26,657
1903 10,519 10 „ „ 2500 8019 34,676
The reserves consist of reserve fund £19,500, dividend
equalisation fund (a new and not commendable feature)
£LOOO, commission reserved account £13,228, and un-
divided profit £948. The commission reserved account
has received the large addition of £4200 during the year;
this amount is not shown by the co. as profit, but is
necessarily included as such in the above table. This
latter large and unexplained accession of profit, accom-
panied by the fact that there has been no writing off
during the year, establishes for the co. an easy record.
On the paid capital of £25,000 the return is equal to a
dazzling £42 15s. per cent. ; on paid capital and reserves
combined, it is equal to £2O 6s. per cent., as against
£l5 8s 6d. in 1902. Last year the Ballarat Trustees Co.
showed £l5 15s. lOd.; but the Sydney Perpetual easily
beats that figure again, and so continues at the head of
the list. There is nothing, however, to indicate
that this may be reckoned as normal; no doubt
the profit shown by the profit and loss account
(£6319) gets nearer that mark. Yet even that is equal
to about 12J per cent on total shareholders’ funds. The
amount of business in the co.’s hands is growing rapidly.
In 1895 it was £2,424,413 : in 1902, £4,653,450 ; last year,
£5,453,002. From an investing point of view the liability
of £9 10s. per share is uncomfortable, though with the
rapid increase of reserves the uncomfortable feeling grows
less ; from the client’s viewpoint, shareholders’ liability
is, of course, grateful and comforting.
* * * *
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors, and
Agency Co. of Tasmania (Hobart, Tas.)
Dividends Added
and Written to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1897 .. £465 6 p.c. =£3ls £l5O £3950
June, 1898 .. 421 6 „ „ 315 - 106 4056
Dec., 1898.. 421 6 „ „ 315 1»6 4162
June, 1899.. 365 6 „ „ 315 50 4212
Dec., 1899 .. 346 6 „ „ 315 31 4243
June, 1900.. 380 6 „ „ 315 - 65 4308
Dec 1900 .. 358 6 ~ ~ 315 43 4351
June, 1901 !! 454 6 ” „ 315 - 139 4490
Dec 1901 .. 1404 8 „ „ 420 984 5474
June, 1902 .. 703 8 „ „ 420 £255 28 5502
Dec., 1902.. 677 8 „ „ 420 -57 5759
June, 1903 .. 796 8 „ „ 420 713 5422
Dec., 1903.. 676 8 „ „ 420 256 5678
The capital is £lO,OOO, and the profit on this and reserves
combined has been equal to £8 15s. 4d. per cent, per
annum, or just over 131, per cent, on capital alone. The
co.’s total revenue (£1043) is derived from commission
and interest, but how much of it is interest and how
much commission isn’t stated. The investments, irre-
spective of the £5OOO deposit with the Treasurer, consist
chiefly of loans on mortgage, £4057, and property, £3125,
the latter being the item to which the recent writing
down was directed.
* * * *
The New Zealand Insubance Co. (Auckland,
M.L.). .. S
Added to
Written Re- Re-
Nov., Profits Dividends. off. serves, serves
1894 £44,905 13} p.c. = £27,500 £lB,BOB £257,620
1895 32,954 13} „ 27,500 13,524 £49,550
1896 29,097 13} .. 27,500 £1,597 201,147
1897 11,074 11} „ , 22,500 _ 239, <2l
Loss. . cr .
1898 14,262 10 „ „ 20,000 • 205,459
Profits. ; ,
1899 51,409 10 „ 20,000 31,409 £36,868
1900 69,617 12} „ „ 25,000 44,617 281,485
1901 55,119 13} „ „ 27,500 13,937 13,682 295,167
1902 55,526 15 „,, 30,000 25,526 320,693
1903 73,443 15 „ ~ 30,000 4,354 39,089 359,<8-
These other particulars will show further how matters
have progressed with this, the greatest of Australasian
fire co.’s :
Premiums Interest, &c. Losses. Expenses.
1898 .. £311,341 £17,250 £261,932 £82,200
1899 .. 315,284 16,922 194,428 86,625
1900 .. 342,036 18,363 195,804 95,651
1901 .. 371,487 19,560 234,041 101,886
1902 .. 386,960 21.963 249,158 104,370
1903 .. 400,707 23,962 245,868 105,358
The paid capital is £200,000 ; on .that and reserves a total
profit at the rate of £l4 2s. per cent, was shown last year.
Interest and rents by themselves were very nearly equal
to 4} per cent, on total shareholders’ funds ; on paid
capital alone they would have almost sufficed to pay a 12
per cent, dividend. The investments which produce
these most excellent results include freehold office and
other properties, £221,041 ; mortgages and shares,
£56,156 ; M.L. Govt, debentures, £75,000 ; British Con-
sols, £53,240; United States bonds (3 and 4 per cents.),
£54,440 ; and the balance mostly local debentures. This
co. now ranks with the greatest of British fire insurance
co.’s, only three or four of which have a larger premium
income. It has now, for instance, passed the Guardian
(excluding accident and life business), and is almost up
to the Atlas.
* * ♦ *
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway Co.
(N.S W)
Income. Outgoings.
, , <- —; ~T~s
Unexplained Written Divi-
Inerease of off Rg- dend Re-
Profits. Reserves, serves, at 4 p.c. serves.
Dec., 1899.. £2,999 £36,006
June, 1900. 682 £390 £2OOO 35,078
Dec., 1900.. 4,603 1,583 2000 39,264
June, 1901.. 973 £1,584 2000 36,653
Dec , 1901 . 4,106 218 2000 38,541
June, 1902.. 2,228 13 2000 38,782
Dec., 1902.. 4,412 1 2000 41,195
June, 1903.. 636 59 2000 39,772
Dec., 1903.. 1,392 1 2000 39,165
The co.’s paid capital is £lOO,OOO ; and the half-year’s
return has been at the rate of only £2 15s. 9d. percent, per
annum on this. The co., unlike the State railway system,
is dependent upon one industry and one district; and
the past few years have been particularly bad for
that industry and that district. Nevertheless, in the
past three years the co., with only this one bad dis-
trict to draw upon, has made its 4 per cent., and £99
over to go to reserves. This isn’t an argument in favor
of private railways ; but it is an argument in favor of im-
porting into the management of public railways some of
those things which go to make the private lines a finan-
cial success.
The North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
(Sydney):
Income. Outgoings.
y >
r" 1 n r N
Unexplained
Business Additions Written Total
Profits, to Re- Dividends, off Re- Re-
serves. serves, serves.
June, 1899 - £23,818
Dec., 1899 £5600 £l6Ol 8 p.c. = £5250 25,/69
June, 1900 5581 663 8 „ „ 5250 26,763
Dec.. 1900 5518 736 8 „ „ 5250 27,767
June, 1901 5445 40 8 „ „ 5250 28,002
Dec., 1901 5480 8 ~ „ 5250 £BO 28,152
June, 1902 5507 13,097 8 „ „ 5250 411506
Dec., 1902 3988 2894 8 „ „ 5250 43,138
June, 1903 2583 - 6 „ „ 3938 190 41,593
Dec., 1903 2665 500 6 ~ „ 3938 40,820
The reserves consist of insurance reserve £33,760, equali-
sation of dividend reserve (drawn upon again this half
year to the extent of £1313) £7021, and Undivided profit
£39. For the whole year, though 6 per cent, was paid, the
business profits amounted to hardly 4 per cent. ; the
other 2 per cent, came out of reserves. The reserves,
except £5210, are all used in the business. With the
return of the northern cow and pumpkin-vine to their
old prolific habits things may be expected to look up
with this co.
* * * *
The Queensland Meat Export and Agency
00. :
Dividends and Added to Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1895 5 p.c. = £5,750 £32,620
1896 .. £1,040 Nil £1,040 33,660
1897 .. 8,189 Nil 8,189 41,849
1898.. 11,011 Nil 11,011 52,860
1899.. 47,340 10 p.c. =£11,474 35,866 88,726
1900.. 75,050 10 „ „ 11,474 63,576 152,302
1901.. 39.48 Q 10 „ „ 11,474 . 28,006 180,308
1902.. 72,308 20 „ ~ 22,949 49,359 229,667
Forfeited Capital Added to Reserves 240 229,907
1903 .. 52,793 10 p.c. = 11,474 41,319 271,226
The reserves consist of reserve fund £105,000 (unaltered
from previous year), renewals, replacement and depreci-
ation reserve £75,274 (an increase of £31,930 in the year),
and undivided profit £90,952. The turnover has, of
course, been much less than usual ; the figures for the
past four years have been :
Cattle. Sheep.
1900 .. .. 73,412 64,024
1901 .. .. 74,300 75,000
1902 .. .. 65,542 119,242
1903 .. .. 44,977 6,649
During the year the co. has plunged in station properties;
in 1902 this line, including cattle, represented £17,193 ;
at the end of 1903 it stood tor £146,511. Practically the
whole of these transactions have been on credit, with the
result that, apart from drafts on consignments, the co.
has now overdrafts and other liabilities of £171,916 where
12 months previously it had only £46,783. It was a pretty-
heavy responsibility to take, especially upon horrowed
money, secured apparently on the co.’s assets ; though as
the season has turned out so well and as the meat
market is very firm, the speculation will most likely
prove good.
• • * ♦
The N.S.W. Shale and Oil Co. (Sydney)
Applied
Written to Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1897.. £519 Nil £519 £741
June, 1898.. 284 Nil 284 1025
Dec., 1898.. 591 2} p.c. = £833 783
June, 1899.. 625 Nil £3OO 325 1108
Loss. Deficit.
Dec., 1899.. 1575 Nil 467
June, 1900.. 432 Nil . — ...— 899
Dec., 1900.. 382 Nil 1281
Profit. Reserves.
June, 1901.. 2128 Nil 812 1316 35
Dec., 1901.. 474 Nil 474 509
Loss. Deficit.
June, 1902.. 1073 Nil 564
Profit. Reserves.
Dec., 1902.. 662 Nil 662 98
June, 1903.. 107 Nil 107 205
Dec., 1903.. 1198 Nil 1198 1403
After a run of very hard luck this looks a little more
cheerful. The co. is, however, very heavily loaded with
debt; apart from overdraft and sundry cre . d, j°” pr ®'
senting £‘17,703, debentures to the value of £25,000 are
outstanding. Still, the latter have been reduced by
£2500 in the past six months, and that is a move the right
way The m. has made fair-sized contracts for some
little distance ahead but at a lower price than has been
got hitherto.
* * * *
Another black-and-yellow and white labor com-
parison. Roodepoort (Rand) ore averages 10 49dvU
Scottish. Gympie (Q.), 10'09dwt. Roodepoort has the
advantage of very much softer ore, putting through
19,085 tons with an average of 52 stamps, wb'te the
Scottish can only manage 20,300 tons auth 125 stamp •
Yet it costs the Roodepoort 265. 11 14d - P® r fc °"’
the Scottish-Gympie does it for 18s. 2 52d. So white
brains and white muscle win hands down.
(Continued on page 30.)


DAVID JONES & COMPANY’S
Great Midsummer Sale
MEN’S
MERCERY
xmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmrn
PEPT.
' 30 doz. WHITE MAT TENNIS SHIRTS—
Usual Price, 4/6 ... - Sale Price, 3/11 each
All our Season’s PRINT SHIRTS, Stiff Fronts,
Square Cuffs—
Usual Price, 6/6 Sale Price, 5/6 each
. 2nd Quality PRINT SHIRTS, Stiff Fronts,
Square Cuffs—
Usual Price, 5/6 Sale Price, 4/9 each
All our 5/9 CRIMEAN SHIRTS, Collar and
Pocket ... Sale Price, 4/6 each
A Line of CAMBRIC TUNIC SHIRTS—
k ' Sale Price, 5/6 each
REDUCTIONS in All Departments.
COHPLETE SALE CATALOGUES Post Free.
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney
ĥ
ħ
7/y
r/y
w
a
NO\
-
Beware
Imitations*
s f*ADe
h
/AARfj:
SOCIETY
Banadurn
club
W[?]
Little boy (looking at the star-studded
sky): “Look! See the decorations which have
been bestowed upon God for his services to
royalty 1 ” — SimpMcissimus (German).
■** » »
They say in Westralia that Senator Stewart
is descended from the royal Stewarts. Which, if
true, shows the ascent of man. From a king to a
Radical Senator ! It would prove evolution.
» • * *
Lord Northcote has done one service to
the Empire: he has proved that the British
aristocracy can produce a smaller man than the
Dukelet of York.
• • • •
A daily paper:—“Many hundreds of
medals and clasps gained by N.S.W. men who
served in the Boer war have been lying for
months awaiting delivery.”
The heroes of the Boer war
Have not their medals claimed.
Thess tidings vve are thankful for—
At last they are ashamed !
THE COST OF UNDRESS.
HE: “ What! Twenty pounds for that! Seems
to me the less you women put on the more
you spend.”
Victorian clerics are holding a sort of
informal referendum on the question'of allowing
Scripture teaching in the State schools. Voters
before saying “yes” to the proposed innovation
should study the results of Scripture teaching in
the N.S.W. schools. The N.S.W. teacher used
to give a Scripture lesson adapted from the Bible,
but it was objected that that gave an opportunity
for his personal sectarian prejudices to be intruded.
So teachers were ordered to give out to the pupils
the Bible, impure and unadulterated, and the
consequences in mixed classes are embarrassing.
The safest course is that now ruling in Victoria—
to leave religion absolutely out of the school
routine. Religion, after all, is the churches’ busi-
ness and not the State’s.
“F.": Wondered why so many ancient
fentlemen, apparently' members of the N.S.W,
Fpper House, held frequent informal caucuses in
the Sydney Palace Gardens, in the summer time.
Found the explanation in a long flight of stone
steps, passing down which weregirlsinsummer.cos-
tumes with thedeclining sun blazing behind them.
* * » «
Theiiew Gov.-General, via his A.D.C., on
arrival spread the usual dose of jam over Australia.
To the reporters hanging around Government
House front door, agog for his first impressions
about the place, he said :—•
Their Excellencies were delighted with the way the
people of Melbourne received them. They thought
that the landing at St. Kilda was an exceedingly
picturesque ceremony, and the drive along St. Kilda road
had pleased them extremely. As a city Melbourne im-
presses them with its importance, being far larger than
they had anticipated.
And so on. It will be an awful shock to Melbourne
someday, when a Governor with a liver that’s been
churning for six weeks on the ocean, and has got too
stiff to be polite, uses some plain language about
keeping a respectable elderly man dodging about
on a gunboat, and landing him in an out-of-the-
way little watering place, giving him a long dusty
drive, so as to allow various fat little mayors to
air themselves in his presence at various stages,
and their wives to throw cabbages at his wife in
the vice-regal carriage. That Governor won’t be
popular.
• • * *
W. T. Stead’s latest London venture is
The Daily Paper. It’s to be run largely on the
given-away-with-a-pound-of-tea principle. Those
who pay a guinea a year (or two shillings a month)
will get the paper delivered at home free by one
of a brigade of young girl messengers (who are to
deliver the paper and to receive any suggestions
for its improvement from subscribers), a portfolio
of colored piotures, the Review of Reviews and
some other monthly, and the use of a local contre
as a club for various purposes. When the
project was mooted there was a very heated
discussion in various religious and semi-religious
quarters as to the moral danger incurred by the
young girl messengers who were to call at houses
to deliver the paper: unscrupulous men, it was
pointed out, might subscribe for the worst of
motives, and offer the worst of suggestions. A
very cute advertiser is-Mr. Stead !
* * * ♦
Once in the Dim Remote the Hebrew
community in an Australian capital was much
scandalised by the unseemly doings of a Gentile
girl who beoame an alleged convert to the
faith and married a wealthy gentleman.
She was larky and yellow-haired from
the first, and from being only a
tall person with a suspicion of
hair-dye she developed in-
to a first-class scoffer.
The climax came when
she tore from the door
the bit of parchment
with the sacred texft
upon it and threat-
ened, if it were re-
placed, to nail a pork
chop on top of it.
She gathered in most
of her husband’s
money before he died
and made Judaism a
thing of mirth in the
household. When
she was left a widow
she became plain
Gentile again, and
ate the ham of back-
sliding in public.
That was a Ilong
time ago, and
Judaism lost sight
of her for years.
It has now learned
that she married a
Gentile, who
whacked her, and
lost the old Jewish
husband’s money to
other Jews on the
racecourse, and then
left her a widow the
second time—a very hard-up widow whose account
with the Badly Chosen People is about square now.
Everything comes to him who waits, and Moses
and Aaron can afford to wait. Theirs is a tough
race, and Time blunts its teeth on the three
golden balls and the bookmaker’s bag.
* • • •
Not long ago a prominent Bendigo J.P.
was about to sentence two accused persons, a man
and a woman. Occurred to him to ask 'the prose-
cuting sergeant if anything was known of the
prisoners. “ Yes, y’r wushup,” said Mr. Ser-
geant, whipping over the record book; “one
of them has been three times charged with being a
common street-walker.” “Eli ! —what’s that?
Which one?” Sergeant (solemnly): “The
woman, y’r wushup.”
* * -)* *
, S.M. Herald prints a par. side-headed,
“ The Kaiser’s Cussedness.” Mr. James !
• • * *
Sydney Homoeopathic Hospital struggles
along on the basis of voluntary subscriptions. It
put through 574 patients last year, and will con-
tinue the voluntary basis, though the loaves and
fishes of Government subsidy tempt longing eyes.
IN THE UNDRESSING ROOM.
1ST. HUSSAR: “ What did you do before you took
to the stage?”
2ND. HUSSAR : “Minded my own business.”
“Pucha”: The Maoriland love of holi-
days is often a subject of attack by the virtuous,
seldom or never of defence by the wicked.
Holidays and not work are life; holidays are
sacred things. In the darker ages (the Puri-
tanical ones), holiday-making was a thing
accursed. Men worked blindly. By cramping
the healthy enjoyment of life, Puritanism leads
directly to greed. R. L. Stevenson observed it
of Scotland, but the remark is true the world
over. Combine Puritanism and modern com-
mercialism, and you promote the least happiness
of the greatest number. When men are sensible
enough to demand high wages, they soon learn to
depjand short hours and frequent holidays. All
this talk about the dignity of labor is unavailing.
Let a man try walking, cycling, fishing, or, say,
sitting under a tree and smoking. Let him try it
for a week, and, if possible, for a fortnight, and
then let him candidly answer if holiday-making is
not the nobler gospel.
Some poor creature writes in an English
weekly—a popular working-man’s penny weekly,
too :
Some little time ago, it was my great privilege to be
included in a group photograph in which His Majesty
the King figured. I was one of a house party* which the
King honored by joining for a brief space. It may be
taken for granted that when His Gracious Majesty con-
sents to be one of a group photograph, he does so only
on the absolute understanding that the personages with
w'hom he is taken are above reproach from a social and
from various other standpoints.
There’s not much hope for a country when that
can be written —and published in a people’s paper.
Now that smallpox has broken-out
over the water, even the devoutest Van -
demonian feels rest fully glad that the
medical officer has been given such full
Eowers in the matter of Tasmania’s public
ealth. The Launceston outbreak, with
its tangle of hateful blunders made by
ignorant or prejudiced officialdom disgusted
everyone with the old trumpery order.
The powers conferred by the new Health
Act are delight-fully complete. The thing
it cannot do, when it becomes necessary to
suppress another epidemic, has yet to be dis-
covered. Curiously, the bitterest opponent
of the new health law in the Assembly was
an undertaker.
• * * *
Machinery is now entering into com-
petition with the coal-hewer. The Pelaw
Main Colliery (N.S.W.) recently put in coal-
cutting machines, and all the miners have
been discharged, with an offer of re-employ-
ment as fillers, wheelers, surface hands, &c.,
at 7s. a day. As the men were previously
earning 12s. a day, the drop is a big one.
* * * *
The new coupon system for the tele-
phones in N.S.W. (by which non-subscribers
were to be made to pay threepence for the
use of a subscriber’s machine, the subscriber
getting one-third and the Postal Dept, the
other two-thirds of the amount) hasn’t
turned out a success as yet. So far, not
one application has been made for admis-
sion to the “ coupon list,” but, if the Dept,
carries out its threat to suddenly close down
on any subscriber who allows a deadhead
to use his instrument, it will perhaps make
a difference.
* » * *
Woman’s intense admiration for the
bookmaker, the financier, and the Stock
Exchange man, has often been noted. It is
the natural development of her old love for
a predatory mate. When tails were just
going out of fashion for human wear, woman
gave her young affections to the suitor who
could hunt and rob best—that was a natural
instinct leading her to comfort and the race
to betterment; now predatory methods have
changed, but woman’s nature proves eternal.
* * * *
A Melbourne clerk wails in the Argus
that. thousands of clerks are compelled to
slave in Victoria for £1 and 15s. a week
and that they are supposed to dress well
and pay their just debts. The clerk has
mostly himself to blame. Often he is more
stupidly Tory than the man who graciously
gives him 15s. a week. Let him try trades-
unionism.
Mr. James Graham was not a particularly
brilliant success as Mayor of Sydney, but the
clean section of the public would be glad to see
him back again, if only to enforce the anti-spitting
by-law, which of late has been entirely ignored
in Sydney streets.
• • * •
Down the South Coast (N.S.W.) there is
a farm of 20 acres carried on entirely by three
orphan spinsters. The baby has just turned 75.
They dig, chop, milk, sow, reap, and slaughtei
without man’s assistance. No doctor has been
called in since a measles epidemic of 20 years ago.
♦ • * *
“ G.R.” : The disappearance of the male
public-school teacher in Maoriland and every
other land (8., 14/1 /’O4) is due to the low salaries
paid to teachers. To be employed in a sweated
profession is a sort of disgrace. The schools need
the best intellects of both sexes, but you can’t feed
intellect on bread-and-dripping pay.
WHEN DOWIE COMES.
BUTCHER: “It’s not a bit of use you bringing
those things to me, Dr. Sawbones. I’ve had
the offer of every, case of instruments in
Macquarie-street since the arrival of Elijah.”
From the Argus, Tuesday, January 26
Recently Mrs. R. Flint, a young woman, gave birth to
triplets. A friend communicated with the Lieutenant-
Governor. He sent £3 in recognition of Mrs. Flint's
praiseworthy efforts.
“ Praiseworthy efforts ”is distinctly good. Is it
the Argus or Mr. Madden who is responsible ?
TO PHYLLIS SMOKING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two red lips and two soft fingers
And a cigarette between,
And the curling smoke that lingers
Where the cigarette has been.
Still, though banished from her lips,
Happy on her finger-tips.
Two bright eyes with glance pathetio,
Seem appealingly to say—
“ Don’t deny that it’s Aesthetic,"
Be its morals what they may.
Ah, she knows, the sweet coquette,
How to use a cigarette.
Some fine day, I wonder whether—
Not just now, but by-and-bye—
We’ll be smoking one together,
Just as an economy.
And if all the smoke goes missing ?-
Why, then, there is always kissing 1
HARRY TOWER.


At the request of numerous customers I have
decided to keep my saloon open all day on Wed-
nesdays and close at 1 o’clock on Saturdays. T.
Wild, hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney—the
Arcade that runs from George-street to King-st.’'
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
BILE
ft
r
Troubles.
The Sydney daily papers record a secret
meeting of employers to discuss the Arbitration
Act against which there is just now an organised
campaign by capitalism—and forget to say any-
thing severe about the employers excluding the
press. . What is a sin in trie Labor party is a
virtue in the Loaf party. It is rumored that the
meeting agreed upon inaugurating a series of
little “lock-outs,” to test the efficiency of the
Act and the degree of irritation against it which
can be aroused.
Some N.S.YV. employers have, or profess to
have, curious ideas as to the Arbitration Act.
One big Sydney hotelkeeper, the other day,
trumpeted through the press that, in consequence
of the Act, he intended to shut up his dining-
rooms, and to dismiss all his boarders. The last
would be a quite supererogatory sacrifice. No
award of the Arbitration Court, so far given,
affects hotelkeepers, except where they carry on a
restaurant business. If an hotelkeeper confines his
catering to his boarders lie does not come under
the operations of the common rule promulgated
by the court on the application of the Hotel, Club,
Restaurant, and Caterers’ Employees’ Union.
Further if that hotelkeeper “dismisses his
boarders” and makes his business a purely drink-
selling one, he will run up against the Licensing
Act, with probably great damage to himself. As
a licensed victualler his contract with the State
binds him to provide food and lodging for the
travelling public. It is a cruel thing, Socialistic
legislation, and very hampering to private enter-
prise. All. hotelkeepers should unite to put it
down —beginning with the restrictive law which
prevents anyone from competing in their business
of liquor-selling.
» * « ♦
N.S.W. Arbitration Act is really in some
danger from the slanderous campaign against it
in the daily press ; and the workers should make
a special effort to rally to its help. If the law in
regard to wife-beating were attacked every day in
the newspapers; if every case of wife-beating
were cited as a proof that the law was useless, and
every hoodlum at the’same time urged to wallop
his old woman just to vindicate his independence,
there would probably be quite a lot of bruised
female in the community ; for, after all, it’s public
opinion as much as the policeman that guards the
Eeace.. The Tory newspapers, and the Sydney
>.T. in particular, are doing their utmost to
encourage the people to break the Arbitration
law, and their efforts are having some effect.
• * « *
S.M. Herald had the decency to announce,
Wednesday of last week, that the Teralba strike
was collapsing. TheD.T. still keeps it alive, as a
“ reason ” against Arbitration. The Newcastle
miners, generally, to their credit, refuse to give
any sympathy to the men who blaok-legged on an
Arbitration award.
PROPER PRECAUTION.
RACHEL: “ Vy, vat ’re you doin’ mit the poy,
Ithrael?”
ISRAEL: “ Goin’ to put him in the safe, my tear—
he’s svallowed a tiamond.”
Transportation of criminals from England
to New South Wales ceased in 1840, to Queens-
land in 1849 (the contingent from Sydney Harbor),
to Van Diemen’s Land (now Tasmania) in 1853,
to Western Australia in 1808, No criminals were
ever transported to Victoria. An employer in
Van Diemen’s Land wrote in 1850 to a friend in
England: “Even in our small menage our cook
has committed murder, our footman murder, and
our housemaid bigamy.” The total number of
British convicts to Australia from 1788 until 1808
was 131,101; of these 110,842 were males and 20,319
females. It was about this time Charles Lamb
used to write to his friend Baron Field asking
affectionately “how the hemp crop was getting
on,” and if the colonists didn’t find it dull having
nothing to do but picking one another's pockets.
Cape Colony escaped the taint of convictism
(although proclaimed a penal colony in 1849) by
the struggle in 1850 against the unloading of the
Neptune convicts. The ship lay from September,
1849, to February, 1850, in Simon’s Bay, and then
proceeded to Tasmania.
ONE FOR JOHN.
LADY: “ Have you any carrots?”
LADY: “Nave you any parsnips? ”
LADY: "Have you anything in the cart at all?"
JOHN: “ No, Missee ; no callots.”
JOHN: “No parsnipee.”
JOHN: “ Oh, yes, Missee, got ’em horse.”
“ Melb.” : The Burns statue unveiling
was mulled. A gentleman named Gibb was put
up as a speaker, and read for about half-an-hour
off foolscap. Just so much dough dumped on the
crowd, and he never “got a hand.” Madden looked
like Shakspeare, and talked like Poor Poll. You
could scarcely hear him half-a-dozen ranks away.
Why not Deakin or Trenwith ? M'Eacharn got
a bit of a snap on, with a speech, but of course
could not say aught about the soul of the thing.
» * * *
Review of Reviews for Australia has not
gained by the exchange of editors: <me rev. and
reckless Tory slanderer of Australian ideals seems
to have been replaced by another. Editorial
comment in last issue on the Kanaka not at
Bundaberg :
It is difficult, under the circumstances, to imagine the
Kanakas doing other than they did. Already a section
of the press is urging the incident as a reason for a White
Australia. This is arguing from false premises. It
simply proves the existence in our midst of some whites
who are undesirables.
The Tory attitude in a nutshell; if the white
Australian can’t live in peace with the black
man, then deport the white.
* * * •
The low state of the Melbourne matrimonial
market had evidence enough (if any doubting
Thomas required it) in the swarm of girls
that descended on the South Wharf the
other day to see a bachelor medico weigh
anchor for the island of abrupt eruptions.
The darlings positively wept in many
cases, and when they didn’t weep they
wiped away a sigh. The sight of so
much sorrowful girl at the young man’s
departure suggested years of cruel
separation, of banishment perhaps to
some St. Helena where he would suffer
solitary existence on the Rock of Despair.
Yet he was merely passing hence for a
few weeks to go geyser-hunting in Maori-
land, and the tears were probably evoked
by the thought that one of the enemy
might capture him there. The young
man, it needn’t be mentioned, is abnormally
rich.
It takes a globe-trotter to make sure of
her man. The latest idea is to have a
betrothal photograph taken. You thus nail the
man down to the counter.
* * * •
Death of Graham Berry recalls the cham-
pion mean act of any Australian Parliament.
Like all other men who devoted themselves
absolutely to politics, Berry amassed no money,
indeed made no money. He worked 16 hours a
day for his country at a living wage, and when old
age and the cold glance of the constituencies fell
on him hp found himself poor. Victorian Parlia-
ment had just enough grace to recognise the call
to do something for its old servant, to know that
he couldn’t be left to beg at the street corners, and
made him the gift of a small annuity—£soo
a year to be exact—and then smirched what
should have been an act of grace with loathly
meanness by restricting the annuity to the old
man’s life. He had a wife who had borne him
children, and his declining days must have been
embittered by the thought that with his death her
livelihood failed. Man and wife are one ; to feed
one and to starve the other is to starve both. But
practically that is what the Victorian Parliament
did —assured for Berry his loaf, but carefully
stipulated that, should she survive him, there was
to be no loaf for Mrs. Berry. Even now it is not
too late to redeem in some measure that graceless
meanness by making provision for the dead states-
man’s widow.
Next to Mr. Reid trying to be funny the
most pathetic sight in the Commonwealth is
owned by Launceston (Tas.). The local authori-
ties advertise, among the wonders they have to
show to visitors, “ a small collection of wild
animals'’ in the public gardens. There is one
large brown bear, very frayed at the edges ; one
fancy colored baboon, moping by himself ; one
cage of ring-neck doves, and one of Australian
birds, mostly white cockatoos (no longer white);
a kangaroo or so ; an occasional emu, and a few
other poor unfortunates, with here and there a
dilapidated empty cage. But the most pathetic
exhibit is hidden away in one corner, where no one
ever seems to go. The cage is a large affair; the
sides and roof are wire netting, built round two
stumps, whereon perch four of the most miser-
able, woe-begone and moulty eagles that ever
were hatched. In one corner is a small shelter
shed, while all round is the blessed air and free-
dom-separated from them by thin wire. Now
and then the wretched prisoners glance at you
vacantly, but ever their eyes wander to the top of
the cage, trying to unravel the mystery of the
almost invisible wire that lets the air to them,
but keeps them from the air.
• * * *
There is virtue, it seems, even in shoddy.
The Hospital points out that modern dress fabrics
which wear out in a little while are much less
likely to spread disease than the old-fashioned
silks and laces and cloths, handed down from
generation to generation.
“Burglar Bill” (who naturally takes a
professional interest in the subject):
Administration of the system of identification by
flnff er prints should not be placed in charge of the
ordinary police and prison officials. Rather, a large-
minded, brainy expert should be put in charge of the
working of the system of identification. The man who
has spent his life in the police or prison service has
a natural longing for a conviction which makes him
totally unfitted for the work. He would insensibly work it
in the interest of convictions.
# * * *
In the Transvaal now the Royal coat of
arms is mottoed “ Jew et non droit.”
A Sydney man tells of a weird experience
on the southern mail. He had tipped the porter,
hoping to monopolise a compartment, but soon
heard a woman’s voice asking if he were the only
occupant. She wasn’t bad looking. She came in
and expressed a hope that “ they should have the
carriage to themselves as far as Albury.” Then
after a chat she said “it was time to turn in, and
before he could hurl himself out of the window
she had commenced to take her hair down.
“ When she started to unfasten her front buttons,
he goes on, “I swooned away. On recovering
consciousness I noticed she had donned a little
pink jacket and was engaged in pulling off her
boots. She asked if I was ready to have the light
out, and stood upon the seat and pulled the night-
cap over the lamp. Then she lay down, spread
her rug over her, and said ‘ Good night.’ And only
then I felt safe. In the morning she took her spare
hair and other fixings into the lavatory, and
presently emerged in full rig. When subse-
quently expostulating with the porter, he smd,
‘Didn’t you know her? Why, that was M's.
, the woman’s rights lecturer.’ ” . And that
man begins to think there is something in women’s
rights after all.
• • *
A special reporter of Reynolds’ News-
paper (London) gives a gloomy account of Cosme
settlement: —
As a Socialistic settlement Cosme is a failure ; as a
settlement under Communistic principles Cosme is a
fraud. Prom the start it has been kept going only with
the money brought in by individuals who had come from
England ‘and Australia, and who, having parted with
their money, found that the whole show is owned ana
ruled by a small clique. Cosme is not even a Democratic
settlement, let alone Socialistic. Cosme, as it is at
present, is just an estate belonging to the Lane family.
William Lane owns the land, and the colony owes him
10,585d015. ; John Lane is chairman and practically ruler
of the colony ; Ernest Lane (another brother recently
arrived at Cosme) helps to make up the members of the
family ; five or six men of the pioneer type serve as
hangers-on to the Lanes ; and the rest are nowhere.
• • ♦ *
Australia is evidently a sanatorium for
siok Governors-General. Lord Hopetoun was an
invalid returned to this country for the benefit
of his health, which had been so delicate that
when he formerly made his debut, as Governor of
Victoria, he fainted from the fatigue of his first
levee. Lord Northcote carried his arm in a sling
(rheumatism) within a week of his arrival at
Melbourne.
FROM HIS POINT OF VIEW.
FANNY: “ I’m sure it’s the prettiest hat in
Sydney.”
FREDDY: “ Oh, very likely; but it’s a fool of a
thing to take a fellow down to Manly in.”
Canon Boyce, discussing the site of the
Rev. Johnson’s wattle and dab church, the first
erected in Sydney, says it was built out of John-
sjn’s pocket. But Johnson’s handwriting shows
he did not consider the expense his, and, on the
Governor refusing to pay the bill, he dunned the
Colonial Office until the cash was re-paid to him.
That first Sydney church was thus paid for by the
British taxpayer.
STORY-TELLERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We writers share this common lot with Fate :
Give us a book of many stainless pages
And we shall write like world-experienced sages
Of man, his love, his hopes, his hate ;
But, smilingly, Oblivion, man’s friend,
Consigns our work to darkness in the end.
And so, when Fate a new existence spies,
She straightway writes a sweet or bitter story—
No new thing in it, but a repetition hoary
Of ancient love and laughter, sobs and sighs ;
It matters not, for in the end comes Death
And wipes her story out with one fell breath.
RODERIC QUINN.
IN THE HOSPITAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
H.S.W
The narrow beds in silent row
Shone white beneath the moon ;
The night nurse moving to and fro
Hummed an old dancing tune.
The city’s din was faint and far,
Yet there were some could hear
The noise of theatre and bar,
And glasses clinking cheer.
They dimmed the light above his head,
The nurse beside him stayed,
They put the red screen round his bed—
We shuddered and we prayed.
And when down that long corridor
Dawn walked with rosy bloom,
Two wardsmen on a stretcher bore
A dead man from the room
V.J.D.
SANCTUARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Perchance the night is but the magic closing
Of some vast flower in sleep,
Beneath whose mighty dome the earth’s reposing
Is infinitely deep.
And maybe Dawn is but the blossom waking,
With petals upward curled,
'Neath which the outer glory inward breaking
To Day transforms the world.
<l.
LALA FISHER.


CHERRY
BRANDY
ASK FOR
Peter F. Heering’s
Miss Helena Rubenstein (says the Australasian),
who has rooms at 243 Collins-street, Melbourne, is intro-
ducing the new skin food, known as “Valaze,” prepared
by Dr. Lykushi. the famous Russian skin specialist. It is
claimed by the inventor and Miss Rubenstein from expe-
rience—that if the instruction given in her book be fol-
lowed, anyone disfigured by wrinkles, freckles, or any
skin blemish whatever, will be delighted with the results
obtained after a course of treatment. An advantage of
“ Valaze ” is that it does not remain on the surface of the
skin, where it can be seen, but is absorbed, and creates a
healthy condition, the result being that looseness is re-
moved, and the skin made firm and healthy. Miss
Rubenstein declares “ Valaze ” to be absolutely the only
genuine imported skin food. Her little work is illustrated
by a number of diagrams, showing the method of apply-
ing the food. Further particulars will be found in our
advertising columns.*
A woman’s crowning glory is no longer her
hair—it’s her figure when encased in a P.D. corset
mould. The male connoisseur doesn’t turn his head
because of a stray chestnut ringlet under a flash millinery
design, but he does turn, and, with a yearning eye,
follow the lovely figure that boasts poetic lines, and is,' in
fact, the embodiment of beauty by the grace of a P.D.
shape. If all women only knew its magic ! The stout
may be made lean, and the scraggy develop curves
through the agency of a P.D. Varieties. There are
over a hundred of them, from the trifling ribbon
and lace and whalebone of a mere waist
supporter for a naturally shapely figure to the
heavily boned and steeled work of art that is the
salvation of the bulky marm. With but just a little
judicious care and the correct measurement of the form,
the right P.I). is selected, and if the fair and inexpressive
divinity can’t look like a Venus de Medici or the modern
equivalent for the classic Grace she’s not worth the lace
she’s tied in. For, now the P.D. manufacturers have de-
termined out of pure philanthropy to help towards the
moulding of all female physical grace, and if the average
She neglects to look too sweet for anything in a straight-
fronted, spring-hip, grip-evervwhere P.D., its because of
her own foolishness. Or perhaps she is a Christian
Ehdeavorer, who would rather mankind bilious than
amorous. But the healthy-minded, moderately co-
quettish woman takes to her P.D. as a duckling takes
to water.*
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
ĥ
“GRAVEN ETTES"
§ty llsK
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 2, 1904.
My Dear Arini.—
Miss Crossley, now about arriving at the Cape,
gave her Kalgoorlie concert in an iron shed with
the temperature at 130 or so. Other of her achieve-
ments were standing godmother to the child of a
former associate of hers in Dr. Strong’s Australian
choir, and attending a crabbing picnic near Perth,
and a wild ride on a Fire Brigade’s steam engine.
Minister Kingsmill and wife gave the picnic, and
Ada caught crabs all day in the raging heat of sun
and a bush fire. Party returned to Perth nigh to
midnight, the town being brilliantly illuminated
from the fire burning on Mt. Eliza.
There is sometimes another explanation than
the simple one of ‘ ‘ lie ” to the break-down,
under cross-examination of a girl’s story (the
sort of story that is best left without too close
a description), a correspondent claims in a letter,
and gives in proof her personal experience. She
(a type-writer) Was passing through a park at
night on the way home from her office—a rush of
work had kept the staff late—when she was
confronted by a blackmailer, who threatened
arrest for “indecorous behavior” if she did not
pay him. Too courageous to be frightened that
way, she called for help, and subsequently
reported the. case to the police. An officer was
detailed to investigate, and, so she states, his
conduct was not above suspicion, and finally
ended in a bullying threat that she had better
confess “ her story was all lies.” And that was
all the satisfaction she got. “ A retraction,” she
concludes, “may sometimes have just as little
value as a confession which is torn from a victim
on the rack.”
Supposing this grievance well-founded, it is
scandalous that the police should spare any
humanly possible effort to track down so dastardly
an offender as the blackmailer. Scandalous it is,
too, that municipal sloth seals the parks in so
many of the big cities against decent wayfarers
after nightfall. A few police and a good few
lamps would open up many a delightful walk.
Ihe parks should be as safe to women at night as
are the streets.
As are the streets ? Yes. For the streets, to
womenfolk who have need to pass through them
and are wise enough to go about their business
without dawdling, are “safe” any hour of the
night. Very rarely indeed will a woman who
walks briskly and alertly be addressed by a
stranger. If she is, hersilence is take*) as a sufficient
snub in all cases but one of a million. The infesting
of the streets by herds of wild men seeking whom
they may devour is, in Australia at any rate, a
figment of the imagination. Of course, there are
individual brutes, but it is only with very hard
luck that one would run across them. The parks
are different; but shouldn’t be. Now that woman
laS vote > a good, practical use to put it to
would be to agitate to open up the parks after
night-fall to decent citizens. The freedom of
the city parks these hot summer nights would be
something worth winning.
Miss Vinia de Loitte, who plays the French
girl, Fifi, in the Williamson “Belle of New York”
combination, now at the Royal, has some personal
i n terest. Some weeks ago Syd neysid ers com men ted
upon a death notice in the local press: “Adams.—
Jan. 17, at Fernlea, Balmain, Lavinia Amelie (nee
Oomtesse de Vilme-Hautemont), beloved wife and
rf ng * 1 J of the household ’ for 58 years of R.
i Adams.” The deceased lady was Miss
de Loitte s grandmother, and it was to
get news of her (Mrs. Adams’) whereabouts
that the Queen of Roumania wrote to
Mr. I honias Hughes, the Mayor of Sydney, some
months back. The Roumanian Queen and the
Oomtesse were girls together, and after the latter
married (a run-away match—Mr. Adams is related
to me Earl of Carnarvon’s family) and came to
Australia, they corresponded for some years. Lord
Rosebery was also another correspondent of the
late Mis. Adams, who seems to have been one of
the most retiring of women. The de Loitte
family must now be in its third or fourth
generation in Sydney. It is an old line
for a young country. Miss Vinia de Loitte,
by the way, plays and sings her coquettish r6le
with the sprightlmess and archness of a girl born
in Baris rather than at Snail’s Bay. I first heard
her with the Liedertafel many months ago—she
then sang something from “ Semiramade,” and as
an encore “Angels ever Bright and Fair,” and I
was impressed with the crystalline quality of her
voice, and the feeling with which she produced it.
Her range is from lower middle C to D in
f lfc - Mr. Woodhouse was her teacher. She
herself (although she does not look more than
20 years of age) has been teaching for three
years.
The boarding-house lady who made “a good,
wholesome tomato sauce,” but which her boarders
would not touch until she put a faked French
name on it, has her parallel in a girl who in a
letter to me tells of her struggles to “ get on ” and
of her achievement through a French alias. She
is the eldest of a family of eight and at the age of
16 went to look for work. She answered an
advertisement fpr milliner’s apprentice only, to
hud she would have to servesixmonthsfor nothing.
Same with dress-making. Nothing open to her
but service. She easily got a situation at Bs. a
week and stopped in it 18 months. Owing
to the family’s removal she had to take another
billet, which she left at the end of the week rather
than say “Ma’am” instead of “Mrs. Jones” to
hey mistress—left mentally vowing that she would
call nobody ma’am and be nobody’s servant. She
would be. a waitress. There were many advts.
for waitresses. But on her applying she was
always met with “ And what experience have you
had ? ”
In despair she gave up the waitress business
and took another domestic service situation at
12s. a week, ma’amed her employer, and banked
every penny possible. Onafewof her “afternoons
out” she learnt the cleaning and dyeing business
for £l, then started on her own. She had =612 in
bank, and spent it on fitting up a shop, marked
“Miss , Cleaner and Dyer,” with a bunch of
elaborately-curled feathers and some gloves, in the
window. In a fortnight she was nearly broken;
no business of any worth. Then she risked all
her capital. Took a window on the opposite side
of the street, draped it wonderfully, and had gold-
lettered on the glass “ Madame La Rallee, French
Dyer and Cleaner. ” Now this enterprising young
person is doing so well that she may presently be
able to buy a motor car.
A Sydney girl confesses to having proposed to
such a nice young man—a bank clerk—lately.
This is leap-year. She proposed by letter, under
an assumed name, and mentioned that if rejected
“ she liked diamonds.” He replied rejecting her,
for her own good, on account of his many
objectionable qualities. Some of them: He
loathes domesticity, and poultry, a wood heap and
an axe. He would prefer to lie abed dreaming
bright dreams to doing a little gardening. He
flirts and gambles, is an insomniac, but when
asleep grinds his teeth all the time. Still if she
had a little capital he would not be averse to meet-
ing her. Regrets that she likes diamonds but
asks her to send along her size of glove.
How few women are so honorable as to give a
wooer a list of their bad qualities when he says
‘‘Will you?” Naughty things ! They let him find
them out when too late, after the sacrament has
joined them for the rest of their natural lives.
A citizen of no mean country township gave,
shortly before Christmas, a good subscription to
his local church. Soon afterwards his first son
was born. On Christmas day the usual hymn,
“Unto us a son is born” was inflicted on the
congregation. The citizen, who had been present,
waited on the minister and church-wardens at the
conclusion of the service, and gravely thanked
them for the honor they had done him in instruct-
ing the choir to sing a hymn so complimentary to
himself.
There is more in the “tights” of the panto-
mime and comic opera charmer than the public
wots of : legs are to be expected, of course ; saw-
dust stuffing, too, if the cynical are to be credited.
But it was news, to me at least, to learn that there
is much art in the dyeing of these aids to theatrical
beauty. “By a long and careful process of dip-
ping in the dye, tights are shaded so that they
become paler and paler in tint towards the feet.
This gives a tapering effect to the ankles.” Pre-
sumably, too, ladies who are extra modest, or wish
to appear so, may have an embarrassed blush dyed
into their tights.
The Melbourne jewellery firm that made the
diamond lyre-bird ornament presented to Ada
Crossley by the Melbourne musical profession
sent the warbler a handsome opal as a present
from themselves, but it was courteously returned.
“You see,” said Ada to an acquaintance,
“opals are unlucky, and I sent it back with
an explanation that my superstition would
not allow me to accept the gift. I pay no
heed to most superstitious beliefs. I will walk
under a ladder, or be one of 13, or commence a
journeyjon Friday, or doany thingelse on the list of
unlucky acts, but I am really superstitious about
opals. ”
There’s a deal of child mind study done in
Sydney. Some years ago Dr. Alan Carrol founded
the Association for Child Study in Australia, and
since then numerous branches have grown from the
main stem. I have stumbled into a few of their
meetings at odd times and have always come away
with a dazed feeling that I was never a child and
that the lady or gentleman reading the paper of
the evening must have been just such another kid as
was young Macaulay. (He was a fearsome infant.)
They dug so deep down and reached so far out,
and seemed so humorless and destitute of anec-
dote to point their logic. Talking of anecdotes, a
pretty, well-bred looking, little girl of seven or
so, with shabby shoes and in shabby, neat mourn-
ing clothes, wasstopped by abold-faced, bare-footed
girl- of about nine, oarrying milk-cans, with the
greetings—“’Ullo, I ain’t seen you for an aige.
Yous useter to be smarter than you are now.
Your father’s dead, aint he?” “Yes,” replied
the other, shrinking somewhat, “God is my
father now.” The milk carrier put down her
cans, sniffed scornfully, and remarked, as she
glanced over the little mourner's outfit, “Needn’t
brag. I know what stepfathers is. They won’t
spend much on yous.” The mind of a child is
rather like the way of Solomon’s serpent on a
rock, and the C.S. Associations don’t seem to
make any reliable charts of its route of thought.
That walking-stick, which may also be a sitting-
stick, is slowly, very slowly, coming into use.
Julius Knight had one at Anniversary races, last
week. At the recent cricket matches I saw a few
in active service—the iron point stuck in the turf
and a man above taking, at least, partial ease.
Couldn’t women contrive to make their sun-shades
serve the same purpose ? I’ve seen crowds of
women and girls at the various sports festivals
who looked “ready to drop” from too much
standing exercise. If their umbrella-handles were
built a little differently and much more strongly,
they could use them, as did Julius Rossi his stick,
for, no matter how fiercely the sun shines, they
dare not unfurl the sun shades for fear of angry
remonstrance from spectators behind.
Mrs. Oswald Watt (daughter of Mr. Justice
Williams, late of Melbourne) has had to undergo
an operation for appendicitis, and for some time
was in great danger. She is convalescing at some
English watering place. Miss Constance Dickson
(a niece of Miss Macdonald, principal of the
Ladies’Hostel, Sydney Uni.), who was out here
recently helping auntie in scholastic work, has
lately married an American named Row.
Miss Nora Long, the Maoriland soprano, gives
a concert, at Centenary Hall, next Tuesday, prior
to her departure for England and study. Mr.
Julius Knight thinks so much of Miss Long’s
voice that he is working to make the booking a
record. Mr. Sykes assists the triller with her
programme.
- The Hotel Australia is having an internal
decorative bath. Its ceilings are taking an opal
or pearl complexion and the authorities are look-
ing wildly for a suitable wall-paper.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Last week’s rush to sign the brand-new book
of the new lodgers at Government House was
brisker than the descent of Woman on a boom
bargain sale. The stream of humanity up the
drive started at the hour of breakfast and con-
tinued till the flunkeys drew in the door-mat for
the night. Any time of the afternoon the porch
was packed. Amusing to glance along the line of
waiting ones and mark the varied expressions.
The old society hand drew her glove off lazily and
looked bored. The thing had to be done. It was
a bore in itself, but the hanging about for the pen
was a deadlier bore. Outsiders, who never get
beyond Gov House porch, grew nervous under so
many eyes and smudged the book. The average
she wore a half-ashamed half-defiant look, as of
a cat caught in the act of stealing the cream.
“A printed injunction is suspended over the
Northcote book to the effect that all callers should
write their names clearly. Needless caution !
Does any anxious groveller ever fail to dot her i’s
in that volume? All the same, the women
whispered it was * nice ’of the Northcotes. Now,
of course, they can attribute a sound reason for
not appearing at any of the Tennyson shivoos.
‘ I used to scribble my name in such a disgraceful
fashion, my dear. Of course, it was beyond
deciphering. Frightfully careless of me, you
know.’ And so the old blot is scribbled out of the
family escutcheon.
“A shoal of pasteboards was also washed into
the Government House porch by the social tide
last week, so many swelled the current by a card
for Lady Knowles and for each of the new aides
of the suite. By the way, the interesting young
Englishwoman mentioned is a widow. Her hus-
band was Mr. Alfred Millington, an officer of
the Imperial Yeomanry, who was killed in the
early part of the S’African war—not a year
after the marriage. Lady Knowles still dresses
in subdued raiment.
“ The numerous public bodies who converged in
a special kow-tow to the new G.-G. at the V.R.
residence last-Thursday were given every oppor-
tunity to have a goodly wash of wine after the
speeches were fired off. An ample buffet provided
enough solid and liquid refreshment to banquet an
army after a day’s fasting. And it was called
‘ afternoon-tea ! ’ Officialdom smacks its lips and
talks praise of the new Excellency by the yard.
Besides, the little man commended himself nobly
to the numerous addressers by the easy, fluent,
apt style of his delivery of the speeches in reply.
“ Lady Norchcote is not going to miss anything.
During the grand official crawl the other day at
Government House she regarded the scene
from a near niche, and when the welcoming
batches returned to an upright position, and looked
like reasonable male beings again, she descended
upon them and smiled acknowledgments, and
took the hand of every man in the gathering. For
a ready flow of talk and easy, good-humored
smile, the G.G.’s wife beats the most popular of
her order to date —so thought the local aldermen
who worshipped the new star that day.
“The Waxellency’s back hair took an extra
kick when the Northcote aides hinted at the
radiant impressions his daughter—the g;em of the
collection—was making at Bombay. Miss Ruby’s
complexion tints, it seems, were admired, and
the ordinary run of pallid belles there are
as limp flannel flowers beside the radiant Mel-
bournienne. Of course, the aides didn’t run
into metaphor over the matter—for their kind
never run and never metaphor—but there was
quite sufficient said to make Mr. Madden happy.
“ She-travellers, arriving from home, scout the
idea of trained street-suits. The walking-skirts
they bring back with them are short—so short
that they don’t need to be held up at all. Scribe
met one of the returned wanderers on the block,
t’other morning, in crisp, blue-muslin of well-
covered design. Her short skirt stood well out,
inviting admiration of open-work hose and natty
shoes, and permitting a glimpse of two petti-
coats. The top layer, a plain, white-muslin slip,
with frill of same material as gown, was held out
from wearer’s ankles by a starchy, blue garment,
matching gown in color and furnished with
goffered frills. The decided hint of crinoline
tendency in the lower part of the toilet was in
snappy contrast with the sloping shoulders,
slipping-down sleeve-puffs, and pointed, pelerine-
effect of the bodice.
“ But belles, back from abroad, want to flourish
something more startling in the faces of dull
stay-at-homes than mere toilette-novelties. A
fiancee, of course, is the best souvenir of a voyage,'
but failing that, foreign mannerisms and weird
slang serve to astonish the natives fairly well.
Some travelled Australiennes have brought home
with them lately a queer lingo, alleged to be the
quintessence of ‘smartness.’ When their friends
met them on the mail-boat, the wanderers ran
from one welcoming group to another, squealing
rapturously, ‘Taste my tulips,’ i.e., ‘Kiss me!’
Two extra-naice sisters, not long from ’Orae, went
to view a friend’s trousseau t’other day. At the
sight of the lingerie they duetted, 4 What divvy
undies! ’
“Yet another high-stepping voyageuse has just
rejoined us, infected with the craze for leading a
pet-dog round the Block. It’s a pretty little tyke
and behaves well—for a dog. * Still, one can’t
expect Chesterfieldian conduct from a terrier.
“ Polo sets the fashionable world agog next
Thursday (4th), when the tournament starts
with the Chirnside Cup, at the Kooyong course.
“Something does coine, after all, to her who
waits. A lady who put in several years on a pro-
bation term, and murmured not at delay, received
the news of the death of her fiance not long ago.
She thought Fate was cruel, until the lawyers
sent along word that she was the chief beneficiary
under the will.
“ Appendicitis is out of fashion ; the thing was
so frightfully overdone. Surgeons now grapple
with an outbreak of tumor among their fair
patients. Latest arrivals from the Big Smoke
confirm the popularity of tumor among the
smartest.
‘ ‘ Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Lyon have taken up
fresh domestic quarters out at Heidelberg—the
place noted for its hills and its hospital for incur-
ables. Gordon Lyon, one remembers, was the
Beaucaire of giddy Melbourne in the Brassey days.
Now he is an exemplary father and hearth-loving
Benedict.
“The death of Colonel Bingham was sudden
news to most of Melbourne, though the Madden
family had known of his long illness and his sick
leave which necessitated a change to the Cold
Country from the tropical blazes of India. The
Colonel, when he left Melbourne two or three
years since, was rather alarmingly florid and thick
in the neck. Still the post in the tropics was a
promotion, and he went cheerfully to take it, in
company with his aesthetic and decorative wife, a
younger sister of Dame Madden. The couple
entertained all the smart Melbourne people who
put in at Bombay for any time, and Miss Ruby
Madden saw the first chapters of her Indian life
under their auspices.
“Did you ever notice the demure, angelic
expression of the giddy and promiscuous girl-flirt
once she settles down in the collar of matrimony ?
There’s one of her type at present in Melbourne;
her lowered eyelids, buttoned-up mouth, and un-
inviting hat shade, as she passes through Collins-
street, upsets the seriousness of all her old flames.
She looked an unkissed Sweet-and-Twenty at the
Mayoral reception the other night, and Society
marms twitted her proud spouse on burdening so
young a thing with the cares of a house-
hold, and the fair one toyed shyly with her fan,
and invited more twitting. It is, I suppose, the
feminine equivalent to the prudishness of the con-
verted rake.
“The Melbourne woman is showing a more
pronounced disposition every day to host it out of
the house. The afternoon-tea at the kiosk of the
Botanical Gardens is a recognised form of up-to-
date hospitality. Another place of hospitality is
the cafe-spread. A private room is booked, a
cart of flowers and foliage is tipped in, the artiste
disposes them to the best effect, and, when all is
arborish and sweetly poetic, the hostess and her
flock arrive.
“Mrs. Maesmore Morris, according to recent
word from the Big Smoke, grows fat. And her
sesthetio, languishing, violet-eyed, taper-chinned
beauty will be sacrificed for ever if she allows that
tendency to continue, and her slow languor be
but accounted the heaviness of the woman of bulk.
“ An artist of some observation touring abroad
writes encouragingly to his women friends here
on a subject of vital interest. ‘ Nothing strikes
me so hard,’ he scrawls, ‘as the bloom of the
Englishwoman in the forties. Any smart fashion-
able is brighter, livelier, more amusing, more
magnetic, and better to look upon than the
debutante, no matter how her youth flies its pen-
nants in cheek and eye. The woman of 40 takes
the place of the belle of the last century. No
woman in the world owns up in hair, color, neck
lines, or face wrinkles, to a day beyond 40. It
seems to me the feminine physique as well as the
character goes on developing and maturing (yes,
maturing) till that rocky year, and there it remains
triumphant, till—well—indefinitely. The young
English Miss is sly, insipid, and a dull companion,
and her beauty isn’t in it with the strong charm
of the forties.’
“The Williamson management spread itself
in a glory of bright scarlet gladiolas and roses
for the first greeting of the new vice-royalties
in Her Majesty’s, Saturday night. An elevated
cushion should be in use for the little G.-G.
As it is, his mightiness is lost amid the
sweep of his lady’s chiffons, the surf of Lady
Knowles’ train, and the four large aides. Lady
Northcote mostly regarded “The Country
Girl” through a lorgnette. Anon, she passed
the peepers over the audience. She wasn’t there
merely on show, she wanted to inspect in turn.
She wore turquoises this time, mingled with
diamonds, and a white silk and black dress. All
society rallied to the show owing to the due
advertisement of the Northcote presence. The
L.S. Mackinnons had a rustling bevy of girl and
all the smart bachelors available. Mrs. Walter
Coldham mounted her comely fairness in a grand
array of sky blue chiffons.
“ A few chosen spirits trooped down to the
decks of the Omrah the other day to say farewell
to the Countess Darnley. The floral anchor, the
heart of forget-me-nots, and the posy of remem-
brance were handed up by the Dowager of Clive-
den, Mrs. Robert Power, and others. The
Countess travelled only with a maid. By the
way, many wonder where the functions of that
dresser come in.
“ Miss Edith Sutton, a daughter of Argus
accountant Sutton, and grandniece of late Mon-
signor O’Hea, who leaves by the Moravian to
marry someone in S’Africa, entertained her
friends last week with tea, music, and a view of
her trousseau. Miss Sutton reports that Mrs.
Maesmore Morris has grown tired of George
Alexander as a manager, and that she and Beryl
Faber purpose to take a theatre on their own.
“The presentation bob as a habit is spreading.
Lady Silverlocks Clarke gave the younger women
an object lesson in bobbing whenever the greater
Vice-Royalty approached, and Dame Hutton
excited their envy by her dexterous genuflections
during the Tennyson tenure. But now all Toorak
bobs rather adroitly. It is rather a pity to see
Australian knees put to such a use.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


“NERVES.”
Nerves, nerves, nerves, nerves ! Everybody has “The Nerves” this Summer. And Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for'Pale People (being a blood-building tonic) is the only thing that can cure you quickly and
surely. And they do this because they actually make new blood—and that new blood soothes and steadies
your nerves. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills give you strong nerves, high spirits, good appetite, sound sleep, ruddy
cheeks, self-confidence, energy and strength to withstand the heat. They did this for Miss Mary Mulhall,
1 Welford-street, Enmore, Sydney, and they can do the same for every person who feels weary, nervous,
or run-nown.
“ For a long time,” says Miss Mary Mullhall, my health
was miserable. My blood got weak and thin, and then my
nerves started to twitch and shake at the least thing. I was
too nervous to sleep properly, and every morning I woke more
tired than when I went to bed. I used to have nasty, nervous
headaches, too, and I often wonder now how I ever dragged
through the long, weary days. My appetite fell off. After
even the lightest meal a heavy weight seemed always to be
messing on my chest. If I walked a few yards my heart
thumped and jumped like mad. My legs often felt as though
thevcould not hold me ; and my hands trembled like a leaf if
I even poured out a cup of tea. Day after day I kept in this
weak, miserable state, until I heard that Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills actually made new blood. I knew that was the only way
to soothe and steady my nerves, so I got some. Soon I began
to feel they were doing me good. My nerves got much steadier,
and the weakness left my legs. At last every trace of illness
left me, and I was able to go about my work as well as ever.
My nerves are now strong and steady, and my health is perfect
in every way. People with shaky nerves or watery blood are
sure to find a perfect cure in Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People.”
2s. 9d. a box; six boxes, 15s. 3d.
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
Accept No Substitute?.
Dr Williams Pink Pills for Pale People
i
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ He’s a nice little Bombay duck ” —a
woman’s verdict on G.-G. Northcote.
Mr Tom Mann will, after all, continue
work as political organiser in Victoria.
Mr. Barlow, Queensland Minister for
Education, “ testified ” for a few years in the
ranks of the Salvation Army.
Mr. Seddon, jun., the S’African hero, and
son of Premier Seddon, has now been appointed
a “military expert ” to the M.L. Government.
Though St. John's, Parramatta, has been
a going church since 1797, it has only had four
incumbents—Marsden, Bobart, King and Gunther
—all Englishmen.
“Adam Tramp,” one of the best known
of Labor verse-makers of the Queensland bush,
who lately worked his passage to Cosine, Lane’s
S’American settlement, was disappointed with it
after a few weeks’ trial, and has moved on.
Mr. L. J. Brient, ex-editor of Sydney
D.T., has now been promoted on the staff of Lon-
don Daily Chronicle to the post of night editor.
Brient’s progress in London has been fast —due to
his keen knowledge of what constitutes “news.”
Graham Berry was twice married. The
surviving children by the first marriage are
James, Harriet, Benjamin, Emma, Charlotte,
Graham, Eliza and George; and by the second,
Katie, Alice, Arthur, Clare, Edith, Harold and
Dorothy.
Robert Et heridge, whose death in England
is announced, was one of the front men of the
British Museum. Mr. Robert Etheridge, curator
of Sydney Museum, is his son, and in geological
and ethnological researches treads in his father’s
footsteps.
Graham Berry in his time had been much
admired by many women. ’ He was welHnto the
sixties when he was presented to Queen Victoria
at Windsor Castle, and she remarked to a duchess-
in-waiting that “the gentleman from Australia
had beautiful eyes.”
Mr. J. J. Lee. formerly of the Crown
Solicitor’s Office, Sydney, and now in his 85th
year, was, ’tis said, recently appointed a Knight,
or something, by the Pope on the nomination of
Cardinal Moran, but when Rev. O’Haran told
him of the bauble, sensible Mr. Lee offered him
£5O to take it away.
TREASURER SHIELS GOES A-DRIVING.
A controversy on spiritualism in the Mel-
bourne Herald resulted in drawing H. Junor
Browne, one-time'distiller, and father-in-law to
Alfred Deakin. Mr, Browne was originally a
whisky maker and took quite naturally to spiri-
tualism, to which Premier Deakin was himself
once strongly addicted.
Graham Berry, who died on January 25.
gave the insurance company from which the Vic-
torian Government bought an annuity of £5OO a
fair profit. The Government paid £3OlO for
Berry’s annuity just six years ago. The company
has, therefore, made the interest on the yearly-
decreasing purchase money and £lO over.
C. Byrnes, dead at Bundarra, was a
Crimean veteran, in the thick of all the great
engagements. He fought the Australian goldfields
next, and was among the first to tackle free
selection under Robertson’s Act. Used to say
life in the Crimea was bad, on the goldfields
worse, but on a backblocks selection worst.
Jas. Munro, of Armadale, andE. J. Dixon,
of Malvern (Vic.), are the only survivors of the
20 “ stonewallers ” who followed Graham Berry
to the country in 1877 and s. roped the pool.
Bryan O’Loghlen still remains of the famous
Berry Ministry of 1878, which imposed Black
Wednesday on an astonished country, and turned
Gov. Bowen’s hair grey.
Seemingly one at least of Victoria’s retir-
ing Legislative Councillors does not intend, to
seek re-election under the Amended Constitution
Act. Recent notice in Melb. Akgus :
A N educated professional gentleman, fairly good
-r*- position, widower, 71, perfect health, wishes to
meet widow lady with means, to spend the Autumn
of life in peace and pleasant companionship. Give
bona-fide name and address in the strictest confi-
dence. Await reply for one week, as advertiser
resides out of Melbourne. Will give his name and
references in exchange. Mutual further knowledge
necessary, this being merely a means of introduction.
Widower, Argus office.
Colonel Bingham, brother m-law to the
Waxellency, died last week. He was a Bwitish
officah in the N.S.W. Artillery when he married
Mrs. Madden’s sister and joined the lamentable
Soudan Contingent that captured the Soudan
goat In later vears he had the command of the
Vic. Artillery, leaving Melbourne for a Bombay
billet some three years ago.
Dr. Torreggiani, the dead R.C. Bishop of
Armidale, was a stout and good-humored cleric of
strong teetotal principles, with a weakness tor
trying to reform drink victims. An Italian, he
had to an extent the ear of the Papacy, and
through him Mr. Dan O’Connor recently won to a
Papal decoration, which Cardinal Moran did not
recommend. The bishop was a-monk of the If ran-
ciscan order.
S.M. Herald, in a farewell review of the
departed G.G. some days ago, after recounting
“his literary achievements,” staled that he had,
“howe'er, most distinguished himself, by demon-
strating that the salary of the Gov. -General Was
sufficient to maintain the position, and with
dignity.” Lord Tennyson should take to heart
that superb comp’iment: his best title to fame is
that he can live on ,£lO,OOO a year.
Sydney Evening News —which is, so to
speak, the official organ of the motor-car member
for Wentworth, N.S.W. —records that he is to be
seen about Melbourne a great deal in the com-
pany of Mr. G. H. Reid, and has been taken for
his son ! There ought to be, by the way, a>
“ comfy ” time ahead of impecunious politicians,
with Mr. Terry a member of the N.S.W. Assembly
and Mr. Kelly of the House of Reps.
The term for which Mr. Jacob Garrard
was appointed President of the Sydney Water
and Sewerage Board is approaching its end, and
he lias commenced a campaign for a further lease
of the billet. S.M. Herald appeals to John bee
to re appoint Jacob, and not to sully his reputa-
tion by “pitchforking a political hanger-on.
E. W. O’Sullivan is mentioned as a possible
successor. Garrard’s appointment was, in thefirsb
instance, a flagrant job, and to put in Owe
Sullivan would just about match it.
Died, the other day, Long Gordon—-for a
while Protector of Aborigines in the Boulia (Q.)
district. Gordon was a squatter in the early
days, and a great dare-devil. It is told £ low
one time tracked certain aboriginals, who had
killed a surveyor, to a cave where they were
hidden, entered the cave alone, and did summary
justice with a shooting iron. In his declining
years he was a true friend to the .native tribes,
until retrenchment lost him his position.
When Elijah 111., the man with the
purple wings, was last in Australia, he had a
fine gift of language, as instance this outburst in
1883 on the Argus :
All the hundred eyes of the Argus glare with hate
upon anyone whose actions might endanger any of the
gods of the Exchange. All their thousand claws are
eager to tear, and their ten thousand serpents’ teeth are
ready to bite, the monster who dares to question the
divine right of Pluto, god of darkness and of gold, and
his drunken but wealthy associate Bacchus. The Argus
is the dog Cerberus who watches over the dark interests
of the Hades of a corrupt society, where Mammon holds
undisputed sway. I count it among my honors to
number among my many adversaries this foul literary
Cerberus, whose “mouth is an open sepulchre,” despite
its veneer of culture, and I should be as much ashamed to
merit its praise* as I am thankful to have been honored
by its abuse
Whitaker Wright “played the game ”
boldly at the finish. His genius for management
was never shown to better advantage than in the
arrangement of his death. He had lost, and had
been sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment-
seven years of skilly and horrible drudgery—and he
promptly died before they could change the high
collar and frock coat of ease for the grey garb
and broad arrows of the cells. And he was right.
Better the Unknown than the skilly and plank
bed of the penitentiary after the gorgeous luxury
of Rippon Lea, with its glass and marble smoking
room under the artificial lake, and its rooms
dadoed with flowers of carved metal that waved in
the machine-made breeze and wafted out con-
centrated perfumes. Compared with the miser-
able Wilde the great wild-cat died game.
“ Galvo ” writes about his adopted king :
Have been living in M.L. and studying its politics for
18 months now, after many years spent in different parts
of Australia. Arrived with rather a prejudice against
Seddon. My stay here has convinced me that he is a
much-maligned man. Really, there are two Seddons.
There is Richard Seddon, P.C., who runs up the Royal
Standard on all possible occasions. But there is also
Dick Seddon, the strong, alert democrat, who apparently
never rests and is always fighting, scheming and striving
for the advancement of Maoriland. I otten wonder what
will happen to M.L. politics when Seddon drops the reins,
and foresee a Tory reaction. Joseph Ward, his most
likely successor, is a Tory at heart, and has not a tithe of
Seddon’s strength or determination. He depends less on
force than lubrication, and the manner ill which the
Opposition papers praised his handling of Parliament
dur'ng Seddon’s absence in England is itself sufficient to
cause suspicion. So far as the Opposition itself is con-
cerned, it is composed of propertied men whose ambition is
to reduce things to the state they are in in Victoria. The
N Z Herald, their special organ, is never tired of holding
the Iceberg Govt, up as an example. Seddon may be
(and is) a terror to talk, and to talk flapdoodle, but taking
him all round. Imperialism and Democracy blended, there
is not another man in Australasia —not even Kingston
who has done so much for the workers or who strives so
single-heartedly for the advancement of his colony.
LORD NORTHCOTE.
(By a bilious caricaturist.)
Tamahau Mahupuka, the big Wairarapa
chief, who died the other day, had two wives,
Areta (Alice) and another. The other was
seriously ill in a hospital when she heard of
his death, but got up and came straightway to the
resting-place of her lord to join the mourners.
By the way, the old order of the tangi changeth.
No longer are continuous chanting and wild
dances indulged in round the corpse. No longer
is there savage gluttony in liquids and solids,
with pig-like intervals of sleep between gorges.
The whole tangi was conducted decorously under
the control of the Maori Council.
Mr. Ben. Cowderoy, sec. of Melb. Chamber
of Commerce up to ’B6, then a Government valuer
for 16 years, now living in retirement and breed
ing sheep at Notting Hill (Vic.), recollects the
declaration of peace subsequent to Waterloo. As
a Blue-coat boy, when the school was alongside
Old Newgate, he saw Fauntleroy hanged, besides
many others of less note. Smugglers by the
dozen he has seen dangling in chains on Thames
banks—left there to the mercy of birds and
weather. Sheep and horse-stealers and arsonists
he has witnessed pay for their offence with their
lives. The Iron Duke, Coleridge, Lamb and
Dickens he remembers well, also the “ first gentle-
man in Europe,” who “ had cheeks like flitches of
bacon.” In ’53 he reached "Victoria, whose history
he has at his fingers’ ends; he now talks of
writing his memoirs.
The old whaling days
of Neutral Bay were re-
called, the other day, by
an application to bring
under the Real Property
Act a whaling allotment
of one acre and one rood
granted to Captain John
Lamb. The Capt. was a
Royal Navy man who
settled in Sydney in the
Thirties, and resided in
his latter days at Larboard
Lodge, Macleay-street.
An out-back identity
insists on being addressed
as “Mr. John Jumbuok,
N. J.P.,” the letters being
an abbi'eviation of Not a
Justice of the Peace. The
wonder is that he does
not sign his name “ John
Jumbuok, N.8.J.P.” Any
Australian can tell what
the “ B ” stands for.
Robert Tooth, whose
daughter was lately saved
from drowningin England,
is responsible for a window picture in St.
Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, “The Calming of
the Sea.” That picture was suggested to him in
his old brewery days by the rescue of a female
relative from drowning.
Whenever the late R.C. Bishop Torreggiani
came to Sydney the cabmen fought shy of him.
Not that he was a bad payer. It was on account or
his tremendous weight. Out in the Wooliant**
district, where lie used to stay with the FranJSis&an'
monks, he broke the springs of two As
the drivers and owners of the damaged cabs were
Romans, they suffered and made no sign. Ih o
Bishop’s name, however, with an estimate of his
weight, was passed round among the drivers, and
thereafter he was politely, yet firmly, boycotted.
About the quaintest old figure in Vic.
labor-union life has just dropped out. For nearly
a quarter of a century Peter Phillips had been
secretary of the Miners’ Association at Bendigo.,
For 20 years he had been to everybody .
Peter.” In the earliest infancy of the union he lost
his arm by a mining accident; and a good deal for
that reason, they made him secretary'. A rugged
old battler, who never thought once before lie
spoke twice, he had trodden on nearly everyone’s
corns sometime or other; and yet they all forgave
him for his obvious sincerity and his devotion to
the association, and because he knew every miner
on the field, and could talk to them all in private
like a father. He didn’t believe in any “new-
fangled ideas of labor going into politics,” and so
fought the Labor candidate pretty well every
time.
Victor Hood, private secretary to Gover-
nor Le Hunte, of S.A., refused the newspaper
camera fiends permission to photograph the new
Governor-General, describing the request as
“ p-p-p-pre-pppposterous.” Whereupon an enter-
prising fiend went up to Lord Northcote, as he was
lunching in the pavilion on the Adelaide Oval,
and, tapping him on the shoulder, said: “Oh,
excuse me, sir, but if I don’t get a photograph of
you, I’ll get the sack.” The little roan jumped
up: “Oh, that would be too bad. Certainly, I’ll
come. Shall Igo with you now?” Whereupon
the magnanimous photographer responded : “Oh,
no, sir; finish your lunch first.” Directly the
meal was ended, Northcote, Tennyson, the Ad-
miral, and Governor Le Hunte trooped to the
back of the Oval and submitted themselves to be
“ posed.”
“ G.H.” writes :
Think mighty little- with all due respect of John
Farrell’s “ great integral principle” that nothing
matters, anyhow. When the individual starts
out clinging to the idea that nothing is of any
importance, the nation is likely to resemble an
improvident, irresponsible vagrant. A swagman
Australia may look picturesque enough in the abstract,
and provide pathos for a lot of debilitated poets ; but a
fixed, responsible country with one permanent address
would be far better. If Farrell had skewer, d himself to
the world with a more substantial pin than the nothing-
matters principle, he might have possessed a Daily
Telegraph of his own, and made out of it a national
weapon that would have kept his memory green for ever
in Australia. Instead, through not mattering, he leaves
a small parcel of rather good verses ; and the recollection
of a fellow troubled throughout life with a huge go-easy-
Which is mostly truth, but partly misconception.
John Farrell was a worker all the time ; his
“ nothing matters onnyhow ” was the motto not
of laziness, but of gentle contempt for the feverish
worry of money-making and ambitious striving,
something of the spirit of Walt Whitman :
I stand and look at the oxen long arid long,
They are so placid and self-contained,
They do not lay awake at night weeping over their sins.
A man who wanted a billet interviewed
the Minister of Works the other day. Mr.
Lawrence Eoley was in the Minister’s room at the
time. “Do you think you can find anything for
him to do, Larry?’’ said the Owe Sullivan.. “I
think I can find him a job down the yard, Ned,’
was the affable reply. And that Bill went to his
dirt-money in joy.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA.
“ There's a little drad cat outside our fence.”
"Pooh! it might be onl y asleep .”
"No, I inm[?]ed on it and it didn't [?]."


The Leading House for
SAW
CAMERAS, PHONOGRAPHS
GRAMAPHONES, 'MAGIC LANTERNS
UP-to-date Selections
of
Phonograph Records
and
Gramaphone Discs,
Send for . . .
Illustrated Catalogue.
♦♦♦♦«
375 George St.,
SYDNEY.
r
-2GO Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Kundle St., Adelaide. 90 &92 Queen St., Bhisbane.
m
MARDY RrOTmC RS.
Fine 3 Stone
Sapphire & Diamond Claw Ring
*lO/10/-
Fine Single Stone
Diamond Ring.
*6O
Fine Sapphire and Diamond
Claw Ring.
£lB
Gem . #
flerchants
Gold and
Silversmiths.
HARDY BROTHERS have
for the past 50 years
been noted for the ex-
cellence of their Gem
work—RINGS, in par-
l if'iilar, receiving special
attention.
For Customers residing
AT A DISTANCE, ILLUSTRA-
TIONS WILL BE FOR-
WARDED or Goods sent
ON AITROVAL.
Fine 3 Stone
Diamond Ring.
£2O.
vmc
Fint Pearl and Diamond
Cluster Ring,
£3O.
Fine 5 Stone
Diamond Ring,
£l5.
BHUNTERSTREETSYD NEY, b AT BRISBANE & LONDON
Aboriginalities.
In the cane-growing districts, the O.S.R.
Co. keeps its books by the decimal system, ex-
tended “to three places.” When the cookies get
their delivery receipts for each load in tons and
decimals, their mental struggles to battle out the
value of the decimals is appalling. “ I can’t make
out tliiin decimals,” said one; “what the devil
are they at all, at all ?” “I don’t rightly know,”
replied the other, “but ” (with an air of great
wisdom) “it takes a mighty lot of ’em to weigh
a ton ! ”
* * * *
Weather-seer Wragge is being threatened
with a serious rival, and should get all his isobars
ready for competition. One John Hurrell, a stout
German ex-bootmaker, has been going up and
down the Vic. Mallee of late like a meteorological
dervish, prophesying all manner of climatic
things. So far, too, lie has had his prognostica-
tions backed up by events, and the kind of
weather lie foretells has come right along.
Hurrell has a big pull in not needing any expen-
sive outfit of telescopes, barometers, and things.
He seems to manufacture his weather out of bits of
string, waste paper, and the like.
Mr. John Hurley, M.L.A. (N.S.W.),
claims that he has in his possession the skin of a
red-bellied black snake shed 17 years after the
reptile’s death ! The owner of the defunct
wriggler, an Emmaville (N.S.W.) resident,
alleges that this is the seventeenth skin that
snake has shed since it was killed 17 years
ago, and other highly truthful residents of
the town vouch for the statement as Gospel.
EPICUREAN.
JOCOSE BEAK : “ Well, Mary Jane, I must sen-
tence you to twenty-four hours ”
MARY JANE : “ Would your Worship kindly
make it three days? The beer tastes so much
nicer when you’ve been off it three days.”
THE HEATHEN IN HIS BLINDNESS.—A FRAGMENT .
“I hope,” said the newly-landed miss [?]ry as he advanced with a winning smile to grasp
the friendly hands of his new parishioners , “I hope we shall agree.’
“I hope so,” said the cannibal chief as he made a mental guess at the good man’s weight.
" Leastwise, I hope you will agree with us; but, to make quite sure, we will try a bit of yon
on the dog first.”
Some queer names of Victorian localities :
“Singer and Die,” an old lead near Avoca; “Good
Morning Bill,” a hill in the Ararat district;
“Pretty Sally,”a hill near Ivilmore; “Temperance
Township,” the continuation of Ascot Vale;
“ Whisky Hill,” at the back of Melbourne R.A.
Show Grounds.
* * * *
A new Centralian stock-route is indicated
by F. H. Hann, who, leaving Laverton, in Wes-
tralia, on September 28, got through to Oodna-
datta (S.A.), on the trans-continental line, by
December 23, and has since started back by a
neighboring but different route. The distance is
900 miles, the border being about mid-way. Good
grass and saltbush and water (at reasonable
depths) all the way.
• * * *
“ Peri ” : The prettiest bit of Nature's
handicraft is the brown snake—in my eyes. It
(of either sex) is as vain as it is hand-
i some, and as harmless as a dynamite
y cap till you fool with it or take it
unawares. The brown species is
the aristocrat of snakedom, the
black the middle class, and the
tiger the plebeian. The tiger is a
lazy, loafing and bad-tempered
devil ; the black is a grafter and
knows a thing or two. When
you come to know snakes there
is nothing mean about them.
Would rather handle a pet snake
than a yellow-
crested cocka-
too any day
—they are
not nearly
so treacher-
ous. The
snake as a
lover is
brave and
gallant. Al-
though m y
creed teach-
es me to
kill every
snake I come
across, re-
gardless of
likes and dis-
likes, it is
only because
of the curse
of Eve that
I do so.
“ J.P.” : Some people prefer coal fires.
Give me wood. There never was or will
be a chop in Heaven or the Other Place,
cooked over coal, that comes anywhere
near the chop grilled, or fried for that
mattter, on a good wood fire. Gas is
worse than coal. Apart from cooking there is
nothing like wood—nothing half so cheerful as a
good blaze. If the back country is ahead of the
towns in any one thing, it’s in this one. In an
old-fashioned, six-foot, wattle-and-daub fire-place,
with a few logs of manuka, you can have the
finest fire that ever happened on this planet or
elsewhere.
One J. E. Preston-Muddock alleges in
London Dati/v Tklkoraph that he once travelled
upwards of 1000 miles on foot through Australia
and subsisted for the most part on hard biscuits,
jerked beef, and tea, “varied with stringy-bark-
tree maggots.”
* * * *
“ Alex M.” :He koala-shooting. My own
experience is that the “bear’’can frequently be
brought down by a second shot, fired so quickly
after the first that the animal hasn’t time to put
on his “extra special” grip. If he gets time to
do that, you may (unless you manage to hit him
fair in the cerebellum) bombard him unsuccess-
fully for hours.
* * * *
“ H.F.” : Re “Quidam’s” criticisms (8.,
14/l/’O4) of bush-writers. So far writers have
only touched such aspects of the bush as came
under their own notice : Lawson the highroad,
“Banjo” the cattle-station, “Steele Rudd’ the
Darling Downs. Now, it is a fair inference that
I—who, as a free selector, have lived for 15 years
in a district untapped by these and other writers
—know what I’m writing of, and I say that a
native bear can be killed with a gun, but often at
an expenditure of shot which no economical skin-
getter would contemplate. Cheapest cartridges
for guns 6s. 6d. per hundred, for “22” rifles
Is. 3d. And the small-bore rifle is now so
accurate that my boys prefer it for ’possum
shooting. I have only killed one bear myself,
and though they are thick round my house, I
would a 3 soon kill a baby as another. When
wounded, they cry and sob so much like a child
that it is heart-breaking.
* * * *
Abundance of grass, plenty of water, and
a record harvest; this is a glorious season for the
teamsters, and they are going in for record loads.
One man drew up at Narrotnine (N.S.W.) with
193 bags of wheat on his waggon, weighing a
little more than 21J tons, the gross weight (includ-
ing waggon) being a few pounds under 25 tons.
* * * *
“ Ento.” : How is it that the hornet (the
large, yellow and black-banded variety) is not
classed among our insect-destroying and protected
birds ? _ This insect destroys more caterpillars,
proportionately to its size, than many a protected
songster. Have lately been watching one closely,
and when she had completed the mud receptacle
for her first egg, and duly laid therein the said
she set to work in the usual way to provide
for the commissariat of the future grub. Forty-
seven times did she return to the nest, each time
laden with a plump caterpillar, in that comatose
condition to which the hornet’s sting has the strange
power of reducing other insects, to serve as food
for the hornet-grubs. The next step is to close
the opening to this first nest, and to build a similar
one beneath it. In this another egg is laid and
another supply of caterpillars is laid-in. A third
time the process is repeated, and the lady-hornet
departs, secure that her progeny’s future is pro-
vided for. Now, suppose she procured three times
47 caterpillars in all, those 141 caterpillars would
have produced a like number of butterflies, which
would have laid enough eggs to produce 40 million
caterpillars to assist in the shortage of next year’s
wheat-crop. Hornet-conservation, therefore, is
plainly an agricultural duty.
Late John Farrell was in
many things as guileless as a child.
When he went to Albury to take a
job at the local brewery he arrived
about 11.30 p.m., and was driven to
the pub. nt arest the beer-foundry.
He found the pla~e live'y, the bar
and other rooms being crowdtd.
The hotelkeeper was the next week
before the court on a charge of
making too free with the Licensing
Act. Farrell was relied upon as
the principal witness for the de-
fence. Solicitor for the defence in
court asked him : “ Now, Mr.
Farrell, will you kindly tell the
court what you know of the case? ”
With his broguish drawl Farrell
dropped into a description of the
scene. “ Well, there was dancing,
and singing, and card-playing, and
shaking for drinks ; business was
brisk, and every one seemed to he
having a good time. I don’t know
what the police wanted to interfere
for.” At this stage the majesty
of the law hid itself in a spacious
smile, the audience guffawed, and
the defendant and his attorney
looked unutterable things. When
the court recovered it asked pleas-
antly if the defendant had any
more witnesses to call. The de-
fendant hadn’t, and w;.s fined the
full penalty. And when Farrell
stepped out of the box he could
not understand why there was such
a cloud on the face of the man who
had subpoenaed him.
* * *
“ Bullainan ” tells this with
an air of great veracity:—At Mt.
Fox, 25 miles from Ewan (N.Q.), the
ironbark timber is being gradually
transformed into box. The change in many cases
commences at the ends of the topmost branches,
where small twigs are conspicuous by the differ-
ence in the leaves and the white bark. In the
case of one large tree, the change has been pro-
ceeding for years, and the tree, barring a few feet
of ironbark near its butt, is now a full-blown box
tree. Trees are to be seen in all stages of the
transformation. The blacks call this locality
‘ ‘ debil debil ” country.
NOT LIKELY!
“ Wuz that yer sister you wuz with yesterday?”
“ Sister! Lichen I Didn’t yer see as I ’ad me
arm ’round ’er?"
“Old Tom” about Young Australia: —
At our place there is a married couple-—man,
overseer; t’other half, cook and housekeeper.
New Year’s morning overseer didn’t turn out till
a couple of hours later than usual, and the cook
remarked to her six-year old son, in pretended
fear, “My goodness, father might have died last
night. Oh, whatever would we do?” The nipper :
“I dunno what you’d do, mammy, but I’d nick
the keys of the store, quick and livelv.”
*** “ *
J. F. Keane, Atherton (N.Q.), writes :
I was asked to remove a beehive from the vicinity of a
garden gate, owing to a horse getting stung. It was a
2ft. 6in. x 2ft. packing case, without a top, lying on its
side on the ground, and covered with a much-twisted
and bent sheet of galvanised iron. On throwing the iron
off, the open side of the box exposed the interior, up to
six inches of one end, filled with comb and bees. 5 * From
the space unoccupied by bees bolted three half-grown
rats, which ran round the box, and then in agaiii, three
times. I tried to kill the rats, hut the bees paraded in
their full force, and covered the eventual retreat of the
rodents through a paling fence. Afterwards I found a
well-built rats’ nest in the, otherwise, vacant end of the
box. There can be no doubt that bees and rats had
domiciled amicably in the same compartment for weeks.
The rats, as they ran in an! out, brushed carelessly
against clusteis of bees on the comb without creating
any excitement.
BILL AND I.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bill and I went north o’ Bourke
Twenty years ago,
Took a job of contract work—
Fencing job in 00.
Bill and I a cheque knocked up,
Shared two hundred pound,
Then to see the Melbourne Cup
Bill and I were bound.
Bill and I arrived in Bourke,
Met some mates of old,
Spent the fruits of twelve months’ work,
All our blooming gold ;
Never saw the Melbourne Cup,
Never got past Bourke.
Three days saw our beans done-up—
Went back north to work.
Worked like tigers one more year,
Cup time came again—
Straight past Bourke we swore we’d clear
By the first down train ;
Vowed that year we’d view the Cup,
Swore ’gainst rum and Bourke ;
Yet that darned place pulled us up—
Darned dry place is Bourke.
’Leven times we’ve started down—
Down to see the Cup—
’Leven times in Bourke’s sweet town
We our cheques done-up.
Bill and I still, north o’ Bourke,
Toil from year to year ;
Bourke’s a town we fail to shirk—
Further, fail to steer.
North o’ Bourke we earn our bread,
Bourke provides our rum ;
North o’ Bourke our souls must tread
Out to Kingdom Come.
WILMOT WATSON.


The catastrophe in Herbert Spencer’s un-
published tragedy is said to be —an induction
killed by a fact.
Miss Helena Rubenstein (says the /( ustralasian),
who has rooms at 243 Collins-street, Melbourne, is intro-
ducing the new skin food, known as “Valaze,” prepared
by Dr. Lykushi, the famous Russian skin specialist. It is
claimed hy the inventor and Miss Rubenstein from expe-
rience—that if the instruction given in her book be fol-
lowed, anyone disiigured by wrinkles, freckles, or any
skin blemish whatever, will be delighted with the results
obtained after a course of treatment. An advantage of
“ Valaze ” is that it does not remain on the surface of the
skin, where it can be seen, but is absorbed, and creates a
healthy condition, the result being that looseness is re-
moved, and the skin made firm and healthy. Miss
Rubenstein declares “ Valaze ” to be ab olutely the only
genuine imported skin food. Her little work is illustrated
by a number of diagrams, showing the method of apply-
ing the food. Further particulars will be found in our
advertising columns.*
“Berry was the greatest force that Victoria
has known,” say The Bulletin of 28/l/’O4. The
greatest Australian force at the present moment
in politics or any other phase of mental or physical
activity is unquestionably D.C.L. Whisky. A
force that creates force, especially brain force,
urging the country on to greater efforts of progress
and wealth development. In good truth, the
Whusky of the Wise.*
%
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A CURE FOR KIDNEY AND BLADDER TROUBLES.
WHERE TO STAY IN SYDNEY — — r
ADAMS’ HOTEL
PITT STREET.
fIEET HE AT THE HARBLE BAR.
/
N
V
There never has .been sold a Watch to come anywhere near
The » Fx. & R.” Watch
for Profound Accuracy and Strength (except those at
ten times the price).
It is in mechanics the Greatest
Wonder of the Age.
It is a J-plate Lever, has 15 Jewels.
It has a Ruby Roller Jewel. It has
Brequet Hair Spring. It has com-
pensated and adjusted balance.
It is guaranteed for 15 years and
kept in order for 2 years (break-
ages excepted) without charge.
It will stand hard riding and knock-
ing about.
It is made in every style of case.
It is 50/- in Silver Hunting Case.
It is 65/-
It is 30/-
It is 40/-
It is 42/-
in Silver Half-Hnntiny Case,
in Open-face Oxidised Case (Gent ’s size) All
». .» „ (Lady’s size) Full)/
in Sliver Open-face Case (Gent’s size) Jewelled
FAIRFAX <sc ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 HUNTER ST.
“ W.A. Bushman”: J2e ceremonies of
W. A. natives. Once a year the North Yilgarn
tribe, now nearly extinct, “go bush walk,”
returning laden with bark, of a very tender fibre,
winch forms the chief ingredient of an annual
feast, bucks only admitted. This bark is cooked
on embers, and is mixed with human blood, ob-
tained from the main artery of the fore.irm,
opened by the finger-nail only. The wound is
bound up, and soon heals. Considerable signifi-
cance is attached to this feast.
* » * *
“W. W.” ; Most bushmen are aware that
manna gums, during the summer and early
autumn, supply various birds and insects with
snow-white sugar, which falls from the trees in
lumps often as large as walnuts. I’ve often seen
from 61b. to 121 b. 1 ying on a small patch of ground
beneath manna gums. But the richest treacle
mine I ever struck was pointed out to me the other
day. It was an old manna gum, and from where
the tree forked, about 40ft. from the earth, to the
roots was streaked with dry marina, in places half-
an-inch broad and quarter-inch deep. Other
streaks were in liquid state, sweet as honey, and
same color. Above the fork there were also
streams of manna. Several lbs. must have fallen
to the ground ; and there was a train-load of ants
picnieing in the vicinity. My theory is that the
tree is on the point of death and the sap is flowing
frofn it. Tree mentioned is on Tareutta Creek,
seven miles from Tumberumba.
* * * *
t “ B- Yates” writes from Ouriinbah,
N.S.W., re domestication of the lyre bird :
I have one at present which I got in August last, he
being then about a month old. He is perfectly tame and
friendly. As for diet, he will take-on pretty well any-
thing—from small frogs to porridge. His mimetic
accomplishments are, so far, limited to barking like
an excited puppy, and whistling in a melodious but ear-
splitting way. He already has the two outer curved tail
feathers, about 7in. long, and a curious circumstance is
that he seems to have no crop. No matter how much he
eats, there is no swelling as with other fowls. Also, he
drinks by sucking water up without raising and throwing
back his head. He delights in a bath, though he makes
it as thick with mud as possible.
• * * *
An old rangatira in the Bay of Plenty bad
but one daughter. She had been married many
years, but was childless, and had gone in vain to
the sacred tree in various localities. The old
chief was sad, for the extinction of his line was
threatened. But his hopes were revived the other
day when his grand-nephew announced that the
local schoolmaster had a new tree in his garden
marked “ tamariki” (children) tree. So he begged
permission, which was granted, to pay his re-
spects to the spirit of that tree, and every morn-
ing for a week the old chief, his daughter and his
son-in-law prayed to that tree for the blessing of
children. There has been so far, however, no
birth announcement.
* • * •
The “ evil eye ” is still a power among the
Maoris. At Waipatu, the other week, two young
girls were brought to the tohunga suffering from
delusions ; along with them was brought an old
woman, charged with witchcraft and with the
responsibility for the girls’ mental upset. The
old woman, while she seemed to take some pride
in her reputation, shrilly protested that she wasn’t
guilty of anything in connection with the girls,
and implored protection, as she had been
threatened with a witch’s death. The Maori
council, which knows too much to jump very
violently on old superstitions and practices, has
given the woman protection, and is digging into
the matter.
BAIT FOR THE TOURIST.
This “ Maori woman” photo, comes to The Bulletin “ with the compliments of the Maori-
land Government Department of Tourist and Health Resorts.” It is a pretty cute little
thing for a Government to play on to tourists.
“John C. : Re age of cocaktoos. I know
of a “wee juggler” (pink with yellow crest) that
was trapped (being then mature), on the Lachlan,
in 1884, and lived till two years ago.
** J ♦ 6 *
Australia is to be invaded this year by a
gang of half-caste Maoris. They are going across
• to shear sheep, and they reckon they will knock
out some records. Ten will form the gang; all
natives of Hawkes Bay. Hawkins, a half-caste
of the Wairarapa district, recently declared that
lie shore last December 230 sheep in hours, and
1276 sheep in six days.
HEARD AT MANLY.
“I’m always seeing those two together. Are they married?” “Oh, yes , both married."
“ E.F.” : Like your correspondent “ H.”
(B. 7/l/’O4) I have often wondered why Bulletin
artists draw such wonderful axes, shovels, &c.
In issue l/7/’O3 an old man is depicted felling a
tree with an axe like that used by the headsman
of romance. There certainly is a short-handled
axe with such a blade. It is called a squaring
axe, but it is never used for felling trees. The
artist’s stockwhip, too, as a rule, resembles six
feet of clothes line, and the pictured beast ahead
of the pictured horseman has often got a soft
thing on, for the holder of the whip must in-
evitably strangle himself before he concludes his
stroke. Another thing that puts all Australian
artists on their beam ends is the tail of the
kangaroo. As a rule it is represented as so thick
and heavy that, if the ’roo really had such a tail, he
would be considerably handicapped in making a
record jump. Again, a still stranger thing is that
in Sydney, the home of boating men, no artist
correctly draws a boat, an oar, or a scull. As a
rule there is portrayed a man in flannels propelling
an ancient British raft with a pair of clothes-
props. One well-known local artist confessed to
me that he always fought shy of depicting a boat
and a pair of oars ; and Frank Mahony, our best
animal painter, has told me often that the proper
gauge of a Ws tail was beyond him, and that a
native bear was a hopeless impossibility Leggings
were at one time an artistic stumbling block, and
though the Australian artist seems now to have
got over that difficulty, his saddles and bridles
Btill occasionally leave much to be desired.
uw » •
‘F.A.M.P. : Does not W-E-N. strain
a point in calling cocky’s death (8., 14/1/04)
suicide when it .may have been heart disease . 1
once saw an ibis commit suicide by tying a knot
in its neck and pulling same tight with its feet.
Now that was a genuine case.
“D.11.R.” : A Bulletin contributor once
contended that it was an advantage to be small;
but the advantage doesn’t last. Know a cocky
who is just sft. 2in. high, and goes by the
sobriquet of “ Booky.” He used to run horses in
his neighbors’ paddocks. His sheep used to get
through the wires and depasture on adjacent
holdings. A bore drain supplies water to the
cookies, and “ Booky ” would monopolise it with
the aid of two dams, and so grow twice as much
as anyone else. When complaints or protests
were made, “Booky” would revile the protestant
and all his ancestors till purple language obscured
the view, trusting to his diminutiveness to protect
him. But, the other day, something happened.
A big man, who had stood bullying for six years,
turned, and “Booky” went home a muddied oaf
and a wreck, with an intimation that in future he
must behave just like a big man or else take the
consequences.
* • * *
“T.H.A.”: A certain N.Q. squatter’s
wife took a half-caste girl (whose father was a
neighboring squatter) out of the blacks’ camp, in
order to bring her up decently. _ Somebody
informed the authorities, and the kind-hearted
woman was notified that she mustn’t harbor an
aboriginal. Hearing that the police were going
to take her away, the unfortunate half-caste
cleared out, and is now —at 12 years old—a
diseased wreck Such is the “ protection ”of the
aborigines.
• * * *
“ Rol.” : All the Bulletin authorities on
damper-making, so far, have omitted to mention
the need of sprinkling some cold ashes on the
bottom fire and on the top of the damper to keep
it from burning. True damper has r.o baking
powder in it. You might put a few ashes to help
it rise, but otherwise nothing but flour, water and
salt. The art is in the mixing. Damper requires
much kneading to make it a success, while the
powder loaf must be mixed as quickly as possible.
When baking in the bush with an oven, the best
way is to dig a hole the size of your oven. Put a
fire in and let it burn to ashes. Place the oven in,
so that it and the lid may get thoroughly warmed,
and then put in your powder-bread, when you
should see it rise instantly. The hole prevents
the wind from blowing cold on one side and thus
causing the loaf to be half-cooked. [Damper dis-
cussion now closed.]
* * * *
A Queensland bushman says that the
gidgee and opal go together. The same authority
declares that he never can be lost where there is
mulga, because there is always moss on the south
side of the stem.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is tinder-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany .
San Remo: Some of your letter is worth print-
ing as showing the troubles of a newspaper : “ (1) Is your
litor a Scotchman? (2) Is it true that a Scotchman has
no sense of humor? I have contributed a few pars, to
vour pages and have been occasionally staggered by your
censorship methods. Thus in humorous pars, inserted,
you have frequently cut out the sentence containing the
joke, the backbone of the whole fabric. In another
instance you cut out nearly the best sentence (humorous)
of the par. To particularise, I draw your attention to
the censorship of my Queensland Tale of Sin
(‘ Aboriginalities,’ 21/l/’O4). I wrote : ‘ The Captain
stopped it (the drum stick, not the drama) with his eye.’
In my opinion, your alteration of the bracketed words
destroyed about the brightest sentence in the par. My
last sentence was: ‘The amount of hard praying and tough
testimony done by Charlie as a penance for his sin was
prodigious, but he was never the same old Charlie.’ Your
substitute, “Charlie repented,” was very weak compared
to the original sentence. Slips like these are rough
enough bn budding genius.” The chief tribulation of an
editor is that sawdust stuffing, that cheap mechanical
“ humor ” which the “ budding genius” reckons so fine.
The editor finds it weary, weary reading (as the public
would) and laboriously stamps it out to get the bit of
good metal of fact from the dross, and is repaid with the
contumely of the contributor. Fortunately there are
compensations—pay-day is one of them... .Tortoise : Just
in time for the soup Jo: A story, like a girl, should
not have thin arm5....0.C.0. : “Georgevitoh” too much
drawn out Exile: You stay at the wickets too long
for the runs you make... .W.T.R. : Ideaall right, but you
handle it poorly.. .G.II. : “Kidney Stew” not for our
menu T. 11.5. : Hardly up to the mark.. ..Nora :
You must do your longing in some other publication
Ku-Klux : The reason of the parson’s poor horse and the
priest’s prancing prad? Well, all Irishmen have a know-
ledge of horses, which is rare amongst the class of Saxon
that usually furnishes the parson J.L.L. : Nothing in
either. ..JohnH.: Good stuff badly handled.... Jaybell:
Painfully labored humor....Wilmot W. : Don’t make
such a fuss over trifles.. ..Will O. and T.H.A. : Select
better, and don’t send in such sheaves of stuff Quidam
and Hiphen : Rolled copy is an abomination... .Wo-wo-
Rung : Too long for its interest J.McC.: Versesflimsy,
prose sketch not well enough finished.... Beaumont S. :
Have you read “ Resurrection ” ? If not, read it, and
see your little story much better told in the first
chapters Len B. : May be a fact, but it’s not
an interesting fact Geebung and Genung: Pen-
names too like older contributor’s pseudonym, “Go-
bung.” Please alter... .W.C.S.: Incredible rubbish....
Tarboy : Might go, if you could get into half the space..
W.F.T. : The word was correctly used. The “demise”
(passing over) of the crown is so commonly supposed to
mean the death of the sovereign that demise is generally-
taken to mean death D.D. : Your trouble is that you
reckon yourself a big gun and you are only a small bore.
Lala F. : It’s not a natural thought to put in the
mouth of a child, is it ?... W.W. : Cow subject quite unlit
for Bulletin Periwinkle : For Heaven’s sake get your
stuff into about one-sixth of the words Empire : Well
written but interest weak.... Theo C.D. : Well versed,
but flimsy... Mick : The aged cockie has now gone finally
to roost J. Neville : Too tangled up for print.. .Toby :
Story not up, may use other item A.P.R. : Rejected
after some hesitation Sydney M. : Some strength
but defective skill G.H.F. : Verse inferior, prose
sketch better, but not up P.F. : It’s only the
same “ tired feeling.”... .Gilrooney : The two girls give
an air of unreality to the yarn. No man ever tried to
kiss two sisters at the same time, “ down by the river,”
with any satisfaction to anybody J.D. : A thin little
joke which would be welcomed with joy in the average
poet’s corner... A.D.8.: A fact perhaps, but not a story...
H.S.R. : “ What is wrong with ‘ The Australian Brother-
hood of National Democrats’ as a name for a new purely
Australian party ? ” Far too long. But your platform is
g00d.... W.11.C. : It’s generally a bad signlwhen a writer
puts a nice fancy heading to his yarn.. ..T.W.F. : Facts
familiar C.H. : Too thin, unless you can make it
brighter... .H.M.M. : Trifle light as bricks... .C.L.R. :
Too loose and sloppy. Condense your emotion and tie
it to a Herald leader or a chimney or something solid—
J. : Too pompously “literary shorten it, simplify
it, and give us emotion instead of artifice... C.A.W. :
Wait until you get into cattle country and you’H see lots
of slip-rails... .0. : The man who wrote that par. had
lots of hair ; you can always tell; the bald genius writes
of “ hairy fools” ; the well-thatched writer of “thin-
haired cranks.”.. ..Warramunga : Hasn’t a real air about
it.... Alburv : The Rev. A. Rivett falls into the old
familiar blasphemous mistake that the Almighty couldn’t
pass the language test of the Act Vil Dik : Maloney
as a doctor is not in question, but Maloney the politician,
and if he carries forward Bulletin principles why
shouldn’t The Bulletin support him ?... .T.R.: Thanks...’.
W.V.C. : We never take syndicated matter J.F
(Gunbar): Thanks, but it has been said so often
H.D.R. : Thanks for “Conscience Money.” Seldom any
use re-writing a rejected...T.H.A. : Your stuff is getting
too illegible. Won’t deal with it unless you amend....
S.A. : The pun is good, but we loathe puns J.F.D.:
“ War-Cloud ” disappointing ; it’s a way war-clouds have.
..R.A.S. : Mediocre.. ..Long Jack : Just below the mark.
.-. Alf T. : Musical but meaningless. .Bandor : Too slight..
Unsuitable : Bullaman, W.F.C., Express, Pierre, Tauloka,
V.C., Goggles, E.T., A.A.H., A.D.8., Wilga, W.J.W.,
K. C H.F., Epacris, S.V.E., C.C.H., C.E.W., K.S.,
Anne A., Wonga, Neville G., A.K.C., Loßen., The Bar-
won, C.A.8., F.H.8., Brenta, Iris R., A. R. Nott, T.H.A.,
E. Cochrane, Will C., G.F.C., D M.R., Tarplee, W.S.,
Dan 8.. H.A.W., Pessimist, Euroka, A.M., Peter Q.,
Andrew M.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.T. : Drawing far too crude X.Q.Q. : Neither
drawings nor jokes good enough F.C. : One gag will
serve ; drawings too p00r... W. Freeman : Drawing shows
a slight gleam of promise W. Green: Drawing too
crude ; gag too poor Unsuitable: Tom S., W.E.W.,
H.S., G.K., G.H.D., Zita, Dorothy G., Tassy, Jack.


S. The Buu-ktin staff loaves off sneering at - sacred things,” and attends church
in a body.
fi. The Red Rag itself may take
on a tint of sober grey and at lasfci
become a Power for Good in the*
V land. Selah! Mjt
2. It is a well-known fact that a cab is the devil’s
own vehicle. Cab licenses hereafter will be granted
to members of the W.T.U. only.
7. They who look «|* the heer when it foameth
Yea, verily their tongues shall hang out and they shall rag
like the heathen and imagine vain things.
8. Tlie Gibson Girl must go! Here is a fashion-plate taken)
from the official organ of th© Social Gimlet Society. A shorty
Act will be introduced into Parliament to make the adop~j
tion of this cos tuple for women compulsory. |
.‘i The cigarette and tobacco poster
-as it was and as it will lie. . jgS®
{What could a do without- his l*eil ')
eligible to enter.
4. Bicycle sports wifi
l»e concfacted by par-
the starter using
a cracked church .bell.
Piou* niggers only will be
1. A sub-committee was appointed to draft a Bill dealing with th?
suppression of vioo generally.— R-ywrt of N.S.W. SUatding Co*n»niiict
mt Public Mosais.
9. 'With the above cost tune, the present
.spectacular features of a My’a _g
fating on or alighting fro™ a gm
warn -will soon be a thing of the
past * .
Ift When th«
parson drops in
for afternoon tea,
»* that tho table legs *r« properly and decent); ctj.ered A won
THE SUPPRESSION OF VICE GENERALLY-SOME PARTICULAR SUGGESTIONS.


Tjr jcripliiMj kuoris pa.t'fy is prtfely
annoulTCinfiT tfy Ij)c 'f ,s
MonJfWacW ,S 1,1
decided y majorities tfjfrMdds
spvfr 5 pvfr - • inks
P^on:— " 0 yes y°« wlll -j A
?efer„dum W»< W £ ~
itjires A2to i / 0M ;
'IJ t6t generation Je wpe
i of Gnfiwn dtffj .'S
in sonjewh^A n c'e«t' lll i f ® r y '~ A S e /
v
wh«» I w *s l oo ' l ’ ,rl>
'eoitf f° r
; timer w ll
ll r* open r
m\ |iLil»^ ,or i.
Wk feevvice is
§§ te 5 "
tV filVer&idtffc
-f o f ConlTnuoikly
> «r,emW of V NCooi>t.l
*Ws h'mself f° r .fif. *.
cjiftern br®vn»re Vi<
eitc+ions
" «« blood Mrtwijt l
bem poured
mtreli in order Ifaf A I'm?
TUiHfw mine ovwrj 2.
s,Vuld be envied To f^sl
* mr«[ SR f ,,u 7 e h/»~
Wour Qy«j\c l^r 1
Austral^ &M-L We s^nf
WW yo«
raFVoVnp brAts - your fA% r \nm
If (Un Ml) h*s J«f fold
m he doesn't mind . Mjff
rJl?' br .A u
tAKe Too 77<“b
notice of whAt fje
l,es ol<i noW y°° Kt7 ° W
Ih e Bulletin 1 WV\
*»**«, ,
Our Hew QuVnor Gene*^
-
}: ,'rf.:; X
p
"*StM¥
If seems IWlfc Sorrows
Amt Tfye
| -tfe fool f^rnrjer
' v»t UB v
A Ktlov/ing my B '
fl I did noT leAm to
. I n ° doubf ,
me from n° dj
end of time . (from Ham /jdjfl
intefV>« w Cjeo.Reu \)JUm
Bu-r wh<r »><>«+'
-ItTe. v«?R of
in Irjine 1° & 0 ?*
Tti -To "turn %e ?Xt
•y in AP direcTion^^
According, to A Melb l
controversy V
now rata no. it Abhors K
Hfjif a A*)* tribe, of V
bcoble liVino
Tweed IjAye l?ee>i • '
brouobt' op -from Ti me
imrncmoriA 1 on f]orse-fee4/
/j
THINGS LOOKED AT FROM MELBOURNE.


SAUNDERS BRILLIANT DISPLAY OF CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
A. SAUNDELS
.Ladies' High-grade Solid Silver
WATCHES. Pull-jewelled, J-plate,
£2 10s. £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 lOs ;
Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO 10s, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranteed, 3,4, 5, and 6 Years.
A. SATJNDERS.
Friendship Gold Motto BROOCH, 20s;
loot. Gold, 85s ; 18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot Gold Diamond ClnsteT and Sapphire BRACEBR l,
£l2 10s.
Smaller Diamonds, £lO 10s.
4. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, Isc.t. Gold, 3 Pure Double-out Dia-
monds, with Safety Chain, £5 ; Diamond and 2 Rubies, £4.
SWWCM
SFFU3M
A. SAUNDERS.
Mizpah Gold BROOCH, 12s 6d. Very Neat and Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
Goad Wish Gold BROOCH, 13s 6d ; loot.,
Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s lid.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold BROOCH, Dimnond, 2 Red or
Blue btoues, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Waltham Watches,
£7 10s, £B, £8 10s, £9, £lO ; Other
Styles, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s ; guaranteed
4,5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Act. Gold Ivy Leaf BROOCH, 7s 6d;
15ct. G' Id, 15-i.
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
GoH Name BROOCH, with Raised Flowers, 7s
6a ; 15ct. Gold, 15s. Any Name Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pearl, Red and Green Stone Set Butterfly
Gold BROOCH, 15s 6d ;Large Size, 20s.
■—M
- .
sa
A. SAUNDERS
Very Neat and Pretty Opal and Pearl BRACELET, 422 15s.
The Latest Style.
9ct. Gold Heart Shaped LTNKS, l'2s fid
1 act Gold, 25s
N.Z. Greenstone, ‘2os.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Handsome Double Crescent Pure Diamond BROOCH, Double,cut, £6O
With Sapphires and Diamonds, £35 ; Opals and Diamonds, £‘27 10s.
A. RA-UNDETtS.
9rt. Gold hield arid Dumb-
bell LINKS, Chased, 22s (id ;
New Zuil.md Gmu Stoae,
22s 6d.
iOC*
oj~E>
A. SATTNT>F,RS.
8-Bur Amethyst (ro]n BROOCH. 2. r >s ; 15ft
Oold, 455.
A. SAI'NUBRS.
2 Bai Onyx Stone BHOOOET, 3 Pearls in
Centie, 15et. Ould Mounts, £2; Similar,
3 Bars, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon BROOCH, with Ruby or Pearl,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Amethyst Gold Bar BROOCH, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNUEBS.
Gold Pin Chain and Bell,
5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond-cut Amethyßt BRACELET, trold-muunted, £4 10s ;
Padlock, £5 ss.
Amethyst Heart
A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUN'DEKS
Gall Pin Chain anl
Wishbone CHARM.
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Phea ant and (Jiesoent BROOCH, set
with Turquoise, Pearls, and Kuby, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS- „ . .
15ct. Solid Gold RROOUH, Uuby and
Diamond Heart. £2 1 03 -
A. S4.UNDEBS.
15ct. Goll Ivy Leaf and
Knot Diamond and Opal
BrtOOCH, £2 10s ;
Larger Diamond, £8
A. SAUNDERS.
15cl.tic.ia BROOCH, Pearls
and Turquoise with Ribbon,
£2 l.a
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird BROUGH, with Raised Flowers, 12s bd.
loot. 2-
A. RA.XINDF.HS.
Far Gold BROOCH. Beall. Ruby,
and Sapphire Set, 2‘2s 6d.
Very Neat Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphire and
y Pearl BROOCH, £8 10s.
A. SAUNDEHS.
Gold Dog and
Kennel CHAftM,
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Candlestick
and Mouse
CHARM, 7s «d.
A. S \TENDERS.
Gold V' fist’s
Palette and Easel
CHARM, XOs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Artist’s
Palette CHARM,
10s.
loot. Gold, 2 Dia-
monds and 3 Rubies,
255.
18ct. Puie TVmble-
cut Diamond KING,
£2los, £3.
Gold Ivy Leaf BROOCH, 12s 6d ; 15ct. Gold
Stone Set, 30s ; Diamonds, £2.
Ladies' Curb Chain
Gold Snap PAD-
LOCK, 255. 30s, 355,
40s, 455, £3 ; loct.
Gold, £2 10s, £3. £4,
£4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s,
£B, £lO.
10s extra for key
padlock, all with
safety chain.
Hi'
A. SAUNDERS. _ . _
15ct. Gold Pearl-set 2-Heart BRACELET with Love Knot and
Wings, £5 10s.
]Bct. Gold Marquise
KING, V 2 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, nr Sapphires,
£10; all Diamonds
or 3 Emeral s £l2 10 J
Larger, £l5, £l7 10s,
£2O, to £3O.
A. SAUjmDKUc.
Hand-made Wedding BINGS and Keepers 9ct.
Solid Gold, 5s fid, 7« 6d, 10s 6d ; loot. Gold, 15s ;
extra heavy, 26s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ; extra heavy,
80s, 86s, 40s ; beat quality and Finish.
18ct. Gold Halt-hoop
Five Double-out Ilia
inoud KING, £5 ;
Large Diamonds,
£6 IDs, £7 10s. £B,
18ut. Solid Gold Dia-
mond and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s, 3
Diamonds, £3.
18ct. Gold 5 Opal
RING, £2 10s ; Size
Larger, £3 10s.
41. satjnders.
IBet. Gold Half-hoop 5
Pure White Double-cut
Diamonds, £l5; Size
Smaller, £l2 10s.
A.. SAUNDERS.
2-B'tr Gold Diamond-cut Amethyst
BROOCH, 25s - 15ct. Gold,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, 2-bar Pearl-set Scioll RROOUH, £2.
A. SAUNDERS. _
9ct. Secret Name BRO iCH, 2os ; 'act. Gold, £2
an y name free.
A. SAUNDERS. ,
Ladies’ Long Gold Muff CHAINS, in Every Style and
Pattern made, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £o
10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Key,
£3 10s,
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect T'u.< keeper with
Pine Silver Oases, Dust and Watei tight, £ >
10s Extia Quality, with Cln onoiueter
Balance. £4 10s, £5, £5 10b, £6, £7, £B. Solid
In.ld £lO, £l5, £2O. A written certificate tor
•1, 4, and o years. Try one, you will not
et it.
Keyless
Job.
Free-
trade
Prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong Keliable
WATERBURY watches,
Jjong Wind, 8s fid ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model, 13s fid ;
Extra Quality, J-]jlnte,_lBs fid and£l;
Silver, 35s ; Gold, £‘i 15s. .
The reputation of these watches is a sufficient
uarantee of the reliability.
No
Ad-
vance.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
tlnrivalled Non-magnet LEVER,
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cases, Dust
and Watertight, 20s ;
Solid Silver, Sas ; Double Case, £2.
A written guarantee given with each
watch.
20s.
Black or
Nickel,
£3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
“FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.’
aSr’eHi ?o,f »»? “
above. £3 10s. Pore Solid Olive'
m. £7, £B. and £lO : Solid Hold, £l5.
£3O. A written certificate for 2,3, 4, o, a
TRY ONE.
Silver,
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s.
IMS
as
raw*
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers. Pure SoDd Silver
Hunting Cases, Extra Quality >^ ve mente,
£2 10s, £3, £3los, £4, and £5 ,OM
Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 os ; Solid Gold,
10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, and £2a.
3,4, and 5 Years’ Guarantee.
Gold
Cases,
.£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER AND OPTICIAN.
809, 811, 813. 815, 817
GEORGE-ST., OPP. RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.


TIE
QUEENSLAND,
the nearest portion of which is situated 20 miles from Esk,
On the UNFAILING FRESH WATERS of the Upper Brisbane River, within 56 miles in a direct
line from Brisbane, 90 miles by rail, or five and a-half hours’ train journey.
40,000
ACRES SUBDIVIDED INTO DAIRY FARMS
Of 100 to 3648 ACRES.
40,000
SBS:
VS
m
m
m
ass
sfr^SKss
fee
WHMJ*
WsMlgm&d
JBllilSw»®&S
Chinaman’s Flat Showing Washaway, with 30ft. of Rich Alluvial Soil.
Lucerne Flats at the Junction of Wallaby Creek and the Brisbane River
THE COLINTON ESTATE, tlie property of W. J. H. MOORE, Esq., M.L.A., has for many years been known as the
Best Battening, the Best Watered, and the Warmest Winter Country within a radius of several hundred miles from
Brisbane. The BRISBANE RIVER flows right through the centre of the property, which has a frontage of over 18
miles to each bank, or upwards of 36 miles in all. The Balance of the Estate is watered by Seventeen Creeks with
frontages to same of over 111 miles.
The Terms are up to 20 years at per cent. Interest
10 per cent. Deposit and no other payment for 2 years,
with Non-Forfeiture Clause.
Large Areas and Liberal Options. No Residential Restrictions.
NO FEES will be charged for Surveys.
f
U Jk
f.
mmSym.
FSW
** •
Ml. <***'*
'^jfe'V
MP
iw*
f 4
Lucerne Flats at Jimmy’s Gully.
Looking Down the Main Reach of the Brisbane Rivet.
The Sale by Auction will take place at the
Colinton Head Station on EASTER MONDAY, April 4,
and following 1 days, till Friday, Bth April, 1904, at Eleven o’clock each day.
ISLES, LOVE & CO., Auctioneers,
Post Office Auction Mart,, Queen Street, Brisbane.


PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
SPECTACLES
ĥ
—POE—
DEFECTIVE
VISION. t„
f OUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
sfcructions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to —
H« A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George=St., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade
ħ
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
h
Gi<o TO ECBLX.-
itiOl.AN 1* for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Prioe-Llsts gratia.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Enough of “ Reform ” parties; let us have
a “ Perform ” party !
Irvine economy about equals patching the
sleeve of the coat with the seat of the pants. It
is not economical and not decent.
“It is hard to say whether the increase
of the unemployed poor, or that of the unem-
ployed rich, is the greater social evil.”— Huxley.
Hobart Mercury :
At present the Legislative Council seems to have the
most weighty portion of public opinion on its side.
The “most weighty,” certainly : all the fat.
Victorian Opposition, hitherto misled by
Peacock, will in all probability find a new skipper
before the elections in Donald Mackinnon, member
for Prahran.
Members of N.S.W. Assembly still use
the terms “Colonial Secretary ” and “Colonial
Treasurer.” Why not “State Secretary” and
“ State Treasurer ” ?
Of Graham Berry’s colleagues in the Black
Wednesday Ministry, two remain alive and in
the public eye—Henry Cuthbert, M.L.C., and
Bryan O’Loghlen.
Said that Canadian Premier Laurier will
make Canada’s demand for independence in
making foreign treaties the chief plank in his
Government platform next elections.
Remarkable is the silence of the two
Collins-street (Melb.) dailies as to the fact that
the time for the issue of electors’ rights for the
next Vic. State election is rapidly expiring. They
are not running a Voters’ Inquiry Agency, as
they did before the Federal election. Possibly
they are appalled at the unexpected result of their
own efforts. There is a touch of humor in the
idea of Bill Smith, navvy, Mrs. Bill Smith, and
all the adult offspring thereof getting their names
on the roll per the Argus Inquiry Agency, and
then voting the Labor ticket. More awful still is
the case of many who owe their franchise to the
Age efforts and who voted for Trenwith.
N.S.W. Assembly debate of the near
future:
Mr. Boggs: Mr. Speaker, sir, in moving the adjourn-
ment—
Mr. Katsope : Rats ! Who
moved the morgue site?
Mr Boggs : I deny the
charge ! The hon. mem-
ber is a low cur and a
blue jackanapes!
(Cheers.)
Mr Whiffler: An’
you’re a pinky cow!
(Sensation.)
Mr. Speaker : Aw-
dur ! Aw-dur! Hon.
members must
Mr. O’Rafferty :
Shut up, ye
spalpeen! Ye’re
only snazin’ agin
the thunder!
(Hear, hear !)
Mr. Boodle
(sb rieking):
Mol - ro-o-ow!
You pink-eyed
jellyfish!
How’s your
mother? Yah !
(Gieafc cheer-
ing.)
Mr. Cassius
Sponge : Aw
—hem! Mis-
tah Speakah
—l—aw—
call upon
you to make
the hon.
membahaw—
withdraw
his offensive—aw —expwession.
(Cries of “ Rats ! ” and “ Sit
down ! ”)
Mr. Speaker (stentoriously) :
Aw-dur ! Aw-dtjr-r !
Mr. O’Rafferty : Yous ! Ye
miserable rat !
Mr. Boggs (hurling water
bottle at Mr. O’Rafferty) :
Take that, you Irish octopus 1
(Loud cheers.)
Mr. Boodle • That nearly hit
me.
Mr. Speaker . Er—the hon. mem-
ber must withdraw—er—at once. (Laugh-
ter.)
Mr. Boggs: What, me ? No, never !
(Cheers.)
Mr. Cassius Sponge : You must with
dwaw—aw ! (Cries of “ Withdraw !”)
Mr. O’Rafferty (faintly): I’m dead—but
I’ll niver widdraw ! (Cheers.;
Mr. Whiffler :) w ... T , .
Mr. Boodle: } Nor will I! (Cheers.)
Mr. Speaker : Oh ! very well. Then we
will go on with the motion.
Mr. Katsope : I move the Speaker out of
the Chair! (Cries of “ You can’t!’’)
The Premier: Hon. members must see that
this sort of thing, etc., etc., etc.
About the worst thing that has been said
of Deakin to date is this from the Argus :
On general politics little divides Mr. Deakin and Mr.
Reid. With the fiscal issue out of the way, it would be
perhaps difficult to differentiate between them.
A cable, showing how the tariff is advan-
taging Australia:
Delegates representing the Staffordshire potteries are
proceeding to Australia to prospect the clay of the
country and inquire into the coal supply. It is proposed
to start large pottery works in Australia.
Queensland Premier Morgan can polish
off a deputation in fine style. Courteous, and
yet firm, Morgan creates a kind of majestic
impression that simply overawes most deputa-
tionists and reduces them to a sort of apologetic
attitude. Temperance cranks, religious-instruc-
tion faddists, discontented publicans, have all
besieged him of late—and all retired badly routed
by the smiling Premier.
Elated by its success at the Federal elec-
tions the Westralian Labor party is determined to
make every member of the expiring State As-
sembly fight for his seat unless he is hall-marked
by the Labor executive. Premier James and all
his Ministry will be opposed.
British industries under Freetrade have
now to rely on the charity of the foreigner to be
let live. Cable :
A reciprocal arrangement has been entered into
between the Welsh tin-plat*, makers and the United
States Steel Trust, by which the former will buj’ the
Trust’s steel billets in return for the Trust’s subordinate
tin-plate company not exporting tin-plates to Britain.
T’other day a lorry drove up to a Mel-
bourne Government office, and the driver
laboriously rolled a heavy box into the doorway.
Thus unostentatiously arrived the Commonwealth
Seal. There will now probably be a rise in the
price of sealing-wax owing to increased consump-
tion caused by the introduction of this ponderous
instrument.
For the Ryde, N.S.W., by-election, the
Deform party ran a John Stinson and not a
Joseph Carruthers candidate: and Joseph found
himself unable to speak on his behalf: he was
either too Dusy or too ill. And from all appear-
ances, Joseph’s friends in the electorate voted for
the independent Terry rather than for the John
Stinson Deformer.
Dr. Holtze, director of the Adelaide
Botanical Gardens, who was for some years Govt.
Botanist in the Northern Territory, thinks that if
the transcontinental railway were built to Port
Darwin enough cotton could be grown in the
N.T. to supply the world, and that it would pay
the planters to carry up white cotton pickers and
employ them at decent wages for two or three
months of the year if reasonable fares were
charged on the line.
A Federal Arbitration Act extending to
railway servants does not mean—as the poisonous
daily press suggests—control by the Federal Govern-
ment of the conditions of State railway employ-
ment, but the power of reference to a court of
justice of those conditions in case of dispute. It
is not Federal control, but just control, that the
Act would give—the same just control as N.S.W.
Arbitration Court has over railway employees’
conditions in that State, and as the Federal High
Court has over disputes between a State Govern-
ment and an individual citizen.
Transvaal correspondent of London Daily
Chronicle :
As a matter of fact, nothing has actually been adduced
to show that there is a shortage of labor sufficient to
warrant the importation of 250,000 Chinese, or that any
shortage exists which could not be met by a proper
inducement in the shape of wages. Before the war there
was no cry for Chinese labor, because the mine owners
well knew the Transvaal Government would never have
permitted the Celestials to come. Now the balance of
power has shifted from the Government to the capitalists,
and the first step they take on the resumption of the
staple industry is to force this demand for cheap labor—
from anywhere you like, but at the lowest possible price.
From its beginning to its end the agitation has been not
one for labor, but for cheap labor
THE MARCH OF SCIENCE.
“A Russian surgeon conceived the idea of removing a
woman’s stomach for inveterate dyspepsia, and since then
at least a dozen people are wandering about the earth
like the live marionettes in Gilbert’s comic opera “ with
interchangeable insides.”— News Extract.
JONES: tr Of I just called to know if you could
let me have my stomach by Thursday, I have
to attend the Masons’ dinner."
Kyabram naturally became ‘ ‘ Kyabrama-
pootra”: Cranbourne will be “ Crankbourne.”
Tasmania is nearly awake
just now. Indignation meetings
are passing resolutions of
“passive resistance” with
more rebellion in them
to the inch than John-
aynes’ secession up-
rising has in a
square mile. Pre-
mier Propsting
tries to still the
storm by stat- A
ing: “It is
the plain
duty of the
Legislat i v e
Counoil t o
pay more
respect to
public opin-
ion.” Then
he adds that
the tax must
be collected.
Further out-
bursts of
revolution- <
ary zeal
make him
say that his
Government
was “pledg-
ed to secure
such reform
of the Con-
stitution as
would make
the Le g.
Council more
amenable tp
the wishes of - &
the people"; and
even that doesn’t
satisfy _ the people, who have made up
their minds that the Council must go. Gov.
Havelock, cautious representative of a Cold
Country Government that has a high respect for
its own skin, has resigned and will move his
furniture away before the battle comes too close.
The Age has at least begun to show—
what well-informed persons have known all along
—that Victoria is really one of the most lightly-
taxed countries on earth, especially as regards
municipal taxation. The highest Victorian
municipal rate is that of Footscray—2s. 6d.—the
lowest that of Echuca 9d. (which latter, owing to
the dishonestly low valuation, is really about 3d.)
Against this compare Limerick’s 11s. 3d., Cork’s
9s. 9d., Wolverhampton’s Bs., Nottingham’s
7s. 9d., Bristol’s 7s. 4d., Manchester’s 6s. sfd.
S.M. Herald’s ’‘special correspondent”
at Thursday Island:
It was thought by many that the passing into law of
the Alien Immigration Restriction Bill would spell
disaster to Thursday Island. So far these gloomy
prognostications have not been enforced by experience.
The report was widely spread, when the Bill was before
Parliament, that the industry would be transferred from
Thursday Island to Dutch New Guinea. Mr. Douglas
(the Govt, resident) supplies a complete and conclusive
reply to these predictions by pointing to the fact that
during the past year not a single lugger has changed
headquarters.
Taverner, Vic. Minister for Lands, is
throwing open 150,000 acres for selection in the
Mallee before any provision for water supply has
been made. On the strength of this year’s un-
usual rainfall, young men are being deluded into
the belief that fortunes await them in a district
where drought is the normal condition. Still it
may serve to show Victoria that Irvine hasn’t
the pluck to even attempt to carry out the work
of compulsorily resuming some of the rich Wes-
tern lands, as he boasted of being about to do a
few months ago.
STUCK TO HIS GUNS.
MASTER: “This will remind you, Peter , that the-
Antarctic Ocean is not north of Australia."
Peter (sullenly): “ Well, 'twas when I went to
Sharkey’s school. Somebody’s been shiftin’ it."
The Commonwealth Government has
shown the State Governments how to bring moral!
pressure to bear on those ex-members of Parlia-
ment who fain would stick to their free railway
passes. By allotting the free passes to constituen-
cies for the use of their representatives, it is made-
impossible for a new member to get the use of his
pass until the ex-member has returned the badge
to headquarters. So the new man brings the old
man up to the scratch.
The shire council of Kyneton (Vic.) is
another fine satire on Kyabram. It lately
endeavored to bluff the Government into pro-
mising £450 towards the repair of two bridges,
the shire to make up the balance (.£250) of the
required sum. Subsequently it .suggested that the
Government and the council should share and
share alike in the cost of these belated repairs,
and then the Government learned that the
Kyneton shire rate is only Is. in the £.
It was on the motion of John Quick, of
Bendigo, that the referendum was introduced —for
the establishment of the Commonwealth —into the
higher politics of Australia. But it was in muni-
cipal politics many years before. The payment
of mayors was voted on by referendum a decade
ago, the late Ninny Melville, ex-Chairman of
Committees (N.S.W.), a strong advocate of the
referendum, being one of the first deprived by
the ratepayers’ vote of his mayoral allowances.
“H.S.R.": Here is a platform for an
Australian party:—
(1) Australia always first.
(2) Preference to Australian-made goods.
(3) Abolition of State Governors and. Upper House*
(4) Australian navy and citizens’ army for defence only.
(5) Abolition of titles.
(6) No Australian to take up arms unless for the defence
of Australia. All Australians to bind themselves to-
defend a White Australia with arms.
(7) Taking the country out of pawn and keeping it out.
AND PLEASE DON'T FORGET THE DOG.
"Lord Tennyson to-day spoke a farewell message to
Australia into the phonograph at Government House.
The record will he preserved in the Public Library. The
directors have arranged that phonograph messages from
all the leading public men of Australia will be similarly
preserved.” —Sews Item.
The Vic. Government agricultural experts
having discovered that soft fruits —such as plums,
apricots, etc. —kept in good condition in a level
temperature of from 34° to 36° F. for at least
six weeks, the Argus is now demanding that the
Government shall establish cool stores in London.
Which is no doubt very desirable ; cool chambers-
here, properly maintained temperatures during
the voyage and cool stores at the other end, with
adequate departmental supervision and branding*
would shortly build up a great trade. But what
about the Socialism of it ?
THE “TIRED" VOTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIC.
He tells you, when you ask his vote :
“ ’E takes no interest—
The cove’s a bloomin’, sapphire goat
’Oo don’t give votin’ best! ’’
When you advance some bitter facts,
He rubs his mouth, and grins :
“ Chuck ’istory to ’Alifax—
Wot do I care ’oo wins?—
So long’s I get my usual w’acks
Of blanky beers, and gins ! ”
When you point out, by voting, he
Might get a better wage—
He fills his pipe up languidly,
And eyes a sporting page.
“ Wot’s goin’ to win the Plate ? ” he asks,
Or “ ’Ow about the Match ? ”
His soul’s hid in the brewer’s casks—
He rubs his cranium-thatch.
Quite happy while in sport he basks,
And has a skull to scratch.
Inside the “ home” his weary wife
Sits mending Johnny’s pants.
For her, existence is a strife
With.rent-day cormorants.
The mindless toiler’s wife is worth
A thousand of himself !
The searing round of debt and birth
Makes her “ dead-keen on pelf.”
And so—with eyes long void of mirth—
She votes ; poor grey-faced elf.
Her husband smiles in dull contempt—
“'E takes no interest; ”
The mate who of some winners dreamt
Pleases his ears the best.
When you submit him bitter facts,
He rubs his mouth, and grins :
“ Chuck ’istory to ’Alifax—
Wot do I care ’oo wins ?”
He’S satisfied with usual whacks
Of lengthy beers—and gins !
G.H.


THE CALLAGHAN
BOOT
FOR
LADIES.
16/6
m
m
Post Free
Duty Free
Except W.A.
Fob
NEATNESS
STYLE
COMFORT
LONG WEAR
ALL
YOU
03 OLD
DESIRE.
VVe have sizes varying so
slightly that we know we can fit
your feet as accurately as you could
wish, and we shall be pleased if you
can call and see this Boot; but if you
live too far away for that we can fill your
order exactly through our Mail Order Depart-
ment, for this or any other Boot or Shoe from our
extensive and varied stocks.
15/11; Post Free *nc« Duty Free, 16/6.
To any part of the Commonwealth exoept W.A.
A thoroughly good reliable BUTTON 800T 9 made of American glace-kid,
with a dressy stylish patent leather toe-cap. Wear as well as comfort assured.
h
CALLAGHAN BOOTS or SHOES can be EXCHANGED if not correct.
Your Money RETURNED if you are not satisfied.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorge st., Sydney.
Professor W. A. Dixon, F.1.C., F.C.S.,
Public Analyst of Sydney, testifies to the
purity of Sunlight Soap, and reports that
it contains no adultera'ion whatever.
Sunlight
SORP
REDUCES
EXPENSE
TYPEWRITERS
ĥ
3 of the World’s Best
WG4t
as
7*
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co. ADELAIDE— N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— HedIey Button.
BRIGHT’S DISEASE
Conquered Again by
VITADATIO
Read what Mr. W. Mills has to say.
Mandwrah Road,
Freemantle.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered from Bright’s Disease of
the Kidneys in an aggravated form, and having tried
many so-called cures, I felt it my duty to inform you
that after a course of VITADATIO I obtained great
relief, which now appears to be permanent, and am now
so well as to be able to attend to my business, the duties
of which are no sinecure.
You are at liberty to make what use you please of this
letter, as I consider that anyone troubled with kidney
complaints cannot do better than give VITADATIO a
fair trial.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) W. MILLS,
Of Mills and Ware,
Biscuit Manufacturers,
Freemantle, W.A.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N.,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Oonnell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Progressive Office Methods
Simplifying and minimising the work.
Giving better results, and quicker reference
to any matter.
Most approved system of keeping Letters (in
and out), Invoices, Receipts, Quotas
tions, Records of Stock, Indent, &c.
THE CARD LEDGER —New way of keeping
accounts.
WABASH OFFICE
SYSTEHS
SAVE TIME, MONEY AND LABOR.
Catalogues, Prices and all particulars
sent free on request.
JOHN SANDS,
374 GEORGE ST„
SYDNEY,
Sole Agent for Australia.
Queensland Agent:
H. J. Diddams & Co.
Brisbane.
Victorian Agency :
(Opening this month),
Melbocrke.
About the man who invented trams :
George Francis Train, who was shunted into the
“ mortuary station ” last week, started the horse trams
in London as well as in the United States. If he had
not plunged into politics thirty-five years ago, Train
might have become a millionaire. As a politician and
platform orator, George Francis was a sort of extrava-
gant enlargement of our own King O’Malley. He did his
best to pass himself off as a “screaming eagle,” and
enjoyed the joke when the American public classed him
as a barn-door fowl. But for his ever-present sense of
humor, Train might have been accepted seriously when
he ran for the Presidency. His “ platform ” consisted of
women’s right to vote, total abstinence, and self-goverm
ment for Ireland. Train had managed to keep going on
cold water all his life, and he was down on grog. He
visited Australia in 1854, and on his return home boasted
that he had enjoyed the pure, cold water of the Yarra
Yarra and Parramatta rivers. In 1863 Train went to
Ireland on a lecturing tour. He was arrested and gaoled
as an agent of the Fenian Brotherhood. As there was no
evidence against him he was released, but a few weeks
later a writ for debtua* served on him by an English
firm, and he was imprisoned a second time. Swindled
out of his interest in the English tramways, George
Francis went back to America.
A WOMAN’S COMPLEXION.
It is rank foolishness to attempt to remove
sallowness or greasiness of the skin by the use of
cosmetics, or “local” treatment, as advocated by
the “beauty doctors.” The only safe and sure
way that a woman can improve her complexion is
by purifying and enriching the blood, which can
only be accomplished by keeping the liver healthy
and active. The liver is the seat of disease and
blood pollution. Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets act directly on the liver, cleanse
and enrich the blood, and purify the complexion.
They also cure constipation, biliousness, nervous-
ness, and induce refreshing sleep. A single box of
Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets has
been known to cure the most pronounced and
distressing case of indigestion. Sold everywhere.
Is. 6d.*
advertised last week that a Bar of
Williams’ Barbers’ Soap
Weighed “16 Honest English Ounces.”
WE WERE WRONG, and we desire to thank our
friends the Customs Authorities for putting us right.
The Collector at the Port rules that on every case
containing 100 Bars of Williams’ Shaving Soap (each
Bar being sold to our friend the Barber as A POUND
OF SIXTEEN OUNCES)
WE MUST PAY DUTY ON A WEICHT OF lUlbB.
ħ
WILLIAMS’ is the only
SHAVING SOAP that pays
DUTY on a greater weight
than the Barber pays for.
THE PRICE PER BAR
REMAINS THE SAME.
As good citizens we cheerfully contribute the extra 3/6
per case to the Commonwealth Revenue. The Agents,
The J. B. Williams Co., Glaslonhurv. Conn.. U.S.A.
Missing Friends.
THOMAS WARMAN BATHE, of Wiltshire,
England, who about 55 years ago went to Australia,
or his descendants, are requested to write to the under-
signed, when they will hear of something to their
advantage. JOHN T. S. COLE, SHAW FARM,
SWINDON, WILTSHIRE, ENQLANI).
"|7VANS, MARY ANNE, formerly married to the late
William Patterson, and afterwards to one Green-
wood, last heard of at Goulburn ; and SYDNEY
EDWARD EVANS, who left Sydney over 20 years ago.
Children of the late William and Anne Evans, of Sydney,
or any person knowing their whereabouts, or that of
their children, are requested to communicate with
JAMES W. EVANS,
Weights and Measures Office, Sydney.
P & B
ANNOUNCEMENT,
IN order to promote closer business relations with the many users of
P & B materials throughout Australasia, we have opened an office
at 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W., under the management of Mr.
William Baldwin, who has recently returned from a visit to our Refinery
and Factories, where the manufacture of P & B materials was commenced
over 25 years ago by the original promoters, Messis. Pearce & Beardsley.
Years of research and careful experiments have enabled us to add
another high-grade portable roofing to our line, known as P & B Malthoid
Roofing, which we ask you to accept as the latest and best 20th century
Roofing, because we have had over 20 years’ experience in the manufacture
and use of Patent Roofings (and other kindred lines) during which time
we have always supplied a roofing that has given better satisfaction than
any other made for similar purposes.
We are Refiners of certain minerals from which we secure a most
valuable mineral flux of which P& B materials are largely composed. It
might have been cheaper to have used something else, as others are
doing, but it would not have been wise. It is this “one only ” mineral
which made the reputation of P & B materials 20 years ago, and which
has ever since perpetuated their life and usefulness. P& B has been the
standard of excellence in Roofings and other materials for many years.
For samples and fullest particulars re genuine P & B address—
The Paraffine Paint Company.
William Baldwin-,
Australasian Representative.
117 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Burroughs, Welcome and Co., English
manufacturing chemists, secured, in the English
Chancery Court, last December, an injunction
against another firm selling drugs as “tabloid.”
8., 'W. and Co. claimed to have invented and
copyrighted that word, and the cla.in was sus-
tained. The Bulletin remembers 8., W. and
Co.’s Australian representative claiming, some
months ago, that we must not use the word
“tabloid,” except in description of the firm’s
goods; but didn’t consent to be frightened off the
use of a rather handy and elegant word in that
way. It’s 8., W. and Co.’s word for trade pur-
poses ; for literary purposes, the firm should
donate it to the language.
“ P.T.F.” : Present system of subsidising
mail steamers for war emergencies is a reversal of
an ancient English custom. In the reign of
Henry 111., the royal ships were hired to mer-
chants for freight purposes, and the custom did
not end till the reign of Elizabeth, late in the
sixteenth century. The earlier trading voyages
to Italy and the Levant, during the last quarter
of the fifteenth century, were all made by hired
men of war. Merchants found it cheaper to hire
warships than to build vessels capable of resisting
pirates. \


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUEANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
h
t Galling at Hobart. * Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-streec.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. W ILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—^
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
bills
discounted.
KT.S/W.
(UontdepieteD.sl.Co->[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT. General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney , Limited .
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,040,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,040,000 0 0
DIRECTORS :
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.O.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
CO. (Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Bents also assured.
Marine Risks > •
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessou, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £10,494 16 9
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; lion. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BOIIROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
r x cono's
f SS^ c£ ° f \,\ ? £ -
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, D ;E ILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 128., or four quantities in one, 368. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. _
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St. f
Melbourne; JV.S.IP.-Faulding: & Co., 16 O’Connell
Bt., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Shipping.
KT. D. JL-.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
ĥ
•Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 2nd MARCH.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about 17th FEBRUARY,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEYIC, and PERSIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 oto £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company , Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beicon3fiald Parade
BT. HILDA.
THE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
Q CEA.KTIO STEAMSHIP COMPAKTY.
A. AND A. LINE.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Special Rates, Including St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
‘—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Bob. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Robirts
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305 - assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to l’ol icy holders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eauitably distributed.
Plead Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. £2,500,000
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAM ES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350.000
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
rHLORODYNE
Caution, —G enuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of tliis well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAKKHCEA, &c -. bears
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to ba
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlouodvne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
MOANA, FEBRUARY 29.
The Most Popular Steamer on the
Pacific.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
MARCH 21, APRIL 18.
The Route to St. Louis or to England
via St. Louis.
Full Particulars Furnished & Itineraries Prepared.
Illustrated Pamphlets Sent Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passengei Agent.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT lillt. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP ..£457,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175.997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 62,000
£695,463
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edvvd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
flodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
To Shipowners, Railway Companies,
and all Users of Steam.
as
tee
(0-1 •. 1 .
rr
eriEO)
c tP
Ample testimony is given by expert
engineers that by the use of the
Spiral Steam Tube Cleaner Co.’s
apparatus best results are obtained
in cleaning in a few minutes as
against hours by the old method
without wear or tear on the tubes. No
up-to-date FIRM or CORPORATION
using steam should be without this
appliance ; as an economiser of fuel
it pays for itself in a few months, and
the marvellous rapidity and effective-
Why run risks of boiler
explosions? Loss of time
in long passages, etc., etc. ?
(Fide extract of paragraph
re the sad disaster of H.M.S. Wallaroo in Herald
of 8/l/’o4)Constant patching, he said, was
necessary in order to keep the boilers in working
condition, and it was only with the greatest diffi-
culty that steam could be raised for anything like
halt’ the
assumed
in dieated
horse
power.”
ness with which it does its work not only prolongs the life but leaves no excuse for dirty tubes.
NOTE.—SAVES TIME, SAVES FUEL, SAVES WEAR and TEAR on the tubes,
minimises risk of accident.
All particulars and numerous testimonials may be seen at the office of
THE SPIRAL STEAM TUBE CLEANER COMPANY, Ltd,, 17 Bridge-st., Sydney,
J. 11. DKCIiNT, Manager.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMIT lib).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
toall North Western Ports
S.S. Innamincka, Friday,
Feb. 5, at 5 p.m. (Tran-
shipping at Melbourne).
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
Feb. 13, at 10 a.m. (With-
out Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Claims
S. S. Rockton, Feb. 6, at Noon
S.S. Innamincka, Feb. 13,
at Noon.
S.S. Gabo, Feb. 20, at Noon.
liest and Cheapest lionte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can he ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
POUT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: -
ħ
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Cmna
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISU
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meal)
the passengers for London and give them every assistanoa
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris'and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
■ ■ It. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent. _
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . •
“E. AND n.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
h
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe ri% Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
H. NEWMAN’S
KEYLESS
WORKERS’ WATCH
sum
a
it!
Specially imported by H. NEWMAN.
Strong, Beautifully Chased, Oxydised Case,
Emblematical of the 8 Hours principle, f-plate
movement, 2 pair extra jewels and guaranteed a
perfect timekeeper.
Every Worker in the State should have one
Price 30s* (post free to any address).
H. NEWMAN,
312 Bourke St., Melbourne
(Adjoining Buckley & Nunn’s).
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTERS
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches <fc all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTEB’-S
NEB VINE. Of aU Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson. M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S wDRSD'i l’s PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness. Head ache.
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints,
Of all Stores.
“F.”: Somebody protests that the term
“boshter” doesn’t rightly apply to David Syme,
of Melb. Age, seeing that “boshter” in the
Australian slanguage means “a splendid person
or thing.” Well, splendid means famous in the
dictionary, not to say conspicuous. David Syme
has been long noted for his political power
among Victorians. In his political aspect he was
a “ baffled boshter” when Trenwith got to the top
of the Vic. poll at the election of Senators.


Mr. E. N. WALLERINS, Vermillion, Minn.,
writes:
“My little g-irl, Julia, was taken with a COUGH, and
at times was prostrated with fever.” JAYNE’S
EXPECTORANT CURED HER."*
The man on the land is always in trouble,
but his troubles end when he places his business
in the hands of Land Agent W. N. Willis, of 21
Bligh-street. No results, no fees, is his business
shingle.*
Debility Promptly Ended.
Bile Beans are Invaluable During the
Summer Season.
With Summer comes that weary, wornout feel-
ing. Women, more particularly, are sufferers in
this respect, owing partly to their confinement in
the house, and not getting plenty of fresh air, and
owing a great deal to the delicate constitution of
the female organs, which give way under the strain
of work and worry. To all women who are feeling
“done up” at this time of the year, a course of
Bile Beans will prove of immense benefit. They
brace up and give tone to the various organs, thus
strengthening the whole system. As a striking
illustration, Mrs. E. J. Ramus, of 1 Arundle-
street, Forest Lodge, Sydney, says: —“Your Bile
Beans have proved a valuable remedy in my
household. I am sometimes troubled with De-
bility, especially during the hot weather, and
when I feel ‘ done up ’ with a tired, listless feel-
ing, I take a Bean or two, with beneficial results.
As a gentle purgative, they are all that can be
desired, and leave no evil after-effects whatever.
I can safely say Bile Beans are unequalled for
poor appetite, sleeplessness, and that out-of-sorts
feeling so prevalent at the present season.” Bile
Beans have been proved a reliable cure for Bilious-
ness, Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles,
Debility, Female Weaknesses, Nervousness, Bad
Blood, Bad Breath, Anaemia, Insomnia, Loss of
Appetite, Summer Fag, and, in fact, all ailments
ar sing from defective liver action. Bile Beans
are obtainable from all medicine vendors, price
Is. lgd., or 2s. 9d. large box.*
A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE.
“ A lady customer of mine was so pleased with
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which she had
used for her children when suffering from colds
and croup, that during a fortnight’s time she
obtained at my shop,” writes F. W. J. Fletcher,
chemist, Home’oush, “ nine bottles, which she
sent to her friends in different parts of the State,
telling them how much good Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy had done, and advised them to
give it a trial.” Sold everywhere, Is. 6d.*
There would be some points in a Chow-
canning industry. Two ancient returning cab-
bage-growers died on a Chinese steamer a while
ago, some days out from Thursday Island. The
other Mongols on board waited on the ship’s
doctor, and asked the cost of embalming. He
wanted £l5 apiece. The Celestials paid up
cheerfully. Between 400 and 500 Chinese die
in Australia yearly : a canning factory that
would tin the corpses for export to China at,
say, £lO a head, would make money.
OPEN SESAME. —Hunyadi Janos Water is
the “open sesame” of the human organism.
Speedy, sure, and gentle, it fulfills every indication
in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensable to millions of
human beings all over the world.*
FOR THE DEAF.
Realising that there is a great public need for
better knowledge of the causes, prevention, and
cure of deafness, an English popular medical
journal devoted the whole of its last issue to a
treatise on defective hearing, the ear, nose and
throat ailments. Anatomy, physiology, hygiene,
and treatment are described in language suitable
for popular reading, the work forming, in fact, a
pamphlet which everyone should possess. Copies
of this work are ready for free distribution, and to
obtain one, the reader has only to send name and
address to—“ Review ”c/o box 241 G.P.O. Sydney.
With the “ Review ” there is also a report form by
means of which anyone can obtain free advice by
post.*
BEAUTIFUL EYES ft LASHES.
MORRIS’S^
imperial
* *
©intment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-,
Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melbl
IMPERIAL."
chemists & stores.
Legal Notice.
WHEREAS by an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice
made in the Matter of the Estate of Clara Sparrow
deceased Williams against Swallow 1902 S. 2551
the following enquiries were directed namely (1)
An enquiry who was the heir at law of the Intes-
tate the said Clara Sparrow at the time of her
death (the 22nd day of November 1899) and
whether such heir at law is living or dead and if
dead who by devise descent or otherwise is
entitled to such real Estate if any of the said
Intestate as descended to such heir at law. And
(2) An enquiry who were the persons entitled by
virtue of or according to the Statute of distribution
of Intestate Estates to the personal estate of the
said Clara Sparrow living at the time of her death
and whether any of them are since dead and if so
who are their respective legal personal representa-
tives.
Notice is hereby given that all persons claiming
under the said Enquiries or the legal personal
representatives of such of them as may be dead
are by their Solicitors on or before the 21st day of
April 1904 to come in and prove their claims at
the Chambers of Mr. Justice Far well and Mr.
Justice Swinfen Eady at the Royal Courts of
Justice Strand London England or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said Order Thursday 'the 28th
day of April 1904 at 11.30 of the clock in the
forenoon at the said Chambers is appointed for
hearing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this 23rd day of December 1903
Note —The said Clara Sparrow sometimes called
Hannah Sparrow was at the time of her death the
widow of William Chambers Sparrow of Grafton
Street North Melbourne in the Colony of Victoria
Custom. House-Officer deceased, and for some time
previously she was living at Hawthorn Villa
Underdale Road Shrewsbury in the County of
Salop in England and it is alleged, that she had a
child who was known by the name of Philip
Henry Seymour who is believed to be resident at
Sydney, New South .Wales. .i
J. C. FOX
Master
-- CHESTER &- Co
36 Bedford Row
London, England.
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
WHAT THE
WORLD
YEARNS FOR.
1. A Bitter Drink which
does not intoxicate.
2. A Drink more recuper-
ative and sustaining
than alcohol.
3. A morning Drink to
take away Headaches
and a sour taste in
the mouth.
4. A Drink which, taken
before meals, creates
appetite.
5. A Drink to counteract
the deleterious effects
of over-indulgence.
6. A Drink for that all-
gone feeling in the
stomach at 11 a.m.
7. A Palatable, Bitter
Drink which, at the
same time, is a
strengthening medi-
cine, tonic, and pick-
me-up.
8. A Drink which does
good to the Stomach,
Liver and Kidneys,
and saves Doctors*
Bills.
FISHCR * CO.’S
Mighty ‘Alok’
SUPPLIES THESE
LONG-FELT WANTS.
This famous Tonic is freshly prepared
from the celebrated African Kola Nuts
(cola acuminata ), with invaluable addi-
tions, the secret of which is known only
to the sole proprietors, Fisher and Co.
Refuse all imitations, and insist upon
being served with “Alok”—the original
and genuine, which has received so
many medals and testimonials, and has
had over £25,000 spent upon its intro-
duction to Australia.
Every Leading Hotel, with
Soda Water, 6d per Glass.
All Chemists, 2s 6d and 3s 6d per bottle.
Pattinson & Co., and all Branches.
Washington H. Soul & Co.
Anthony Hordern & Sons.
Lassetter & Co.
Civil Service and Stores.
Manofactukebs :
FISHER & COMPANY
Chemists and Druggists,
337 GEORGE STREET,
Opp. G.P. Office, Sydney.
Mg}
Tt d.
MADAME ALBANI,
The Queen of Song, and Friend of Her
Majesty Queen Victoria,
Always drank “ALOK,” especially
when she had fatiguing work to do.
Madame Patti never speaks a word on
the days when she has to sing. Nor does
Madame Albani, who otherwise takes less
care of her voice than the diva, and only
fears indigestible food—salmon, nuts, and
suchlike. Both declare they never “even
look ” at tea, which hardens the vocal
chords. Madame Albani believes implicitly
in the virtues of a cold bath and a refresh-
ing drink of Mighty Alok. Madame Albani
has written expressing her great belief in
“Alok,” and stating it is of great assistance
to anyone who has fatiguing work to do.
A DRINK, A TONIC
ana A MEDICINE.
You can get it at every Hotel in Austra-
lia, with Soda Water, 6d. per glass.
w
AND
m
n j
(iO WELL TOGETHER
DURING WOT WEATHER
Picks you up and makes you eat*
THE ELEVEN O’CLOCK RUSH.
Yes.
"Alok
No.
Other
BE
J
O
J
a
Mighty,
MIGHTY
rr
ALO
ALOK
For that All-Gone Feeling: in the Stomach
at 11 a.m. drink MIGHTY ALOK,
FOR WE ALL TAKE IT !
Australians in London.
“ L.M.” sends some gossip of artistic Australians
now in London:
I went to see Harold Parker yesterday. Through a
biting wind, that presently developed into a fall of snow,
I fought my way with a friend to the Stamford Bridge
studios, off the Fulham-road. Who is Harold Parker?
A sculptor hailing from Brisbane. For some time he
studied there under Godfrey Rivers. Seven years ago he
left Australia and came to London to study further. The
other day someone said to me : “ Do you know Harold
Parker? He is a sculptor, and comes from Australia.”
I thought hard. I couldn’t recall even his name.
That well-known sculptor, John Tweed, had seen
Harold Parker’s work, and had said of it—“ It is some of
the finest stuff I have seen.” John Tweed gave, and is
giving, Harold Parker what work he can give, and help-
ing him in the generous way a famous artist helps an
unknown, but clever, younger brother. Why doesn’t
Brisbane commission this poor struggling fellow to do its
Queen Victoria ?—if it must have a Queen Victoria.
Last year Harold Parker exhibited at the Academy, for
the first time. His work was a girl’s head, called
“Esther.” Simple, unconscious, it scarcely prepared
one for the piece of sculpture he is at present working at,
an “ Ariadne ”as lovely as can be imagined. It is this
Ariadne that has provoked Mr. Tweed’s admiration.
Ariadne is shown as a kneeling woman, her hands held
out before her in pleading.
Sculptors have been banding together lately, with a
view_ to guarding their interests. A meeting of the
leading London men was held at Derwent Wood’s
house last week ; George Frampton in the chair, and
nearly forty artists present. They discussed their
grievances in a large studio, opening off the front hall, a
room which is known as “ the Museum,” by Derwent
Woods, but which is, in effect, our Florence Schmidt’s
music-room, with her grand piano at one end, and her
songs and operas lying about.
Derwent Wood is passionately fond of music, and when
at home is generally to be found somewhere in the
vicinity of the piano, which his wife plays while he sings.
The Other day Florence Schmidt went over to her hus-
band’s studio at Chelsea, about half an hour’s walk from
their home. Picking up some clay, she cried, “ You sing
my songs ! I’m going to model in your clay ! ” and pro-
ceeded to mould Derwent Wood’s head. In a few minutes
the soprano had turned out a quite remarkable likeness
of her sculptor, who was delighted with her effort. “By
Jove ! you know, there’s something about that I wish to
goodness I could get into my work I It’s quite early-
Florentine 1 ”
Does anyone in Sydney remember Miss Darragh ? She
came out with Cartwright on his last and somewhat un-
lucky tour to Australia, was fair-haired, slight, sprightly,
and always exquisitely gowned. In “ The Idler ” she
played the American girl; in “Moths” she was Lady
Dolly ; but, whatever she was, she never created any en-
thusiasm except over her gowns. That was six years
ago. And now ? Well, now she stands acclaimed by
London critics as one of the few "great actresses.” The
praise poured pown on her is almost wildly extravagant.
It is rather annoying to think that no one in Australia
ever foretold this success, or even hinted at its proba-
bility. As a matter of fact, Miss Darragh was looked
upon as the least striking actress in the whole company.
Another actor who didn’t make any stir in Australia,
but is now doing big work in London, is Basil Gill, late
of Wilson Barrett’s co., now Tree’s leading man. He and
his pretty wife, Marjorie, have settled in England for some
years, and bought a house at Putney.
The Australian Ladies’ Vocal Quartette (ugly name !)
is quite an institution now in London. The present
composition is Kate Rooney, Kate Traill, Queenie Cadden
and Constance Evelyn. But there is shortly to be a
change, Miss Evelyn leaving.
Few singers have done as well as Alice Hollander in
London. She goes steadily and rapidly onward, and
figures at most of the leading concerts—her name in big
letters—among the stars.
Melb. Argus unintentionally dated one of
its pages in accordance with its opinions the other
day, thus:
THE ARGUS, FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 1094.
Melbourne clerks have of late been weary-
ing the public with pitiful tales of sweating, but
when the Clerks’ Union called a meeting lately to
discuss grievances and propose remedies, only 45
of the white-handed sweated attended, and
several of them declined to have anything to do
with a body that was affiliated with the Trades
Hall Council.
A retired Indian officer, now visiting Aus-
tralia, told a Perth interviewer, the other day,
that there exists a great deal of unrest among the
natives of India, and it would take very little to
make them revolt. A desire for independence is,
he says, the sole cause of the trouble.
Complained again that, though the
S’African war medals were distributed two years
back, the bars to go with them have not yet
reached the heroes, who miss them sorely. It is
about the only sort of bar they can hope to breast
now.
The prickly pear, besides having saved
thousands of cattle during the drought, is now
discharging another useful function. There have
been several cases lately of people lost in the
Queensland bush who have sustained life by
eating the fruit. An old woman of 70 years, lost
for several days in the Rockhampton district,
admitted when found that she had lived on pear
all the time, and found herself little the worse
for her experience.
A sensible correspondent to the daily
papers: —
The teaching in State schools of English history instead
of Australian in the early stages is an unpardonable
anomaly. In fact, most children attending small schools
never learn a word of Australian history. I have been
repeatedly asked how such names as Lang, Wentworth,
Dailey, &c., were given to the Federal electorates. At
present the usual custom is to start the history instruc-
tion with a people called Celts, and teach a lot of more or
less fabulous stories about Saxons, Danes, Romans, Nor-
mans, &c., which neither interest nor instruct. Should
not a thoroughly detailed account of our own history be
taught to the future rulers of the country ?
“K.K.” gives impressions of a wallaby-
tour through Victoria: —
Daylesford.—Every second man you meet looks like an
undesirable immigrant, and it’s 10 to 1 his name ends
with “ otti,” “ ini,” or “ zoni.”
Ballarat.—Tie a piece of blue ribbon on your coat (if
you have one), and talk admiringly of John Wesley. Also
say something disparaging of Bendigo, and you will have
the freedom of the city presented to you, with a bottle
of lemonade.
Hamilton.—lf you want a job, and a man asks you a
question, pretend to be deaf, and say, loudly, “ Hoot!
A’m Scotch.” That will fetch the job nine cases out of
ten.
Gippsland.—When you strike a hamlet call on the
president of the local Deform League and deplore the
present trend of Socialistic legislation. Say you believe
in eight hours for farm laborers. (Eight before dinner
and eight after— with an hour or two extra during the
busy season.)
Bendigo.—Ourse Bent, praise Lansell, and scoff at
Ballarat.
Prosser v. Sheane, in the City of London
Court a few weeks ago, before Judge Rentoul,
was a lovely case. A clerk borrowed £2O from a
shark in 1886 at 25 per cent. He could not repay.
The sum swelled at compound interest. By the
year 1903 it had mounted up to £lOO, which he
bad paid in interest, and the plaintiff sued for a
a further £153! Said the Judge :“I will make
an order for one farthing a month.”


Sick Headache
Cubed by Db. Moese’s Indian Root Pills.
When the food is improperly digested and
becomes clogged in the intestines, sick headache
is almost sure to follow. Dr. Morse's Indian
Root Pills strike at the cause aiding digestion—
cleansing the system and making the stomach
clean and pure. They assist nature in the dis-
charge of all her functions, increase the appetite,
produce sound sleep and give elasticity to the
spirits. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
permanent cure for all diseases arising from a
disordered condition of the stomach, liver arid
kidneys. They purify the blood and make it rich
and red, and are a positive cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, piles, pimples, boils and blotches and for
female ailments. Packed in amber bottles and
sold throughout Australasia.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE ... LACE!
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST„ REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Mayor Cohen, of Adelaide, was very sore about
certain badinage indulged in at his expense by cricketer
Bosanquet in a letter written to the St. James’ Gazette,
London. Matters have been set right by the cricketer,
who sent an apology in which he assures Mr. Cohen that
what was taken for ridicule was meant in sober earnest.
* . « * *
Joe Darling, ex-captain of the Australian
Eleven, is doing very well on his Tasmanian holding and
will not sacrifice his prospects by playing further cricket.
Performances in the inter-State match gave
little information as to prospective changes in the test
team. M'Leod failed as a bowler, but was a great batting
success; Hopkins failed yet again in batting, but saved
his bacon by his form with the ball. Cotter’s meteoric
flash (his career of success lasted for about three over 3)
fairly won the match for his side, but, unless followed up
in the coming match N.S.W. v. England, will not get him
in the fourth test. The Australian selectors, with Warner
one game in, can’t throw away chances, or indulge in any
specs.
r * * * *
Laver, as captain of the Victorians in the
last inter-State match, appeared to trifle with the
chances of his side in the interests of Harry Trott.
The veteran was bowled right out, and 134 runs were
scored off him. Armstrong, whose position in the test
match was assured, was not put on to bowl until 360
runs were scored ; only 29 runs were made afterwards,
and Armstrong’s figures were three for 10. In test
matches Armstrong is usually second change. The
proper wav to bowl Harry Trott would seem to be a few
overs every now and then. When he is persevered with
the batsmen get used to his slows, and help themselves
with impunity.
* * * #
“At first it was Mr. P. F. Warner’s Eleven;
then, after two or three successes, it became the Maryle-
bone Eleven ; after a few more wins, the England Eleven !
Nothing succeeds like success.”— English paper.
* * * *
“ Bulli ” : Comparing the attendance at the
Queensland v. England fixture with that at the third test
match (in Adelaide), it should be good business to play a
test-match at Brisbane instead of Adelaide. The esti-
mated number who witnessed Q. v. England struggle was
—Friday, 6000; Saturday, 14,000 ; and Monday, 1500—
practically as many as watched the test. Almost double
that number could be depended upon if a test were
played at Brisbane. The wicket and ground are quite
equal to Adelaide’s.
* * * *
Claxton, of S.A., whom many consider worthy
of test match honors, put up a good all-round perform-
ance last Saturday, scoring 127 not out, and getting three
wickets for 35 runs.
* * * *
Tasmanian team sprung something of a surprise
on Warner’s combination when, after putting only 141
together in their opening effort, there were but three out
for 350 in the next. First partnership (Savigney and
Douglas) of second innings produced 202, and Savigney,
at stumps draw, was 164 not out. Every member of the
visiting combination had a trial with the ball. British
first innings score was 353.
* * * *
Hopkins’ 30 wickets tops all other Australian
bowlers’ bags in first-class cricket this season, and the
only Britisher ahead of him is Rhodes with 42.
* ♦ * *
About the most remarkable cricket incident on
record is reported to have taken place in a Melbourne
Junior Association competition. It was the final match
of the series, and the result was practically a foregone
conclusion for the team that had to come ten miles to
play. On the road out the overworked van-horses went
on strike and refused to budge. The ground was three
miles distant and the match due to start in 20 minutes.
The captain knew’ that if he was not ready to play, the
game must be forfeited, and a certain victory lost. He
accordingly struck a bargain with a passing cyclist, and
arrived on the scene five minutes before time, won the
toss and sent the other side in, declining all assistance in
the field. Ten minutes were occupied in getting ready,
and the first ball went to the boundary for 4. The soli-
tary player strolled leisurely after it, carried it up to the
crease, and after further delay bowled again, which re-
sulted in another 4. In the meantime the others of the
team were arriving on foot, and the game commenced in
earnest, resulting in the expected win for the visitors.
* * * *
In North v. South Island match (Maoriland),
played at Wellington on January 21, 22, 23, two ex-
Australians—Graham, of Melbourne, and Callaway, of
Sydney (coaches respectively at Dunedin and Christ-
church)—battled for the South Island. Graham- was
troubled with that old internal wound of his. He made
10 runs, and was clean bow’led by Aucklander Stemson.
Callaway was in good form with the bat, but was better
with the ball. He made 17 in four hits, and secured four
wickets for 19 runs.
* * • •
A bookmakers’ strike brought the Ballarat
Miners’Turf Club meeting to “an untimely end” (vide
Age report). Hatwood, an odds-on favorite, appeared to
be winning the January Handicap in the proverbial
canter, when an outsider came along in a hurry and
appeared to beat the dead-bird decisively on the post.
The judge, however, was positive that Hatwood won by
a head, and as he refused to be scared out of his decision
by the howls and yells of the angry Hebrew, as many of
him as were there present took off his bag and
collectively discontinued betting. Needless to say,
the demonstration against the judge was all on the
part of Israel. If an odds-on favorite had appeared
to beat a rank outsider and the judge had decided
against the public fancy, and the public had hooted, the
poor man would have been warmly cheered by his admir-
ing champion, Moses aforesaid.
“L.W.”: After all, horse-racing is an utterly I
useless form of sport, and a demoralising influence
generally. The old contention that it improved the
breed of horses is the wildest joke ever put forward in
the disguise of an excuse. About the only sort of moke
which doesn’t race nowadays is the splendid upstanding
Clydesdale draught—the most useful as well as the finest
sample of horseflesh. Under the euphonious terms of
“ ponies ” and “little ’uns,” every miserable, undersized
equine beast is made, providing it has any speed qualifi-
cations, a medium for gambling, and a means to the
physical deterioration of small boys who are engaged to
ride the rubbish. It may not be able to travel faster
than a healthy schoolboy, but providing a dozen or so
others, weak and miserable as itself, can be got together,
it becomes the best of its “ class,” men bet on it, and
people pay admission to see it flounder along. The
justification of all sport is the improvement of the
species. Cricket, iootball, running, jumping, boxing,
rowing, swimming, and even billiards, are all justified on
this ground; but horse-racing can only plead that it
turns out spielers, bookmakers, and undersized jockeys.
» * * *
Warwick Farm (Sydney) meeting on Saturday
was chiefly remarkable for the failure of all the favorites
and the remarkable success of the mares, which won
three out of five events.
* * * •
Latest Tasmanian Turf Club’s meet, at Laun-
ceston, supplied a tote record. Fourteen events extend-
ing over two days induced investments totalling
£15,653, as against £12,546 last year. Anticipated that
profit on the meeting will reach £BOO.
* * « *
Faithful's annexation of S.T.C.’s Anniversary
Handicap was accomplished in a hollow fashion : she
just came away in the straight when required, and went
in front of Ruenalf 11., with Bridegroom, the favorite, a
very bad third. In spite of promising track work, she
started at 4 and 5 to 1 against, and the anxiety of the
bookmakers overnight to lay against her filled the minds
of punters wdth dark suspicions. The mare was bred at
Durham Court stud by Metal from Devotion, by Beau,
champ from Brenda, by The Tester. She won thre p
races in Northern N.S.W. during 1901-2 season. Time
(2.36) is a record for the race since its increase to 1J miles
nine years ago.
* * * *
One Sydney stable especially should prove
particularly strong at coming Caulfield meeting. Suc-
cessful trainer Dick O’Connor has taken over Pendant
(recent Carrington Stakes winner), Fungus, Sea Kale,
Orry and Canadian, the majority of which should win
races.
* * * *
Bitter antipathy still exists in England to Aus-
tralian starting gate, where it is blamed for delays and
poor starts that ought never to occur under proper
management or unless deliberately caused. What was
possible under old conditions was shown in the English
“ Racing Calendar ” for October 21. 1859 : —Northallerton
and North Riding Meeting.—North York Nursery Hand icap
Plate of £lOO, given by the fund, for two year olds.
Thirteen starters. After more than an hour had been
fruitlessh' spent in endeavoring to start them, the
acting steward declared the race void. Jockies Snowden
and Bullock were suspended, and Withington and
Grimmer were fined £lO each.” Which explains why the
horses couldn’t be started.
• * * *
“0.K.”: There is no truth in the statement
that “The V.R.C. waited on the postal authorities with
a brassy request that they should be allowed a censorship
over all messages banded into telegraph offices on race-
courses.” The V.R.C. has taken no part in the trouble,
which cropped up a while ago between the Telegraph
Department and the proprietors of sundry Melbourne
suburban racing “ clubs,” who would like to exercise
a censorship over messages despatched from the course.
Neither would the object of such censorship be “to
prevent the despatch of racing results to hotels for the
convenience of betters who didn’t go near the course.”
The matter in dispute is just this. Some of the suburban
racecourse bosses reckoned that the attendance of
punters at their precious meetings would be increased if
there were no facilities for telegraphing from the
course the names of the intended starters for
each race half an hour before the event. The
list of starters, being sent along to Melbourne
and elsewhere, is circulated among the s.p. bookmakers
in town. Their punting clients are thus enabled to pick
their fancy after the starters’ numbers are hoisted, the
same as though they were at the scene of action. To
prevent this enlightenment of the stay-at-home public,
the racecourse proprietors were at first inclined to dis-
pense with telegraph-offices altogether. Finding that
the proposed remedy was worse than the disease, they
had the gall to ask for authority to prevent the despatch
of telegrams intended to convenience s.p. bookmakers
and punters. Their claim to control in anyway the work-
ing of a public telegraph service was preposterous from
the political point of view ; nevertheless, its avowed
object, although purely selfish, has the sympathy of
everyone who knows the evils of s.p. betting in town.
Better that another twenty, fifty, or a hundred infatuated
punters should go to the racecourse to gamble than that
a thousand should develop the pernicious habit of haunt-
ing a bookmaker’s shady den for the purpose of picking a
fancy from the telegraphed list of starters.
ifc * * *
Crack Sydney jockey A. Richardson made a
big punch at Glen Innes last week. He had a mount in
every race of a two days meet, winning five, and finishing
second in five others. Recruit, handled by Richardson,
scored thrice and was second once. Richardson is
identical with the lad who won Melbourne Cup on Clean
Sweep, Caulfield Cup on Sweet Nell, and Australian Cup
on Great Soot.
* * * *
Cabled that Russian Hackenschmidt defeated
gigantic Turk Madralli in London, Saturday last, at
Graeco-Roman wrestling, and won the world’s cham-
pionship. Contest only occupied 44 seconds, through
the Turk’s shoulder being dislocated. Match was made
December 23 after much talk, during which Hacken-
schmidt stuck hard and fast for Graeco-Roman, though
he is a good catch-as-catch-can man too. Turk wanted
catch-as-catch-can because he knew little of any other,
but, being the more eager for the struggle, had to give
way. Madralli is a marvel of physical power, and
weighs 18st., while Hackenschmidt is a few stone
lighter, but, judged by the great amount of muscle he
displays, is probably almost as strong.
* * * *
At the New Year sports at Mulgrave (N.Q.)
there was a five-minutes beer drinking competition ; it
was won easily by a gentleman known as the “ Stingaree
of the North,” who swallowed 17 long sleevers. A Cairns
paper points out that this was by no means equal to the
“ Stingaree’s ” previous pay-day performance and that
something better might reasonably have been expected
of him.
* * * •
Fourth round (Saturday) of Sydney bowling
pennant matches resulted in Manly and Waverley
dropping out and Redfern, St. George, Chatswood, Peter-
sham and Victoria Park being left with but one life while
City remained undefeated. Coker’s (City) rink, which has
performed remarkably well previously, went down heavily
on latest occasion, beaten 25 to 11 by Fitzgerald’s
(Waverley) four.
* • * *
Latest London craze, performed at Crystal
Palace Circus for the first time Christmas Eve and which
has taken the place of “ Looping the Loop,” is “ Flying
the Flume.” A cycliste starts from the top of the track,
about 70 feet from the ground, and reaching the bottom
where there is a gentle upward curve, plunges through
mid-air (carried by the impetus gained in the descent) to
alight 50ft. further away. This startling ride is done by
Mademoiselle Helen Detrieu.
* * * •
Contest for N.S.W. 220 yards swimming
supremacy at Goulburn was badly managed. Cavill,
Sobraon boy Keran, and others streaked over consider-
ably more than the required distance. Cavill alleges
that deliberate interference hampered him seriously, and
Keran lays a similar charge, but Cavill’s position as the
winner ■is unassailable. Latest display by Keran
endorses the forecast, printed last week, that he’ll
be on the top plane ere long—his latest was a decided
improvement on the first effort in public, a week before.
* * * *
Billed to go against his world’s “ hundred ” at
North Sydney Swimming Carnival on Saturday, Dick
Cavill begged to be excused through not feeling “ too
well,” but all the same raced and finished in 59sec. —lsec.
ahead of the best accomplished by any swimmer in the
world bar an Australian.
* * * *
There seems to be an increase in the public
interest in matters natatorial, North Sydney District
Swimming Club having to turn money away from the
Lavender Bay Floating Baths on Saturday, when the
club held its second annual carnival. Even the roof was
■crowded, and the people thronged so thickly that the
timid ones among the audience feared “ something would
happen.” This fear was increased when they heard the
noise of hundreds of feet on the roof. The chief
item of the afternoon was the stubborn race between
Greenwood and Tartakover for the Northern Suburbs
100yds. championship. Greenwood, who was favorite,
won, after a desperate effort, by not more than 9in. or
lOin. in lmin. 7 l-ssec.
'*** * *
Australasian Amateur Athletic Championships,
in Melbourne Saturday and Monday, were poorly at-
tended. Most noteworthy things done were G. W.
Smith’s (N.Z.) creation of a new Australasian 440 yards
hurdles record—sB£ (prior best was Holder’s 58 4-5), N.
Barker’s (N.S.W.) making of a fresh Victorian best for the
furlong (22 3-10), Ferguson’s new Vic. figures (15.30) for 3
miles, Sutton’s Australasian half-mile record—l.sl 4-5
(same man putup 1.574-5 at Bendigo recently,but that has
not been endorsed yet), and O’Reilly’s Victorian record
weight put—39ft. 2|in. Victoria, now for the first time,
owns inter-State supremacy with 6 points. N.S.W.
finished second, and M.L. third—3 points. Preceding
five meetings saw M.L. score thrice and N.S.W. twice. A
dead-heat between Barker,(N;S.W.) and Hunter (Vic.) in
the 100yds. had to be decided Wednesday, and if N.S.W.
won, that State’s points would be level with Victoria, but
latter, thiough holding majority of seconds, must remain
on top.
„ T c i hnrrllea
M.L. amateur Gr. W. Smith, who w ,
at A. A.A.U. championship in Melbourne, Satu } *
Monday, holds Australasian bests—ls 4-5 (120 yards) and
pSts C ' years PS o : id an previou“ly n he was"!
game up'through steejlechase injuries. He played three-
quarter in 1897 M.L. football team, has won M.L. quarter-
mile hurdle supremacy and 100 yards five times, and 120
vards hurdles four times; he went’Ome (in 1902) and
secured English 120 vards hurdles premiership in 16sec„
and some handicaps! In nine starts Smith was first or
auu sume luuuiuip.
second eacn time. * * «
“ Crab ” : Again world - champion sculler
Towns’attitude is peculiar. Before Tresidder became ill
nothing definite could be got from Towns. While
Tresidder lav sick Towns expressed anxiety for a match
but didn’t want to “ force” his rival “ to fix an immediate
date ” Now Tresidder is well—2st. above his rowing
weight—and has challenged through the papers and
lodged £25 for a match for £5OO aside and has also written
a letter to Towns at his private residence. Weeks have
passed, but Towns is still dumb aiid is said to have in view
a trip to ’Murka. Surely Towns cannot thus ignore a
legitimate claimant like Tresidder and retain the cham-
pion title.
»** * '
The Maoriland Cornishman, Bob Fitzsimmons,
after his fight with Gardner, told an interviewer that he
had definitely retired from “ plug.” “ I will never fight
again,” he said. “I am getting old, and I believe there
are yet good young men to develop.”
J 6 * ’ * * *
Light-weight boxing premiership of Queensland,
fought at Brisbane, Thursday night, was one-sided and
wearying. Costa led from the opening till he knocked
Moore out in the 12th round.
* * * *
At Sydney National Sporting Club last week
Fleming and that colored streak Blakesley fought to an
almost empty house. It was their second meeting and
on the former shake-up Fleming completely outclassed
the other. Occasionally there was some hard hitting,
but there was never any doubt that Fleming would win
the second fight as easily as he did the first. At the close
of the 20th round the referee yawned, stretched his arms
and declared Fleming the winner.
* * * ♦
Tasmanian light-weight, “Billy” Maher, col-
lapsed last week in Melbourne when he met “Cake-
walker” Savral. Maher rushed in to finish it with a
shower of savage blows, but the negro stood up and gave
swing for swing, and hooked and jolted with equal fero-
city. Maher’s condition was not what it ought to have
been, and in the second round his strength petered out;
then the negro, much the stronger man, rushed Maher,
and the white was too exhausted to keep him off, and fell
down utterly done for. A second battle is talked of. The
white man was so confident of winning that he insisted
the loser should receive only £5 of the gate-money. At
the start, betting was 4 to 1 on him, and during the first
round 5 to 2 was freely offered. No one guessed the
negro had so much sand in him.
* * * *
U.B.A. files tell of the 17th (or thereabouts)
Ro S Uk r e C A?^hhi oa™o a 7n e D°ece
draw with Memsic, and che audience howled that Griffo
should have had the decwion. Saidl that.he is asJiu'ck
wUH b i;fp hns
cons den g t e onJtViofant’rtitVi.iMii n .. r i„
tro,t-bitten_ that tte dooto? de.pateed .1 pulling him
through, is hardly to be wondered at.
At Poverty Point.
Melba’s wonderful chest is no longer weather-proof.
Maybe she weakened it for European purposes by spend-
ing a summer in Australia after she had turned 42. Any-
way, the cable reports that she is recovering from a
severe attack of bronchitis at Monte Carlo.
Theie is a craze in London just now for a kind of chant,
of American origin, called “ Hiawatha.” It started in
the music halls, but has now been dropped into “ The Girl
from Kay’s,” and entrusted to Carrie Moore. “ The song
isn’t much,” says Black and White, “ but it’s made a
good deal of by the girl who sings it; an Australian,
pretty girl too, and deuc.ed clever.”
The younger members of the Musgrove Shakspearian
co. left Melbourne by the P. and O. boat for London last
week. Nora Kerin, Dora Rignold, Margaret Cellier,
Norman Partridge, Holding, and Lathbury were on the
passenger list, likewise Alfred Bucklaw, the melancholy
Jacques of the crowd, who has ceased to be young.
“ McDuff ” : lie “ Haresfoot’s ” inquiry for Barlow, the
“ Blue-Tail Fly.” He is living in Crown Koad, Gympie
(Q.), very feeble and pretty hard up. His wife is with
him. The old couple try to make the best of it.
The English basso, Mr. Watkin Mills, w'ill be heard this
coming season throughout Australia, Maoriland and
Tasmania. Mr. W. Spencer Jones, his manager, sails
from ’Frisco for Sydney on 3rd March.
Died last week, aged 90, Wm. Beaumont, an old caterer
for public amusements. Arrived in Sydney in 1840, and
established the pleasure grounds and hotel at Botany,
known as Sir Joseph Banks. For years he had an exten-
sive menagerie of birds and beasts, long before a public
Zoo was thought of. In the late 50’s, “ Beaumont’s ”
comprised hotel, pleasure grounds, Zoo, a circus and
other attractions. Later on Frank Smith got hold of the
Sir Joseph Banks grounds and established pedestrianism
and pony races.
Latest of Nance O’Neil is that she has gone “ on at the
halls.” In recent law action against her and Bankin
plaintiff alleged—“lt is a case of Trilby and Svengali.
From the stage of my theatre I have seen M‘Kee Rankin
exert his influence over Miss O’Neil. When he looked at
her she forgot her lines, and when he snapped his fingers
at her she would act. He has an undue influence over
her, and kept her separate from other actors and
managers.” Miss O’Neil denied this yarn. And, any-
how, if Mr. Rankin “kept her separate from other
actors ” it showed his sense.
After years of continuous vaudeville in two places,
Wellington (M.L.) now has to subsist theatrically on the
Opera House. Dix’s Theatre Royal has been closed down,
by order of the City Council, as unsafe in case of fire,
and Fuller has shut down His Majesty’s (late Choral Hall)
to effect alterations that will give more accommodation—
and fire exits. Dix is fighting the shut-up order in the
law courts.
“ Only Me ” : Was in New York recently and attended
a performance of the ill-fated “ Mr. Bluebeard” at the
Knickerbocker Theatre. Eddie Foy, who behaved so
pluckily at the Chicago fire, took the part of Sister Anne.
The greatest gorgeousness of the performance is in the
second act, scene s—“ The Triumph of the Magic Fan,”
in which the Grigolati troupe of serialists perform. It
reaches its climax in the flight of the premiere, Fraulein
Else Haerting, through the auditorium, over the heads
of the audience, distributing flowers. And it was the
wires used in this “ climax ’’ that prevented the asbestos
curtain from being lowered in the Iroquois Theatre,
Chicago, when the fire broke out.
“L. 8.” : My complaint is that Rickards has been giving
us too much strong man, and strong woman, and animal
and mere cleverness, and not enough human interest.
[Human interest! Have you seen Vulcana’s back? —Ed.
B.] The last time I went to Rickards’ show, in Melbourne,
Marzella was there with an assortment of poultry that
did clever but wearisome things. Then there was a lock
and handcuff expert, and now there are Atlas and
Vulcana. All these things may be very clever, but they
are out of place in a theatre or a music hall. What we
want at a variety entertainment is good character singing
and dancing of all kinds. Give us a Peggy Pryde, or a
Marie Lloyd, or a George Roby, but preserve us from the
fiend w'ho can play seventeen instruments and none of
them well ; or the expert with his trained troupe of
dancing wallabies. In an acrobatic turn the acrobatics
should be subordinated to the comedy busitbss. For
that reason the Wiltons, Derenda and Breen, the Harveys
and some others pass. Winton’s ventriloquist turn also
passes, because the ventriloquism is subordinated to the
“business.”
“ E.F.” : Adah Isaacs Menken has been revived as a
subject for controversial reminiscences in London
Referee. E. T. Smith, Melbourne L. L. Smith’s father,
was manager of the theatre (Ashley’s) where the lady
made her famous appearance as Mazeppa in skin-tights.
At the time of her Mazeppa notoriety Adah Menken-
more beautiful in form than face, and more magnetic
than beautiful—was on friendly terms with, amongst
others, Algernon Swinburne, and the poet immortalised
her in his “ Dolores.” Menken, like Daudet’s “ Sapho,”
profligated among men of genius, for the genius of
literature and art has the Jewish strain in its blood, and
Menken was a Jewess :
Ah, thy people, thy children, thy chosen,
Marked cross from the womb and perverse !
They have found out the secret to cozen
The gods that constrain us and curse ;
They alone, they are wise and none other ;
Give me place, even me, in their train,
O my sister, my spouse, and my mother,
Our Lady of Pain.
Thus sang the red-haired bard with vague allusion to this
Lady. Heaven knows how many Names might have been
tattooed on her “heavy white "limbs.” Not all that she
got credit for captivating, but a good many. The only
photo of “ Monte Christo ” Dumas I ever saw was in a
shop window in Chancery Lane, London. Old man
Dumas, a big grey-headed fellow in his shirt and trousers,
with his braces hanging loose, sat on a chair, and Menken
sat on his knees, one arm round his neck. Incidentally
Adah had some lawful husbands—seven altogether, she
told Thomas Buchanan Read (the author of “ Sheridan’s
Ride ”) in her death-bed confidences. The first man to
formally marry her was the Yankee writer known as
Orpheus 0. Kerr, and the last was J. 0. Heenan, the
Yankee pugilist. The prize fighter seemingly was a
failure, and Adah reverted to lovers of the brainy rathei
than the brawny order before she died of consumption.
A side show at the Manly chute ground is a man
rigged as a woman in evening dress—bare chest, ditto
arms, etc.—in a cask about four feet in circumference,
and sawn down till it reaches about to his waist. Thus
placed, he invitingly faces the crowd, whilst an assistant
sells 15in. sticks to all and sundry, inviting them to hit
him from a mark 20 feet off—if they can. They try—
try their hardest—but his agility is wonderful. His
nerve is steel, and though the missiles rain at him in a
stream, he, with graceful movements to the right or the
left, with bows, or with a calm stillness to the “ wides,” lets
them all pass. The sticks with which to hit him couldn’t
be served out fast enough to would-be slayers at four for
3d.
“ Alba” : Travellin’ mit a circus vas alride ven you haf
a good boss. I like de quick shift from town to town ;
de long bush roads, der camp on de flat. A circus vas a
big svag to carry. But id vas a wholesome life. A tiger
or lion vas good to look at und compare yourself mit.
Sometimes de cages fall to bieces midout warnin’; a
beast-rot eats dem up like white ants. A panther’s cage
go shaky once und de boss take out de brute und stick in
an old man hyena because he could not rattle it so much.
At Bendigo one nide de boss back the rotten cage against
de ring-house dot hold de monkeys. De boss came to
my tent in his nide shirt. “Sven,” he says, “ der vas
droble mit Smiler und de dogs.” Smiler vas de hyena’s
name. I put on my boots und go among the cages mit a
lantern. Der monkey-house vas like bedlam und a cat-
show. We find dot Smiler haf bit his way in among dem
und killed a lemur ape. Dese lemurs vas silly beasts mit
voices like a puma ;dey make no fight mit a stronger beast.
But de big baboon whose female have young ones get h s
arms round Smiler’s trote und start to keel him. De boss
get an iron bar while I held de hyena by de scruff mit my
naked hands. But de baboon would not let go ondil de
boss pinch de baby monkey on de back und make id cry.
Den de baboon fly to help id, leavin’ Smiler in my hands.
He keep quiet enough ondil I put him in his cage, den he
turn on his back like de shark und get my leg. Und he
howled like a child as he tore de piece avay. He vas a
horrible beast. I broke his jaw mit de heel of my boot.
All dot week de boss vas very cool mit me. Ven he pay
me on de Monday he says, “ Sven, I tink you vas a bit hast \
mit der hyena—you haf a bad temper.” “Herr Boss,” I
says, “ your hyena tore de sinews from my leg.” Says be,
“ Your dam sinews vas noding to me. I haf my family
to consider. De hyena cost me £l2. I must stop de
money from your wages efery week,” he says. Und by
Got he took de hyena from my wage because I could get
no Oder yob ! Next time he go into tiger’s cage—by
cripes, I will turn out all de lights !
Munsey’s Magazine, December, points out that Bellew,
as Raffles, is the prime hit of a New York winter season
that has otherwise been most disastrous, even Forbes
Robertson and Goodwin turning frosty. Munsey chatters
on New York’s matinee idols, Rignold and Bellew amid
them. They followed Lester Wallack and Harry Mon-
tague. Another was U. Thorne. Sothern is in the
ascendant just now. The success of “Raffles” is much
through an original denouement. , This comedy is prc tty
safe to waft Bellew to London again, and Australia.
“0.K.”: The duties of dramatic criticism are directly
opposed to the desires of theatrical managers. Criticism
should be just, and yet as indulgent as possible to the
young and to those who are only at the foot of the
theatrical ladder. Now, the desire of a manager is to
get heaps of newspaper praise for his battered old
“ stars,” whether they deserve it or not, but he wants no
indulgence or encouragement for the poorly paid mem-
bers of the co. If he had the editing of all notices (he
practically does edit many oi them) he would never per-
mit the publication of remarks likely to prompt a “ foot-
of-the-ladder ” artist to apply for a rise in salary. On the
other hand, the “ slating” of an unsatisfactory “ star” is
an act of high treason at any time, because they' whom
the management delights to honor (especially' at the
beginning of the engagement) ought to be commended
to the public at their managerial valuation. The public
would rather have the truth, consequently the first duty
of a dramatic critic is to tell the truth, and his next duty
is to state it in a readable way. And the manager’s duty
(to himself) is to rail against any statement of truth that
is not directly calculated to advertise his show without
inciting anybody' to approach him on the delicate subject
of salary.
Reply of English Sec. of State for the
Colonies to the Australasian protest against a
Chinese invasion of S’Africa is timid and hesitant.
It shelters the Imperial Government from respon-
sibility behind the transparent fiction —
His Majesty’s Government declares that its policy
is to treat the Transvaal as though it was a self-governing
colony, unless distinct Imperial interest is concerned,
and to interfere as little as possible with local opinion
and local wishes.
The Transvaal “a self-governing colony ?” Spoof!


Franz Josef Lager
. . . THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
v\' V
l\V"
m
m.
wm
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER
AND A PEN CARBON BOOK
Makes a complete outfit with which any MAN, WOMAN or CTTTT.D can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without leaving the slightest sign of copying on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank cheques. It leaves no vague (
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
It will save any house or family much money by its indisputable record.
Sole Agents tor
Australasia:
E. RICH & CO
LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRIcBANB.
y 6
H
Continental
Caoutchouc and
Cuttapercha Co.,
HANOVER
Y*
H
MAKERS OP
Continental Motor Tyres (Winners of Cordon Bennett Oup, 1003)
“Wallace” Continental Bicycle Tyres
“Wallace” Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres
Total Yearly Output-NEARLY ONE MILLION TYRES.
DEPOT AT
Wallace Pneumatic Tyre Co.,
brahcheB ih all STATES. <374. Flinders St., Melbourne.
Makers of AH Kinds of Rubber Goods, such as
STEAn HOSE
DRILL HOSE
BREWERS’ HOSE
SUCTION HOSE
SOLID SHEET
VALVES
PACKINGS
GLOVES
INSERTION SHEET
BILLIARD RUBBERS
FOOTBALL BLADDERS
RUBBER BELTING
RINGS and BANDS
PATENT TUBING
GAS TUBING
I.R. BALLS
General Agents for Australia
HESSELMANN & CO.
34 Queen St.,
1000 Agents In
Australasia.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Win Prizes on the Track.
Win Praises in the Bush.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St., Sydney
The War Office is sending the remnants of
tiie captured Boer rifles and maxims to Australia.
Why not to Jerusalem ? Don’t the spoils go to the
victors ?
“ C.A.W.” : There were three of us in the
carriage, and we asked Ah Slim to make a fourth
for Nap. He didn’t know the game until we ex-
plained it. He made a few mistakes, but soon
picked up the idea. Soon, with a full “kitty,”
Bill yelled “Nap,” but the heathen exclaimed,
“ 0 cli, me only got four clards.” Bill’s language
was awful. The game continued until I called,
“I go the lot.” “ O cli, me got slix clards,” ex-
claimed Ah Slim. After I had invoked fervent
blessings on the dealer’s head, the game again
proceeded. Presently, Ah Slim inquired, “You
all got flive clards ? ” All admitting, lie calmly
said, “ then me go Nap.” And he got it.
irn
- *
'p'Oß the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is ‘'Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,” "WS
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the Genera) Post
■Office. Proprietor — GEO. W» ELLIS •
This Elastic Truss
h
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is something better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Oor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
SHARPSNOOTIN6
ĥ
For Sport and War*
By W. W. CREENER.
HITS THE MARKI
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nbtt. '
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
817 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
B
USHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price la. Id. Post Free.
ħ
Q
U
E
E
N
Is'
T
A QUIET TALK
ABOUT CLOTHES.
Although I’m not much on making promises, I say this
about my tailoring, that if it isn’t satisfactory, if it doesn’t fit,
if it isn’t up to your expectations in every way, don’t keep it.
It’s mine; and your money will be cheerfully refunded.
“ Economic ” Suits to measure. . 35/- to 50/-
Handfinished Suits to measure . . 60/- to 85/-
With hair-cloth, stationary fronts to every coat.
Why don’t you write for patterns,
and compare values?
self-measurement forms,
“There’s no sentiment in business.”
h
B
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
3TP.EC.I ALITIE3
Do you shave ? If there is one thing more than
another which appeals to the man in the street, it is the
ouestion “ which is the best kind of razoi to buy. Ol
course, it is the number of different brands_h€> can obtain
that puzzles him, but there is only one satisfactory
answer “Buv a Plum; they have stood the test oi
time, and are guaranteed for two years. Craig and
Aitken, of Georgestreet, are the agents, and you will find
all particulars in our advt. columns.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
' m
teas; jSTt.
Sss?-,
Dunlop Rubber
Conveying Belts
for all purposes, made to order
in any length, and up to 45 inches
wide—endless. Guaranteed highest
quality of Material and Workmanship,
and FREE FROM STRETCH.
Samples and Prices on application
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aust. Ltd.
at
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY ;
0
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N Z.
About an accident that nearly happened :
There wa* a big holiday crowd on board, and a band
was playing on the sunlit promenade deck above. Up in
the bows, near the bar, lounged a crowd ot men round
whom several small boys played ‘tiggy," and made
nuisances of themselves generally. Several other smal
boys leaned more or less overside and watched the
water. A small solemn boy wearing sandshoes, sat on
the bulwarks with his back to the sea and chewed lan-
guidly at a banana. His weight was nicely balanced on
the rail, but, for security, he had placed the tip of one
shoe under the edge of the vacant seat below him. The
seat was comfortable and safe ; the bulwarks were un-
comfortable and not at all safe. The boy naturally pre-
ferred the bulwarks. An old man, with fierce ej ebrows,
sat with both knotted hands clasped over the knob of his
stick staring savagely at the boy. The toy glared sulkily
in return and munched at the banana. The situation
was strained The old man was fidgetty on account- o
the boy—not because he was fond of him, but because
he didn’t want to have his trip spoiled by a fatal acci-
dent. The boy—to judge from his sullen expression—was
not getting much enjoyment out of torturing the aged
stranger, but the knowledge that he was spoiling some
one else’s pleasure and asserting his independence was
quite enough to keep him swaying there precariously.
So they sat opposite and glowered at each other and
the boy dropped the skin of the first banana into the
foam below, and commenced to peel another A man
rolled up a paper bag and tossed it lightly over the side.
When it hit the water it was ten yards behind, and in
three seconds it had flashed along the side and been
swallowed up in the spray. The boy turned to look, and,
in his hurry, withdrew his toe from under the seat.
There was a yelp of rage, a white-faced kid clawing the
air, and a thud as he fell —inboard, on top of his half-
chewed banana. Two minutes later the old man was
leaning exhaustedly on the bar beside a stiff nobbier of
brandy, and the kid had resumed his seat and was de-
vouring what was left of his squashed vegetable
Mr. Francis Fitz Gerald, formerly prac-
tising at the Bar in Melbourne, has been appointed
recorder of Newberry, Berkshire (Eng.). He is
the eldest son of Nick Fitz Gerald, M.L.C., ot
Melbourne.
“ K.” : What is the matter with the people
responsible for the get-up of the well-known
Letts diaries? My copy starts off with a full
page of “ Lessons for Sundays ” for the year of
absolutely no use to me, who am a Presbyterian.
Even if I were an Anglican I wouldn’t want them
in a business diary. Then the daily headings are
thickly sprinkled with such remarks as “Lady
Day,” “Michaelmas Law Term Begins,” “Grouse
Shooting Opens.” There are half-a-dozen “Em-
ber Days ” —whatever they are —as well as an
“ Ember Week.” The champion reference, how-
ever, is “Jan. 25th, Conversion of St. Paul.” I
don’t care whether Paul was converted or not, but
I am annoyed both at the cocky manner in which
somebody has fixed the date and at his want of
taste in sticking the fact in a diary for general
use. The point in these criticisms is that the
blessed book is called an “Australasian Rough
Diary.” I intend sending Home a few sugges-
tions for the next issue, something like this:
“ Dec. 10th, Bulletin Xmas Number about due,;
“June Ist, Close Season for ’Possums Begins”;
“Nov. sth, Cup Day (Victoria)”; “Nov. Gth,
Day of Humiliation and Regret.” The few
things Australian in the book are mostly wrong.


Are \Jou quite sure
you arc enjoying the exact Tobacco that suits you, or are you simply
smoking on, the same old pipe that you have smoked for years because,
youVe smoked it for years ? If you are the least little bit inclined to make a
change, do it now, for never in the history of Tobacco manufacture was
there such a wonderful improvement, both in the growing of the leaf and in
the making of the tobacco therefrom.
You would be pleasantly surprised to find that in
HAVELOCK Tobacco
you had found something far and away better than anything you had dreamt
of. There is no brand in the World that is so alluring in flavour and solid
in quality as ** Havelock,” and one trial would convince you, that there
■ v, \ " : • '
is more real satisfaction and pleasure to be got out of smoking a genuine
tobacco than you were aware of.
Try a Plug or a Tin of ** Havelock" Tobacco. Smoke it, say, for a month,
and then see if anything would tempt you to go back to any other brand,
“Havelocl{” maizes friends and l<eeps them.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
h
m.
DAY
D
IHOIN
ĥ
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BEGAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: ** ‘Viyella* has
borne the test of years ; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
“VERY GOOD.”
“I never fail to recommend Chamberlain’s
Diarrhoea Remedy,” writes M. Links, storekeeper,
Carcoar, N.S.W., “because I know it is very
good. ”
It is a pleasure for any dealer to recommend
Chamberlain’s Diarrhoea Remedy, for it always
pleases the purchaser. If troubled with bowel
complaints, try a small-size bottle of Chamber-
lain’s Diarrhoea Remedy.*
The Murray is taking a pecnliar revenge
for the dry times, when the big lakes just inside
its mouth were made brackish by the sea working
in. At present it is turning out muddy, fresh
water in such quantities that the coastline outside
is affected, and the big crayfish in particular have
simply cleared out from the Port Victor'district.
General Hutton is said to be trying his
best to get a recall to London. His term in
Australia has no chance of extension, and he fears,
unless he gets into the Piccadilly swim pretty
sharp, he will be put on half-pay on his return-
Hutton, by the way, cultivated Governor Clarke
very effusively when the latter got that War
Office appointment.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Sweet Tablets.
Simply Eaten.
2 TABLETS A DOSE.
Pleasant to take.
Always Efficacious.
US
NATURES OWN REMEDY.|
A TASTELESS 8 FAISLESS APERIENT. 1
ħ
Made from s.
Fresh FbD |T t
HERBS
FOR CHILDREN AND ADULTS.
Highly
Recommended
by LEADING
MEDICAL MEN.
One WELL-KNOWN DOCTOR
writes thus: “The action of
Golden Frutex is as sure as
the sun will rise.”
Absolutely the BEST REMEDY for Stomach, Liver and Kidney Troubles.
Good for INFANTS and AGED alike*
A Splendid ANTIDOTE for SEA-SICKNESS. Obtainable Everywhere-Box, 20 Tablets, Is 6d.
Head Office for Australasia-317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PURE UME-FRUIT juice
DO yOU DRJNK LIME JUICE ?
mrmisrw
THEN DRINK THE BEST
Agents— ElLiott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
h
Business, Robbery, etc.
“H.P.”: The yellow man is in complete pos-
session of the fruit and vegetable trade of Wellington
(M.L.). The business is said to be run by a small ring of
not more than half-a-dozen wealthy Ohows, who, as
occasion demands, import a few of the slant-eyed, and
allow them to work out their redemption on 3d. a day—
a redemption never, of course, achieved. With nothing
to pay for labor and next to nil for food, much time is
given to the shop windows, which are gorgeously kept.
* * * »
Said that the men who clean out the storm-water
sewers of Sydney make a systematic prospect of the silt
ere sending it up the man-holes—and the prospect often
pans out very well.
* * *
“ Chasselas” : Be “Hix”(B. 31/12/’O3), I still
state there is no maker of malleable iron castings either
in Ballarat or Melbourne, or in the Commonwealth, or
any furnace where they are turned out. The so-called
malleable castings “ Hix ” refers to are made from
crucible steel, a very different thing from the cheap iron.
I also state there is not one malleable cast-iron part on
any harvester manufactured in Victoria, and I get my
evidence first-hand, as I have given a good many their
preliminary canter in the wheat-fields of south-west Vic.
this season. The Yanks could knock out the local
makers in the matter of a light harvester if their patents
were not a protection. The 'Murkans have command of
the cheap malleable castings, while Australian makers
must use heavy crude castings, or expensive drop forgings,
or steel castings. If the Federal Parliament does not-put
on wstiff import-duty American competition will have to
be reckoned with.
“Scallywag”: Acting once as scrutineer of the
raffling at a country town bazaar, I had my eyes
opened a bit by the roguery practised. Commonest
form of it was that girls, receiving the price of
a share in the article to be raffled, would put
their own name down—the fleeced one seldom
taking the trouble to see his name written. Caught a
girl also with an imitation ballot ticket, with which s te
had won three articles. I then hired a nipper to draw,
but he was “squared” inside half an hour to hold a
forged ticket. Out of curiosity, I examined the lists,
and found that out of 14 articles in which I had taken
a share my name was down eight times. When bazaars
are on now, I send the promoters half a sov., and “ do ”
the rest at a pony meeting. There is better chance of a
run for your money there.
* * * *
“ Marat A man came to the door of my hash-
house a few weeks back, canvassing for orders for false
teeth on time-payment. He carried the wax for im-
pressions and a small heating apparatus, and immediately
anyone signed a paper wherein he agreed to pay Is. down
and 6d. a week, he got straight to business. I laughed
when he explained the system, and he grabbed my lower
jaw before 1 could pull it up again, and wanted to replace
my missing front tooth. He showed me 17 agreements
signed that morning. The old Jezebel who ran the hash-
house signed the agreement, and paid 2s. down. He
called on Monday for the first payment, and when I
answered the door, he said, “Mrs. Mac. in? Tell her the
fang collector, please.” He’s a humorous ouss.
* * * *
Perhaps there is no greater take-down Out-back
than the peregrinating engraver. He is rarely even a third-
class workman, and always a victim to a weakness, other-
wise he would never have reason to leave the cities, where
good men with the graver are scarcer even than honest
parsons. The wandeyer ekes out a living spoiling watch-
cases. Every country town has citizens who should have
known better whocan produce a watch upon whose cover
the itinerant has sought to etch, in flowery characters, the
owner’s name or initials. One can tell at a glance at what
hour of the day the “artist” has taken his job in hand
by the different degrees of badness apparent in the
work. Before dinner, the ambition of the graver-man
runs to flowery flourishes, and letters varying, in vain
effort, from finest Italian scroll in shadow to the bold
block letters of the city housetops. A few drinks further
on, and the ambition vanishes—plain letters, tapering in
size perceptibly, greet the eye. After dinner the ruina-
tion of the local watch-covers proceeds, till at sundown
the proceedings of the “ dotter ” are disgraceful. Finally,
at the close of the day, he simply inscribes a hiccup on
the case, or else sinks gently in a heap with the watch in
his hand, and doesn’t inscribe anything.
* * * *
“Marat”: A greater rogue than even the
registry-office shark is the average fiend who sells
small businesses to “.flats.” He generally owns a table,
four chairs, the talking capabilities of Jawbone Neild.and
a hide that would make a rhinoceros, after one inspection,
go away, a crushed animal, and hide himself gloomily
behind a shrub. One day’s canvass will put a hundred
small businesses in his hands for sale or commission, com.
being sometimes as much as one-half of sale price. Then he
advertises in the Herald for a mug “ to buy for £lO the
splendid business that will return £3 profit weekly.” The
old struggling couple who want a paying greengrocery
for their hard saved £4O, and the widow who wants to
invest the £25 she received from the lodge, call in to see
him and are picked as clean as a sheep in crow-time.
From the moment they arrive he never rests until they
I are left stranded in “ the magnificent business turning in
£3 a week,” whose previous owners had to be exhorted
daily by the agent to keep the door open another day, as
“a mug might turn up.” I know one business agent
whose wife opens up confectionery businesses with a few
pounds of stale confectionery and some empty jars. Her
husband then brings along a “mug,” and, the two being
brilliant talkers, a deposit is snatched out of his pocket
before he can get away from the shop. Last year the
husband sold .14 confectionery businesses for prices
ranging from £2O to £45, every one of which the wife had
opened at a cost of £5 a-piece at the outside.
A big Sydney retail firm ordered iis typists
to start the New Year with costumes of plain black and
white'. Also, they are strictly forbidden to wear jewel-
lery. They are now trembling lest the military boss
should order them into kharki.
* * * *
Japanese commerce is flying to the neutral
ships. Will not the American flag be preferred to the
English ? Germany will cut in for a slice. She stands on
velvet. Certainly there will be no need for her to fight,
but she will put in an oar for some advantage out of the
combatants. Wilhelm and Billow will do all they know
to get England entangled. The American civil war ruined
the American commercial navy, which went over to the
British Flag.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEE
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
j>re*s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ?If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may he discoloured, or there majr be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive, you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not How being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Huusemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions,, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared bV
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : iYLI.IOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for-th*registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Mistress: Never use any Soap
for the children except
WRIGHT’S
COAL TAR
SOAP.
Nurse: of course not, ma'am.
THE NURSERY SOAP
DEATH!
The oold clasp of Death will inevitably enfold each and all of us at last, but Science has given many
of us the means of postponing the dread embrace until our tale of years is spent, and it _wou e
height of folly to refrain from availing ourselves of the aid which knowledge affords. Ueatn is
hastened by ignorance. Nature has endowed us with the sense of pain, solely in order that, y
ing relief, we may avoid playing into the hands of death. When we feel pain we are out oea•
Pain long endured is a strain upon the system which nature cannot withstand. Many of us, *
go on suffering certain kinds of pain, just as if Science could not come to the help of her sister l atur .
There is, for instance, no necessity for anyone to suffer from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anaemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
The pains caused by this long list of disorders are but Nature’s means of letting us know that the
kidneys or liver are for some reason unable to perform their work efficiently, for all of these dis-
orders are produced by the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons, which would be
thrown off naturally if the kidneys and liver were doing their duty. Few people realise how important
in the scheme of life is the healthy action of the kidneys and the liver, therefore the following
description of the functions of those vital organs will be of the deepest interest to many.
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains m weight, of uric acid,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an Ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is m solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion of
the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy, and no time must be lost in
adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful
illness will result.
The Liver. —In the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood,
converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood
gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into
urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their
life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion,
Biliousness, Anaemia, Sick Headache and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Liver, was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it was necessary to find a curative agent which
would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so immediately associated
in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and after many disappointments, the medicine
which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length discovered. Warner’s Safe
Cure cures all diseases of tlie kidneys and livei*, and, by restoring'their activity, these vital
organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of the urinary and biliary poisons,
the presence of which, in the system, are the cause of Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Back-
ache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and General Debility. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these disorders simply
by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure
are permanent cures. ng.
The Man Who Knew.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It wa3 a “ private boarding establishmc nt ”
painfully “select.” It called itself “Highflyer
House,” and the landlady—an h-less but majestic
person, who always wore black silk and a sepul-
chral voice—had, by her own account, seen such
transcendently “better days” that it was practi-
cally an honor and a favor to be allowed to become
a “paying guest” at Highflyer House.
We were therefore somewhat surprised at the
admission to such a recondite circle of a man with
the utterly undistinguished cachet of our new
boarder. Middle-aged, smallish, wiry, hard-
featured and sandy-haired ; he had a dry curtness
»f manner that was only just not incivility. His
garments also were what might be described as
sub-shabby, and the surprise at his advent vastly
increased, when it became known that he was to
occupy the landlady’s Holy of Holies —the best
bedroom in the house, the tenancy of which
involved a substantial increase in the terms.
“ That, of course, means coin,” the Superiah
Person admitted ; “but still, y’ know, the fellow
won’t do at all. He’s uttahly impossible—b’Jawve,
yas ! ”
The Literate agreed. “Why, the man was
positively so ignorant that he had written his
surname in the hall-book without a capital
initial! ”
This was in the smoking-room ; and, as I passed
through the hall afterwards, I had the curiosity
to look at the book. “John W. ffolliott,” I read.
Now, here was no illiteracy. The West-of-
Ireland ffolliotts have for centuries spelt their name
with a small initial; that which was doubtless
originally a blunder having become a cherished
family custom. And, if John W. ffolliott—l told
myself—was really one of the stnall-f people, and
possessed his fair share of the family brains and
spirit, he was certainly not the man to be sat
upon by the four sickening snobs and pretenders
who pretty well monopolised the table-talk at
Highflyer House. Of the other and less preten-
tious boarders, I was intimate with only one—
Jedders by name—a quiet, grey man, who, like
myself, used to do a lot of inward chuckling over
the conversational caracolings and prancings of
the Superiah Person, the Spiky Spinster, the
Literate, and the Warrior Bold.
At dinner, for the first few evenings after the
new guest’s arrival, the Fearsome Four, as
Jedders called them, made a special spread of
themselves, obviously for the edification, and im-
pressment, and becrushment generally, of the dry
little man who, with an otherwise impassive coun-
tenance, kept cocking his sharp grey eye at one
and the other, as they in turn banged and
whanged and trumpeted to their own honor and
glory.
One evening, however, he began to put in a
word. First, the Spiky Spinster had got the
drop on the company, and had discoursed
divergently about the sayings and doings of her
titled friends “ at Home ” ; until, when she paused
Co recall some distinctly precious utterance of
“ the dear Duchess of Ditchwater,” the Superiah
Person seized the opportunity to dash in with
his little recollection of the Marquis of Mudflat’s
duel at Ostend with Sir Gaudy Gaydog ; and so
got to an alleged “affair” of his own on the
sands of Boulogne, “ with one of the best saw’ds-
men in Frawnce, b’Jawve! —in which I had the
misfortune to run my man—but bettaw not go
into—haw—details. Might be awkward for a
fellow, even at this distance of time —b’Jawve,
yas !
“ Good with the sword, then ?” put in the little
man, speaking for the first time.
The Superiah Person surveyed him for a
moment, much as one might look at a cockroach.
“In my p’sition in life,” said the S.P. then,
“ we are, as a mattaw of cawse, instructed in all
—haw—manly accomplishments; and, with my
speshawl physical advantages, it was easy faw me
to—haw—excel in them all. B’Jawve, yas ! ”
“Punch a bit, too, then, I suppose?” said the
little man.
The S.P.—he was a strongly-built six-footer —
depreciatingly waved a large white paw. “Pro-
ficiency with the saw’d,” he said, loftily, “may be
discussed in any company. It is the accomplish-
ment of a—haw—gentleman. But the othaw
branch of the awt of self-defence, to which you so
caw’sely refer, is hawdly a subject faw the society
of—haw—ladies. Still, as a gentleman may at
any time be called upon to chawstise the insolence
of a—haw—vulgah fellow, it is desirable to be
able to do so. Consequently, I see no hawrn in
acknowledging that I am—to use the beastly
local jawgon—‘no mug at that game—b’Jawve,
no ! ”
Here the Warrior saw his chance, and struck
in—“Whin I was a lift’nant in the Sixth, we had
a corporal that was a raal daisy with his fishts.
An’ wan day, whin— ”
“’Souse me, sir,” put in the little man, “do
you refer to the Sixth Foot—now the Royal
Warwickshire Regiment ?”
■ “ The Sixth Fat / ” returned the warrior, with
-huge scorn.. “Not a bit of it !—no beggarly
marchin’ ridgmint for Dermot de Lacy O’Toole.
The Sixth Dragoon Gyards, sir, I referred to—
the feamous Inniskillings.”
The little man pursed-up his lips like one who
has hit upon something he had expected to find,
and the warrior went prosing on about a regi-
mental scrimmage, until the Literate saw an
opening and hooked-on with—
‘ ‘ Reminds me of a situation in one of the
tragedies of ASschylus ”
"’Souse me, sir,” cut in the little man again—
" fond of the classic drama ? ”
The Literate’s face said plainly, "Now, what
can this fellow know about the classic drama ? ”
but with his tongue he said only, “Without it,
life to me would be indeed a blank.” Then,
looking loftily away from the little man, he was
proceeding: “In the ‘lphigenia in Tauris,’”
when the Spiky Spinster burst in: “Oh, that
sweet, sweet name, Iphigenia ! It ever calls up
before me the graceful form and lovely features of
my one-time dearest friend, Lady Iphigenia de
Crespigny. I remember once, when I was stay-
ing at the Bradbury-Grahams’ ”
“ ’Sense me, madam,” from the little man ; “ do
they stick a hyphen between the names, these
Bradbury-Grahams ? ”
The Spiky Spinster condescended to look for
the first time in the little man’s direction. This
common person evidently took some interest in
things upper-class and elegant. “Yes,” she
answered with condescension ; “there is a hyphen
between the words.”
“Then they’re snobs!” said the little man,
roundly.
“Sir?”
“ What I mean is that, as there isn’t really any
such hyphenated name, these people must have
assumed # ...
“Sir,” said the spinster with a pitying 9mile,
' 4 you do but expose your lamentable ignorance.
Perhaps you’ll say there is no such name as my
own.”
“And that is?”
“My name, sir, is Robinson-Briggs”—and
don’t you forget it, the lady’s manner seemed to
convey.
“There isn't any such name,” the little man
said, as bluntly as before. “Robinson there is,
and Briggs there is; but there’s no Robinson-
Briggs amongst the real hyphenated names. I
know them all, you see.”
“ What utter aonsense is this —not to say
insolence ! ” The Spiky Spinster’s nose pointed
scornfully upwards.
“Neither nonsense nor insolence, madam,”
returned the little man, “just plain matter-of-
fact. What I have called the real hyphenated
names are combinations originally territorial, due
to a stipulation in connection with the transfer of
landed property through marriage or otherwise.
The whole thing, of course, is mere frill and
flummery ; but such people as you have an ambi-
tion for the shoddy distinction ; so when you
happen to have a second surname you stick a
hyphen between that and the other, and thus
render yourselves ridiculous in the eyes of the
very people you are striving to ape.”
Here, before the Spinster could launch the bolts
of her indignation, the Literate cut in. “Speak-
ing of compound names; when I was at Cambridge
we had a young fellow called Temple-Nugent-
Brydges-Chandos-Grenville. Perhaps,” turning
to the little man, “you’ll say there’s no such
name as that ? ”
“I won’t say so, because I know that’s the
name of the Buckingham people—and a bright
lot they are ! But I’ll tell you what Iwill say. I
don’t believe you were ever at Cambridge, or any
other university. Why, man, I could scarcely
keep my countenance just now when you not only
attributed to vEschylus the ‘lphigenia’ of Euri-
pides, but miscalled the heroine ‘ Iphi/eenia ’ —a
blunder in which your lady-friend there promptly
imitated you, further, also pronouncing Cres-
pigny in a way that showed she didn’t even know
that the people with whom she says she was so
intimate pronounce their name ‘Crepny.’ What
howling humbugs the pair of you are!—and
boarding-houses swarm with your like.”
The little man pushed back his chair and got
up; but, before he could leave the room, the
Warrior also arose.
“Look here, me frind,” he said, “as an officer
and a gintleman, I feel that it devolves upon me
to demand from ye, before ye lave this room, an
ample apology for the insult ye’ve put upon this
lady. If ye refuse I will foind meself undher the
peenful necessity of inflictin’”
Here the little man broke in with a laugh of
hearty amusement. “Oh, by George, it’s rich I
It oniy wanted this ! The ‘officer and gintleman’
feels bound to make some attempt to play-up to
the character. Why, man, you’re as big a fraud
yourself as any of ’em. A pretty cavalryman,
truly—to confound the 6th Inniskilling Dragoons
with the 6th Dragoon Guards. If you’d ever
been even as much as a mess-waiter you’d have
known that you count seven regiments of
Dragoon Guards before you begin afresh with the
Ist Dragoons.”
Here the warrior, with fists fiercely clenched,
made a melodramatic stride forward; but the
little man, instead of retreating, made a stride
forward himself, and the warrior, despite a very
audible snigger from the Spinster, drew hastily
and ignominiously back.
At this point, Jedders, trying for a diversion,
put in: “Possibly, Mr.—Mr. ffolliott, you may
have done this gentleman—indicating the
Literate —an injustice. It is surely quite pos-
sible for him to have been a university-man and
yet to mix up the Greek dramatic authors, or
even to mispronounce classic names. , I have
known graduates to make much worse blunders.”
“If I have misjudged the gentleman I’ll be
quite ready to offer him ample apologies. And,
to settle the question,”—the little man turned to
the Literate—“ will you kindly tell me which of
the Cambridge colleges you were at ? ”
The Literate knew he had to answer promptly.
“ Magdalen,” he said, with a gulp.
The little man smiled a grim smile. “ Magdalen
happens to be an Oxford college,” he said. “And,
in any case, if you’d ever been near the place,
you’d have known that the word is pronounced
‘Maudlin.’ I think we may consider your case
closed, too.” . ... . ,
He walked to the door, and had his hand on it
when he was tapped on the arm by the Superiah
Person, who thought, I suppose, that, under the
eyes of the Spiky Spinster and the landlady, it
behoved him to make an attempt to assert him-
self.
“ Haw !—a word with you, my fine fellow,” he
said. “ You cawnt go on like this, y’ know, with-
out giving satisfaction.' B’Jawve, no ! ”
The little man grinned. “No,” he said —pur-
posely misunderstanding ; “I don’t suppose I’m
giving satisfaction. People seldom do get much
satisfaction out of being shown up as absurd pre-
*‘ D you daah to insinuate that lam haw a
pretendah ? ” ,
“ I don’t insinuate it—l say straight-out that
I wasn’t long in sizing you up as being just as big
a fraud as the others. ’
“Enough, sir! You must give me a meeting.
Can you do anything with the—haw—saw’d ?”
Again the little man laughed with genuine
enjoyment. “Oh, Lord!” he said; “this is
quite too funny for anything. This man will be the
death of me—but not with the ‘ saw’d.’ Go away,
you ridiculous large person, and- don t talk
drivelling tommyrot. Or, here—stay a moment. ”
The little man suddenly slipped out into the
hall, and quickly returned with two walking canes.
“ Here, my bold niaster-of-fence,” he said;
“ take-this stick, and engage me in quarte—this
way. Don’t be alarmed, madam” (to the expostu-
lating landlady)— ‘‘ there’ll be no thrusting. Now,
sir; here we are in quarte ” —the big man was
half-stupidly holding the cane in position—“ and
I disengage—thus—to hit you in sixte. The
counter-parry of quarte is your best move—make
it, sir. Go on, man—make it! Not you—you
don’t know how ! Oh, Lord !—here’s the man
that spitted ‘one of the best saw’dsmen in
Frawnce, b’Jawve,’ and he positively doesn’t
know septime from seconde ! ”
The little man walked out, and was replacing
his cane in the hall-rack, when the Superiah
Person, who had been standing like a monument
to the Supremely Ridiculous, suddenly rushed at
him and landed him a blundering blow on the side
of the head that knocked him to the foot of the
stairs.
Jeddera, myself, and a couple of others hastened
out to preserve the small man from annihilation;
but we weren’t needed, for he was up again in an
instant, and, darting swiftly in, planted three
lightning-like blows on the “mark before the
big man had time to cover that susceptible locality.
Very hard punches they must have been, too, for
the big chap doubled-up like a wet rag, and fell,
with a grunt, upon his hands and knees.
“Get up, old man,” jeered the small battering-
ram. “Get up, and go on ‘chawstising the inso-
lence of the—haw—vulgah fellow.’ Very sorry to
have had to do it, ma’am—to the protesting land-
lady—but he’d make four of me, you see ; and I
don’t take any chances with bullocks. And, any-
how, I don’t think he wants any more.”
He didn’t; and it was a very Inferiah Superiah
Person that presently slunk up the stairs to his
room.
“Always hit a big-un in the dinner, if you can,’ -
the small man said to us, with a wink, as he began
to fill his pipe. “Even if you don’t drop him, it’ll
probably get you a good second opening.”
The Superiah Person left next morning, and the
Spiky Spinster a few days later. The Literate
and the Warrior, having thicker hides, stayed on ;
but never a word concerning Humane Letters or
the Art-Military did either of them afterwards let
fall in the hearing of the Man who Knew.
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.


The edition de luxe of Phil May’s Bulletin
pictures is now on sale with all leading book-
sellers ; price, 21s. As the number of copies
remaining is limited, intending purchasers are
advised to apply at once. The edition will not be
reprinted.*
The Colinton Estate, Queensland.
40,000 ACRES OF DAIRY FARMS.
The Colinton Estate is situated on the ever-running
fresh waters of the Upper Brisbane River, about 5J hours’
train from the city, and is the property of W. J. H. •
Moore, M.L.A., and not of any syndicate, who buy whole-
sale to sweat the agriculturist and make a profit by
retailing.
Colinton is essentially a dairying property, and con-
sists of a succession of sloping ridges, with a large propor-
tion of lucerne flats, with frontages to the Upper Brisbane
River, and to numerous creeks which intersect the pro-
perty. It is sheltered on the west by a high range of
mountains, which form the main watei shed of the Bris-
bane River, and its fattening properties are borne out by
the certificate of the local Tick Inspector, whose returns
show an average of 5494 fat bullocks per annum, turned
off during the past five years, and during this time it was
only partly stocked.
The rainfall works out at nearly 40 inches per annum,
and the property during 1892 proved itself practically
drought-proof.
There is upwards of 18 miles double frontage to the
Upper Brisbane River, and, in addition to eight large
dams, there are 55£ miles of permanent running creeks,
so that every farm has permanent water on it. The
station is free from ticks, and has been kept free from
pests ; and there is no nut-grass on any of the farms.
The auction sale will take place at the head station on
Easter Monday and the following days of Easter week,
and the terms are as follows :—One-tenth cash, then no
payment for two years, and the balance in annual instal-
ments for twenty years, with interest at 4J per cent.
There will also be a “ non-forfeiture ” clause in the sale
contract to the effect that, if through drought or loss of
crops, a purchaser is unable to meet his instalments, the
vendor will not enforce the forfeiture clauses of the agree-
ment under certain reasonable circumstances.
A very large number of newspapers in Southern Queens-
land, and all through New' South Wales and Victoria, as
well as in New Zealand and South Australia, are publish-
ing the advertisements in connection with the Estate,
and a large, illustrated pamphlet has been prepared, of
which 150,000 have been printed and circulated as supple-
ments by these newspapers. These supplements, which
are obtainable at this office, contain copious information
about the Estate, as well as twenty large, half-tone illus-
trations. The greatest facilities will be afforded to per-
sons going to inspect, and the date of the sale is well
ehosen, as people attending will be enabled to take
advantage of the Easter railway excursions.*
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the VVaverley Pen."
h
ĥ
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate'y examined by experienced hands,
and arty found defective are'discarded.
Kg l- BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. "Bd
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHA/I.
Amusement*.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY
OF N.S.W.
(rand Commonwealth Shorn.
30th MARCH to 7th APRIL. 1904.
PRIZE BCHEDULEB
MAY BE HAD ON APPLICATION.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Royal Chambers, 1 Oastlereagh-street, Sydney.
pALACE THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. GEO. STEPHENSON.
Every Evening at 8. Every Wednesday at 2.30.
MR. GEORGE STEPHENSON’S
AMERICAN COMEDY COMPANY.
Singers, Dancers and Comedians in the
HUGE HEAP OF HILARITY,
BROWN’S IN TOWN.
Just One Unending Laugh.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES —45., 35., 25., and Is
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
SECOND WEEK of Mr. TREE’S COMPANY, including
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES and MR. JULIUS KNICH',
in Hall Caine’s Great Work, with Mascagni’s Mufeic,
THE ETERNAL CITY.
A MAGNIFICENT PLAY—A NOBLE PERFORMANCE.
A GORGEOUS SPECTACLE—A HUGH SUCCESS.
&3T Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
... Mr. J. C. Williamson.
HEATRE
Lessee
Every Evening at 8 p.m. Wednesday Matinee at 2 p.m.
TO-NIGHT. (THURSDAY), and for a Limited Number of
Nights Only, will be presented the Successful
Musical Play,
BELLE OF NEW YORK-
Box Plan at Paling’s. &3T PRICES AS USUAL.
YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of WILLIAM ANDERSON S
New and Novel Sensational Attraction,
Saturday Night in London.
NEXT SATURDAY EVENING, FEB. 6, for a Limited
Number of Nights, THE 10.30 DOWN EXPRESS.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music-
Warehouse, George Street.
MISS CLARE SCARR i
MISS CLARE SCARR
MISS CLARE SCARR
MISS CLARE SCARR
Pupil of Madame Rer,6e Richard (of the Opera), Paris.
CENTENARY HALL, YORK-ST., SYDNEY,
FEBRUARY 10. FEBRUARY 10. FEBRUARY 10.
Plan at Paling’s. 6s, 3s, 2s. J. EDWARD SYKES.
THE mutoscope.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
KING STREET ARCADE
and OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
New Reels. Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Great Success of THE THREE DUMONDS.
A Brilliant Reception Accorded Our New Artists,
MDLLE. VULCAN A and MONS. ATLAS.
Magnificent Success of PROFESSOR DEWAR and his
Marvellously Trained Troupe of CATS and DOGS.
COONS IN THE CORNFIELDS, introducing
Miss FANNY POWERS and Miss MAUD FANING.
Mrs. SIMS REEVES, Miss JENNY GREY.
OPERA HOUSE, MEL BO UR NE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
THE SIX EMPIRE GIRLS,
Specialty Artistes and Dancers.
THE TWO BELLS, Duettists and Dancers.
Great Success of CLARK and HAMILTON, Comedy
Sketch Artists, and JOHNNY JOHNSTON, Musical
Comedian. IIT ,_
MISS RAY JONES, THE COLLIERS, CLAIRE
CON FIELD, MALVENA MOORE, LES WARTON,
FRANK YORKE, IRVING SAYLES.
IJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
I 8 Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
SIXTH WEEK.
CONTINUED SUCCESS of
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Greatest and Latest Success,
A COUNTRY GIRL.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2 o’clock.
Theatre royal.
Lessee
MELBOURNE.
Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. .. .. C. Simonsens.
FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY,
BLAND HOLT'S DRAMATIC COMPANY
in Reproduction of the Interesting Domestic Melodrama,
IN LONDON TOWN,
by G. R. Sims and A. Shirley.
Prices —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan s.
Daylesford Athletic Club,
DAYLESFORD, VIC.
EASTER MONDAY, 1904.
£l7O CASH FRIZES:
SHEFFIELD, £75; QUARTER-MILE, £10; UNDER-
HAND WOOD-CHOP, £25 ; TUG O’ WAR, £2O ; BAND
CONTEST, £2O ; HARRIERS EVENTS, £l4.
Entries, FEBRUARY 29, V.A.Z. and Y.A.A. Rules.
Handicapper .. MARK WILLIAMS.
Programmes, &c., from P. F. MEERE, Secretary.
STEYNE COURT, MANLY
Open, 2.30 to 10 p.m. daily.
Admission 6d.; Children 3d.
SHOOTING THE CHUTES «»TOBOGGANING.
THE GREAT DRAGON (Juvenile’s Joy).
MILITARY BAND. NOVELTY RIFLE RANGE. UP-TO-DATE REFRESHMENT PAVILION.
BIJOU THEATRE, •• BIOTINT,” PERCY « IIMJJI' TORISuVIHe AUNT SABBY, •'JOE IN THE QBOBE."
Shareholders in the Lloyd copper mine (N.S.W.)
are petting impatient, and little wonder. Capital and
borrowed money to the amount of £lOO,OOO has been put
into the mine, and since the co. was formed it has pro-
duced nearly £300,000 worth of copper, yet there has
been no profit and no tangible asset, but, on the contrary,
a debenture liability of £50,000, which will soon mature.
At a recent meeting in London a proposal was made to ap-
point a committee of investigation; this was carried on the
voices by 13 to 3, but negatived by ballot by an equally
big majority. In May last the directors issued a circular
which stated that £17,000 profit had been made in four
months, yet the balance sheet at the end of June showed
a loss of over £ll,OOO. There was an actual profit of
£6OOO on working account (the mine idle for five
months owing to the drought), but interest on
debentures and £12,000 depreciation made up the loss.
Directors were challenged as to the discrepancy between
May circular and June balance-sheet, and excused them-
selves on the miserable pretext that the former was based
on manager’s estimates. It is all moonshine for directors
to attribute the unsatisfactory position to a decline in
value of ore from 6 and 8 per cent, to 3 and 4 per cent.
It is only lately that work has been carried on in the
poorer quality, and the marvel is that the supply of good
ore held out so long. Burraga, like every other mine,
has lenses of good and inferior ore. In the late Mr.
Lloyd’s time it was supposed to be worked out scores
of times, but it is not exhausted yet, nor will it
be in the lifetime of anyone now associated with
it. Operations are now being conducted in the
right way for success. Past failure is to be accounted
for by the grossest bungling —the absurd practice
of changing managers every year, which has meant
constant doing and undoing; and not a small factor
has been the directors’ penchant for seeking, at great
expense, the advice of purely theoretical experts. At
last the co. has started to explore the main lode, running
north and south, and the last report stated that at No. 1
level a body of ore 10ft. wide, worth 6 per cent., had been
found. The old Cousin-Jacks who worked in the mine in
the early days are unanimous in the opinion that the east
and west formation was merely an off-shoot of the north
and south lode. The latter was abandoned many years
ago, because the east and west bunch was richer and
more easily worked ; it is unquestionably the backbone
of the mine, and from the working of it shareholders will
yet get a return on their capital—that is, if they don’t
allow themselves to be squeezed out by debenture-holders.
* • * *
Crowl Creek, Slmttleton (N.S.W.), is one of the
good shows about which very little is heard ; but it will
soon assert itself in a way that will surprise both the
Sydney croakers who assume that it is a mine which
exists only in boomsters’ minds and the Melbourne
speculators who have fought shy of it for personal
reasons. Four reverb, furnaces are at work, producing
weekly on an average 15 tons of copper that realises “ best
selected ” prices. There is enough ore at grass and in
sight to justify the immediate duplication of the smelt-
ing plant. It has been practically decided that this is to
be done, but the style of plant will not be determined
until J. O. Armstrong (who recently took charge) has had
time to prepare estimates to show whether it will be the
more advantageous to erect four new reverbs., or to
instal a blast furnace plant, using the existing
reverbs, to treat matte. At the 330 ft. level com-
pact sulphide ore assaying 22J per cent, copper
has been struck. The cross cut intersected the lode
at the southern end of the chute where it is from
12ft. to 13ft. wide, sft. of this on the hanging-wall being
free from silica, assaying as stated above, and the
remaining width a mixture of ore and slate averaging 8 to
10 per cent. As the lode is driven on north, it is expected
that the solid sulphide will increase in width cor-
responding with the ore-bodies in the higher levels.
A winze from the 270 ft. level was sunk in the dredgy foot-
wall material, the clean, hard sulphide being regarded at
the time as a hanging-wall of “country." It was only
recently that this mistake was revealed. It all depends
upon Mr. Armstrong’s recommendations whether or not
the co, will appear in the div. list within the next few
weeks. Profits are said to be accumulating rapidly, but
the manager may propose extensive and costly per-
manent works, to which funds in hand may be applied.
A div. from a N.S.W. company-owned copper-mine will
be a novelty.
4c # * *
The Shuttleton Mines Co., adjoining Crowl
Greek, has donealarge amount of encouraging prospecting.
The trial shaft on the south lease has been sunk to 280 feet
on the footwall. For the last 60 feet the shaft has been in
payable ore ; it is sulphide, getting more compact every
foot sunk. A section of the bottom of the shaft ought
to show about 12 per cent, copper ; samples of the clean
mineral assay 20 per cent. The width of the body is
not known, and no attempt will be made to determine
this until a further 50 feet has been reached. These
operations are being carried on over half a mile south of
the Growl Greek workings, in the same lode channel, so
it is evident that Shuttleton is to be a mining camp of
some importance. The southern blocks are held by a
Sydney syndicate on a working option which has been
extended to February next year.
• • • •
A London journalist writes: “ I hear a whisper
that Oobar Gold Mines may not impossibly have a look-in
(for a rise) before long." So far, shares have had no
market value, so there is not much required to constitute
a rise. November return was £8672, showing a net profit
of £3OOO, and October output was £9471.
* * • •
The Lake George mines case is likely to come
on for hearing in London this month. It will be a mining
cause celebre. The amounts claimed from the promoters
and vendors of the co. total over £250,000, the principal
defendants being Anthony Gibbs and Sons and Gibbs,
Bright and Co. The case will determine the legal
liability or non-liability of promoters who do not publish
a formal prospectus, but who, as is alleged to have been
done in this case, adopt the process of making a market
on the Stock Exchange.
4 * * ♦
The Broken Hill Prop, has taken up the land
necessary for the laying of a direct line to connect the
mine and the S. Australian railway system, so as to
avoid having to use the Silverton Tramway Co.'s service.
The general manager says that the co. means business,
and that the matter has gone beyond the conference
sfage. But the Broken Hill co.’s have taken up land
again and again to carry out water conservation and
other works, which they never have carried out; so that,
in spite of all protestations, this probably means just
Bluff —a line of business in which the B.H. Prop, is
unexcelled. Still, as the proposal is quite feasible,
the Tramway co. will almost certainly have to cut its
rates. And they can afford a good deal of cutting. What-
ever happens, the Tramway Go. will suffer.
* • • »
North Duke Co. (Maryborough, Vic.), which
has been in existence since 1890, has just closed its
unprofitable career. It has been a great gambling stock
from time to time, and in this respect has been a source
of great gain to the market wire-pullers. Mine produced
£239,038 worth of gold, absorbed £55,208 of capital, and
paid only £33,750 in divs. Wages amounted to £123,580,
and fuel and timber cost £56,000. A shocking item in
the balance-sheet is £11,551 royalty. W hat a gross wrong
it is that enterprising mining speculators should have to
pay greedy land-owners £11,551 for the privilege of losing
their money in mining, under the surface of not more
than 20 acres of land, most of which probably would not
be damaged in the least! It is generally supposed that
Victoria has a liberal Mining on Private Property Act,
but the only liberality in a law which permits of this
blood-sucking is in favor of the man who least deserves it.
* * * *
The old sludge difficulty in Victoria has now
got as far south as Melbourne. The Met. Board of Works
and the Harbor Trust are Yarra Purity Societies in senti-
ment ; but the Board has no established jurisdiction
over any part of the river, and the Trust cannot prevent
any fouling work that happens further inland than
Queen’s Bridge. Nobody who knew the dirty Yarra a
year or two ago can be blind to the fact that it is now
browner than ever ; and, except for an occasional news-
paper protest, the flow of liquid mud passes unchallenged.
Sooner or later Victoria will probably pay more gold to
get the mud out of the stream than the up-stream miners
ever won.
* • * *
Two belated W.A. divs. for last year, which
were not cabled out, have been announced by mail—the
Ida H., 2s. per share, or £5400, payable Dec. 23; and
Peak Hill, Is. per share, or £15,000, payable Dee. 31.
These increase the total for the year to £2,026,655,
against a gross gold yield of £8,770,710. This shows that
23-per cent, of the gold won was paid in divs., chiefly to
John Bull. To do this, 20,476 men and £3,500,000 of
machinery were employed.
Principal W.A. gold returns for Dec.: —Fine
gold : G.B. Perseverance 14,4590 z., Great Fingall 11,4000 z.,
Ivanhoe 10,8420 z., Oroya-Brown Hill 10,5770 z., Sons of
Gwalia SOOloz., L.V. Consols 42480 z., Associated Northern
23130 z., Golden Link 13590 z., East Murchison United
17750 z., B.M. Reef 9430 z., Golden Age 5400 z., Vivien
5530 z. Bullion : Horseshoe 17,6160 z., G.B. Proprietary
14,2560 z., Associated 75280 z., Mt. Morgans 45720 z.,
Cosmopolitan 56010 z., Princess Royal 23640 z., Belle-
vue 15420 z., Hannans Star 17660 z., W.P. Main
Reefs 13370 z., Westralia ' and East Extended 20610 z.,
Burbank’s Birthday Gift 10290 z., Potosi 5860 z., South
Kalgurli 16670 z., Menzies Consols 9040 z., Champion
Prop. 7950 z., Golden Ridge 6960 z., Fraser’s South Ex-
tended 4810 z., Lady Shenton 11890 z., Lancefield 4900 z.,
Hope’s Hill 7950 z., North Kalgurli 7880 z., Cumberland
Niagara 4950 z., Hannan’s Reward 4180 z., Golden Arrow
3250 z., Fraser’s 10270 z. Standard gold : Kalgurli 42930 z.,
Hainault 10250 z. If Government instructions are fol-
lowed all returns in future will be published in fine gold.
It will be seen that Associated Northern and South
Kalgurli are again on the producing list, and Peak Hill
has temporarily fallen out owing to labor trouble.
* * * *
Hannan’s Prop., Kalgoorlie, reports having cut
the northern continuation of the Eclipse lode in its
Orotava lease. This area is situated two blocks north of the
Eclipse and adjoining the Kalgoorlie Amalgamated. Where
cut the lode is very wide, but is not payable. Driving
and crosscutting at the 130 ft. level are now proceeding
with the view of locating any pay chutes that may exist.
As Hannan’s Prop, holds a very large area in the vicinity,
the finding of pay ore would mean a lot to it. The same
co. is sinking a shaft on its Queen of the West lease to
try and get the Underlay of the Eclipse lease at depth.
As shareholders have been badly dealt with so far, it is
to be hoped that present prospecting will lead to payable
results.
* * • *
Ivanhoe (Kalgoorlie) will shortly be in a posi-.
tion to push on work much faster. During last year
£44,660 was expended in additions to surface equipment,
mainly with the view of reducing costs. Owing to the
heavy inflow of water the sump was stopped too near the
1010 ft. level, and since the erection of the new 30-drill
compressor to provide the air required, the sinking of
the shaft has had to proceed very cautiously. In another
six weeks the danger from shdts will be past, and the
shaft is then expected to go down 60ft. monthly. In
future, levels will be 200 ft. apart, so that each level will
open Up very large reserves of ore. Many labor-saving
devices have been installed, and during the current year
costs should be materially reduced, and be as low as those
of any mine oh the fields. This is one of the mines on
which everything is done free and above-board, and all
visitors and reporters are welcomed at any reasonable
time.
• * * *
Hannan’s Reward, Kalgoorlie, has already vin-
dicated late manager Oorbould’s policy of letting the
mine on tribute. Corbould was over-ruled by the
attorney, but Sinclair, who succeeded Corbould, success-
fully fought the attorney, and offered the mine to tribu-
tors. Some 100 men immediately got to work, with the
result that the first month’s returns run to 418 oz. from
189 tons. The co.’s share is about £2OO, which is a deal
better than losing a similar amount monthly, as was done
formerly. Naturally, however, some of the tributors are
not satisfied, as the ground is very hard and the leaders
very narrow.
» • * *
Lake Yiew Consols, Kalgoorlie, since taken in
hand by Bewick, Moreing and Co., has been very
steadily and systematically developed right down to
1600 ft. The ore reserves now in sight are estimated at
about 170,000 tons, worth about lOdwt. The mine will
shortly be equipped with a 75-head up-to-date mill,
capable of treating at least 8000 tons monthly, at a very
much cheaper cost than rules at present. The old mill
was quite out of date when bought, and was badly
erected and badly looked after. The co. is still pushing
on with developments, and, should it be lucky enough to
strike another bonanza, shareholders may yet have a good
run for their money.
* • • •
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie, is still getting
occasional rich patches, but the management seems to
leave much to be desired. In order to get “ quick and
lively” to the pay ore, which Dwyer had developed on his
lease, the Junction made a bee-line for the spot—and left
the lode to the east. This drive has consequently opened
up nothing, and has only proved a good sink for the
shareholders’ money. Possibly the manager was not to
blame, as he knew a call was pending and was little
likely to be met unless he eould dangle some rich speci-
mens before the eyes of shareholders.
• •
Menzies United (W.A.), a wild cat of the early
days, is still being kept alive, Heaven and Bewick,
Moreing and Co. alone know why. After its Menzies
property had been flattened out, the co. was advised to
speculate £lO,OOO in Cosmopolitan shares, which deal
ended in a pro'it of £14,000. This profit, on B.M. and
Co.’s recommendation, was sunk in Golden Age Consols,
but the spec, has not turned up trumps. The co. has
now got into the Lancefield, in the expectation that the
lode would .be worth lldwt. for 21ft. wide. The first
return from the Lancefield since B.M. and Co. took it over
went 6'4d\vt. This average would not pay costs, and
would certainly leave nothing with which to pay divs.
• » * * 1
After dropping many thousands of pounds
Zebina Lane has given briquette-making in Westralia
best. The Collie coal has been found unsuitable—too
crude and friable, and even when briquettes of fair
quality were occasionally turned out, mining managers
looked askance at them. . “ It seems to me that what I
made on gold I will drop in coal if I go on with this much
longer,” sighed Zeb., so, greatly to the chagrin of Bun-
bury, where the plant was erected, the works have been
closed down. The coal is right enough for household
use, and under certain conditions it will generate steam,
but it has several defects, and engine-drivers all over the
country know them. It is only when Newcastle coal is
unobtainable that the Collie article has a possible show.
* * * * .
Miller’s Karri and Jarrah Combine (W.A.) is
making big gaps in the hardwood forests of W.A. On an
average there are a dozen sailing vessels constantly
loading sawn jarrah—mostly for railway sleepers and
wood pavements in all parts of the world. British India
and Cape steamers are also calling at frequent intervals
for loads of the same timber, and if the present denudation
of the forest areas continues for a few years a valuable
asset will disappear. Beyond the wages of hewers
and mill hands and the payment of a peppercorn rental
for the land, the State derives no benefit from the
operations of the Combine, as it is questionable if the
Railway Department makes a shilling a year out of
carrying the timber from the mills to the port of ship-
ment. Among other valuable concessions blindly given
to the timber companies in the early days was the grant
of the harbor at Rockingham, about 15 miles from Fre-
mantle. It is seriously competing with the latter port,
as vessels loading at Rockingham escape wharfage and
other dues. It is more than likely that the new Assembly
will consider the expediency of imposing an export duty
on timber as well as gold—the State is being drained of
its natural wea th for the benefit mostly of foreigners.
“H.”: Rumored Garnet (N.Q.) will be
reopened almost at once by debenture-holders. A poor
look-out. The open-cut is worked out; ditto lower
levels. Bottom never contained anything. Plarit gone
to rust and railway bridge broken.
* * ♦ *
Estimated that the fire in the Wallaroo and
Moonta Copper Co.’s mine (S.A.) has done £20,000
damage.
,<]«■»>. Whlt-ahpr Wriaht was not amid
w nltaker VV rigtlC was not amici
the worst. You can hardly call him swindler,
tt rhino-s in finnncine' that is all
Ue did wrong things in that is all.
He did not embezzle. If Duffenn suffered,
Wright did also in proportion, and was a ruined
° H F i ,1-
man. With his influence, which was displayed in
the House of Commons, I fancy he might have got
OU j. 0 £ g ao j after a year or two. He was not
in the class of such rascals as Red path
or Sir John Dean Paul. The last-named robber
of widows and orphans used to have morning
prayers regularly at his bank, and all the clerks
tad to attend. Wright was a colossal edition of
Dickens’s Montague Tigg. Bear in mind that,
th Crown Law did not, in the first
. . nrnooonfinn would lie
instance, think that a prosecution would lie
against him,
If (as is not unlikely) there should
be a combine of the leading shipping com-
panies to force black seamen down Australia s
throat by refusing to tender for the mail contract,
why shouldn’t Australia buy a fleet of its own, or
hire one ? In the first place, the mail subsidy of
£75,000 would be placed to the scheme’s credit.
Cargo, such as frozen goods, could be carried for
Government departments. Such ships could, in
the event of war, be converted into armed
cruisers; and when the fleet for which we pay
£200,000 per annum is up North helping some
yellow ally, we would feel a little more secure
with an auxiliary fleet of our own.
The Victorian Kyabram Government’s
“economy” still runs its course over the blood
and bones of the poor. T’other day, a poor old
woman, whose only crime was poverty, and of
whom Sergeant Eason, of Melb. City Court, said:
“She is almost done; make it 12 weeks instead
of three months, so she won’t be jolted out to
Pentridge,” was put away in the big city prison to
die of old age. This sort of iniquity was left to the
honorary beak once ; now it has become so common
that even P.M. Pan ton has ceased to protest
against it. As long ago as April, ’9B, George
Turner issued regulations to the police ordering
that such persons were to be maintained outside a
gaol—either in a charitable institution or else-
where—at a cost of not more than 10s. a week,
which the Treasurer would pay. Now, the old
woman’s maintenance in gaol will cost 15s. lOd.
a week. The Irvine policy is not only cruel
but wasteful.
THREE JARRAHS.
Sir John Forrest, Sir William Lyne ancl a
Jarrah Giant from which the celebrated wood-
blocks are cut.


h
m
i
mm
' "\
m.
i
ms
y
mi
S M
yf’
Choose
Your Future
At Fifty,
Which Will
You
Look Like?
Do
If
Now
sir
SUFFERING MEN
You daily stand before the
Mirror of Life. Yearly you see
yourselves grow older, stronger, or weaker. You
know whether you are degenerating or other-
wise. If at twenty you are feeble in health and
puny in stature, you can guess what you will be
like at fifty. Look at the faces in these Mirrors!
WHAT WILL YOU BE LIKE AT FIFTY?
This is the Question. Do you mean to get the
best of the world, or will
you let the world get the best of you ? Sooner or later you must understand
yourselves, and decide whether you will climb up hill to success, or slide down
hill to failure. No one can stand still. Now is the time for you to choose your
future. Do not dodge the question, procrastinate, or allow yourself to aimlessly
drift towards premature decay and Death. DECIDE TO LI VE—to rise to the
top of your chosen profession.
Good Health is Necessary. To be successful in Life
———— — you must be healthy.
If you are weak in Vital Strength, Puny, Tired, Afraid to Venture, if you have lost
Hope, Ambition, Energy, you will not succeed. You will leave the world worse than
you entered it. If you are ill, nerve-shattered, incompetent to perform Life’s duties,
Tired of Life, if your Kidneys are deranged, your Stomach disordered, your Heart
degenerated from its healthy standard, if you have specks and cobwebs before your eyes (a
sure sign of Kidney Disease), if you have Presentiments of Coming Evil, and mentally live
# und er a cloud of impending disaster, and have fear every moment of sudden death, you are
in a bad way. Go to a Medical Expert at once while you have time. There are none better
practising in Australia than the SPECIALISTS of the Medical Staff of
The Freeman & Wallace
MEDICAL INSTITUTE
who have cured more men of their troubles than any similar association of medical men in
Australasia. Each expert connected with the Institute is a graduate of famous English and American
Colleges, and have practised in Australasia for over a Quarter of a Century.
If you are ill you must go to the Fountain Head of Science. It offers you a chance to
regain Health. Why allow yourself to go on from day to day regardless of your Health and
Strength ? Why make life miserable when you can have Health and Happiness ? You can obtain
this without any inconvenience, regain your Vitality, and find a joy in living and your day’s duties a
pleasure. No man need be sick when these world-famed Specialists may be consulted. Diseases lono-
classed as “INCURABLE” are their Specialities. They particularly desire to treat those diseases
others have aggravated by their tampering and failed to cure. Thousands of men have testified to the
wonderful cures made by the Medical Staff in cases where medical men have entirely failed to relieve.
The Proverb says: “He
who hesitates is lost.”
Do not hesitate if you
suffer. r Men are buried
daily who thought they
would call on a Special -
ist, and always kept de-
laying the main chance.
In order to meet the great growth of public patronage
accorded the Institute by suffering men from all parts of
the Commonwealth, a branch of this great medical centre
has been opened at Bourke and Elizabeth Streets, Mel-
bourne, under efficient professional and correspondence
staffs, where patients in the Southern and Western States
of Australia may consult the most eminent Specialists
and save the long journey to Sydney. All correspondence
to this Branch will be effectiyely replied toi
Remembsrl Consulta-
tion by letter or person-
ally costs you nothing.
You would not throw
away a grain of gold.
The aid of a Specialist is
worth more than gold
to you if you but knew it.
AFTER HANY YEARS.
Mr. JAMES LANE, farmer, of Rose Hill, Orange, was
a martyr for over THIRTY YEARS to Sciatica. No
doctor could cure him. They told him he was “IN-
CURABLE.” His wife says of his recovery:—
“Mr. Lane was in bed during last winter, could
only walk with the aid of a stick. After adopting
your treatment he could ride round his farm for
his cows. I think everyone should know ot his
cure, for he had tried many doctors, and had not
obtained relief. He is now well and strong.”
CHRONIC DYSPEPSIA CURED.
Mr. CHARLES BROWN, Newcomen-street, New-
castle, who suffered from Indigestion and Dyspepsia for
many years, and who scarcely knew what it was to eat
a hearty meal, writes
“ I cannot praise your treatment too much. At
one time I could not eat a meal with good
appetite. Your systems of treating nerve
diseases has done me good, for I now eat and
sleep well. That is more than I have done for
many yea,rs. I am quite healthy to-day."
HAD GIVEN UP HOPE.
Mrs. JULIA CLEMENTS, of Stawell, Victoria, who
was physically a wreck, and who had given up hope in
every way and who had consulted many leading doctors
fruitlessly declares: —
“No one knows the value of your Electro-
Medical methods as I do. I was a wreck and
utterly hopeless, but through your treatment |
am now a strong woman. I do not suffer as I
did from the fearful pains in the back, which |
thought would never leave me. ,J
NOTE
Any man may, if he so desires, through private reasons of his
own, consult the Specialists, by addressing privately “THE
SECRETARY,” 227 Elizabeth-street,, Sydney. In some instances, a man may not
be able to call personally and may prefer to write upon matters seriously con-
cerning himself. All such letters are promptly replied to by the Physician-ln-
Chlcf, Dr. R. Wallace, M.D., who is Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Boards of New South Wales, England and America. Dr. Wallace’s great Medical
Work, “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES)” a bock essentially for men, will be posted
FREE on receipt of FIVE PENCE IN STAMPS, to pay postal transit to any address.
Freeman & Wallace
MEDICAL
INSTITUTE
Elizabeth
& Bathurst Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES-ELIZABETH and BOURKE STREETS, MELBOURNE
ELIZABETH and ALBERT STREETS, BRISBANE
Concerning strong men :
exponents of the Sandow system find their best
a mirers among- the common or inartistic strong men
" 10 are a k first disposed to ridicule it. A case in point
oecurred the other day at Tarnagulla (Vic.), when young
Clarence Weber descended upon the township with a
show consisting mainly of his tall self and a tall young
conjuror. When the locals learned that Weber (who is
barely 21 years of age and doesn't look nearly his weight,
141st. in his clothes) was the strong man from Mel'
bourne, they felt sorry for his youthful presumption'
o?T Sed “V® *7
tow dm-ing^Uie^fternooii^^and'calfed^his 0
impressive feats of wheat-lumping that were being
performed by one or two giants at the local flour
p arti O,,Pn- cb rv c n, and listened and said nothing in
lence at’B. ' Then tarnagulla 6 TOlled°''up °with CO the
idea of enjoying a broad smile at the expense
of the long, slim youngster. Weber’s weight-lifting, and
his '“fvl'T 1 ,nan . ner 2 f letting dumb-bells drop upon
tI,P hl , s ‘' aiscd j cae . es > ? pemed to surprise
irm2t» l Vhen he ca ™ ed h's frienrl, the conjuror,
ionH-hJh„vl t v. ?e v, Up °i n *.u ne ha , nd ’ hl ? ld,n ff him at arm’s
at ’°'e his head, the audience began to be enthusi-
ffinsr * a Xhow 1,3 Af? r "i'vf fat A bl, . t h ® measured 74in.
i™’p ny • A ‘ tc-r Ule sl'O"' the local talent,” wheat
a3sfpVw e // S ;, &C '’m e^ e ln y’ ted to take the platform
fc t Could d ° vv ‘ t^ ii Webers weights. One
‘t ht. LpK I f' ' ad nfc the bar ‘ bells and declared
tiemsehes beaten. ISot one of them could raise to his
" Ud ; r ]e 'f with b °th hands the big “ bell,” which the
" showman could put above his head with one
oheerß fm^WpV>i Para^ ,Ve y tyle, „ bbna,l >' they g ave
and prounsed bun all the patronage of
me uistnct next time he went along with his iron toys.
The new Pope Pius X. would seem to
be a very proper prelate. That ukase (or
would it be bull ?) of his requesting R.C.
ladies not to wear decollete gowns to func-
tions where gentleinen in R.C. holy orders
FW be present, is a timely lead-us-not-
’nto-temptation move. _ Some months ago when
that h and some Hungarian, the sacerdotal Count
a de Vaya ’ was m Sydney stopping with the
alot f hin 8 sea ™ ed to . hav ?
** P" 10 ?
\‘ come aht and see the lighted wat-shipsTroS
sSy M
talking to the study m flesh tones kept his eyes
on a distanfc part of the room,
Under the Irvine brand of economy Vio-
tona seems to be quickly relapsing into absolute
barbarism. Age report of the Melbourne watch-
house :
The cells are small, dark unventilated pens, with air
space hardly more than sufficient for one person ; when
three or four are crowded in, as frequently happens, the
prisoners are in danger of asphyxiation.' When “ old
hands ” are locked up they at once extend themselves
upon the floor, so that they may inhale the less tainted
atmosphere that is drawn in under the doors. The cells
are not connected with the sewerage system, and the
conveniences within them are of the most primitive
description. It is a common thing on a hot night to
hear prisoners begging imploringly to be allowed out in
the corridor for five minutes for abreath of Z That an
epidemic of disease has not broken out is remarkable It
is <l uite likel y> however, that disease acquired -there
develops elsewhere. The watch-house and court-houses
adjoining are built of wood throughout. The walls har-
bor vermin. They are among the oldest ol Melbourne’s
public buildings, and through the “ process of the suns”
have been converte i into so much touchwood, and are
just waiting for th< flame that may any day come into
accidental contact with them. What might happen in
such circumstances when the cells are crowded is too
dreadful to contemplate. . . . Medical men have fre-
quently said that to expose a prisoner suffering from
cuts and lacerations to the tainted atmosphere of such
kennels as the cells of the City Watch House is to seri-
ously imperil his life.
An extraordinary book, which describes
itself as “Smith of the Shamrock Guards’
with the sub-title “ The ‘ Ragged ’ Lieuten-
ant ” —a “drama in a prologue and four
acts”—is to hand by a recent mail. It is by
“ Officer,” and is dedicated to those officers
“ who like myself abhor the disgraceful system of
ragging.” Author prints correspondence with the
Lord Chamberlain, who four times refused to
sanction representation of the play. The L.C.
might have saved three lots of stationery, for nary
a manager would have accepted the awful thing.
Smith, the “ ragged ” officer, is second lieutenant
of the Shamrock Guards, and the son of a merchant.
You are to understand that, as far as behavior,
education and courage are concerned, he is
the equal or superior of his fellow officers.
Colonel Lord Binkerton and Adjutant Viscount
LTmfurly of the S. Guards are most anxious- to
shift Smith out of their company. “The beggar
is too keen,” they say, and is “as poor as the
devil” ; so they incite the junior officers to “rag”
him. He is “ragged” every night but doesn'6
shift. One of the “raggings” makes scene two
of the play. Some six young officers force their
way into Smith’s sitting-room, hold a mock
court-martial; then each gives him five blows
with the fire-shovel. They force down his
throat a glass of vinegar, mustard and
pepper, then chase him round and round
the room with hot pokers. All the officers
had brought their own pokers and the irons
were heating whilst the smacking was going
on. These outrages are done to a running fire
of the feeblest witticisms, and a constant
ringing for brandies and sodas—at their victim’s
expense. Does Smith break at least one jaw or
one shin ? No, he goes meekly off to bed after
they let him up; and after the yahoos have
wrecked his sitting-room they go into his bedroom
and turn his bed over on him.
At Charlotte Plains station, near Cunna-
mulla, Q., this season’s lambing gave 16,422
lambs from 15,983 merino ewes, an average of
102’7 per cent.
An extraordinary thing has just happened.
A lady who was compelled to seek a divorce from
her giddy spouse, and was said by the romantic to
have broken her heart by the act, died the other
day and left her cash and personal estate to the
offender, who had been hitched up to the co-
respondent as soon as the decree nisi was recorded.
Perhaps she intended it as a sarcastic sort of
solatium, to alleviate an unhappiness which she
presumed.


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
“W.H.1.” writes promiscuously :
Some years ago I caught a huge variety of South
American locust measuring about Bin. long, with magni-
ficent red-striped underwings. Wishing to preserve the
specimen, after careful chloroforming I opened the body,
removed the fleshy contents, dusted the cavity with
corrosive sublimate, stuffed with antiseptic cotton wool,
impaled specimen, and properly mounted it. When all was
complete, the beast turned its head and gibbered at me.
Asalad, always too thoughtless to collect reliable data by
careful observation, I often caught adders in the South
of England. These certainly wriggle sonie time after
apparent death, or after what ought to be utter annihila-
tion. Popular natural history requires them to wriggle
till sundown. Does this mean till, owing to the want of
light, no further observations are usually made, or is it
the chilling effect. What happens if a snake is killed at
night?
On the Venezuelan coast is a kind of jelly-fish, the
sting of which is said to be felt till the turn of the tide ;
I understand that a similar stinging fish frequents the
East Australian shores. Is there any foundation for the
belief in this peculiarity ? Seems that with luck one may
be condemned to suffer for a few moments, but if stung
just after the turn of tide, for hours.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Lnneheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sh,rp till 2.301
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors oolY pay for wljat tbcy actually baY€.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST.
lor REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY
, next GEORGE ST.,
ATTENDED TO.
the VOLCANIC
AERATING
ITACHINE
cat
(Mill HHi <nm!i tiifiM'ritinnriii i »«n ,i it j,n n
The VOLCANIC) AERATED WATER MACHINE is being
used on Messrs. Spiers & Pond’s Railway Refveshment
Bars throughout the United Kingdom.
A Great
Saving
HOTELKEEPERS
CAFE PROPRIETORS ™.
AERATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the Best and Simplest
Machine in the Market. &T Price
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 571bs. GAS.
CAPACITY OF CYLINDERS 10 GALS. WATER.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Bmaller Machines on same principle, £2O.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials from
people who have used the Machine for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor.
Office :
Depot
101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE
A GOLD or SILVER WATCH FREE!
•V.W'W
\
SEND NO MONEY.
WE hereby undertake to give one of our Famous
Gold or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct;
you purchase one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains,
to wear with the Watch.
D**T m**s t**s c****e
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if
you have won the Watch. We are making this offer
solely with the object of introducing and advertising
our goods. Forward your letter to our address :
GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL COMPANY, Pitt St., Sydney.
Or BOX 865,
G.P.O.
Pretty Little Presents at
Pretty Little Prices
Come and see oar pretty windows—see the class of goods
we stock—compare oar prices with those who sell inferior
goods. You will be surprised to see how many times oar
prices are lower than others, notwithstanding the
difference in quality. If out of town, write for
Catalogue. It's free.
No. E 9417. For making a single cup of tea
without the use of tea-pot Silver-plated
Infuser, 3s 6d.
Long Silver-plated Bread Fork, 4s 6d.
No. E 7216. Ivory and Silver-plated
Oheese Scoop, 10s 6d.
No. F 6139. Bilver-plated Butter Knife, 2s 6d.
No. F 6589. Case of 6 Silver-plated
Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tongs, 10s 6d.
No. 400. Silver-plated Knife Beats, 5s per pair.
No. 363. Silver-plated Sugar Tongs
large, 4s 6d.
Others, 2s 6d and 3s 6d
No. 398. Pearl and Silver-plated Bread Fork,
Thistle Top, 12s 6d
No. F 3073. Pearl and Best Silver-plated Bread
Fork, 15s 6d.
No. F 6006. Silver-plated Cheese Scoop, 9s 6d.
No. E 7930. Pearl and Silver-plated Pickle Fork, 2s ;
Solid Silver, 10s 6d.
b.tter, 3s 6d.
No. 392. Silver-plated Sugar Sifter, 3s fld.
No G 769. Silver-plated Crumb Scoop, 14s 6d.
No. 388. Silver-plated Jam Spoon, 3s.
No. FBl4O. Silver-plated Butter Knife,
Ivory and Silver-plated Bread
Fork, 111 6d.
No. F 6138. Silver-plated Butter Knife, 3s.
4HI
No. F 7696. Silver-plated and Best Steel Bread Knife, 8s 6d
No. 334. Ivory and Silver-plated Bread Fork, 3s 6d
No. 336. Silver-plated and Pearl Butter Knife, 3s 6d.
No. ES36O. Silver-plated Lons' Bread Fork, 6s 6d.
No. E 4099. Silver-plated Bread Fork, 3s.
No. 396. Pearl and A 1 Silver-plate Long Bread Fork, 14s 6d
Stewart Dawson & Co,
Strand Corner, GEORGE ST*, SYDNEY*
The Inky Way.
“ Alice H.”: There can be no doubt as to the identity
of the Times writer on “ the Australian attitude.” Un-
doubtedly the hand which penned “ The New Nation ” is
responsible also for the frank common-sense and, as far as
his facts go, accurate presentation of the Australian atti-
tude. A Conservative who is not so hide-bound but that
he can acknowledge other interests than his own and other
ways of thinking ; an Imperialist without being a Jingo,
Percy Rowland has acted the part of the candid friend to
the English public. A thankless task. His performance
will be fiercely resented in some quarters, ana its lessons
as soon as possible forgotten. The article is an epitome
of the political chapters of the book brought up-to-date,
stronger, with more vim and cynicism, but the opinions
are the same. The lilt of the words is reminiscent of an
earlier writer, whom Mr. Rowland too frankly admires,
Francis Adams. Percy Rowland is the nephew of Mrs.
S. A. Barnett, of Toynbee Hall, the East-End worker, who
was, by the way, an ardent “ pro-Boer.”
* * * •
It is questionable whether many Australian journalists
fed to life a newspaper under such difficulties as Q. Labor
Senator Tom Givens, when, in ’97, he started the Cairns
Advocate. The semi-black Argus was there, and old
“ Hoppy” Draper, long-since dead, was running the
established nigger Post. Democrats were few up there,
but Chows were in thousands. “Tom,” who came fresh
from navvying on the Mossman tram-line, went to work
with an old plant, and the Advocate’s maiden issue came
out with an anti-Jap bad-house leader that struck multi-
colored Cairns with the force of a cyclone.
* • • *
" Djin Djln ": Staggered into the office of a Dunedin
(M.L.) daily, recently, a beery individual of about 45 or
thereabouts, wearing lurid whiskers and carrying bluey.
Met him on the Inky Way, heading for the editor’s door.
“’Shay, mister," he said, “ thosh (hie) Go’dam clerks
downstairs don’t know (hie) brainsh when they see
them.” (He had called in at the commercial department
and inquired for the editor, and the collar-and-cuff bri-
gade had consigned him to Gehenna.) “Now, you’re a
likely-looking (hie) 3’oung ’un I’’ I smiled. “You don’t
know who I am, I shposh?” I confessed I did not.
“ Well, y’ mightn’t b'lieve it t’ look ’t me, but I onsh
(hie) edited Shydney Morningsh Heralsh.” Seeing my
surprise he came and breathed on me heavily. “ Thash
maksh ye shtart. Fact, I wash. Wrote leadersh. Lef’
becaush enervating p’lltical (hie) atmoshphere too (hie)
. N’ look here, young’un, where’sh bosh ? ’M hard
up’n want a job. I’ll write y’article on ‘ F’d’rashun.”’
I looked doubtful. He was very dirty and very beery,
but intelligence was writ large on a fine forehead.
Thinking he might one time have trod the primrose (?)
path of the Inky Way, I gave him a bob and told him to
tome back sober with his article on “ Federation.” He
never returned. Passing along Princess-street, a few
days later, I saw a bare red-headed individual wildly
haranguing a casual crowd. Closer inspection revealed
the late editor of the Sydney Morning Herald.
» * * »
Journalist Robert Price, who died in Sydney lately
from throat-affection, edited the Tory Napier Daily
Telegraph (M.L.) for 22 years, but retired ten years
back to take up sheep-farming. A bachelor, club man,
and good fellow. When the radical Evening News was
set going in Napier, the Conservative crowd, including
Price and Knowles, proprietor of the elongated Tele-
graph (irreverently dubbed “ Knowles’ Nightshirt”) came
in for sultry criticism, and Price eventually got £lOO
damages against the News, which had commented on his
unfitness to sit on the licensing bench. The News
generally had two or three libel actions on its hands
those days. Price incurred the wrath of Lottie Wilmot
when she travelled M.L., and a famous street scene
followed.
* * • *
Away back in the ’Forties, when the present Brisbane
Courier was run by a convict, one William Wilks, a
number of prominent squatters started a rival, the
Moreton Bay Free Press, but two issues or so proved
enough, and the first rival of the weary old wobbler died.
* * * »
E F. Allen, formerly leader-writer for the Post (Wel-
lington, M.L.), who recently went to the editorial staff of
Melbourne Argus, replacing “Oriel” Sandes, is a man
who waves a facile pen on most subjects that have been
or are to be. He was for some years in the British diplo-
matic service in China, and has as much knowledge of
the mysteries of the Northern question as any European
can get, for the Chinaman’s face is impassive in front and
his pigtail is secretive behind, and even diplomatists
know little of the real mind of the nation that carries the
two baskets of cabbages on the bamboo. Allen speaks
several languages, is an interesting conversationalist, and
is quite English. Old Gresley Lukin (chief of Post), he
of the heavy humor and the three chins, has been winter-
ing at Rotorua, where the crust is hardly thick enough
to hold up a man of his tonnage. Jack Barr, whose
verses are known to Bulletin readers, has changed over
from the Post to the Times, and Bishop, from the Christ-
church Press, has gone to the Post. Every puff of wind
blows reporters from one paper to another in Wellington,
and there is a gale there every other day,
• • • *
“ Waif ”: An Inky-wailer who reports that an Austra-
lian provincial daily is run with a staff of five reporters,
and the literary wage-sheet amounts to £l6 65., must
have struck a particularly rosy patch. Three years ago I
knew a provincial city, where there were three dailies,
two morning and one evening. On the best of the three
the salary list may have amounted to £l5 6s.—probably
£l4 would be nearer. The seven men and youths on the
other two did not get £l4 among them Nearly
all were steady, and fairly competent. Several
were able men, and two or three were smart,
promising young reporters. Two were married.
One died of work, want and worry, leaving a widow and
orphans hungry. The wealthy proprietor, out of his
bounty, paid a portion of the funeral expenses. When
another left his £2 sub-editorship, his place was taken by
a married man at 30s. None of these seven journalists
in his wildest dreams pictured a possibility of getting £3
a week in that employ. They never had a holiday and
often were on duty from 9 a.m. till 2 a.m. next morning.
It is true that one of these papers was struggling and
could not pay fair screws, but the worst offender was the
richest, and the other never was reckoned an offender at
all. The pay of journalists, by-the-way, is mostly better
on the way-back bi-weeklies (condemned by one “ Jones”)
than on the provincial dailies, and the work, of course, is
lighter. .
Cheeky answer by the D.T.’s snips weekly: “W. W.
Higgins (Warren): Joke* good, but we never accept
them unless they are better than the best of the week’s
crop from England and America." In short, the editor
says he won’t pay for anything unless it is better than
what he can steal.


WORKING DAY AND NIGHT.
The busiest and mightiest little thing that ever
was made is Chamberlain’s Stomach and River
Tablets. These Tablets change weakness into
strength, listlessness into energy, brain-fag into
mental power. They’re wonderful in building up
the health. Sold everywhere, Is. 6d.
©
Concerning Elgin Watches^
"T :
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Hands employed,
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.
PRICES : '
GENTS.'-4-Os, Silver Case, 7 Jewels;- 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels.
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents:
SWIFT & GRICE
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
SPECIAL GRAND CONCERT
To give enjoyment to all lovers of music.
PROGRAMME.
Serenade of Mephistofele (Faust) “ Gounod ” M. PLANCON
Vio Lo Sapete—“Cavelleria Rusticana ” ... MADAME CALYE
ToAnthea C. SANTLEY
Air des Bijoux (Faust) ... ... ... SUZANNE ADAMS
Dai Campa dai prata Mephistofele ... COM. CARUSO
Why. Davydoff MADAME YIALTZEVA
Andante “Favourita” ... ... ••• M. REIsAUD
Lullaby from “Harold ” ... ••• MADAM FIGNER
If a combination of artists such as the above could be got together, there is no hall in Australia that would accommodate the crowd they would draw,
and seats would sell at as fancy a price as ever gladdened the heart of theatrical impressario.
It is now possible to have the above singers and hundreds of other artists performing in your own home ; naturally, you ask how ? The answer is ready
at once-By means of the Gramophone. Write to us and we will forward you, post free, list of records and machines, with the name of
our nearest agent, where you may hear the machine, and judge as to its excellency yourself. The best Christmas present a man can get his family is a
GRAMOPHONE. Agents everywhere, prices to suit everyone.
No. 3
New Type
£4.
ĥ
Other Styles,
£lls. to £32 10s.
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland—
HEINDOREE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Tasmania-
BENJAMIN & WERTHEIMER, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Wholesale Depot for Australasia;
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Bengep'a Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record,
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants Invalids, and the Aged . Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible .
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t j find. My wife sounds
the praise of ' Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no - other
would be used.
The Funeral.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the 70 a we wus workin’ far back on a big North
run— -
Bill and me and Scotty Wallace, when dam
sinkin’ waa the fun ;
And a whiter clump of mates in all your life ye’d
never sight—
Scotty was my facial image, and our hearts all
three were light.
Some may relish this dam sinkin’, for the pay is
fairly high,
But when no rain falls to fill ’em the amusement
is dam dry;
And we’d bin for six months graftin’, clear, with-
out a drop o’ rain,
With a roastin’ sun above us, underfoot a red-hot
plain!
Well, our water store had dwindled, and what
only saved our souls
From a skippin’ from our bodies wuz some
wretched water-holes,
Where the liquid was a beauty—from a pictur’
point o* view:
Blue and gold, cerise and crimson, just a splash
of every hue.
But for common bushmen’s bodies this ’ere stuff
was poisoned brew,
And it very soon upset us, but the whisky pulled
us through,
Bill and me, not Scotty Wallace—that old person
never drank—
So he died through drinkin’ that pictorial fluid
from the tank
But before he drew his final, our old mate made
out his will:
And he left his dog to me, and bequeathed his
watch to Bill,
With the solit’ry injunction that we’d take his
body down
And repose it next his mother’s in the tomb at
Dusty Town.
Forty miles it wuz to Dusty, and I almost funked
the work,
But as heir to Scotty’s mongrel thought it would
be base to shirk ;
So we hung aloft a notice to our callers—mostly
crows—
“Gon to burry Skottee Wallus. Back agen—
God only knows."
With Scotty carefully planted in our flour and
tucker chest,
We started on our journey to perform his last
request ;
And the first place that we camped at, a storm
upon us fell
With a hissin’ and a roarin’ like a break-away
from Hell.
How the thunder rolled around us and in torrents
fell the rain,
While like snakes o’ fire the lightnin’ skimmed
about the flooded plain !
My mate Bill was fairly cosy, for his togs wuz
waterproof,
But the rain it drenched me badly and sleep held
from me aloof.
Then an idee straightway struck me—Scotty in
the box wuz dry,
And a corpse, as you might notice, hadn’t feelin’s
same as I,
So I quietly arises, lifts im out, and lays ’im down,
And inside, myself I settles, murmurin’, “Scotty,
yer done brown.”
As I woke the morn was breakin’, I sat up and
looked around,
When a wild yell came from Willum as he started
from the ground,
With his eyes a-glarin' at me, and his face a
deadly hue ;
“ Scotty’s ghost, by G —d !” he hollered, and
away he madly flew.
I called him back ; ’twuz useless —Bill seemed
fairly off his chump ;
To each call he only answered with an extree
powerful jump.
When I found ’im he wuz lyin' on some stones a
mile away,
With a hole knocked in his forehead where he
wears the scar to-day.
Back to camp I humped Bill sadly ; Bill, ’owever,
soon came round,
But another trouble faced me, for, to my disgust,
I found
That our funeral steed ’ad bolted and ’ad gone
clean out o’ sight—
’Ad bin frightened very likely by the thunder
through the night.
I wus in a difficulty with a corpse and damaged
mate,
And still twenty miles from Dusty, so I ’greed
without debatb
To convey the dead no further, and with many a
bloomin’ sigh
I reposed him ’neath some boulders in a mulga
scrub close by.
Now ye know the simple story, but I’d hev ye
understand
We’ve both sworn with what vocabulary we had
at command — ft
That some day we’ll go up North-ways, get is
bones and bring ’em down,
And we’ll plant them next ’is mother’s in the
tomb at Dusty Town!
VIO.
WALTER J. HEGARTY.
mn t» A TfTTWTJ' fTREY HAIR
TO DARKEIS Lrxviii x iiaiia.
Jst& as r r „.s »w qui £k'.
“ 5.0’8.” on an affliction of the back-
blocks :
The back-country people of the far North are
being continually taken-town by gangs of alleged
mummers. They arrive with a small portmanteau-ful of
scenery, an orchestra of one indifferent piano-thumper
and a day-bill, giving the names of about 25 performers
(often parodies on well-known artists’ stage-names). '1 he
five acts are described, and a synopsis of the 18 scenes
given. Well, you go, and find that the “ scenery f con-
sists mostly of the stock rags of the local hall or theatre.
The orchestra reveals its oneness and badness, the 25
stars dwindle to about half-a-dozen tallow-dips, and
parts are doubled and trebled. The hero denounces the
villain, and then rushes off and returns as a policeman
to arrest the v. Meanwhile the heroine is off, and
returns as the “bad lot” and shoots the police-
man, who staggers off, but returns in - time tci be
denounced as the real murderer of the heroines father,
said father having been the villain afoies.nfh
Still worse is the variety show. The galaxy of talent
(vide bills) consists mostly of respectable old men.and
women whom I heard as middle-aged persons 20 years
ago, the balance being made up of semi and complete
failures of from 60 to 16 years of age. A second-hand
flicker-graph and some ancient wheeze of a farce com-
plete the show. Decent shows do make money in the
{jack country, but “ take-downs” only disgust playgoers,
and spoil the chances of decent performers.


9
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having 1 imposed a tax of One Fenny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., Feb. 27, 100,000 at 10/2.
AUSTRALIAN COP, Flemington, Vic., March 1, 100,000 at 5/1.
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 2, 50,000 at 5/L
SYDNEY CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 4, 50,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatoh of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVER V CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
SMELTING * REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA m mhos from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, SlagS, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etC.
For all information regarding Rates, fl pp |y t 0 the Manager, Head Office, DaptO
or * -A.. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
ama f e< ! afc wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
fortins 1 in a l l a vi P ' c delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
tiever been known tn hroat and stren S th the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
and a Complete Cure is certain C ° US 1S have been P ro P erl y treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
BEWARE OF" COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO BRONCHIAL
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OP HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
TIIE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OPP THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
„ “Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne.—• °
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs.
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
Supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT H S’ TORTURE.
BELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OP HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir,— i wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fry-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
aooes.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.’’
w
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.— I). M'DONALD, Trinkev via
'Qunindi, N.S.W.’’
9
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Kenny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
w
“My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.” ’
w
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering ha 3 com-
pletely left me.-(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN Skipton, Victoria.”
" I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
"My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.-C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Melbourne, *
w
“I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
■absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
w
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Viotoria.”
" V.forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria."
in pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.—
«• Mil IEK, isourke, New South Wales." 9
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Hey wood, Victoria.”
■crvrr t , rie< Ll° fcs °* med ’ cine > but yours is the best I eVer had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
■STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” • J J
" I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
.mm,! a o ™™™ ay tlat - 1 am as t°nished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
" jas *' y® ar J suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me muoh good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
'look made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WUItLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
■r> • bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, wa Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDRED 3 CURED~IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
" The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during: the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hear*.e’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 38
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day thathe had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
* THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemist9.’’
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUAKRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.'-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
w. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
;“ 0T - ®® ce: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size. 2a 6d: Large. 4s J6d. Sold bv Chemists and Medinine Vendors Forwarded bv Post to anv Address when not obtainable Locally .


Miss Ada Crossley’s
TRIBUTE TO
THE PIANOLA.
Gentlemen, —
I want to tell you how delighted I am with the
Pianola. It is altogether wonderful ! In an accom-
paniment to several of my songs it has given mo
splendid support, and the tone has been most
sympathetic and sustaining.
With appreciation and greeting,
Very truly yours,
ADA CROSSLEY.
There is but one Pianola.
Sold Only by . . .
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185-7 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
We will mail you a Catalogue of the Pianola free if you
will wiite os. Ask for Catalogue B.
Informal Recitals daily 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
You are cordially invited to attend.
ħ
h
ill" 1 m Iflll 1 llt|l
I
H |||i|p
i :
:
* 1
- ;
I
-%
11 '
i
-/■
S®?
f
V;
’vzlwmro-
'wm
w
- ■■: :
'■-!
to ;>. *i ... -to'.? v ' ~;W4&.
ĥ
ħ
Santa Cruzoes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thb tidal wave of Christianity and civilisation
that has swept over the other islands of the
Pacific, and washed away so much of the old
picturesque life of the natives, has hardly touched
the Santa Cruz group. The inhabitants of these
sequestered isles have learnt to smoke, and to set
some value on butcher-knives and calico, but
otherwise they are the same naked, unashamed
heathens their forefathers were over three cen-
turies ago when Don Alvaro Mendana de Meyra
brought his colony of sailor Spaniards to
settle amongst them. In 1567 this gallant adven-
turer, who was then hunting for King Solomon’s
mines, believed that he had discovered their situa-
tion in the group he triumphantly named Islas
de Salomon. He returned to Peru and spent the
rest of his life in getting together an expedition to
form a colony in his imaginary El Dorado. With
four ships containing 400 souls he sailed away,
and at length sighted Santa Cruz, which he took
to be one of the Solomons. He cast anchor in a
harbor which he called Graciosa Bay (what a
genius for giving musical and pious and sonorous
names to places the Spaniards had !), and left his
bones there. Most of his company left their
bones there also, and the broken-spirited survi-
vors made their way back to Peru in two of the
vessels, the other two having been lost.
* * * * *
Graciosa Bay deserves its name. It is spacious,
and reasonably deep, and has softly-curving
shores. Here and there you see a strip of beach,
but otherwise there is nothing visible but wet,
steaming, green forest. The trees grow together
in such a twisted, tangled mass that one imagines
that if some passing giant of Polynesian fable
were to take the tops of them and pull, he would
drag the island up by the roots and leave nothing
but a muddy hole in the ocean to mark where it
had been. These islands of the Western Pacific
look like enormous green sponges. Santa Cruz—l
am speaking, now of the principal island in the
group of that name—is even more sponge-like
than others I have seen. Unless you land on one
of the strips of beach referred to and search care-
fully beneath the jungle of vegetation you will
not see enough clear ground upon which to play a
game of pitch-and-toss. And if you wander many
yards into this soggy jungle you will probably
step upon the fallen trunk of a tree, and sink to
your waist in black rottenness. The very villages
seem more like gigantic fungoid growths than
habitations of even the meauest of mankind.
Imagine even the indomitable Spaniards of that
sanguine period (when this great Australian con-
tinent, now overrun by poets and eye-glassed
politicians, was resting in primeval peace) coming
to such a place in the hope of resuming work in
gold m nes left untouched since the days of Solo-
mon ! Gazing back through the mist of years, I
seemed to behold once more the stout-hearted old
hidalgo and his valiant companions with draggled
plumes, and rusty helmets, and what were once
fine steel waistcoats looking like samples from a
mediaeval marine store, tramping wearily around
the shores of this accursed island, and pausing
occasionally to shootdown eocoanuts with weapons
intended for nobler uses. There is a fine subject
here for a writer of romance with some gift of
pathos.
* « • •
Not many vessels call at Santa Cruz. There is
little there to attract them. Even in the blaek-
birding days it was not, after a few trials, con-
sidered of any account as a recruiting ground.
The natives who were taken away to Queensland
invariably died of home-sickness. They missed
their sweet, spongy jungles. Some of them may,
however, be seen in the other islands. They are
a weak and unwholesome-looking race with light
skins, scaly with scrofula. But there is nothing
shy about them. We were not anchored an hour
before they were swarming all over the steamer.
They had never seen a crowd of excursionists
before, but they knew, just as well as if they had
been born in Switzerland, what to make of the
opportunity. They had nothing worth speaking
of for sale but redwood bows and poisoned arrows.
These arrows are elegant weapons to look at.
They are long slender reeds, unfeathered and
tipped at one end with a human bone, ground at
the point to the sharpness of a needle. Just
below the bone the shaft is carved in chaste, con-
ventional patterns. A man shot with one of these
has time to settle his affairs. The poison takes
from seven to ten days to do its work. Then
tetanus ensues. Commodore Goodenough was
wounded by an arrow of this sort on the 12th of
August, 1875, and died eight days afterwards.
The points of the arrows are supposed to be
dipped in animal putrefaction to make sure of
their deadliness. I have heard of no antidote.
Sheaves of these dreadful weapons were bought
by the excursionists. Those who bought most
Were mild-mannered men who looked as if they
Would not hurt a fly, even if it were on the butter.
But you never can tell.
o • • •
There was an exceptionally scaly person on
board who carried in lus hand a lavalava, made of
liative cloth, with fringes and tassels hanging
from it at intervals. Fabulous prices were offered
for. it. One reckless excursionist bid as high as
two butcher-knives and ten sticks of tobacco, but
the Santa Cruzoe shook his lime-bleached head.
He took the coveted article of raiment away with
him. He had evidently brought it merely as an
Exhibit of what could be produced in Santa Cruz
yan artist to whom time was no object. It cer-
tainly was the most artistic thing I saw there,
outside of,,the arrows. Breastplates and nose-
tings, and earrings could be purchased, but the
wearers were not anxious to sell them. I spoke
to one native about an article I had in my own
private eve.
“Cah-ii-co.” he sighed, rather than said.
I offered him many sticks of tobacco.
He smiled a sweet sanguinary smile—his mouth
was red with betel-nut—and gently raised his eye-
brows. , .
“Cah-li-co,” he sighed again.
I could get no other word out of him.
* • • •>
There was one merchant amongst them who
made a strange impression upon me. I could
have sworn that I had seen him, clothed and with
complexion a trifle lighter, standing outside a
second-hand-shop in Sydney. His name was then
Isaacs, or Aarons, or Cohen—probably Cohen.
The likeness was grotesquely real. This Cohen of
Santa Cruz had a bald head, and a thick nose of
the coarser Jewish type. I observed that his
nose-ring was finer and larger than the rings worn
by any of the others. He was also the fattest
man in the company. He sat on the main-hatch
and chewed betel-nut, while three or four younger
men, who appeared to be in his employment,
went around the deck offering curios for sale.
Every now and then they would come to him,
apparently to report some offer that had been
made to them. Sometimes he seemed to be dis-
pleased, and I would hardly have been surprised
to hea,r him say, “Ikey, ma tear, do ye vant
to ruin me ? ” But he merely dropped his
eyelids and kept on chewing in scornful silence.
Afterwards, when I was in the Solomons, I saw
quite a number of natives with this Jewish cast of
countenance. Probably Mendana made a similar
observation. He had evidently more than mere
visionary reasons for the idea to which he sacri-
ficed his life. These Hebraic-looking natives may
oonceivably be descendants of miners sent out by
Solomon. There may have been more than one
Ophir. Anyhow, there is one striking fact in
favor of Mendana’s conviction —the natives in
question are all plump and prosperous in appear-
ance, and seem to work only by proxy. If they
are not long-lost Jews, what are they?
* * • «
I met at Santa Cruz a trader with pale face,
long black hair, dark eyes, and careless-growing
black beard. He wore a slouch hat, and was
barefoot, and somehow made me think that
Tennyson would have cut just such a figure if he
had gone to the “ summer isles of Eden lying in
dark purple spheres of sea,” instead of singing
about them. The trader had taken a savage
woman to rear his dusky brood. She was dressed
in an electric blue wrapper, and would have been
almost pretty if she had not worn a piece of wood
like a large safety-match inserted in a hole bored
in the top of her nose. Tennyson told me that
when the natives are at war they always aim their
arrows at the legs of their enemies. If the dead
bone on the point of the arrow sticks into the live
bone in the man he will die, because the arrow
cannot be extracted without being broken. If it
sticks into a fleshy part of the body it can be cut
out, and the man will recover. Fortunately the
Santa Cruzoes are not William Tells in the way
of archery.
* * * *
They have some rude ideas of fortification.
Their villages are surrounded by stone walls
about 4ft. high. They discharge their arrows
from behind these when they are not strong
enough to meet their enemies in the open. They
have also a curious chivalry of their own in con-
nection with the conduct of war. Tennyson told
me about it. A young man belonging to a certain
coastal village stole away a woman belonging to
another coastal village. She appeared to be a
willing captive, but that did not count. The in-
habitants of her village sent two heralds in a
canoe to demand that the young man should be
handed over to them to be formally killed accord-
ing to custom. His friends replied that he was
away with the trader in the cutter, which was
true. The heralds then requested that Helen
should be given to them for the same fate, as
Paris was not procurable. The Trojans refused
to grant the request; not because they did not
rocognise the justice of it, but because the absent
Paris had left no instructions. The heralds then
politely declared war. The official enemy there-
upon took them to the village Club House and
feasted them, and afterwards sent them away
with many expressions of esteem. Next day, or
the day afterwards, a fleet of outriggers with
platforms heaped with arrows came from the hos-
tile village. One arrow in each canoe was kept
apart, from the others. It was unpoisoned. The
etiquette was to shoot off these arrows first —as a
sort of graceful parade before the serious business
of the duel began. The party attacked re-
turned the courtesy. Then the battle joined
in earnest. In this particular fight one
of the defenders wa3 hit and fell. His
party at once acknowledged themselves defeated.
When a man is struck in one of these fights, and
falls, it is the rule to assume that he is dead.
That ends the conflict. It is only in very san-
guinary battles that more than one is slain on
either side. The vanquished took the victors to the
Club House and entertained them at a banquet.
Afterwards they paid them a crushing indemnity
in shell-money—the viotors scornfully looking on
and hurling insulting epithets at their fallen
enemies. All this is done in strict accordance
with immemorial usage. After the payment was
made the conquerors, made rich beyond the
dreams of avarice, started for home, and the war
was over—for the time. The defeated party
would, of course, seize the first opportunity of
revenge.
• * • •
Most of the wars are over women. You
would not think it to look at them, but the Santa
Cruzoes are a gallant and amorous race. They
load their ears with ornaments in the shape of
blocks of wood, clam-shell rings, bones, or any-
thing handy and heavy, to such an extent that the
said ears hang down their shoulders in loops of
gristle. This is done with the idea of fascinating
the females of their kind. I saw a few of the
latter. They were less ugly, but, I should think,
a little more scaly than the men.
* * * •
There is only one trader in the Santa Cruz
group, and he is not rapidly amassing affluence.
The Santa Cruzoes gather just enough copra to
buy them pipes and tobacco and knives and a few
fathoms of calico. All island natives are lazy,
but these of the Holy Cross are laziest. Even the
missionaries have practically given them up. So
that there still remains a little dark corner of the
earth, set apart for the amusement of excursionists
and the edification of ethnologists.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
“Tot”: Recently drove with a friend
through a sparsely inhabited portion of South
Gippsland (Vic.). Struck the saddest and loneliest
pub I ever saw. The landlord received us with the
almost tearful delight that might have been looked
for if we had dropped in on Robinson Crusoe at
Juan Fernandez. Probably he had not seen a
human creature from outside for a fortnight. In
addition to the whiskies we ordered he brought
US; unasked, cups of tea, and fairly chortled in his
joy during the half-hour we remained. His brim-
ming happiness seemed to me so pathetic that,
with a few more whiskies on board, I should have
wept. He was a fine-looking man of 40 years
■ —clever, and had travelled. What scurvy trick
of fortune could have brought this individual,
obviously capable of doing anything, to such a
pass ? He was clearly not a liquor-loving person.
Another man on the ordeal by expectora-
tion :
Re school children of the backbloeks. I can tell of
another habit which seems to be a sort of survival of the
old-time “ trial by ordeal.” Challenged as to truthful-
ness, the child makes a ring- of thu”'b and first finger and
spits through. If he misses his guilt is held proved. If
he succeeds his claim is admitted. This is accepted as
quite final by children of my acquaintance. One of less
importance, the common one, is striking the breast and
saying, “True, true, holy water.” Yet another method
is to wet the finger and say quite solemnly, “ That’s wet,
and that is dry,” wiping finger on sleeve, “God cut
my throat if I should tell a lie.” Striking the breast
seems indispensable to them all. Why ? Presumably we
used to do these things ourselves, but that doesn’t help
in the pursuit of the whyness of them.
Eighty-odd persons who went to Maori-
land from Australia as members of the Austra-
lasian Association for the Advancement of Science,
by paying J6l each, obtained a month’s free
travelling on the M.L. railways. The congress
has been proceeding in Dunedin, while those
persons have been admiring the belles of Rotorua
and elsewhere. Railway Minister Ward later on
vnred to all stationmasters to block the trippers
and make them pay full fare.


IS THE PAIN THERE?
JUST BENEATH THE SMALL OF THE BACK ?
m
\
If,
x
In
“Every Picture tells a Story. 0
YOUR KIDNEYS, THEN, ARE THE CAUSE—they lie just beneath the
back, and pain that seems to come from the back is caused really by the
kidneys. r lhey are clogged with uric acid poison, and the ache warns you of it
—warns you of the danger of Bright’s disease, dropsy, diabetes, urinary dis-
orders, rheumatism, stone, inflammation, neuralgia, and other serious maladies
which uric acid in the body causes.
DOAN’S Backache Kidney Pills—the special kidney medicine—bring
quick and lasting relief, for they cure the kidneys themselves, and do not
affect the bowels at all. The Genuine DOAN’S help the kidneys to filter the
blood properly, and to pass out of the body the liquid and crystallised poisons
which cause a break-down of health. Nervousness, weak back, yellow skin,
sleeplessness, irritability, poor appetite, tired feeling, restlessness—all these are
signs of kidney poisons in the blood. DOAN’S Backache Kidney Pills give aid
and strength to the kidneys, so that they not only take out these poisons, but
filter the blood perfectly and regularly, thus preventing the return of the
trouble. That is just why Doan’s cures are lasting cures.
SYDNEY PROOF.
Mrs. Kate Helmka, 27 Ada-street, Ultimo, this city,
says : —“ About thirteen years ago I contracted a cold, which
flew to the small of my back, and seemed to affect my
kidneys. My back was real lame, and when cold weather
set in the pain used to be dreadful. When I worked the
sewing machine my back ached more than ever, and I could
never stay at it for any length of time. Having a large
family to sew for made it very hard for me. _ I heard about
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and obtained a supply.
Relief came almost immediately I started to use them, and
now my cure is perfect. lam pleased to recommend these
pills to all kidney sufferers.”
Twelve Months Later.
Mrs. Helmka states :—“ Although it is a year or more
ago since I recommended Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, I
still have the same good opinion of this medicine. It is a
splendid remedy for weak and aching backs and disordered
kidneys. I’ve had no return of my trouble. I have recom-
mended these pills to many people, and shall always be
pleased to do so.”
Mr. John Allen, 42 Palmer-street, Woolloomooloo
writes:—“ My kidneys have been out of order for two years,
and my back ached all the time. The pains were located
right in the small of my back, and sometimes travelled
between the shoulders. A white sediment appeared in the
secretions, which were mostly discolored very much. Various
remedies were recommended to me, but I got no relief until
I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. These Pills went
straight to the kidneys without affecting the bowels, conse-
quently causing no weakness or interference with my work.
They have effected a cure in my case, and I have no hesita-
tion in recommending them to other sufferers.”
Four Years Later.
Mrs. Allen states, four years later :—“ My husband has
never had any trouble with the kidneys since he used Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, about four years ago. The Pills
effected an absolute cure in his case. I know of other cases
where marked benefits have resulted from the use of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
For Sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted
on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
The Two Ways.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I dreamed the hazy, flower-strewn track
I careless trod in boyhood’s days,
Had reached a point where, at noon’s birth,
The road took on two different ways;
And one path led towards the stars,
O’er stony ways with thorns bestrewn ;
The other down through pleasing glades
And mellow aisles of afternoon.
Before the uphill brambled path
There stood a figure coldly fair,
Whose stirring tones had power to make
The doubter sure, the coward dare.
“My ways are rough ; no easy fruits
Are mine to win, oft bitter lees,
But soaring dreams and lofty hopes
Are ne’er fulfilled in careless ease :
'* Who craves the rose must brave the thorn,
The sweat drops dew the wreath of Fame ;
But sweeter far the hard-won bays
Than easy fruits that pall and tame.”
I turned to tread Ambition’s path
With firmer step, in gladsome choice,
When from the path that sought the shades
There welled a softer, sweeter voice ;
Where stood a maid with hot desire
Enthroned in eyes, whose fevered light
Birthed grosser dreams that hid the goal
Forever from my glamored sight.
“My path,” she oried, “slopes d >wn cool dales
Alight with love, bedecked with smiles,
Where easy joys and yielding lips
Are sharpest thorns and hardest trials.
“ Leave grief and disappointed hopes
To those sad days the years beget.
When drained or spilt, the wine of life
Has sunk to lees of vain regret;
When rounded arms no longer cling,
And lips have lost their old-time drouth . . .”
I turned me from the path of dreams,
And kissed her hotly on the mouth.
The kiss has lost its sweetness long,
The easy grades grow sheer and steep;
Yet, all paths lead where unsung song
With dreams, and hopes, and right and wrong
Are stilled for aye in dreamless sleep.
VIC.
J. McCLELLAND.
The popular belief, during the recent
droughty years, was that the abnormal nature of
the season was the cause of the typhoid epidemics
in country towns. Just now, however, many of
the country hospitals cannot hold the patients.
Dr. Horsfall told the Hamilton (N.S.W.) council
that this summer, although one of the mildest on
record, was the worst for illness he had ever
known. The diarrhoea, dysentery, and typhoid
cases were, he declared, due to the decomposition
of vegetable matter.
A Prisoner of the Bush.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Poets rave about the “rose-leaf flush” and the
“glowing dawn but to me these things are but
the signal to get up and struggle through another
long, hot day.
Sleep has been an impossibility, and we wearily
crawl in from the verandah to the mosquito-
infested rooms, and wash in brown, tepid water
that leaves a thick scum in the basin. I call to
the boy to get up and milk, and then my husband
yells to me to bring in the nets and hang wet bags
over the door and window while he turns over for
another drowse. I drag myself out to light the
fire and get breakfast, but the flies have got into
the meat-bag and the meat is only fit to throw to
the dogs. As I fish for the salt mutton in the
brine-cask a man rides up and says, “ Mornin’;
boss at ’ome ?”
“ If you will wait I will go and tell him,” I say.
“ He is busy just now.”
“What the blazes did you wake me for?” he
growls. “ I’d just got to sleep.”
“A man outside wants you.”
“ Well, let him wait. What does he want?”
“I didn’t ask.”
“ Why the devil didn’t you, then, before you
woke me up ? Go and ask what the blazes he does
want.”
I return to the man, who is reclining on his
horse, catching flies in his eyes and gazing at them
thoughtfully. Then I go back to my husband.
“ He says he wants to see you about buying some
ration-sheep. ”
“Why didn’t you say so straight away?” he
snaps, searching for his trousers.
When breakfast is over, and “the boss,” after
growling at everything, rides away, I heave a
sigh of relief as I struggle out with the full pig-
bucket, wondering, the while, how it is that,
though my husband considers it beneath his
dignity to saddle his own horse, he allows his wife
to do work a cook would turn over to his slushy.
Already the thermometer stands at 103°, and
down the dusty road a whirlwind slowly moves,
turning statelily like a figure in a minuet. Far
away against the throbbing horizon a black speck
appears. It is the mail-coach, whose weekly
arrival is the only excitement in my brown life.
As it draws nearer I run down to the slip-rails to
say “Yes” to the driver’s greeting, “Bit’ot, ain’t
it ?”
Later on my husband returns, bawls out to
know if dinner will ever be ready, and tells me to
mix him a whisky—three fingers—and to be sure
and use water-bag water in it. Then he subsides
on a lounge to read the mail, and I trail back to
the smoky kitchen.
At dinner my husband growls again about the
mutton being boiled to rags, and the squash not
boiled enough ; and while I am washing-up I
hear him ordering—“ Jack, get up the horses,
and wash the buggy wheels ; I’m goin’ into town
this evening.” Then he comes out to the kitchen
and asks peevishly : “ What are you stuck in this
roasting shop for ? It’s cooler inside. Just pack
my brown bag, will you ; I have to go down to
Sydney for a few days to see the bank.”
Of course I know the bank he is going to
see is on the Cricket Ground ; and as I scrub
the table, my mind’s eye sees the crowds of gaily
dressed, smiling women and the crowded tea-
rooms; and I hear the band playing and the
tram-bells shrilling in the distance. I think ot
the flower-vendors in Pitt-street with their sweet-
scented wares; of the harbor with the brilliantly-
lighted boats sliding over its surface, and a score
of other tilings that are cool, and lightsome, and
pleasant, and
“Are you ever going to come and pack my
things?”
I hurry in ; remembering, as I look sadly over
the brown plains, that these things are not for me.
I must live and die a Prisoner of the Bush !
WENONA.
A Question of Damages.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A hairy, active man rushed into the office of the
man of law, followed by a clean-faced and more
sedate young gentleman of the city.
“Are you the boss?’’ said the leader of the
expedition.
“I am the principal of this establishment,”
replied the stout person in the chair.
“ Well, I suppose you know your business, don’t
you ? ”
“Well, yes, I think I am acquainted with the
rudiments of the law of this ”■——
“That’s all right. I want damages. This
cove’s my witness.”
“ Yes—quite right,” said the lawyer, brighten-
ing; “ who has done you wrong ? ”
“This is the case of me versus the Melbourne
Tramway and Omnibus Company Limited.’’
“I see, I see,” said the lawyer, getting very
bright—“ breach of contract.”
“No! C’lission. ”
“Dear, dear! A collision. You interest me.
Let me take a note of the circumstances.”
“ There wasn't no circumstances. I came here
a stranger, from out Bonrke way. Only lit here
yesterday, and a darned sight too soon at that. A
visitor I am.”
“Most inhospitable,” said the lawyer. “Just
tell me how it happened.”
“ Right ! I was drivin’ along that road out
there ”
“Flinders-street,” said the witness.
“Yes. And one of them there tram-cars come
at the back o’ me.”
“ Aha ! Took you unawares. Gross negligence
on the part of the company’s officers. ’
“Unawares! I don’t think. I saw it cornin’
right enough, an’ I put on the whip and tried to
get out of the way.”
“Good! That negatives contributory negli-
gence. Proceed.”
“Proceed? Yes, that’s the word. I did pro-
ceed ; but the mare got away badly. She wasn’t
used to them there flooring-boards and shied.
And the tram kep’ straight after me, wobblin’ its
bloomin’ bullick bell, tryin’ to frighten me like.”
“More than a suggestion of malice,” said the
solicitor, and added, “You had no time to get off
the track.”
“That’s just where they thought they had me.
Reckoned I was a greenhorn. You don’t under-
stand drivin’. If I’d a turned it would have been
on me in a minnit. No, I didn’t lose my head ;
kep’ straight on, stan’s to reason; it wasn’t a time
for dodgin’.”
it ud be about „ ...j tne sa
. “From the Federal to the M.C.C., the uitness
interposed. Tlmnk Provi-
den,?'?'V I wo„d« the' people
di »They te dS re i»k sympathetic and interested-
like.” ] q
“One moment, said the lawyer, on the
question of fact. Before the impact took place
might I ask what, if anything, happened at ttie
intersection of Flinders and Swanston streets .
Doubtless there were people ? ”
risk their lives for anybody. I don’t blame em.
They mostly opened out and gev me a wide berth ;
seemed to say, like, it wasn’t their quarrel. I
heard some noise, but I didn’t look back. I set
‘wiTTwh£ wV“STT
ground.”
“Ah, I begin to see—l understand ! Your
horse stumbled, and the car dashed forward, and
the impact took place, and—”
“The what? You mean the c’lission ? Well,
not exactly that way in a manner Q f speaking. As
j say> j ke p> on, and just as I was getting close to
the ranges — ”
“The M.C.C.,” the witness explained.
x "Ah Igo slowly,” Said the solicitor. “ I must
Sid the bushman, “I seen my
chance, and I was the man to take it.”
“Take it,” repeated the solicitor, writing
hurriedly ; “go on.”
“There was a bend in the road,” continued the
other. “I never let on what I was going to do.
I kep’ it up my sleeve, so to say. But instead of
following the track I steered straight ahead, clean
out of the danger, as I thought ”
“Oh ! Ah ! Eh ?” the solicitor exclaimed, “the
collision. Am Ito understand the tram actually
ran o ff the line ?”
“Wait a bit; I’m not finished yet. I looked
back for the first time, and I could a’ died laffin’.
There it was, not fifty yards away—the bloomin’
tram—goin’back again, disgusted like.”
“I am slightly confused as to details,” said the
lawyer. “ Then the collision ’’
“Occurred,” said the client, “while I was
lookin’back. I heard a crash, and found that we
fi a( j run into an iron, dog-leg, sheep-proof ”
“ Lady Clarke’s front garden fence,” interposed
the witness,
“Now, if that isn’t a clear case. Wot’s he
lookin’ at, Bill? Why don’t he take it down?
Go? Quick? Out of your office? Well I’m
d—d.”
BOLEG.
The Argus concludes a discussion of the
sweated-clerk question:
If there are clerks with dormant consciences and un-
developed energies, so also there are employers who
glory in getting their work cheaply done, regardless of
the damnation, temporal or eternal, they bring on the
miserable creatures who plod on from year to 3’ear doing
mechanical duty for them. For much of the evil in the
world there seems to be no cure possible but a religious
and social awakening. When it comes, it will have to be
soul-stirring, for some of the greatest “sweaters” of to-
day are so-called “ religious firms.”
Which is fine logic. Some of the worst sweaters
are religious firms : therefore, the cure for sweat-
ing is religion.


Purifies the Blood
Bushmen Musi Drink Gad Water. This Makes Bad Blood. Sickness
Foilows. [lev/ to Make the Blood Pure.
a
'/Si
•<//,/
u
Mr. Alexander J ohnson, of Bourke,
Naw South Wales, sends us his photo-
graph and says:
“For many years I have been en-
gaged in shepherding, stock-droving,
and other occupations so well known
to bushmen. Often the drinking-
water was very bad, and I was ex-
posed to other hardships of bush life.
I found all the men around me using
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, so I tried it. For
cleansing and purifying my blood, and
for giving me new life and energy, I
found it the most wonderful medi-
cius I ever used. I do not see how
bushmen g~t along without it. I
advise all \. ho read this to keep a
bottle of this grand medicine on hand
all the time, for it’s a great health
preserver.”
“The World’s Family Medicine.”
Perhaps you are not exposed to all the hardships of hush life. Yet you
have probably suffered from impure blood, great debility, nervousness, exhaus-
tion, indigestio-n, and other evidences of a weakened system. No matter what
your occupation, nor where you live, if you are in need of a blood-purifying
medicine and something to build up your nerves, you should certainly take
this grand family medicine.
You will make a great mistake if you try any other Sarsaparilla than
“Ayer’s.” This is the kind that has been making the cures for sixty years.
AYER’S S arsa P ar 'H a
Strengthens the Stomach and Builds up the Nerves
Ayer’s Pills—a gentle laxative for the whole family.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEB Sc CO.. Lowell. Maas.. U. S. A.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
I?OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain' in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals. Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills,. Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRS I DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
OUT" A A BOX.” ,
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly leinove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System : reloring the long-lost Complexion : bringing back the keen edge of appetite, am
arousing with the Roskhud Of Hkai.th the Whole Physical Enkugy of the human frame. i *iese
are "facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Dali. Hotted is that Beechnut's Pits have the l.avoest Sue ai ana Patent Medievne m
hemr tt. 1 till <iuectjons with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY ,
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Kverywliere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 13s fid each.
h
ĥ
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
ħ
h
ĥ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
m
3 ■■
mi
m
;
ĥ
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
HMRRACIN
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Datk, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ GuiDE(simpie testsfor minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniqvy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working fob Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is, Man From Snowy River,
5s (id. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. D* - Established SO Years.
No Master what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write lor my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make op, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is: ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Waiter, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s (id. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 3d. posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, vs. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages
1000 illus., leather hound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and . Complete Me-
chanic, 1010 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
m
reet
A JVeboX/.M.C.
Loaded with Smokeless Powder and Inside Lubricated,
which means there is no grease on the outside of
the bullet.
ħ
h
ĥ
THE CLEANEST and MOST ACCURATE
CARTRIDGE MADE.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
A CAaD.
ħ
M.D., M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P.,E., L.R.C.5.,E.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,”
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting Physician in a!! Diseases of Men and Women.
TSie only Legally Qual tied Medical Pi ajtiilonei advertising- in Australia holding all the above
Qualifications, specialist in ail Frivate, Ke. veus, Sis n, anti blood Diseases. May be consulted personally
or by Letter, in all Diseases of the Nervous S_\ stein. Bio d and Skin Diseases, Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Vari-
cocele, Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Disia.es, from whatever cause arising:, and all those Contagious
B 1 >od and Skin Diseases so cimnion throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and Women,
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
and Kidnej'Complaints, etc., etc. DR. MARTIN has Accommodation for a Limited Number of RESIDENT
Patients at “ Elmley House,” suffering from above complaints. Terms Moderate- \
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Dr. M ARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work • n the KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
Price, by post, cloth 5,6 (cheap paper cover edition. 1/6). Send for “ Press Extracts,” posted Free throughout
the Commonwealth, giving the Opinions of the Press of Australasia.
ADVICE by Lettee, ONE POUP D (including, medicine). REMEDIES forwarded Free from Observation to
all parts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the States.
Dr. MARTIN nas with him all the Latest European Treatments, including the Brovvne-Seciuard, Krafft-
Ebling, and Ivnox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidney, Bladder, and all
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has been so successful during his 24 years’ practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, yon receive the advice of a thorough, competent and
trustworthy phj sician. You are assured of proper and reliable treatment, of moderate charges, and rapid and
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “ Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St.
_ ALL COMJtfUNTCATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper when writing.)
“D.”: Australian cities are placarded with
signs of dressmakers, tailors, &c., whose plain name of
Brown or Jones is propped up with the announcement,
“ Late with Kobinson & Co.” Robinson & Co. having a
good reputation, people think the announcement is a
sufficient guarantee of Brown’s or Jones’s ability and act
accordingly. In many cases the suit or skirt is lament-
ably botched, and if the person who gave the order makes
diligent inquiry, he may find that Brown or Jones was
in Robinson’s employ for a week or fortnight shifting
packing-cases. The detriment to Robinson’s business,
does not concern me, but X hate to see my fellovv-crea*
tures in ill-fitting clothes. Not that I care a darn for my
fellow-creatures, but I don’t want their clothes to blot
the landscape while I ain using the landscape. Moreover,
I don’t want to be disturbed by rows. A Brown, who
was with Poole and Co.. London, has a shop near me,
and I heard one of his customers remonstrating with
Brown a few nights back, and his remarks about Poole
and Co. for turning out such a tradesman were terrible.
I don’t mind if the customer's clothes were a misfit, and
I don’t care if Brown and Poole and Co. are denounced
till the devil eats grass, but when Brown’s conduct
causes Jones or Smith to curse Poole just when I want to
be quiet, the thing is an outrage.
“ Deeby ” : Very few people have any idea how
much cursing often goes to the making of a coffin. I
once boarded with the undertaker of a Western town.
We had just sat down to tea, and the planter was
narrating how he once had to use a long-handled shovel
to get a “ Government job ” into its case, when an urgent
order arrived for a cheap, ordinary coffin. The pious-
looking undertaker received the intimation with a
beautiful expression of chastened grief. Tea over I
went, at the undertaker’s invitation, to see him make
a “ eorfin.” He soon got to work cutting up the
necessary planks (he was out of “slops” he told me),
but the saw was dull, or wanted setting or something,
a fact which raised the “planter’s” bile, for he broke
into dreadful language. Then in attempting to nail the
brittle pine hoards together, without previous boring,
they split, which gave rise to more blasphemy. But the
most terrific thing occurred when the artist decided that
the side pieces were not properly bent. Boiling water,
from a wash-tub close at hand, was applied to assist the
bending process. It was proceeding satisfactorily, and
the undertaker had just sat on a board to weigh it down,
when it broke with a loud report, and a frantic under-
taker was scrambling out of a tub of hot water. The
language that followed was something shameful ; even
the departed one was included in the curse. He decided
that certain hoards he had on hand would “ dashed well
have to do.” About 101 b. of melted pitch was used
to botch,up the large cracks and holes in the “box.”
Then Mrs. Undertaker, assisted by her daughter, started
the upholstering of the interior, while her husband tacked
some gorgeous tinsel on the black covered lid. “Ain’t
that pwetty ?” the undertaker presently exclaimed with
pride. I agreed that it was, for the coffin was now
finished, and with its gilt ferns, angels, and handles was
a work of art fit for an alderman. Then the casket was
gently lifted from the trestles for removal to an adjoining
room. And right here occurred the disaster of the
evening, for the undertaker, colliding with a box pro-
jecting from a dark corner, caused his wife to let go her
end of the coffin, which fell to the ground with a hollow
bang. When raised it wag found that the screws and
nails holding the sides to the head piece had given away.
Then the undertaker started to yell “ Well, strike me
”; but I made off.


FRUIT
JAR
RINGS
Best Quality.
All Fresh Stock.
Will not perish.
h
PEnomu & co.,
Rubber
Merchants,
ONLY
270 George
Sydney.
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel. 1198.
'flK most charming and stylish
Transformations and setai-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and seat anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
654 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN and
PRICE is. Id. Post Free.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Boiler Feed Pump.
»•“ SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, London
Warren Webster & Co. now
Enquiries Invited fob «.,»»
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
ĥ
TA.3XTGYBS
Oil Engines
Sole Australian Rejbeskntattvjbs—
BENNIE, TEARS & CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth and Coolgardie.
ħ
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence St., Sydney.
FAY-EGAN WOODWORKING MACHINERY
h
of Vise.
y
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, a Addeess ot
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, eto*, «to»
ĥ
ħ
h
T. M. GOODALL & CO., 129 hay st., sydhey
m»ve .N stock »- p to „«■<«- Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
ĥ
neers and Mining: Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting:,
Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
~ z ~rwmfo&s. ■'&=
Size, 6|" x 3J" x 5».
©
are
importers
and Have
for Sale-
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all sizes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Re piisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
B. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLAREKTCE STREET. sYDNESTT.
The RAND DRILL CO., New York,
MAKE THE BEST
ROCK DRILLS »»>AIR COMPRESSORS
m THE MARKET.
LITTLE OIANT DRILL*
for SIMPLICITY
OF
ECONOMY OF WORKING AND MAINTENANCE
The Little Giant and Slugger Drills.
The Imperial High-Speed Compressors.
The Imperial Pneumatic Tools.
The Harrison Coal-Cutting Machines.
Particulars and Quotations ■from the Agents
71 Clarence St., Sydney. N. QUTHRIDGE, L™ 486 Collins St., Melbourne.
