

McEWAN’S ALE.
■ ;
GAELIC WHISKY
BEAVER STOUT.
The Bulletin
Vol. 25,—No. 1270.]
[Thursday, June 16, 1004.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
107 Kent
Mining and
Street, Syaney,
—FOR —
Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
9
Me LA REN'S Compound
Traction Steam Engine.
M
JOHI BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
ps'lraoaKrES'sr,
EARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
O. BLDBIDGE &c CO.
DYERS & GLEANERS, 7
4:0 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post-from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
w.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 86 p lttStree ,, SYDNEY.
•ole Agents for d. & H. MCLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Steam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Spcoial Work.
We Stook and have to arrive McLaren's Compound Traction Engines; RUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines;
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES-—^-
BOTTLED
AMSIHM
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
BCOBA.RX.
tffrX
Radley s Orient Hotel.
PJONEER
LEATHER
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
• USLIMAN and BUCCANEER,
► Price Is. Id. Post Free.
CO
4
O.i o
E ROOM’S
3 NO! AH
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S. Africa,
Egypt,China and Ceylon
o
and used by all the best players in India. Agents wanted
in Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports deals saddleri
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
M
EROOM&CG.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
s -r‘
Q V
the royal
E DISWAN LAMP.
i 1111
f *1 mm
EDIS
A, ■
2 00r,
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
mm a m
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch :
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dep6t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
The representative book of Australian humor—
STEELE RUDD’S
“ On 0«r Selection."
B
USHMAN AND BUCCANEER,
Brioe, Is. Id.; Post Free.
*
few-
\
A Gold or Silver Watch Free!
SEND NO MONEY.
hereby undertake to
'' give one of cur Famous
or Silver Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman or Child who sends us the
correct reading of the following PUZZLE
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct
?rl l . l^ T 1 c ChaBe one of our SOLID STERLING SILVER
CHAINS, or one of our Gold-Filled Warranted Chains
to wear with the Watch. ’
D**T M**S T**S C****E
Simply forward your answer, and enclose stamped
j and addressed envelope, so that
we may inform you if you have
iSfV 01 ' 1 ",! h ,' **■* - Sv.«,”J k S
goods. Forwaid j our letter to our address : for Box 865 G p"Y) 1
PITT STB.FFT svnwrv |
THE
PLUM’
: D
‘PLUM’
Q. ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered u
, ike a bell, and never requires grinding. ' Being practical tradesmen ourselve we know firrOU *BW*
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a the exacfc klnd of
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS. f ° b of years, can testify
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor 7s. 6d
“RAZOLEQ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake
6 tStaatXt* SOS SW± & ~
Reoistered AND Sent Post Free TO ANY Part OF THE Woeld. ’ '
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents: CRAIG & AITKEM, 654 George-st., Sydnev
—rawwwr"'»»»■■ whi ■mu nib 3
BOOM ERANGA
The Resident Medical Officer of a large
Colonial Hospital writes : “Our patients have
greatly benefited by the use of Joshua’s
Boomerang Brandy. It is a very Nourishing
and Beneficial Stimulant.”
BRANDY.
RALCOC I DE
vircj^oiis'riEiiED.;
The Golden Drink Cure
A Simple Home Remedy.
a 9r a , nses the s >' stem ia three weeks from the
dreadful curse of Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OF WORK.
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE TREATMENT
Particulars post free, under cover.
Strictly Confidential.
A. G. lUMSDEN,
74 VICTORIA ROAD,
AUBURN, MELBOURNE.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A. P Yfj)kpJT?°M EiB 'R 6 l D / ffere u fc Ar « c les, comprising
• lnd biown n' /torf r ? aby (can be carrie d in vest pocket
and blown otit to life-size—ciuises roars.of laughter). Book
fricks IJ \'hp‘"p r '' l<jks ( c °ntaining over 100 coin and card
f?.’ th c Puzzle Ring, the Wizard’s Fish (gives the
tinmen KV y «s^ superior for parlor enter-
tamments), the Joker’s Love Bond (a good catch!
C Thp P w ion 1°’ r S <?mhina u 0n C om et Candle and
TrlnV i Th *. ? 'f, ard s Kln g or the Disappearing Coin
rick, and, last of all, the Famous Wizard of the iforth’s
Th,i Pac ? of Cards (instructions enclosed)
free! on 2s Gd! d t 0 any address in Anstralasiai
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
New York Novelty Co.,
7lO George Street, Sydney,
Poultry.
Grantham Stud Poultry Farm,
PLUMPTON, ROOTY HILL, N.S.W.
|
Winners of First Australian
Laying- Competition.
D REEDERS of Snow-white Leg-
horns, Buff and Black Orpingtons,
Wyandottes, Minorcas, etc.
Our Birds are bred for business as
well as show.
EGGS FOR HATCHING AND
BIRDS FOR SALE.
SEND FOR OUR CATALOGUES. Posted Free.
-
It is HELIPQIM Spa that “ Glitters in the


THE RED PAGE.
The Task op the Historian.
Some of the most pleasurable incentives to
action he must disregard. Not for him are those
rewards which, in other pursuit's, the same energy
would have earned; not for him a share in the
councils of his country ; not for him a conspicuous
and honoured place before the public eye. Albeit
conscious of what he could do, he may not com-
pete in the great contest; he cannot hope to win
the prize; he cannot even enjoy the excitement
of the struggle. To him, the arena is closed. His
recompense lies within himself, and he must learn
to care little for the sympathy of his fellow-
creatures or for such honours as they are able
to bestow. So far from looking for these
things, he should rather be prepared for
that obloquy which always awaits those who,
by opening up new veins of thought, dis-
turb the prejudices of their contemporaries.
While ignorance, and worse than ignorance, is
imputed to him, while his motives are misrepre-
sented, and his integrity impeached, while he is
accused of denying the value of moral principles,
and of attacking the foundation of all religion as if
he were some public enemy, who made it his busi-
ness to corrupt society, and whose delight it was
to see what evil he could do; while these charges
are brought forward, and repeated from mouth to
mouth, he must be capable of pursuing in silence
the even tenor of his way, without pausing, and
without stepping from his path to notice the angry
outcries which he cannot but hear, and which he
is more than human if he does not long to rebuke.
These are the qualities, and these are the high
resolves, indispensable to him, who, on the most
important of all subjects, believing that the old
road is worn out and useless, seeks to strike out a
new one for himself, and, in the effort, - not only
perhaps exhausts his strength, but is sure to incur
the enmity of those who are bent on maintaining
the ancient scheme unimpaired. To solve the
great problem of affairs; to detect those hidden
circumstances which determine the march and
destiny of nation^; and to find, in the events of
the past, a key to the proceedings of the future,
is nothing less than to unite into a single science
all the laws of the moral and physical world.
Whoever does this will build up afresh the fabric
of our knowledge, re-arrange its various parts,
and harmonise its apparent discrepancies.
Perchance the human mind is hardly ready for
so vast an enterprise. At all events, he who
undertakes it will meet with little sympathy, and
will find few to help him. And let him toil as he
may, the sun and noontide of his life shall pass by,
the evening of his days shall overtake him, and he
himself have to quit the scene, leaving that un-
finished which he had vainly hoped to complete.
He may .lay the foundation ; it will be for his suc-
cessors to raise the edifice. Their hands will give
the last touch; they will reap the glory; their
names will be remembered when he is forgotten.
It is, indeed, too true that such a work requires,
not only several minds, but also the successive ex-
perience of several generations.
Once, I own, I thought otherwise. Once, when
I first caught sight of the whole field of knowledge
and seemed, however dimly, to discern its various
parts and the relation they bore to each other, I
was so entranced with its surpassing beauty, that
the judgment was beguiled, and I deemed myself
able, not only to cover the surface, but also to
master the details. Little did I know how the
horizon enlarges as well as recedes, and how
vainly we grasp at the fleeting forms, which melt
away and elude us in the distance. Of all that 1
had hoped to do, I now find but too surely how
small a part I shall accomplish.
In those early aspirations, there was much that
was fanciful ; perhaps there was much that was
foolish. Perhaps, too, they contained a moral
defect, and savoured of an arrogance which belongs
to a strength that refuses to recognise its own
weakness. Still,‘even now that they are defeated
and brought to nought, I cannot repent having
indulged in them, but, on the contrary, I would
willingly recall them, if I could. For, such hopes
belong to that joyous and sanguine period of life,
when alone we are really happy ; when the emo-
tions are more active than the judgment; when
experience has not yet hardened our nature;
when the affections are not yet blighted ana
nipped to the core; and when the bitterness of
disappointment not having yet been felt, ditncul-
ties are unheeded, obstacles are unseen, ambition
is a pleasure instead of a pang, and the blood
coursing swiftly through the veins, the pulse beats
high, while the heart throbs at the prospect of the
future. Those are glorious days; but they go
from us, and nothing can compensate their
absence.
IN that noble and pathetic passage of his
History of Civilisation in Ungland
Henry Thomas Buckle reviews the his-
torian’s horizon. His unique book,
one of the masterpieces of literature, is now
published by Routledge, London, in a single
volume at 55., with the advantage of an
introduction and notes by J. M. Robertson,
Buckle’s most talented commentator. The
type used is inevitably smaller than could be
wished, but it is new and clear, and not too
small for good Australian eyes. And to
every young Australian, to every Australian
who has not read Buckle’s book, the new
edition cannot be too warmly commended.
It is one of the most interesting, one of the
most illuminating, one of the most stimu-
lating books ever written : it raises and
enlarges the mind. Scarcely any price would
be too great to pay for it.
Buckle was born in England in 1821. He
died in Palestine in 1862, of typhoid fever.
Buckle was all his life a typical foe of super-
stition, a characteristic lover of science and
light, a hater of physical filth and mental
darkness. It is a paradoxical coincidence
that he should travel to a haunt of supersti-
tion, there to meet his death by a filth-bred
disease.
Buckle’s father was a well-to-do merchant,
who died when he was nineteen years of age.
He never married, and devoted himself to
his mother and to literary labour. His men-
tal activity was prodigious. A sickly child,
his health remained weak through manhood.
Yet he mapped out at the age of twenty a
plan of life and work that the strongest
energies could scarcely have fulfilled, and
followed it day after day, year after year,
with an indomitable force of genius. For
fourteen years he laboured at his History
before the first volume took by storm the
world of readers, and at once made the un-
known author famous. Until then he had
not published a line.
J*
Hope of fame and a just confidence in
his own powers spurred Buckle to concen-
trate himself entirely upon his task. He
lived by rule and precept, rising at a regular
hour, walking regularly before breakfast, and
spending the morning at his desk. In the
afternoon he walked for an hour and a half,
read, dined, and spent the evening socially
or in reading, going to bed with a book.
Having found the routine that suited him,
he rarely permitted it to be broken. He
smoked three cigars a day—one after break-
fast, one before dinner, and one going to
bed—three and no more. He could not
work without them, and would not stop in a
place where he was not permitted to smoke
each at its appointed time. Only by meticu-
lous attention to details, he said, could he
carry on his work.
His habit of mind led him to place value
on what are commonly called trifles. His
biographer Huth says that he only ate toast
on Mondays, because on that day the bread
was more than one day old ; but his servant
had to bring up the toasting-fork into the
dining-room and make the toast as required.
No woman, he said, could niake tea until he
had taught her ; the great thing was to have
it very hot, the cups and even the spoons
should be warmed. The tea was to stand
a little longer when the tea caddy was rather
full, to allow time for the leaves to unroll;
but at the bottom of the caddy there were
more broken leaves, and hence so much time
need not be allowed.
Withal he was socially sought after for
his brilliant conversation. Like Macaulay
he seemed to have read everything and re-
membered everything. His proficiency at
mental games such as whist was remarkable.
In chess he was accounted a master, playing
on even terms with adepts such as Staunton
and Loewenthal.
In some practical ways Buckle reminds one
of Herbert Spencer ; but Buckle’s was the
finer talent—though not, perhaps, the
greater. Like Spencer, Buckle carried his
philosophical conclusions into his daily life.
He never gave haphazard to a beggar, since
charity is demoralising to the recipient. He
took the beggar’s name and address (often
false) and walked to the address given,
unless this was beyond the radius of his daily
allotted seven miles. If he found genuine
distress, he relieved it, and returned home
glowing with exercise and the pleasure of a
good deed philosophically done.
Buckle had a horror of running in debt;
he was disgusted with the idea that literary
men are necessarily improvident creatures,
to be helped with pensions ; and only on
books and cigars did he spend money freely.
He accumulated a library of 22,000 volumes,
and sold the books when he had finished with
them. He read systematically, pencil in
hand, and very quickly ; and copied his notes
into commonplace books that are monuments
of industry. These were carefully indexed
and regularly re-read. He studied every
subject that could assist his book, and ac-
quired a working knowledge of a dozen
languages. But he was deaf to music, and
had little taste for the fine arts. In his
portraits he looks curiously childlike : all
his life, indeed, he remained the precocious
child of genius.
&
The celebrated History begins with a mis-
nomer. The volumes that Buckle lived to
complete are really only a part of the intro-
duction to the history he planned,, a gigantic
scaffolding for his building. He conceived
that it was necessary first to state the laws
of human progress, and to illustrate them
from the history of certain nations in which
certain tendencies predominated —in other
words, before investigating the history of
England it was necessary to investigate
history generally. And he lived to complete
only a part of this preliminary investigation.
Buckle prided himself on his power of
generalisation, and indeed he generalised
grandly. He supported his generalisations
with an astonishing accumulation of know-
ledge, ranged orderly, and set forth in a
style that is often of majestic eloquence.
Much has been learned since Buckle’s day,
and both in his hypotheses and his con-
clusions thei’e seems now to be much needing
alteration. But the alteration is not vital to
the spirit of Buckle’s work. His innate
clarity and strength of mind were such that
the general justice of his judgments is un-
shakeable, and the series of arguments and
illustrations by which he supported them re-
tains perennial interest. As historian, he is
truly philosophic.-
He begins by affirming the systematic
regularity of human actions, and their clear
dependence upon physical agents. These
are defined as climate, food, soil, and the
general aspect of nature. Then he proceeds
to examine the laws of the mind, and decides
that the discovery of intellectual truth is the
cause of human progress. The laws of intel-
lectual advancement are deduced and illus-
trated from the history of England, France,
Spain, and Scotland. Had he lived, Buckle
purposed adding illustrations from the his-
tory of Germany and America, after con-
sidering literary authorities in the light
given by travel.
This imperfect outline can give no idea of
the character and method of Buckle’s work.
That is to be accepted or debated, but
studied. Of its hot ardour for truth, its
fierce love of liberty—Buckle’s cardinal
instincts, a closing illustration may be drawn
from his minor writings. In the year 1857
a demented labourer named Thomas Pooley,
living in Cornwall, “wrote upon a gate a
few silly words expressive of his opinion
respecting the potato-rot and the Bible,'
and also of his hatred of Christianity.” A
clergyman and magistrate, moved by another
clergyman, committed him for trial, and
Mr. Justice Coleridge sentenced him to im-
prisonment for a year and nine months. In
jail he became quite mad, and he was sent to
the county lunatic asylum. After five
months he was released. J. S. Mill drew
attention to the matter, and Buckle, in
Fraser’s Magazine, printed a scathing attack
upon Judge Coleridge. The Judge’s son
replied, and Buckle printed his celebrated
“ Letter to a Gentleman Respecting Pooley’s
Case,” in which the following passages
occur.
A Defence of Fkee Speech,
In England the abrogation of a law is gradual,
and usually passes through three stages. First, it
is reasoned against or ridiculed ; then it falls into
discredit; and finally, it is either repealed, or else
by common consent it is disused. This is the his-
tory of those cruel laws which our ancestors
cherished ; such, for example, as the laws relating,
to heresy, witchcraft, and slavery, which, before
they were done away with, were opposed by public
opinion and discountenanced by our judges. All
these things are part of the same scheme; they
belong to the same turn of mind, and must stand
or fall together. It is natural that when slavery
was legal, heresy should have .been illegal. It is
also natural that, in such a state of society,
heretical or blasphemous opinions should be
punished.
We have, however, long been outgrowing those
views, not because we love blasphemy, but because
we love liberty. We look upon impious language
as proof of a vulgar mind ; but we are not to cast
into prison an honest man, and beggar his family,
on account of his mind being vulgar. Even if the
blasphemy is of such a kind as to indicate de-
pravity on the part of the utterer, no one is con-
cerned with it unless it tends to produce a breach
of the peace. If the public peace is in danger, he
who endangers it should be restrained. But to
punish blasphemy independently of these wider
considerations is a thing which this age will not
tolerate, and which is contrary to the whole tone
and scope both of modem literature and of modern
legislation.
The charge against Thomas Pooley was that he
uttered blasphemy. On this charge lie was com-
mitted ;on this he was indicted; and on this he
was sentenced. The criyie alleged was not that
he injured men’s property, not that he insulted
them, nor that he provoked them to violence. He
wrote upon a private gate, which he had no right
to, and for which, therefore, redress might have
been reasonably exacted. That was an offence ;
and if his conduct was likely to disturb the public
peace, that was another offence. But instead of
receiving such slight punishment as these offences
would justify, he was punished as a blasphemer ;
and a judge was found capable of sentencing
this poor, helpless, and ignorant man to twenty-one
months’ imprisonment. . Shame ! shame on it! In
compliance with the humane and enlightened
spirit of this age, the practice of punishing men
for words which calumniate no individual and im-
peril no government was fast falling into disuse
when it was revived by Sir John Coleridge. This
is his offence, and a most serious and, so far as he
is concerned, irreparable offence it is. It is a re-
vival of cruelty ; it is a revival of bigotry ; it is a
revival of the tastes, the habits, and the feelings
of those days of darkness which we might have
hoped had gone for ever...
Yet a few years, and Sir John Coleridge and
Thomas Pooley will be numbered with the dead.
But though the men will die, the principles which
they represent are immortal. The powerful and
intolerant judge seeking to stop the mouth of the
poor and friendless well-sinker is but the type of
a far older and wider struggle. In every part of
the civilised world the same contest is raging, and
the question is still undecided, whether or not
men shall say what they like; in other words,
whether language is to be refuted by language or
whether it is to be refuted by force. Disguise it
as you will, this is the real issue.
In this great warfare between liberty and re-
pression, Sir John Coleridge has chosen his side
and I have chosen mine. But he, being armed
with the power of the executive government,
has been able to carry matters with a
high hand, and to strengthen his party, not
indeed by arguments, but by violence. Instead
of refuting, he imprisons. My weapons are of
another kind, and shall I not use them ? Am I
for ever to sit by in silence ? Are all the blows to
be dealt from one side, and none from the other ?
I think not. I think it is but right and fitting
that Sir John Coleridge, and those who agree with
him, should be ; taught that literature is able to
punish as well as to persuade, and that she never
exercises her high vocation with greater dignity
than when, upholding the weak against the strong,
she lets the world see that she is no respecter of
persons, but will, if need be, strike at
place, and humble the proudest name, •
————, ■
“ Man ! He is the unsesthetic animal par excel-
lence. That hairy visage recalling the gorilla
would alone suffice to frighten me from masculine
love. Oh, the ugliness of men!” exclaims Mile.
Renee Vivien in Une Femme Apparut. (Birthrate
Commission please shave.)
Elijah—not Dowie, but the elder Hebrew—is
seriously set down as a criminal in March Archives
of Criminal Anthropology (Paris); and criminally
it is decided that he comes in a very dangerous
class: a modern State would make short work of
Elijah.
“Whistler, in the main original profoundly,”
writes F. Wedmore, “did submit conspicuously,
in the course of his life, to two influences. He
submitted to the influence of Albert Moore, and
to that of the art of Japan.”
April Nineteenth Century prints a comparative
list of national debts per head in 1901. This is
the country that heads the list-
common wealth of Australia .. 511. 3s. 4d.
And this is the country that foots it—
Japan .. .. . • .. If. 6s. 4 d.
Between them comes the rest of the world,
stressing the significance of the contrast.
Other books include—
A Prince of Cornwall, a romance of the Saxon
Conquest, by C. W. Whistler (Lond., Warne; 65.)-.
The Clyde Engineering Co.’s (Granville, N.S. W-)
Catalogue of General Engineering is a substantial
volume, liberally illustrated with delineations of
industrial machinery. We have found it interest-
ing—nearly as interesting as an old-fashioned
bookseller’s- catalogue, with the luscious descrip-
tions of rare copies in levant bindings, books one
would never read, could never buy. The catalogue ■
of Bohn’s libraries too, used to be a treasure to an
imaginative mind : how one longed to expend the
164;. ss. or some such sum that (as it was carefully
added) would procure the Antiquarian Library and
the Classical Library and all the other libraries to-
gether. Study of the Clyde catalogue brings a
different pleasure—a pleasure of watching the pre-
cise adjustment of means to ends, a satisfaction of
the intellectual need for harmony that is the basis
of the ethical idfea of justice as it is the basis of a
good carpenter’s pride in an invisible joint. Some
such satisfaction warmed the mind of the honest
N.Q. clergyman some time ago quoted (before the
birthrate worried us) who lifted admiring hands at
the wonderful works of the children of men,
and exclaimed, “ Fu st I baptise a boy, and then a
girl; then a girl, and then a boy. How these
little* things do dovetail in ! ” You see he had
more than a feeling of his business; he could stand
outside his business and contemplate results as we
have been contemplating a noble engraving of a
Cornish boiler in the Clyde catalogue. First, one
sees that the printer has mixed his black ink with
blue, after the manner of incompetent printers—
because good black ink does not work as freely as-
blue, though it yields an artistic result finer m
proportion to the pains it demands. Then,
passing the admirable way in which the draughts-
man has given character and individuality to each
of several hundred rivets (with some inevitable
loss of chiaroscuro) one thinks what a grand me-
chanical contrivance the Cornish boiler is: how
well it holds its ground for special uses in the face
of I jan cash ires, horizontals, verticals, and all the
multitubular modes. And if one lingers with the
Cornish, one lingers in the very seat and centre
of romance ; for
They found a naked child upon the sands
Of dark Tintagil by the Cornish Sea,
And, that was Arthur,
the mightiest demiurge of legend. One would
like to own a Cornish boiler as a, source of
inspiration (or a camp of refuge), but e
Clyde catalogue does not quote prices. .rrooaoiy
it would be beyond one’s means—not always as
precisely adjusted to the end.
A.G.S.
BOOKS FOR COUNTRY LIBRARIES
GEORGE
ROBERTSON
& GO. PROP. LTD.
71 Gastlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
All in Cloth Binding; price 3s. 6d. each, post 6d. extra.
Lewis, The Boss ; Myrtle Reed, The Shadow of Victory ; Oppenheim, Anna the
Adventuress ; Bram Stoker, Jewel of Seven Stars ; Penny, The Sanyasi ; Bilse,
Life in a Garrison Town ; Hooking, Esau ; Major, A Forest Hearth ; Wilson
Barrett, The Never-Never Land ; Atherton, Ruler of Kings ; Crockett, Strong
Mac ; Philpotts, American Prisoner ; Hales, Watcher on the Tower ; Adams,
Tussock Land ; Pemberton, Red Morn ; Merriman, Tomaso’s Fortune ; Hyne,
M'Todd ; Moore, Shipmates in Sunshine ; Haggard, Stella Fregelius ; Haggard,
Smoking Flax Gallon, In a Little House ; Fowler, Place and Power.
THE BULLETIN Company will publish on Ist July a
Cheaper Edition of the book declared by con-
noisseurs and the press to be the most attractive book of the
kind published in this country— Phil May in Australia.
This contains a hundred pages of reproductions of May’s brilliant
drawings for The Bulletin —including many splendid portraits of
notabilities, the series of “Things We See When We Go Out
Without Our Gun,” and a selection of May’s best cartoons and
humorous pictures. Price, Half-a-Crown j posted,
2s. lOd. Seat to any address immediately on publication in
return for postal note forwarded to The Bulletin office.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE.
. j THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
V-'.
,
A. The Larynx, or organ or
voice. .
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
(£. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung'
jj. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
NUPSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain NO Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
„„ or from Mil
stamps. Sydney Depot: 5& 7 Queen’
ain no oocaine or otner roisonw"® -■=>


M
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Pat Stock Salesmen,
SYI33NrE' , Sr. .
SKINS
Kangaroo, Bear,
Wallaby, Rabbit,
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
For Highest Prices
and Quick Returns,
SYDNEY.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation. SYDNEY
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK BYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYFLASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. >
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
The Leading: House for Sporting: Goods and Tobacco
I. Hollis
& Sons'
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
n
N
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gautre, Top Lever, Bar acuon, JSeal Twist or Steel
Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt, Left Choke, Rehounding Locks, Snap Fore-
~ end, chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powders.
HOLLIS & SONS’ “ KITCHENER,” 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, top lever, double
bolted action, extended rib, twist or steel barrels, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
left choke, right cyclinder, rebounding locks, hammers below line of sight, snap
fore-end, half pistol walnut stock, GUARANTEED.FOR SMOKELESS f?K
POWDER. Absolutely the best value in the States at price 3ww
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “Siemen’s” steel barrels, both
choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent
fore-end, fitted with the Greener cross bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for 2fin.
cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and n-|rt -«A fi
absolutely the finest quality Gun in the States ~ 1 A
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING RIFLE, 1903 model, Special ng
22 Calibre, fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight s|lbs.
AMMUNITION.
•oooi **a ‘out -laj
UNIVERSAL CARTRIDGES
UNIVERSAL ~
NEW RIVAL „
NEW CLUB „
E. B. SMOKELESS „
AMBERITE „
E.O.
M 12*. 6/-per 100
.. 16*. 6/6 „ „
• ■ 12*. 6/6 i,
.. 12*. 6/6 „ „
..16 or 12*. 9/- ~ „
12*. 11/6 „ „
12*. 12/- „ „
WINCHESTER 22 ahort .. ... n 1/3 10/6
,, 22 long .. .. .. 1/5 12/6
,, 2‘2 ex. Ion! .. u 2/- 18/—
,, 22 long shot, . . .. 2/6 23/6
,, '1‘: Bhut't, smuuelesa .. 1/6 14/-
" 2‘2 lulu: .. . . 1/9 16/-
., 22 uuulumtiu . . . . 2/3 21/-
gPE*' REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
M
Folding
Collector Gun, 410 g.
A Splendid Shot Gun for Orchards, blued steel
barrel, case-hardened locks - "
WINCHESTER ” S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or Y sights
scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2flbs. ...
"REMINGTON” S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in. barrel
weight 3£lbs. ...
WINCHESTER Repeating Rifles, 1892 Model, any calibre, half or full
magazine Round barrel, 555. ; Octagon barrel,
FIEFER’S “BAYARD” S.S. Rifles, 22 Cal., 20in. octagon barrel, weight
3|lbs 13s. 6d.
15
18
0
17
1
0
6
0
6
6
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST VALUE IN THE STATES
GUARANTEED
PERFECTLY
ACCURATE**
RELIABLE.
f’] sm r\e” fl e
f
Rifle Ap^rf
22 Short or Long. Bin ti/nr, 80/tiAction „
Bound dined Stic ei /cinch BarreJ, hieightlfi i>
fitted n/ihpie/nltiorSt/d/ng Bock Sights
(Suarrenfeedfor 3oo Yos). Poiisheanoinor
Stock. Postage onfftf/e.hdo extio.
MICK SIMMONS,
(ti&'Yrt<3rketi, cb'rDnt&sC.
M
WITH PLAIN SIGHTS 13/a
SLIDIHG- SIGHTS TO 3OOYOS 1 5/6
Carfr/dgea c*n OnfyOe De/ivered by Rail or Boat
REAS ORE BOOKS!
They explain everything you wish to know. They tell exactly whether your ailment can be cured by
Electricity, and the treatment of same. They tell of the many disorders that are cured by its use, and some of
the wonderful results that have been obtained. If your ailments be
Nervousness or Weakness, with Loss of Energy or Ambition ; if you
have a Weak Back, or a pain over the Kidneys, and down into the
groin ; if you suffer from a bad working Liver, or have Indigestion,
Dyspepsia, Flatulency, Acidity, Headaches, or Disturbed Sleep, with
furred tongue in the mornings ; if your complaint be Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago, or any Pain or Ache of the Limbs or Body—then
Electricity is the remedy for you. Send for one of our Books at once.
They tell you more about these ailments. In addition they are full
of Engravings showing how the Belt and attachments are applied.
They cost you nothing, and will benefit you to have one. Sent
FREE and postage paid to any address.
SEE THESE RESULTS
Mr. 0. 0. HOLMES, O.N. (late R.N.), KYNETON,
VIC., writes Dear Blre,—l am very pleased with
the Belt so far. It ie doing: what you said it would,
and I f sel the better for wearing: it. I used to feel
knocked up after a day’s work, but now I feel it
hard y at all, so 1 say thank God for all things, and
I thank you, too, for your kindness In what you
have been the means of doing with an old veteran
who was 70 years of age on the 9th November,
1903. I hope you will be spared for many years
to oome to relieve suffering humanity.
“ ELECTRICITY IS LIFE.”
Nature’s natural assistant. It is
a vitaliser. It acts directly upon
the energy we call “Life.” It for-
tifies its strength. It increases
and stimulates its activity. And
no Weak ITan or Sickly Woman
can remain in health without it.
Mr. W. LEADBITTER, CLARENCE TOWN, N.S.W.,
writes Dear Sirs, —I must say your Belt is a
wonderful thing. I cannot see why people are so
blind as not to see the virtue of it. The money
spent on it is not thrown away. My pains are
leaving me fast, and by the next time I write I
expect to be able to say that I am quite right.
Mr. J. R. DIXON, ARMIDALE, N.8.W., states
Dear Sirs,—Now that I have worn and tested your
Belt lam not afraid to speak of its great good. It
is indeed a marvel, and where all kinds of medi-
cine has failed it has brought relief. I can sicep
much better, and rise wonderfully Invigorated in
the morning after heavy Sunday services. My
health is improving daily, and I must thank you
for your kind advice for I am truly a new man.
Your Belt is a "God-given Gift” to anyone who
may be suffering.
Dr. McLaughlin s electric belt
a
%
o
will do for you what all other means on earth cannot do. It puts
back into the System the Electricity, which, having been wasted,
causes most of the troubles of mankind. It tones, strengthens,
and builds up the body, and where disease lurks (the result of these
weaknesses) it heals as no other treatment can. Every Weak Man
or Woman will find this Belt the only genuine relief.
OUR ADVICE will be given FREE OF CHARGE daily from
9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. at our Offices, or if living at a distance and
unable to call, by means of our Special Diagnosis Chart. We will
advise you in your own home, and tell you if Electricity will
cure you or not.
Read this Testimony
Mr. WILLIAM GUTHRIE, 34 Earl-stroet, Petrie
Terrace, BRISBANE, Q’LAND, says Dear Sirs,—
Before I grot your Belt I was troubled with gravel
with all its severe pains, but since wearing your
Belt I thank Cod and you for my health being
restored, and I have no other trouble. lam glad
to say I am quite cured now. The Belt has brought
me out of misery to good health and spirits, and
if people only knew of It they would not suffer as
they do.
That Electricity is the greatest
Curative Agent, the greatest Life
Giver and Sustained is now recog-
nised universally. Every muscle
of the body may be thoroughly
and systematically exercised, and
the nerve centres stimulated, by
the mild, pleasant, steady current
generated by This Belt.
Mr. A. 0. GORMAN, Florence-street, PORT PIRIE,
S.A., writes Dear Sirs,—Your letter of inquiry to
hand. lam pleased to be able to say that the
Belt continues to work to full satisfaction, and
gives no trouble. As regards health It has Im-
proved me wonderfully, and I have not had the
slightest sign of any pain across my back, as I
ditl before wearing the Belt. Now that I have the
Belt I would not be without It for a smali fortune.
Mr. VINCENT PAIS, CLADESVILLE, N.S.W., says:
Dear Sirs, —With much pleasure I beg to bring to
your kind notice that, within two months’ time,
your Belt has cured my back and neckache per-
fectly, and it is one month now since I left off the
use of your Belt, and as I do not suffer in any way,
I think there is no need of wearing your Belt any
more. For your pleasure I take the Interest of
writing you these few lines for the publication as
my true letter.
To anyone calling: we will be pleased to show the working: of this Wonderful Electric Appliance
how it can be regrulated so that It may be worn without the slightest inconvenience.
Send for our Free Book and Advice to-day, and if your case is undertaken we guarantee a Cure.
THE MCLAUGHLIN ELECTRIC BELT CO.
Branches all Over the World. William Charles Crawford.
100 W. Market Street, Sydney
167 E. Swanston Street, Melbourne
N.Z. Office—s 4 Willis St., Wellington.


KesmK
IPhotograJjhg
is
so
SIMPLE.
You do everything in Daylight,
and therefore have no dark room
worries.
KODAKS, ALL PRICES, FROM 6/-
UPWARDS.
Full Particulars of all Dealers, and of
KODAK, Ltd.
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please mention this paper.
A NOVEL PRESENT.,
QN receipt of P. 0.0. or H.O. for 5/- we will forward to
v any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6,
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6,
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King;, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
drunkenness
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail.
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The crav-
ing for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will return,
refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will surprise and
delight you. Write to-day for treatise, posted two
stamps. Address:
d uaui ua. au a ress:
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
129 a COLLINS STREET, Melbocenb*
VITALOIDS
ARE the CONCENTRATED medicinal EXTRACTS of
RARE HERBS, ROOTS, BARKS and BLOSSOMS.
They REVITALISE the WEAK, NERVOUS and DEBILI-
TATED, cure LAME BACK, WEAK STOMACH, LIVER
and KIDNEY troubles, &c. THOUSANDS CURED
ANNUALLY. 4s. 6d. per box, post free. FIVE BOXES, £l.
VITALOD) AGENCY,
44 OASTLEREAGH
STREET, SYDNEY.
vanished vigor,
■F Exhausted or Debilitated Nerve
Force Speedily and
Permanently Restored.
For Forty Tears I have been curing thousands suffer-
ing from the same Weakness as you. Write to-day
for Treatise on Nerve and Brain exhaustion, posted
SIX STAMPS. My
Electro-Regenerator,
The Triumph of Medical Electricity.
It is not a Belt. No Vinesar or Acids to be used.
APPLIED DIRECTLY TO THE WEAK SPOT, AND
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF. Address—
SURCEOH LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., ENG.
129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SCALP AND HAIR
Something for Mothers to Think About
EVERY CHILD born into the world with an inherited
or early developed tendency to distressing, disfiguring
humours of the skin, scalp, and blood, becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not only because of its suf-
fering but because of the dreadful fear that the disfigura-
tion is to be lifelong and mar its future happiness and
prosperity. Hence it becomes the duty of mothers of
such afflicted children to acquaint themselves with the
best, the purest, and most effective treatment available,
viz THE CUTICURA TREATMENT.
Warm batha with Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales
and soften the thickened cuticle, gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, to instantly allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, to be followed in the severer cases by mild doses of Cuticura Resol-
vent Pills (see below), to cool and cleanse the blood, are all that can be
desired for the alleviation of the suffering of skin-tortured infants and
children and the comfort of worn-out, worried mothers. A single set is
often sufficient to cure when the best physicians fail.
Millions of Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticuka Ointment, for preserving, purifving, and beautifying the skin, for
cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping of falling hair, for
softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings,
and chaflngs, in the form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
Cuticura Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated) are prepared to meet the wants of
delicate women, and sensitive children, and are pure, sweet, and tasteless. They are
beyond question the most successful blood purifiers and humour cures yet compounded.
Cuticuba Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depots R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Fail, Paris. Potteb Dp.ug and Chkm.
Cose., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A. “ All about the Skin,” free.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
INN
DS
NC
MAG N‘Emgl. A
m
ime
ice
kVVWWVt *///////M
The basis of which is “Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to Worcester
and otKer Sauces.
AGENTS— Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
r///////1 * \ Hi I• y
Montserrat
&-
i
WILL ANDRADE’S u.,. BOOKS
”w
4. iwté$¥y
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is.
How to Wrestle, 9d and
Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Amateur House Builder,
Is 3d. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Sighs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/S. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise :Htpnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing, Is 3d. How to Make Love, Is 3d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; Miner’s
Guide, 3s 6d. Maria Monk, Is 9d. Minstrel Show,
jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making Secrets, Is.
Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : 3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self In-
structor, Is. Physical Health Culture, exercises
without apparatus, Is 3d. Ogilvie’s Hearts of Gold,
ss. French Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for
2s. Cabinet Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d!
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Our New
Selection, 6s 6d. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is
6d. Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court
of England, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is’ 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is’
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d. ’
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No 3 •
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre!
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No 6 •
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHtS,
BEFORE GOING TO BED
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth
Powder
instead of leaving your teeth exposed
all night to the spread of decay.
It is antiseptic, pleasant and
refreshing, and has the largest sale
of any dentifrice.
CALVERT’S
Prickly-Heat Soap
(10% Crystal Carbolic)
is a pleasant antiseptic soap, specially suited
for bath and toilet use in hot climates.
P. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester
ENGLAND.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Tho Old Rsliablo English Remodjf.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Tkuman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
RX CORO's
tSS&** cE °f U F
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKME9B, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agtnts for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; iY.N.lF.—Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
Too Stout
I was for years; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to XOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney*
Sending, mention this paper.
w.
-pREE BY POST.—A reliable
recipe from the SPECIAL
FORMULA of that FAMOUS
French HOSPITAL PHYSICIAN
and PARISIAN SPECIALIST, Dr.
RABONSKI. A positive CURE
for the WEAK and NERVOUS.
Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
Free to Men.
WRITE to me and I will forward you iny scientific-
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Wr'.c
Mons. Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St.,Melbourne,


/
When the
thermome*
ter is low
We get careless and dress as if
it were summer. Then come
chills, colds, coughs. Keep
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
on hand. A dose or two at
the beginning will stop the
chills, break up the cold, and
prevent serious trouble. Look
out for cheap imitations.
In large and small bottles.
Avoid constipation. Hasten a cure by the
use of Ayer’s Hills.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
T T STI
SPOONER’S
sa
&
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning 1 and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
EVERY WOMAN
M
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The
best, safest & most convenient.
It Clenses Instantly]
If your Chemist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated book, sent free-
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, endorsed by physicians.
AWARDED—
Diploma of Honor and Gold Medal by
Societe D’Hygiene de France, Oct, 9,1902.
The only Female Syringe in the world
which has ever received this honor.
THE MARVEL ©O.,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POSTAL ADDRESS,BOX 623, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted, Write for Terms.
Mention this paper.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
. . IS THE . .
STANDARD REMEDY
3
3
3
23
for WEAK LUNGS.
BRONCHITIS.
ANAEMIA.
RICKETS.
EARLY STAGES OF
„ CONSUMPTION.
PNEUMONIA.
MEASLES. '
SCROFULA.
CHILDREN’S DISEASES.
Scott’s Emulsion is
useful to Children and
Old People. It is the
Best Food Medicine
in the World. . . .
A?
M
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
THIS IS
THE TRADE MARK!
ﬂ
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s
i™“ ls T T b 7 send \ n g, 4d. (for postage) to
Scott & Bowne Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, and mentioning this paper.
Songs of the Waters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Maryborough (Vic.) will celebrate the
jubilee of its foundation in July. A few months
after gold had been discovered on Simson’s run,
50,000 diggers were on the field. Two members
of the original local vigilance committee are still
living—Charles Tattam, of South Yarra, and Dr.
M‘Donald, of Sale.
Outward.
Hauling out, hauling out —O the outward ships
are sailing
Down the lilac sunset, carpet-spread along the
glinting sea.
Tacking out, tacking out—O the Wander spirit
wailing !
The open sea-ways beckon—stay an outward ship
for me.
Let me out ; set me sailing ! Let me see the
sprawling breakers
Huddle one upon another with the snarling wind
at heel;
Let me watch the creeping darkness blotting out
the star-white beach line—
Hear the crying in the rigging, feel the tremble at
the keel.
0 the craving for the Open—the loneliness
unbroken—
The cramping land forgotten in the vastness of
the sea ;
Drifting days awash in sunlight, falling back
unmourned, uncounted,
Darkness throbbing with the promise of the
■ morrow still to be.
What is there behind me that shall keep me on the
Landing ?
Nothing ; God, there’s nothing but the grass upon
her grave,
Years that have withered like the flowers upon
her coffin—
God forgot the promise that wouid kill the Out-
ward crave. >
Sleep soundly, then, my Lost One, you are all
there is behind me ;
Ahead there shall be nothing that would hurt your
gentle rest.
West, or south, or east, I shall one remembrance
find me— •
The kiss upon your dead lips and the crossed
hands on your breast.
M.L.
J. BARR.
The Second Mate.
The second mate was fair, with a slight consump-
tive air,
And a sunny -smile and eyes of dreamy blue,
And his tenor voice was sweeter than the voice of
sainted Peter
When he says “Walk in ! I’ve waited long for
you.”
It was soft, and high, and clear, and it filled the
atmosphere,
Hot and close, with dreams of roses and of snow,
When it rose in “Annie Laurie” I was exqui-
sitely sorry
That Bonnie Annie died so long ago.
He could sing in tender tone all the sweet old
ballads known—■
“ The Banks and Braes o’ Doon” and “ Sands o’
Dee
And strong men stood aside, forgetting manly
pride,
And clutched the rail, and wept into the sea.
And his fingers flew like bees o’er these flowers we
call the keys—•
The white piano-flowers set in a row—
And he drew from them a splendid scent of days
begun and ended,
And sunrises and sunsets dreamers know.
And the masts across the moon swayed in silence
to the tune,
As the second mate did magically sing;
You could smell the rose of Sharon, you could see
the rod of Aaron
In each tall mast in the moonlight blossoming.
Yet his hand so delicate, it was like the hand of
Fate
When it fell upon a sailor slack at work ;
And if any Turk in swearing could use epithets
more daring,
I am sure I would not like to know that Turk.
N.S.W.
V.J.D.
The Hulks.
They have heard the ring of laughter,
They have carried freights of tears,
They have faced the great green rollers, tipped
with snow;
They have traversed all the oceans,
They have tarried at the piers,
They have come to rest at last in Rotten Row.
They have lost their sweeping pinions,
They are shorn of mast and spar.
Not a footstep stirs the echoes down below.
And the booming of the breakers,
On the far off harbor bar,
Cannot wake them as they sleep in Rotten Row.
They swing slowly round the compass,
Day by day, and year by year,
As they turn to stem the soft tide’s ebb and flow.
And the lowly seabirds calling
Is the only sound they hear,
And the lapping of the waves in Rotten Row.
The stormy hearts that manned them,
And the gentle hearts that banned them,
They are done with ban, or blessing, long ago.
And none are left to love them,
Save the wandering clouds above them,
And the grey gulls flying seaward o’er the Row.
M.L.
TAIWA.
SNOIDNINNO
Ik)'Ch
Gy
&
K3>
FOR
LUNGS
VOICE
THROAT
CARRAGEEN
IRISHMOSS
o<?
2,2 x
o q
O' rp
HI O
r» o
Pi
n Ci
TARGE AND
SMALL'BOTTLES
M
“NEW RIVAL 9 *
Loaded Shotgun Cartridge*)
Good powder and shot, carefully and
scientifically loaded in the best of cases*
make Winchester “New Rival” Black
Powder Shotgun Cartridges the most re-
; liable and satisfactory on the market.
! A trial will convince you of their super-
iority. Be sure and get the Winchester
“New Rival” brand next time you buy*
CIIQOT THEM AND SHOOT Vr"SLU
3 A- 3 .
r :3
.. 4. 3 f W.
‘. ' 3!," “3‘ V‘ji' '
ﬂirt 3‘; 3
_ . -. 1;. .. a
H. a 35*;_.,;:::<n:_jl}_ii_ .).
WATERPROOF
HORSE $ COW RUGS
Ruff ycur Animals with ABERDEEN (Reg.) ROCS'*
You will make Money
and save Feed by using
Our Ruga.
Universally Used.
The ‘ABERDEEN’ Brand.
ASK YOUR STOREKEEPER, OR WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLETS ON “RUGGING STOCK,” TO
SMITH, COPELAND and CO.,
210 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Waterproof Tarpaulins and Tents a Speciality.
mt“
I . 33-: ~ ,
W .4 Win
9?}? 1 '
\e‘; , _-
“32' F
\ .mzﬁ'i‘k‘,% 1"!“
up ""'“' . \g " .
‘ -,.._:“‘_‘1."‘\,
T. ’9',» £53,115 CU
" 3/} f2?) 1’
...’ ’
S
Oe.
s
<7
(d
e
Betrothed f
THEN COME HERE FOR THE RING.
I have many Beautiful Engagement Rings,
Sparkling with Purity.
Prices are as low as perfect Gems can
be sold for.
HERB ARB A FEW ILLCTSTBATIONS.
Send'for my Catalogue and Size Card for the finger.
4' _,_, :1 .“r‘
“'W-!
\S,“ “s; @1552“ r
31.10% 1 14'
Extra fine, 5 large Dia-
monds, Half Hoop Ring,
£l2 12s. to £2O.
w“
18ct., large Diamond in
centre, Babies or Sapphires,
70/-
M
Three Diamonds, Eubies
or Sapphires, 65/-
M
Half Hoop Diamond Ring,
5 white stones, £5.
AND AT IPSWICH AND TOOWOOMBA.


Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
pent, of the loan durin”' any year, without notice or payment of any fne.
Directors—Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winciicombe, Esq., M.L. A.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teecr, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE §7 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
MAKES tin SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
0
S*
&
Rcy
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
T**n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/” & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
I
There’s SECURITY in
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the
Be Sure they are
fi
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency 00.
Ltd.
SYDNE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of EH EPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendeied
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
M
Works : Birmingham, England.
These series
of Pens neither
scratch nor spurt
[They glide over
[the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
FREE TO MEN UNTIL CUBjﬂ.
7
fiHim/iii" I'* 1 '*
Vx
I
mu'"'
DR. AUSTIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
Is sold on this Basis to Men and
Women everywhere : Not to he
paid for until the Cure is Complete.
The Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only remedy in the
world which can be sold on such a plan. It is the only
never-failing cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back
and Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder and Stomach
Troubles ; in fact, all Chronic Diseases of Men and
Women. It cures after all other remedies have failed.
Why? Because it restores nerve life, animal vitality,
warmth and vigor to all the weakened parts.
Drugs only Stimulate, Dr. Austin s
Electric Belt gives Lasting Strength.
Its Cures are Permanent.
pay whbkt CURED.
You pay only when cured, if you can offer reasonable security. Failure to cure costs you nothing. _ The
Dr. Austin Belt is warranted on a bond of £lOOO to give a stronger current, last longer, and to cure quicker
than any other electric body appliance made. We make no charge for advice, written or personal.
Free Book. Cn ”
The Dr* Austin Improved Electric Belt Co*, P^ 1 - *■:
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
New Zealand Branch: 19 PRINCES STREET, DUNEDIN.
GRAMﬂPHONE RE-
TAMAGNO
THE GREATEST OF LIVING- TENONS, has not yet visited Australia, and the only chance for the time being of hearing
him is to go to Europe or buy a
TAMAGNO GRAMOPHONE RECORD.
They are ONE POUND (£1) each
which is a tali price, but they are well worth the money.
ITALIAN TENOR
TROVATORE (C. VERDI)
Di Quella Pira
COMM. FRANCESCO TAMAGNO
Milano
GO 52678.
FRENCH TENOR
HERODIADE (MASSENET)
Quand nos jours s’eteindront oomme
une Chaste Flamme
COMM. FRANCESCO TAMAGNO
Milano.
GC 52G84.
GUQLIELIV10 TELL (ROSSINI)
CORRIYM CORRIAMO
COMM. FRANCESCO TAMAGNO
Milano
GC 52633.
ITALIAN
TENOR
OTELLO (G. VERDI)
Ora e per sempre adpio sante memorie
COMM. FRANCESCO TAMAGNO
Milano
GC 52675.
ITALIAN
TENOR
OTELLO (G. VERDI)
Morte d’Otello
COMM. FRANCESCO TAMAGNO
Milano
GC 52G74.
THE NEW LIST (ILLUSTRATED) AND RECORD CATALOGUE IS NOW READY AND COHPRISES A RANGE OF 15 MACHINES,
FROM 10s. TO 10s.
Wholesale Agents
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs, S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-st., Adelaide
Westralia
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
Queensland
HEINDOB.EE BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
in Other States:
Tasmania—
WERTHEIMER & PEERIE, Collins-street, Hobart.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
W. MACLEAN & CO., 37 Crawford-street, Dunedin.
T. HOLTON, The Talkeries, Willis-street, Wellington.
Retail Agents in ail Towns
throughout the States. . .
Wholesale Depot for Australasia.
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Eight Years’ Dyspepsia
A LONG PERIOD OF SUFFERING.
A WELCOME FRIEND IN TIME OF NEED,
The Case of IVJrs. S. BRO./if
(by our reporter.)
If you are imbued with any desire to grin
an insight into the methods adouted by
people whose efforts a 'e attended vvitli suc-
cess, you cannot do better than read the
following narrative, which was related by
Mrs. Selina ISrown, of No. 5 Little Edivard-
sireet, Pyrmont.
“ One day,” said Mrs. Brown, “ as I was
talking to a young girl at the front door, a
strange and overpowering sensation came
over me, which caused me to have a fit, and
I was taken indoors and pub to bed, where
I was lying unconscious for three days. A
doctor was called in, but he said that he
could not account for the sudden turn I
had taken. He prescribed some medicine,
which did not have ativ beneficial eject,
as three weeks later I took another fit in my
sleep, after which I was so feeble that I had
to keep to my bed for sever d days, and
again the doctor was brought to my bed-
side.”
“Previous to taking the fits were you in
good health ? ” asked the reporter.
“ I was not at all well, as you may gather
from the fact that for eight years I sufi’’ red
from indigestion,” answered Mrs. Brown.
“For a long time I seemed as if I had no
use in my body to work at all. I felt
languid and depressed in spirits, and did
not care whether I lived or died ; neither
could I sleep well. It was a perfect misery
for me to go to bed, as my mind was so un-
settled that I felt as if I wanted to walk
about all night. Just as Ith light I was
falling asleep I commenced to think about
some troublesome subject which generally
occupied my mind till morning, and when I
got up I was too exhausted to do anything,
and with a taste in my mouth that made
everything seem bitter. The on y sleep I
got was always accompanied by dreadful
dreams, so that I never got ,ry proper re t.
The sense of hunger was a sii anger to me
entirely, but in spite of that I took a little
food occasionally, or else I should have
starved.”
“ Did the food do you any good ? ”
“ I am sure it did not do mo much good,
if any, for I was continually getting weaker
and thinner, and the worst of it w< s that
eating always gave me such awful pains in
the stomach, where windy spasms made me
feel as if I wanted to tear my clothes off, no
ihatter how loose they were. A heaviness
in my chest also troubled me greatly, or as
each breath was drawn a smothering sensa-
tion came over me, and at the same time I
suffered acutely from pains under my
shoulder-blades and about my back. Every-
thing possible seemed to go against me at
once, as I was often incapacitated from
going about the home owing to my feet
swelling and my limbs aching, across the
loins especially. Unless I was very careful
and slow in my movements I became so
giddy that I could not stand, while extreme
nervousness was another torture I wis
afraid to move in the dark lest something
would happen to me, and if anythi g gave
me the least excitement my nerves shook to
such an extent that the vibration of my
limbs was quite visible. Little did I think
that something even worse than these ail-
ments was in store for me, but my experi-
ence goes to show how a person’s constitu-
tion is gradually wrecked, and what fright-
ful results an likely to follow. After my
sudden seizures I was in a more hoj eless
state than ever. My head pains were so
bad that I could not bear anybody to speak
to me, and any food that I took was always
vomited. The medicines and powders which
w<re eriven to me were of no avail, and at
length I crawled out of bed and went to
another doctor, who told me I ought to go
to a hospital. Having three young children
I did not like doing so, and instead of going
to a hospital I came home ”
“ Were you wise in going against the
doctor’s advice?”
“It turned out to be the best tiling I
could have possibly done, as a neighbour
shortly afterwards came in to see me for the
pu pose of reading a cure performed by
Clements Tonic. When she had finished
the story she exclaimed : ‘That is just how
you are. Why don’t you try it?’ I said,
‘I believe I will.’ When my husband
came home he thought I was going
to the hospital, but I said, ‘ I’m not
g ing. Bring me home a bottle of
Clements Tonic, and I will try it.’ On
my word of honor, I felt a slight im-
provement when I had drank only half a
bottle. Just imagine my delight after the
way I had been di app ‘inted with all other
medicines, especially as I had long since
thong t that I was doomed to die, because
I could not get relief. But Clements Tonic
soon eased the terrific pains in my head
(which extended right down my neck), and
when, in a few days, they were gone alto-
gether I could get about a little, for I also
felt, more vigorous than I had I een for a long
time. The first good night’s rest I had had
for many a month was obtained through the
comforting influences of Clements Tonic, and
when this grand experience had been re-
peated several nights in succession I felt
cpiite new, for I was happy in the belief
t' at I m ght yet recover m healt-h. Jlverv
tissue in in v bodv seemed to be strengthened
by the wonderful med cine I was taking,
and for sharpening mv appetite it was just
the t ing. Before long 1 sat down to in /
meals like everybody else in the house, and
I could always take a fair share of whatever
was placed on the table. The neighbours
were intensely surpr red to seO me up and
about once more, as they had entertained
little hope of ever see ng me well aga n. I
had no trouble in Keeping my food down,
and every day I found grea or re! of from
t e s\ mptoms of indigest on. The pa ns
finally left mv stomach and shoulders, and
I could breathe w thout gasping as I used
to. for the oppression had disappeared from
my chest, an l with returning strength my
limbs aoqu red freedom from all aches.
When I was taking my doctor’s medic.nes 1
had no dos're for anything, blit Clements
Tonic gave me a 1 ght-hearted inclination to
see ever* thing. By its continued use I
forgot vvliat nervousness was, as I knew no
fear, and my nerves were as steady as a
rock. I was never a stout woman, \et my
diseases had dragged me down considerably,
hut C ements Tonic was my sole medicine
till my lost weight was regained, and, re-
markable as it may seem, that is all f
required, for ; I was then quite cured of
everything. None of my former ailments
were left behind by Clements Tonic, and I
am only speaking the truth when I say that
'my life was savud by that medicine. If you
li e you can puhlsli my story in any way
you deem fit, as itmay alleviate the sufferings
of many more.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION
I; Semna Brown, of 5 Little Ed ward-street,
Pyrmont, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folCs, and
consecutive v numbered from one to four, and that
it contains and is a true an t faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic: and. also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any way
my statem i ts—which I give voluntarily, with-,
ou receivi g any payment; and I make this solemn
d'-elnation conscientiously believing tho same to bn
true, and by vir.ue of the provisions of the Oaihs
Act, 1900.
&
Subscribed and declared at Pyrin- nt, t his
iewh day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
JOS. McDOUGALL, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., L'mited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Hulk and JBotble are universally acknowledged
lO DEFY COMEFEXITXOJXT.
WINES The Best Brands Only >f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTUKERS OF MUSE HAL WATERS, CORDIALS, ke.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Second'
Edition.
BUSH MM and BUGGANiEH
Harry Moran b
His Ventures
and Veises.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
Y By FRANK RENAR. \f Awards, Da-Ho? & Co., Sydney
CURE
your
,COUG
WITH
TRADE
HARK
Lpf all Chemisrs&Stores^
,Be sureyou
Sh^wiltiabovarradeMark
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion, Biliousness
and Acidity.
Allays feverish conditions arising from
the vaccination and teething of infants.
Ask for
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
And Refuse substitutes.
I’ll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
QapiHarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasta or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOCB AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.s •W. Barber’s Supply
House, 654- GEORGE STRsET, SYDNEY.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WIIAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great Engnsu Oure lor UOCJT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during’ their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Si rand, London, and sold at is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
RUPTURE
FREE CURE.
Wonderful Home Treatment that Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. 9. liice (Dept. 1317), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
Street, Dondon, E. 0.. has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
au hour's loss of tme from the day sw< rk. To
avoid ail questions of doubt, he
sends free to every sufferer a
free trial of his method, and
there can be no earthly reason
why an' one. rich or poor, s-hould
not avail themselves of this
generous offer. As an instance
of this remarkable method,
the cure of Mr. J. J. Hogan,
Cobar, N.S.W., is well worth
noticing. He was cured at the
age of 70 j ears, aft' r suffering
10 years. He made au affidavit
to this effect, of his own free
will, before two J.P’s.
Mr. A. Docherty.
Mr. J. Knbank, a farmer of Yarloop, Western
Australia, was cured after suffering 48 years Horn
a scrotal rupture. Mrs. F. Medley, 177, !■ turb
Street, Ballarat, Victoria, Australia, yvas cured
after suffering 5 years. Mr. A. Doc ! erty. 23, V\ ar-
wick Street, Birkenhead, Ch-shiie, England, was
cured of an irreducible scrotal rupt'ue— one of tho
worst kinds ki own. No treatment he had used
would enable him to return the rupture to its
proper place. He tried the method of Dr. Rice,
yvhich not only reduced the rupture, but also
effected its comp ete cure, and he is now as sound
as a bell. A full description and sample of this
remarkable method rf cure win be gladlv sent
upon application. It has cured thousands eDo not
hesitate to give it a trial. Wr’teatonce —to-day.
Don’t delay in a matter of such importance.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeepers
of N.S.W.
Directions for Use. —Throw .the Carbide down the tube;
the Machine does the rest.
1
tohn/MB
Reware of Infringers of our Patents
In spite of the fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than is
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. ISO.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Henry Skinner,
CJarendon-st., South Melbourne,
t telephone No. 10hZ .^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
M ARQUEES, TENTS anti DANCINS FLOORS
of various sixes supplied.
Do You Want a New Suit ?
For £2 we will forward Post Free to any part
of Australia one of our highly finished
Ready-Made
“BULLETIN” SUITS.
This Suit is made of Pure Wool Serge, Indigo
Dye, guaranteed to keep its colour, is Tailor Cut
and Finished, has Padded and Quilted Shoulders,
and is certain to give every satisfaction.
Prico List of other goods on application.
Address:—
T„ C. BEIRNE & CO.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
JSkMJk Engineman’s Master Key
- - •
Steam Power, Eiectrlcily, 2nd. Ed., 1904.
All Subjects relating to Examinations for Certificates of
Competency in all the Stales in accordance with latest
Board of Trade and Mining Regulations. 2nd Edition, 1904.
360 Pages over 100 Illustrations, 6/6, posted,
by L. F. It. SCHNABEL, Licensed Engineer Inspector
under the Mines Act in Victoria.
443 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE, also at COLE’S, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Perth, and all Booksellers.
EMAT6NE Plltf fitP. JfCIFAftETTES.
nv#i in
The marvellous remedy for ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS and
Complaints o! the Respiratory Organs. Instant relief and i
rure. Recommended by the entire medical profession. Price \
l/b pec box. Trial oox free irom Cornford & Co. f
6 Coronation House, Lloyds’ Avenue, London,' 1
3
'WrSW
OUR GLADIATOR
ELECTRIC BELT will make a WEAK MAN
STRONG, Cure Rheumatism, Nervous and
Wasting Weakness, Sciatica, Lame Back,
Varicocele, and all Liver, Stomach, Kidney
and Bladder Troubles. Price Lists and
Latest Testimonials post free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE C0 V
63H ELIZABETH-ST., SYDNEY.
ROTHERHAIY|S
ENGLISH WATCHES.
ONO
080O B 0
ffse
%
%
m
/
fesf
sold by all
WHO-CRN SHOW-
•'!s<£
Jewellers.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
M
M
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warrac ted.
Models &2*Wio&s's*G
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Kims,
free VV’he'els, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
\pcrt In Australasia.
[Hotor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres , A ccessories. Sporting Goods &
■Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
■ Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE GOm pept. ss9 b
CHICAGO, U.B.A. and LIVEKPOOI, ENGLAND.
* BRIGHTS DISEASE AND DIABETES.’
FULTON’S COMPOUND— OnIy Known Cure.
Agents—l enjaniin Bros. & Co., Ash-strcct; ON SALE,
A. E. Durno, Pitt-street, Sydney.


unmssv’s
- mm.
The
Genuine
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
SIX
DO’S
DO REMEMBER
. . . OUR ...
“ Giving-up-the-Retail ” Sale.
DO Hurry
along while the Bargains last.
DO Promenade
through our Electro-plate Department.
DO Inspect
our Chinaware Department.
DO Think
of the many little things that want replacing.
DO Get them for next to nothing now the opportunity offers.
REriEMBER!—What we say we do, we do do.
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
2L BEAUTIFUL FABRIC
THE
‘lOUiS* Velveteen.
\AA/V *\ *\*\*\*\*\*\ rt /*
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L“0" , U"l"S ant * * n 110 other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
iri
jp
IT WELL’S
OOTWEAK . .
I T S.
Wear———
Guaranteed.
B. R. MORAN (still on the old premises), 179 c Pitt Street, SYDNBV. |
You do Yourself an Injustice
when you take anything that is offered to you. There are dozens of brands of Cigarettes
going begging —but the discriminating smoker picks out
CameoS
and lets the rest go.
And he’s right; 11 C&IYieoS ” are the best.
, , ~ ' A
I .r"
. A 7..“ .I
- " v J'4r :5‘ 1 ‘ ‘ =3»
l“ 1.10:!” W— .’ - 1:5. J‘lﬁ‘ 4 m -
.‘ ‘.»;:;:’l-l,.‘~,:fv " a” 'y‘./7r1‘_ . n i [h E” _‘
*“jLH 9’ﬁﬁ a i a
, : ‘;A mi ; I} "4 w- 7 '*2§ ‘ ‘ -3
’34? i“ 713' “1‘4le ml 1 ~ 3
3121f???” ,‘AT‘ ‘ r“ ‘9
,Teuulur :I‘ $1.12 W W I ll -' i! .
j—ﬁ’hﬂ’ﬂ 47/1"? % H a _n 3" TI J
’; ..‘..i.';,,,r..$ n: ‘3‘ ,3 V; H; .J : ~ { ...
M , MU J; l. ‘1; rt 1%
2,3 1» ”ﬁ”% VJ? ‘ '_..
:5: 1;, 32-3? - 1
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co-,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only an
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W, W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in tha Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary■
ﬂ ‘3’ ,I'
4’ , i . . r. as = .-:.' v .. "
: ~:.» 4; ‘-
.1” :59 {17942431 3;}! V2!::!'3":71§1‘i‘}'~;;.‘.~.7:3';— ;£;!1T.i‘11.‘v.3=~ 4
954%};9‘331371?2111:?3...!.4!.Jrl!-1|.=~:i'::!‘:?l'32*£43‘:‘:"‘;’?-if‘r~77=
:3; ringing 1:; [4! 45m; 131::le .;!1l =4;- L»;
72".. 4";15‘:_;~.-',~,..~2-‘. 337:. . :‘-'F’;;«’j‘£"- :=:.’: . ’. 1‘7
‘ * "I“ 4‘ ~ fag-4153‘: “d; “ ‘Lf—it :3 453-“ 3““. :‘5‘ '
{'i‘flﬁ’ :1;‘n‘ f.‘f~44‘:.'.;f:yizafﬁgﬁ'i F441-" i l‘ 4" .
-..~,-g.-\‘-. -»,, ---4: A 4; _: :~, 4 .4 .3;. -
7-?3Tl T |.:|:J 4* “Li“ I ‘| rib-1“ “$3
. 4.9.17 2:4 F4111"? " ;-4 1r; 35': -.
\ >/ :; E—V——-:‘ ‘._. J '-- r7 (
5. 3 - A 3 .ELgLIJL. 43,—}: 7:.
1.?“ 7 4."- ' '4‘
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted ouapplica
tion to The Manager.
LIFE BSSURBNCE
IS WASTING . . .
MONEY ......
E. RICH & CO., LIP.,
SYDNEY ai)d BRISBANE.
The man who insures his life does
the right thing, but if lie wants to
live, and wants his family to live
long, healthy lives he must abolish
all chances of disease by having
his walls made damp proof with
BUBEROIP
DAMPCOUR
INSURE YOUR . .
FAMILY against
SICKNESS


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
V01.,25.—N0. 1270.
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 1904.
Price 6d.
ON A LEE SHORE.
SKIPPER SEE: “HERE, I’M FULL UP. WHO WANTS THE TILLER? NOT THAT IT MATTERS A RAP, WE SHALL SOON BE
ON THE ROCKS. TAKE HOLD, WADDELL, IT MIGHT AS WELL BE YOU AS ANYBODY.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia jor the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, Only).
Per Annum ... . ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
!- Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
t 're contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
t too columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Rut we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A nut tours in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson A: Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal;
Solomon and Wilson, 22 Hout Street, Capetown ; H. R.
■ Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co., Rhodesia ;
and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B. C.
Hong Kona.—Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
7%e
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 1904.
JOHN SEE RETIRES.
The See Government in N.S.W., after a curious
life, has come to a somewhat unexpected end.
Originally formed when Mr. Lyne forsook State
politics as practically a continuation of his
Cabinet, it has since lived rather on the sins of its
enemies than on any virtues of its own. Falling
heir to the curious set of intrigues by which Mr.
Lyne had “nobbled” a newspaper that, by all its
traditions, should have been his bitter enemy, the
See Cabinet took a course which was bold to the
point of impudence. It repudiated the Daily
Telegraph and all its arrangements with Mr.
Lyne —though necessarily, as the See Government
was only the Lyne Government with two men
left out and fine new man, its members had had a
big share in. making those arrangements. The
step proved a popular one. The exposure of the
secret negotiations between Mr. Lyne and the
newspaper which had given him such extraor-
dinary support tickled the public fancy, and, on
the mere issue of its antagonism to improper press
domination, the See Government won a general
election handsomely. The pledges made to the
public on that issue were redeemed, and the one
conspicuously useful action of the See Govern-
ment was to put an end to the payment of
huge subsidies out of the public purse to the
proprietors of the morning newspapers. But, that
done, the Government fell into sloth. It had
aroused a great body of public feeling in its favor,
and might have, with that support, made a fine
record. The surrounding circumstances were
favorable. Federation had given to the N.S.W. >
politician a clean slate on the fiscal question, a
vastly greater revenue, and an opportunity to
display a capacity to adapt affairs to new condi-
tions. No greater opportunity could be imagined
than that which; faced J ohn See. He had put an
end to the noisome domination of the press, and
had found that the public was with him on that
point. He might have put an end to the financial
dishonesty apd incapacity of iris predecessors, and
used the great revenue increment which Federa r
tion to set up, with a minimum of incon-
venience to existing interests, an era of honesty in
public finance. But he had not the courage nor
the knowledge. With his one bold campaign
against the . newspapers his capacity was ex-
hausted, and the See drift began.
.** * *
That drift has lasted so long, has been carried so
far, as to become in some of its phases a tragedy,
in others a farce. The tragedy was in the wild,
reckless spattering about of money—tax money
and borrowed money—which finally brought
N.S.W. up to the edge of financial disaster. The
“man about town,” with no work to do, but
money in his pocket, or means to get at
the money from other people’s pockets, be-
comes naturally a spendthrift. Idleness breeds
extravagance. To an extent the same principle
applies to Governments. The See Cabinet was
doing nothing, so it had to be always spending
something, until OwE’SuLLiVAN-ism came to its
natural end with the practical stoppage of the
State’s credit. When the tragical aspect of the
political situation which the wild waste of money
represented could be forgotten, the broad humor of
the See administration always obtruded. Mr. See
was personally an honest man ; in his private busi-
ness a capable man ; always a welbmeaning man-
But in politics he simply did not know, and his
colleagues were not able to help him. Wise, by
ability the natural leader of the party which had its
original being in opposition to REiD-ism and all
the squalid politics that REiD-ism meant, was in
the Upper House, to which he had voluntarily
banished himself in order to pass through the
Arbitration Act; and a politician in the Upper
House is a politician in the tomb. Ckick, the
other strong personality of the Cabinet, was pre-
vented by many circumstances from exercising the
extent of influence which his ability warranted.
The other Ministers had as much or as little idea
of government as See himself. As the months
passed the drift of the helpless, water-logged
Government continued, until, finally, on what
proved to be the last day of the last session of the
current Parliament, the House was counted out
amidst a storm of excited language, and this
incident brought to an end in a quite unexampled
but particularly appropriate fashion the Parlia-
mentary life of an inept administration. In recess
the capacity for doing nothing was still displayed.
The Government loafed around town shouting a
bridge here, a road there and a park elsewhere
whilst it could get its 1.0. U. cashed ; when it had
no further funds it loafed around sullenly and
blamed the other fellow for its impecuniosity.
* * * *
But the fit and proper end has not come. The
See Government should have drifted on from the
recess to the dissolution like a bit of wreckage, and
have been cast up on a lee shore next month,
cursing violently and wondering what it had done
to deserve such a fate. That is the climax that
would have been “in the picture.” But
private misfortunes brought another end. Mr.
See’s health broke down : he was always, as we
have said, a well-meaning man, and the fact that
the newspapers, which he had once defied so
dramatically and successfully, were now able to
turn the tables on him got on his nerves. He
was conscious of the drift and of the wickedness
of it, but not conscious of any means to end it.
He was like a victim in the bull-ring, tormented
by inferior but agile enemies, dimly conscious
that there was a way out but not knowing
whither. Under the strain his health broke
down. Then a domestic bereavement dealt
him another blow; and, with some reluctance,
John See sets down the burden of public life. He
and his Ministry had drifted into an absolutely
hopeless position. Nevertheless, See would not
have funked the struggle of a general election ;
he would have fought gamely and grittily. But
the doctors said that he must not fight at all,
and he has to leave the Ministry to drift 'on
without him. That means that it will drift as
several pieces of wreckage instead of one —and
there was not enough of it in all to make a decent
patch of jetsam.
* * * *
Mr. Waddell is to be the next Premier —at
least, so it was arranged when The Bulletin went
to press. Mr. See found not the least of his
troubles in nominating his successor. Mr. Wise
was the one man whom commanding ability
suggested as leader, but Mr. Wise had
not strengthened his position with the Cabinet
(however much he had with the people) by
infusing some vitality into the political position
during his term as Acting-Premier; his local
government and financial reform views were not
shared by other Ministers ; and probably he him-
self was not disposed to push forward his claims.
At any rate he was not “sent for.” Had Mr. Wise
been given the commission to do so he might have
formed an administration and won at the general
elections on a programme of honesty and local
government: but that administration would have
been something quite different to a continuation
of the See Cabinet. The other personality of the
Cabinet was Mr. Crick : and he at one time was
seriously thought of. Objections were, however,
made, objections which can hardly be called valid,
and he, too, was passed over. Mr. Waddell, it
is fairly certain, will pursue the See policy of
drift, with as much, or as little, of the See follow-
ing as is willing to give allegiance to him. That
there will be secessions is practically certain. That
there will be a colorless and neutral programme,
something of the Carruthers kind, is also prac-
tically certain. But all that is immaterial. The
new Ministry will go to the country only to be
slaughtered. The opportunity, however, is still
to the hand of a strong man to come forward and
lead an Honest Party. There are already 22
members of the present Parliament pledged to
honesty—a good nucleus for a party. With
a strong leader, whether chosen from
among the present membership or from re-
cruits yet to come, those 22 would certainly add
greatly to their numbers. And of candidates
offering themselves for election there are several
pledged to the same policy. So in the next
Parliament there will be assuredly a sec-
tion pledged absolutely to put an end to the
borrowing policy. With a little courage on the
part of men with the capacity to lead, that section
may easily become a majority, and then the names
of See, Carruthers, Waddell, and Owe’Sulli-
van, and all the other vague, indefinite drifters
will be smudged off the slate. There is really only
one issue before the electors, and only one party
can hold office honorably—a party of Financial
Reform.
TITLES.
Not the least of the claims to respect which the
Watson Ministry can put forward is that it has
not a “ title ” in its whole composition, nor, so far
as can be judged, an aspiration for a title. That
is a proof not only of Radical views, but of
common-sense. Among peoples which have
emerged from the barbarisms of the feudal epoch
into the full light of civilisation, titles have long
since been either abolished or have fallen into
general disrepute. In England they are still pre-
served, but only for the impressing of the vulgar
and the purchase of those whose ability to gauge
what is distinction does not equal their ambition.
By the intellectual leaders they are despised, by
even the acute politicians they are avoided. Of
the men of this and last century, those foremost
in the public eye had no traffic with ‘ ‘ Sir ” or
“Lord” prefixes— Gladstone, Darwin, Mere-
dith, Spencer, Huxley, Morley, lived as
“Misters”; even Chamberlain and Balfour
have the sense to refuse to become earls or
baronets or knights. When there is such a marked
unanimity of opinion among the acknowledged
leaders of thought in a nation which eagerly
flourishes a brand of “ ennoblement ” before every
individual that emerges from the common herd—
whether by accumulating a fortune out of beer,
lending money to a prince, dispensing civic hospi-
tality to a royal personage, or even performing
some work really worthy—that a title is a thing to
be shunned, it is a clear enough indication that
the modern civilised mind has got beyond the
stage at which it can recognise the value of bear-
ing somebody’s more or less ignorant hall-mark of
distinction. And that is the actual truth. The
educated man of to-day recognises that the “ title ”
in almost all cases is utterly misleading in so far as
it indicates the bearer’s claim to respect; that the
usual “Duke” is no longer the wary or daring
leader of an army, but a commonplace per-
son who couldn’t lead even a brass band into
action; that the average “Lord” is not a man
whose worth inspires his fellow-men with respect,
but that he is sometimes a paltry blackguard, most
often a painfully-ordinary person, in almost all
cases in no respect lordly; that the frequent
“Knight” is not, in any sense of the word,
knightly and would inspire no dame in distress
with an atom of confidence (unless the sort
of dame*who wishes a kind gentleman to lend her
£lO, repayable in weekly instalments). Titles
were justifiable enough, perhaps indeed necessary,
in uncivilised times. The first savage, who stuck
a red feather in his hair as a sign by which all might
know that his club had been proved mighty in the
fight, was fulfilling a great natural law guarding
the evolution of the species. For by that assump-
tion of a “ title ” he let it be known that he was a
man of prowess and entitled to the best cut off
the eohippus, and thus saved the lives of many
who would otherwise have rashly disputed his
claim. With the slow development of human
thought, through the various stages of Feudalism,
titles kept some of their value. But they are now
absurd anachronisms. They mean nothing.
They are bestowed chiefly on the least worthy.
They are despised by the most worthy. It is true
that an occasional good man accepts, or even
seeks, a title. When that is so, it is merely a
proof that he is less good than he might be—that
there is a flaw in his character somewhere. He
may be a distinguished statesman, writer, lawyer,
organiser of industry, but if he seeks a title
it is proof that he at least is either inordinately
vain or cowardly. A strong and sensible man
is content to let his work speak for him. If his
work is good it will give him a title to greatness.
Sometimes, however, a man does good work, but
is fearful that it will not be appreciated, feels that
there is a danger of his not being accepted at
his true worth, and so such a one takes a
certificate from an entirely incompetent judge
to tell the world that he really is distin-
guished. Sometimes, again, with real great-
ness, a man will mix some childish weakness,
some atavistic trait of the cave man (one of the most
famous living scientists amuses his leisure by
believing in spooks), and this will lead him to
value a title out of mere infantile delight in its
sound and the gaudy trappings which go with it.
But these instances are rare. Restricting the
scope of inquiry to the British race, it may be set
down as the rule that the really distinguished men
do not accept titles, that they are content to let
their work speak for them and find that it does so
speak. Titles then resolve themselves into the
means for distinguishing the men who are not
great, but who wish to appear so.
* * * *
What an offence against common-sense and
human reason the whole title business represents
is shown by nothing more clearly than the attrac-
tion which a title, no matter how acquired, has
for the weaklings, the obviously contemptible
people of the earth. The small suburban mayor
who revels in being called “ His Worship,” and
who looks forward to no greater earthly reward
than that some small royal personage shall come
to his corporation hall one day, for some purpose
or other, and give him a real permanent title; the
American plantation nigger who has his brat
christened in baptism as “Major” or “Lord,” so
that it can go through life with a quite legitimate
claim to a name pretending to denote rank ; the
rabbit-brained clerk or mechanic who forms a
lodge of the Gladsome Elks order and makes it a
rule that every member is to be “ Sir ” So-and-So,
and every member’s wife “Lady” Such-and-Such,
and every member’s kid “ The Honorable ” This-
or-That. Such are the people to whom titles have
been legitimately and truly bequeathed by the ad-
vance of civilisation—the very inferior persons of
the community, who can get a sort of escape from
their own sense of inferiority by raiding the
alphabet and stealing for themselves sonorous
designations. They may be left to play with their
glass beads, deserving no reproach but pity. But
it is truly wonderful that some men of intelligence,
men who, by their own efforts, are capable of
making a small mark on the shores of time, should
abase themselves to the level of the suburban
Bumble, the garish nigger, and the mentally-weak
cheesemonger. Such men are to be found still.
They are few, and becoming rarer. It is some-
thing of a reproach to Australia that the propor-
tion of them here among men of ability is,
seemingly, greater than in other countries. In
England it is the exception, and not the rule, for
a man of real note to accept a title. In Australia
it has been the rule for the most prominent men
to accept or seek baubles. Of course, few of them
have any claim to actual greatness, so that the
reflection on the national common-sense is not as
serious as it seems. When Australia has pro-
duced more great men it will be possible to judge
more accurately ; but still the conclusion is forced
upon the inquirer that the K.C.M.G.— taking it
as the type of all the varieties of titular folly—is
so much prized in this Commonwealth as to throw
a deep shadow on our public life.
* * *
Especially is the tolerance of titular distinctions
in Australia to be deplored, for in this country
they represent not only an offence against common
sense and a proof of folly, but also a dangerous
enemy to national patriotism. The titles scattered
in Australia are not home-created, but come from
an outside source, from a Power with which Aus-
tralian interests are often at variance. The gener-
ally friendly and close relations between Britain
and Australia are necessarily accompanied by
divers little negotiations and bargains and settle-
ments. Just as two friends with large mutual in-
terests and a large joint estate, but with separate
individual interests, find that hundreds of little
points have to be settled from time to time, so
with Britain and Australia. But, owing to the
title evil, the negotiators on the Australian side
are frequently “bought over”—not, perhaps, con-
sciously —so that in negotiating they favor
the English and not the Australian side.
The K.C.M.G., in fact, acts as a bribing
agency. It is probably neither given nor accepted
with any direct recognition of the fact, but, never-
theless, is in very many cases a bribe and nothing
else. When this fact comes to reinforce the argu-
ments which have made thinkers in all civi-
lised communities condemn titles as absurd, the
K.C.M.G. is shown to be, so far as Australia is
concerned, both foolish and mischievous. The
present Ministry, which has no titles and wishes
no titles for itself, may be the fore-runner of a
Ministry Avhich will declare that no Australian
citizen shall accept them.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Anti-Borrowing Party in N.S.W.
The Bulletin is still endeavoring to collect the
names of N.S.W. politicians and candidates who
are willing to get out of the rut of ordinariness
and do something vigorous and unusual at the
coming election. It desires to find a party which
is willing to subscribe to three solid articles of
faith, as follows :
(1) No more borrowing, except for renewal purposes.
(2) The establishment of a sinking-fund, even if it be a
small one, for the reduction of the existing debt.
(3) The setting aside of an adequate sum out of revenue
for the construction of new public works.
In making these suggestions, it isn’t proposed that
N.S.W. should do anything unusual —anything
that a Belgian isn’t capable of, and that a Hol-
lander doesn’t do every day of his life without
turning a hair. All that is proposed is that the
ordinary expenses of N.S.W. Government should
be oaid out of taxation and receipts from public
woife; and any number of countries do that
much, and carry large military and naval burdens
to boot. That would leave the land revenue of
£1,800,000 a year available as a remedy for the
loan disease —say at the rate ,of £l,si 0,000 for
public works and £300,000 for sinking fund. No
community outside Australia is blessed with any-
thing dimly resembling N.S.W.’s extraordinary
luck in the way of land revenue —the N.S.W. land
receipts of £1 ss. Bd. per inhabitant represent
more than the entire revenue of many countries.
At the same time, it is a diminishing revenue. A
time will probably come when N.S.W. will be very
glad indeed if its land revenue is 2s. 6d. per in-
habitant per annum. The State will have to solve,
some day, the problem of paying the ordinary costs
of government without, or almost without, this
aid ; if it doesn’t tackle the problem now when the
State’s public debt is about £83,000,000, it may
have to do it when the burden is £163,000,000.
Therefore, it is well to face the difficulty, large as
it is, before it grows any larger. If anyone claims
that it is impossible now to pay the ordinary costs
of government (including the interest on the public
debt) without using land receipts as ordinary
revenue, then that same person must look forward
to public bankruptcy in the future, when the land
revenue has faded away and the interest bill has
crept up. The Bulletin has a profound suspi-
cion that a large number of N.S.W. borrowing
politicians do look forward to public bankruptcy
some day as the easiest way out; it isn’t a nice
way, but it saves the trouble of being honest.
Meanwhile The Bulletin has gathered a few
adherents to the anti-loan policy, and their names
follow
E. Richards, M.L.A. J. F. Barnes, M.L.A.
William Affleck, M.L.A. J. B. Nicholson, M.L.A.
E. O. V. Broughton, M.L.A. F. A. Byrne, M.L.A.
P. J. Clara, M.L.A. C. W. Oakes, M.L.A.
E. M. Clarke, M.L.A. Thomas Rose, M.L.A.
John J. Cohen, M.L.A. Dr. Ross, M.L.A.
J. R. Dacey, M.L.A. P. H. Sullivan, M.L.A.
J. C. L. FirzrATßicK, M.L.A. Edward Terry, M.L.A.
Eden George, M.L.A. W. N. Willis, M.L.A.
John Gillies, M.L.A. R. Atkinson Price, M.L.A.
John Hurley, M.L.A. Wilfred Blackett
Andrew Kelly, M.L.A. John D. Fitzgerald
In addition eight M.’sL.A. have expressed their
concurrence with certain slight reservations.
Already it begins to appear that there are a good
many candidates for whom a respectable citizen
can honestly cast his vote at the coming election,
and if only the right kind of leader would appear
to consolidate these scattered units the anti-
borrowing party might easily sweep the polls and
divide the next Assembly into the I O U party
and the C.O.D. party. There isn’t much else to
divide upon. Between borrower See and bor-
rower Carruthers there isn’t even the difference
between tweedledum and tweedledee. One is
Tweedle-C., and the other is Tweedle-SEE, which
is no more than a variation in spelling.
♦
The Hungry Crowd in Queensland.
The Philp party in Queensland has shown charac-
teristic indecency in its haste to get back the
political patronage which it exercised so long
and so disastrously. It makes the Morgan
Government’s administration, in recess, the basis
of the attack which is still in progress as The
Bulletin goes to press. If there were no serious
danger in it, a complaint on such grounds by such
a party could only be regarded as a joke ; for no
more incapable or politically dishonest adminis-
trators than Philp’s last lot have been seen in
Australia for many a day. Philp himself is so
utterly discredited (even some of his own former
Ministers have been attacking him lately) that
Cribb, an unknown private member, a kinsman of
his ex-Treasurer, the other Cribb, was put up to fire
the adverse motion. What the greater Cribb did—
the Cribb in whose interests the smaller Cribb
presents this motion —was fairly typical of what
the whole Philp Ministry did. Last year he was
responsible for a deficit of £191,341; the year before
that, for one of £431,939. This year, if Kidston
had not come to the rescue, the same Adminis-
tration would have landed the State into another
shortage of at least £150,000. Backed by Philp,
this hopelessly incapable Cribb, whose methods
were the mock of financial men of Brisbane, pooh-
poohed Australian Treasurer Turner’s estimates
at the beginning of the year, and fatuously made
estimates of his own, upon which the Philp Govern-
ment planned the State expenditure. Yet now,
when the financial year is almost finished, it is
found that even Turner’s estimate was too high,
and that Cribb’s, which was £104,000 more,
was absurd. Fortunately Kidston accepted Tur-
ner’s figures after inquiry, the expenditure was
cut down accordingly, and the deficit will probably
be no more than £70,000 —close upon £lOO,OOO less
than it would have been if the State had allowed
Philp and . Cribb to work out their folly. Yet
these are the men who complain of the administra-
tive unfitness of Kidston and his colleagues. As
a matter of fact, the Morgan Government has
never had a fair chance yet to show what it could
do in a constructive way ; its time has been almost
wholly taken up in getting the ship off the rocks on
which it was bumping —bumping so heavily that
Cohen refused to advance any more upon it :
Philp in the last days of his Ministry asked for a
loan of three-quarters of a million, and all that
Cohen would advance, at an excessive rate, was
about £200,000. It was the most absolute failure m
recent loan transactions — Bull-Cohen’s emphatic
vote of no-confidence in Philp and Cribb and co.
And the ex-Premier promises to do no better in
the future. So utterly lacking is he in statesman-
ship—so deficient even in ordinary business capa-
city and prudence —that he can offer nothing
better by way of policy than the wholesale sacii-
fice of the public lands. That is the first and
chief plank in his platform. The State depends
very largely upon revenue from the rent of lands,
and still, under the Philp party, it has deficits
every year : now Philp proposes to get rid of the
lands, and so cut off that source of revenue. In
short’ he is going to live on his capital. Of course,
in a very few years the inevitable result would be
greater deficits than ever. The Morgan Govern-
ment, on the other hand, puts forward no such
suicidal scheme—no such cowardly plan of saving
the present by sacrificing the future. It is
proceeding, instead, on the simple, straight-
forward system by which George Turner
saved Victoria after the wreck of ’93. It is
Stopping the drift; it is making syndicate and
other debtors of the State understand that debts
to the State must be paid just as much as debts to


private firms ; it is endeavoring to put the sugar
business, on which the Philp Government spent
tens of thousands, on a business-like footing ; it is
economising in the public service; it is wasting
nothing on picnics and frill. And that it is
succeeding the figures show. In the matter of the
drought Queensland and N.S. Wales were in just
the same position. Each has had about the same
recovery. But whereas N.S. Wales will finish this
year with a deficit £30,000 greater than it had last
year, Queensland will probably be £120,000 better
off this year than it was last—thanks to Kidston’s
entire remodelling of the Estimates and the efforts
of the whole Morgan Ministry to make expen-
diture balance with the revenue without in-
flicting special hardships upon anybody. The
Bulletin will not believe that Queensland
seriously entertains the idea of throwing out the
men who have done this much so soon, and who
give such earnest of further excellent work for
the State. No charge worth listening to has been
made against them, and it would need to be a
most serious charge indeed, proved up to the hilt,
that would justify a Parliament in handing back
power to the Philp party of ’Drift, Debt, and
Disaster —the party under which the credit and
reputation of the State was brought so low that
Cohen refused to lend it even half-a-million more.
♦
The Predicament of Mr. Eeid.
Mr. Reid has been compelled to postpone from
day to day the salvation of the country from the
curse of the Watson Government by “urgent
private business ”in Sydney. So his newspapers
have announced, with no evident appreciation
of the humor of such an accommodating salva-
tionary zeal on the part of the patriotic
Mr. Reid. But, as a matter of fact, the high
hope of the Tories has not been busy in Sydney ;
he has been merely waiting for his oppor-
tunity. If he were to attempt to dispossess the
Watson Cabinet now, he might or might not suc-
ceed. Failure would destroy his chances of Federal
office in this Parliament; success would be a very
little more happy alternative, for it would leave
him with the Arbitration Bill on his hands, a
measure on which Mr. Watson has an absolute
majority in both the Federal Houses, and on
which he could destroy a Reid Government, just
as he unwillingly destroyed the Deakin adminis-
tration. bo Mr. Reid, being, as he announces,
profoundly convinced that one of the most mis-
chievous of the consequences of Labor Patty
government is this Arbitration measure, intends,
quite naturally, to ensure its passage before he
makes a bid for office. It is a pretty picture,
that of Mr. Reid waiting in ambush until
the Watson Government has polluted the
f or y temple, and then falling on them for
their baggage waggons ; and it must be quite
clear to the meanest understanding that it is only
on the spoils issue that he is fighting. However,
if the game is played as it should be against such
tactics and such an antagonist, Mr. Reid will have
to wait in his ambush a long time. Then he may
get office or he may only get cold. Delays are
dangerous to his cause. At present, Mr. Reid
has a remotely possible chance of defeating the
Government—a chance which depends on Mr.
Deakin remaining plunged in his present ecstatic
dream of self-abnegation ; on Mr. Austin Chap-
man remaining in a mood to defy his con-
stituents, to sacrifice the settlement of the
Federal capital, and to throw up his whole
political career to become a Reidite : on the
Victorian bunch which now follows the Age
being won over to Reid ; and on Mr. Ewing
continuing to cloud with the sophisms of a
mistaken philosophy the real issues at stake.
But those who are now in a dream may awaken.
With them (and the Victorian bunch), Mr.
Reid, at the best, can win a dissolution. With-
out them Mr. Reid will suffer humiliating
defeat. In a week' or two Mr. Deakin may
come out of his dream and recollect that it was
Mr. Reid who, with brazen impudence, herded his
reluctant followers on to the Labor side to destroy
the Deakin administration; and that by support-
ing Mr. Reid now he is only helping the second
step of a conspiracy of which his own
destruction was the main object. Mr. Chapman
may reflect that it is not good enough to throw
away his safe Monaro seat and his political future
to vote for Mr. Reid. Even Mr. Ewing may come
to his senses. The position is not a happy one for
Mr. Reid. By moving to the battle now he can
at the best get a dissolution. By delaying, he
makes his chances every day less and less. For
with every day the Watson Cabinet becomes
firmer in the public esteem, and with every day
the real position and aims of Mr. Reid become
clearer.
« .
What Made Maoriland Prosperous?
The Victorian Employers’ Association, which
lately got such valuable help from N.S.W. Chief
Justice Darley, has applied to the Wellington
(ML.) h armers’ Union, and has received in reply
what is referred to as “ valuable testimony” :
Question : Has the prosperity of New Zealand been due
to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and such legis-
lation ? Answer : Decidedly no.
Question: If not, to what in particular ? Answer:
To the settlers’ industry, favorable English markets, the
shortage caused by Australian drought, and the demand
for produce caused by the South African war.
Ihe farmers and settlers seem to have the idea
that they are the country, and that nobody else
counts—that the prosperity has been due to their
industry and to the high prices which their
produce has commanded. Thanks to the
progressive land laws for which Ballance
and M‘Kenzie were mainly responsible,
the M.L. settler certainly has had a good
deal to do with the country’s prosperity.
Yet, presumably, he was just as indus-
trious 15 or 20 years ago (the common yarn is
that the men of 15 or 20 or more years ago were
more industrious), and, moreover, the price of
nearly all his products was higher; and still the
country wasn’t prosperous. In 1865 wheat was
9s. 7|d. per bushel; from that time down to 1889
it averaged about 4s. lid. In Sydney, in Febru-
ary and March (the months taken by Coghlan as
his basis), it was only three times in those 25 years
under 4s. Since 1890, however, it has only in four
years been above 45., and in 1889-1900-1901 it
averaged 2s. Bid. And still, in spite of these low
figures, Maoriland was prosperous. Therefore the
ni - farmers’ and settlers’ yarn about “favor-
able English markets ” won’t wash ; for the mar-
kets were far more favorable before the prosperity
began than they have been since. “The shortage
caused by the Australian drought ” is an even
more amusing explanation. That drought lasted
just one year; the immediately previous years
yielded larger harvests than Australia ever pre-
viously had. Compare the net Australian export
ol breadstuffs in bushels in two decades :
&“ P ° r K 2,107,136 1899 (Export) 11,581,198
1890 (Export) 8,836,170 1900 „ 13,965,610
» 10,046,298 1901 24,770,592
„ 4,120,538 1902 ~ 11,736,265
Four y ’rs’ Exports 21,501,870 Four y’rs’ Exports 02,053,665
liiv) Australian drought ”as a reason for M.L.
prosperity during the past few years as compared
with former years won’t therefore wash either;
for, on the whole, Australia has been less droughty
than usual lately. As for the war, that didn’t
last long, anyway; and while it was happening
Australia Was in the middle of unusually
good seasons, as shown by the figures just
quoted, and had just the same chances as
M.L. ; and still Australia wasn’t over-
whelmed with prosperity. Moreover, during
the “ Australian drought,” S. Australia had less
drought than usual, and was a good deal closer to
the N.S.W. and Yic. market, and had no import
duty to pay under Federation; and still S. Aus-
tralia isn’t particularly prosperous. S. Australia
has had, in fact, every one of the causes working
in its favor which are alleged to have made M.L.
prosperous; yet, whereas in the 10 years from
1891 to 1902, S. Australia lost 21,542 people by
excess of emigration over immigration, M.L.
gained 39,324 by excess of immigration. In 10
years the gross earnings of the S.A. railways have
increased from £999,707 to £1,076,612, or under
8 per cent. ; those of M.L. have grown from
£1,172,793 to £1,974,038, or 69 per cent. Every
other test gives the same result. With exactly
the same things in its favor as are alleged in
favor of M.L., why hasn’t 8. Australia been as
prosperous as M.L. ? Nobody suggests that the
difference is all due to the Arbitration Act. The
M.L. land settlement scheme has certainly been a
most powerful aid to agricultural prosperity. The
moderately stiff land tax and the absentee sur-tax
have helped. The socialistic help given to the
produce-exporter has been another factor. The
fairly-high Protective duties have, moreover, built
up other industries, so that, whereas there were
25,633 M.L. factory employees in 1891 there were
48,718 employees in 1901—a feature in M.L.’s pro-
sperity which the Farmers’ and Settlers’ Union
apparently never heard of. Yet the nearly-
doubling of the manufacturing population, under
the Arbitration system, inside 10 years must have
had a good deal more to do with the permanent
prosperity of the man who supplies it with wheat
and butter than the occurrence of a war for a few
months several thousand miles away.
■
Public and Private Enterprise.
Perth Morning Herald made manager Teece,
of the A.M.P., say some very foolish things when
he was passing through there, the other day :
State banking and State insurance is a pure myth—no
doubt a very pleasant dream, and nothing more. The
State can do nothing as well or as economically as the
private individual. The only instance in the world
where State life insurance has been a success is in New
Zealand, and that is because it is conducted on purely
commercial lines without any interference with poli-
ticians.
Therefore this “pure myth,” when it is worked
on the same lines as private concerns, isn’t any
more myth than they are. Still, the boss of the
private concern nearly always cheerfully argues as
though the public concern must be badly managed.
He doesn’t stop to think that he would manage it
himself if he were offered a few pounds more
wages. The late Mr. Eddy, who in the railway
world was a bigger man than Mr. Teece is in the
insurance .world, was quite willing to quit his
private employ in England to manage the “pure
myth ” in N.S.W. ; and probably for £5OOO a year
Mr. Teece would be willing to manage another
myth himself. In that case, why the myth
shouldn’t be as well managed as the A.M.P. isn’t
clear. As for the remark that “the State can do
nothing as well or as economically as the private
individual,” why a Teece working for a “myth”
should not do as good work as a Teece working
for the A.M.P. isn’t clear either. And even if,
sometimes, the public concern costs more to work,
though there isn’t any reason why it should, the
public still comes out all right because, though the
costs may be more, no profits are sought after, Mr.
leece is, too, about the last man in Australia
who ought to hold up the private-enterprise racket
as against public enterprise, for his society is the
greatest Australian protest against the private-
enterprise and profit-sucking system. It has no
shareholders ; it eliminates the private capitalist;
its profits are for the people who benefit by it;
and its success, including its remarkably low costs,
are wholly due to these facts. The A.M.P. is a
big co-operative concern ; and the bigger it gets
the cheaper it is worked and the more successful it
is. And that simply means that the nearer it gets
to being a socialistic enterprise (for socialistic
enterprise is merely co-operative enterprise joined
in by the whole community), the better and more
successful it is. The A.M.P.’s success, then,
so far from being an argument in favor
of the system of private enterprise and private
capitalism, gives about the hardest knock that
those things have so far received in Australia.
Yet (unless he is shamefully misrepresented)
manager Teece goes on talking about the beauties
and advantages of the thing that he is every day
engaged in breaking up and destroying. If Mr.
Teece is really so infatuated with private enter-
prise and private capitalism, his place is with one
of the old proprietary companies whose business
it is to make as much profit as they can for the
shareholders.
-♦
A Bad Candidate Offers.
The Bulletin has received this letter
Dear Bulletin. —Is there any opening for a Bad Candi-
date in N.S.W. ? I know nothing about politics, but lam
Bad. There are several candidates who seem to know
nothing about politics but who are standing as Good men.
Now, I have not been a very long time in N.S.W., but
presume that it is just the ordinary sort of place as regards
sins and things. If so, there ought to be many more who
are Bad than who are Good, and, on the principles of
majority rule, as the Bad Candidate I should very easily
win. I think I am bad enough for all practical
purposes : am thoroughly healthy, have no liver and no
morals that I know of, and never lie awake at night
weeping over my sins. At times I drink—all sorts of
things: water, tea, beer, whisky (when the man
is a good fellow and we have settled down for a
yarn). I do not go to church because I can see
and hear more Divinity outside. I would not care
to preach to any fellow creature and ask him to be
Good; and the only person I have ever felt inclined to
class as a nasty cuss and a worse sort of animal
than myself was a social purity advocate of
great renown. I think you’ll agree that I am
all a Good Candidate should not be, and that
there should be a chance for me as the Bad man.
If you’ll help me to get a seat, I’ll promise to try and do
the square thing by politics, and not get up to any mean
little Good dodges. If it is necessary to class me up in
some religion or other (I notice some advertised as the
pledged Protestants), put me down as a selected Parsee or
a pledged Pagan, or anything that is quite distinctly
dissociated with the Good cause.—Yours, &c., F.R.
+
Private Enterprise and Public Murder.
The downright wickedness of trusting largely to
“ private enterprise ” charity to run hospitals and
other institutions which are absolutely necessary
to the community instead of providing for them
out of taxation has been demonstrated over and
over again. The Melbourne Queen Victoria
Memorial Infectious Diseases Hospital is the
latest and best lesson. The whole affair is a
shrieking emblem of tirednesss. The “patriotic
feeling” that called the idea into being has been
slumbering in the gorgeous mausoleum of the
estimable Victoria these last three years. Three
fever seasons have come and gone, leaving a long
trail of “ might-haVe-been-saveds ” in their wake,
and all that has been accomplished with the
£20,000 or so, got together at great pressure, is an
empty shell of a building out Fairfield way that,
even when it does hold its house-warming, has one
ward only for the she’s and one for the he’s, and
will only be able to put through one class of infec-
tious disease at a time. For very shame’s sake now,
a few' influential mayors, citizens and others are
trying to electrify some life into the affair and
hustle things up for a start. They propose to
think about ways and means afterwards, and,
after a fashion, they will succeed. So there will
soon be another begging institution added to the
list, borne down by its weight of debt and piti-
fully wailing for support, to eke out an inadequate
official income. And Mrs. Fatman will get up
some more charity balls, bazaars and raffles, and
make house to house collections of pence and
threepennies by way of giving the poor a chance to
assist—anything, rather than that a pound or two
should be added to Mr. Fat’s land-tax payments.
There’s only one remedy for this chronic state of
insolvency and mendicancy, and that is the amal-
gamation of hospitals and charities under Govern-
ment control, with a decent working revenue
guaranteed to each of them out of taxation.
About the Deakin caucus :
They are a queer lot in the Deakin caucus. There is
the Forrest wing-—one, two, perhaps three of them,
though it is risky to count in M‘Coll of Echuca.
There is the Radical wing—a lot of them, most of them
indeed, including the leader. The Forrest wing wants
the Reid Ministry with them in it. The other lot are not
sure that they want a Watson Ministry, but they do want
to keep their various seats. They are not sure whether
they can keep their seats with a Watson Ministry in
existence. They are quite sure they can’t keep them if
Reid is in office. Therefore they beg Deakin not to
amalgamate with Reid or Watson, but to do the
balancing trick in the corner, and to keep
the party together. To which Deakin says: “ Are
you going to vote all together?” But the crowd
look down their noses very thoughtfully. They do
not feel that way at all. They want a leader, especially
one with broad coat-tails to shelter them, but they do
not want to be bound down to vote with him. * The
matter is making Deakin tired. “Do you want to vote
with Reid?” he asks. “No !” is yelled back, with a
faint “ Yes ” from the Forrest side. “Do you want to
vote Watson?” A good ‘Yes,” and as good a “No”
follow this. “Do you want to stay where you are, and
to trust to luck ?” All yell “ Yes” to this. “ Well will
you all vote together until something does turn up?”
Dead silence. ‘ 1 Seems as if we want some coalescing
between ourselves,” says Deakin, and he pronounces the
Benediction.
One of the advantages possessed by the Watson
Ministry is that there is a widespread and growing
feeling—outside the ranks of its direct sym-
pathisers—in favor of its receiving fair play. It is
admitted, even by the foes of the party, that the
Ministry achieved office fairly; and, this being
the ease, any attempt, by underhand means, to
precipitate the Ministry from the Treasury
benches would be warmly resented all over the
Commonwealth. Minister Hughes, whose speech
on the general situation was one of the best of the
lot, emphasised this aspect of the question.
Referring at first to Parliament itself, he said :
The Government at any rate was entitled to fair play,
and there was a sufficient number of members inside the
House prepared to see that they got it.
Following this up next day, Hughes declared
that the country was determined to see that they
got fair play. There is no mistaking the existence
of this feeling, which would operate to the marked
advantage of the Ministerial party should a hostile
motion be carried, and a general election follow.
Mr. Hughes also has his eye on this last aspect of
the position :—-
There was one way of finding out the direct opinion of
the people, and he was not frightened to resort to it.
Why should not Parliament appeal to the country on the
one question ?
The prospect of an appeal to the country would
straighten up the waverers who are just now
sitting uncomfortably on a rail. There are few
constituencies where. the Democratic vote can be
safely flouted ; and in most cases its total loss —
which would follow any unfair or time-serving
vote given against the Watson Ministry—would
seal a member’s doom.
Ip there is one lesson that the Victorian Butter
Commission—so far as it has gone—clearly teaches,
it is the absolute necessity of the extension of the
principle of co-operation in connection both with
the production and the marketing of butter,
cheese and other farm commodities. At present
the bulk of the milk is treated in co-operative fac-
tories, which, of course, return the full proceeds
to the farmer; but there is a tendency to allow
proprietary concerns to crowd out some of the
weaker co-operative companies. Some of the
Melbourne proprietary co’s are very wealthy ; and
in Gippsland and the North-East especially, they
have spent money lavishly in destroying co-opera-
tive companies. This is easily done by paying'
higher prices for milk until the co-operative com-
pany collapses. Then the proprietary has the
farmer in its hands, and by means of low tests
and other methods, can fleece him at its leisure.
To hide the wolf, these people often call them-
selves by deceptive names. With reference to the
marketing of the butter, there is a North-Eastern
Factories Association which has already done
good work, and the prosperous Western District
is now forming a similar association. The farmer
has been a bit bewildered by the shoal of high-
smelling revelations that have already been made,
and the odor has almost stifled him; but it can
surely be taken for granted that, when he recovers,
he will not be quite the same simple Juggins that
the city agents have found him up to the present.
If he is, well, he deserves to be fleeced.
4
“H.” on the state of Victorian politics :
The problem in the new Vic. Parliament is what is
going to happen to the Mackinnon wing. Just now
because most of them were bitterly fought by Labor’
they.are inclined to flap towards Bent, but that is because
they are sore. Later on, as the soreness wears off and the
grossness of Bent grows on them, the wing will flap away
from him. The twelve of them are tough customers, and
hard fighters. Of the 38 BENT-ites, there are fully eight
who do not like Bent’s policy, and a lot more who do not
like Bent himself. In a little time the Opposition—Labor
and Mackinnons— will be found solidifying, but the BENT-
ites are bound to break up simply because Bent is among
them. When a Premier like him gets the lead, he needs
the sheep-like Kyabram majority, which Irvine had in the
last Parliament, to keep it. Most of the sheep went
out this time, men like Shoppee of Ballarat, Martin
of Gralong, Trasiiwortii, Hirscii, Fletcher, Menzies, and
rubbish of that kind were ready to think just as Irvine
thought, and, afterwards, as Bent thought. Of the real
sheeplike Kyabrams, a bare five survived a second appeal
to the electors. This means that Bent has to walk as
circumspectly as a cat over broken bottles, and Bent try-
ing to walk circumspectly is a sight that Victoria has not
seen yet. Bent is fat and scant of breath, and he scolds
like a very drab when in a tight place. He will scold the
new House when squeezed, and, when he scolds, the House
will toss him out on the rubbish-tip, where he feels most
at home. There is no bed of roses for Tommy Bent, as
there was for Irvine. There are a dozen men classed’ as
Ministerialists who know that their electorates shut their
eyes and followed the satyr Premier once, but are not
likely to do so twice. These members are going to pro-
tect themselves, and the first way to do so is to get a
Premier clean in life and speech. Much depends on how
this section of the BENT-ites and the Mackinnons is treated
by the Labor party.
From an article in the Nineteenth Century on
“ Colonial Loyalty ” :
The Englishman suffers from that radically wrong point
of view which apparently is the inevitable result of his
regrettable insularity. The colonies are not loyal to Ena-
land. The feeling throughout the Commonwealth and
Maonland is : first an intense local patriotism for their own
colony or state ; secondly, a growing enthusiasm for the
idea of Empire and a pride in the conception that the
a !Y- a n d the , Commonwealth are part of that old sway ;
and thirdly, a liking for and a reverence for the country
that is still called “ Home.” That is the invariable order
of the colonial s loyalty ; loyalty to his own colony,
loyalty to the Empire, and, lastly, loyalty to England,
Hi the event of a vital difference between the United
Kingdom and one of its colonies, the loyalty towards Eng-
land would not survive five minutes after the first angry
word was spoken. Then the Motherland would have an
opportunity to test the loyalty of its colonials—to them-
selves to each other. And, in a large conflict of opinion
between England and any of her great colonial Govern-
rnents, there is little doubt in the minds of those who know
colonial feehng that the event would be the signal for an
outbreak of sympathy between the colonies, directed
fpy'st, the mother country. For it is well to remember
that the colonies—Canada, the Commonwealth, Maoriland
and the Cape—are bound together by the mighty bond
of a common outlook. The ideas of any ott'e of the
colonies are the ideas of all the colonies, and not the
ideas of the motherland. England belongs to an older
generation ; England has to be repeatedly conjured to
wake up. But the colonies have outgrown her in
political ideals, have set up for themselves and appar-
ently to their own satisfaction a system of government
that is totally foreign to the English mind. And the
conflict between the colonies and the motherland will
arise out of the growing divergence of the colonial and
the English ideal. Consequently in the future, a recal-
citrant colony that defied the authority of the mother
country would expect to find her defiance echoed
throughout the Empire—a chorus of loyalty to the
colonial idea before whose unanimity the mother country
would see the need of conciliation.
♦
Thus “ Preference ” in the National Review :
No country has ever yet created a national industry
under Freetrade. John Stuart Mills’ famous paragraph
showed what America had realised from the first, that a
young country, no matter how great may be its natural
aptitude for manufacture, cannot sustain in the beginning
the rivalry of a fully equipped industrial nation, and
requires to be protected from that rivalry in order to rise
in the scale of economic development.' During nearly
three centuries this country (Britain) built up its manu-
facturing and maritime power under the most persistent
and stringent system of Protection that the world has
seen. Was it to be supposed that when we had acquired
a crushing power of dumping, an irresistible superiority
in almost every species of manufacture, that foreign
nations should admit us to their markets as soon as our
interests lay, no longer as formerly in reserving
privileged markets for ourselves, but rather in
securing full scope for our productive force in
every commercial sphere throughout the world? Had
universal Freetrade been conceded to us we should
have trampled out all manufacturing competition,
whether in the continent or the United States, and re-
mained indefinitely the workship of the world, while
other nations continued to delve, plough and sow for us.
That was not the conception of their destiny that com-
mended itself either to Europe or America. They have
become our industrial rivals under Protection. They
could never have developed without Protection any more
than we did. America’s practice, from the foundation of
the Republic, and the great system of national economy,
which Friedrich List based afterwards upon the study of
Transatlantic conditions, was inspired by the fiscal his-
tory of this country. Foreign nations have adopted the
tariff for their own benefit, not for our injury, and-they
have done precisely what we should have done, at any
time, in their place. We did it in the past, and we shail
do it again in the near future.
♦
A CRY from Victoria :
Barton’s gerrymandering tariff is wiping out one Aus-
tralian industry after another. The anomalous excise
duty on spirits has shut up the Australian distilleries, and
now comes a tale of desolation from the engineering
trade, which has almost disappeared, three large estab-
lishments having closed down. The engineering trade is
practically unprotected, and the most rabid Freetrader
could not wish for a better state of affairs. The im-
portation of machinery into the Commonwealth
during 1902 amounted in value to £1,694,719 of British
goods, not reckoning the value of machinery im-
ported from America and Germany. Before the in-
auguration of Federation, Victorian engineering
works were very busy, some employing as many
as 400 men. The Barton Government'failed to carry
more than a 12J per cent, duty on imported machinery,
which was neutralised by the imposition of a 10 per cent,
duty on the raw material, thus enabling foreign sweated
manufactures to wipe out the Australian industry. The
engineering trade contributes a legion to the unemployed,
and the Melbourne branch of the Engineers’ Society is
distributing more than £lOO a week to keep the wolf
away from the doors of its members. No work of any
real value, except a little tinkering repairs, is done
in the silenced and deserted foundries. A duty
which practically only amounts to 2J per cent, cannot
keep out foreign machinery from the Commonwealth:
Nothing but a stiff duty of 30 per cent, on both imported
machinery and raw iron, together with the establishment
of Government ironworks, will save the engineering trade
from total destruction. A fiscal truce would suit the
Freetraders, but the Protectionists who agree to such an
unholy compact are traitors to the cause of Australian
Labor. The tariff should engage the attention of Parlia-
ment at an early date. Democracy without adequate
Protection against the foreign sweater means starvation
to the workers in the Commonwealth.
*
What can happen in Bent’s State (Age item)
Yesterday morning, the watchhouse-keeper at South
Melbourne heard a faint moaning in the passage leading
to the office, accompanied by peculiar pattering and
rustling sounds. A remarkable figure—that of a very
little, very old woman, garbed quaintly in the dress of a
bygone age—appeared in the doorway. Dragging herself
into the watchhouse by the aid of two sticks, she sank on
to a form. Her face was shrunken and deeply furrowed
by years, and she was totally deaf. The old woman
exclaimed in shrill falsetto tones, “ I’m ninety-six years
of age, God help me, and I want a home. Kind sir, can’t
you get me into some institution? Some place where I
can lie down and die in peace ? lam so old, and I’m no
use to anybody. The woman lam living with is going to
turn me out because I’m feeble, and she says I’m a
nuisance to her. So I only want to die.” Constable Gil-
landers endeavored to explain that the police had no
power to admit her anywhere, except to gaol. “One of
the first bounty emigrants to Victoria,” she .murmured,
“more than 60 years ago, and now turned adrift with
only two shillings in the world. Ah, well, it’s time to
die, and I’m ready.”
♦ Vi-
New South Wales Land Appeal Court has just
decided another of those weird cases which hang
on the definition of the word “simultaneous.”
Two cookies applied for one bit of land. No. 1
got to the office at 11 a.m. (an hour after it was
opened). No other personal applications were re-
ceived that day, but. one week was allowed for
postal applications. Before the week was up
another application came in, and No. 2 argued
that as the rules gave him a week to apply in by
Eost, it must count back to the day the land
ecame first available. This being admitted.
No. 2 further urged that it must also count back
to 10 a.m., the time the office opened. The
Land Board agreed to this, and gave him
the land. The matter was then argued
out before the Land Appeal Court, which
ruled that, though posting tne application gave
No. 2 the right to say that it reached the Land
office on Thursday, the day the land was avail-
able, it did not entitle him to say that it reached
there at 10 o’clock exactly. The court did not say
that No. 2’s letter reached the office at 11 o’clock
either, which was the time No. 1 reached the
office, but decided that both applications were
“ simultaneous,” and were to be treated as such.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Darling- of the Gods.”
Theatre Royal “ The Price of Peace.”
Lyceum “The Rose of the Riviera.”
Criterion “ The Marriage of Kitty.”
Palace Nawn’s Comedy Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Girl from Kay’s.”
ft hr Majesty’s “Sherlock Holmes.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great World of London.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
♦
“The Price of Peace,” staged at the
Sydney Royal by Bland Holt on Saturday, is, like
the curate’s egg, quite good in places. It opens
rather dully, and for two acts gives no promise of
being anything but an ordinary melodrama. Then
it takes a garish and highly sensational course, and
in a greatly daring scene gives some real thrill.
The love story to which the first two acts are given
h too much of the hackneyed type to be genuinely
interesting, and the play would have done
better if it had plunged into its political
part straight away, showing the daughter of
Lord Derwent, Premier of England, misled
by an admirer into stealing a despatch ; the
despatch handed over to a foreign spy ; and then,
to cover up the mischief, which would have landed
England in a disastrous war, the spy being de-
liberately murdered by Lord Derwent. That is
“ the price of peace ” which he is willing to pay,
and it makes a stirring incident, fulfilling the de-
mands of real tragedy in being shown as inevitable
though guilty, justifiable though criminal. The
staging of the piece is throughout ambitious, and
ome of the elaborate scenes are more than ordin-
arily successful.
* * * * *
There is in “ The Price of Peace ” a great
cast of characters, but only a few stand out
with any distinction. Walter Baker gives an
i npressive picture of the aged Lord Derwent.
Of a comparatively small part—that of the foreign
spy—Arthur Styan makes very good use, and
Albert Norman is a satisfactory, if somewhat
hackneyed, villain. To Bland Holt falls the bur-
den of the comic relief, and as Aristides Tulk,
who got into Parliament as a Good Man candi-
date, but succumbs occasionally to the temptations
< f London, wins much laughter. There is not
much scope for the feminine characters. Miss
Ross, as Lady Rossmagh, has the chief chance,
and is, as usual, bright and sympathetic.
Brawn is “ oft'” at the Tivoli. The
last times it was served the tables were
full and running over, but it had a
flavor of ptomaine about it. Twice
wrestler Carkeek and the large Algerian
met: the first time the Algerian under-
took to throw the Cornishman inside
iSOmins., Graeco-Roman style, and didn’t;
the second time, two nights afterwards,
the contest was said to be for a purse of
£5O, best two of three falls, the man who
won his fall in the shorter time to nomi-
nate the style of the third. But there
wasn’t any third. Carkeek won the
cateh-as-catch-can in lßmins. odd, Mer-
zouk, the Graeco-Roman, in 20mins.
odd. Then they mistook wrangling for
wrestling, and finally Merzouk’s French
manager would not let his man meet the
other in the catch-as-catch-can. Now
Carkeek has gone on to Melbourne,
and Merzouk, still undefeated, has fol-
lowed him; so that Melbourne can
have the excitement all over again. Of
course people said nasty things; but
still, as an exhibition of wrestling, even
if it wasn’t anything else, it was worth
the money. The place of brawn in the
bill is now taken by the Uessems, the
extraordinary pair of youngsters who do
such balancing feats as the oldest inhabi-
tant can’t call to mind that he has ever
seen before —youngsters who, on the
solemn word of manager Rickards, were
really and truly drawing £lOO a week
from the London Empire alone when he dis-
covered them. Also, Maud Beatty is in the bill,
and the bill is all the better for it.
** * *
It must be confessed in hopsack and ashes
that Sydney isn’t infatuated with vaudeville when
she wears long frocks. Tom Nawn’s imported
high-class co. of entertainers is therefore drifting
further and further from the original variety plan
of things, and giving more and more attention to
the comedies which it brought over in its “ grip ” :
next Saturday some remarks concerning Mr.
Dooley will spread out to three acts. For this
purpose the co., already strong, will be strength-
ened by Martyn Hagan and Miss Fuller, of whom
this continent seems to have heard before. But
there will still be room in the bill for the “tossing
Austins” and the musicians who hammer Wagner
out of rosewood chips.
** * *
“ The Marriage of Kitty ” is still happen-
ing with unbroken success at the Criterion. The
charming little French piece has had a run now of
a month, and it looks as though Miss Rose Mus-
grove might go on getting married under false
pretences for another month without exhausting
the number of those who want to see how Reggies
with £16,000 a year can be hooked.
** * *
‘ ‘ The Rose of the Riviera ” still blooms
at the Sydney Lyceum. The audience is begin-
ning to better appreciate the clever fairy dancing
of Miss Nixon, the bright, eccentric business of
the men comedians, and other subsidiary features
of a show which glitters most of the time and has
hardly a dull moment.
* * *
Watkin Mills, the famous English singer,
whose address at present is somewhere on the
Pacific Ocean, arrives by the Sonoma on the 17th
and will begin to roll out melodious thunder in
Sydney Town Hall on the 22nd. Three concerts
will be given in quick succession, and anyone
desiring to learn how well ‘ ‘ Rolling in Foaming
Billows” can be sung had better book his seat,
also one for his wife. One, Edward Parlovitz,
described as a distinguished Polish pianist, accom-
panies Mr. Mills in both senses of the word.
#- * * *
A second survey of ‘ ‘ The Darling of the
Gods” gives the surveyor—among other oppor-
tunities a chance to size up some of the
gods by whom the Darling is beloved —their
stone or gold presentments, of course. That
giant one of Buddh, “the god in the moun-
tain,” is a noble thing that seems to give a
feeling of peace to the beholder. There’s a
sensation of the “hush and mystery of death”
about him and his mysterious smile and folded
hands. He convinces the beholder that if he
alone were consulted he would not keep the
Japanese Juliet from her slant-eyed Romeo’s side
for a thousand years. As a counter-irritant
deity there is the hideous idol in the sword-room
of the palace of the Minister for Assault and
Battery. His worshippers on their knees address
him by a name that sounds like “ Ard-ju-ninny.”
He has a large number of hands, and every
fist holds a sword ; and by the petitions
put up to him for help to kill someone or
curse someone, he must hold an influential
place among Jap gods. The goddess “ Kwannon”
must be an amiable-looking monster judging from
her stone effigy. Then there are double-headed idols
wearing frightsome leers and rich clothing. None
can say a disrespectful word about the color-
scheme of the drama. Those who have not
noted the vermilion in Yo-san’s father’s palace
have missed a brilliant streak of decorative effect.
Also the moving lanterns (carried by assassins)
seen from behind transparent screens give one a
color-thrill. Miss Jeffries acts her rdle of Sweet-
Silliness effectively, and if Henry Plimmer, as
Prince Tosan, and Frank Stirling, as Tanda-
Tanji, a gay young foolish noble, were not men-
tioned in the last notice the omission was not due
to any lack in their acting. They make very good
Japs indeed. The “D. of the G.” will run for
another nine nights.
WINIFRED POWNGEBY, Artists' Model—victim,
of the Castlereagh-street Tragedy.
From a chalk sketch from life.
Rawson Excellencies will give the use of
their grounds at “Cranbrook ” for a Garden Fete
in aid of the District Nursing Charity early in
September.
** m #
The latest Anderson ian show at Melb.
Royal appeared to fill the yellowdrama public
with comfort and joy on Saturday night. “The
Great World of London” is strong in highly-
colored backgrounds and diversified stage effects :
the slummy, beery side of London life is presented
with some regard for truth, and, although the
triumphs of virtue are wearisome features of a
foolish narrative, the incidental murders give
lively satisfaction. There are two capital offences.
Firstly a murder in a railway carriage whilst
the train is in motion, which has all the
charm of novelty for the spectator, and
then the calm, contemplative crime whereby
Lawrence Dunbar removes Willard from his path,
a transaction that in no way concerns the monoto-
nous “innocence of Jack.” This murder—a
humorous and lingering one—leads to the capture
of Dunbar at a Salvation Army shelter, where an
interesting assortment of true-born Britons get a
cup of coffee and a coffin-box to sleep in for the
small sum of threepence a head. The badinage of
General Booth’s lodgers, as they doss in their
coffin-boxes, provides a bright finish to the drama.
* * * *
The first half of “T.G.W.0.L.” is bur-
dened with a large quantity of leaden “comic-
relief” by the popular Bert Bailey, who per-
petrates a crude, callow burlesque of what is
intended to be a genial old-man character. In
the last two acts there is more blood and beer and
bustle and rather less Bailey. Casual ‘ ‘ drunks
and dead-beats are the salt of yellowdrama. They
lend a flavor of probability to the scene, and help
one to swallow the plot.
** * *
Melbourne begins to forgive the new com-
pany at the Princess’s for not having taken public
estimation by storm. “The Girl from Kay’s” is
drawing good houses, and that tuneful tale of
love and money pleases many people to whom
“Three Little Maids” was an unknown quantity.
It is bright and interesting, and not scrupulously
moral in tone. Hoggenheimer’s first intentions
towards the millinery lady are as purely dishonor-
able as any of his prospectuses. He never thinks
seriously of marriage until the dear girl, fearing she
can’t bleed him “on the never,” so to speak, tells
him that her terms are matrimony down on the
nail, whereupon Hoggenheimer becomes master of
the situation by closing with the syren’s offer. If
he didn’t take her into a nominal partnership she
might cost him all his fortune. By making her
his wife he will retain the ownership of everything
he gives her. “ The Girl from Kay’s ” emphasises
the fact that the girl who marries a preposterous
Hoggenheimer when she has “ got him dead ” is a
fool to sell herself with the sanction of the church,
but a millionaire who knows his own infatuation
doth well to abide by it. King Solomon never
invented a wiser proverb than this. Huntley’s
consistent performance of the German Jew bubble-
maker is the mainstay of the show, and it is only
in her association with him that Miss Crichton
seems to carry any weight of interest. Miss Delia
Mason, as the disconsolate bride, is putting a little
warmth into her charming ingenue manner.
Maurice Earkoa also improves on acquaintance,
and the rest of the entertainment goes with more
snap than at first. The omission of two or three
unnecessary encores would probably improve the
general effect.
** * *
Rev. John Carkeek, an eloquent muscular
Christian who wrestles with sin, delivered his first
address to the multitude at Melbourne Opera
House last Saturday. Carkeek (he is evidently a
“Rev.,” although he doesn’t plead guilty to it)
introduced himself in a number of well-
chosen words, and gave the ladies a solemn
assurance “that his wrestling would be so
arranged as not to offend the most sen-
sitive nature.” Then he wrestled awhile with
a terrible German named Gus, and, having van-
quished Gus after an uninteresting bout, he put
on a dressing-gown and resumed his remarks.
Carkeek is understood to be meeting all comers
on terms eminently favorable to the oppo-
nent. If the reverend gentleman doesn’t get
the best of a gruelling struggle within 15
minutes, the other fellow receives £lO for
his trouble. Heaven only knows what reward
would happen to any brawny Australian who had
the temerity to hurl Carkeek into the orchestra.
There are other new turns at Rickards’ in addition
to the wrestler. Tom Dawson shakes a notably
nimble leg, and Jeanie Eletcher sings Scotch
ballads in a pleasing soprano and a kilt.
** * *
Her Majesty’s, improved and beautified
for the third time since J. C. Williamson took
the management, will re-open on Saturday as
“the most comfortable, the most commodious,
and undoubtedly the safest theatre in the Com-
monwealth.” The Cuyler Hastings Co. is re-
turning to play a short season, and Melbourne
has an affectionate welcome in store for several
members of that much-travelled organisation. A
week of “Sherlock Holmes” will be followed by
“The Admirable Crichton.”
** * *
Madame Fried-Griselda, the American
soprano, gives two concerts at Melbourne Town
Hall, on Thursday and Saturday of this week.
The professional orchestra, originally intended to
be 50 strong, is going to number 70, and the musi-
cal world anticipates a pleasant thrill from
Madame’s bold enterprise.
* *- #• *■
At Adelaide Royal the Willoughby-Geach
co. has put a lot of good acting into “ A Stranger
in a Strange Land,” which hardly deserves it.
However, its declared object is “merriment
only,” and that it gets; also it got some big
audiences on race-nights. The co. now disbands.
The Charles Holloway co. has just started a season
that is to last for some weeks. First item, revival
of “ Two Little Vagabonds,” with Beatrice Hollo-
way as Dick. At the Tivoli, Rickards continues,
with a change of stars, Frank Harwood and Miss
Duprez (who elects to be known as “jolly ”) being
in the lead.
The Progress of the Honest Party.
It is good news to record that B. R. Wise and
W. P. Crick have both retired from the recon-
structed See Ministry on the ground that the
present circumstances demand an absolute non-
borrowing policy. This is an accession to the
Honesty Party of enormous value. The two men
represent almost the total political strength of the
See party ; the rest is a mere remnant. The
Bulletin now looks forward to seeing a non-
borrowing majority in the next N.S.W. State
Parliament.
The Wild Cat Column.
The past year’s working results of life-assurance
offices doing business in Australasia are shown hereunder.
(Most offices end their year on 31st December ; the excep-
tions are the National Mutual, Temperance and General,
Standard, and Australian Metropolitan.) Expense rate
and interest earnings on mean funds are first presented
Australasian Oefices.
Expenses per cent. Interest Earned on
of Total Income. Funds per cent.
r ' <-■ \
1902. 1903. 1902. 1903.
A.M.P. .. £8 14 0 £8 17 0 £4 9 2 £4 8 10
Citizens’ (ord.) 13 18 11 13 14 3 4 1 0 4 3 6
Maoriland .. 13 5 5 13 19 4 4 7 6 4 6 11
Mutual Life of
Aus. .. 19 9 10 17 16 0 4 7 4 4 7 0
National Mut. 17 5 11 17 16 4 4 11 7 4 13 11
Widows’ Fund 20 14 11 18 19 6 4 6 8 4 7 1
001. Mutual.. 18 17 5 19 19 10 3 19 4 3 19 8
City Mutual.. 23 32 22 39 594 590
Temp. & Gen.
(ord.) .. 25 5 3 26 95 494 4 8 fi
Citizens’ (ind.) 58 85 53 19 1 410 430
Temp. & Gen.
(indus.) .. 66 2 7 66 95 492 480
Standard .. 82 1 6 76 3 11
Aus. Metrop.. 107 14 3 80 10 6
American Offices.
Equitable .. 18 9 6 19 9 7 4 1 11 3 19 11
N.Y. Life ..20 12 10 20 14 2 4 4 4 4 4 8
Mut. ofN.Y.. 20 15 10 20 14 5 4 1 4 4 5 4
In the American offices the expenses are shown on total
cash income. During' 1903 there was a very large slir.i,.:-
age in the market value of securities. Two of the ouiteCs
practically charge up this shrinkage as outgoings, ai.d, on
that basis, the expense rate is of course higher. In the
case of the Mutual of New York it would amount to
£23 11s. sd. instead of £2O 14s. sd. The Mutual’s in-
creased interest earnings are also largely due to this
severe writing-down of securities.
In the next table the amounts added to assur-
ance funds, and the total of those funds, are shown :
Added to Total of
Assurance Funds. Assurance Funds,
A
1902. 1903. 1903.
A.M.P £914,599 £895,310 £19,674,423
Nat. Mutual .. 194,944 213,965 3,674,436
Maoriland .. 97,402 129,244 3,512,061
Col. Mutual .. 121,749 114,220 2,735,082
Mut. Life of Aus. 105,247 129,660 1,782,673
Widows’Fund .. 59,195 61,973 1,639,726
Citizens’(ord.) .. 135,154 147,824 774,578
Citizens’ (indust.) 36,747 35,088 370,680
Temp. & G. (ord.) 30,583 26,135 310,583
City Mutual .. 15,430 16,316 254,713
T. '& G. (indust.) 9,859 14,392 49,063
Aus. Metrop. .. 976 15,764
Standard.. .. 4,562 6,180 7,028
Mut. of N.Y. .. 6,113,507 3,892,208 81,981,491
Equitable .. 5,774,694 4,555,616 77,879,851
N.Y. Life.. .. 6,515,700 6,125,788 72,465,231
In the American offices the amount shown as added to
funds is the excess of revenue over expenditure, less the
shrinkage in value of securities during the year. The
American insurance law requires that no inflated values
shall go in the balance-sheet; and, as large writings-down
have been necessary during the year, the amounts added
to funds show a considerable reduction in conseque. e.
The Mutual of New York wrote off £1,915,712 ; the Equit-
able, £618,230 ; the New York Life apparently £1,145,571.
Several of the Australian offices have investment fluc-
tuation reserves (not included in their funds as shown
above). The Colonial Mutual wrote £6254 off its fund.
The A.M.P. added £3874 ; its total fluctuation reserve is
£257,829. The Maoriland office has a reserve of £56,595 ;
it was not operated on during the year. The National
Mutual has a reserve of £85,915, of which £4OOO was
added in 1903. The City Mutual wrote up its assets
by £3071 ; this is included in the amount added to funds.
The Australian Metropolitan’s total funds include £10,095,
by which amount the assets have been written up.
The City Mutual continues to show the highest
interest earnings per cent, of funds ; all but £22,458 of its
funds are, however, in mortgages, properties, &c., and
only the small amount named in State securities, &c.
The Colonial Mutual shows the poorest earnings ; it has
scattered itself to the ends of the earth, and consequently
has to keep in hand a large amount of unproductive cash,
while its foreclosed properties stand for a large amount.
Its position is, nevertheless, better than it was ; and so is
that of the Citizens’, which is, nevertheless, still next to the-
bottom of the list. The Citizens’ progress has been one of the
striking features of the insurance year; apparently,
however, the ordinary branch still benefits to some
extent at the expense of the industrial branch—the latter,
apparently, provides all the dividend on the £20,000
shareholders’ capital. The Mutual Life of Australasia has
also advanced considerably. The expense rate of the
Maoriland State office for 1903 has suffered through
having to bear the cost of the triennial valuation. In-
dustrial business was generally done at less cost to the
insurers, but the rate is still abnormally high.
Generally speaking, the Australian life offices’
interest earnings are considerably less than they were.
Ten years ago the A.M.P. earned £5 11s. lOd. per cent.,
against £4 Bs. lOd. in 1903. But, then, the safer holding
of public securities represents 24J per cent, of the assets
now against 4 per cent. then. What may happen to the
The Leading Life Insurance Company of the World,
The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York.
RICHARD A. McCURDY, President.
Statement for the Year ending December 31st, 1903
Assets exceed £82,509,000
Contingent Guarantee Fund and
Divisible Surplus ..
Income, 1903
Payments to Policy Holders, 1903
Insurance and Annuities in Force
£12,729,000
£15,901,000
£6,798,000
£297,264,000
During the Year 1903 the New Business written by The Mutual Life of New York amounted
to £43,691,000, showing an increase of £1,659,000 over the previous year.
Head Office -for Australasia:
COMPANY'S BUILDING, MARTIN PLACE AND PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD RENNIE, General Manager,
Branches at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart and Perth.
Messrs. Stott and Hoare, of Moore-street, Syd-
ney, have had 20 years’ experience in business training
and the conduct of specialised education. Their postal
tuition system is under the control of specialist teachers,
and each student is dealt with individually. Completed
students obtain the College’s Diplomas of proficiency,
which are recognised throughout Australasia as reliable
proofs of competency.*
A Letter from PADEREWSKI
about the PIANOLA.
“ Gentlemen, —
“It is astonishing to see this little device at work executing the
masterpieces of pianoforte literature with a dexterity, clearness and velocity
which no player, however great, can approach.
“ Everyone who wishes to hear absolutely faultless, free of any kind of
nervousness, piano playing should buy your ‘ Pianola.’ ”
Free and Informal Recitals daily from 10 to 12 and 3 to 5.
The word “ PIANOLA ” is copyrighted and the instrument is patented.
It is sold ONLY by
H. M. BIRGE &
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


office which seeks big: returns from mortgages, the Colonial
Mutual shows ; even now, 27 per cent, of its assets are in
real estate (apart from mortgages), very much of which has
been acquired by foreclosure, and its earnings, which
were a good deal above £5 once, were down to £3 17s. lid.
a year or two ago. This office has now 12 per cent, in
public securities. The Maoriland office holds 22J per cent,
in those securities. The National Mutual still relies
mainly upon mortgages ; its public securities are only 6
per cent, of its funds. The Citizens’ has 27 per cent.
; u public securities ; seven years ago it had only 5i per
cent. The Mutual Life of Australasia has over 19 per cent. ;
10 years ago it had only 3Jr per cent. These changes mean
smaller earnings—for the time, at least —but they also
mean greater security, and probably better earnings in
the long run. #
At the end of 1893 Maoriland savings bank
deposits numbered 147,199 and totalled £3,966,849. At
the end of 1903 they numbered 280,011 and totalled
£8,432,958. Thus does Socialistic legislation devastate a
country and drive capital in terror from its shores.
* * * *
The United States and Australia shape differ-
ently when a depression comes along. Australia had one
last year, and the year before, and three things happened
—(1) It exported far less than usual ; (2) it borrowed
more than usual ; and (3) in consequence of borrowing
more it imported more, and so left the local workman
with less to do than usual. The United States have had
their depression for the past 10 or 12 months ; and in the
eight months to the end of February the imports fell from
681,000,000d015. to 654,000,000d015., but the exports
rose from 982,000,000d015. to 1,048,000,000d015. When
Australia, which depends upon its great natural re-
sources (including an uncertain climate) strikes a Jean
streak' it simply borrows harder, and imports harder, and
keeps more foreign workmen employed with borrowed
money ; but when the United States strike the same sort
of streak they make the foreigner pay, first by giving him
less work than usual to do, and then by driving their own
factories harder, and supplying him with more goods.
When the lean streak is finished Australia is left with
a few millions more debt; while the United States haven’t
added a cent to their debt, but have. Organised their
factories and their trade better even than they were
organised before.
* * * *
The New York Life Insuu woe Co. (the income
shown, and therefore the addition to funds, is irre-
spective of variations in the market value of securities): —
Total Total Added to
Income. Expenses. Claims. Outgoings. Funds.
£> £/ £ £ £
1895.. 7,796,763 1,619,244 3,455,459 5,074,703 2,722,060
1896.. 8,053,407 1,628,670 3,803,214 5,431,884 2,621,523
1897.. 8,599,400 1,728,702 3,993,715 5,722,417 2,876,983
1898.. 9,348,131 i,847,549 4,427,956 6,275,505 3,072,626
1899.. 10,775,980 2,168,393 4,569,337 6,737,730 4,038,250
1900.. 12.122.329.2,421,921 4,805,725 7,227,646 4,894,683
1901.. 14.568.426.2,751,748 5,680,944 8,432,692 6,135,734
1902.. 16,255,708 3,355,544 6,287,031 9,642,575 6,613,133
1903.. 18,138,196 3,755,931 7,110,905 10,866,836 7,271,360
The New York Life presents its accounts in a different way
from the other two American offices doing business in
Australia. These latter debit the year with any shrinkage
which has occurred in the value of the securities as ascer-
tained by the American State audit, and credit themselves
with any increase. The New York Life, however, while
remarkably explicit about most things, fails to show
these movements, and disregards them in its statement of
income and expenditure. Whereas £7,271,360 is shown as
added to funds, a comparison of last, and previous years’
balance sheets indicates that, during the year, assets have
only increased by £6,125,789, the other £1,145,571 pre-
sumably representing shrinkage in the value of assets.
The actual position during the past five years has been :
Excess Apparent
of Gain or Loss
Receipts through
over Fluctuation of
Expenditure. Securities. Funds.
T 1899 £4,038,250 Gain £180,996 £48,652,335
1900 4,894,682 „ 402,883 53,949,900
1901 6,135,734 Loss 261,892 59,823,742
1902 6,613,133 „ 97,433 66,339,442
1903 7,271,360 „ 1,145,571 72,465,231
The slump in most American securities, following the
Pierpont Morgan smash, is of course responsible for the
bad showing in the past year. Probably at December
: 31st the position was not actually as bad as this. Hitherto,
the difference between book and market values has been
included as an asset; now “ book or cost value ” only is
reckoned, although it is claimed that the market value is
: almost half a million sterling in advance of the former
\ value.
Expenses are still high, the result apparently
'of the strain to keep the figures as to new insurances
: ahead of all predecessors
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
:1895 £2O 15 4 per cent. 1900 £l9 19 7 per cent.
1896 20 4 5 „ 1901 18 17 10 „
11897 20 2 1 „ 1902 20 12 10 „
.1898 19 15 3 „ 1903 20 14 2 „
.1899 20 2 5 „ |
'The new policies numbered 171,118 against 155,440 in 1902
and 73,471 in 1898—a very remarkable increase. The
•average amount per policy is £3BB ; the average amount
■of all policies in existence, £440. The average of the new
policies of the big Australian office, the A.M.P., is £258.
Other things being equal, the American business should
therefore be cheaper to work ; yet the A.M.P.’s expense
rate is a good deal less. The American office is making
gigantic strides, but it costs a lot of money to keep up
the pace.
Partly, no doubt, on account of the writing-
down of assets, the interest-earnings are slightly ahead of
the previous year’s .figures. In 1902 they were £4 4s. 4d.
per cent. ; in 1903, £4 4s. Bd. This does not include pro-
fit (£56,396) on securities sold during the year. This is an
excellent rate, especially considering the extent of the
co.’s transactions ; it is nearly up to the Australian
level, and a good deal ahead of the English level—
though as to English offices the lower expense
rate more or less counterbalances matters. In
addition to its policy reserves and reserves to provide
dividends to policy-holders, the office has a contingency
reserve; the latter has heen considerably drawn upon,
evidently to partly provide for the shrinkage in value of
the assets, but still remains at £1,650,287, so that a very
considerable further shrinkage could occur before the
other reserves were reached.
* * * *
Bull may barrack for his yellow ally, but he puts
his money on the Bear :
May, 1903. May, 1904. Decline.
Bear 4 per cents. .. 101 90 11
Monkey 5 per cents. 105 83 22
* * * *
At the first general conference of the Methodist
Church, held in Melbourne, an attempt made to place the
superannuation fund on an actuarial basis was rejected.
To make the fund solvent it would have been necessary to
put money into it, and as the conference was reluctant
to do this, it decided that God would look after things.
But, alas, God has so many thing's to see to.
* * * *
The Liverpool and London and Globe
Insurance Co. (Life and Annuity Departments):—
Share- Added
Income Claims Expenses holders’ to
Dividend Funds
1894 .. £624,973 £445,036 £28,033 £151,904
1895 .. 736,524 456,129 28,816 251,579
1896 .. 572,131 395,636 29,249 147,246
1897 .. 590,984 377,367 30,673 182,944
1898.. 623,476 475,277 30,832 £86,903 30,464
1899 .. 662,716 498,082 30,992 133,642
1900 .. 629,539 480,295 31,517 117,727
1901 .. 621,697 499,517 31,736 90,444
1902 .. 609,722 556,764 31,988 20,970
Taken from
Funds
1903 .. 604,539 540,158 32,943 86,903 55,465
Of the amount included last year as claims £22,808,
surplus on life accounts, was carried to the annuity
account. The life department’s experience was therefore
considerably more satisfactory than in 1902 : claims and
surrenders amounted in the latter year to £354,204, while
last year the total was only £308,979. The total funds
in these two departments amount to £5,528,028. The
annuity business has been somewhat smaller than usual
in recent years. The consideration received in the past
three years has been : —l9Ol, £182,438; 1902, £164,371 ;
1903, £130,159. This decline no doubt has been caused by
the increased competition for money in reasonably safe in-
vestments. On the other hand, the life business shows a
steady increase. The annuity business is a very cheap
one to handle; and the decline in income from this
source sends up the expense rate. Calculated on the
total income (and charging- the year with only its propor-
tion of dividend), it amounted to £8 7s. 6d. per cent,
against £8 Is. lOd. in 1902 and £7 ISs. in 1901. This is a
very low rate ; but the fact that £130,159 of the income
represents consideration for annuities purchased from the
co. during the year has to be remembered. ' If that
amount is struck off the income, the expense rate is £lO
12s. per cent., which is slightly better than the previous
year’s. In addition to the life and annuity insurance
funds the co. has a general reserve of £1,400,000, which,
however, is held against the large fire risks as well.
* * * *
The Owo’Sullivan and others who seem to have
the idea that the borrowing disease ends nowhere and in
nothing—that you can go on having the disease until the
finish of time without anything happening—ought to con-
sider the position of the N.S.W. municipality of Lambton.
It had the disease, and borrowed until nobody would
lend. Then when it was forced to live on its own
resources it was found that pretty well all it could raise
would be wanted for interest ; so it became demoralised,
and the unanimity with which the ratepayers then
declined to be aldermen was remarkable. At this stage
Cohen put a bailiff in ; and he is in still. This year the
general rate will yield only £585 (for people don’t rush
a place with a bailiff on its doorstep); and of that
amount only £lOO or less will be available to prop up the
culvert that was built with the loans, and fill the hole in
the footpath that was made with Cohen’s money. All the
rest of the rate is due to Cohen ; and even then Cohen
compromised, or things would have been still worse. A
bailiff on the doorstep of the N.S.W. Treasury isn’t a
pleasant prospect, but the 1.0. U. policy, if persisted in,
will land him there, as surely as it landed him in Lambton.
* * * •
Broken Hill South sent 3656 tons of ore to the
mill in the first week in June—a record. Fine reserves of
ore are developed, but value isn’t what it might be. Yet,
as ore can be got, the old tailings are now going up
for re-treatment in but small quantities ; so the aggregate
output is heavier than usual. Chances are, however,
that this will affect the co.’s costs. South has been for
several years doing good mill work, but in the matter of
costs hasn’t quite deserved its reputation, because l-sth
or l-6th of the stuff put through has been old tailings,
already at the surface and crushed almost fine enough,
and therefore involving little outlay.
* * * *
W. H. Woodhead goes hack to the British
Broken Hill as managing director, though that isn’t likely
to make much difference. The mine is comparatively
poorly off for ore reserves, and present set-back in price
of lead gives it only a very small margin of profit with
which to do necessary dead work.
* * * *
Victoria Broken Hill is still being- industriously-
boomed. While the metal markets are in their present
state it is the nearest approach to a wild cat Broken Hill
owns. It isn’t absolutely hopeless (few things are hope-
less at the top of a metal boom), but it is in that neigh-
borhood.
* * * *
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) is developing satis-
factorily at Nos. 14 and 15 levels. The winze from No. 15
to No. i. 6 on No. 1 reef is down 12 feet. Since last Thurs-
day a reef has appeared in the footwall, believed to be
continuation of No. 1 reef below No. 15 level. Full work
is going on in the stopes ; 105 fathoms of ground were
taken out in the last fortnight. Tributors are doing fairly
well in upper workings. The mine all round shows im-
provement.
* * * *
New Hillgrove is crushing day shift only, with
an occasional afternoon shift. Mine at lower levels (No. 7
especially) looks well, and slump in shares is unaccount-
able. Hillgrove holders are not selling. There seems to
be nothing in the g-uess that manager has been picking
stone sent to battery.
» * » *
Hillgrove Cyanide Works, treating the
Garibaldi and Eleanora tailings, are getting good returns.
2500 z. was won from 1476 tons last month. They have
been experimenting- with residues from Garibaldi vats,
which will now go through the “ double treatment.”
* * * *
The threatened ructions over the sale of Cobar
Ohesney came to nothing ; the directors, who had by far
the biggest holding, were for the sale (though Malcolm
M’Eacharn took a lot of persuading), so it was no use
kicking. The old co. gets £40,200, and another £lO,OOO if
the Great Cobar people make a float inside 2£ years. The
Great Cobar is now in charge ; manag-er John Warren was
paid off with the rest at the end of May.
* * * *
Duke and Main Leads Consols’ (Maryborough,
Vic.) burst of water is very serious. Extent is shown by
the fact that the ground at the surface has settled down.
When the length of the drives is taken into account, the
fact that the sand got past the lock into the well and
starved the pumps proves the volume of sand that must
have rushed along the workings. The ground must be
very rotten, and it is a point whether it ought not to be
avoided when work is resumed.
* * * *
Threads of quartz in New Loch Fyne (Matlock,
Vice tunnel have given the bulls a chance to try and jig
shares. Cross-selling, however, doesn’t always bring in
the public, and the people who would like to engineer
rates up are not the solid folk at the back of the mine.
Investment ought to be postponed till it is proved that
quartz is living down from the old workings in the dyke,
and that it carries gold.
* * * *
A semi-Long Tunnel crowd is opening up the
Democrat, at Glen Wills (Vic.). Show has had a good
many masters, including a Bull crowd, but was never
more than a tribute block. Ditto the adjoining United
Brothers. About 20 tons a month doesn’t mean a mine,
though the dirt may be rich ; and that’s all the Democrat
has been.
* * * *
Byron Reef (Newstead, Yic.) flutter did not
come off, for while the reef going south is big, so far it is
practically barren. The shoot of gold in the mine through-
out existed under unusual conditions, and as those have
disappeared the outlook is changed.
* * * *
No sooner did the Great Southern, Rutherglen
(Vic.), supplement div. of 6d. with a bonus of like amount,
than down came the yield. Co. is reporting every ounce
won, and as there must be fluctuations in the value of the
ground, there is no need for alarm at the variation. Board
intends to build up reserve to £5OOO at least.
* * * *
Bull is going to put up £15,000 (£5OOO at once)
to test the old Irish Billy claim near Newstead (Vic).
* * * *
Glenfine South, Pitfield (Vic.), is driving south
in the will-o’-the-wisp hunt after a shoot of gold. Mineral
is in plenty, and quartz galore ; but of gold never more
than a color. Co. is driving west as hard as it can to try
and reach the deep alluvial If wash goes well, it may
have another life by returning to its original purpose of
alluvial mining.
* * * *
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), has started its
mill, in the hope that the Government water supply will
be available before the mine’s supply gives out. Pro-
spects are not healthy. It is questionable if mine supply
will last to the end of June ; one Government well has
cut a bar and practically petered out; the other is not
making nearly enough to run a 10-head mill. It is hard
lines for shareholders to be told that 25,000 tons of 3oz.
ore are in sight, but gold can’t be won for want of water.
It is certain the difficulty will be eventually overcome,
but some shareholders can’t wait.
Cosmopolitan, Kookynie (W.A.), has been look-
ing poorly for some time. Chute of gold, on which co.
has been working, originated in the Cumberland, and dips
pretty flat south. The Cumberland has lost the gold,
and is not likely to produce any for some time, if ever
again. Chairman of Cosmopolitan, at recent London
meeting, told shareholders that co. had underlie of Cum-
berland ground, and would have deep levels for a length
of nearly 5000 ft. This reads well on paper ; but, as no
gold-bearing chute is known so far, there is not much to
go upon except imagination. Sinking main shaft has
been eagerly pushed ahead \ but, as the chute has dipped
away south, and shaft has passed through it, a lot of pros-
pecting may have to be done before pay ore is again
met Ore reserves have increased during the year, but
are far too small to be of any use in guaranteeing life of
co All sorts of promises are made regarding co. s
future and the large area, viz. 472 acres, is held out as a
sop. Anyone who knows W.A. knows there are unlimi.
ted acres'at command of anyone who cares to take them
up • but they may, or may not, constitute a gold mine.
On present prospects Cosmopolitan looks a bad invest-
ment, and a poor gamble.
Hannans Main Reefs (W.A.), which has flitted
from Kalgoorlie to Niagara, is being puffed. Co. now
holds a property at Niagara, known as Parnell’s, and
management tries to make out that it has a good thing.
Possibly. But its general managers (Percy Ogle and Co.)
have previously had no such luck. For years they talked
the same way about Paringa, North White Feathers, and
others, which have never scored a div.
* * * *
State-owned batteries in Westralia crushed
in April 6028 tons for 66090 z. Receipts, £5200 ; expen-
diture, £5OOO. This does not allow' much for interest,
wear and tear or incidentals, ahvays heavy where
batteries are concerned. For May a couple of fair
crushings f are reported from Meekatharra, North Mur-
chison district. Downie’s Pioneer mine gave 1720 z. from
140 tons ; adjoining claim, 350 z. from 30 tons. Burtville
battery put through 51 tons for 1590 z. from the Savage
Captain lease ; and 91 tons from the Banker for 102 oz.
Good results are also to hand from Niagara ; Big Tom
contributed 55 tons, which averaged close upon 20z., and
Pine Lodge yielded over loz. Better ore than usual was
sent in by Black Range ; 21 tons from Eureka gave 30os. :
the Groper, 50 tons for 72Joz. ; the Bilhy, 23 tons for
31£oz. At Norseman a crushing of 37 tons from Yalkyrio
lease, lOloz. ; 13 tons from Nellie May, 25oz.—both
considerably above Norseman averages. *
Murchison (W.A.) mining is brightening. At
Day Dawn the Kinsella, abandoned by an English co., is
on first class stone. Originally it was taken up by miners
from Stawell (Vic.), who named it after Kinsella, one of
the pioneers of that field. Rich leaders gave good results
by dollying; on Saturdays each partner used to get his
share of the gold in a pickle bottle. Eventually, after much
pottering about, the owners of half a dozen leases were
bought out by a Bull co., a battery erected, and a main
shaft put down. Hewitson, who had run the Port Phillip
(dunes) for nearly half a century, and paid divs. out of
quarter-ounce stuff, was manager. But the further the
reef was opened the poorer it became. At last Hewitson
gave it up, and later on the Bull co. got sick and sold the
machinery. Lately a few working miners have taken it
up, and a crushing now being got out is likely to go 2oz.
Some 1 to ljoz. stone is being crushed at Meekathurra,
beyond Nannine, and at Black Range one or two leases
out of a lot are opening well. Still, Black Range is
decidedly uncertain. But Ouddingwarra (the Dead Finish
of 10 or 12 years ago) is still very sick. Its only mine, the
Victory United, has been one long disappointment, and
continues so.
* * * *
Adelaide directors, who have made a success of
hardly a single Westralian mine, propose to give the Vic-
tory, at Guddingwara, best. It is one of the oldest show's
on the Murchison, and has strung shareholders on for
years ; but it has got into such low water now that last
six months 10 head knocked out barely lOOoz. Perth and
Cue shareholders still profess faith in it, and want work
continued. It isn’t easy to see what they are building
their faith on—-looks as though it were on the general
failure of Adelaide management rather than anything in
the mine.
» * » @
The explosion of a dynamite magazine at Cool-
gardie (W.A.), with 15 tons of explosives, is attributed by
the jury to a fire in the magazine, otherwise to spon-
taneous combustion, w'hich is ridiculous. Although 25
miles away, Kalgoorlie thought an earthquake had
occurred. Kalgoorlie’s explosives are kept less than two
miles from the city, in 13 magazines holding 20 tons each.
The average amount contained is 150 tons. Were all to
explode there would he precious little of Kalgoorlie left.
An agitation is now on foot to have the reserve shifted at
least five miles out, as it is said that a bush fire, by spread-
ing into the reserve, might eause an unparalleled catas-
trophe. Broken Hill used to have just the same trouble.
Its magazines were less than a mile from one part of the
town, but a vigorous agitation got them shifted a hit
further out into the mulga.
* * * *
Recent mining accident at Great Boulder, Kal-
goorSe, is the worst, so far, on the Golden Mile. Five
men went down to fix skids in Edwards’ shaft. The shaft
is 1200 ft. deep, and 400 ft. of skidding from the bottom had
been put in, when someone suggested that tw'o gigs or
cages should he used instead of staging—one in each com-
partment. The suggestion was adopted ; but the gigs fell
and all five men on them were killed. A subsequent test
of the engine under similar conditions, i.e., with a load of
about 60st. on, proved that the brakes would not act,
although three men tried to work them, and the gigs went
to the bottom in 6sec. from the start with about 200 ft. of
loose rope on top of them. The engine in use had only
recently been removed from the main shaft, where it had
been at work for years, and has apparently been faultily
re-erected. This goep to show that all engines should be
tested under working conditions before any men are
lowered.
* * * *
Posted at Chillagoe last week“ The directors
regret formally announcing the failure of the reorganisa-
tion'efforts, owing to the Government refusing to grant
the required subsidy for the Georgetown railway scheme,
and unless further negotiations with the Government are
successful they fear that closure, involving complete
stoppage of mining and smelting operations at
the end of the month, is inevitable.” The
failure of the reorganisation efforts is due, not
to anything the Government has refused to do, but to
the failure of the mines. Last year there was a dead loss
of nearly £19,000, without reckoning anything for depre-
ciation. “ Mining properties, railway concessions, water
rights, &c.”, are down in the balance sheet for
£453,080 (cost); and a property that has never
shown a profit, and last year (its best) made the loss
named, obviously can’t carry a capital burden of that size,'
in addition to the frightful expense into which often badly-
conceived works have run the co. It is dog-mean, there-
fore, to throw the blame on the Government. The pro-
posal made to the Government, boibwjQ down,
was that the latter should borrow half-a-minion more
to build a line which might or might not be profitable,
hut which obviously didn’t hold out much prospect of
profit, otherwise the crowd (which offered to lend the
money at the ordinary rate of interest) would never have
suggested that the Government should do the work
and take the risk. Having already the Biggest
Debt on Earth, the Government declined. Now
the co. evidently relies upon the cry of the
unemployed from the north to squeeze the Government
into doing what its better judgment tells it there is no
justification for doing. For the people who are thrown idle
there must he sympathy, of course ; hut they have not the
Government to blame—they have to blame the people who
misled them into going there in the first place and the
greedy crowd which made the success of such mines as
there are in the Chillagoe district impossible.
«** " o
Queensland fine-gold return to the end of May :
1903. 1904.
Jan.-March.. .. 148,4120 z. .. 145,0270 z.
April 49,157,, .. 54,1(6,,
May 65,555 „ .. 60,330 „
Five months .. 263,1240 z. .. 259,4630 z.
This represents a decrease of 33610 z.
* * * *
O.K. copper line (N.Q.) has been making a loss,
contrary to general belief, and show is practically hung
up through expensive transport. Co. has turned out
some nice grade ore, nearly equal to matte in copper
value. Most North Queensland shows have done the same
for a while, and then found it did not pay to shift the
stuff. This was usually discovered when the rYh
ore had just about vanished. 0.K., situated about 45
miles from Mung-ana, has been visited by G. C. Wilcocks
(one of the directors), and Gibb, for a time manager
of the Queensland Copper Co., Mt. Perry. Reported that,
as result of Gibb’s visit, ore will be smelted instead of
shipped. When O. K. erects furnaces its troubles will ber>in
in earnest. Ninety-nine out of everv 100 metallurgists
advise mmeowners to treat their ores on the spot, and
about 95 of them are wrong.
* * £.
Brisbane papers’ mining coluinns, which are
sorrowful stews at best of times, announce that Gibb, late
acting manager Mt. Perry, has been engaged by Govern-
mentsfco report on ores of Cloncurry district, and their
treatment by wet method. Latter point obviously means
a waste of time. Ores of Cloncurry district are not of the
class to be leached, and, anyhow, can scrap iron be carted
to Cloncurry at reasonable rates, for presumably iron
must be used in the precipitation? If wet method is
adopted at Cloncurry, it is a certainty that more copper
will be lost than is recovered, and the rates will be
ruinous. Hydro-metallurgy of copper is a poor-grade
process essentially, and Cloncurry is not a poor-grade
proposition.
* * * *
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers (Q.), had
its annual meeting last week, when the old directors were
re-elected, not, however, without considerable opposition.
Meeting furnished evidence of the fact that Ah Sin is be-
coming a financial power at the Towers. Prom report of
meeting“ The chairman handed out ballot-papers to
the shareholders as the secretary read out the names from
the list. When Mr. W. R. Kluge’s name was called as re-
presenting 3625 shares, Mr. Kluge called out it should be
3750. The chairman said, ‘ Oh, no ; Mr. Kluge, your friend
Hip Lee, did not pay his calls. Your friend, Ah Yick, has
paid his calls all rig'ht.’ Mr. Kluge : ‘ You are arm-in-arix
with a Chinaman yourself sometimes.’ The chairman,:
‘ You are the only person here representing Chiname.u
and you represent all the Chinamen on the shareOhsfc.’'”
* * * »
Stannary Hills, the mostly Adelaido-ownf -l
N.Q. tin show, has got off only £16,150 of the £30,000
additional debentures which were hawked cpme months
ago ; and the co. is still shockingly hard-up. - Like most
N.Q. floats it can’t carry its capitalisation ; last half-year
7649 tons stone gave under 280 tons concentrates, or nob
quite 199 tons metallic tin ;so it averaged about per
cent, metal. The results are usually reported in “ black
tin,” which is misleading—“ black tin ” may he anything
from about 55 per cent, metal upwards. And the costs’
apart from depreciation, interest, administration, &c., of
working this 2£ per cent, stuff were £2 Is. 2d. per t
It is a poor prospect.
* * * •
Report of Professor Gregory (Vic.), on Lye’]
(Tas.) field, conflicts very seriously with past hypotheses
of previous geologists as to the formation of that remark •
able district. Peters looked on the Lyell ore deposit c.s
having been formed in a swamp ; Thureau regarded it as
volcanic mud thrown up by hydro-thermal action, the
gold having been deposited as the result of ascending'
vapors in solution ; Allan claimed it as a lode formation ;
Montgomery ascribed the Iron Blow to material
removed from the pyrites by solution and precipi-
tated at the contact of the pyrites and the
country rock ; and Daly (voicing the views probably
of Beardsley) went for the contact theory. Gregory
formulates the theory that the pyrites, both in the blow
and the schists, are of secondary origin, and are metaso.
matic in their origin. He claims that the tremendous
faulting has crushed and crumpled up the schists at the
site of the Mt. Lyell and South Lyell, and that the solu,
tions have ascended along the South Lyell and thence
made their way into the area now occupied by the Mt,
Lyell blow, and the deposition of the ore has gone on
these two localities. The ore in the schists he regards a:;
fahlbands. As the result of, his investigations, he con-
demns past expenditure on looking for lodes, and urges
that search he made along the line of faults. The report
opens up a new field of thought respecting the district.
i * * *
Continued on page SO).
‘1 in .. ‘ r. "
‘W ..'
g 3 WV?"-
- -' , ."-". ~-»
.‘R‘é‘. 19'". ll;
' ‘-§_~___ “3.. ‘ll _-.\
‘\
TRAMWAYS FOR MIIMES.____
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.—Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, hut an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EV ERYTHING.
itgT Our CATALOGUE is pours for the asking,
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Ore.vstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
A visit to the Engineering works of Mephan
Ferguson, at Footscray, Victoria, fully repays the little
trouble taken. The works cover 10 acres of ground, and
up-to-date machinery is being constantly added to cope
with any description of work which may be ordered. Tho
electric welding plant, and machines for making spiral
rivited pipes are kept fully employed. Amongst wort s
now in course of construction are bridges for Victoria n
Railways, boilers for Dalgety and Co., engine for Wen/
Engine Co., accumulator and Hydraulic steam pump tcj
Pioneer India Rubber Works.*
* * * *
The great merits of the Wilfley Concentrate-
are evidently fully recognised by the mining community
of Australia ; over 600 of the tables have now been sold in
the Commonwealth and the Sole Agents and Manu-
facturers, the Austral Otis Engineering Company
South Melbourne, find some difficulty in keeping ahead < ’
their orders. It is only natural to expect that such r,
striking improvement over all previous machines of
similar object, would speedily attract the attention of tin>
mining community, and such literally proved to be the
case. Without attempting to follow in detail its
phenomenal success, it will only be necessary to state
that in the comparatively short time it has been on the
market, more than 600 tables have been sold in Australia,
and very many thousands in America and everywhere.*
* * * *
The Australasian Insurance and Banking
Record of 20th May, 1904, referring to the report of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited for the
year ended 31st December 1903 writes : —“ The statement
of accounts indicates a continuance of prudent administr?
tion of the affairs of the Society. An income of nearly
£440,000 and the possession of funds approaching three
mill.ons, mark the Society as one of leading importance.
The excellence of the organisation and management c.
the Society is everywhere recognised.”*
* •* * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Mierc -
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
The band saw mills, recently installed in four
States of the Commonwealth, are revelations for efficiency
and reducing cost of timber-cutting. Particulars by
applying to William Fleming, 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the world. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
To Prospectors And Others.—The Curtin-
Davis Proprietary Co. N.L. is prepared to purchase
approved mining properties. Particulars to, John Potts,
Legal Manager, 31 Queen-street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
“ G.R.” : If “Sessil ” (8., June 2) will read the
Mining on Private Lands Act he will find it specially pro-
vides a lessee with the right of ingress, egress and regress.
It certainly does not provide him with timber nor tucker
nor several other things “ Sessil ” might like.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CAKBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. IVlarkwald,
174 William-street,
Melbourne ;
XI Pitt-st., Sydney ; 63 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eaple-st.,
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-st., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.


Society
The editor of a country paper apologises:—
Owing to the overcrowded condition of our columns, a
number of births and deaths are unavoidably postponed
this week.
Now we know that it is George Pile and John
Plummer who are responsible for the unsatisfac-
tory birth statistics of the metropolis. Their silly
letters to Granny Herald occupy so much space
that the baby hasn’t room to kick- in its columns,
and has to be “unavoidably postponed till next
week.” No decent baby can be born in Sydney
unless it is advertised in the Herald.
* * * *
The girl with the vivid imagination and
the dreadful story of what a bad man hasn’t done
to her still crops up with deadly regularity. At
Brisbane Supreme Court, last session, a 19-year-
old damsel accused her father of criminal assault.
Her evidence was of a most elaborate and
unpleasant nature. Under cross-examination,
however, she broke down, and coolly admitted
that she had been telling falsehoods in the lower
court, on the recommendation of her stepmother.
The accused, an elderly man of excellent char-
acter, was discharged—and so was the jade. The
Bulletin can never cease wondering why the girl
in such cases always is discharged. Is it that the
Judges enjoy hearing that sort of a story now and
again, and don’t want to discourage the inventors
thereof too severely ?
* * * *
Federal postal authorities have issued in-
structions that after the present term is up all tele-
phones to houses of “pleasure” will not be
renewed. If there is anything better calculated
to consolidate the “Fat” vote against the Demo-
cratic Ministry than this, The Bulletin can’t
guess at it. Imagine the seething anger of the
respectable patrons of such houses —an anger the
IN THE EARLY
DAYS.
EVE: “ I say, Adam, don’t you think
it’s time you had your hair cut?”
<^ n &® rous because it will not be able to find
mmt S interference with the
most private of private enterprises.
T t i ,
vr lss T°| C , i’ a P ol i ltlcal propagandist of
Melbourne, told her audience the other night:
Une ot the qualifications for good wives in the
near future will be that they must be good poli-.
ticians. At the same time a rival teacher of the.
same sex tells the women of Melbourne that the
first qualification of the good wife is the ability to
cook. All these speakers and preachers make the-
mistake of t.linking women want to be good
wives. I hey don t; they only want to be wives.
Pity the unfortunate infant when teething.
This necessary process subjects him to constant
attacks from strange fingers, which skirmish round
his mouth and, charging in when opportunity
offers, scrape their load of germs and grime against
the arriving molar. The kid struggles, but it is
useless. The average suburban mother whose
“ first ” has started to collect teeth, takes him all
along the terrace and gets every friendly woman
to insert her finger into its mouth. The baby
howls and swears that if he knew the fang was
going to cause such trouble he would never have
ordered it, but still the mother perseveres and
asks every hen of her acquaintance if the gum-
covered molar isn’t a beauty. And some people
wonder why infantile diseases spread so quickly !
Why, if it were not for the wise provision of
Nature which ordains that every suburban mother
shall be on active quarrelling terms with at least
75 per cent, of her neighbors, few infants would
ever survive teething and its concomitant finger-
ing.
» * * *
Stevenson, P.M., speaking at a Methodist
Church function at Broken Hill, told the faithful
that the proposed boycott of Afghan wood-carters
was “a shocking exhibition of unchristian feeling,
as Afghans are British subjects and entitled to
equal consideration with the white residents.”
Curious how cocksure some people are that Christi-
anity is a special perquisite of British subjects.
Curious, too, that a police magistrate should not
know that Afghanistan is not a British possession.
* * * *
One Australian typewriting school, in
advertising for pupils, states that “any young
woman with a good personal appearance and
disposition to study . . . can acquire sufficient
skill,” etc. Why the good appearance? A good
personal appearance and ability don’t always go
together. Does the female typist receive so much
for her work, and something additional for her
“ personal appearance ” ?
* * * *
The ‘ ‘ lodger, ” who is generally reckoned
to have much of the fun of life with but few of its
responsibilities, had a check from Judge Chomley
in Melbourne lately. Judge Chomley laid it
down that a man who lodged in a coffee palace
more or less permanently made it his home, and
thereby lost the right, possessed by casual travel-
lers or “guests,” to recover valuables stolen from
them.
* * * *
The sordid tragedy which happened at
Glenlyon (Vic.) recently lies at the door of the
State’s bungled lunacy system. Dryer’s mother is
in an asylum, and Dryer himself was recently
released from the same place, as being “not
dangerous.” The daughter of Stock, the victim
of the tragedy, issued a warrant, against him
for pre-maternity expenses, and the police, on
arresting him, sent him again to the lunatic asy
lum. Subsequently the asylum people turned him
loose on society once more. Dryer took a notion
into his head to marry the girl, and the old man
objected, with the result that he now lies in
Daylesford hospital horribly mutilated by the
lunatic’s axe. But to the Bent sort of mind it is
cheaper to turn a lunatic out, with a general order
not to be any more looney than he can help, than
to treat him on scientific principles in a properly
equipped asylum, and cure him.
During the hearing of a judicial separation
case at Christchurch (M.L.) the lady complained,
ampng other thin?3> /hat her husband, who is in
the motor car business, never offered to take her
for a. ride, though he used to whirl many other
women round. Also, he put on his hat one morn-
ing and turned his face for England without say-
ing good-bye to herself or the children. He never
wrote,, and' she didn’t see him again for eight
months, when he stalked in, took off his hat, and
asked if dinner was ready. Another of the lady’s
grievances was that hubby caused her great gsief
by continually jeering at her because she wore
false teeth. The court granted the petition.
REFUSED FOR THE POT , BUT GOOD ENOUGH TO MARRY.
RICH WIDOW : “A returned missionary you say you are. I feel flattered, Pm sure.”
J. Quan, who used to manage the Glenelg
railway (S.A.), gave that State’s Railways Com-
mission a sample of how the Jenkins lines are
worked. A farmer, just cutting his own crop,
offered 10s. for the grass growing alongside within
the railway fence. • The station-master said —
“ That’s a good idea, because we would have to
pay to get the grass burned.” But he couldn’t
accept the offer; he had to write to the district
superintendent, who wrote to the traffic manager,
who inquired if the Engine'er-in-Chief objected;
and, as the Engineer-in-Chief didn’t, the matter
was sent to the Commissioner, who sent it trick-
ling back the same way, till it struck somebody
who asked if as good a job would be made as if
the stubble were burned ; whereupon the district
superintendent inquired of the district foreman,
who sought a report from the ganger, who
said “Yes,” which was slowly communi-
cated up to the man who asked, whereupon
he said that there was no objection to the
work proceeding ; and the traffic manager, being
informed accordingly, asked what he should do with
the money when he got it, upon which the comptrol-
ler of accounts had to be consulted, and the traffic
auditor reported that the stationmaster should
debit C. No. 500765 and credit B. No. 07491; and
the station master was about to be informed when
it was acertained by someone that an agreement
ought to be drawn up, which was done and initi-
alled by four people, and passed on to the station-
master, who saw the farmer, who told him that
the grass had all dried up two months ago, and a
passing engine had set it alight, and the fire had
burned all the fencing, and spread into the
paddocks, and that he wanted £29 4s. 6d. compen-
sation. Quan reckoned that the working expenses
might be reduced enormously if the stationmaster
had had power to say “Yes” and seize the half-
sovereign ; and it doesn’t seem an unreasonable
reckoning.
S.A. railway-man Quan’s description of
the waste on the State’s public railways ought to
be read, though, with a description of what hap-
pened on the private railways of the State ; and,
curiously, Quan was the manager of the last two
of those lines. Both of them ran from Adelaide
to Glenelg. The old co.—the Glenelg Railway
Co. —built its line to run through the main streets
of both Adelaide and Glenelg; to this day the
train puffs half-a-mile along King William-street,
and keeps a bell jangling to warn off stray infants,
and pulls up right against the doors of the Supreme
and Police Courts, and within a hundred yards of
the other Government offices. This co.’s service
was so disgraceful, the carriages so filthy, the
fares so exorbitant, that another co.—the Holdfast
Bay—was formed: its line came in at the other
end of the city, and started from the same point
at Glenelg as its rival. There wasn’t enough
traffic for two lines (there was barely enough
for one) ; and eventually there was an amalga-
tion. When that happened the carriages got
more ricketty and filthier than ever, the waiting
rooms were about the most shocking in Australia,
and the fares were plain robbery. As a protest,
the people took to riding in a body in the second-
class carriages only (fare 9d. for a six-mile single
journey to the city’s watering-place), and in
response to that the co. only put on disreputable
2nd-class carriages with hard solid-wood seats and
straight backs. The trains only ran every hour ;
sometimes the break was even longer; and
in this and other ways the public was made
to pay dividends on both lines, though
traffic had practically ceased on one—there
were only three or four trains a day on
the Holdfast Bay line, and they were continued
on account of an existing agreement which the co.
couldn’t break. Glenelg kicked; the suburbs:
along the line kicked; settlement flowed, in other •
directions; and the co. cost the towns- it was
supposed to serve tens of thousands, of pounds
besides seas of inconvenience. And. eventually
the towns prayed the Government to takeover the ■
lines at almost any cost; and Kingston decided
to do it, and his successors finished the job. That
was the last sample of private-railway ownership >
Adelaide had ; and it beat anything even that was •
told about the public system by ex-manager Quan
* ♦ * *
The house at the corner of Hunter and Castle-
reagh streets, Sydney, where Winifred Pownceby
and her friend Walker died in one another’s arms,
is understood to be the property of the Elite'
family, and entailed. Tom Kite, of Bathurst, a>.
very ancient colonist, tied up all his property to ■
the third or fourth generation, the
Kites having a life interest only. The house with)
the pines was so fixed that it could not be leased'
for a longer period than seven years. In boomi-
time some enthusiast offered a big rent for the
ground if a2O years lease could be obtained. An
Act of Parliament was secured to upset the seven
years clause in Kite’s will, but by the time the
Act was got through there was no boom. The
old house is somewhat of a landmark. The father
of Judge Josephson occupied it in the long ago,
and when Charles Mathews was in Sydney he
made it his home. In 1867 it was opened as the
Club House Hotel by one George Barkhausen,
followed by Henry Barnett. In 1872 J. C.
Bowden, who had been in the detective force, be-
came the tenant, having for close neighbor Torn
Garrett. Mr. Bowden held it for many years,
and was succeeded by Mrs. Sullivan. In 1894 it
ceased to be a public-house and degenerated into a.
hash-house, and apparently something worse.
S’Malcolm M‘Eacharn quietly backed out
of the criminal libel prosecution whioht lie had!
instituted against the publisher of the People’s.
Daily (Melb.). It was one thing to get defendant
committed for trial and quite another thing to
come into the criminal court and face' a. cross-
examination. With the sympathetic assent of th®i
Crown Prosecutor and the Attorney General, thie-
incident ended in a nolle prosequi, on the growid
that “no useful purpose would be served by pro r
ceeding further with the prosecution in the peculiar
circumstances of the case.” A man is dragged to
the police court as a def uner of the great Lord
Mayor’s official character ; a committal for trial is
recorded, and then the Crown Law Dept, states
that the vindication of the great Lord Mayor’s
character is not worth worrying about. “In the
peculiar circumstances of the case ” the outside
world naturally reckons a nolle prosequi equivalent
to a full acquittal.
INVOCATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In reply to the Goth who boasted (Bulletin) of abandon-
in j his books for a girl.
O grant me the calm of silent hours,
The leaden pill that shrouds the earth with night,
That hides the puny, sun-born flowers,
And gives me the sun of my red-capp’d light.
May no thought of love disturb my calm—
The puerile joy—the empty, fleeting dream—
Pap of youth—the transitory balm—
Which gone, oh what a fragile world ’twould seem !
tas.
GIDEON JACORS.
IF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If we had all the drinks we drank
Together, years ago,
There is not in the world a tank
That would not overflow.
If we had all the healths that we
Have pledged, in pleasant way,
The chances are that we would see
The dawn of Judgment bay.
If we had all the wishes good,
The riches, luck and health —
This little world it never could
Contain us and our wealth..
V.J.D.
M
THE
“ORIENT”
ONE GUINEA BOOT
Black Calf.
Special.
Price =>
21/-
Delivered, Carriage Paid, to Any Address in the States.
DAVID JONES AND CO.,
CEORCE ai)d BARRACK STS., SYDNEY.
WINTER PHOTO? 7
WHAT TO DO.
There is not quite the attraction for outdoor Photo-
graphy during winter months as in the warmer time of
the year, but there is certainly a fascinating pleasure
in selecting some of your negatives to make nice
enlargements from, or choosing nice bits for picture
Postcards, and preparing Photographic Season Greeting Cards. Contact Printing with
Bromide Paper is a delightful and simple process, printing Being done by GAS or lamp-light,
and within the warmth of the kitchen or dining-room fire. Also making prints on Yolox and
similar papers requiring no dark room is an attraction for the Winter evenings.
The “Victor” and “Crackshot” Enlargers ££^^ss
Enlargements from small size negatives WITHOUT A CAMEEA. No
, focussing necessary. Extremely simple to operate.
No. 2 Enlarger for enlarging from Negatives 3J x2\ (Crackshot) or 4£ x (Victor) to
6| x4forB| x 6J respectively. Price 17/6.”
No. 3 Enlarges from Negatives 5x4t010 x 8 or from 4£ x3l to 8| x6£ inches. Price 22/6
No. 4 for enlarging from Negatives 3|x2J (Crackshot) to 6£ x4f inches. Price 12/6.
BROMIDE and GASLIGHT PAPERS—aII Regular
Sizes—in Packets, at Popular Prices, from 6d.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES FREE.
HARRINGTON
AND
CO. LTD
Photographic
Merchants.
66 King Street, SYDNEY, and 93 Queen Street, BRISBANE.


Bishop Anderson, of Riverina, has been
telling his Synod at Hay that “Communistic
socialism is a shameful thing, which aims at the
sanctity of the family”; and the daily papers
have thrown the remark at the Labor party. But,
of course, the Bishop couldn’t have been thinking
of the Australian Labor men, who don’t believe in
communism ; he was merely blasting the apostles
and Early Christians mentioned in Acts ii. 44 and
45, who “had all things in common.” It seems to
be nearly time that a service for the cursing of the
Early Christians was added to the prayer-book.
* * * *
Even aldermen have feelings. One of them
protested lately at Camperdown against the semi-
comic ghoulishness of setting up undertakers’ ad-
vertisements opposite the front of Sydney’s Prince
Alfred Hospital. It took some time for the pro-
test to get in, one alderman considering the
arrangement beneficial and convenient for both
patients and their friends, but the majority of the
Council finally realised that coffin advertisements
were not the best things for the sick, and backed
up the protest.
To the simple heathen some of the things
said at the Australian Methodists’ Conference
were intensely amusing. Here is a sample of
ancient hymnody supplied by the Rev. 0. H. Gar-
land, of Maoriland
Ye finny monsters of the deep, your Master’s praises
shout ;
Up, up ye codlings from your sleep, and wag your tails
about.
Different times, different Methodists !
* * * *
The specks - before - the - eyes specialist
makes a big effort to hook his man if he gets
the slightest nibble. One man, out of curiosity,
wrote a speck man some three months ago.
Since then he has received 23 letters urging
him to come and get “re-invigorated,” together
with half-a-dozen treatises on nervous disorders
that would shake any man’s faith in his internal
machinery. So far the specie gentleman has ex-
pended 4s. 9d. in postage alone, and a lot of money
on diseased literature, and there is no sign of him
relinquishing the attack.
* ♦ * *
N.S.W. Land Appeal Court is for the first
time to have a layman as president. F. E. Rogers,
K.C., now Judge, was the first president. When
he went out over a dispute about his status (his
idea was that he should be reckoned the equal of a
Supreme Court Judge), Alex. Oliver was
appointed—mainly because, having been for many
years Parliamentary draughtsman, he was sup-
posed to have followed the weird windings of the
N.S.W. land laws. Now H. A. G. Curry, who
began as a small boy in the Lands Department in
’7l, climbs up from the Under Secretaryship; he
acted in the former president’s absence, and
didn’t break anything. The office is one of the
plums of the service ; Rogers and Oliver had £2OOO
a year each. The other members of the court are
Christopher Brandis, who used to be a bank’s pas-
toral inspector, and W. Houston, whom Curry
succeeded as Under Sec. for Lands. So there
won’t be a lawyer on that bench at all.
EASY.
Wife (just sold a 'parrot to the parson's wife):
“She asked me if it swore, an’ I said I
was sorry it didn’t, hut that she could teach
it easy in a couple of weeks.”
HIS DELUSION.
C ABBY: "Why the ! How the
!! Why the don't yer
walk on the footpath? ”
DRUNKEN ONE: “Go ’ome (hic). Do yer think (hic) I’m Blondin ? ”
The public house keepers of N.S.W. are
either an ultra-“loyal” crowd, or are shockingly
lacking in originality. Fossicking in Moore’s
Directory, 1904, shows hotel names as follow :
Royal (124), New Royal (1), Theatre Royal (1),
Royal Exchange (6), Royal Standard (3), Royal
George (1), Royal Oak (1), Royal Mail (3), Royal
Alfred (1), Royal Victoria (1), Imperial (28),
Empire (5), Victoria (11), Crown (5), Queen’s (2).
Queen’s Arms (3), Queen’s Head (1), Prince of
Wales (7), Windsor Castle (2), Duke of Edinburgh
(1), Duke of Cornwall (1), Britannia (1). Then
one comes across a pub. called the White Tank,
and that plain Tank pub. is like an oasis in a
desert of dried beer-stains and kings.
* * * *
The Senate adds to the Australian
language: —
Brigadier-Corporal Neild (on the Federal capital ques-
tion) : The whole affair was a policy of grab. New South
Wales would not give up all that was asked for. (Oh, oh.)
Parliament was intent upon a policy of grab—a policy of
peacocking.
Senator Pearce: Has that anything to do with life
insurance ?
Honorary-Howitzer Neild deprecated such association
of ideas. Peacocking meant picking out the best bits and
leaving the bad ones behind. (Laughter.)
Also it might mean strutting round in gorgeous
feathers and other military millinery.
* * * *»
The Births, Marriages and Deaths column
has burst into anew blossom in Adelaide :
Mr. and Mrs. Jones wish to publicly thank all relatives
and friends for their kind attendance and handsome pre-
sents presented to the bride.
First, there were the plain births, marriages and
death notices ; then the anniversary of the late
lamented’s death came along in horrible “In
Memoriam ” verse; after that, the silver and
golden wedding advts. (this is a great institution
'n S.A., where grave doubts are felt about your
• espectability unless you announce occasionally
that you are married); later on, Mrs. de Jones
teganto return thanks for the “kind messages
rnd floral tributes” when the late lamented was
buried; and now thanks for “kind attendance
and handsome presents to the bride.” Adelaide
seems to be a place that just boils over with
gratitude.
* * * *
“ R.A.K.” : Be overworked school kiddies.
The fault isn’t all on the parents’ side. This is
the home-work of a small youngster, aged nine, in
the third class of a Melbourne State school, one
evening : Three long, stiff sums—long division,
multiplication and compound subtraction; four
questions in mental arithmetic ; write 12 spel-
lings ; and learn geography, spelling and poetry.
For their health’s sake, after a day in the stuffy
schoolrooms, it does kids a lot more good hopping
round doing odd jobs for their parents (not nigger-
drivers, of course,) than sitting cramped up a few
more hours at brain work.
* * * *
The influence of labor organisations is be-
coming recognised in forming public opinion. The
National Peace Congress, held in London recently,
appointed as an organising nucleus two members
each from the Peace Society, the International
Arbitration and Peace Association, the Peace
Union, Friends’ Peace Committee, International
Arbitration League, with a recommendation to
add two representatives of organised labor.
* * * *
Patriotism still lives. At Cowra (N.S.W.),
recently, a mother took the prize at a baby show
for her 15th living child —a girl.
* * * *
The English Commission, which had
Michael Foster, England’s greatest physiologist,
as chairman, reports dead against the recent com-
forting suggestion that the tuberculosis which the
cow has isn’t the same tuberculosis which man
suffers from. The diseases are “in broad general
features and finer histological details identical,”
the commission reports. There never was much
doubt that the dirty alderman who won’t worry
about the health of dairy cows or the inspection
of slaughter-yards was a public enemy and a good
part of a wholesale murderer ; and the commis-
sion’s report whittles away what little doubt there
was.
One of the politest deaths on record
occurred near Jundah (W. Q.)
recently. A carrier, as he
died, calmly said “ It’s
getting dark. Excuse
me ! ” Then he died. And
yet people cast aspersions
on the manners of the bul-
locky and the carrier !
“ S.S.” in reply:—
“ M'G.’s” panegyrics on the “ Daughters of the Fog”
(Bulletin 26/5/’ot) are considerably overdrawn. He deals
with only a small section of the Lady with a liking for a
present, and not with the bedraggled female denizens of
the parks, the low down beldames of the slips, the fres-
coed hags that frequent every small street within a one-
mile radius of Oxford circus. Certainly at the leading
halls one sees a sprinkling of the better sort, far and above
the Australian variety, but at some of the halls—the
Hungerford alias Gatti’s, the Royal, even the Oxford—
you meet a far different type. It is only necessary to turn
out of Regent-street or Leicester-square to find a species
which “M‘G.” hasn’t described. There the beautiful
French woman becomes the horrible caf6 dame, and the
Madonna of Murillo dissolves into the accomplice of the
highly perfumed and gloved bully who volunteers to show
the searcher some of London’s mysteries. The mysteries
usually consist of a stunning blow behind the ear, and then
the Madonna turns out the victim’s pockets. This is in the
West end. In the East one certainly sees the virtuous
confreres of the coster, the handsome vendors of flowers
at almost every main centre, but let us turn down here ;
Commercial-st. it is called. Look at that couple of
women huddling against the electric light post. Need
one ask their calling? Or that fearful-looking female
giantess lolling against the shutters of a shop on the other
side of the way, gin soaked. Down this lane swarms an
army of these London courtesans, French, Swiss, German,
Scandinavian, Spanish. Perhaps these are the remnants
of the handsomely-costumed, beautiful-faced and figured
Lai's, of the West. As to the other portion of “M'G.’s”
article, in which he makes a general charge against the
managers and owners of establishments where girls
work for their livings, I might ask him or your readers
one question : Were there never any places in Australia
similar ? If my memory is correct, there was an
emporium in Melbourne not very many years ago where
the sine qua non of a girl’s engagement was the accept-
ance of the owner’s favors. In London, as in Australia
or elsewhere, there is good and bad in everything, and
“ M‘G.”, albeit an old pressman, has yet much to learn.
* * * *
“ Timbarra ” : For a sensational Melbourne
rag now blotted out I used to “do” the hangings,
and I take strong exception to the cast-iron
way The Bulletin conducted its suspension
of 25/6/’O4. I never yet saw a rope, after
jerking a man’s neck, allow him to hide
his chin in his bosom like a bashful baby.
The man hanged by The Bulletin must have
had a neck made of malleable iron which in
some way got a kink in it. Artists note that next
time they tie a string round a man’s windpipe his
head shouldn’t droop like a shy daisy. The life
extinguisher slips well up round the base of skull
and jaws, preventing the head from wobbling
about.
* » * *
Mr. Quill (say), of the N.S.W. Justice
Department, was recently appointed Clerk of
Petty Sessions at the prosperous town of Bago-
bring, at a salary of £2OO per annum. Shortly
afterwards he received an intimation from the
Lands Office that he had been also appointed
Crown lands agent for that town. Then Mr.
Quill wrote to the Lands Office, asking what
remuneration he was to receive for the additional
duties. In reply, the Lands Department stated
that he would not be paid any extra salary ; but,
in view of his increased responsibility, it had been
decided to place him under security for a further
sum of £SOO. Now Mr. Quill fears that he maybe
appointed to other positions of trust, and maybe
find all his salary absorbed in fidelity premiums.
* * * *
Laurenson, M.P. (Lyttleton, M.L.), states
that the hospital home for inebriates at Waitati
(Otago) isafarce. The patientsare well fed and well
cared for, but they are turned out at the end of
their incarceration really worse than when they
went into the home. There is no system what-
ever ; they simply wander about the precincts
in which they are confined, and put in the time
as best they can. “ The home was simply a “bush
gaol” for inebriates, and out of 70 “prisoners”
treated not one cure had been effected.”
* * * *
Dowie’s circus must be suffering a freeze
in Melbourne, to judge from pastor Voliva’s or
Saliva’s frantic bids for notoriety. The latest
handbill advertising Zion tab. refers to the Method-
ist conference crowd at Rev. Edgar’s church as a
collection of “ murderers, murderesses, w
mongers, harlots, sorcerers, idolators, liars, and
thieves.” Such wind comes from hungry stomachs
onlv.
‘ ‘ Snob’s ” lament :—
Was invited by Sammy Lees, Gaud'Mayor,.t’other night,
“ to meet their Excellencies Lord and Lady Northcote. ”
Being always ready to meet nice people, I went. At 8.3)
found a big crowd of fellow-guests, representing, as the
papers say, “ all classes of the community.” At about
9.30 a crowd of mayoral minions rushed in carrying two
huge ropes, with which they proceeded to herd the guests
into two groups, and soon, down between eac'>
camp, quite safe from the paws of the crowd, the
Northcotes bravely marched to a sort of cubby-hous •.
erected for them, assisted on the way by Sammy Lei ,
his sons, sons-in-law, and women folk. After staring
across an acre of floor at their Exes, for some 10 minutes,
about 90 per cent, of the guests fell on the light refres' -
ments scattered round the room. The other 10 per cent,
began to sidle most unostentatiously out of a guarded door-
way towards a noble supper plainly visible in the vestibul .
They were soon followed by Sammy and his sons, sons-i -
law and women folk, and the Northcotes. The jaw of one
influential ratepayer dropped when I told him they had
gone to supper ; the ham sandwich dropped from his hand
and he turned from his coffee : “ Aren’t we to have sir -
per with ’em, even ? Maria, get yer ’at, I’m going ’ome.”
The evening may have been a great success, but if Same v
Lees reckoned on securing the support of that influential
ratepayer, I’m afraid he has missed the ’bus.
John Westaway, a smart young man,
noted as a swift runner, took a small sum from
till in an East Brunswick pub the other day. A
warrant was issued. Four times the police caught
glimpses of him, and there were wild chases
through railway yards, wood sidings, hotels and
private houses. Westaway always won. The
fifth time he was sighted at the corner of Bruns-
wick and Gertrude-streets, and after a wild pur-
suit all over Fitzroy, he ran blindly into a lane
bounded on three sides by a 7ft. fence, topped
with barbed wire, and was brought up promptly
by a panting policeman and sat on until he!’)
arrived. There’s only one such cul-de-sac in
all Fitzroy, and Westaway didn’t know the
district better than to run into it! It was heart -
breaking luck.
BUT IT’S NOW A NEGLECTED COM-
MANDMENT.
AUNT LETTIA : “Now, Nigel dear, are there
any other Commandments besides the ten I
have just told you ?”
NIGEL (with hazy recollections of a trip to
Sydney): “ Yes, Aunt Letitia; ' Please do
not spit.’”
Bent is still Yic. Railways Minister, Last
week, a circular was issued inviting tenders from
wives of gangers willing to keep gates at level
crossings for Is. a day and the use of a cottage.
They are intended to displace the present occu-
pants—widows of men killed in the service, who
get 4s. a day. The widows can starve or go to
gaol.
A young man called upon a maid ;
“ Come down, my pretty love,” he said.
“I can’t,” said she, “I’m bathing, dear,
And have no proper clothing here.”
“ Oh, slip on something ; aren’t you game?”
She slipped on the step and down she came,
And but for Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure,
The cold she caught would for aye endure.*
The balance-sheet of the Sydney Benevo-
lent Societies’ fifth fete and art union has at last
been published. Receipts were £2254 Is. 6d., and
expenditure just £405 less. Thus for every
£5 10s. raised by the public in subscriptions the
charities got £1; or, in other words, 9Jd. of each
Is. ticket went in expenses.
The most fashionable hairdressing estab-
lishment in Sydney, where six first-class artists
are engaged, is Wild’s, 30 King-street Arcade
(upstairs) George-street entrance. Open from 8.30
to 6.30., Monday to Friday; 8.30 to 1 p.m.
Saturdays. *
LAUGHING EYES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
0, why did you smile on me, Laughing Eyes,
One night by the old, grey sea ?
And why did you bend me your golden head,
And why did you give me your lips so red,
And a beautiful whisper of hope—now dead ?
O, why did you smile on me !
And where have you gone to, Laughing Eyes,
That came like a dream to me ?
And where is that wonderful stream of hair
That rippled around your face so fair,
And the two rose petals, red and rare,
I kissed iman ecstasy ?
And why did you sing me, sweet Laughing Eyes,
A witching old melody ?
And why were your eyes so soft and bright,
And why were your arms so soft and white,
As I held you close on that awe-hushed night
By the side of the quiet grey sea?
X.9.V.
F.H.B.
BABY’S DEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hush the footsteps, hush the voices,
Baby’s dead.
Close the doors and windows lightly,
Let the blinds fall e’er so tightly,
Let the sun not enter brightly,
Baby’s dead.
Little booties on the stairway,
Baby’s dead.
Little garments hang all idly ;
Little toys lie all untid’ly ;
Little tokens spread so widely ;
Baby's dead.
Silence sad all round the house,
Baby’s dead.
No more prattling tongue to cheer us,
No more tiny footsteps near us,
No more little hands to steer us,
Baby’s dead.
Let our sadness speak the message,
Baby’s dead.
Give us hope—to bear our losses,
Give us strength—to bear our crosses,
Give us love—for all else dross is,
Baby’s dead.
VIC.
H.P.
1 FACILE princeps. I
BUCHANAN
1 SEMPER IDEM. (
WHISKY.
STAR
STARCH
BEST
THE
IN
THE
WORLD
Helpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Unvarying
in
Quality.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 14, 1904.
Mi Dear Arini
With influenza is all the land devastated. From
State Government House to the kerosene-tin
cottage of the municipal rat-catcher is the mighty
atom the conqueror. Man sneezes in the trams,
he looks like his own corpse in the streets, he
yaps at his wife in his home, he is quite glad of
the waitress’s sympathy in the cafes, and from his
bed he tells the attending physician that if it were
not for the wife and children he would call
“curtain” on his life this very night.
Gov.-Gen. Northcote has been in Melb. but is
expected back to-day. State Ex.’s Rawson are re-
covering from the influenza epidemic, so you may
imagine that the hours of this week have not
been of the glowing brand, and that we have not
chased them with flying feet. Away back in the
dim past of last week Mayor Lees held a
reception in Sydney Town Hall in honor of their
Excellencies the Northcotes. Town Clerk Nesbitt
acted as chief engineer, and kept it running
smoothly from 8.30 to 11. Several persons were
presented to the guests of honor, and thus for the
time being became personages. This is the first
occasion on which “our chief magistrate” has
entertained a G.-G.
I don’t like to hear anyone speak disrespectfully
of the Sydney cockroach. Some two years ago I
had the pleasure of making his acquaintance, and
a more gentlemanly, thoughtful-looking insect I
never met. It was on a Summer night, returning
very late from a party. I entered the house by
a back staircase, and encountered on the landing
a bright-chestnut, winged creature, with a deli-
cately-jointed neck and white eyes. He
gave me the right of way so deliberately and
with such courtesy that I felt him saying,
“Place aux dames.” He didn’t scurry or scuttle, he
merely stood aside and waited; waving his
antennae apologetically. I put a large chocolate
cream near him, first breaking it so that he could
get at the cream. He didn’t rush it as the humans
do the refreshments at a Government House
garden party, but continued to stand at ease, so
to speak. And his waiting seemed to be eloquent
of expectation—not of chocolate cream but some-
thing intellectual. Somewhat later when I again
looked, he, with two companions, was feasting on
the sweet. Always .after, whilst we stayed in
that house, he and a couple of mates used to wait
for me on the back stairs when I came home late.
Once I pulled a feather out of the trimming of my
theatre coat and stroked the backs of all three
with it. But I declare their demeanor made me
feel as if I had taken the liberty of tickling a trio
of Herbert Spencers.
I had forgotten those cockroaches until a night
or so ago, when, talking to Miss Rose Scott, she
described to me a steamer journey she had had
from Casino. There were cockroaches in her
cabin. She had never been on such friendly terms
with them before, and I was pleased to learn that
their behaviour had interested her as being
thoughtful and dignified. Later I was grumbling
about the week being so “honorably dull” as
Yo-San has it, “ There’s not a vestige of any-
thing to write about,” I bleated. “O, isn’t there,”
murmured Miss Scott sympathetically ; “ wtli, I’ll
let you have my cockroaches.” The cockroach, to
sum up, has acquired a most undeserved ill-repute
through the bad habit of careless cooks serving
him, up with the entree. But does any animal
shine out of its place? Would a cherub be wel-
come in the soup, or the Blessed Damozel herself
be pleasant, brought in afloat in the bread sauce ?
Ip that apparently overdone branch of woman’s
work, dressmaking, there would seem to be still
considerable room at the top. There came to me
quite recently from a M.L. firm a letter asking me
if I could recommend to it a reliable and fashion-
able head-dressmaker.. The salary guaranteed—
Well, many a professional man would welcome it.
It was about twice as. much as the earnings of the
majority of the University degree-d women in our
midst. Inquiries m ade privately must necessarily be
of a limited nature. But I could not meet anyone
willing to accept the offer. One fashionable head
of a fashionable shop told me that there were
young women among her staff who were com-
petent to. fake the billet, but they were so
utterly unambitious that they declined to come out
of the ruck and undertake responsibility. On the
other hand, there were many who would cheerfully
come out of the ruck and apply for the billet of
dressing Queen Alexandra herself, but had, per-
force, to, be kept in the ruck because of incom-
petency. Amongst the thousands of dressmakers
in this State there are possibly only 20 who turn out
artistic, brainy work. For dressmaking requires
more brains and creative talent than most people
think necessary. It is not purely mechanical
work. Witness the number of dressmakers in
this city who have been at the craft for 20 years
or more, and who are still very bad at it, rarely
turning out a frock that is other than common,
when it is not actually slovenly. On the other
hand, some of The Twenty fashion gowns that
might be mentioned under the heading of fine arts.
Many Sydney girls, Somebodies and Anybodies,
are taking lessons in dressmaking. The cult (it is
worthya bettername than craze) started some three
years ago among the Darling and Piper Pointers.
To-day they can make any pretty simple muslin
morning gown and blouses. These they will ex-
hibit to you with great pride, but they continue
to go to one or other of the famous Twenty for
their ball gowns and other first flight frocks. I
said to one of the amateurs the other day
concerning a wrapper of her own creation—
“ That’s all very well, but when will you be
able to make such dresses as this ?” indica-
ting a fifteen-guinea “party frock” lying on the
bed. She frankly confessed “Never”; although
she had all the will in the world and plenty of
brains (in another direction). For a dressmaker
to come out of the rank and file of dressmakers she
must be a skilled workwoman. Ability won’t do.
The world is full of ability that cannot earn tup-
pence a week ; she must have the artist’s eye and
originality. So may she put into her gowns a dis-
tinction of style. I was almost going to write that
she ought to have temperament. If Melba were
not the leading soprano she would probably have
been a distinguished dressmaker.
Four hundred a year is not an uncommon salary
for a dressmaker to earn in this State. So the
trade is worth the attention of women whose
genius would raise it to a profession.
Recently in a smart little tea-room I heard this
Dolly dialogue between two friends : “ Who
made that dress?” nodding at the atrocity her
friend wore. The name was given, and the
questioner exclaimed : “ Good gracious ! I thought
it was the gasman!” “You needn’t criticise,”
was the response, “you pervaded Sydney last
summer in a pink linen that must have been made
in a sleep-walking trance.” Then the Dollies each
asked the waitress for “ one ticket, please.” Both
frocks were turned out from the rooms of two
rather noted firms. ’Prentice hands had practised
on them probably, but the head of the room got
the discredit.
Late Mr. Alexander Oliver, of “ Shelcote,” Neu-
tral Bay, seemed to have had a premonition that
his life was near its close. He was full of vitality,
high spirits, and good health when, a few weeks
before his death, he wrote to his friend Julian
Ashton, asking him to accompany him on a little
cruise in his yacht “Antidote.” “Perhaps,” he
remarked, “ it may be the last jaunt I shall make.”
His family, his work, and his yachting—he cared
little for aught but those three. And he could
toil terribly. Up to the day before his death
he was dictating to his wife the Federal
Sites Reports. On this work, entrusted
to him by the Government, he had been
engaged for three years, getting no gain
but his expenses. Mr. Oliver’s first wife
was an Englishwoman. He married, secondly, Miss
Gowland, an aunt of the beautiful Maud Gowland.
One of his daughters, Blanche, is with the Haw-
trey co. There are two other girls, and the
youngest son, Dailey (a god-son of the late W.8.D.),
is at school in Sydney.
Miss Maud Jeffries is to be married to Mr.
James Osborne in about six weeks’ time. She
will, however, continue her work on the stage. So
will Mr. James, who figures in the cast of the
“Darling of the Gods” as Mr. Curran Dooley, as
well as under his own name. By the way, doesn’t
the wig that Maud wears as Yo-San look like two
shaped pieces cut from a horse-hair sofa? But
what a triumph of Oriental color contrast is the
robe in which she appears when she meets her
“ highly-scented betrothed.” It is a gold textured
fabric with vivid crimson lining. The lady—a
Geisha —who has a life-sized white, champion
Orpington embroidered on the front of her skirt
is a fair fowl. Behind her poultry-show she is
Rose Pendennis.
Mr. Tom Curran, Ministerialist nominee for
Annandale, had, for seven out of his ten years of
House of Commonship, Lord Northcote as a
fellow Commoner. Sir Henry S. Northcote he
was then. Since coming to this State the peer
sent for the old Riverview boy, and the twain had
a chat and a lemon drink.
A Bill to Prohibit the Immigration of Alien
Singers is what the Parliament of the Cold Capital
will pass presently. “Our own correspondents”
are sounding fresh warning notes about the risk
Australian singers incur when they come to
London expecting to make a name that will earn
money. Rich Australians are getting tired of
being tapped for destitute fellow-countrywomen
who have spent their all upon musicians’ fees—
and are now stranded. Mr. Copeland, Agent-
General, is one of the warners. But the Aus-
tralian girl who has a voice, and who is deter-
mined to take it to London, will continue to think
that those warnings are meant for the other
soprano or the other contralto girls, who are
certainly bound for the shores of Failure.
The frightfully high fees that distinguished
teachers exact soon drain the poor Australienne
of the proceeds of her “benefit concert.” Guy
d’Hardelot, for instance, under whom Nora Long
has begun to work, charges a guinea a half-hour’s
lesson. Bouhy, the Castles girls’ teacher, gets the
same, and the de Reskze brothers receive a fee of
two guineas a lesson.
Dr. Baynton, who died at his home, “ The
Magormadine,” Ashfield, last week, had so long
retired from he was almost for-
gotten by the present faculty. Dr. Baynton was
considerably over eighty. He married late in life
a lady very much his junior, who is known to
Australian readers as Barbara Baynton, the
writer of a group of short stories, “Bush Studies.”
Engagement of Lady Constance Mackenzie to
Captain Fitzgerald of the Lancers, a son of
our Nick Fitzgerald, was, it seems after all,
a true bill. But she suddenly changed her
athletic mind and married the Richardson baro-
net. That’s the worst of the athletic mind in a
woman; it is so agile. Even her twin sister,
Countess of Cromarty, knew nothing about the
wedding or the change in the bride’s choice.
Miss Coleman, only daughter of Mr. J. H. Cole-
man (whoever he may be), of Napier, M.L., is
making a marriage that almost deserves to -be
called an alliance. She marries next month a son
of Mr. Walter, of London Times.
Lady Curzon’s father, Mr. Leiter, of Chicago,
is dead. Americans will feel his death less keenly
than they will that of his wife. Mrs, Leiter has;
been the Mrs. Malaprop of New York for years.
After the Durbar she is reported to have said, in
an outburst of enthusiasm, “ I never knew what'
real human greatness was until I saw our MEary
riding on an elephant.”
Lately when a Sydney woman was seen driving:
a motor car on a suburban road, all who saw made
haste to tell the news to those who had not. We-
are awfully behind W.A., it would seem. A
friend tells me that on a road outside Perth she
met six motors puffing along, all driven by
women.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Although Gov. Talbot got off a neatly -
rehearsed speech at the blessing of foundation
slabs in the Old Colonists’ grounds, a network of
wrinkles on the business ’ side of his brain-box
betrayed the strain upon his memory. He was a
troubled-looking speaker, and inclined to drop
into ‘ haw ’ in moments of forgetfulness. Lady Tal-
bot wore a waiting smile that threatend to spread
whenever her husband breathed lengthily at a full-
stop. Had he slipped egregiously I believe the
straight, grey dame would have sniggered out-
right. Probably she had recommended more prac-
tice for the foundation stone remarks, and he,
manlike, had replied that ‘it would be—haw !
all right on the day.’ That would account for
the stiff dame’s amused What-did-I-say ? air.
When the crowd cried a hooray for Mrs. Governor,
she stepped forward, and, in a good middle-register
tone, sent back a ‘ Thank you.’
“ Grey-beards were in force at the Old Colonists’
stone-laying. Two of the greyest and quietest
were the small, lean ancients who have donated
and named the Kronheimer and Franklin cottages.
Beside them quavered and shook old George
Coppin, weighted with winter coats and his 85
years. He grows feeble these cold days, yet
there’s a sensible glow of intelligence in the fine
old face, and he followed the tedious double
ceremony of slab-blessing with close interest. His
cottage contribution was made 33 years ago. It
started the Home. All the inmates of the snug
cottages had their callers. Cheerfulness looked
out of every old face—looked out through the grey
mask of withering age.
“It is the thing now to pet-name the hubby
‘Piggie,’ after Hoggenheimer, in ‘Girl from
Kay’s.’ But the women therein make a slight
mistake. It is before matrimony is thought of,
and while the large, slow German Jew is buying
bonnet-shops and week-ends of revelry that the
Girl dubs him ‘ Piggie.’ Only the costly siren,
rarely the lawful wife, can snub her victim with
impunity.
“The new dame of ‘Stonington’ is steadily
losing her stern trespassers-will-be-prosecuted
manner. The other day, at a big ceremonial, she
thawed markedly, and chatted to her tea-table
neighbors with the allegro tone of the blithesome.
But her dress was demurer than any cloister habit.
A heavy black cloth, with just the suspicion of
white at the collar-top, and a toque of black
beaver carrying a sombre bird’s tail at the side.
When motoring, the Talbotess wears waterproof-
looking things and a weather - seasoned aspect.
She and the blonde niece tuck themselves into
that motor and go spinning along the long
wide roads of the Malvern neighborhood, whole
afternoons.
“ The ’Varsity Hop went off like a prize packet
of crackers. A crowd two-stepped under diffi-
culties. Mrs. Ross-Soden wore the diamonds of
the night, and white-haired Mrs. Albert Miller
defied the elderly canons and sported her neat
grand-motherly figure in a bright and vivid gown
of port-wine red. It was the most garish turn-out
in the gathering. One of the artistic triumphs
was a shimmering toilette in the Neapolitan
violet shade worn by Mrs. J. Harbinson.
“A Victorian lawyer of 70 years and a large
white beard took a trip up the Blue Mountains, a
couple of years ago, with his 25-year-old daughter.
During the stop-over periods they were much
amused by the insistent attempts made to rush
them with the screened verandah and the lovers’
walk and the best bridal chamber. But the sug-
gestion, absurd though it seemed at the time,
stayed with the old man, with the result that he
recently married the dainty-faced young nurse
who, not long ago, pulled him through a bad ill-
ness,
“ The Frenchiest of flutterers are veiling their
delicately-tinted faces at present in a fine silk
mesh with a frequent chenille spot (as large as a
church coin), and finishing the drape at the back
in two pleated fantails. It’s quite the daintiest
fashion ever devised for finishing a clever com-
plexion.
“Miss Madge Crichton is so awfully proper
that several of the risky lines in ‘ The Girl from
Kay’s ’ have been blotted out of her part, or deli-
cately amended. One of the censored lines is ‘ I
live in the moral end ’ of a certain street, in reply
to Piggie’s quest for address particulars. Miss
Crichton didn’t like the word ‘ moral,’ and changed
it to ‘ busy.’ One would have thought that the
objection to one or two risky words or lines would
apply with greater force to the whole of the name
part, which is that of a girl who willingly permits
herself to be mistaken for an improperly-disposed
young person.
“ Toorak girls have been fating ‘ Kissy ’ Farkoa
of late. And now they know that the stage
Maurice is absurdly different to the Maurice of
private life. The Frenchman takes a feminine
interest in crewel work. Girls’ society merely
bores him. The effusive stage-lover has just com-
pleted a cushion-cover in a decorative design of
pansies.
“ Partly because Miss Portia Geach can paint
and partly because she is attractive and studies
the cut of her skirts, fashionables rolled up by the
hundred to her show of cabinet pictures at the
Athenaeum. There’s no doubt that an interesting
personality and a smart hang of skirt are excellent
attractions in an artist. The Tennyson tales told
in color are beautiful things. Miss Geach has
pictured witha harmonious brush some of the poet’s
dreamful suggestions. It’s quite a happy notion.
Miss Portia’s daring decorative portrait of her
younger sister —a yellow-haired girl in a stiff
straight white satin robe posed against an amber
background—possesses a particular charm.
“ Bendigo rioted in its dancing pumps on little
Wales’ birthday. Bevies of Melbourne trippers
swarmed up to the golden centre for the hop, and
Miss Lovie Mueller, at the head of a Conserva-
torium party, waltzed off with the local bath bun.
Of a baker’s dozen debutantes, two sweet, simple
young things in many layers of snowy chiffon
scored top marks, but both talked in the Refer-
endum manner. To add a postscript to the mono-
syllable was to take a leap for life in the unprac-
tised mind of Bendigo’s green girleens.
“Fancy T. P. O’Connor in these days of his
mellow judgment and grey wisdom publishing
under the seductive title of ‘ The Love-Story of
the Week’ the list of dukelets and other Hon.
infants that have arrived in the Big Smoke, up to
date ! One stares at the heading and wonders
what on earth have such infants to do with any
Love Story—unless, indeed, it be a. story too
wicked to be thought of in ducal spheres ? ‘ Tay
Pay ’ used to speak jauntily of ‘ The Babies of the
Week.’ The new heading is a painful alteration.
‘ ‘ The Society divorce to which all had been
looking forward so keenly has been worked out in
camera. As the defendant is the brother of an
exalted Justice’s wife, that is easily explained. The
lady was granted her decree nisi. She is the
second wife to land the giddy rake for costs.
‘ ‘ Mr. Robert Bunney, one of the lucky Austra-
lians to get a canvas nailed prominently on the
Royal Academy wall this year, has just com-
pleted a satisfactory portrait of Mrs. Craigie
(John Oliver Hobbes).
“Mrs. Payne—one of the champion tailors of
Toorak —has a charming Bananaland girl in tow.
She is Muriel Rich, and for once a name occurs
that is not an irony.
“ Half the swagger dames have gone to extreme
pains to work up showy sets for St. Vincent’s ball
this week. Mrs. Payne is expected to take the
cake with a flock of ohic Misses and a batch of the
Euryalus boys.
“Parson Sugden, the genial dilettante warden
of Queen’s College, University, is appointed
musical critic on the Akgus in place of Carlyle
Smythe, who, owing to friction with the manage-
ment, has seceded from that decorous daily.
“ An Australian doctor with a leaning towards
politics must wish that woman in his State had the
vote. He’s popular with his lady-patients, who,
while extolling his skill, hint indulgently at his
‘dreadfulness.’ Said ‘dreadfulness’ seems to lie
partly in his ivy-like arm, which, so ’tis said, has
a tendency to creep instinctively round the nearest
female prop available, be it sufferer or sufferer’s
companion. Another pretty touch of professional
‘ manner ’ ascribed to the clever physician is his
practice of addressing the sex in general as ‘dear.’
All just part of the healing technique, of course,
seeing that Medic us is fortunate enough to possess
a young and handsome wife of his own.
But we women always do confess to a soft
spot for a man who contrives to make our pleasure
fit in with his business. Another of the kind
doctor’s technicalities is his way of summing-up
new patients, who, as they palpitatingly precede
him to his consulting-room, take courage as they
hear him murmur as the result of his bird’s-eye view
from the rear: 1 Sweet, self-sacrificing little soul!
Wants rest and recreation ! ’
“ Women who lived in Australia in the rough,
early times laugh when their daughters say, ‘lt
was all very well for you, mother. Men could
afford to marry in your day.’ These she-pioneers
aver that Dad and his fellows would have been
miserable bachelors to this very hour had women
demanded the conveniences and luxuries exacted
by modern wives. Not that they were boors,
those girls of yesterday. Most of them had a
piano, and when they settled down anywhere the
piano-case, with an inserted shelf, did for a
ldtchen-dresser. Packing-cases, with one end set
neatly on hinges for a door, and inside shelves,
served, when neatly covered with chintz, as a
sideboard, or a cupboard for cbina, linen or jam.
The daughter of an English county family, now
stately and white-haired, tells that in her early
Australian days, she never thought of buying
buckets. Kerosene-tins with smooth wire-handles
served her turn. Her wardrobes were cretonne
bowers, draped on deal structures of her husband’s
manufacture. Her dressing-table, shaped out of a
packing-case, she covered with pale-blue glazed-
lining, veiled with snowy dotted-muslin. Pin-
cushions, sachets, spreads, were all to match and
the whole room looked so chic, that when she,
turned out of it to let one of the earl y Governors
spend a night in it, his Ex. said next morning that
he ‘ slept in Paradise and woke in Paris ! ’
‘ ‘ The ‘ Plevna ’ Ryans are notified that Lord
and Lady Charles Scott are booking their pas-
sages for these parts about October. Dr. Ryan
and the coming matron are brother and sister.
Mrs. Ellis Rowan, the flower-painter, is another
sister.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
CO Mp
GORDON
GIN
DRY
o'*
?o//
d'f*
St
sy
THE LADIES'
MASSAGE
SOAP
s
a*
PURE
FRAGRANT
REFRESHING
BEAUTY IS POWER.
“VALAZE,” Dr. Lykuski’s RUSSIAN SKIN FOOD,
will make you beautiful. It is absolutely the best skin
cleanser, guaranteed to remove freckles, tan sunburn,
wrinkles, acne, blackheads, all skin impurities ; restores
flabby muscles and starved tissues. Valaze will improve the
worst skin in one month. Try one jar, and see for yourself.
NELLIE STEWART SAYS : “ Have used skin prepara-
tions from America, London, Paris ; paid fabulous prices
for some, but nothing has proved half as beneficial as the
Russian Skin Food, Valaze. It is absolutely the very best
skin preparation I ever used. Can never praise it
enough.” Price 3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d. extra. Guide
to Beauty, 3d., obtainable from Washington Soul and Co.,
160 Pitt-st., Co-Operative Civil Service Society, Sydney.
Leading Chemists, or direct from Mdlle. Helena
Rubinstein, 243 Collins St., Melbourne.*-
Baumann's New Cafe.
Handsomest and
Host Up-to-date
in Australia. . .
Cuisine and Service
II
Perfect.
Ladies’ and . . .
Gentlemen’s . . .
Dining Rooms. .
Moderate Charges.
‘ “CEAtfEMETTES*
IjoU Arel the Ideal Fabrics
RAINCOATSo
1
HD
BA‘
jeftcxtee'
*
O THE MOST PERFECT
FITTING CORSETS


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The father of Brisbane’s new Anglican
Bishop was N.S.W.’s first Premier under Respon-
sible Government.
Things went very badly with the Ballarat
Methodies Victorian elections day. Kirton, Grose,
and David Ham, all local preachers, went down.
Governor Chermside (Q.)..has got into hot
water for going a-fishing to Tweed Heads on a
Sunday. But he .got 41 big fish, which is some
compensation.
They say of one Sydney doctor that' if
he is not put on his trial for an illegal operation
once in a month he celebrates the immunity with
a high festival.
Charles Todd, Adelaide’s Deputy-Post-
master-General, will be 78 on July 6th, and has
been in the Government service 60 years. Said
that he will shortly retire.
In the Westralian Assembly, which has
just been snuffed out, Premier Jimmy was the
only practising lawyer. But four or five more are
now trying hard to join him.
The centenary of the birth of Cobden, the
Freetrade Joss, recalls the fact that a brother,
over half a century ago, kept an inn near Molong
(N.S.W.), the house known as Vale Head.
Kingston, K.C., has been recuperating in
Adelaide, and, although still far from well, he is
slowly improving. It will be long, however, be-
fore he can again stand the wear and tear of
politics.
Both Carruthers and Reid were sentenced
at Sydney last week for stealing ducks from the
N.S.W. Govt. But the fact has, unfortunately,
no bearing on the Federal or. State ’ political
situation.
David Gaunson, who has just returned to
the Vic Assembly after a long absence, fathered
some gritty sayings 15 years or so ago. “ Coalition
is corruption said softly ” was one of them. It
seems suitable to this day.
Prendergast, the new leader of the Vic.
Parliamentary Labor party, is a compositor, as
Watson also is. M‘Gowen, of N.S.W., is a boiler-
maker ; Tom Price, of S. Aus„ a stone-worker;
Kerr, of Queensland, a storekeeper; Hastie, of
Westralia, a miner.
N.S.W. ex-Premier John See started life as
a follower of one of “ the great natural industries,”
maize-growing, but a flood destroyed his crop and
he took to shipping and other things, which, in
the eyes of the foreign-trader, are unnatural to
the Australian, and waxed fat thereafter.
HIS GILLS , THE TASMANIAN FYSH.
One candidate for N.S.W. State Parlia-
ment has his hands full. He is fighting a cut-
throat euchre game for his seat, is filing counter-
pleas in a suit for breach of promise, and is
writing amatory letters to a new sweetheart.
Likewise he is endeavoring to run his private
business. y
Italian papers have lately been printing a
remarkable story of an Italian girl who re-
turned to that country after having worked for
just over two years in the Great Fingall mine,
Westralia. The girl says she wore a false beard
the whole time, lived in a tent, and saved up £lOO,
which she took back to her family.
A gentle hint to his flock was given by
/v!t V t -^ awson ‘1 , h°mas on his arrival at Gisborne
* )•' rom Sydney, to assume charge of the
Anglican church there. In an interview one
paper stated : ‘ ‘ The new minister is not married,
but expects to be able to obtain leave shortly to
return to Sydney and wed the lady of his choice.”
George Michael Prendergast, the new
leader of the Victorian Labor party, is a printer
by trade, and worked on Sydney Daily Tele-
graph in the old days. He has also worked in
the GoYernment printing offices of N.S. Wales
and Victoria. From both of those places he was
retired for “agitating.” Prendergast is a great
worker and reader. Few men in the House take
de tibuble he does to get to the heart of every
\ , at ] ; s brought in. When he speaks it is
with ins whole body; he writhes, twists, jumps
a !?d bends about, with a flow of words at about
a2(j a minute.
A former well-known Maori pro-
phet, Himiona te Orenui, died lately
near Tauranga. Himiona played just the
same game as Elijah 11. He once fore-
told another Tarawera eruption. A
comet came and that was a great sign.
Himiona got the Maoris together and
set them praying hard. When the erup-
tion didn’t erupt Himiona explained that
the prayers had succeeded, but the fact
of the comet’s arrival showed what a
close shave they had. Also, he remarked,
they ought to think themselves darned
lucky to have a prophet who knew what
was coming and could set them praying
in the nick of time.
One ex-member of the House of
48 Rich Landlords, pervading a country
province at the late Vic. elections, opened
his mouth too wide. He was on the
woman-suffrage topic : —“ Woman’s work
lies at home; except for a few years in
youth, when she may work in a factory,
she takes little part in the world’s work ;
she doesn’t grow wheat or wool or raise
cattle she produces nothing.” Just
there a big, gaunt, white-haired, woman
stood up, her four stalwart sons beside
her. “Do you call them nothing?” she
demanded fiercely; “ but I’d be ashamed
of producing the likes of you.” Then
she marched out, and with her, for the
story spread, went most of the candidate’s
chances.
Ballarat’s Rechabite Mayor (Pearse), re-
miniscing the other night, informed hia audience
that it might interest them to know that, Recha-
bite and Mayor as he was, he had once washed
out the barrels in a brewery. It was possibly
what he found in the barrel, after the beer was
gone, that put him off booze for the rest of his
life.
Late Harry Newman suffered from an
aneurism of the aorta brought on through being
thrown and dragged round the Orange waterworks
by two ponies that had bolted with his buggy.
He was born at Nantes (France), and married
three times. He had no issue by his first wife,
but 10 children by the two other wives, who were
sisters.
A gem from the House of Reps, (debating
the use of military titles in the civil service) :
Mr. King O’Malley (Tas.) said the tendency of Australia
was to inaugurate something like that in existence in the
United States, where even the hangman of Georgia was a
colonel.
Mr. Spence (N.S.W.) : What were you called ?
Mr. King O’Malley : My title was simply King. (Pro-
longed laughter.)
Geo. Fisher, M.H.R., has been released
from Waitati Inebriates Home considerably
before his time. Last time he was so treated,
under similar circumstances, it was to join the
famous Parliamentary picnic which wrestled with
chess, photography, and dusky belles smeared
with whale oil in the seas that wash against Louis
Becke’s reef and palm.
G. D. M'Cormick (Vic.), recently retired
P.M., aged 70, distinguished himself when a
young man by winning for his ma-in-law elect an
equity suit in which the I. Y.U. station was con-
cerned, though he had against him three leading
lights of the Equity Bar, all of whom afterwards
became Supreme Court judges (Wilberforce
Stephen, Holroyd, and Webb).
“Melb.”: Speaker Holder is the best I
ever saw (you don’t hear Speakers much). Lynx-
like in watching, he is imperial in his sway. He
only oils the machine when absolutely necessary ;
there must be a palpable hitch. I could see him
the other day, with Forrest speaking, give little
starts, and could almost perceive the “No matter ’
in the glass beehive of his mind.
The creaking bishop creaks long. Dr.
Hobhouse, who first wore the gaiters in Nelson
(M.L.) but became an invalid in 1864 and, after
two years’ struggle, resigned and returned to
England, died a few weeks back—just 40 years
after he broke down. He was married a second
time in the interval, and that may have propped
up his declining half-century or so.
Chief Justice Stone, of Westralia, is off on
a six months’ trip to the Cold Country, leaving
the whole of the work of the Supreme Court in
the hands of Justices Parker and the recently
imported M‘Millan. Justice Burnside fell sick
immediately after his appointment, and has been
away for over a year. Justice Parker was also laid
out for half a year just after his swearing-in, and
is now far from strong. And Justices Hensman
and Moorhead have died within three years. The
judicial business is unhealthy in the West.
President Roosevelt on the German
Emperor:—
If he had been born an American citizen, on-however
low a social scale, he would have come to be boss of his
ward.
Talk of praising a man with faint damns !
S. Australia has still two residents who
were on hand when Colonel Light landed to lay
out the city of Adelaide. One of them, Mr.
Hodges, was the colonel-surveyor’s servant.
C. C. Kingston’s father was Light’s assistant.
ALAS, YES.
THOMSON: “ Money talks, you know.” JOHNSON : “Yes, I know; I married money!”
Suggested that the name of lately-deceased
Oliver should be perpetuated by naming the
Federal capital “Oliver.’' Oliver certainly
served N.S.W. faithfully, and in his courageous
and able reports on the Federal capital question
did Australia great benefit; and “ Oliver” is near
enough to Cromwell to have a sympathetic link
with the Commonwealth. Still the honor pro-
posed is too great ; but there should be an Oliver
Avenue in the Federal city.
Old John Taylor, whose Black Ball line
brought thousands of immigrants to Queensland
during its immigrant boom, died lately in London.
John reckoned that a flood of immigrants meant
higher land values and unearned increment for
somebody, so he put most of the profits he made
out of the Queensland trade into land; and
Taylor’s Range, not far from Brisbane, was
named after its absentee owner.
“ Vic. ”: Reggy Talbot and wife are exactly
such a couple as Jane Austen or Charlotte Yonge
would exult in depicting as Lord and Lady Van-
deleur, or Vavasour, or Vyvyan. Yet, with all
the stamp of Vere de Vere, they have not a trace
of an aristocratic morgue. They are English, you
know, and that’s all. You do not know whether
to say that, in his beautifully refined natural
courtesy, Talbot is Don Quixote or Colonel New-
come.
One of the most conspicuous figures on
Collins-street Block during the last month or so,
most magnificently tailored, most prodigal of cuff
and collar, and most profuse of cash, is the youth-
ful son of an influential and fairly well-gilded
Geelong family who, less than three years ago,
was given six years’ hard labor, at the instance of
a grateful Westralian Government, whom he had
victimised as paymaster in an important depart-
ment. How the youth comes to be lording it on
the Melbourne Block and flashing about in han-
soms with visions, while three years of his sentence
remain unserved, is one of the piquant mysteries
of Westralian administration.
S. Australia has just lost its best-known
journalist, Whitmore Carr. He used to be
on the Register staff ; then Mammon called, and
he went on the Stock Exchange. But when the
Argus lost “Augur” Chapman, “Terlinga”
Cook was taken from the Register and made
sporting editor of the Melb. paper, and Carr was
induced to take Cook’s place as Register sporting
chief. But he was allowed to keep his Stock
Exchange business, and for two or three years
East has been both chairman of the Adelaide
took Exchange and sporting editor. Now,
having added some other cares to his pack, he has
given up the presswork entirely.
Among recent retirements from N.S.W.
Public Service is Francis Sceusa, who has had a
notable career. Originally a member of the Young
Italy Socialist Party, he was exiled, with the fear
of execution before him if he returned. Coming
to N.S.W., he won a position in the Survey Dept,
of the Public Works. In 1893 Sceusa, obtaining
leave of absence, attended the Zurich Internationl
Socialist Conference and visited Italy, where he
had great receptions and was not arrested. Ob-
jection was raised <to a N.S.W. civil servant put-
ting in a holiday in such fashion, but bluff old
Copeland swept it aside with a minute
Mr. S. seems to me to be a Socialist, not an anarchist.
And as Christ was, in my opinion, the first Socialist, I
don’t see why a servant of a Christian state should not
follow in the footsteps of his Master, and devote his spare
time in furthering-His cause. As there is nothing against :
him, as far as the performance of his official duties are con- *
cerned, let him have all the good things which may accrue
to him.
Willy Gaunson contributes another £5O to
the Victorian consolidated revenue. This intrepid
vote-splitter has contributed in £5O forfeits enough
to have bought him an annuity of £3O. His
brother, David Gaunson, returns to the Legisla-
tive Assembly after many years of absence. The
father of the Gaunsons was a grocer in a big way
of business in George-street, Sydney.
Dandv Kellv in the House of Rons bad
, -uanay iveiiy, m tne House oriteps., liaa
been predicting all sorts of evils as the outcome of
the Arbitration Act. Minister Hughes in reply :
“ Evidently the mantle of Elijah has fallen on the
bon. gentleman—or was it Elisha ? —no, it must be
Elijah, because it was Elijah who was carried
away in a chariot of fire.” Which allusion to
Kelly’s motor car —on which he got into Parlia-
ment —tickled the House.
LATE ELIZABETH JANE PHILLIPS,
One of the Oldest of Australian Colonists.
Photo, by The Crown Studios, Sydney.
The little town of Longford (Tas.) boasts a
record. There died there recently, at the age of
100 years, one Samuel Buttery. Recently four
residents of the same district died, aged respec-
tively 100, 93, 87, and 73, and there still remains
onejsentenarian. Longford is known as the Gar-
den of Tasmania, and its Anglican church boasts
a Communion service in gold, the gift of William
IV. of British very pious memory.
RHEUMATICS.
Rheumatism is a disease of the blood. Every doctor admits that. When the blood is weak, the kidneys,
liver and other organs have not strength to do their work of keeping the system pure—and then the blood
soon becomes loaded with impurities that breed disease, poison and pain. And the only way these painful
diseases can be cured for good is to drive the poison out of your blood with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People.
The most painful of all the impurities in the blood is uric acid. This crippling poison inflames the joints,
stiffens the muscles, and irritates the nerves. Then your doctor tells you you have Rheumatism. You may
think the pains are caused by the cold wet Winter—but Winter only starts them going. The real cause is
rooted in the blood—and it must be rooted out with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
“I landed in Australia 42 years ago,” said Mr. Phillip King, Avoca, Hackett Road, Woollahra, Sydney, “and started
work in Victoria on the Ballarat Diggings. I was a bit run-down. Then the hard living, the damp and the exposure brought
on the very worst Rheumatism a man could have. Dreadful gnawing pains first came in my legs and arms, and then spread
all over my body. All my muscles were drawn hard and tight with the pain. Some days I couldn’t work at’ all. My appetite
failed, and I grew wretchedly thin. The pain was slowly crippling me and dragging every bit of strength from me. I had
Hospital treatment and all kinds of medicines and liniments—but it was only time and money wasted. Every day found me
worse. I couldn’t sleep with my sufferings. I was too miserable for words when I heard that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People cured Rheumatism for good by actually making new blood. I determined to give them a fa’r trial—but I took over
three boxes before I felt much better. My appetite picked up wonderfully, but that was all I noticed. After that I got alom>-
capitally. Every day I gained in strength. The aching burning pains grew less and the stiffness went out of mv muscles.
Soon my suffering stopped so that I slept soundly, at night. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills swept all the painful poison out of my
blood. At last every trace of Rheumatism left me and I stood a cured man. With all my heart I recommend Dr Williams’
Pink Pills to all who suffer from Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia or other Winter pains.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, 2s. 9d. per box. From Storekeepers and Chemists.
n


Aboriginalities.
“Spring” tells of a fight between a man
and albatrosses :
While a steamer to Maoriland was going at 13 knots, a
man jumped overboard. As soon as he struck the water
his madness left him and he swam vigorously after the
vessel. A flock of albatrosses which had been foraging in
the wake swooped down upon him. The excited passen-
gers saw him striking at them and occasionally diving in
terror. At the cry of “ Man overboard ! ” the chief officer
had manned a boat, which capsized as soon as it touched
the water. The crew clung to the upturned boat for
their lives, and the centre of excitement was transferred
from the suicide to them. The steamer still went ahead.
Orders had been given to stop the engines, but, as in the
case of the Elingamite, they had been firmly wedged to
prevent vibration—a common but dangerous practice.
Immediately the half-drowned crew were hauled on board
they rushed for the other boat, were safely lowered, and
with cheers from the passengers, bent oars towards a
distant swarm of screaming albatrosses. The steamer,
whose engines had at last been stopped, then turned and
followed. Where the birds were thickest they found the
body floating. To protect his face the man had drawn his
coat-collar up till only the top of his head was exposed.
One of his eyes had be< n gouged out, and there were beak
marks on his cheeks. He was quite dead.
WRESTLER MERZOUK AND HIS FRENCH
MANAGER TRAINER.
Photo, by Rembrandt Studio, Adams’ Chambers, George-st., Sydney.
“A.” : I have seen many brands of
“shout” in different parts of Australia —the
“ Jimmy Woodser,” peculiar to Sydney ; a China-
man “ doing in ” for all hands on the goldfields;
the blackfellow “sparkling up "for a white man
at Walgett; a bullock-driver in Q. inviting the
whole township to come along; to say nothing of
the barmaid in the west who provides free drink
and sandwiches for the Government Johnnies
when the boss isn’t looking. But the most pitiful of
all was the shout of necessity which I witnessed at
Bourke. The temperature was 119 deg.. A num-
ber of deadbeats and stony-brokers were lounging
on the verandah of the Jolly Waggoner, with
their tongues hanging out. They looked up and
down the street, and each prayed to the dead-
beats’ Joss to send along someone who would
invite them to partake of the biggest beer the
publican could afford for 6d. In vain. At last,
with one accord they rose up, and awakened a
drunk who was lying with his head hanging over
the edge of the verandah. In a body they assisted
him into the bar, against which they propped him
up, and called for drinks. The dazed drunk, with
a bit of assistance, fumbled out some money and
paid cheerfully.
* * * *
“ Yarrum ” : Truly, Chinamen and other
scrubbers are strong in this White Australia of
ours! Travelled, a little while ago, between
stations on the Northern line (N.S.W.). Had
first-class carriage, which held, besides myself,
three ladies and a Chow. Happened to have slight
acquaintance with one of the girls, and got into
general conversation with them. The Agony
tried to chip in about Sunday school, but was not
noticed any more than if he’d been a button on
the seat—they were not missionary women, by a
long way. After a bit, he offered a bag of bananas,
gripped in a yellow hand, but nobody noticed the
vegetables particularly. He told us he was travel-
ling to “ Cleansland.” I told him that if he were
travelling to Confucius it didn’t interest us. The
Tartar was not deterred —just sat back with an
expansive leer on his alleged countenance. His
next move was to take from his dirty Panama part
of a newspaper that smelt like an old Dead Bird,
and hold the thing towards me, asking if I cared
to “lead.” This was the last straw. When the
ladies got to their destination I left the carriage,
for fear I should slay the object in cold blood.
Looked for another first-class carriage, but they
all contained similar animals. Made for a second-
class, and was met at the door of it by a Hindoo
hawker with a bundle. Met two Syrians in
another second-class, with an open tin of sardines
and a loaf of bread between them. Then I thought
about White Australia.
* • • •
“ Westerner ” : The experience
of “ Hiphen” (8., 24/3/’O4) forcibly re-
calls an adventure I had when I
decided to go in for bee-keeping. A
relative living some miles distant made
me a present of a swarm of bees, and
arranged to hand same to me on the
following Saturday evening. Accom-
panied by an unwise friend, I repaired
to said relative’s place, and was pre-
sented with the bees in a flimsy candle-
box. There were cracks in the box,
and the bees stepped out and in as
they pleased. They didn’t appear to
be sociable. We borrowed a long
clothes prop and hung the bee-box in
the centre. People who saw us carry-
ing it, and who noted the careful way
we kept at the ends of the pole,
probably thought we were two anarch-
ists carrying home a bomb. All went
well until we were in the main street
of the town ; then the clothes prop
broke in two, and the box dropped
and burst, and the jolted bees stepped
out. We fled, and watched from a
safe distance. A couple of drunks
happened along and stopped at the
corner to argue a point, when all of a
sudden they both started to yell and
curse like old Dowie at a revival meet-
ing. “What’s up?” shouted everyone,
and the mob rushed from all points of
the compass. Those right in the thick
of it, who were first on the scene, knew
what was up and franti -idly attempted
to hew their way out, witli the result
that several fights took place. Then
everyone fought everyone else, and the
police arrived on the scene, and an ex-
cited individual rang the alarm and
summoned the fire brigade, and twenty-
three pairs of dogs fought to a finish.
If the bee would stick to honey-getting he
would be all right, but when he takes to raging
up and down a busy street he Is too exciting by
far.
* * * *
“ Periwinkle ” : In the Echuca (Vic.) dis-
trict, right over to the Deform regions around
Kyabram, the paddocks are riddled with mice-
holes, the rodents having probably been attracted
thereabouts by the waste grain lying round after
last boisterous harvest. The houses also are over-
run with the sharp-toothed destroyers. Fancy
the presence of these vermin building their nests a
few inches under-ground contradicts the forecast
for winter rains. Snakes are being ploughed up
by dozens, having taken up their hibernating
quarters less than a foot under the soil—to be
ready for the next mice-harvest probably ! Some
of the mice aforesaid are different from any
species I have yet seen, having snouts broadened
out like miniature hippopotami.
* • • «
“A.P.R.” : Why do our authors always
pessimize about our heat, ignoring the four
months of infernally cold weather that visit us
yearly ? It seems that the spectral crow never
chews the bleached wind-pipe of the dead swag-
man on a frosty morning; the occasion must be
“a fierce dusty day, when the red sand-hills
glisten,” &c., &c. Writer has combated cold so
often out-back that he would like, for variety, to
read of the insane drover who, after laughing a
sad, mournful laugh, cut his throat with a streak
of frozen whisky.
“ Bon ” : Happened into a Port Melbourne
bar-parlor to find it in the possession of the cook
of a Yankee wind-jammer and some other Dagoes.
Cooky-Dago boasted that he was the proud pro-
prietor of a pug who could “ killa tha rat, yes, in
tha time so quick.” Cocky and his Dago mates
talked dollars till a local sport arrived on
the scene. The latter allowed that he
owned an animal that would see
the cook’s animal and go
one better. Stakes were
at once deposited, and
the challenger departed to
get his beastie, returning
shortly carrying a basket.
Asked as to his represen-
tative he tapped his parcel
saying that he was quite
well, thank you, but com-
pany scared him. The
Dago dog, midst a chorus
of “carambas,”
dealt with his
dozen rats in
great style, the
while his time
was carefully
clocked. The
Dagos danced
deliriously till an
argument arose
as to how they
would spend the
stake, the winning"
of which they looked
on as a moral. The
fight which followed was
interesting, but it came
to a full stop when the local
man opened his basket and
took from thence a monkey—
a miserable little Madagascar
monkey about the size of a
pound of cheese. Didn’t he
know his business though.
He hopped up to his owner
and took from him a young
baseball club. The rats were
let loose, the umpire yelled
“Go,” and he went. Talk
about a cyclone and a Bent
locomotive—he beat them
both, and the Dago dog, too.
Just a dozen lightning leaps
and his owner was asking
the Dagos to name their
drinks. The sailors tried hard
to buy “Jacko,” but money
wouldn’t do it. The cook after-
wards spent a whole week trying to
steal him, but merely was bitten for his pains.
A w vat , * TI7 V * . * ...
A Far West (N.S.W.) mystery looks like
being cleared up. About a couple of years ago,
while two policemen were bringing three prisoners
and one lunatic from Wilcannia to somewhere
where it wouldn’t cost quite as much to keep
them, the lunatic got away, and while the con-
stables were getting him out of the mulga the
prisoners lit out for parts unknown. Two of them
were caught, but the third seemed to have
vanished off the face of the earth; and as the
place where he disappeared was a couple of
hundred miles from anywhere in particular, the
official explanation was that he had died of thirst
and been covered by drifting sand. Now, how-
i . 6 j • IX ’.. j
e Y® r ’ ke seems to have turned up m Maonland,
where he has got into more trouble and is serving
three years’ gaol; anyway, he says he is the man,
and his description tallies with that of the person
whose bones were supposed to be the other side of
Cobar
’
* • * •
“Larrikin” : Out on the Flinders there
•„i■i i _• .
is a station worked mainly by niggers ; gins
especially, as they are very handy amongst the
stock. borne of the gins have got civilisation
extensively. I noticed that most of them had
well-cut dresses and jackets, and was told some
had good banking-accounts and got their store
clothe., from Brisbane. Notice! casually th.t
the son of the owner of the next station woie
no boots and had for coat a flour bag with slits for
the arm-holes,
THE LUNCH ROOM LOCUST.
SIXPENNY FEEDER (who has eaten all the free
accessories) : “ You won't mind if I leave the
table , will you !”
MR. COMELATE : “ Did you expect to take that,
too)”
S. Australia starts this wheat season
gloomily. Usually the early rains don’t give
much worry; it is the late rams that won’t come.
But this year the early rains have failed in some
districts, and very little
of the seed has ger-
minated there.
THE PRODUCTS OF CIVILISATION.
“ How can you say that times hare not improved,
Bill! An age that has mastered the enigma
of evolution and infectious diseases, and that
piles up such marvels as Rontgen rays, wire-
less telegraphy, and radium, one on top of
another, must be no slouch of a time.”
About Dutchy’s claim :
Choosing the drier end of a log, the Warden took his
seat to hold his alfresco court, and told Trooper Casey to
call the complainant.
An excited, red-faced German mounted the mullock-
heap. “De gomblainand—dat vos me ! Ven I hear speak
of dis roosh, I gomes here-to in de moonlight und I make
von rount hole, dree footh vide. I not know how te p
I vos a leedle dronk. I go vay und schleep, und yen I
comes pack Yim und Pat Ryan hav buddoned ir j hole,
und vos geddin’ ver goot brosbegts.”
Smiling triumphantly at the clay-stained audience, Jim
Ryan doffed his hat and spake.
“Dutchy sez the hole he shtarted was tree fut in
dynameter. Now, will yer Wushup hev ours measured?”
Trooper Casey measured, and found the shaft was 4ft.
by 2ft. The Court sniffed and called for its buggy ;
remarking to Casey that the German must have been
much more than a “ leedle dronk.”
Casey rode out to the rush next morning and drank a
lot of whisky at the Ryan Bros.’ claim.
“ If Dutchy wasn’t dramin’,” he said, “ fwhere the divil
is his hole, at-all at-all ? ”
Jim Ryan glanced at his brother, and tossed a clod on
to the mullock-heap.
“ Ye ain’t the wan to shplit on ould frinds, Casey—it’s
undher that."
GOOD-BYE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On shining sands the soft waves beat, the sea-birds wheel
and cry,
The ruby and the sapphire meet in yonder sunset sky ;
The fading hours of day are fleet—good-bye, sweetheart,
good-bye.
Too soon has sped the golden noon ; like ghosts the brief
hours fly ;
The purple even gathers soon, where east the shadows
lie ;
Now dimly glows the great, red moon—good-bye, sweet-
heart, good-bye.
The morning winds were sweet as May, when the gold
sun was high ;
The waters sparkled in the bay, Love smiled as he passed
by-
And we have had our little day—good-bye, sweetheart,
good-bye.
For ne’er again with rosy wings, as the dull years drag
by,
Love comes to light the heart of things. The slow night-
breezes sigh,
A long farewell the water sings—good-bye, sweetheart
good-bye.
VIC.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
“HIS NAME IS GEORGE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“So yer wantin’ a look at ‘ George Reid,’
Well, come alonger me this way ;
'E’s the queerest ole bull o’ 'is breed—
Just yer watch ’im, ’e’s good as a play.
“ Yes, that’s 'im a-moochin’ thro’ the gums,
Look, a-swishin’ wi’ ’is tail like mad ;
Now ’e ’as ’is ’ead down, ’ere 'e comes—
No, ’e’s turnin’, foolin’ us, begad.
“ Bin like it since the day ’e was born—
Yer can never know what’s in ’is mind ;
Maybe yer wonderin’ where ’e’s gorn
When ’e comes wi’ a rush from behind !
“ Now, sometimes ’e lays low as a mouse—
P’raps ’ides in the scrub all the day ;
Then ’e comes an’ ’e bails up the ’ouse
Till yer give ’im ’is bundle o’ ’ay.
“ We’ve ’ad ’im since a bit o’ a calf,
’E got monnikered * George ’ from the
jump;
An’ so we, on 'is namesake’s behalf,
’Ad ’im branded Y.N. on the rump.”
MALCOLM MELVIN.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
Most central, largest,
most comfortable, and
best appointed hotel
In Australasia.
Lounge Bar.
Winter Garden.
72‘
NIGHT STAFF regularly
patrols the building. . . .
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Every possible atten-
tion for the comfort
and safety of visitors.
DAVID STORER & SONS’ *" Ttirefl Colora - BLACK< BED anti BL^
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE w ° ol -
- Marking
TATTOO OIL
Rbqistbrbd
Tradb
Mark.
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. KEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
r , 13
m?
BY'ADNMN l MfN I
a
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS.
A Novel little Charm
consisting of a gold mounted 3d. piece with
motto, “Keep fie and Never Go Broke,”
enamelled as Illustrated. 255. post free
to any address in the Commonwealth
REGISTERED*
I3HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY,AT BRISBANEB-LONDON


“ The Prooshan’s ” friend, Brown,
meets a Chinaman :
The worst man to meet when horse hunting is a China,
man. Brown recently lost his mare, and, being anxious
to make the next town in time to ballot for a bit of avail-
able land, started off on foot with the riding gear on his
head, in hopes of finding her poked into some corner on
the way. Presently he met Jimmy Ah Sin and began
hopefully.,; ®
f : /Jimmy. You see my mare longa road ? ”
I goo day, Mishita Blown. You lookee horsee ? ”
‘' * j want my mare. You see him ? ”
“OU you looshem mare. Me sabee. One whi hine
foot—ketchem shtar longa foiled ? ”
“ Yes, yes. Where you see ? ”
“Ketchem welly shore back before. Carn culem ? Me
sabee.
“ Where the jumpin’ h did you see the mare ?Me
wantem go land office ketchem land wellv quick.”
_ “ °}}» yase, Mishita Blown, me arnershetand welly goot.
You likee go land offishee shelectem lan’ welly early
Looshem httee blown mare, ketchem whi hine foot—
littee, littee baby fo (foal) shtar longa foiled—before you
buy longa Lilely Bob (Bob Riley) ten pong. Yase, you
likee go welly early. Shelectem lan’ welly hully Oh
yase. Me no see.” ’
* * * *
Ihe travelling stock and grass problem
which started quite accidentally in a recent issue
grows interesting. For instance, this is “Peri-
winkle on the subject:—
Within half-an-hour of getting my Bulletin (2/6/’O4)
showed C.C. s par. re dawdling drovers to four local
cow and sbeep toilers, and they quite forgot the knock-
thPv hpM e Jn Candl f ate the poll the day before, while
Stv. d S beir sides and roared. “ Fillin’ up their mob
vnth grass? one-eyed Bill asked, while no magpie ever
put more query into a sidelong look—“ Where the h—l is
there any grass just now!” I told him “0.0.” was a
man of authority whose remarks about grass were not to
off mS d - Wel !’” he say8 > “I had S a quid knocked
because I got home a day after the
nrivifJn ? h dawdling and the boss had to sell
av , a ? ss - Wlthin a week later!” Ginger
! aa L , Da / Vdhf \ a ad y ery fine when the road is long, and
SfmrnwTn 1 '- * } owned stock rd truck every hide.”
. didn t know but a bit o’ thievin’ didn’t pay
saiH ,p S who seeme d up to the game,
d 1S ? t grass nowadays that’s to be prigged—
/ a kaystack or so, and the sooner 3 r ou get along
for vJ2 Ur tracks after that transaction the better
sffitfln^HL d Jt rs l lf ! ” bigeon-toe Steve gave three
used’to hp an d hed , be hanged if drovin’ was the game it
y , bye ‘ ~T hen a would last a fort-
gif™, 01 N f ,w if'? ekS ii and ? othin ’ said : y° od men were 80
fc was the jobs and the pubs that are scarce
terdav Wn 9r I SS Why ! He m issed a job only yes-
lookS him mf n h fi s b lkker ed when the auctioneer
iot ld l v "? Crutchy, a mere kiddy of 17, got the
movinM’’ it to borrow a nag before he could get
KttiUVuSffiS? °' o '” doe "'‘ h " s mt ‘-
an< * Party seem to hold that
„ n ° & ras ,s at all in Australia, which idea
swf^r r f+ U ? tenabl u T , he Bul l et in could almost
that effppf SaW & ra ss, or vegetables to
this is hnw 2 U c lte o r ® centl y However, to proceed,
this is how “6xB” puts in his oar
drover C who n can P ‘ y n I ;0 ( B -> WO4) is right. The
nurse his stock and feed ’em on the
other fellow’s feed, and spread ’em widest, and land ’em
without losses, and fat, is the man for the agents. Time
is of no account whatever. Besides, most travelling mobs
of sheep or cattle travel solely for the purpose of getting
grass “ on the never.”
Also, ‘ ‘ Rita Sunyasee ” sends another contribu-
tion to the row :
An apologetic curtsey is due to “C.C.” (B. 2/6/’O4), for
I wasn’t aware that drovers up his way lived in a grass-
green Paradise, or, for that matter, that of late seasons
(except the last) there was any feed for drovers to “crib”
anywhere, worth boasting about. Our experience of late
years (in pocket, not inkpot) is that what cattle and sheep
we and our friendly neighbors didn’t hustle along to
Gippsland, before they dropped from starvation on the
way, were trucked by special trains (time, the essence of
the contract here), and then the losses were disastrous
after all the hustling and expense. I have a hazy recol-
lection (blurred with drought troubles) of seeing the
school children at Bendigo feeding the train-loads of
starving ewes through the bars of the trucks with boughs,
etc., gathered from the local parks; while at Sale and
Bairnsdale even jam-tins full of water were brought to the
perishing consignments to relieve their sufferings!
“ 0.C.” may be an authority on the gastronomic propen-
sities of gohannas, but his droving arguments, like the
rain we’re getting, are too thin altogether. The average
Victorian drives his mob ahead of his covered-in van ,
there may be a mate on horseback—there may not. Two
dogs will do the brain work, and keep vigil at night at
one end of the mob —a strip of fencing wire does the rest.
And I reiterate that the more a man on the roads can be
relied on to keep away from a pub., the surer he is of a
job in these days of competition—even from the hard-
drinking dealers.
This paper begs to suggest that probably one cor-
respondent is writing of a thickly-settled district
where there are railways and where everything is
fenced in, while the other isn’t. For instance,
there are places where you couldn’t put two dogs
at one end of a mob and a strip of fencing wire at
the other —this seems to suggest a fence at each
side —for various reasons. One reason is that un-
less the drover tied one end of the strip of wire to
a salt lake and the other to the 144th degree of
longitude there would be nothing to tie it to.
Another is that the two dogs might be attacked
by bunyips. This is only a suggestion offered in
the interests of peace, which is a blessed thing and
deserves to be encouraged.
* * * *
“Footlights”: In the “varied occupa-
tions ” list perhaps my experience for one evening
is worth a place. I was running a small variety
entertainment in country towns. I commenced
my work of an evening by collecting tickets at the
door to within a few minutes of the start, and then
handed over the duty to another of the co. to
enable me to take my position at the piano.
During the performance I would be accompanist,
limelight manipulator, scene shifter (if any), dress-
ing room attendant (for male performers only), call
boy—and if any patron was unruly I acted as
chucker-out. My own items, mostly given under
different names and disguises, would include a
tenor solo, coon song, humorous song, sleight of
hand and ventriloquial exhibitions, musical items,
a recitation, and in the concluding farce I always
had two parts.
“ Ku-Klux ” gives the experience of a girl
who was frequently after a job :
At 15 a nurse-girl, at 16 a housemaid, at 17 father struck a
winner in Tattersall’s, result two years aboarderataLadies’
Grammar School. The gamble money came to an end,
result six months struggle as music teacher, three months
governess, three months pianiste and assistant dancing
mistress, married ten months (husband died of typhoid),
boarding house 18 months, then sold up for rent. Bar-
maid for 15 months. Then went to Sydney and tried
typewriting for three months, shopwoman at 15s. a week
one month, walk-on-lady for three months (result damages
instead of the publicity of a breach of promise action and
a dear old uncle to advance fees for tuition in singing with
view to becoming a prima-donna). She is young and
innocent and owns to 22 years. She tells that she ran
away from boarding school to marry her first husband,
consequently her rich relations have disowned her.
BARRY’S CALF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Barry went upon the land
He’d small amount of pelf or backing-,
He’d but a stalwart frame, a brand,
And pluck —this last was never lacking.
This seems a slender sort of staff
To lean upon when done with rovin’;
But Barry had, beside, a calf—
One little, harmless, brindled bovine.
’Twas not of any special breed,
But just a common sort of “ poddy,”
And yet that pedigreeless weed
Held Barry’s fortune in its body.
However, Barry went to graft
Upon his land, and started fencing ;
Meanwhile the calf, with deep-laid craft,
Her strange career was just commencing.
For ere her age was seven weeks
(It’s true, upon my soul and honor)
She felt, this freak of bovine freaks,
The pangs of calving come upon her.
When Barry with the dawn did rise,
And breathed the soft, cool morning zephyrs,
Imagine his intense surprise
At seeing two fine yearling heifers.
And, filled with her maternal bliss,
Between the two the calf was standing
(Of course I’ve Barry’s word for this—
He told me while the heifers branding).
But passing strange though this may seem,
’Twas nothing to what followed after.
She did not stay to sit and dream ;
No, sir, that cowlet was a grafter.
And scarce a week had vanished by
Ere she produced a score of Leicesters,
While Barry heaved a puzzled sigh,
And tried to trace the calf’s ancestors.
Then next that calf did introduce
A sleek and handsome Berkshire sucker
11 seemjd a marvel how the deuce
She could supply them all with tucker.
A brood of half-grown Leghorn chicks
And healthy foal were next in being.
“ Bedad,” said Barry, “ this here licks
All calves that ever I was seeing.”
So Barry gathered gear and gold,
And grew a mighty corporation,
And pensioned off the calf, grown old,
That laid his fortune's firm foundation.
They made him Justice of the Peace,
And woe to any cattle-stealer
Who, brought before him by the p’leece,
Was found to have a fertile vealer.
x.s.w.
JASON.
THE LEPER
(.*o® »na
ThE'T'mADE - A - WAR- UPO(%J"Fnt.‘t.ANO,
IN 'pREEDOPRS - NAMC TIHSV&WO.
TO • OVERTHROW THE'TYRANT" Band
VJITH WTTS- READ.
THEY'I'RADEA - WRR * UPON - THE - LAND »
And - br«TPilins - BRAVEST" BLED
NOTTaANiNOR'RORjEJROR BEAST' THEY -
•J-hE'FLAN\6S - BEFORE' ThEf-I'GPEO ; fe PARED,
ANDWIUD’ANO-HIGH-THEROOFTREeFtAREO,
ABOVETHEHOMELESS' HEAO;
AND ’ CANNON ’ GROWLED - AND* TRUMPETS
BLARED
ABOVE' THE - BURGHER' DEAD
THEY‘DROVE THE FOERANTROM HIS FIELD
THEY’SPOILED - HIS - TENTS - AFAR ;
THEY - SAW HIS - STUBBORN"HORSEl~|E N
YIELD
ON REDDENED" FIELDSOF - WAR >
PLL - LIKE A WORN-OUT METEOR ; REELED"
and sana; his • perished • star
A T 'LAST -O'ER - BARN; AND- BY RE; AN D
STREET.
DIEODOVWN THE FLATHES'OF woe.
THGLAsT’ RESONANT - DRum • HAD - BERT
The - LAST - GUN-THuNDERED - L.OW ,
THERE - SAT-ON- FREE DOM'S ‘ LOFTY 'SEAT:
a white as • snow.
ta*
ME[?] PITT
The daintiest thine
for the table is
SALT
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
A.W. : “ Mr. Bartles ” received and cost us 6d.
for deficient postage. You seem to have great faith in
the carrying power of a penny stamp T. Gurr (M.L.) :
“Return of Pete” arrived in a bad state of deficient
postage M. Graham (W.A.) : Very good items....
F.T.E. : “King Grief” only moderate... .Mars: “Bush
Wooer ” is the better, but neither is quite good enough.
... .Spanker : You have dramatic force, but little literary
skill or constructive faculty... .Gus E. :It doesn’t rise to
print-level... .Bertha P. : Entirely conventional and un-
distinguished John J.: Interest not strong enough... .
A. M. W. : Too schoolgirly.... Riverina : Painfully prosy.
T.S.G. : Don’t much fancy it, though it might have been
made effective in strong hands... .Valhalla : Well-written,
but too vague and nebulous M.H. : Painfully prosy
Nemo : Humorous, but crude and awkward D.D. : Not
bad of its kind, but out of our line.... Hervey K. : Verses
all inferior. Prose sketch better, but theme too thread-
bare. .. .Mimi: Treatment hopelessly unsuited to sub-
ject. ...V.K. : Not without further corroboration....
Bast: Decline to start any controversy about whether the
carpet-snake, when shifting house, carries her eggs “in a
bag' across the nose.” She packs her eggs in a crate, like
any other sensible person, marks them “Fresh,” and
sends them to her new home by rail.... Coleman Phillips :
England multiplied its population only 2£ times in the
600 years ending 1672, about the time you reckon the de-
clining birth-rate commenced. In the next 200 years it
multiplied its population five times. And, by the way,
what is all this talk about the “declining- population ” of
Prance? Look at the figures in the “Statesman’s Year
Book.”.. ; .Nadrog : He “didn’t mean to ring the bell,”
and we didn’t mean to publish the verses P.B. : Grue-
some, without being impressive... .L. Semmel (or some-
thing like that): Too roughly put together.... Con :
Wildly melodramatic, but has no real strength.... Abra :
Your yarn woke up a little towards the end, but promptly
fell asleep again, and was put to bed in the basket,
Henry O’D. : No ; Diaz rounded the Cape of
Good Hope in 1486, 12 years before Da Gama....
Yes-No : Maud Hobson was born in Toorak, and Farkoa is
not Farquhar... .Wilmot W. : Neither is good enough
Dryblower: We chased an idea right through, but it
escaped after all.. ..H.H.W. : Story about obstetric hap-
penings is disrespectfully declined Saba: Would have
gone well in about one-fourth the space Arch E.:
Ma / thanks for your kind remarks W.J.G. : Don’t
undertake to define Rugby. It has been described as
“ the pursuit of blown leather by blown humanity,” also
as “violent assault complicated by the presence of a
muddy globe worth 10s. 6d.” Quivis :In the morning
just misses the mark by a hair or tw0.... Bell: Very good
indeed Creole: “ What Must Be ” mechanically accur-
ate, but no fire or inspiration in it... .Chesney : Feel like
printing “ Haunted.”... .Alan : Under consideration —
rather favorable consideration... .D.D.: Have met many
worse verses. Might try again M.N. : “ Darling of the
Gods” hardly godlike enough for the space Stump-
jumper: Compared to the age of that idea Methusaleh
died from improper feeding in infancy O. : A story
shouldn’t consist wholly of complaints about the smell of
a billy-goat....N.S.F. : Quite impossible... .Nocatunga :
Nothing in it... .Obi: Dull political dialogue in bad Irish.
....G.B. : Well, you wouldn’t popularise a paper very
much that way....lxion : They don’t get near poetry
level.. . .H.P.: You have a pleasing fancy, but you are
astray in your facts.... J.R.B. : True enough in substance,
but awkwardly served up.... John Gilpin: Question al-
ready been discussed to weariness... .Gilrooney : Smooth
of verse, but empty of vital interest Rita S. : Bad
points of “ Gabbin’” outweigh the good.. ..A.C.B. :
Neatly-versed nothings C.E.D. : Crude, confused and
badly metred Duro : Hasn’t the ghost of a chance
N.B: “Not all” is the correct expression, though the
other form is colloquially more used ; as in “ All that
glitters is not gold ” —which would logically mean,
“Nothing that glitters is gold.” F.M.A. : None of
them up to the mark.... Merrimac : Feeble and faulty.
G. Elwyn : Hardly well enough t01d... .Dotty : You’ll
make us “dotty” if you persist in rolling your MS. so
tightly... .S.S.T.: Close investigation showed that it was
intended for a poem B.W. : Flavor too strong....
H.M. : Yes, she’s a nice girl; send her the poem per-
sonally. ...F.W.O. : Promising, but not quite up....
Odds : Says nothing very fresh H.E. : May use shorter
one T.T.: P’raps; anyhow The Bulletin prefers a
small, honest man to a large, dishonest one... .E.L.D.:
We’ve no use for the photo of the English castle which the
English lady might have occupied if she hadn’t thrown
over her English lover and married an Australian black-
leg. Is your offer a joke? Octopus: A thin wail of
sorrow of no public interest Devonshire Boy: “The
various jobs ” competition is now off; according to
appearances the average Australian moves to another
billet about twice a week... .Bunkum : There is a prac-
tical difficulty in the way of almost every reform, and
some practical injury is done by the upsetting of every
prescriptive wrong. A progressive land-tax which would
have the effect of bringing Australian land values down to
a reasonable level would certainly seem harsh to the few
folk who had just bought land at a boom value.
But any wrong done to them is unavoidable, and is,
after all, one of the natural risks of investment
Gert: Gerrout... .Modesty : Items too stale by now
Bertie Dripping: No fat in your verse.... P. : Belated;
otherwise it would have been useful.... Dick: Epigrams
mostly stale or a little more than stale... .F.J.B. : Not
up to the mark ; try again.. . .John Snooks : Some truths,
some extreme untruths Romulus: (1) Thanks; (2)-
Don’t know of another... .Towrai: Yerse not up
Junction : Missed the train... .Unsuitable : Ixion, E.A.M.,
Nat, Veldt, J.H.S.
TO ARTISTIC! (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
M.F. : Two will do as suggestions. Two will be re-
turned. Don’t gum your stamps on. Also draw on a
larger scale to admit of reduction Ixion : One may
serve as suggestion.... Sibi : Sorry, but couldn’t spare the
space for picture P.N.C. : Rather pale joke... .Babo :
Both stale as election eggs..Wori Wori: Seasick jokes
only get in at rare intervals. This is not an English comic
paper.... Sibi: Too crude altogether.... Unsuitable
R.H.P., Nip, P.L.D., Aba, W.F.C., W.R.T., J.H.F., J.E.P.
'
HARRY MOSES, Champion Bowler of N.S.W.,
and an old-time cricketer.
Photo, by Freeman & Co., Ltd., George-st., Sydney.
Art, enterprise and science combined have made
Dr. W. E. Thomas’ Dental Establishment, 57 and 59
Swanston-street, Melbourne, a marvel of ornamentation
comfort and up-to-date dental surgery. Whilst pictures
and statuary enchant the eye, and luxurious furniture
affords ease to the body, the latest discoveries in dental
science provide painless and effective dentistry. As Dr
W. E. Thomas’ firm are the only dentists in Australasia
who are members of the Manufacturers’ Association of
England and America his patients have the benefit in
reduced charges, of the doctor’s ability to buy at first
cost, thus saving middlemen’s charges. This, conjoined
with the fact that he has a splendid staff of assistants
from the leading dentists of England and America, has
made the doctor’s establishment famous throughout the
Commonwealth, Tasmania and Maoriland.*
DIAMOND JEWELS
We Design them.
We Set them.
We carry a Magnificent
Stock of.
We Mount them.
We buy the Gems in the Rough.
Diamonds, Pearls, Rubies, £5 sa.
We Out them.
We import special grades.
We export other grades.
OUR PRICES for good Diamond Jewellery are the LOWEST in Australia
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street*


SLIGHTLY BETTER BIRTH-RATE.
The Government Statistician’s report on the vital statistics
of the metropolis for the month of May shows that during
the month 11 24 children were born, being 44 more than the
average for May during the previous five
years. The excess of births over
deaths was 622. The births, rela-
tively to population, are on a
par with the mean rate for
May during the last 10 years.
Mother of Ten . “ Well, I am glad to see that them letters I wrote to the
Sydney Morning Herald have had some good effect! ”
At a meeting held in Sydney, the Rev. George
Campbell thought it would be a good thing to
■prepare leaflets emphasing the most" striking facts of
the commissioners’ report on the declining birth rate,
and circulate them broadcast throughout the coun-
try. There was abundance of material available for
the purpose.
THE HEATHEN IN HIS
BLINDNESS
At the Methodist General Con-
ference recently held in Sydney,
the Rev R Bavin submitted the
following minute from the com-
mittee on Tongan affairs :
“ That this conference deplores
the fact, which is reported by the
Tongan committee, that Bishop
Willis, of Honolulu, has deemed
it necessary to establish a branch
of the Church of England in Ton-
ga, amongst people who are con-
verted to Christianity under the
ministry of missionaries of the
Wesleyan Methodist Church. It
considers that the action taken by
Bishop Willis is calculated to stir
up dissension, and that it is detri-
mental to the cause of Christianity
and the best interests of the people
of Tonga.”
Wesleyan Parson : “Whatever do you come bear a-sneakin' my converts tor.
Why can’t you go and save some immortal souls of your own!”
W aiter . “ Excuse me, sir, telegraph message from Mel-
bourne ; you’re wanted there immediately to save the
country.”
**• H. ReiM : Oh, dash the country. The country will keep,
this will not! ”
Passing Politician : “ Come on an’ have a loan along o’ mo! ”
Arriving Politician : “No, thanks; I’ve sworn off. Taken The Bulletin pledge.”
A new planet has been discovered i:i the
Southern political heavens. The nucleus is said
to bear a strong resemblance to Bill Lyne.
CONCERNING BIRTHS (OF BABIES AND PARTIES) AND OTHER MATTERS.


(y'l'ten
* 'to "fl/e
L 1 /"N 'fortlb ■
Ko room in ft
llje li-ftte fellow
•'icte oh tfje yfe|a
Ihc Vic l^rf y
decided to
Itje Moc coj*y
■ifje our
Sca^s
4f> e^
■y%t
I -A 1 ? 3cffe<rrr to fCerr
~
// go?& J 1
* <y /i
ihe 5 Cn fW fyjt rendurrj
Bisl/oJxjjM declare 4
I jDl<?*yrd Wjulf'Sofer
uj>
/ Owners oj- Por~t~ti* Ibodrrje
Cow's oniov,^
.''}]}& Corjjo ration i~'j>
s Co nit Cve ntnos
hulk! i$
/firrT'"
f’ l /'oj>ose
'jvzpK Jfo>- s^e^Kct-
If/C- | S c&n Ity?y
3v v '2^ ? Q.YjOugh
Wo -j'W 17 11>7 ?
% \\
yMI )
017
/ y° n 'U\s
\ Oi«i4i j
vfe JCf'Ve ■ s .^tA = +®
> ee 'Lire's, *>wUj Senior
lyjpnl** t,on Vitu y
\. °^ Net of- /
in it! its fjeitfjei- tOO hoT
y>l^fcoI‘i-just 1 ‘i -just r/ire liKe^x^
Co'Jtfivj Tcc up ~tfje old, inTirrjaJe,
Kindly t'el&tjons J/em blo y«^
' e/nT, .Sir ont fk sleef> in
SV 1 ? 6 Kind of bercu loy s jiTVticfure^
r Mu **■■■'
nt .r i„
Gw’ev, ■
V^W 5 - A/V
to cloy .r for to C ’L " ’ S
'A nolle
of Wi lli 2\m f/ f ("orn>ic K J)e\tly f>^j>er
Oot- bSt<<X jjerfectl-y well on WednejdAy Aod seen
"turni«e "H)C SbVb Corner of'ltj'e bfcc.K entrance oJ- Isc
Pi'ei<e ohhosilz -fexrf u) blow'
Oh Uje beavd Uid him l° w ** n > *
ilje no lie ** /{ if
been 'tut' , n % bea/l ' Hs«' Joe s*>d —~
'■ Could h^ Ve S\/eJ Ij ( r^
SOME MORE OR LESS MOURNFUL VICTORIAN MATTERS.


A. SAUNDERS for WEDDING PRESENTS, WATCHES, CLOCKS & JEWELLERY
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Solid Gold Pearl Set
PENDANT or BROOCH,
Similar to above,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s,
£5, upwards.
A. SAUNDERS.
16ct Gold PIN,
Set Pure
White Pearls,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold SQUARE and
COMPASS, 12s 6d;
16ct Gold, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS, all the Latest Styles and
Fashions. Prices According to Width.
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s;
16ct Gold, £B, £4, £5, £6, £7.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold lead Set
Star PENDANT or
BROOCH, £3.
Gold PIN,
Set
10 Pearls,
12s 6d;
15ct Gold,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Pearl Set
Double Heart PENDANT
or BROOCH, £4.
Pure Diamond in Centre
of Bow, £6.
Lord Watch
Between Me
Thee
When
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Heart
Oharm, 8s 6d.
Smaller, ss, 6s 6d.
Our Full
Catalogue
will show you 150
pages of fine
stock instead of
just one. It is
worth seeing.
Write for it.
Posted Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Tatpst Design Heart and Drop NECKLET, 15ct Gold, Set with Beautiful White Pearls,
Making a Most Exquisite Necklet, £l2 10s.
Other Styles, £5 ss, £lO, £l5. £l7 10s. £2O. £25.
Sight and
Seeing!
Do you
know anyone
troubled about their
Eyes?
Tell them to write
for our nt;w No. 2
Home Eye Test
Chart.
Ported Free, too!
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Heart
Floral
Forget-Me-Not
BROOCH, Pearl
and Turquoise Set,
£2 2s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open Face
Keyless WATCHES,
20s, 255, 30s, £2.
Gold* £2, £2 10s, £B.
Guaranteed for 1,2, and 3 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid 9ct Gold MEDALS,
255; 15ct, £2 10s, £3;
18ct Gold, £4.
Similar Designs, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-bar BROOCH, Set with Pearls,
10s 6d.
3-bar, 17s 6d. Extra quality, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Heart and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12s 6d.
15ct Gold, 265.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Half Round
Single Diamond
RING,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £5.
According to Size
of Diamond.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold CJlaw Set
Pure Double-cut Dia-
mond and Sapphire
or Ruby, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
16ct Gold 2-bar BROOCH, Diamond and 2
Rubies or Sapphires, 82s 6d.
A SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Pure
Double-cut Diamond
RING, £2.
15ct Gold Pearl Heart
PENDANT or BROOCH,
Set with Pure White
Pearls, £4.
Plain Signet RINGS.
9ct Gold, 15s 6d,
20s, 255;
16ct Gold, 30s, 355;
18ct Gold, £2,
£2 10s.
Gold Wiahbone
CHAIN and
PIN, Vs 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BROOOH, Heart Set, Red or
Blue Stones, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Long Gold MUFF CHAINS, in
Every Style and Pattern Made, £2, £2 108,
£B, £8 10s, £4, £4 108, £5, £6, £7,
£B, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-bar Pearl Set Scroll BROOCH, £2.
Very Effective.
Nellie Stewart Gol/'Patt Snap BRACELET,
£2 16s, £3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
Just as Fashionable as Ever.
A. SAUNDERS. „
9ct Gold Ivy Leaf Bar BROOCH, 12s 6d;
16ct Gold, Gem Set, 30s; Diamonds and 2 Rubies, t-i.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS*
9ct Solid Gold, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d. 15ct
Gold 15e; extra heavy, 255. 18ct Gold, 20s;
extra heavy, 30s, 40s, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ot Gold 2-bar BROOCH, Diamond and
4 Rubies in Centre, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Solid Gold
RING,
Pure Diamond,
£2, £2 10s.
15/-
/20/■
f
■
Startling
. Prices
such Watches.
M
M
15/-
20 /■
¥
Startling
Prices
For such Watches- A
This is a specially fine line of Watches we have just landed. They are
called the “Railwa/” and “The Guard,” and fully merit their
for strength, accuracy and worth they cannot be equalled at our
prices We have them in two grades. Movements are f-plate,
with jewels, the latest model, with fine bold face—all
secured, dust and watertight, in tfell turned Screw
case of the strongest solid nickel., Will wear
a lifetime. Price, 20s. Our practical guaran-
tee of quality goes with them. We
repair for 2 years, free of any charge
(one year in the case of “The
Guard). Price, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Buttercup
Set Pure Diamond
RING,
£3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS
SILYER
LEYER,
£2 10s.
PATENT
GOLD
LEYER,
£4 4s.
A. SATMDERS
Silver Hunting Keyless Lever,
£3, £4, £5, £6, £7,
Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
Guaranteed 2. 3. 4. 5, and
£2 £2 10a,
£8
£l5, £2O.
6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold Marquise
RING, 12 Diamonds,
3 Rubles or Sapphires,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Claw Set
8 Double-cut Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires
or Rubies, £7 10s.
All Diamonds, £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Extra Strong,
255; 15ct Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Similar, 20s.
Monogram. 2s extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, 5 Fiery
Opals, £2 10s.
Extra Quality Opals,
£3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ High Grade Solid Silver
Levers, Full Jewelled, f-plate,
£2 30s, £3, £3 10s, £4 10s.
In Solid Gold, £4, £5, £6 10s,
£6 10s, £7 10s, £S 10s, £lO 10s,
to £2O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold 3-bar Claw
Set Emerald and 0
Double-cut Diamonds,
£7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Horseshoe
LOCKETS,
9ct Gold, 265;
15ct Gold, £2 10s.
Pure Silver, 7s 6d.
18ct Gold Half-hoop,
6 Pure White Double-
cut Diamonds, £l5.
Smaller, £l2 10s.
15ct Gold 2-bar Opal and 4-diamond
BROOCH, £2 10s.
A Most Exquisite Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Diamond and 2 Rubies, £2 10s.
3 Diamonds, £3.
£L&
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot 2-bar BROOCH, Set with Pure White
Double-cut Diamond, £2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold CROSS,
15s, 20s; 15ct Gold,
21s, 30s; 18ct Gold,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Bar BROOCH, Set with Rubies and
Pearls, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BRACELET, Pearl and Red Stone Set,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bet Gold Amethyst Heart Bar BROOCH,
Very Strong.
8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s 9ct Solid Gold
Amethyst RING, 255:
15ct Gold, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bell, Chain,
and Pin, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
AND OPTICIAN.
819 811, 813. 815. 817
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station.)


Joseph Hector Carruthers is glaringly in
contempt of New South Wales Parliament; and
the Usher of the Black Rod, or the Sergeant at
Arms, or the Deputy Executioner, or other
myrmidon, should lay for him with the waddy of
penalties. He says he won’t believe Waddell's
figures. That might pass, for very few believe
them any way ; but he also says he won’t believe
the Public Accounts Committee, a Parliamentary
institution as authoritative within its sphere
as the Supreme Court. Joseph says he won’t
believe it, because it consists of five members,
three of whom sit on the Waddell side of the
tlouse. ihat is really charging corrupt motives.
.Besides it stultifies the committee of five, for there
must be an odd man always; if the committee
consisted of an even number there might be no
decision at all. Joseph also says he won’t believe
Parliament itself on Waddell’s figures, “because
the Labor party vote with the Government.”
J. nat is contempt with a vengeaaice.
} WORLD’S REMEDY!
Good Digestion is the found-’-
tio:i of sound health. Indi-
gestion means physical weak
ness, pain, languor, depression,
and shattered health. To both
cure and prevent it take
MOTHER
feu
* I su..ared terribly from indiges-
tion,” writes Mr. George Collier,
of 56, Baronia Street, Rcdfern,
Sydney, N.S.W. •• Whatever I
ate seemed to stick in my throat
and caused frightful pains in my
chest. Now, thanks to Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, I am as well as
ever before in my life.”
FOR
INDIGESTION.
FIGHTING
LUNG TROUBLE
Eung trouble has to be fought—it cannot be
played with, but if you properly choose your
weapon and then fight with deliberate per-
sistence you will win victory over the disease !
The first point to gain is the weapon. During
the past 30 years thousands in all parts of the
world have found the weapon in Scott’s
Emulsion, which fights for you from the first
dose. Having gained the right weapon,
Scott’s Emulsion, you should use it with
deliberate persistence ! You must not expect
that a single dose at irregular intervals will
cure a disease that has been preparing its
arrival for months ! Scott’s Emulsion will
cure lung trouble if used with deliberate per-
sistence. We hold many hundreds of letters
stating that Scott’s Emulsion cures lung
trouble. Let us call a witness for your good.
We take it you are eager to find it true !
Sydney, March 7th, 1903.
Dear Sirs,—My daughter, Elsie, who is now
12 years of age, was from infancy very
delicate, and suffered much from general
weakness and a very nasty cough. She used
also to suffer from very profuse night sweats
and became com-
pletely run down a
few months ago.
Having heard of the
very beneficial effects
attending the use of
Scott’s Emulsion in
cases similar to hers,
we decided to give
your preparation a
trial. She commenced
to improve almost at
once, and now after
having taken a
course of it is a com-
pletely new child.
Her cough has left
her, and the night
sweats that troubled her so much have com-
H? te Ki y CeaSe( ' Sh ? has ff ained v ery consi-
derably in strength and weight and the
g neial good that it has done for her constitu-
taon is really remarkable. I am, Dear Sirs,
Yours very truly, G. M. Owlek.
Messrs. Scott and Bowne, Ltd.
s?. iS
Elsie Owler.
If you wa,nt perfect Health yourself
or desire it for your children, write
Scott and Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
send 4d. (for postage), name this
paper, and you will receive a free
S am P le , bottle. Note this Trade
Mark when buying. Of all chemists.
The Baneful Cigarette.
When the Commonwealth monopoly of tobacco
comes, one of its good by-results will be the possi-
bility of dealing seriously with the cigarette evil,
there are cigarettes and cigarettes. The legiti-
mate cigarette encloses in a paper tube a certain
amount of fine tobacco, and is favored by a few
smokers who are too fastidious, too fanciful, or too
, fo F genuine smoking. The consumption
of this sort of cigarette by an adult is attended by
no evil consequences, except the awful decayed-
butts ’ if are left within
1 “e other sort of cigarette is in a vast
majority. It is made of the poorest and coarsest
tobacco, sometimes seriously adulterated with can-
nabis Indica with opium or o'her drugs, and is
put up mostly for juvenile consumption. To
smoke it is the sign of “smartness” on the part
of the weedy boy, and the office youth who is
always on the verge of being short iri his cash. It
has no genuine sedative or stimulative value and
is an altogether mischievous and nasty affair. Its
butt smells like the decayed soul of a Port Said
pandar and is usually carried about in the waist-
coat pocket by its devotees, who thus impress
!ni r 7i nates wbo come into contact with them
that they are dead, and have been dead for
a long while, and, having no sense of
shame remain unburied. It might almost be
declared that to abolish absolutely the manufac-
ture of all cigarettes would be a valuable reform.
Koughly speaking, the only adult who really feels
that he or she needs cigarettes is the one who
Ca smo^e a P*P e or cigar without suffering,
and that person shouldn’t smoke at all, and would
be better without tobacco. Certainly the cheap
dgarette should be banned—the malodorous article
wu w hich the stunted infant poisons his throat.
When the Commonwealth has complete control of
the tobacco industry that will be possible.
*
Premier Bent’s election promises to deal
with the adulteration swindle weren’t mere blather
he has plenty evidence whereon to start work, in
the annua] report of Melbourne City Analyist
Dunn. That inquiring individual, during last
year, tested 88 samples of milk, of which 55 had
been doctored in one way or another. Coffee was
never pure coffee—in one case, the proportion of
chicory ran up to 50 per cent. Little, if any
raspberry vinegar had ever heard of the raspberry
and one sample contained 29 grains per gallon of
sulphur dioxide. Nearly all sago tested was found
to be tapioca. Gin, whisky, rum, &c., were mostly
found wanting in the amount of drunk that the
customer paid for. In fact, it is difficult to name
any single article of food, drink, or clothing that
isn t adulterated. There is no profit—even of the
cash description—in adulteration while every
trader does it, and there would be no harm done
to a single trader if adulteration of every kind
were made penal forthwith, while there would be
a considerable advantage to the public. But there
is a very faint hope of Bent doing much to sup-
press adulteration. Bent, after all, is a man in a
rut. He shouts a good deal in his rut about how
he is going to get out of his rut, but he stays in his
rut all the time.
4
Tasmania has established a National Ass, with
ex-Premier Neil Lewis (the man The Bulletin
supported when he was trying to straighten the
islands finances) as chief Joss. Its object
is the old dreary hypocrisy—it is to oppose “ class
legislation.” Yet almost every measure that is
passed is class legislation, and that state of things
must continue indefinitely. It isn’t once in a
hundred times that a measure of any importance
can affect every class. Australia has had class
legislation for farmers (Acts providing for water
conservation and irrigation, for road grants, shire
subsidies, butter bonuses, establishment of land
banks, seed wheat grants, and hundreds of other
things); class legislation for importers when
duties were taken off ; class legislation for banks
when reconstructions were authorised ; class legis-
lation for squatters when rents were reduced and
arrears wiped off ; and so on. No Democrat has
seriously objected to these. He didn’t mind the
rich man getting class legislation. He wasn’t even
mean enough to call it class legislation. That
term never turned up till the worker wanted a
little legislation for himself \ then the grudging
Tory arose with his curse and his snarl, and
invented the new phrase. The National Ass man
doesn t object to class legislation ; he wants heaps
of it. In fact, he wants all there is going. It is
the other fellow’s class legislation at which he
throws his shapeless mud-pie of opprobrium.
4
The vigorous attempts to induce cookies in the
Eastern States to sell off and select big areas in
the sand plains and swamps of Bigjohn’s country
have resulted in the discovery that the best land
contiguous to railways has long been held by men
in the Lands and Railway Departments. The
Perth papers have maintained their usual masterly
silence, but occasionally a glimpse of the case has
been afforded in the letters of would-be selectors.
After a man has been pointed out a decent piece
of land—perhaps 20 miles from anywhere—and has
decided to apply for it, he is liable to find out,
three or four weeks afterwards, that he is called
upon to cancel his application in favor of another
block that he has never seen and about which the
Department is hazy. An official advertisement
to this effect is actually now appearing in Perth
newspapers.
• *
The Westralian Government isn’t through yet
with its troubles over ex-Warden Hicks. Mines-
Minister Gregory made a number of remarks
about his former officer, and the latter fired in
a writ for £5OOO for libel. To the jury young
Harney made an appeal which lately-imported
Justice M'Millan said was one of the best he had
ever heard, and the jury came along with a
verdict for £2750. The Government took the case
to the Full Court, where Justice M ‘Mi llan
explained how Harney had stuck him up.
Again and again Harney had referred to the
fact that Hicks had been sacked from his
£lOOO-a-year billet; but every time he mentioned
it he added that, of course, the jury wasn’t to take
that into consideration. Still he went on
mentioning it, and in the circumstances
Justice M‘Millan didn’t see how he could stop
him mentioning it, although he felt dead sure the
fact of the dismissal was soaking into the jury’s
mind, and that Hicks was going to get damages,
not simply for the libel, but for the dismissal as
well. The Full Court therefore pulled the verdict
down to £lOOO, or if Hicks didn't like that he
could have a new trial. Hicks looked like taking
the £lOOO at first, but has since chosen the new
trial. It is the first time the State has been up
for libel, and already the experience has made a
good-sized hole in the little that is left of Wes-
tralia’s old surplus. If Hicks had only hung the
matter up till Premier Jimmy’s predicted loan
boom arrived it might have been reckoned in
among the permanent and reproductive works.
But litigants are an inconsiderate lot.
Extbact from “British Industries under Free-
trade ” :
So much had the American improved his machinery and
methods that in 1890 “ his productive labor was costing
him less per dozen by 50 per cent, than it was costing the
British shoe manufacturer for the same work.” And yet
the American boot operative was earning £3 a week
against £llos. for a similar man in Leicester or North-
ampton.
So much for the argument that low wages are a
necessary condition for extensive exporting. The
intelligent, highly-skilled and highly-paid work-
man invents machines that do the work of ten,
and do it well. The cheap animal worker invents
nothing ; he only drudges along trying by main
force to do the work of two, and does it badly, and
leaves his dead body at last in the furrow. The
trouble as regards Australian industry is that there
isn’t sufficient effort to acquire special skill, and
that the Australian Labor Party has never had
sense enough to recognise that it is necessary to
work on a large scale in order to produce economic-
ally, and has never gone bald-headed for Protec-
tion, as the American worker did, so as to make
work on a large scale possible.
at i s -,Y^ n * er ’ so ’ * n S of the heaviest harvest on
JSI.S.W. record, we begin to hear again from the
young man who has “gone on the land,” as the
S.M. Hebald and D.T. told him to
Hay, Tuesday.—At last night’s council meeting it was
decided to ask the State Government to grant £3OO to
provide relief work for the local unemployed during the
winter. Owing to continued drought and attendant
stagnation of business work has been very scarce in the
district, and there is considerable distress among the un-
employed.
Still, N.S.W. goes on gaily spending £15,000,000
a year on foreign goods to keep the foreign work-
man employed. And when Hay last month had
to help elect a representative, it voted like this :
hor the candidate who believes in employing the
foreign workman, 605; for the other candidate
who believes in heavy Protection for Australian
industries and the employment of Australian
workmen, 554. The town that votes to employ
the foreigner, and then asks for State relief for
local men because they can’t get employment,
writes itself down a pretty considerable ass.
The incurable Owe’Sullivan thus appeals to the
electors of Belmore against his opponent Fitz-
gebald
Mi. Fitzgerald has taken up the fad of not borrowing
any more money from abroad, which means that the
Central Station would not be finished, and so the shop-
i e flf rs an< °thers of Belmore will be deprived of a share
of the money earned by the men who will work there.
His arguments on the subject of borrowing are crude and
ill-digested.
The Minister who denounces solvency and self-
dependence as a “fad,” and reckons the idea of
not getting further into debt is “crude and ill-
digested ” is a fine sample of political degradation.
Owe bULHVAN has got into that state of alleged
mind that he regards all public works as impossible
unless the money is borrowed from abroad, and he
holds it a matter of course that without loans there
can be no railway stations, no public buildings, no
railways, no roads, no civilisation. The 1.0.17.
is the basis of everything in the bankrupt Owe’-
Sullivan philosophy. It sets one wondering if
the dreadfully incompetent Owe’ ever looks for-
ward. A country always wants new public works
so long as it remains a country, and if it must
always borrow to construct them then there can be
no limit to its debt. And when the foreigner ceases
to lend (which he must do some day, for nothing
goes on for ever), then, in the Owe’Sullivan
gospel, all progress must stop and the State must
lie down and petrify. Meanwhile, Owe’Sullivan
cordially assures the lender by implication that he
can never hope to see his money back. N.S.W.,
he holds, can’t pay for its works when they are
new ; and a State which can’t do that will be
equally unable to pay for them when they are old
by liquidating the debt upon them. The old
station was built out of loans, and when it is worn
out the debt on it isn’t repaid, but the new station
is also built out of loans. As a gorgeous advertise-
ment for N.S.W.’s chronic insolvency Owe’Sulli-
van holds the record.
♦- -
The Victorian farmer is again begging—cadging
openly, and unashamed, bailing up the community,
and truculently holding out his horny hand for
alms. And what makes him such an exasperating
pauper is that he calls himself the fine manly
Backbone of the Country, and always pretends,
while demanding assistance from the much more
heavily burdened city worker, that he does it
because it will be beneficial to the city worker to
give him the assistance. This is the latest: —
Kerang, Tuesday.—On the motion of councillor P. J.
O’Donnell/, seconded by councillor Hamilton, it was
resolved by the shire council to-day—“ That this council
is strongly of opinion that it would be in the best interests
of the people of the State, and would largely benefit the
business of the railways, to have manures carried free
of charge over the lines to bona-fide farmers. The value
of manures has been conclusively proved as an agent to
stimulate and increase production wherever tried, and
such fact should be ample justification for the Railway
Commissioners to adopt the course recommended. And
this council is sincerely impressed with the belief that if
effect is given to this resolution a new and vigorous
stimulus will be given to farm production, the immediate
effect of which will be a corresponding improvement in
the business of the railways.”
And if the manufacturer asked to have his new
machinery brought to him gratis per rail because
it was ‘‘ an agent to stimulate and increase pro-
duction,” the remarks of the Backbone would be
worth listening to.
«
In reply to a complaint by the Victorian Anti-
Sweating League, bawling Bent declared that the
Government had increased the hours of signalmen
on the railways from eight hours a day to ten, only
at places where there was “ time enough between
trains to permit of the men going fishing.” The
Anti-Sweating League has rejoined that Bent is
a liar. Quite a lot of the time of a lot of people in
Victoria is taken up with telling Bent that he is a
liar. The League gives four suburban stations
where the hours have been increased and where
the work is as follows :
At Williamstown the signalmen come on duty at 5
*a.m. and work until 3 p.m. The other man comes on at
3 p.m. and works until about 1 a.m. During this time 36
passenger trains arrive, engines run around, and 36 pas-
senger trains leave. They also have seen seven or eight
goods trains arriving, and the same number departing.
This work gives about 400 entries in the train re-
gister, which must be faithfully kept. They also have two
engines continually shunting. These men between 7 a.m.
and S p.m. have to be continually working, not having
five minutes’ spare time. The man who is on duty from
5 a.m. until 3 p.m. has to get two meals the best way he
can.
At Middle and North Brighton there are 24 trains
between 5.15 a.m. and 10 a.m., then half-hourly until
4.30 p.m. Then until 8 p.m. they have 25 trains, and
then a 20 minutes’ service up and down until closing
time, about 12.40. These men also have a pair of gates
and wickets, also semaphore lamps to clean, light, and
put out, also keep the usual train register-book, with ten
entries for each train.
At Canterbury they have 80 passenger trains, also two
goods trains, which are frequently shunted from one line
to another to keep from blocking passenger trains, also a
pair of gates to work, and four wicket gates. All the
men require to do a lot of telephoning, which takes up a
good deal of their time.
In addition there are 16 suburban boxes where
the hours have been increased from eight to ten a
day.
Few man have a better knowledge of the
working of the Lands Acts, than has Land Agent
W. N. Willis, of 21 Bligh-street. Payment by
results is not only reasonable but also novel."
SJgSfll
&
li:. 1 ;
* i iHi
! iii
&
S»
'NATURES
H.EASANT.
lAXATIV6’*
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE.
Words of Advice.
ASK F.R CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS
and see that the package
bears the well - known
Name and Trade Mark of
the California kig Syrup
Com pany. i mitations are
numerous,but as you value
your health you cannot
risk taking a substitute.
CHRONIC CONSTIPATION
33 the cause of Indigestion, Headaches,
Bdiousness. Feverishness, and many
other e\ ils, and until the cause is re-
moved these complaints will constantly
recur. The surest and pleasantest
means to this end is California Syrup
ofF igs. Medical men have discovered
... in this ideal laxative just that mild,
non-irritating corrective that can be taken by all—strong and weak, old
and young—with truly beneficial results.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIAN FIQ SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London, England.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
ti 1::
; Ia‘n‘u ...u:‘
551‘ NU "'11;
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR’S
STRAWBERRY
CONSERVE.
IN 1-lb. FLAT TINS.
Manufrs.—JOHN MOIR & SON, Ltd., LONDON, ABERDEEN and
SEVILLE. Head Office : 9 and 10, Great Tower St., London, E.C.


POLITICAL
POINTS
S. Aus. Labor party will put the progress-
ive land tax in the front for the next election.
It is to the advantage of the Labor party
in Victoria that Bromley has been succeeded as
leader by Prendergast.
If Crick had been looking for a steady
billet, he might have taken the £2OOO a-year presi-
dency of the Land Appeal Court.
Said that Bent is already casting evil
glances at Victorian Railway Commissioner Tait.
who is proving not too susceptible to political
influence.
John Burns has suggested in the House of
Commons that Aliens Exclusion legislation might
be best applied in the first instance to the rich
Jewish financiers of Park Lane.
Salvarmy papers in Australia all barrack
for a yellow and black Australia. And that’s
quite natural. Booth’s methods tend to drag
whites down to the level of Chinamen.
“ Demos ” : General Booth’s proposal
needs explanation. Why does so careful an
economist propose sending the unemployed
half-way round the world to get them
on the land when the land is waiting
for them in England—with no passage
money to pay ? The Financial Re-
form Almanac states that 27,000.000
acres of agricultural land in the
British Isles are no longer broken up
in rotation, but kept under grass
for sheep runs, and the area is con-
stantly increasing. Same authority
states that over 2,000,000 acres
have been taken out of cultivation
for deer parks, also that 30,000,000
acres are returned as non-agricul-
tural land, and of this probably
a third could be cultivated.
Booth is noted as a charity pro-
moter —let him remember that
charity sho d 1 begin at home.
The M bourne Women’s
Political ' ssociation, presided
over by Vida Goldstein, has
started a Mock Parliament,
which seems to have caught on
from the jump. In it women
are to learn the whole art of
politics with due Parliamentary
forms —a Speaker, Clerk of the
House, Ministry (Liberal-Demo-
cratic), Opposition (Conserva-
tive), and a Labor Party. It is
already going strong, and, at
the last meeting, the part of the
hall to which the public is ad-
mitted to see the show, on the “sil-
ver coin ” dodge, was crowded.
Another reason for a Jieavy tax
that will force the greedy land-grabber to
utilise his locked-up acres—whether he has 10
or 10,000 : The chief reason for the soulless sweat-
ing that many dairy-farmers practise on their chil-
dren is the high rent they pay or the extortionate
prices they have paid for their land. Dear land
means cheap labor and vice versa.
In the fitness of things, John Kidd should
have followed John See as N.S.W. Premier. It
was Dibbs who made Kidd' Postmaster-G,en,eral
after Parkes (with Dan O’Connor as P.M.-G.) had
fone out. “It’s quite fitting,” said Old Man
'arkes “ I had a goat for. Postmaster. This is a
much smaller Ministry, and it has a Kidd.” When
Kidd was included in the See ministry, one of his
colleagues explained : “We were wondering who
would be the last man, and Kidd was wandering
about outside in the corridor—so we appointed
him.”
“ The lowest grade ot officers in the service
have precisely the same rights as the highest, and
those rights should be zealously respected.”—
Mahon, P.M.G., to Deputy P.M.G. Outtrim.
Four years ago promises were freely scat-
tered that Federation would result in simplifica-
tion amounting almost to abolition of the State
Parliaments. It is time the Constitution-makers
helped fulfil those promises.
Sydney Morning Herald (June 9) holds
out the hope that, if Carruthers is returned to
power with a sufficient majority, he will repeal the
Arbitration Act, though at present he has not the
courage to declare that intention.
At a tinsmith’s in a Melbourne suburb
girls are employed as tinsmiths at exactly half the
wage paid to the men working at the same bench.
The output is practically equal from men and
girls. Where does the Factories Act come in ?
George Beeby, who is to run in the Labor
interest for Leichhardt (Sydney), has been school-
teacher, journalist, accountant, and finally lawyer.
He’s a smart man, and his firm, Brown and Beeby,
gets the cream of the N.S.W. Arbitration Court
business.
It is good news that Victorian Labor
party leader has invited the members of the Mac-
kinnon party to attend a caucus meeting of the
Op position. By a co-operation, on sensible lines,
of the Laborites and the Mackinnon Opposition is
the fall of Bent to be best compassed.
No less than three old members of long
standing are struggling for the Darling seat in the
N.S.W. Assembly—Davis, Sleath and Willis.
And the Labor man is J. C. Meehan, the red-
hottest fighter in the back country. But Willis
has joined the C.O.D.’s, and that gives him more
than “a possible.”
The declaration of Premier Watson is
welcome that the Federal Arbitration Act will
discourage any attempt on the part of a trades
union to form itself into a “ close corporation.”
The logical complement of enforced legal prefer-
ence to unionists is that the unions shall be open
to all decent workers.
N.S.W. Commercial Agent Suttor is work-
ing on the right lines in Asia when he seeks out
markets not only for our agricultural products, but
for manufactured articles. True, the manufac-
tures do not exist to -any very great extent yet,
but opening up the possibilities of an export trade
will do much to stimulate them.
Norman Cameron, M.H. A., opposes social-
ism for the other fellow, but, when his flocks are
threatened with an obscure sheep disease, he
wants Tasmanian Government to send for a
socialistic expert from socialistic Maoriland to
cure his sheep on socialistic lines. He doesn’t
believe in private enterprise in the matter of
sheep diseases.
James Meldrum, just defeated by auc-
tioneer Gray for the Swan Hill (Vic.) electorate,
had the unusual experience of having been a
member of Parliament for two months, yet never
having taken his seat or drawn salary. He was
elected in Taverner’s place after Parliament had
prorogued, prior to dissolution. He was a ’Pootra
man, and before he could get back again Swan
Hill had changed its mind as to that fowl.
THE CIRCUMNAVIGATION OF BENT.
1ST ELECTOR: “I tell you he’s a dashed hard
man to get round, is Bent.”
2ND ELECTOR (dubiously): “Ye-es—if you’re
pressed for time. But when you do get round
him look at the exercise you’ve had.”
All the indications point to a forlorn prospect
for N.S.W. at the next election—the Ministerial
party nerveless, disorganised, dominated by its
worst elements; the Carruthers party the contempt-
ible slaves of sectarianism and faction ; the Labor
party afraid to make the plunge and come out as a
genuine Financial Reform party. The honest
voter will be forced to be a mugwump and,
abjuring ail parties, vote for the man offering who
is the nearest to being an honest candidate.
A YES-NO REFERENDUM.
Victorian Referendum on religious
instruction in State schools affirmed by a large
majority that the schools should be kept secular as at present; it also affirmed by a small majority
that the present secular system should be changed and religious teaching added to the course.
THE BULLETIN reckons it knows who voted.
Sydney papers the other day headed a
Bankruptcy case “Effects of the Early Closing
Act.” And then the careless sub-editor didn’t
cut out the insolvent’s admission that he had been
playing up “on the turf ” and had dropped £2OO
in two years, although he was a very small-sized
suburban shopkeeper.
At the Victorian elections 58 '5 per cent,
of the metropolitan voters went to the poll, as
against G 4 -5 of urban electors and 65‘5 of country
ditto. State servants voted by post, and their
percentage ran to 85 - 9 for the railway men, and
84'5 for the other servants. It looks as if general
voting by post would be quite as efficacious as
compulsory voting. ,
Australia can’t expect to attract immi-
grants of the right stamp while a single black
labor advocate flourishes in the Commonwealth.
One constantly comes across statements in Eng-
lish prints that “a large” or “the largest portion
of Australia is suited only for tropical agriculture
by colored labor.” White men won’t come to what
is represented as a black country.
One of the fool-incidents of Victorian
State elections was a fierce scream (by Grant
Hervey, which the Tocsin fathered) identifying
the cause of Labor with antagonism to religion.
It was used by the Argus to scare away the timid
voter, and had to be repudiated by various Labor
candidates. Democratic? politics should not be
mixed up with religious (or irreligious) issues of
any kind.
N.S.W. Farmers’ and Settlers’ Conference
has rejected by a narrow plurality of two (42 to 40)
a motion affirming the need of a progressive land
tax, moved by T. Brown, M.H.R.; and the con-
ference represents, in the main, the men who have
land already, and to whom such a tax has been
long held up as a bogey. To find 40 friends to a
progressive land tax among 82 representative land-
holders is encouraging.
“ But what seems to us objectionable is
the vote given simply on the ground of the candi-
date’s religious belief. Yet many an election has
been decided by nothing else. To our own church-
men we say especially : Do not associate your-
selves with those whose main qualification is fear
and hatred of other forms of Christianity.”— The
Church Commonwealth (one of the few genuinely
religious papers in Australia).
Thus J. V. Bartlett, a candidate for Cam-
den (N.S.W.): —
If he were elected, he would draw his £3oo—but he
would hand it over straight away to a committee to
expend on charity.
If he is elected, The Bulletin hopes to see Mr.
Bartlett unseated for corrupt practices. To offer
£3OO a year to charities on condition of being
returned to Parliament ought to be counted as
bribery.
Quite a number of women went to the
Melbourne polling booths at the "V ictorian elec-
tion, under the impression that they possessed the
State suffrage, and went away highly indignant
when Labor canvassers thoughtfully explained to
them that the House of Rich Landlords had per-
sistently refused them, that right. Curiously
enough, they were mostly of the class to which
the House of Landlords belongs, and which it
represents.
Sydney D.T. acclaims' with the sound of
loud timbrels the fact that the Eskbank iron-
workers and their employer have registered an
industrial agreement, which
affords an excellent illustration of what may he accom-
plished when the parties to a dispute are disposed to
resort to conciliatory methods instead of rushing- off and
invoking- all the machinery of the Court to bring- about a
settlement.
But the unfair journal gives no credit to the Arbi-
tration Act, which alone makes such things
possible, and which is being availed of in scores of
cases to put into effect similar agreements, peace-
fully arrived at.
Even in his old age N.S.W.’s Dan
O’Connor has great resources in the way of elo-
quence. One evening his white whiskers
were pouring down from a hotel balcony in Phillip
Division, and while denouncing his opponents in
general terms he spoke severely to them about the
beauty of the glory of the iuminosity and the
bloomage of the fruitage of the mind of that Titanic
personality, William Ewart Gladstone, or some-
thing thereabouts.
On June Bth, Sydney D.T. gave up one
leader to cursing industrial arbitration and the
next to describing with horror how in Colorado,
where there is no industrial arbitration, a labor
dispute is being settled with rifles and dynamite.
As a matt.er of truth there are only two logical
ways of settling • a labor dispute—by the legal
means of an Arbitration Court, or by the violent,
and illegal means of a gun; and to one or other
of those ways a civilised community always
ultimately drifts.
Sydney D.T. prints a cable about the latest
American strike troubles :
Labor in Colorado.
Terrible Dynamite Outrage.
Twbkt y-Five Persons Killed.
Railway Platform Blown Ur.
The Bulletin suggests alternative headings :
Labor in Colorado.
Further American Experiencf3.
The Beauties of the Strike.
Arbitration Laws Proved Unnecessary.
When the news of the loss by a mine of the
Petropaulovsk reached the British House of Com-
mons (Henry Lucy records) —
It created a profound sensation, shouldering out the
last traces of interest in the business that nominally
occupied the attention of the House.
It is recognised as an event unparalleled in naval his-
tory, charged with profound significance for a naval power
which, as was mentioned in the House yesterday, in the
last nine years spent seventy millions on new ships. Here
is a lesson blazoned to the world, showing how, in the
twinkling of an eye, the costliest line-of-battle ship, fully
equipped, skilfully officered, gallantly manned, may be
blown into space.
Election items from Lismore (N.S.W.) :
Lismore, Friday.
At the quarterly meeting of agricultural societies, a
motion was carried that the Government be asked to
devote an annual sum of £2OO, to be allotted as special
prizes for the best managed farms in each district.
A meeting for the selection of a candidate for the elec-
torate was held last night. A motion was carried that it
was desirable to select a practical dairyman to represent
the district.
Evidently a practical dairyman is wanted to milk
the Shite cow into the buckets of the anti-
socialistic farmer.
One energetic effort, and one only, has the
N.S.W. -(Ministerial party made to organise for the
elections, and that was in the Belmore
electorate, where a candidate favorable to the
Government on all points except one, and on
that one pointing the way to a genuine and
vitally necessary reform, was in the field.
The fact that Fitzgerald had announced for
honest finance, and no borrowing, apparently
goaded the Owe Government to a spasm of
energy, and though he was on all other points a
friend of the party, one of the Ministers was.
entered against him.
Nasty little boys and low radicals of a
larger growth occasioned the Jewish leviathan
legislator, “Gnat” Levi, a great deal of uneasi-
ness during his struggle to get back to Vie. Leg.
Council last election. Levi pasted St. Kilda and
the southern suburbs with banners with the-
strange device “ Vote for Evil ” in large, staring,
black block letters. At least that is how the
streamers read after the vandals abovementioned
had taken the L from the front of “Gnat’s” sur-
name and stuck it on at the tail. Evidently the-
electors did not hold that out of Evil cometh good
—they dropped Nathaniel to the bottom of the
poll.
A FLAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ One of the principles of the Socialists is collective
ownership of property. Another of their principles is the
substitution of free love for marriage.”—(Freetrader
Conroy in the Federal House of Reps.)
In Conroy’s crafty lie we note
A trap to catch the Petticoat.
Yon barracker for foreign trade
Incites the matron and the maid
To make “ Protection for the Wife ! ”
Their battle cry in party strife.
He’d have them think the Socialist
At heart is a polygamist,
A wretch who (vide Conroy’s lie)
Would tear to shreds the marriage tie,
Which holds weak man in wise duress,
And keeps him faithful—more or less.
But still ’tis said by them who know —
A mocking bird has told me so—
The Labor crowd that Watson leads
Can shake a stick at Georgie Reid’s.
O, Araminta, young and fair;
O, Martha plump, with borrowed hair,
Fear not that Socialistic laws
Will tamper with your teeth and claws.
E.F.
ﬁﬂ
. . ‘ ,'. v t ,3
GrO TO lO:ir.X.-
ItJOLANI' for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists graiia.
JONES
RHEUMATIGURO
NEVFR fails to cure
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago'
and Neuralgia, oj ail chemists, ,2/9
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO. :
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECTACLES
"3‘“: 44%;; , A
ﬂ’ﬁi' IA -=-
af' 1'.’-‘;3’ (5%» ‘2 7' —"
”ﬁg/9%» ‘3'
'-::"~‘ 0.‘ \. ‘ Y" ' 24 x
K ‘\ A ‘iy‘ /_ (-3:
R '
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally,- we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellotislv-accurate
and popular SELF SIQHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and ipialiiy of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George=st., Sydney (opposite strand Ar. ade
66
D.C
L
WH
K
S
V
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship,
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s, £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, 89C FA U BY, St. Martin, Paris, France


PALING’S
VICTOR PIANOS.
m
&/>e Victor Pianos are specially
made to our order, designed
and patented by tis, Known as
Victor I, Victor 11, and
&/>e New Vicftor Upright
Grand (with 3 pedals).
These Pianos at the price are the
best value obtainable.
©6c tone is full and rich, touch
excellent, handsome cases,
and durability guaranteed.
If you want a good grade Piano
at a moderate cost
BUY A VICTOR.
That’s the Piano you want.
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
W
n
Paling
fa Co
Ltd
338
GEORGE
ST
SYDNEY
St
15he V*
BELLING” PIANO.
are our
The “BELLING” Pianos
Cheapest Grade, hut good
Pianos withal.
We have handled them for the
past 25 years.
Thousands have been sold and
have given entire satisfaction.
'We can import cheaper Pianos
than the Belling, but we
could not guarantee them.
They are Grand value for the
money—cased in walnut and
and possess valuable
improvements.
You cannot buy a cheaper good
Piano
SOLD ON EASY TERMS.
Old Pianos taßen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling' Co., Ltd.
338 GEORGE. ST., SYDNEY.
John Norton abandons what is left of
Northumberland (N.S.W.) electorate for salu-
brious Surry Hills—the part of Sydney which
gave J ohn the biggest vote ever cast for a city
alderman. Also, if John “ gets there” he will be
able to boast (if John oOuld be guilty of boasting)
that he represents the largest electorate, in point
of numbers, in N.S.W.—as well as the most in-
telligent, of course.
Doctors Differed Again
But
VITADATIO
CURED.
Read What Mr. Davis Writes.
' Perth.
Dear Sir, —I have been invalided for about two
years and three months.' The doctors treated me for
Inflammation of the Lunas, Bronchitis, and Pneumonia,
but failed to cure me. I used to suffer with very severe
pains through my back and chest, and had a very nasty
cough. I was in the Perth Hospital three weeks, but the
doctor told me he could do no more for me, and that I
was as well as he could make me. I was laid aside for
twelve weeks at Fremantle. The landlady of the Club
Hotel advised me to try VITADATIO, which I have done,
and after taking four bottles I am now in splendid health.
I will be pleased to answer any inquiries that any
sufferer may require in the hope that my humble
testimony may be the means of leading others to health.
Yours respectfully,
(Signed) FREDERICK DAVIS,
, Bays water.
Witness : W. J. FIST, Perth.
For farther particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
, The Price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
-MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
This Elastic Truss—
M
Elastic
Truss—
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
And B L < rw R « GE S T" SY£)NEY (°PP. Hunter St.).
And at Oor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
Proposed Electoral Reform Bill in
Queensland disfranchises inmates of charitable
institutions; —an illiberalism unworthy of a
democratic ministry.
One Brookman, M.L.C. of S.A., fires this
at the head of the first Australian reporter he
sees :
I think there will be no difficulty in borrowing- money
provided we appeal at the right time, and the Common,
wealth Legislature keeps within reasonable bounds,
Australia s last hope is to mind her p. \s and d.*s in
her Parliament, wait until Uncle Cohen has had a
good dinner, and perhaps she can borrow again if
she catches him affably inclined. Now, what
could we do to make Uncle affable ? Put Bruce
r 1, 1 °® ce an d offer to take over all the Jews
of .Russia ?
One of the most useful Institutions of this
country promises to be The Diabetic Institute of
.London, established for scientific research into the
origin, cause and treatment of Diabetes and the
secondary symptoms: gout, rheumatism, car-
buncles, &c. Hardly any disease is so little
understood, and at the same time so insidious and
dangerous as Diabetes, which, according to the
highest modern authorities, is curable after all
whe,n treated in time. If interested, write to the
Diabetic Institute, St. Dunstan s Hill, London,
1t.0., for free information.*
Ex-Minister John Forrest exposes his sour
disappointment at being deprived of office to an
indecent degree. Last week he wasted half a
night m the House of Reps, with a motion for
adjournment (of which he had given no notice to
the Uovernment a breach of all the rules of the
game) because the Postmaster-General refuses to
allow volunteer military titles to be used officially
in the post-office, and the embittered Forrest
dragged into the matter the noisome sectarian
issue. Forrest and Reid are well fitted to run in
double harness.
The character of the Bent following in the
Victorian Assembly peeps out in the resolution to
put up a “ Ministerial candidate ” for the office of
Speaker. The Speaker in the last House, Mr.
Beazley, has again been returned to Parliament •
it is acknowledged that he was a good Speaker'
and, according to all usage, he should be elected
again without opposition. But Bent believes in
‘the spoils to the victors,” and Beazley is a
Labonte and not a Bentite : so an effort is to be
made to displace him. Even the Argus resents
this:—
Mr. Beazley served a lengthened apprenticeship as
Chairman of Committees ; he acted as Speaker gratui-
tously during the illness of Mr. Gillies ; and, next
throughout a Parliament in which feeling ran high he
performed the duties of Speaker in an entirely impartial
and very able manner. So there can be no personal
reason for displacing him, and the only excuse could be
that he is returned as one of a minority, and that the
lucrative offices should go as prizes and rewards to the
members of the majority. The assertion of such a
principle would he a degradation of the high office and
an entire departure from British tradition.
Poetic justice struck Ballarat West hard
on election day. Fifteen years ago Joe Kirton
was a letter carrier, and a big shoulder lift by the
public servants put him into Parliament as a
democratic member. He drifted from that day to
the Tories, but kept his seat on many rackets. This
time he went down hard. His speeches were
tirades of abuse of the public servants.
‘‘Crawlers ” he called them at one meeting.
Then Ballarat West fired him out. A man who
used to hump round a letter-carrier’s bag sneering
at public servants was too much.
SOLID FACTS about
The Callaghan Special
BOOT FOR MEN.
The Facts are :
SOLES—SoIid oak-tanned stout walking soles,
stitched on a Goodyear machine, with best
Irish Flax Thread, warranted not to rip open.
UPPERS—Uppers and vamp are cut from plump
skins and are not skimped in any way,
LINING—A good grade of leather.
The inner sole is milled perfectly
smooth on the surface and free
from nails, creases or thread.
HEELS.—Square trimmed,
Size, 1 inch, properly
nailed.
16/6
A t
PAIR
TAN LEATHER, 17/6
mm
1 - .V
POST
and
DUTY
FREE
In Tan, 18/6.
To any address in tlie Commonwealth, except W.A.
Vou will find lh,s Boot In wear to be the Cheape.t you oyer bought.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 CEORCE ST., SYDNEY.
Satisfaction given or money refunded.


“ Jao-” : Wandering over Melbourne
Botanical Gardens, I came across an important
social function. What time the visiting Johnny
of more or less social status happens along he is
oromptly bagged by the genial Guilfoyle, and
induced plant something. That s all right as
far as it goes, especially if he can be forced to dig
his own hole. But it mostly operates tliuslv :
Said Johnny saunters down and damns tne
beastly climate. That duty performed, his serenity
savs “ Haw ! ” in a tired tone, which serves as
a signal to a French-named aide-de-camp to hold
erect a Chinese palm, while his johnnyship
languidly strokes a handful of common or garden
soil with an American spade. Everyone then
unites in saying “ Haw !”, and so closes another
crime.
The theory of a Domain dosser ten-
dered in return for a threepenny on a wet
night. “No, sir, I’m not afraid in the dark. 1
•see things—many of them splendid things. Ihe
little lobes lying idle behind the ordinary human
nose are active in a small way with me.
say they enabled man one time to see m the dark.
That’s but a bit of the truth. They enable me to
.see the spirits of the dead. They pass me by, one
by one, but sometimes a lot together; all ranks
and conditions. They talk, but I can t hear.
That’s because the disused lobes behind my ears
are not active like my eye ones. I have a mate
the opposite ;he can hear them but can t see. 1
suppose the eyes that supply ordinary sight will
fall into disuse also; nerves fade and bram cells
wither up, and then the man who retains a little
vitality in them and says he sees the sun rising
will be set down as a crank. Thousands of years
•ago spirits were seen by many ; now by hardly
anyone. Simply because of the drying up of the
•cells. But the spirits want to show themselves
and talk to us now as much as ever !”
SUpping-
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
LONDON .. .. •• £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13*. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street. „ „ ,
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-street.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS S 00.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
Th ' Langham Hotel
"
PORTLAND PLACE,
and REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
nodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
Banking.
of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office— GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
2,000,000 0 0
1,350,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. ..
Reserve Fund.
Reserve Liability .. -• •• ••
Total 5,350,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Chas. K. Mackbllar. M.L.O.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnib, Esq.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Brond Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand
and Fiji: and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India China,
Japan and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circulai
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business. .
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circulai
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90.000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £12,019 18 6
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Gnoe, Esq. ;
Hon J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Thomas Skene, Esq., M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manage!
Eoyal Queensland
'CAPITAL PAID-UP ..£457,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175-097
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) b2,00L
£695,463
Head Office: BRISBANE.
•Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Aset. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25,ABCHURCH LANE.
,16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the ll'orfd.
The Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
M J. P Canny. (Messrs. Burps, Philp&Co. Lkd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... A^OO.OOO
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability ol Share- nftn
holder. 250.T00 ... £350.000
snipping.
N. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To EUROPE via SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
BANDA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
T.S.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 6th JULY.
T.S.S. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 17th AUGUST.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
FARES TO LONDON .. Ist. £77 ; 2nd. £5O.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London .
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
MORAVIAN
SOPHOCLES
NINEVEH
A. Simpson
H. A. Schleman ..
A. Robb .. ..
Noon, June 25
Noon, July 16
Noon, Aug- 6
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will And every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacansfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rnHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-L the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
COM
sxb a. m;s heir*
LINE.
CANADA,
QOEA.NIO
A. AND A.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Soecial Rates, Including St. Louis Exhibition. Printed Matter and All Information Fret.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., managing Agents,
n/vowi?T? PITT AND RR.mOE STREETS. SYDNEY.
NORFOLK ISLAND, THE BEAUTIFUL.
A little under 1000 miles to the N.E. of Sydney lies Norfolk Island—“ The Gem of
the Pacific,” as It has been justly called. The Island Line of Steamers afford
excellent opportunities to visit this charming spot, leaving Sydney on first of every
month, calling at Lord Howe Island en route. The tourist enjoys in all 11 days’ sea
voyage and 11 days ashore. First Class Return Fare, £10; including accommodation
ashore, £l2. Send for Illustrated descriptive matter, Post Free.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Limited, 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, Ac.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
Cjv
$
BILLS
discounted.
asr.s,"W-.
fflßntdepieteß.il I.C O -»ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•7 a CASTLEE.EAGH ST., 74.
■ “ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT. General Manager.
-t HR-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR . .
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • * 106 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miuler.
Accumulated Funds, £2,814,795.
Policies issued 9i,657 assuring £28,394,068.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,267,019.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -eouitably distributed.
Head Offioe:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Preference Shaves issued to His Majesty in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. •• ••
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
2.000,000
500,000
500,000
Total Capital
£3,000.000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mbbks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
D Bright & Co.), Sir John Sbb, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Bs 't-
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Berth, A. W.
FaRQUHAR. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager Aitfnha
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
•• Thej r come as a boon and a blessing to men, w
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the AVaverley Pen.
i »|y|j 111 1| \ |f iViihj^p^BSSS^^r
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separated examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
CST BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. KS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
CANADIAIM-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
SPEND THE WINTER IN AMERICAN
MIDSUMMER.
Cheapest Excursions Ever Offered
in Australia.
Grand Tour to the Rocky
Mountains.
CHEAP TRIPS to ST. LOUIS, NIAGARA
and NEW YORK.
STEAMERS SAIL—
July 11, August 8, Sept. 5.
Send for Particulars and Illustrated Pamphlets.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing: Agents, George-stceet, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Paesengei Agent.
Himself Cured.
t\EAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and
U Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
1"“)
'7 VJ» \ ‘
OUR GLADIATOR
ELECTRIC BELT will make a WEAK MAN
STRONG, Cure Rheumatism, Nervous and
Wasting Weakness, Sciatica, Lame Back,
Varicocele, and all Liver, Stomach, Kidney
and Bladder Troubles. Price Lists and
Lastest Testimonials post free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
63H ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA., BRONCHITIS,
DIA.RRHCEA, bears oa
the Government Stomp the name
of the Inventor—-
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28 1806, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(r/IMt'JWN)).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Ylotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POUT PI HIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY.
FREMANTLE,
Transhippinpat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Cintra, Friday, June 17,
at 5 p.m. (Transhipping
at Melbourne.)
S.S. Yonsrala (New and
Fastest Steamer on the
Coast), Saturday, June 18,
at 1 p.m. (Without Tran-
shipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Cairns
S. S. Marloo, June 18, atNoon
S.S. Ointra, June 25, at
■ Noon.
S.S. Wollowra, July 2, at
Noon.
jtest and Cheapest Jtoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. _
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6600 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MRLBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, aiv.l
PORT SAID, wiH be dispatched MONTHLY as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, Inaia, Cnma
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £37 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreter* meed
the passengers for London and give them every awisbanoa
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRAISER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
EVER* , Tl — , „
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only aie all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe f vt Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
* 37 Pibt-st.. Sydney.
mm
Y/Tf
r,H
Ostrich Tips
From the Famous Farms of South Africa.
Black, White, or Cream,
or Black Tipped with
White (length 10i inches).
3 for 10s.
Post Free to any Address.
These Feathers cannot he bought for
twice the money in any other house.
WRITE NOW.
Send Postal Notes, or Ten Shillings Money Order
to John Miller. Illustrated Price List Free.
Miller’s S’eatJi er Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., Sydney; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
Lincoln, Stuart’s
1
All over
Australia
JSE F'
Clothing
AS THE CHEAPEST HOUSE FOR
MEN’S &
BOY’S
Write for Patterns and Self Heasure
Forms
Lincoln, Stuart &.co.,
Flinders Street, Helb<urne,
TOOTH-AGHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Prevented-
Neuralgic Headacheß & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTEK'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
L/J
yj
“A» a specific for Tooth ache tt has no equal. I have
need it successfully for years."-Prof, W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’Sworsdells PILLS
Are a certain Cnre for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, 40.
Of all Stores. _


Nofc generally known that Bent, the cab-
bage-grower, was a teetotaller until he got into
Parliament. But he has been a long time in Par-
liament.
Judge Ward, of Maoriland—an Anak
amongst men—has had the distinction of having a
steamboat partly built to fit his huge frame. It
used to worry the Union S.S. Co. to know that
the Judge, when travelling on circuit, had to
huddle up in a bunk which wouldn’t let him
stretch, and, being about to have a new boat built
for the Judge’s beat, the co. ordered - a specially
long cabin and berth for him.
“ T.D.” : Bummaging through old papers, I
have just come across a belated yarn which I had
written down re dead J ohn Farrell. His sheaf of
complimentary missives from literary people after
publication of “Ave Imperatrix” included one
from Kipling. A weak-eyed pressman, unable to
decipher the minute characters, asked Farrell
what it was all about. “Oh, I haven’t read the
dornned screed yet,” quoth John, “but it must be
all right—if it was uncomplimentary he’d have
written it big enough for people to read, onny-
how.”
“Fayre”: Had occasion lately to go
through the list of women helped by a certain
Sydney charitable institution, and was much
struck by some of the front names. These are
just a few that I noticed : —lrma, Alicia, Devina,
Sorenia, Zoran Alberta, Patricia, Cecilia, Pru-
dence, Providence Sarah, Richarda, Elvina,
Happie, Thursa, Francesca, Keziah Euphemia’
Afric, Jamesima, Diana, Miriam Silver, Albertina,
Elisa Bazalia, Alexiana, Anastatia, Clarinda’
Martina, Marcella, Sabina, and a few plain Kates
and Elizas.
Melbourne bagmen are not too fond of
Railway boss Tait. Said the C.T.A. president,
the other day : “Mr. Tait is such a very plausible
gentleman. He invites you into his office, cigars
are produced, and he pleasantly requests you to
say just what you want. You think you are going
to get everything—but in the end you get nothing.
But he always gives you a straight answer.” Poor
Dicky Speight was just as courteous, but he mostly
gave everything asked. Mathieson was Tait minus
the cigars.
S. Australia’s biggest telescope is not at
Adelaide Observatory, but is owned b? A. W.
Bobbie, a city machinery-man, who made it him-
self. Telescope-building is one of his dozen
hobbies; in 31 years he has built the whole or
part of three. The first one (even that was the
most powerful in the State) took the spare
time of 11 years to build. The larger one, lately
finished, he rattled through in 10 years. A. W.
Dobbie may be fairly reckoned a patient, per-
sistent man.
Thomas Henry Payne, the man Melbourne
South province preferred to sturdy old George
Godfrey for the House of Landlords, is one of
Australia’s conspicuous legislative absurdities, a
painful person who knows as much about politics
as he does about the upper reaches of the Amazon.
He represents tons of money, and that is all.
Asked at one of his electioneering meetings what
were his opinions about a tax on unimproved land
values, he replied that he hadn’t the slightest idea
what the blessed thing was, and when the meeting
yelled with derisive laughter, he turned gleefully
to his chairman and said : “By Jove, that was a
hit!”
A surprise awaited a well-groomed and
somewhat frivolous Collins-street (Melbourne)
“specialist” the other day, when his heavy in-
debtedness led to the seizure of all his office
belongings. The furniture was carted away in the
early morning ; and the specialist, unaware of his
misfortune, was not timed to arrive at his rooms
until the afternoon. Meanwhile a wag had affixed
a card to his door announcing that business was
carried on as usual, and the boy attendant, who
knew no better, had shown half a dozen lady
clients into the unfurnished and barren ante-rooms.
When the specialist arrived that boy went down-
stairs like an eggshell in a whirlwind.
About various people :
Apropos “ Butty ” M'Mahon (B. 26/5’04). Thirty years
ago and more, “ Butty” was connected with the old carry-
ing firm of Woods, Shortland and Co. About this time the
Albion estate was cut up and sold by order of the execu-
tors of Mrs. Esther Hug hes, relict of John Terry Hughes,
of much old colonial notoriety. Butty purchased largely
and that purchase laid the foundation of his fortune.
Some of the land he sold to “Too’ee”at £lOO a foot,
Too’ee’s people having purchased the old brewery build-
ings. The Albion estate was some 40 acres in extent, and
stood between Albion-street and Cooper-street, running
back to Riley-street. On the estate was the brewery run
in early days by J. T. Hughes, but allowed to fall into
decay upon Hughes’ death. The mansion, a fine two-
storeyed house, stood some distance off Elizabeth-street,
and nearly in front stood a stone cottage which, in later
years, became notorious as the residence of Dr. Burdett,
better known through his advertisement and pills as
The Widow Welch.” He and the Widow O’Brien are the
only two male widows on Australian record.
Re a Maoriland inventor :
Some years back Harry Hoveli, surveyor and mining
engineer, invented a machine which, if judiciously used,
would rapidly terminate proceedings in the Yalu between
the northern Polar animal and the modern survival of
our absurd common ancestor. The gun was in the form
of two barrels striking out from a common stock at a
slight angle. They were muzzle-loaded with ball pro-
jectiles. To each shot was attached the end of a chain,
the slack of which, spiked to taste, lay coiled beside the
machine. When the charge was exploded the shot left
nastily at the angle described, and, gathering up the
chain, swept visible space with the fury of 19 harnessed
uehennas. The inventor was in correspondence with the
nntish War Office for some considerable time, and a
model of the destructor was forwarded to Hingland, to
he condemned, however, as uncivilised and barbarous at
think) the Nice convention ; and the prospect of flatten-
”Ut a r) a ™>’ corps at one fell shot was lost to the
Hovel! has since been appointed by a humorless
world an officer of the Royal Humane Society or a per-
son to prevent cruelty to something or other.
More Nimmo reminiscences :
lunuJf 1 ® e j§'j'Hes the late John Nimmo, of Vic., was
Pubhc Works, and when he was omitted from
“ nn,r nStl fi IC i ,f i < > c ab:net the r ason given was that he was
u ed L , A s P eoiflc instance was given, that he
Kt .1 deputations. One night in the Assembly
t[ a 0r , J ! as Speaker, a Bill to make sludge
on f the goldfields was brought in, and Nimmo was
ln Rnl„ to s tonewall. Of course he sooner or later got on
of Scotland l e vP n to quote him largely on the beauties
s's“ 7 -, lhe » uprose a member, and said : “Mr.
order 3 > 1 ask your ruling, sir. Is the hon. member in
scenevv about the poet Burns and Scottish
channpl«?» GI d V l6 c l uestlon before the House is sludg-e
he “that m P l ter gave his rulin &- “ 1 apprehend,” said
describe tbn lle hon member for Emerald Hill wishes to
unfavorable natural beauties of Scotland, and suggest an
chanm.lf.,,l com P™' with Victoria when the sludge
obiector for Jn/ de ‘ , . Nm nno, having inwardly blessed the
and ror, 1 fpXTS' him time to get wind, got up again
liouor bo7 ed h,S re . a d in gs from°Burns. Nimnm hated
who sal on In 3 an incessant smoker. David Gaunson,
can’s inner j °ther side of the House, was the publi-
Whenevpr v; and \ Moderate drinker, but didn’t smoke,
son told tbp V? m ° ked and voted against liquor, Gann-
tobacco mmv° USe bo ' v he loathed the disgusting habit of
Nimmo was a civil engineer by pro-
spice merchant 1 ” 0113 y enouB:h > went into business as a
Men’s Disorders
THERE is no class of Disease so serious to Men as that which heralds decline of the Nerve System, Deteriora-
tion of the Vital Porces, causing’ Premature Decay and Early Death. Enfeeblement of the Vital Organs,
resulting in Weakness and Lack of Nerve and Will Power, is essentially a disease, and must he treated as
such. Diseases of the Prostate G-land, Varicocele, Bladder Infirmities, Rupture, Weakness of the Spine, Mental
Impairment, Rheumatism of the Back, Blood Disorders caused through Contagious Blood Poison, are disorders
which demand immediate attention. Men suffering from any of these should consult the Medical Experts of
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
MEDICAL INSTITUTE
who are Specialists in those peculiar forms of Disease afflicting the Male Sex. They cure permanently and
surely. They do not treat “incurable” cases. Men in thousands have been cured by them, and the knowledge of
their great cures has created a Continental fame. Men travel from all parts of Australia to consult them, and
invariably return to their homes cured and grateful Men.
Herein we publish a photograph of an audience consisting of over 4000 men who attended the lecture given under the auspices of The
Freeman and Wallace Institute in the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, recently. This lecture was eminently instructive, and commended by the'
Victorian press. It proves the great interest evinced in these matters, and how cognisant the male sex is of the danger arising from these
disorders, which were the subject of the lecture, and how great is the skill of the Specialists of an Institute, known throughout Australia.
\
\
M
v.
H
\
t
v
,
CE
any
m
&
*
f/x
Leotur* to Centlemen only, delivered by Mr. William Fletcher Hall, In the Intereete of The Freeman & Wallace Eleotro-Medloal Inatltute
Sydney and Melbourne, at Her Majesty's Theatre, Ballarat, (Vic.), on Monday, March 20th, 1904.
Whatever your Disease, no matter where
you live, you can have Specialists’
Advice Free.
You cannot afford to trifle with your health. If you are suffering from
an ailment, you require the services of a Specialist, who has made your
particular disease a life study. We have several skilful Specialists; they
are paid high salaries to give you free advice. Write us, describing your
case. Your letter will be handed to a distinguished Medical Expert, who
thoroughly understands your disease. He will diagnose your case and
write you fully, prescribing a home treatment especially designed to effect
your speedy and permanent recovery. This will not cost you a single
shilling. We have had patients, many of them on the brink of the grave,
who suffered from Kidney, Lung, and Bowel troubles, Heart Disease,
Nervous Disorders, and other Serious Ailments, who have been permanently
cured by our new system of home treatment. Every home should have a
copy of our great work. “Clinical Experiences,” 150 medical plates, 750
pages, 31 chapters. It is written expressly for SICK MEN, and is his best
friend. Post Paid ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS ONLY
Young*, Middle-Aged, and Old Men.
ARE YOU FAMILIAR WITH DESTRUCTIVE CONDITIONS AND
CAUSES?
What is the cause of a general weakened, debilitated condition?
How is it that so many men and women are old before their prime?
Why is it we see so many wrecks daily in the city streets?
Why are people hopeless, tired, and weary of life?
Why are men weak, emaciated, lacking grit and energy?
THESE ARE SERIOUS QUESTIONS?
They are of vital importaace to the welfare of ALL MEN—Young,
Middle-aged, or Old—who are not what they should be in strength and
power. Men 'whose SYSTEMS are RUN DOWN should try our NEW
RENOVATION SYSTEM. Over 10,000 persons HAVE BEEN CURED.
No matter how ill you are, you have a
Chance to Recover. While there’s
Life there’s Hope.
The glory of a young man is his strength. How do all men and women
regard strength?—With admiration. How do both look upon weakness
With pity and contempt. You cannot insult a man by calling him
Hercules, or “Samson,” unless he is a weakling. Alexander the Great
Julius Caesar, Napoleon, Bismarck, were all men of great physical strength’
Some men remain weak because they inherit weakness from the shortcomings
of their parents. A far greater number drag themselves through a life of
decrepitude, because they are covering up some-secret drain upon the
fountains of strength. Reformation and medical treatment are their most
wf g -! nfc .. need *. We c V re thousands of cases of General Debility annually
Write to us for special pamphlet of testimonies, mailed Free, it mav be of
value to you. J
A man _ who is embarrassed or hampered with weakness which
threatens to invalid him, should consult the Specialists of THE FREEMAN
and WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE who have become famous in curing
complicated Disorders. A disease may mean premature decay and death to
him. Always take a complaint in time, so that a radical cure may be effected
To-day you should seek aid before it is too late.
******* »* * *
Advice # Consultation , %?me S u ' Free.
The Physician-ln-Chief of the Institute, Dr. RICHARD WALLACE
M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., Possesses Nine Diplomas and Cer-
tificates of Qualification and Registration fcy the Medical Boards of
Australia, England and America. Late Hospital Staff, Melbourne Hospi
tals, and Imperial Army Medical Staffs. (See Victorian and New South
Wales Practitioners’ Lists). He is a Specialist unequalled in the
treatment and cure of Men’s Serious Disorders.
■jnvE | | Any man may, if he so desires, through
RUlt. ■ private reasons of his own, consult the
Specialists, by addressing privately “THE SECRETARY,”
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute, 227 Elizabeth*
street, Sydney, or, if more convenient, “THE SECRETARY,’*
Cer. Bourke and Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, opp. C.P.O.
In some instances, a iran may not be able to call person-
ally, and may prefer to write upon matters seriously con-
cerning himself. All such letters are promptly replied to
by the Physician-in-Chief, Br. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.,
L. R. C. P., E., L. F. P. E., L. M., who is always in
attendance, and personally supervises each letter.
The Specialists’ great medical work, “CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES,’’ a book essentially for Men, 570 pages, 31
chapters, 150 medical plates, sent post-paid on receipt of
ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STS.,
SYDNEY And at Melbourne.
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute.
Richard Wallace, M.D., Physician -in-Chief.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
“J.D.” (being in a sarcastic mood) suggests
some definitions, which he says he got from The But-
LETIN 1
The Totalisator. —A machine in which you put a trou-
ser button, then yoke up a horse in a dray, back it in and
load with coin of the realm, Broken Hill and Mt. Morgan
shares, bank notes and other securities. With this you
purchase yourself carriage-horses, a diamond pin, a wife
and a new pair of socks. ... . , ,
The Bookmaker (alias Ikey Mo).—A ferocious, loud-
voiced and foul-mouthed beast of prey ; arrayed in purple,
fine linen and a white hat. When the unsuspecting punter
approaches, the bookmaker grasps him roughly, rapidly
reverses him, bumps his head repeatedly on the ground,
picks up any money that falls from his old clothes (all
punters wear old clothes), puts it in his bag and gives him
a ticket in return. By these sinful practices Ikey is
enabled to drink champagne, smoke shilling cigars, wear
diamonds that look like decanter-stoppers, and keep a
harem. , , ,
The Punter.—A direct descendant of Baalam s ass.
He is such a good young man that he ought to own the
earth, but at the conclusion of a race-meeting he gene-
rally does not own a tram fare.
* * * *
Chief Justice Stout, of Maoriland, said, the
other day, while delivering judgment in a racing case,
“ People who go to races are demoralised, or become de-
moralised by going. ” Thereupon John Norton s sporting
paper rebuked him severely : —■“ Does Sir Robert mean to
say that King Edward and all that is best and bravest and
most thoroughly reputable of those the world over who
owe allegiance to him have become, or will become, de-
moralised because they enjoy horse-racing ? ” That ought
to please King Ned. John Norton was no talways thus to
him - .
That interesting failure, Seaport, strengthened
his reputation as a too-later by running second for
Adelaide Birthday Oup. Bobbie Lewis came over from
Melbourne especially to ride the little gelding, but his
efforts went for nothing in this instance. Seaport was
never so prominent as when the winner was passing the
post three lengths ahead of him. Backers repeated their
experience two days later. Burn rode Seaport for the
Alderman Oup, and this time the brute was running m
second place fully half a mile from home. But instead of
performing like a sticker, Seaport finished fifth. It will
be a good day for punters when he is shipped to India.
Billali is another little horse that almost invariably
repeats his failure in the same old way. The brother
to Bobadil started for the Birthday Handicap at Flemmg-
ton, and shaped as per usual—something more than
“squib” and less than stayer. It seems to a lot of
people that speedy Billali should have been given a longer
spell. The little fellow has so often been beaten after
making the running in the race that he now drops back
from force of habit.
* * * *
Victorian owners for once failed to make much
out of the autumn racing in S. Aus. The Jockey Club’s
£4136 was well cut up, only two men winning over £3OO,
one of them a local owner and the other a Westralian.
The Adelaide Racing Club’s £4125 went in much the same
way, a leading hotelkeeper in the city taking £855 out of
the two principal events, and nobody else totalling as
much as £3OO.
* * * *
The A.J.C. is inviting applications for the
positions of stipendiary stewards, as the present appoint-
ments expire at the end of the current racing season.
The principle of the thing is excellent, but, unfortunately,
the present occupants of the positions haven’t done
much.
* * » *
Brood mare Nautilus, byTraducer —Water witch
was shot in M.L. lately, owing to advanced age.
* * * *
The A.J.O. committee (Sydney) put its back to
the wall, the other day, and when the owner of Sea Kale
sent that horse’s entry for the Epsom and Metropolitan
Handicap, rejected it. Sea Kale incurred the displeasure
of the A.J.O. through being entered for a Kandwick big
handicap, and, after occupying the position of favorite
over a month, being withdrawn a couple of days before the
race. The scandal should have been sifted long ago, but
even this tardy punishment is better than none.
* * * *
The telegraph trouble has broken out again on
the Maoriland racecourses. When the Napier Park R.C.
refused to allow a telegraph office to be worked on their
ground Minister Ward got his back up, and promptly
opened an office just outside the fence. Now the
Taranaki Jockey Club has decided that it will
have no telegraph on the course. Some brilliant
swindles have been worked on Maoriland bookmakers
by telegraphists. On one occasion when Christchurch
Grand National was being run, the public telegraph office
was closed till 6 p.m. The big event was run off at 3.15
pm. The railway telegraphists in Dunedin were anxious
to spoil Israel, but as there was no continuous railway
wire between Christchurch and Dunedin they could not
see how to get information through. To have used the
public wire was too dangerous, and meant having too
many confederates to share the spoil and let the secret
out. Then one genius proposed that two of the con-
spirators should get their annual holidays and be at the
two stations where the sectional wires might be joined.
This was done. The day of the race they were at their posts.
A Christchurch railway man was to be on the course and
telephone a confederate in the Christchurch railway tele-
graph office, who would call Dunedin once only and
then telegraph the results as quickly as possible. When
the day came there was a railway man in nearly every
big bookmaker's office in Dunedin, lolling round with a
cigar between his teeth, struggling hard to keep under
his inclination to bet heavily. The race finished at 3.23 ;
at 3.27 Christchurch called Dunedin once, and Dunedin
acknowledged with a couple of dots. Then Christchurch
reeled off the information, and at two sectional stations a
couple of innocent telegraphists gaped and wondered
what the game was. At 3.29 the confederate in the tele-
phone exchange, the only non-railway man in the swindle,
gave two tiny tinkles on the telephone bell of the book-
makers in whose offices the conspirators were waiting.
When they answered the telephone they were told
it must have been a flash of lightning or something,
and then the railway men found their resolutions
not to bet suddenly melt away, and they plunged heavily
on a horse they hadn’t mentioned previously, for an
awful outsider had won. By 3.35 all the bets were booked,
but it was not till a few minutes after 6 p.m. that Israel
tore its hair and rent its garments for having laid fright-
ful odds against a rank outsider. The coup was too suc-
cessful, and, although some of the bookmakers had paid
over before they discovered there was a coup, a big
majority refused to part up. A searching inquiry was
held, but the two sectional telegraphists having suddenly
lost their memories nothing came out then, and Israel
had to part. The secret got out long afterwards.
* * * *
Melbourne Cup nominations this year show a
falling- off, but total entry, taken last week, for V.R.C.’s
seven flat races (viz., Melbourne Cup, Maribyrnong
Plate, Ascot Vale Stakes, Derby, Oaks, St. Leger, and
Sires’ Produce Stakes) is 134 better than last year—full
figures being 828 to 694. Bar one ocoasion (1901), when
the total was 852, this year’s entries have never been
exceeded —.- - *
* * * *
Crack Sydney jockey Hood whose license to
ride in the Metropolis was withheld by the A.J.U. tor
some mysterious reason, rode four winners in a five-event
programme at Wallsend on Saturday. A little while bac ,
at Kiama, Hood rode every winner—five.
* * * *
The Westralian racing boom continues. The
W.A.T.C. raked in £14,626 profit during year ended
April 30. Each of seven meetings at which £9875 prize-
money was distributed panned out well—gross receipts
totalling £34,387. » * *
“ D.” Our black brother is an apt student. At
last Oamden Agricultural Show I struck a blackfellow
manipulating the three cards, while a gin and a tattered
white “ buttoned ” vigorously. A drunk came up to have
a pick, and when on the point of turning up a wrong
card, the gin, thinking he was on the right track, pointed
to the next and said ” Mine tink it dis one. >( The drunk
took her advice, and turned up the lady. Instead of
getting his winnings he got a free view of a skinny-leggt
gin racing hurriedly for the horizon with an irate card-
sharper in hot pursuit and scattering lurid remarks
regarding the “plurry” hidings in store for the lady
when he overtook her.
* * * *
* * Brumby ” Aas accosted the other evening
by a stalwart and excited female. She wore her hat in a
fierce manner over one eye. Said she was going to a
certain wharf where another woman was waiting to light
her, and wanted me to accompany her to see fair play
and pick her up. She said she wasn t sure whether her
own bloke would be present, but if he was he d lay em all
out. “ ’E’s a fair cow is Bill when ’e starts, said she. 1
replied shortly that I didn’t want excitement, having a
wife of my own ; and moved on. Verily the age of
chivalry is dead, and i’m it.
“Hiphen”: Indeed and indeed we are a
sporting community. Strolled through Albert Park last
Saturday, and was rendered giddy by the dlff ®F® nt ' f
bewildering varieties of sport going on there. The place
fairly reeked with flannelled fools and muddied oafs.
From “ gor’blimes ” rending each other in an untidy
manner at football to ‘ ‘ haw-haws ” indulging in golf,
every known branch of athletics was represented—except
pinsr-pong. There were oarsmen and yachtsmen hurlers,
football fiends, lacrosse lunatics, hockey homicides (con-
sider the language when one hits another instead of the
ball !), motor-maniacs, equestrians, temperance preachers,
trotters, babies-in-prams, and, last but not least,
two-uppers. I nearly forgot to include cyclists I
should not have done so—l got one in the back.
Then there were beardless youths, dressed in big
helmets and with red stripes down their pants, who
dashed fiercely and aimlessly around the landscape,
seated all over antiquated cannon. These were drawn at
a dizzy pace by weary animals which, in their private and
week-day capacity, pass as lorry horses. The noise from
these accumulated pastimes would have awakened a night
watchman. Moreover they all culminated in figlW the
fiercest battles were among the goffers and two-
uppers.” I must except the “sobers : they behavedam
an orderly—not to say lady-like T manner. In fact, they
looked as if they had not a fight in them.
Otago Rugby Union has been so horrified at the
antics of its drinky players while on tour that it has given
instructions to team managers against the introduction
of grog on trains, or indiscriminate shouting. Which
is all very well ; but sometimes young fellows kick up
rows and play the fool whether they have had liquor or
not. And if they haven’t had liquor, or have merely
glanced at a hop-beer bottle at most, they that
they are half-seas over and that they are a devil of a fellow
and collectively, and act accordingly.
* * *
The unusualness of a Rugby referee at New
Plymouth (M.L.). A couple of wild and woolly back-
blockers, Playing on opposite sides, werenoticed bythe
official with the whistle to be slogging each other when-
ever opportunity afforded. The referee stopped the
game, told the pair to have it out right away, and then
play like gentlemen. The crowd thus got an additional
item for its money. The scrimmage was short and
vigorous, and then the ball rolled on.
The old jealousy between the North and South
Islands of Maoriland has broken out in a ? r ® sh Nace. The
Rugby Union has fixed upon wet 'vindy Wellington
as the scene of one match against the English football
team, and Christchurch is kicking very hard. First t
wants the match played at Christchurch and proposes if
the Union doesn’t cancel the Wellington fixture, to secesh
and form a Rugby Union for the South Island alone. It
demands if the match cannot be played at Christchurch,
that it be transferred to Auckland, for gate considera-
tions. There’s a great opening for secesh parties in
M.L. just now; Johnny Want and Jack Haynes, please
note. „ ,
* * *
A crowd of about 20,000 people swarmed to the
University Oval, Sydney, on Saturday, to see the N.S. W.
v Queensland Rugby match, with the Te Aute v. New-
ington run-over as a preliminary. The afternoon was
perfect, but the muddy state of the ground aiid the lack
of seating accommodation soon damped the enthusiasm
of the crowd. Both matches were wretched displays, the
inter-State one especially, from a football standpoint, and
the collegiate tussle on account of its one-sidedness.
There is nothing more irritating on earth than to watch a
lop-sided football struggle. Whoever arranged these
matches between the Te Aute team with its grown-up
backs and the little boys from the N.S.W. colleges ought
to be ducked. If the Te Aute team were composed of
scholars only, it wouldn’t be so bad, but it isn t, and several
“ old bovs ” are in it. If Te Aute is to be allowed to rope
in its old-time champions, why not the N.S.W. colleges
also, to equalise things ? Then several of the crack players
of first-grade Rugby would have been there to
opposed the rush of list. 41b. Maori backs, liven with the
advantage of weight, adult backs and the sun behind
them the Maoris “pointed ” like a lot of setters, and played
an off-side game that was as discreditable as it was unfair,
considering the physical inferiority of their opponents.
The match ended in “ a decisive win for the visitors by
21 points to nil. They ought to have won by 50.
The N.S.W. -Queensland match was a poor dis-
play of clumsy brute strength. There was no passing;
merely a wild, erratic shying of the ball anywhere. The
picking-up was a farce, and had the ball been red-hot it
couldn’t have been worse handled, while some of the kick-
ing would have earned big salaries on the comedy stage.
The one redeeming feature of the exhibition was the
rapidity with which Queensland followed up. The for-
wards had speed—and that was all, while those of N.S.W.
seemed too slow to catch ducks. Neither team s forwards
had apparently any system of combination and every man
played his own. game, and when the Queenslanders got the
leather down on to the N.S.W. line they found a streak of
combination among the Cornstalk backs, which caused
them to lose their heads and fool away their chances in a
way that moved all good Rugbyites to blasphemy. If this
is the sort of form we are going to show the Englishmen,
Australia will make a poor show. But that the a VV. tuu-
back and three of the three-quarter men were all from
the University, N.S.W. had assuredly been beaten, they
were accustomed to playing together, and displayed
spots of combination when Queensland was raging light
on the line and saved the position. The match came to
an end in the falling dusk after N.S.W. had scored 11
points to Queensland’s six. Judging by the way our
crack Rugby men go in for individual play they are more
fitted for the Australian game, which is mostly a struggle
between two and two. Rugby calls for the absolute
abnegation of the individual, and the whole tendency ol
the game on Saturday was to glorify him. There were
splendid punts and magnificent kicks when there should
have been dribbling rushes aud passing charges. Men
were bunched together in a close pack when they should
have been spread out across the field charging, with the
ball flying about till someone got an opening. But every
man hung on till he was tackled. The numbering of the
players has proved a curse instead of a blessing, lhe
reporters talk about the “ determined effort ” of some fool
who has run full tilt into the hostile pack, instead of con-
demning him for not passing before he was tackled. As
long as this sort of praise continues, so long will Australia
go down at Rugby.
* * * *
It happened at a big M.L. coursing meeting,
recently. Usual judge, at the last moment, found himself
too ill to act, and another volunteered. Most decisions
were easy, for the winner generally had considerably the
better of it, but in one or two cases rulings roused demon-
strations. The judge outdid himself, however, when a
pair of dogs broke away, still coupled, from the slipper,
and, after coursing up and down awhile, killed the hare.
Then the white flag was hoisted, indicating that the
“ white collar ” had won. The secretary of the club rode
over to find out what the judge meant, and was met with
“My word, wasn’t that a great go ?” Another judge got
into the saddle after that. #
Said that King Ned has gone stark, staring mad
over bowls ; and that bridge, golf, and even horse-racing
have lost their charm for him compared with the great
whisky game. * * *
Apparently there is nothing much in being a
champion billiard player. After a lifetime spent at the
game, John Roberts is said to be poor, living with his son
in Madras (India). The travelling professional sport finds
that the more admirers he has the more it costs him in
drinks. He may possibly get the value of his drinks back
in the shape of more drinks, but that class of hospitality
does not represent cash, and all is ashes and p.n. s at the
close of life.
* * * *
Wrestling is said to have been the great national
sport of the Norseman, and right down through English
history till the end of the Plantagenet dynasty the game
was actively encouraged by the State. Men who could
handle the quarter-staff skilfully and whose condition
was kept right by the practice of wrestling were always
good material for armies. Probably its decadence was
due to the fact that even football, as played in Wanganui
(M.L.), was a mild and gentle pastime compared to it.
Hacking was always allowable, and every English village
could boast of quite a little contingent of cripples and
loonies. The cripples were men whose legs had been
ruined by the kicking, which was a recognised adjunct of
the sport, and the loonies were those whose skulls had
been cracked with quarter-staves. Now that the sport
has been properly coded and deprived of its objectionable
features, it has no very serious dangers.
* * * *
Said that wrestler Merzouk’s strong point is his
greasiness. When Carkeek got his giant arms locked
round the vast Algerian he found himself handicapped by
the oily nature of the dusky skin. Merzouk, it is said,
eats 31b. of butter a meal, and, whenever Carkeek gamed
anv advantage, Merzouk just gave a wriggle, and all the
butter he had been eating for the last 24 hours came
oozing through his pores, and Carkeek found himself in
the position of the man who went into the oil vat to clean
it out and found a boa constrictor in possession. But greasi-
ness only served Merzouk in defence ; owing to it he was
handicapped in getting a grip on Carkeek. *
Very doubtful if, after all, the wrestling boom
has not missed fire in Australia. The suspicion that
Carkeek, Merzouk, and Sabas were all in the same stable,
so to speak, damped it at first, and finally the evident
anxiety of at least some of the group to avoid decisive
struggle between the Algerian and the Oornish-Amencan
stainped it right out. The suspicion that the whole group
was imported by Harry Rickards would have mattered
not a jot had Merzouk and Carkeek grappled to a finish
and with a vim and earnestness that would have been
their own answer to any whispers of arranged results.
But either the big Algerian or his manager is afraid of
Carkeek, or else it is intended to string public interest on
as long as possible, or some more subtle game is being
played. , , * »
Announced that neither Madralli, the Terri-
ble Turk,” nor Hackenschmidt, the “Russian Lion, has
covered the deposit which J. Carkeek is said to have left
lying in London for their special benefit. They evidently
reckon the old dog is still the best for the hard tussle, and
stand off to make liay while the sun shines and the old
dog is far away. Probably it will be a monkey-faced Jap
who will take up Carkeek’s gage. A burly little man
from Tokio is just now' champion lightweight wrestler of
England ; after which anything ought to be possible.
The championship of Australia is held by an Afghan , so
the colored men are doing well in “ the Empire just now.
Burly Sydney cabman Gavin made a bid for
Jack Carkeek’s £lO, and was advertised as “ Gavini, a
liberty which ruffled the ponderous Jehu muchly. i
wouldn’t mind them making me anything but a pesky
Dago,” he remarked as he went on to have his two
shoulders placed against the mat in short order.
Jack Carkeek went close to being thrown a few
nights back by a man from Sydney fire station. Carkeek
was pinned with a strangling hold, and had the other
fellow' known alittle more the champion would certainly
have gone under. The Sydney novice referred to only
needs good coaching to make him formidable to the best
in the world. „
“Old Timer”: Re “Right Timer” (Bulletin
9/6/’O4). His memory is treacherous, not mine. VV fien i
said Christie was beaten by one punch I meant that that
single blow' settled all his pretensions, for afterwards it
was the sickest thing imaginable. It takes two to make a
fio-ht “ Old Timer” admits Christie was knocked doum
eight times in nine prize-ring rounds—all of which might
have been crowded intotwo Queensberry periods.
There was a strict-attention-to-business atmo-
sphere about the Toohey-Mackay fight, at Sydney Golden
Gate on Saturday night. Each bantam showed a proper
respect for the other, and proceedings opened with a long
sparring match for an opening. In the fourth round Toohey
crossed with his right, and Mackay spun round ana
dropped. After that his fighting lost its sting, and in tfie
fifth round he went down to one on the nose^
In the Robbo-Punch scrap at Sydney Gaiety
Club on Saturday night the latter evinced a capacity for
taking punishment that was quite foreign to the man w'ho
calls himself after a cheap sulky. For tw'o-and-a-half
rounds Robbo rained thumps on Punch as the heavens
rain affluence on the unjust, and then Punch got suddenly
tired o! acting’ as receiver-general, and lashed out. He
drove straight and hard on the body, and swung a hit on
the jaw with the right that sent Robbo to the boards with
a bang, where he was counted out.
* * * ♦
Strong man Gordon, of Fitzgerald’s circus, had
some excitement at a Sydney suburb last week while
carrying a horse up a double ladder. The neddie played
up at a critical moment, and in some way succeeded in
lacerating the arm and shoulder of the Hercules in a
manner that will keep him snugly in his little cot for a
few days. Most strong men, by the way, come to grief.
The original Hercules came to a lurid end because he
couldn’t get a stolen flannelette shirt off quick enough
after a spark from his cigar had set it on fire inside, ana
his imitators have mostly met an unobtrusive indi-
vidual with a small, pug nose projecting over his collar,
who has snapped them like a carrot over a question of
drinks, or else they have tripped over a piece of fluff ana
broken their magnificent, bull-like necks. The small, rat-
like individual who has neglected physical culture falls
softly, like baggy pants, every time, and dies of ripe old
a e e - .
Semi-final (on Saturday) of big Sydney bowling
event—Rawson Oup—was between Petersham and Ash-
field Clubs, and former won in every rink, full scores
being 126 and 92. Darkness settled down while play was
progressing on two rinks, and candles and matches were
much in request. In one rink Petersham had notched 28
to Ashfield’s 3, but latter made a final pull up by gather-
ing 20 while opposing side accumulated 11 more. Final
rests between City and Petersham, who also contested
the concluding match for the Pennant a few weeks ago.
Petersham players have won the Rawson Cup once, and
if they are successful this time it will become theirs abso-
lutely. ,
“Jock” : Recent remarkable golfing feat at
Hobart pales somewhat before a happening on Royal
Sydney (Bondi) links some time back, when three succes-
give players 44 holed” in one, two and three respectively,
and this while only guessing at the situation of the green,
the view of which was hidden by a close undergrowth.
* * * *
The cup which Gov. Rawson presented to the
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen for competition is respon-
sible for the institution of the 60-Mile Road Championship
of N.S.W., which will be run off annually. The first race
will be sometime in September, over the Parramatta-
Windsor course. In addition to the cup there will be a
blue riband and sundry cash prizes, the cup itself to be
won three times before becoming a permanent possession.
Anything which encourages road-racing is good, as pre-
paration for a road contest is one of the healthiest exer-
cises a human being can indulge in—if he does it properly.
Plenty of quiet, steady country riding, without any
forcing or straining, tones up the system wonderfully.
Erstwhile forefront Australian batsman, Harry
Moses, like W. G. Grace, W. L. Murdoch and co., “ down
under” has been a bowls player during past years.
Though always prominent he has this year capped every
previous effort, winning the individual supremacy of
New South Wales, meeting in the final one of the best and
most reliable performers the State owns, Captain Kondio
of Waverley Club, whom he beat 31 to 17.
* * * *
Amateur billiard championship of N.S.W. has
been dragging on at N.S.W. Sports Club since Tuesday
last week, and will finish this (Thursday) night. Play
generally has fallen very flat, for, bar holder J. B. Belfield
and Mr. Spencer, there were no good class men among
the five entrants. The prize—a gold medal—doesn’t fit
in with the notions of the general run of the billiard
“ amateur,” who, until the Sports Club took the thing in
hand, played for the “amateur championship” and a
“ gate,” and played every time the venture looked like
proving profitable. The billiard “amateur” also took a
hand in all money prize tournaments round town and ran
a billiard-room on his own. But all this has been altered
by the Sports Club, and amateur billiard players aren’t as
plentiful as the free-and-easy variety of the old days.
Belfield and Squires will meet in the final, which, bar
accidents, should be soft for Belfield, who runs a pub.
and a billiard-room—a fact that should blot him out as an
amateur.
* * * *
Announced in English papers that ex-British
champion swimmer, J. Haggerty, will essay the Channel
feat. Haggerty’s chance is good—he has the speed which
Holbein hasn’t, and is also a strongly determined man.
Only doubt is regarding the staying power to contend
against those little tricky effects from the coast, which
have so frequently beaten Holbein—one of the greatest
athletes of the age.
FARM ! FARM !
-_~w~r-rr> TTAVTP ¥01? SALE a splendid well-improved Earm containing 1000 acres divided into
W sd2s m^mdr^tio»>t P uated.Mle y , one of the t»t fa,mu«g d»t™te
in Queensland, about 1 mile from L “l dle J' iSraSU, Cottage, 4 Loose
train journey from Brisbane. Dwelling, Kitchen, btoreroom, Machinery included.
reasons ~ giv “ for
selling. Principals only dealt with.
HOLMES & CHURCH,
Creek Street, BRISBANE.
Bill and Jim and Jack now-a-days are well
provided with songs. Twenty years ago a book of songs
would cost anywhere from 3s. to 10s., but the new
little Crackajack Songsters, published by Allan’s of
Collins-street, Melbourne, are about the cheapest and
best we have yet seen. The books contain the best of the
Theatre songs, and well selected at that. Such songs as
“A Terrible Lot To Do To-Day,” “Don’t Sing A Coon
Song Please,” (Nat Clifford) “Since Bill Bailey Came
Back Home ” and dozens of others, all for the price of six-
pence. The book is also full of funny yarns, recitations,
and jokes. One catches our fancy very much, viz. “ Billy
B. Dam’s Reception.” If you send 7 stamps Allan’s will
send you a sample.*
Tortured by Rheumatism for Seven Years.
Mbs. Wood, 8 Pearson Street, Summer Hill,
Tells op the Magical Effect of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
People that have been great sufferers from any
complaint, and after trying many doctors and
many remedies without receiving any benefit,
when they do find the remedy that relieves them
of years of agony, are ready to publish abroad the
fact that they have been cured so that others who
suffer as they have, can take advantage of their
experience and receive like benefit. Such a one is
Mrs. Wood, of Summer Hill, whose case can best
be described in her own words:—
“lam very glad to be able to give this testi-
monial as to the benefit I have derived from Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I suffered for seven
years from rheumatism, tried all sorts of remedies
and consulted doctors, but with no avail. I was
persuaded to try Indian Root Pills, and the effect
was magical; I felt instant relief, and continued
to improve until I was perfectly cured. I am
indeed thankful, for I had given up all hope of
ever being cured. But lam now able to give this
positive statement that Indian Root Pills have
certainly cured me, and I hope and trust that this
testimony may have the effect of inducing people
to try this wonderful medicine, for I am convinced
that they are a perfect preventive against this
terrible trouble. You may use this statement m
any way you think fit.” . , ~ ,
Rheumatism is caused by uric acid m the blood.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier, driving out uric acid poison and all biliary
poisons. They make the blood rich and red.
They are a positive cure for biliousness, constipa-
tion, and all disorders that arise from a disordered
stomach and torpid liver. Packed in amber
bottles and sold throughout Australasia.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
LECT STOCK
AND
Ut
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


N. Guthridge, Ltd., is putting on the
Australian market a new concentrator, the Card,
of the Rittinger type. The machine, instead of
having riffles, has a series of longitudinal chan-
nels, having the same cross-section as the ordinary
gold-washing pan ; and there are other important
modifications, the result of long study and
experience.*
“Curlew”: Would like to protest, as a
farmer’s son, against the mouldy accusations
heaved indiscriminately at the man on the land.
For instance, the often reiterated statement that
it is impossible to get £1 a week clear at harvest-
ing. In this district (the triangle formed by
Bendigo, Mitiamo and Echuca, vie.) harvesting
wages are 355. a week and keep. The day is
10 hours, but that’s unavoidable. Crop must
come in. At other times of the year, 255., keep,
and an Bto 9 hours day. Again, the yarn is that
the farmers are unprogressive enough to fight shy
of the Labor platform in politics. Here they are
certainly strongly Protectionist, and they do fight
shy of the Labor party’s loudly-professed idea
of Socialism, and the State ownership of land.
They’ve worked hard enough for their scraps of
freehold to fight desperately against even the
remotest cry of tenantship, whoever poses as land-
lord. And I fail to see their mistake therein.
The Prohibitionists of Maoriland are
making capital out of the fact that the Newton
Licensing Committee, which refused to bestow
the boon of beer on its district last year, has
obeyed the decision of the Privy Council
compelling it to grant the licenses. “They
had shown a rare spirit of equity by re-
newing the licenses immediately upon receipt
of the news of the judgment of the Privy Council,”
declared the Skim Milk leader the other day.
“ They might have defied the judgment and
resigned or gone to gaol.” The “equity” dis-
played by a man who refuses to commit an act
involving gaol, is about as noble as the equity
of the msn who doesn’t cut his throat, when by
cutting his throat he might annoy his neighbor
next door.
Many fruitgrowers round Adelaide are in
,• , ,
ar “ s against a P ro Posed new Vegetation Diseases
anc * are calling the Jenkins Government
nasty names over it. As a matter of fact, the
Government is treating them with unusual defer
ence, having first circulated copies of the Bill and
then sent round its Chief Inspector of Fruit to
gather opinions. The Bill is constructed largely
°J*. the lines of the Tasmanian Act. What is
objected to is the clause that the fruit-grower shall
P a Y * or keeping his own orchard clean,
The man who drives the royal mail
The maid who carries the milking-pail
The stockman on the cattle run
The sportsman with his dog and gun
The watchman going his nightly round
The miner working under ground
All make themselves from colds secure
By using Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure *
„-
U* Ike lo members new to the just-elected
Victorian Assembly, though not all new to Par-
Lament, 10 are Labor men, two Independent, and
one Opposition.
Edward MacFarlane, who is the new
TTnrW q™ r™ t • at a t*t • , 0 , new
S* S * m fi 'c* StlU ul ? der
and yet is five years older than Curry, whom he
succeeds. Stipendiary MacFarlane, of the Sydney
bench, is a younger brother. When Crick got to
the Lands Department he found that most of the
red tape seemed to be in the head office and most
of the brains in the district offices : and he started
bringing the brains in. Among them" were
McMaster, McDonald, and MacFarlane three
surveyors who had reached their limit as local land
board chairmen, and had been out in the western
sands most of their working lives. McMaster is
now chairman of the Western Lands Board at
double his old salary, McDonald is a member of
that board, and MacFarlane reaches the Undei-
Secretaryship. When he was a land-board chair"
man out West the new Under-Sec. used to wear ?
tall silk hat, and it’s the only tall hat that mam a
bush youngster ever saw.
Father Robinson’s
11
RECORD
BAZAAR.
The GREATEST PRIZES Ever Offered.
The First Magnificent Prize:
The GORGEOUS MANSION situated in the picturesque suburb of
COOGEE, SYDNEY, and known as “ATHOL PARK.” Cost originally
over £BOOO, and is in perfect condition, ready for immediate occupation.
The Mansion is surrounded by Six Acres of tastefully laid-out grounds,
and is one of the loveliest residences in the Southern Hemisphere A
EIRST-CLASS RETURN TICKET (or its cash value, £115) FROM
SYDNEY TO LONDON will be given to the winner of the First Prize.
REMEMBER ! This is the First Prize—TWO GIFTS IN ONE :
The TITLE DEEDS, free of all encumbrances, of the above MANSION
and a FIRST-CLASS RETURN TICKET, Sydney to London, by any of
the Ocean Liners.
Several Other Valuable Prizes.
Tickets - - - - 5/6 each.
Apply FATHER ROBINSON, Camberwell, Victoria, for Tickets and
further particulars, or to Father Robinson, c/o Freeman’s Journal, Sydney.
THE DRAWING, which will be under the supervision of a thorough
expert, will take place absolutely on July 9th>
LAST DAYS! LAST DAYS!
We will take pleasure in mailing, upon application, free
of charge, List of Performances and Half-tone Picture of
CYCLE CHAMPION, DON WALKER.
Red Bird Bicycle Depot* 357 George St„ Sydney,
About two years ago a man named Moore,
of Wellington (M.L.) wrote threatening letters to
Joseph Ward, the Minister of Railways, and was
charged with threats to murder, and was acquitted
on condition that he left the colony. He left, but
fn 011 j C f m ? and just now he is laboring under
the delusion that Seddon is nearly related to the
Aimighty. Extract from a letter of his which the
JN./j. limes printed without a smile :
~ Thft these proposals should emanate from the head of
the Government is an evidence of truth in my recently-
made assertion that the political affairs of Maoriland are
® ,vm l guidance. Mr. Seddon acknow-
a j rl ?, believer in following the guidance
r™ f wwl e ’ . Md the number of most important and
remarkable proposals that his mind has evolved during his
= all^ lme - entl t les h i m t° he regarded as infallibly
n d A 1S n ,° m , easure °t importance among the
* he h i aS I ,la , ced on the Statute book of Maoriland
,™L haS P roved a fai] ure, and I contend that such extra-
]°ninnn I Zi^o eSS -+l a^® n - suedbecause the enactments are
in accordance with Divine plans.
The cheaper edition of Phil May in Aus-
tralia, well printed in crown folio size, and repro-
ucing Mays cartoons, portraits and humorous
drawings from the same blocks that were used for
\nV im p ed at 215., will be ready on Ist
6 £- 5 P° st free 2s. 10d., in return
for postal note to The Bulletin office.
ONI?GOFPFP p°AT S P^n a millionaire, there is ONI
That is «VE!HB. EE K r B i LA 0n:T0 STAY AT in SYDNE
litnated at 50 KING STREET 6 * ? offee Pa,ac e.”
Office b ~ ET ' and near the General P<
Proprietor — GEO. IY. ELLIS,
If you like a Book that is pure fun
from cover to cover, buy
“TWELVE EX-TANK TALES”
(First published in the New York Sun).
Crisp, Inimitable,
American.
Price 3S, ©CJ. P pa7d.
Dymock’s Book Arcade, 428 George-st., Sydney.
SNARPSNOOTINfa
M
. By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, Posted 1/2.
W. W. Greener’s New Ivlin.ature Club
Rifles, 310 and 297/23J. The Best H ties
on the market for Kangaroo Shooting
and Ladies’ Rifle Clubs.
W. W. Greener’s we I -known Guns, Match
Rifles, &c., Reloading Tools for 310
Rifles. A large stock on hand
Catalogues on application.
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative)
WILLIAMS’
I SOFTENS THE I
HARSHEST BEARD
Kg?”
' ""‘ - nut-2'5?
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
Every Bar weighs 17 Hor.est
English Ounces , divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never be without it.
3
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. ; Posted, Bd,
Q
u
E
E
N
S
T
* • i
CHAS GILBERT’S
SAVE TIME and MONEY.
Maybe you want a suit in a hurry—can’t wait for it to be tailored.
Maybe you don’t care to pay the cost of special cutting and fitting; and
maybe, at the same time you want Stylish, Becoming, Tasteful Clothes.
If this hits your case, you are the man we’re after. Our “ECONOMIC”
Read y-to-Wear Suits will fill your every need.
They’re extremely low in price, yet distinctly high-grade in fabric, fit
and finish. We make them ourselves, and sell them on our guarantee.
A multitude of Patterns in Medium and Heavy-weight Goods, including
Pure Indigo Blue Serges, at
25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-.
Any Size, carriage free, or made to your Special Measures for 5/- extra.
@“SEND US A TRIAL ORDER TO-DAY.
We’ll post you Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms on request, with
particulars of our next “Mail Order Competition,” which closes July 30th.
CHARLES GILBERT, Queen Street, Brisbane,
S PECIA LIT'IES
B
R
I
B
B
A
N
E
To Mine Managers, etc.
The
Quality
is
right.
tm
m
DUNLOP
MINING GOODS
are the highest quality
obtainable « «
Our Suction, Steam and Air
Hose, Stamper Valves,
Rubber Belting, Packing,
®.c., are unapproached for
QUALITY and PRICE.
SAMPLES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION
THE DUNLOP TYRE CO.
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PEN
ANO CHRISTCHURCH. N.J
The
Price
is
right.
Illustrated Catalogue on application.
■BO Clarence Street, Sydney.


N.S.W. Government is now being urged
to pay a straight-out bonus to anybody who will
occupy open lands in the north-west, where the
rabbit pest has broken out afresh
More talk in N.S.W. about floating a loan
to buy back the State’s alienated lands m lots for
closer settlement. One Government and another
borrowed some £80,000,000 to improve the lands,
sold them as improved, and spent the price ol tne
improvements (paid for out of loans) as revenue.
And now the same old Micawber institution pro-
poses to buy back those alienated lands with more
borrowed money, and when it has done that it will
probably sell the lands again and lose the run ot
the proceeds.
The Pastoralists’ Review, a paper which
prints the Australian squatters’ opinions upon a
few things, gave away a valuable truth the other
We see no reason to exert ourselves-to prevent the State
purchasing large estates, so long as it is not done bv com-
pulsion. The advent of a large cash purchaser dike a
State Government into the real estate market is a boon to
landholders. !
Which shows the hollowness of the repurchase
business unless it is accompanied by a stiff land
tax. Even then the known fact that the State is
a buyer will inflate prices unless it has the power
to purchase any estate, without bargaining, at a
slight and fixed advance upon the owners own
valuation for land-tax purposes. And even that
isn’t enough ; the means with which to purchase
promptly must also be m the hands of the State.
A man isn’t afraid of a gun if he knows it isn t
loaded.
“ From compositor’s case to portfolio ” or
“from printer to Prime Minister’’have been the
two silly gibes hurled at Premier Watson by every
Tory rag, the staff of which imagined itself of the
bluest blood, aristocratic. Well, anyhow, it is a
better record than “ from portfolio to /prison,
which has more often been the case with the. bat-
man legislators of Australia. One Melbourne
sheet wailed bitterly that the Government of the
Commonwealth was now m the hands of uncul-
tured men who could not quote Latin correctly
and knew nothing of algebraic equations. Imagine
this sort of thing from papers jhich support
Bounder Bent, the man who talked of concil-
iating the Statues” as though the statutes were all
wild g beast enactments like Irvine s Strike Sup-
pression Bill, and had to have meat offered them
to soothe them. Also, imagine Pumpkin Smith
discoursing to the House and interlarding his
speech with apropos Latin quotations. Likewise
Ere comic man Reid, who boasts that he never
reads a book, as a specimen of culture and learn-
ing ! , , ,
When our navy shall sweep o er the seas
Not the subsidized navy of Ned—
God bless him ! we’ll tackle the breeze,
And the battle, and breakers ahead,
With a knowledge—no matter how coaled
That we’ll steer both swift and secure ■
Through the cold-cutting seas of coughs and of
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
One of Brighton Bent’s election dodges
was to pack off the most clamorous of the un-
employed to Moe prior to June Ist. Ihen
he went around loudly bellowing— Who says
I’ve shifted them out of the road ? I tell yer the
man’s a liar who says it. What’s the howl for .
Ain’t they got the blooming vote by post. What
more do they want ? ” But Bent didnt add that
voting by post means a good deal of personal
inconvenience, including the getting of officers
signatures twice, and that, just at the psycho-
logical moment, he had dumped the men in a
demmed, damp, demnition hole, seven miles
from a township, at contract work, with inade-
quate shelter, and small sums for their bare
sustenance (the rest being kept back for their
families). Probably Bent had a fair idea that,
after a hard day’s work in the cold and slush, the
most turbulent Democrat would jib at a wmtery
14-mile walk, even to throw a rock at I nomas.
It has been .wired all over Australia that
railway-contractor and mine-owner, G. 0. Will-
cocks, interviewed in Queensland —
Spoke gravely of the effects already being experienced
from the Government proposal to pass an Arbitration
Bill. Agents representing large amounts of capital
informed him that if the Federal Arbitration Bill passed,
the development of North Queensland would be retarded
indefinitely.
This shows how much ignorance as well as capital
an agent may represent. If there’s one part of
Australia more than another which would never
know that a Federal Arbitration Bill has been
passed it is North Queensland, which works
almost absolutely “on its own and has very little
connection with any other States—except to get
money from them to feed its wild-cats on. -t>u
the “agents representing large amounts of capital
apparently don’t know that the Federal Arbi-
tration law would only take cognisance of disputes
“ affecting Two or more States.”
The latest evidence of the evil effect of the
Knight-blight that fell upon Alex. Peacock about
the year 1901 is the discovery that he ordered BdOO
worth of biograph films and pictures of the inci-
dents of the Duke of York’s visit. These silly
pictures were delivered, paid for, and piled away
carefully in the cellars attached to the office of
the Government Printer, where moth and rust do
corrupt. In the first Turner Government Pea-
cock was a good fighter and an active adminis-
trator. About 1901 he went to pieces He got
married, took a knighthood, allowed himself to
become associated with a lot of weak incompetents
like Sammy Gillott, spent money lavishly on the
Dukoyork’s visit, got tangled up in an absurd
business regarding the secret resignation of his
Ministers (including Sammy Gillott), accepted
£5O from the foreign insurance bagman Montague,
was turned out of office by Irvine, M Kenzie and
co., and finally went into Opposition, and became
the most abjectly servile supporter that Iceberg
Irvine ever had. And now, a draggled bird with
only one feather left in its tail lingers m the desert
of contumely, and when last seen was shambling
miserably towards oblivion.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, shoe-
lane, London, England.*
“D.” : The spectacle of the Deform can-
didates waiting to be selected by the league
reminds me of a cocky’s family selecting a hen
for the Easter festivities. The' fattest bird is
picked, and the silly fowl thinks she is being
taken inside for private meals and a front-room
roost, and is considerably astonished at finding
herself dead. The cocky selection committee picks
the bones of the fowl after its decease to keep up
the resemblance.
“ J.S.” : I wish to direct my friend Bruce
Smith’s attention to condition 2 of the terms under
which the Royal Naval Reserve is to be estab-
lished in Australia. It reads : ‘‘ No applicant will
be accepted unless he is a British subject, of
European race, able to write and speak the English
language .” The italics are mine. Are our fellow
British subjects, the Pathans and Goorkhas, the
Hong Kong boatmen, and others to be excluded
from stoking a boiler or pulling an oar on behalf
of the empire ? Perish the thought. Are the
rulers of the navy mad to thus hurl an insult at
our dusky fellow-subjects, &c., &c. ? I feel sure
Mr. B. Smith, like myself, will feel obliged to
withdraw our allegiance unless this iniquitous
regulation is abolished.
Ex-Speaker Steward (M.L.) has circulated
his new Elections Bill. The ancient warrior is
appalled at the number of informal votes cast
every time, and reckons that the only way to re-
duce the number is to do away with ballot papers
altogether. His original idea was to hand each
elector a card, carrying his electoral number, pro-
vide a separate box for each candidate, and let the
voter drop the card in the box of the man he
wants to vote for. To that comparatively simple
plan he has added the suggestion that every candi-
date should be at liberty to tack his photo on to
his own box, for purposes of identification. iHE
Bulletin’s idea is that he should also be allowed
to tack his wife’s on, along with a certificate from
his mother-in-law that he has been all that a hus-
band should be. Also, in a country which seems
more anxious than usual to encourage large fami-
lies, there would be points about picturing the
whole crowd.
&he Greatest Success Ever Known
in the History of the Cig'ar Trade
“Matador
d.
•3IC
(Green Bands),
«MATADOR” Cigars are the most
wonderful value ever offered for
Threepence. They draw freely and
have a particularly good flavour,
being made from the finest Havana
leaf.
&
W
“ I’m all right*—it’s a Matador,”
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
SHAKESPEARIAN THERAPEUTICS.—
If anything can “ minister unto a mind diseased
it is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, which will “ cleanse
the stuff’d bosom of the perilous stuff which
weighs upon the heart.” It is an arsenal of
therapeutics, being speedy, sure and gentle.
M
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID j
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleans ng Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB &. CQ. S LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
M
DIABETES
Patients will hear of
something to their ad-
vantage by writing to
the Diabetic Institute,
St. Dunstan’s Hill, Lon-
don, E.C.
NOTHING TO PAY.


Two of S. Australia’s three Judges are the
sons of parsons, and so are the police magistrates
in Adelaide and the State’s one large provincial
centre. It is fairly typical of the say the parson
has in S. Australia’s affairs.
“B.”: He was fat, full of blasphemy, and
displayed several panels of mud across black
trousers when I turned the corner, almost running
into him. He was an M.L.C., of long ancestry
and weird wealth, and, having seen me occasionally
taking notes of his sonorous platitudes in “another
place,” he appeared to realise that he had struck
the press in the hour of real need. A tram jerk
had thrown him off the footboard, panelling him
with mud. He lectured me, partly as if I were
the responsible individual, partly as if I were a
large public meeting. The whole thing was
intended ; it was socialism against respectability
and stake in the country. Ha, ha ! He saw it in
the driver’s eye, a,s soon as he attempted to get
off; and there was a Labor member on the tram
at the same time ! “Did I want further proof?
Did I not feel it my public duty to show such
conspiracies up ? Did I not feel that our insti-
tutions were being undermined, and that the Con-
stitution was blowing loosely down the street ?
Did I not ? ” I interrupted him, and said I did.
A plain brown strip of ordinary human
kindness crept into the proceedings of a M.L.
local body which was distributing charitable aid
the other day. The applicant was a woman with
a sick child, the sum was 7s. Gd. a week, and the
local policeman had reported adversely upon the
morals of the recipient. A pious councillor hurl ed
anathema around generally, and strongly opposed
the subsidising of “prostitution.” These remarks
met with approval, until a small and habitually
silent man arose and suggested that 7s. 6d.
was not sufficient to sustain life in a moral manner,
and he moved that the sum be increased to 12s. 6d.
The motion was passed before the moral opposition
recovered from a dead faint, but it was finally de-
cided that the increased dole be paid only as long
as the police were satisfied that the recipient bore
some resemblance to Caesar’s missus. Five shil-
lings extra for being above suspicion !
“ Hiphen Saw, one afternoon last week,
outside Prince’s Bridge station, Melbourne, a
pauper’s funeral, en route to Spring Vale Ceme-
tery. _ There was a gloomy soap-box-on-wheels
contrivance, masquerading as a hearse. Two
frayed and ancient attendants drew, with much
straining and groaning, a couple of bare black
coffins from the bowels of the conveyance, and
dropped them side by side on the pavement. Out
of respect for the unmoneyed dead, the two
ancients removed their hats. One of them hung
his rusty-black head-covering from a knob at the
corner of the low roof of the hearse. Then they
placed the long bare boxes on a railway trolly and
went off at a rheumatic trot down the platform.
On the whole, I would rather be cremated.
Learn Shorthand.
at Home by Correspondence*
■ l O weekly lessons will make you perfect.
OBTAIN HIGHER SALARY.
Shorthand is nowadays indispensible to every-
body. Utilise spare time. Very moderate
fee. We procure positions. Write for
free booklet.
CENTRAL CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
215 Temple Chambers,
TEMPLE AVENUE, LONDON, E.C.
WW Russo=Japanese War.
A Fine Series of
LANTERN SLIDES
to illustrate above; also many other new and
popular subjects now in stock.
Send for Slide List to
W. WATSON & SONS,
78 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
OATEN’S
Patent Adjustable
Horse & Cow Rugs.
HGRSc RjtJS, Patent Adjustable Fastening's
Pstent Tan Waterproof Canvas, check lined, sft., 17/6 ;
6in. 18/6; 6ft., 19/6; 6ft. 6in., 20/6. Extra Super
Canvas, check lined, sft., 14/9; sft. 6in., 15/9;
bit., 17/3 ; 6ft. 6in., 18/3. Super. Bleached Canvas, check
lined, sft., 13/6 ; sft. 6in., 14/6 ; 6ft., 15/9 ; 6ft. 6in., 16/6.
Bleached Canvas, check lined, sft., 12/-; sft. 6in., 13/-;
bit., 14/-; 6ft. 6in., 15/-. Ordinary, with surcingle and
breast strap only, brown canvas, sft., 7/6 ; sft. 6in., 7/9;
6ft-, 8/6 ; 6ft. 6in., 8/9.
COW RUGS, Patent Adjustable Fastenings.
Best Navy Canvas, check lined, sft., 9/9 ; sft. 6in., 10/6.
Brown Canvas, check lined, sft., 7/6; sft. 6in., 8/6.
Urdinary Square Cut, Surcingle and Breast Girth only,
best Navy Canvas, check lined, 4ft., 7/6. Brown Canvas,
check lined, 4ft., 6/-. '
A customer from Korumburra writes me, he lost ahorse
or three months in the scrub with one of these rugs on.
When found, the rug was in its place on the horse.
Write for Particulars,
JAMES OATEN
Patentee & Wholesale
flanufacturer,
403 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
V
J
>‘u.”- L1
G'IM‘M ‘
OUR GLADIATOR
ELECTKIO BELT will make a WEAK MAN
STRONG, Cure Rheumatism, Nervous and
Wasting- Weakness, Sciatica, Lame Back,
\ ancocele, and all Liver, Stomach, Kidney
and Bladder Troubles. Price Lists and
Latest Testimonials post free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
PETTY’S HOTEL
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
This old-established Family Hotel is now undergoing’
extensive alterations, and, when completed, will be
perfect in every detail for the comfort of visitors.
CUPIT, late Oriental Hotel, Melbourne.
Visitors to the Old, Cotnytry’
SOUTH KENSINGTON
HOTEL
Queen’s London,S.W?
CONSIDERABLY.
EN LA R GED—NO TED
FOR ITS COMFORT
& CONVENIENCE
‘I in
’I
o «(a ‘
t Y!
H NJEL ill/'5:
o "I a
Y «:7
T
30““
g‘
ONE OF THE
MOST FASH/ONABLE
'HOTELS fN
LONDON
Wire Cloth Weavers.
Eﬁiiii‘
-:::::::
ﬁmﬁﬁal
Makers of all Kinds . ♦
In Steel, Iron, of Wove Wire
Galvanised, Copper, and Brass.
WE HAKE A SPECIALITY OF.
HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
We have the BEST MEN and
LATEST MACHINERY.
We would be pleased to get In communication with
those interested in Wire Cloth.
WE WILL BE FOUND QUICK, CIVIL, OBLIGING AND CHEAP.
{Pl-1
1 II
LIE
Iii-“I!
III!
III!
...';
{iii—i?
Mllll‘
'Illlﬁ
;lllll
Ll!!!”
...-iii?
:Inll-m
gut-nu
ll!!!
III I . I
mguuu
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
mu "i warn h—BPl
409 # 411 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Factories: 533 A Cearge St., and Albion Lane.
P.O. Box 858. Telehione 2075.
ROBERTS' HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
Has just been re-furnished and renovated throughout in the most up-to-date style, and
close attention to the comfort of its guests makes it an easy first in the public’s esteem.
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2.30; DINNER, 5.30 till 7.30
Special Feature-RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL
SYD3VTEY.
CHES
_ Stem winding
Lever escapement
The best pocket timepieces
In the world . •
m
xx
'
II
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
Ganz Induction Motor. SOLE AGENTS :
The gostral Otis Engineering So., [td., South Hjelb
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
1' L:- '3— » . .
: 1! [Li/44- 3
I ‘ I '~ LL,
\
r *'
3 ‘ k. ‘
I Uh“; :‘E ‘..
' ' géé—JJ;"3;I.
rg’agi‘vu 71'. ‘
~ £711.35 ‘ :i‘, : «
f “f 5:21;” ‘1'? :Ib' ‘
_ g_ It lggé¥.; ;. . 'Ir [*7 ‘
-=.. -~ 5mm 1 e 1 -:
E' ». In-‘av‘m‘f":’:~ 1;
u Vang-gis‘q‘. «s , ,,<
....-. .7'~,V .s-m
,« ”s. ._ _‘ ,S’
Melbourne . Branch —
VV. WOOLLEY and SON,
Equitable Building.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and CO.,
Brisbane.
Catalogues Free.
BE PROGRESSIVE. Do you believe in NEW IDEAS
and NEW METHODS? Then use
WABASH BUSINESS SYSTEMS.
They Cut down TIME and LABOR—does that
mean money to you ?
The PRINCIPAL has “grip” and control of
affairs hitherto unknown.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St,, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
%A#IM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
"* Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9e. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Martin's Acetylene Gas.
M
Our Reliable
HUNDREDS
NOW IN USE
FOR
ILLUMINAT-
ING
TOWNS,
HOSPITALS,
HOTELS,
SCHOOLS OF
ARTS,
BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS, PRIVATE DWELL-
INGS, etc.
A GENTS WANTED in every town in the Common-
wealth. We put money in the pockets of those who
secure orders for us. §pgr* Write For Particulars.
Send for our Booklet, No. 56— ARTIFICIAL DAYLICHT,
and How to Make It. Also our Catalogue of Gas Fittings
for Coal or Acetylene.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
JAMES MARTIN AND CO.,
161 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LADIES’
Beautiful Transformations
of Natural Wavy Hair,
from 425.
Semi-Transformations to reach from ear to ear,
from 21s. Fringes from 5s 6d each. Switches
of Hair, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, and up to £2 2s.
Your own combings made up into Switches at
2s 6d per oz.
CRAIG and AITKEN,
HAIR IMPORTERS,
654 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
HYPNOTISM.
PERSONAL MAGNETISM, Etc. By our system you
* can learn this wonderful Science at home. It enables
£ ure D . lseases > Bad Habits, such as DRUNKEN-
NESS, Etc., win Reluctant Affection, create amusement
make friends and money, and gratify your highest ambi-
tions. We absolutely guarantee success. Our book on
Hypnotism, Personal Magnetism, etc., Richly Illustrated
throughout with Photos from Life of Persons Hypnotised
is the finest work of its class ever issued, is intensely in-
teresting, and has been the means of starting thousands
on the road to success. Send three stamps for Book, post
free, and test for yourself this remarkable power. The
American Institute op Science, Victoria Buildings, Eliza
beth-street, Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS CURED
ss-
THE REHEDY can be given
in Tea, Coffee, or Food, thus
Secretly Curing the patient
without his knowledge.
Mrs. J. HATTON,
who cured her husband with
Eucrasy, writes us that she has
cured also a near and dear rela-
tive, and makes a most earnest
appeal to all other women to
save the drunkard. We will post Free Book of References
and Testimonials from hundreds who have been cured
and everything needed to aid you in saving those dear to
you from a life of ultimate poverty and disgrace.
ADDRESS—
THE E ITCH AST CO.,
62 HUNTER St,, SYDNEY.
: 1 .
ASTHMA WRED
home TO STAY CURED. Causes removed.
Health restored. Attacks nevei* return. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever Patients in
Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, and
America. By Mail only. Not sold in stores. Write for
Book 32C, FREE, postpaid. Dr. P. Harold Hayes’
Asthmatic Institute, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.


Some of the over-sold speculators in Mt. Lvells
uon t like the stiffness of the market. If Gregory's report
means anything it suggests that new ore bodies may be
found in the vicinity of the North Lyeli deposit. And
this is where the diamond drill is proving of use. Sticht
has been doing wonderful smelting work of late, and that
has not been consolatory to the market “shorts.” Still
they have a very fair wicket, even on Sticht’s own
showing. ~
* * * *
Kelly, Jamieson, Tulloek, and others of
the Mt. Lyeli crew have a new tin show in the Stanley
district (Tas.). The recollection of Mayne’s still lives
a spectre to haunt investors. Kelly and Co. will therefore
probably have to work the new mine on their own. If
fools, however, want to help them, no doubt they will be
permitted to do so.
* * * *
* s to k® floated with a capital of
£lO,OOO to develop a reef of greenstone at Milford Sound
(M.L.). Basing a calculation on the work already done it
is estimated that the stone can be delivered in Dunedin at
a cost of 6d. a pound ; and experts value it at from 3s. to
7s. 6d. a pound in the rough, at which figure there’s a
good market in London. It is wisely proposed, however
to have the stone cut and polished by the co.’s own ex-
perts, and to export the article in its finished state.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,— When the iniquities of the
middleman butter-trader have been officially dealt with,
the Victorian “ Royal Commission ” will presumably dry
up. But why not appoint a perpetual commission to
reveal the swindles of the middleman in all those lines
which concern the local consumer as well as the local
producer ? The trades in buchers’ meat, and bacon, for
instance, are ruled by the ravenous middleman. Does
the farmer, benefit to the full extent of the difference
between cheap and dear flour ? It seems to be always the
middleman who waxes fat on what the townspeople and
town horses eat.—E.
* * * *
Devonport, the centre of Tasmanian “spud-
land,” noted as the most progressive and hitherto prosper-
ous port in the island, is suffering bad times now as a
result of the low price of the ’tater. Last year, when
spuds realised from £4 to £6 a ton, the farmers had a
right royal time; and piano agents did good business.
The potato business ran into hundreds of thousands of
tons (from 20,000 to 25,000 bags going out every week)
This year a price of £1 per ton makes a dismal difference.’
From a Perth man : “ Gloomy reports are
coming down from Broome, centre of Westralian pearling
trade. Price of shell is so low that three-fourths of the
boats are laid up, and unless an improvement takes place
before the end of the j'ear Broome will about snuff out.
Pearling and business partnerships are being dissolved
and most of the old hands are pulling up their pegs!
Captain Biddles, one of the principal pearlers and property
owners, has practically given Broome best, and is laying
hold of property nearer the capital.”
* * » *
“Technicon” replies to “ Waddy ” on the
subject of the rush of mining students :—“ Very few
indeed think that management work is easy to get; the
fact that three years practical work is necessary merely
to qualify precludes that idea. They all recognise that
while such prejudiced persons as ‘ Waddy ’ (and there are
many of them) have influence in the mining profession,
a University degree is a distinct hindrance to advance-
ment ; but at the same time they realise that, other
things being equal, they will have a better grasp of their
work than will the purely practical man. His statement
that the successful students, without exception, con-
sider they are quite equal to taking 1 the management
of Mt. Morgan, if it was offered them ’ shows
that he doesn’t know what he is talking about. Not
one of the large number of graduates and students
that I am acquainted with considers himself capable of
assuming, the responsibility of management without first
obtaining practical experience—a fact which ‘Waddy’
practically admits by saying that students besiege mine
managers 1 with applications for experience-work when
they have finished at the University. His statement that
they are not worth their salt as far as work is concerned,
will not bear investigation ; he himself contradicts it
when he sarcastically allows that ‘ they might make good
hammermen.’ Let him refer to. Broken Hill, Charters
Towers, Hillgrove, and other places, and he will find he is
wrong. Doe-s it not show grit that these young fellows,
who, most of them, have never done any heavy physical
labor before, cheerfully take off their coats and do their
‘ three years hard ’ without a murmur? When all points
are considered, it must be admitted that the reward is not
in any way commensurate with the time, money, and labor
(mental and physical) spent.”
* * * *
Murkan deep-mine men have been laughing at
Bendigo’s attempt to cool the 3600 ft. workings with ice.
Alleged that at Comstock “ about 2700 men were kept at
work by blowing in air through a pipe in temperatures
often 20 to 30deg. higher than those in the Australian
mine,” and that men worked under this system at 174 deg.
Same plan was adopted in railway tunnelling in the Alps.
The N.S.W. Master Bakers’ Association has
now reduced the price of bread from 3d. to 2Jd. This
has only been done as a result of public clamor. The fall
in the price of flour justified the reduction months ago,
but the masters put off talk of reduction on the plea of
“ the Arbitration Court making the conditi ons of labor is
much dearer.” When this dodge had been exposed, there
was nothing for it but a. climb down, which was hastened
by the fact that some of the more reputable members of
the trade on their own initiative reduced the selling price.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Julius Knight, who isn’t afflicted with lack of appreci-
ation of his own legs, fell in badly at a Sydney club the
other evening. Asked what he thought of Australian
critics he replied contemptuously : “ Australian critics !
What do they know about the stage ? They’ve never seen
acting ” “No 1 You’re quite right, old fellow ; they
have not,” enthusiastically interrupted one of the com-
pany.
Beauteous Elsie Moore attracted the attention of the
hoary Prophet Elijah, who was a fellow passenger of the
singer by the Mongolia to England. The giddy old seer
played billiard tournaments with the bright-eyed, pretty,
young actress and gave a dinner to celebrate her birth-
day. The taming of the ill-mannered Elijah Stinkpot was
a good advertisement for Elsie, and a girl who can do that
should make her way in England. When she appears in
America, Dowie is quite capable of building a theatre at
Zion expressly for her vise.
A leading dramatic star has thinned down to such an
unprofessional extent that all her garments have to be
furnished with wing draperies or elbow hangings in order
to conceal the scragginess of her funny-bone.
Madame Alva died last week of consumption. She was
the tall, showy operatic soprano (Italian school) whom
Lemmone imported to Australia along with tenor
Edwards and Adela Verne, the pianiste. Alva’had a full-
sized notion of her own importance, and she was, in fact,
a recognised minor “star” in London and some of the
European cities, but her somewhat hard voice didn’t
charm Australia.
There is money in burnt-cork and Vulcana’s beautiful
back. Rickards, of Sydney Tiv. and Melbourne Opera
House, has bought Lansdowne, a large house at Darling
Point (Sydney), and at one time the home of merchant
Christopher Newton ; he will pull it down, and build an
up-to-date mansion. The Variety man now occupies
explorer Mitchell’s historic home, Carthona, in the same
locality.
May Yohe, late of the British nobility, can now be
heard at Glasgow Pavilion for 3d. In all the Glasgow
music-halls the .prices range from 3d. upwards, and not
much upwards.
“ S.T.S.” : See how much more conventional the drama
remains than fiction. Raffles, the “amateur cracksman,”
as Hornung wrote him, was a burglar absolute, who only
differed from the usual kind in having the training of a
gent*3man, and dining at the house he proposed to rob a
few hours later. He was an “amateur” much as
McLaren is and, by the same token, Raffles was a great
cncketer, and bowled for the Gentlemen of England. But
on the stage it is felt that a real burglar would estrange
sympathy and affect the booking ; so he just burgles for
fun and puts back what he gets ; in fact becomes an
idiot instead of an intelligent being just abnormal enough
to be interesting.
“Spinifex”: Medical evidence in the
Castlereagh-street (Sydney) tragedy showed that
Winifred Pownceby (who, by the way, was right-
handed) was shot in the left side of the head,
while the revolver was held in the hand of the
male deceased ; yet a letter, alleged to have been
written by the woman, was produced, in which
she stated her intention of killing herself and her
lover, _who was then asleep. Police doctor said
.twas impossible for her to have placed the revolver
m Walker’s hand after shooting herself, so the
j^ r y found that the male deceased had fired both
shots. Doesn’t seem to have occurred to anyone
that the woman might, after shooting her lover,
have placed the revolver in his hand before shooting
herself, then raised it to her temple and pressed
uis lifeless finger on the trigger. Reason—prob-
ably the usual feminine reason, “Just because.”
This theory would account for the entrance wound
being on the left side of the woman’s head, as the
man was lyings on that side, and it would have
been only possible for her to shoot herself in the
side of the head nearest him. Fantastic idea,
perhaps; but —so was the other.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
The man or woman who wants a £BOOO home for
ss. 6d. will have to hustle, as the days left for securing'
tickets in Father Robinson’s Record Bazaar raffle are
running out, and the drawing will positively take place
on July 9th. Beside the first prize, the beautiful Coogee
mansion, Athol Park, and a first-class return trip to
London, or its equivalent, £ll5 in cash, the rest of the
prizes pale into comparative insignificance ; but all the
same they will be a splendid return for the investment of
6s. 6d.*
Ready on Ist July the Cheaper Edition of
Phil Mat in Australia, with some two hundred
samples of the celebrated artist’s talent. Portraits
of Henry Parkes, Cardinal Moran, Peter Lalor,
and many others. Cartoons of “ The Mongolian
Octopus,” “ Harmony,” and many others. Hu-
morous pictures of “A Curiosity in Her Own
Country,” “Honor Among Spielers,” “Jumps
and Jim-Jams,” “Measuring the Baby,” and
many others. The series of “ Things We See
When We Go Out Without Our Gun.” With
biographical preface.. Admirable reproductions
on good paper. Price, Half-a-Crown; posted,
2s. lOd. from The Bulletin office.
JHE EDISON RECORD EXCHANGE PARLORS.
Send your N.M. Phonograph Records and change them
for others—ss. dozen exchange. Best selection, New
and S.H. Machines and Records Bought and Sold.
Address : 20 Linden Court, Market-street, Sydney.
6»
m
Bat) Smells
are Danger Signals!
“SANITAS”
Disinfecting
Powder
Spreads the Healthful Aromatic
vapours of Eucalyptus and Pine
Forests wherever it is used.
Destroys all bad smells,
3s a Splendid Deodorant,
Better than Carbolic jffciS.
By its use Closets, Stables, Kennels, Cattle- 1
Sheds, Urinals, Ash-bins, Drains, Cesspools, I
etc., can be kept entirely free from offensive '
smell and disease.
Possesses Powerful Oxydislngr Properties. 4
THE STRONGEST
disinfecting
POWDER on the Market.
THE “SANITAS” CO. LTD.,
BETHNAL GKEEN, LONDON, E
SHORTHAND BY POST.-*®
gjTOTT & HOARE’S Business College
Teaches the only known system of Shorthand which
will do high-grade, practical, money-earning work.
Our Course of Lessons is easy and fascinating, and
ensures the rapid attainment of proficiency. Our Teachers
are the most highly qualified in Australasia.
“ HO./IE STUDY,” containing full particulars of our
courses of tuition by mail, post free or on application.
Reductions to Clubs of two or more students.
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET OF
THE LIVERPOOL AND LONDON AND GLOBE INSURANCE CO.
31st DECEMBER, 1903.
LIABILITIES.
Funds per Revenue Account .. .. £10,767,070 11 7
Claims, Life Policies out-
standing- .. .. £61,723 0 1
Claims, Fire Policies out-
standing .. .. 184,745 17 5
£246,468 17 6
Other sums owing—
Dividends.. £3,372 0 0
Amounts
due other
Companies 96,376 13 2
And Current
Accounts.. 20,480 5 4
£120,228 18 6
■ £366,697 16 0
£11,133,768 7 7
ASSETS.
Mortgages on Property
in United Kingdom £135,928 7 8
Mortgages on Property
in British Colonies,
etc. 1,037,404 2 8
Loans on the Company’s Life
Investments :
British (Government
Securities
United States Govern-
ment and Municipal
Securities
Colonial Government
and M unicipal Secur-
ities
Foreign Government
and Municipal Secur-
ities
Office Premises and
House Property
Bonds, Shares, Deben-
tures
Life Interests, Rever-
sions,' etc. .. .. 605,
Ground Rents and Land 45
Policies..
119,452 3 0
673,012 14 7
540,920 18 9
139,583 9 0
1,345,731 9 6
,848 9 11
4,884,!
,077 15 11
,651 3 11
Agents’ Balances, outstanding Premi-
ums, and Interest accrued
Other Assets, Amounts owing to Co.,
Local Boards, etc.
Cash on Deposit and on Current Account
£1,173,332 10 4
143,116 15 10
8,354,278 4 7
562,934 9 7
290,893 6 4
609,213 0 11
£11,133,768 7 7
ABSTRACT OF RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURE.
Funds Ist January, 1903
Receipts since :
Fire Premiums (net)
Life and Annuity Purchases, Interest, etc.
Receipts at Suspense Account
£10,468,265 18 11
£2,067,194 12 2
753,945 8 5
2,821,140 0 7
27,397 3 8
Disbursements—
Life Claims £308,979 6 5
Annuity Payments .. .. 208,369 14 6
Life Expenses
Fire Losses (net)
Expenses, including' State Taxes
Dividends .. ..
Globe Annuitants
Permanent Fire Policy decreased
Balance in Funds per Detailed Balance Sheet..
£13,316,803 3 2
£517,340 0 11
32,942 17 4
1,043,512 10 1
' 685,939 7 11 '
£2,279,743 16 3
221,076 0 0
47,351 9 6
—r 265,427 9 6
1,561 5 10
£2,549,732 11 7
10,767,070 11 7
3 2
A CERTAIN CURE FOR ASTHMA
Only 5/-
COMPLETE,
With supply of
Inhalant.
EASY TO USE AND VERY PLEASANT.
DR. JENNER’S
GERMICIDE INHALER
CURES
ASTHMA, CATARRH, BRONCHITIS, COLDS, SORE THROATS, &C.
Available in an Instant.
gr ABSOLUTELY FREE FROM NARCOTICS
■you inhale the vapor of Soothing Pine Balsams, and the inflamed membranes are at once
relieved and soon completely cured. More than one hundred thousand persons nave been
cured by the use of Ur. Jeuuer's Inhaler in England and Canada within the past five \ears.
Highly recommended by doctors and by medical publications. When once charg dit is ready
for Instant use at any time without requiring heat or preparation of any kind, so that it is
immediately available to arrest the terrible paroxysms A bottle of Soothing Inhalant is given
with each apparatus, containing sufficient for about one month's use, and, if required, a
further supply can be had at 1/- per bottle (posted 1/2) When inhaled through the glass buib,
in accordance with the printed directions, a very pleasant and soothing vapor, (absolutely
free from any narcotic properties) is at once produced, resembling smoke in its’ appearance.
This penetrates to every part of the inflamed air passages, immediately allaying the pain and
restoring the breathing as if by the touch of a magician. We have secured the exclusive
right to sell this valuable apparatus throughout Australia and Now Zealand, and in order
to make its wonderful qualities quickly known, we offer it at the special price of 6(-, carriage
end duty paid. You should order at once, as our present stock is limited, aud this advertise-
ment will not appear again for some mouths. Send your order with remittance in registered letter to
The Union Manufacturing and Agency Company,
359-361 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing whereabouts THOMAS
WILLIAM IRVING, formerly Long-
warry South, Vic., please communicate
MRS. J. C. MORRISON,
Cheltenham P. 0., Victoria.
TNFORMATION Wanted of KEZIA GRISTWOOD, who
left Hemel Hempstead, Hertforshire, England, for
Australia about 1850. Nephew, son of brother Henry,
enquires. Australian papers please copy.
H. E. GRISTWOOD, 24 Marmont Road,
Peckham, London, S.E.
Amusements.
RITE ri on theat r e, syd im ey.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST PERFORMANCES OF
The Marriage of Kitty.
On SATURDAY, JUNE 26, Production of the Famous
Hay market Comedy,
COUSIN KATE.
Preceded by MADAME BUTTERFLY.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Prices and Day Tickets as Usual,
|JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 8.
TO-NIGHT, at 7.45. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
Mr. TREE’S FAMOUS COMPANY.
(From His Majesty’s Theatre, London), in the World.
Renowned Japanese Play, which is now creating an
Extraordinary Sensation in London,
THE DARLING OF THE GODS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. IgT* PRICES AS USUAL.
THEATRE royal, sydnev.
■ Lessee .. .. .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. .. BLAND HOLT.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Social and Political Melodrama,
THE PRICE OF PEACE.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s & Is. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8. Matinee Every Wednesday.
MR. GEORGE STEPHENSON’S
NEW MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY in
THE ROSE OF THE RIVIERA.
a® - the success of all successes i
Box Plan at Paling’s. 43T PRICES—3s., 25., and Is.
BOOKING FEE, ONE SHILLING.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. TOM N AWN.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.15.
TOM IMAWN AND STAR CO.,
PAT AND THE GENII.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 18,
MISHAPS OF MR. DOOLEY,
a Roaring Three-Act Irish Farce.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sale at the White Rose.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Early Doors 6d. Extra.
NDEIi the Distinguished Pa' ronage and Presence of
His Excellency Vice-Admiral Sir Harry Rawson,
K.C.8., State Governor and Suite.
u
Direction of Mr. SPENCER JONES.
THE MUSICAL EVENT OF THE SEASON.
First Visit to Australia of England’s Most
Distinguished Basso,
MR. WATKIN MILLS,
Assisted by the Noted Polish Pianist,
MONS. EDUARD PARLOVITZ.
THREE SUPERB RECITAL PROGRAMMES,
T own. Hall, Sydney,
WEDNESDAY EVENING .. .. JUNE 22.
FRIDAY EVENING JUNE 24.
SATURDAY EVENING .. .. JUNE 25.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s. and Is. IsJi Box Plan at Paling’s,
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 15.
THROUGH AUSTRALIA.
THE
MUTOSCOPE
BIOTINT
TOUR
Commencing in NORTH
QUEENSLAND.
RUSSO-JAP WAR.
VERTO, the Lock-opener.
IRIS, the Beautiful.
MR. WILL HOLLINGWORTH, Gen. Manager.
Tivoli theatre, sydn £ /.
Sole Proprietor and Manager —Mr. Harry lUck viu>«.
4. Most Emphatic Success, THE U ESSE MS,
The Greatest Act Europe Ever Produced.
Re-appearance of J. WINTGN and McCiNTY, for Posi-
tively One Week Onlv.
Magnificent Success of MISS MAUD BEATTIE.
Magnificent Reception of the Very Latest, TURNER’S
PI£S., Consisting of Miss ETHEL WHITESIDES,
and the two American Picaninnies, WILLIE
BARNU.M and OLIVER FOX.
Brilliant Reception Accorded NAT CLIFFORD.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
JACK CARKEEK, World’s Most Scientific Wrestler.
JSANIi FLETCHER, Scottish Nightingale.
TOM DA SLN, Comedian, Grotesque Dancer.
LAST NIGHTS of BURKE, I.OLLER & TELLER.
FRANK HARWOOD, Actor Vocalist, ANCELOS, Comedy
Sketch Artists. NELLIE KIL iURN, Serio-Comic.
First Appearance of Miss NANCY SLAPOFFSKI,
Mezzo Soprano.
ERNEST SULLIVAN, MAGGIE FRASER, WILL
WHITBURN and ERNEST FITTS.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 18,
Re-appearance of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
SHERLOCK HOLMES,
for Six Nights Only.
CUYLER HASTINGS as SHERLOCK HOLMES.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Sub-Lessee .. .. .. William Anderson.
Business Manager .. Julius Grant.
For First Time in Melbourne,
MR. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO., in the
Enormously Successful London Adelphi Drama,
THE GREAT WORLD OF LONDON,
a play of London Life, by Walter Melville. Esq.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is fid and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s
p.iNCESS’S THEATRE, M ELB OURNE.
■ Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee Mr. J. C. Williamson.
SECOND WEEK, Continued Triumphant Success of
MR. CEO. EDWARD’S LONDON COMEDY CO. in
the World-Famous Musical P^ay,
THE GIRL FROM KAY’S,
which has just completed an Enormously Successful run
of Thirteen Months at the Apollo Theatre, London.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, Os ; Stalls, 4s ; Amphi-
theatre, 2s. Box Plan at Allan’s.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, fid.; Posted, Bd.


Auckland (M.L.), so lately raging with the
heat of Imperial fever, is now in the chilly stage.
A week or two back it listened with attention and
frequent; 4 plause to John Norton’s rambling de-
nunciation of Chamberlain and Chinamen; and
when John spurned its applause with alliterative
contumely, reminding it of its “base, brutal and
bloody howlings for the murder of Boer babies,”
it simply sat and grinned a shamefaced grin. At
a street meeting to protest against the
S’African Jew-Chow move, men of all sorts got
up and talked treason. A German factory-
worked got as good a hearing as anybody, and
when a belated Britisher shouted “ pro-Boer,” he
was silenced with looks of cold scorn. And, most
surprising development of all, Freddie Baume,
M.H.R., was received with a taunt; Freddie the
loyal was reminded that he is a Jew. One who
forgets might take these things as signs of return-
ing sanity, but he would err sadly. It is just the
same silly old crowd following its political guides
—the newspapers. The papers are anti-Chow, so
are the people; the papers are pro-Jap, so are the
people. Their’s not to reason why, their’s but to
do what the papers darn well please to direct them.
-J.F.I). : Those mournful-looking little
squads of saints who congregate at street corners
to spread the Word and also the stench from flaring
naphtha lamps, are interesting studies. Their great
joy is to enlist the sinner with a hymn book and a
wet handshake. I met a detachment in Woolloo-
mooloo a few nights back—four males, three
females and an organ. An 18st. drunk mistook the
meeting for a Deform gathering, and bore down
on the glare like a lumbering coal boat. The
spectacled lamp-bearers side-stepped skilfully, and
tne drunk ploughed through the circle and struck
a. wall at the other side. After steadying
himself for a few minutes, he swung round
and giving a whoop for O’Sullivan, he charged
again. Ihe torch-bearers dodged, but the drunk
crashed into the organ, and a tangled mass of
drunk, organ, and lady organist fell on the
macadamised road. The male saints handed the
stink lamps to the sisters, and started to dig out
their property, while the machine and its. mani-
pulator made shrill and violent protests against
the drunk s tonnage. At last they got the O’Sul-
livamte on his feet, and extracted the enraged
female. It took the combined efforts of the two
other females to hold her back, and she screeched
fouclly that one of her legs was broken and a nine-
inch hatpin was imbedded in her brain. She
wanted to slay the drunk. The drunk, still
thinking he had wrecked a Deform meeting
sparred with the male portion of the circle, and
cheered vigorously for the O’Sullivan between
hiccups, ihe injured female screamed loudly for
Justice, and finding it didn’t arrive, she escaped
from her guardians, grabbed a flare lamp, and
held it under the rear of the drunk’s greasy
panama. Two of the saints gave him a violent
push at the same moment, and he tacked down the
dark street like a fireship. The squad hurriedly
doused the torches, collected the battered organ,
and retreated, while the drunk, having wriggled
out of his blazing headgear, charged after them.
1 reckon that the lot of the street corner saint is a
hard: one.
(Rev.) J. N.WILLIAMS, Tarentum
00., Pa., writes :
“ Thirty years ago a physician told me I
die of consumption. I commenced to
Expectorant whenever troubled with colds o
and it has NEVER FAILED to bring relief.”*
, Allegheny
' would soon
use Jayne’s
r hoarseness,
WHIMI!
mm
mmm
IJ! ■ [ ! I i'll •*
imiillimiHil
fills
iiQiniMii
K '
Ik
I'.S ‘M.t Mill ll >ll li*/
[iDijiMii
MHMMH
SAVMIV
!
3'ftXX
.— " . -.‘2“"-\ .
,vgk'. . ’7.7‘-‘;"-.Q|‘ I:
1' _".‘..-‘C"~n '5 ‘ '. {a " .. _
(161“ " '1:‘~';"~'.’n2.‘ f§v1 &. '11,
..-' Hz. :37- 7', .A _. ‘,- x
A3137- .\'-’2" .‘ a, Jim 5,.» «5351743
‘0.“ '~ ’7'; 'i'mud-f"
":3. \w Hr“ ‘ "“T-p‘ ~r ")7?" "..'. ~\":9".1‘
\ljl‘ljdﬁlji)’ .4_ ’. . 77\r»v 'J{f‘"“ 4’ 2.‘ '1‘? -_‘ 7,
V.) I" Atxélvc‘n L7 ‘3 ."\“4‘.‘_ 7’ “If-7r. "' 5., «\‘ ’7‘.
“aux 7“ a 4": ‘f ’-"."0.“’.‘"\I-";'t -'1Q‘\“"- 1-;
. “5"} 7}. f1). _ .|. 3/1" ‘ «- [‘3‘]
WW? 3»; 4- ‘. ‘41,,7.) u‘o ~. :W
N75td7314. ..‘,gk‘i‘)‘ 37‘)? “l ' " 425:5?”
“4H), [Ewykﬁyﬂw‘ {m1 “ﬁJ 9/;
‘1‘ 3h} ..w...1!.4w11‘ 1‘ '1‘.“ ' u 7 ' ”n ‘r x
7”; mquiﬁ-vy‘, ”Vl-‘QF'HZ‘V lb .~ 7K6$321‘/' ,’
'\-. ,.‘7 My) J‘- AV.
N? J.‘ [r '13.} I
Concerning Elgin Watches^-
Largest Watchmaking industry in the world. Invested
capital, $10,000,000. Daily output, 6000. Handsemployed
4000. Every “ Elgin ”is so well made that it sells another.’
PRICES :
GENTS.>-408, Silver Case, 7 Jewels; 47s 6d, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 7 Jewels; 70s, Silver
Case, Gold Joints and 15 Jewels*
LADlES’—Silver, 60s.
Write for particulars to —
Queensland Agents :
SWIFT & GRICE
VALLEY
BRISBANE.
3‘—
lf/i!
" I‘m.“
HOTELKEEPERS! Make your own AERATED
WATERS and SAVE from £6 to £lO on every
100 dozen of Waters used in your hotel.
THE AUSTRAL
Aerated Water Machine
(Improved Patent)
Is now in use in many of the
Australia and New Zealand,
please write for prices.
leading hotels and clubs in
Prospective (N.Z.) buyers
4 Hunter-st., Wellington.
Sole Manufactukers :
ECKERSLEY & SONS, Melbourne.
HULLIWAY’SPELS
<y>
A
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recqpimeuds them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
it known as “run-down” cr “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy aud aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively tne
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
ai p . shoald be used in conjunction with the
fills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
rnatism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness 8
Holloway s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
❖
#
LﬂﬁpINTMEﬁ‘
Father Robinson’s
Record Bazaar
iriPORTANT NOTICE.
The DRAWING of the GRAND ART UNION in con-
nection with this BAZAAR will take place ABSOLUTELY
on 9th JULY. Father Robinson was reluctantly obliged
to POSTPONE the Drawing for a short time, in con-
sequence of the vast amount of clerical work involved in
the Registration of Tickets, and the fact that so many
Applications were received the last week. It is NOW
DEFINITELY DECIDED that the DRAWING will take
place on
9th JULY.
THE GREATEST PRIZES EVER OFFERED.
THE FIRST—
THE MAGNIFICENT MANSION,
“ATHOL PARK,”
Situated in the picturesque suburb of Coogee, Sydney. It
stands on a lofty peak, and commands views unequalled
in the world of ocean and coast line, and was purchased
some few months ago for £4OOO. Through the kindness
and generosity of a wealthy friend, it was placed at Father
Robinson’s disposal as an Art Uuion Prize, to enable him
to pay oS his large parochial debt, and to build a new
Church at Camberwell. This Superb Residence cost
originally over £BOOO. The winner of this prize will receive
the TITLE DEEDS FREE of all encumbrances, together
with a FIRST CLASS RETURN TICKET by any of the
ocean liners from Sydney to London
SECOND PRIZE—
-3 Acres of Valuable Land*
For Tickets and further particulars, apply to
FATHER ROBINSON, Camberwell, Victoria.
Iff* Tickets, 5/6 each.
To expedite clerical work, please send TWO FULLY
ADDRESSED ENVELOPES for receipt and result of
drawing.
P. MALONEY, Hon. Sec.
Brains - ,
rule the World
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER,
but the acquisition of knowledge is
Eible without a good memory. The memory
must be trained if the brain is to do good
work. The memory can be successfully
developed by proper training, just as an
athlete’s muscles are developed by proper
exercise,
PELMAN’S SYSTEM OF
MEMORY TRAINING
is a practical and successful system whioh j
benedts all brain workers. Ic will mike *
a poor memory good, and a good one
better. Simple and interesting exercises.
Taught in 6 Languages. Write for
Booklet and copies of Testimonials,
free on application to the
Secretary, PELMAN’S SCHOOL
Of MEMORY TRAINING
Box 402. (i.P.O.
MELBOURNE.
And 4 Bi-ooM-muRT Sr.,
LONDON, W.C.
IMPERIAL
„ EYE,
ointment
CURES
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now bemg used by hundreds among,rt them some of the largest squatters in AustX.
It will o+o 11 TVILL 1)0 EYERYIHING IHAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from It.
FECTOI
Manueactueees and Sole Agents
BLACK, It ED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases):—
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
HOBART (Wm Crosby & Co.)
4/-
4/-
4/-
4/-
por Gallon.
'The Xarjcei describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
Zfje British jtfedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own ”
COLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
I
£
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
AGED.
Benger s i ood is sc!d in Tins
by Chemists, &c. evuy ivitere.


„ A very remarkable slander case has just
interested Auckland (M.L.). The parties were a
parson and a lady of his acquaintance. She wrote
some letters to her friends stating that she was
about to become a patriot of the birthrate species,
and that the reverend was responsible. He
instituted a suit for slander. An alarming heap
of evidence was produced which went to show
that he had lodged in the same house as the lady,
and had sat up nights with her, and had had to
leave one lodging-house because the proprietor
objected to his staying in his study with the lady
till after everyone else had gone to sleep. The
two people drove and walked out “on church
work” together, and lingered over supper till the
landlady had suspicions, and so on. After two
days of evidence the jury found a verdict for
defendant, and ordered the parson to pay costs.
In his summing up, the Judge remarked that
“ the Suggestion that the night hours were spent
in the service of the Deity was untenable.” The
moral, as far as there appears to be a moral, is
that it is unwise for a parson to try and save a
woman’s soul after the landlady has gone to bed,
unless the work is so genuine and effective that a
visible halo grows on the woman, and is available
for exhibition in court. And in this case there
wasn’t any halo, but merely an infant.
The parson is a humorous cuss on occasion.
Witness this, gravely reported in the S.M. Herald
under the heading “ Answer to Prayer” :
A remarkable instance of direct answer to prayer was
cited by Dr. J. J. Kischen at the anniversary meeting of
the China Inland Mission to-night. Some time ago the
Australasian council of the mission wanted the sum of
£lOOO. In accordance with the principles of the mission
they -told no one of their need, but prayed fervently that
someone Plight be moved to give them the £lOOO. Some
days afterwards a communication was received from
Maoriland stating that £6OO had been given by a gentle-
man there. Six hundred pounds, however, was not
enough, but the council said nothing, trusting that the
remainder of the amount required would be provided.
The donor of the £6OO wrote sending a further sum of
£4OO, and saying he had felt something moving him to
give them the second amount. The secretary (Mr. C. P.
Whitridge) stated that such answers to prayer were not
regarded by the council as in the least remarkable, since
whenever they were in need of money they prayed for it,
and the exact amount was always forthcoming.
There is always something unsatisfactory about
the man who prophesies after the event; or the
man who says after the event that he prayed
before the event; or the man who says “I told
you So,” when no one can remember him telling
anything of the kind. What we do know is that
the Church prays for rain and it doesn’t come ;
that it prays for : the wholesale conversion of the
Chinaman, and his pigtail still streams in the
heathen atmosphere as of old ; that it prays for
the conversion of everybody and the congregation
grows thinner and thinner. And now and _ then,
after the money has come to hand—at least it says
the money came to hand—it says that it prayed
for the exact sum, and the ordinary scoffer does
not believe it. Even the professional swimmer
plays a fairer game than that. He doesn’t turn
up dry and with all his clothes on, and state that
he has just broken the record, and expect to be
believed. He does the thing publicly in the
presence of a time-keeper. -
It looked well to see in the same issue of
the Melbourne dailies an appeal from the Reform
League, signed by its president, W. H. Felstead,
to the electors to vote for honest, upright candi-
dates supporting the upright, straight Bent
Government, and a report of a prosecution of the
same W. H. Felstead, as managing director of
Beath, Schiess and Co., for sweating. Of course,
the appeal was on the “show page” while the
sweating prosecution report was hidden away in a
back column. An extract from a letter from
Beath, Schiess and Co., put in as a reason for an
adjournment of the case until after the elections,
makes very interesting reading. The letter was
addressed to Chief Secretary Gillott, and the ex-
tract reads —
In consequence of our Mr. Felstead being very much
enffa<?ed just now over election matters we shall feel very
much obliged if you can hold over the matter of the sum-
mons we have received concerning the Factories Act till
June 7 or some other day.
The “election matter” in which “our Mr. Fel-
stead” was so busily engaged was the work ot
sitting with other members of the Reform League
along with Bent, Gillott, Davies and Co. selecting
candidates to run in the interests of the rig id. y
upright Bent Government. It goes without say-
ing that the court granted the adjournment asked
for until June 7.
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
REYNOLDS’S
NEWSPAPER
FOR ARTICLES ON
Labor and Wages and Labor Disputes.
MOTTO : Government of the People, by
the People, for the Peop e.
PRICE- ONE PENNY WEEKLY.
JOHN DICKS, Effingham House, Arundel-street,
London, lCng.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR
1
(.1 ' 1‘ ,. ‘5‘
x 772;» fi‘k
/ . 2 A»
I " l~ ask
I , {.i ‘ - “an
"9/. j ‘ “ah
, Y‘ £7249;
2417-? .‘x MK: \
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
THE
BMItBAOIN
POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, hut about
which they feel a delicacy hi consulting their pnysician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting sunjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life m its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived ,
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXI ENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, 3s 6d posted.
Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring Tricks for
Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned Donelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Fop, Is 3d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. All Zola s,
including Nana, 2s each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little lolks
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Gd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ GuiDE(simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 2d.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy's Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is Gd posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-kitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,
6s 6d. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is, posted. Letter Writer
Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is 2d. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. U)sb J Established 30 I c&ts.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SMALL ID BA OF MV STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BV RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark dp, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. , pest, Is. 3d.
Saitiio, genuine, Is. Advice io Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford's Midwife’s Handbook, 1)2 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Cloo
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d & Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song P>ooks, 3d., 6d., and
Is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), is. 3d. posted. Chev.asse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 3(io latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, is. 6d. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. postpaid.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic. 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. Tiie
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, bv Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR R
ERT
Cheap Book Depot —
16 Park Street, Sydney
SPARAGUS
DISHES
Some very handsome
pieces in best Silver-plate.
These form uncommon
Wedding Gifts. A Heart-shaped Dish,
with Sauce-Boat and removable rack, for
84s. An oblong Frame, with heavy oast,
mount, pierced removable rack and pair
of Asparagus Servers, 80s. A neat, oval
design, with handsome,, large, wire re-
movable rack, 635.
STOCKS ARE NOW AT THEIR BEST.
All the New Easter Goods are on view—New Jewellery—New Silver Goods—
New Ptirses —New Plated Ware —New Clocks. Come and Inspect them, no
matter whether yon want to buy now or later. It costs only a little time to
become acquainted with the new styles from over the seas. This store is pre-
eminent for the Reliable Quality of the Merchandise it handles, and we always
quote lowest prices. Our Eight Australasian Stores with their big buying
powers compel bottom prices, combined with dependable qualities. Uur Cata-
logues are free, and all Goods are sent out post paid. Write us 11 you can t call.
Wﬂmmgf'
V 551“““ CORNER ~. GEDRG E ‘SV'SVDNWV: I!
ROOCHES
of Every Good Kind are
here—in all sold from 5s ;
in the popular New Zea-
land Greenstone and Gold
from 10s 6d to 25s ; Gem-
set Brooches ; Diamond Brooches that
blaze and dazzle, all are here in such a
breadth of variety that to be unsuited is
almost an impossibility. Our fine dis-
play of Knife-edge Bar Brooches, set
with precious stones, from £l5 10s to
£3O is worthy of close inspection.
REENSTONE
The real Stone from the
home of the Maoris, not
the common Chinese
Jade, which, though a fair
imitation, is but an imita-
tion. No doubt many jewellers sell the
Jade in the firm belief that they are sell-
ing Greenstone. If you want a piece of
the popular, real Greenstone Jewellery,
we can command our assortments to
your inspection.
INKS'
For your cuffs, with strong
connecting links, thus en-
suring long wear. Every
neat style made finds a
place among our unrivalled
display of these most necessary pieces of
men’s jewellery. We do not stock the
very light weights, as satisfaction cannot
be bought for next to nothing. But for
13s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s you can get a
pair of gold Cuff Links that will be a
pleasure to wear.
UEENSLAND
BEANS
Mounted up as Match-
boxes, are eminently
suited to give as Gifts,
especially for friends at home or going
home. Selected Beans beautifully
polished, and mounted with sterling
Silver, Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.
A Snuff-box might suit an occasional
Gift-buyer. Silver-mounted, 13s 6d.
ASES
Graceful Silver Vases, with
slender stems and wide
openings at top—Vases in
Glass with Silver Mounts
—in fine Silver Plate-
dozens of pretty ones to select from. A
few Buds in one or more of those dainty
ornaments will go a long way towards
making your dinner table good to look
upon. Prices from 2s 6d up to, say, 50s
for the large silver ones.
MAINS
in Silver and in Gold
Single styles or in the
fashionable pocket-to-
pocket form. All the
good designs, some plain,
others slightly fancy. Quality is standard
in all. No seven carat for nine and
twelve for fifteen ; but full quality
guaranteed. In Silver, single styles,
8s 6d ; double, 12s 6d. In Gold, single
and double, as low as £3.
AT PINS
Every woman can find use
for more, no matter how
lavishly she is supplied.
She can leave a supply in
each hat ready for instant
use. Silver Kangaroo, Emu, Jackass, or
Swan Hat Pins for Is, Any Initial nicely
cut out, Is 6d. Gold Emu or Kangaroo
Hat Pins, 4s 6d and 8s 6d. Lots of fancy
styles as well. Some Fine Gold & Tortoise-
shell Hair Ornaments, 22/6, 25/-, 27/6.
UFF CHAINS
Still a favorite with
the ladies, and no sign
of going out. They
lopk so graceful when
compared with old
style short chain or fob. The 9et. gold
Muff Chains run from 555, then 60s, 635,
70s, 955, £5 ; in 15ct. gold, £6, £6 15s,
£7 15s, £8 10s. Pearl ornamented ones
in a varietv of styles from £6 10s up-
wards. Silver Muff Chains from 8s 6d to
13s 6d.
INGS
This.is a favourite depart-
ment with us, probably
because we fit so many
dainty finders- -some with
Engagement Rings and
others with the Plain Gold Circlet, that
binds two lives together. If you want a
Ring, come here, where the best can be
seeiTlinked to lowest prices. 18ct. En-
gagement Rings, Gem Set, 32s 6d to £4.
Wedding Rings, 21s, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s.
ATCHES
Fool a man once and
that settles it. Cheap
watches never built up
a man’s business. We
have the kind of
watches that enable us to say we sell
more watches than any firm in Australia.
Come in and talk the watch question
over • or if you cannot, write us for a
copy of “Honest Watches.” Forty-eight
pages of watches fatly illustrated.
iamond Rings
For Engagements and
Birthdays. The daintiest
and most charming gilt
yon could send a woman
who loves pretty things.
Having our own house in Hatton Garden,
London (the home of the Diamond), we
are able to pick up parcels of pure White
Stones at favorable prices. Upon inspec-
tion of our lovely stock of Diamond
Rings, you will see at once the effect our
methods have upon the prices.
INKSTANDS
The Gift pre-eminent for a
S"I'] 1 '] Ktjj man. Probably the hand-
-3 somest and best lot in
--iJI Sydney, or, for that matter,
in Australia, to select from,
the rustic Silver-plated Single Bottle-
Stand, with pen-rack, at 9/6, up to the
elaborate Solid Silver Presentation pieces
at £6 10/-. Silver Topped Bottles, 7/6 up.
Silver-plated Inkstands, 16/6, 25/-, 35/-,
55/-. 70/-, £5 5/-.
ECKLETS
Everyone wants one of
these for hanging the popu-
lar photo pendant on. As
usual, we are fully equipped
with a splendid stock of good
and useful designs. In 9ct gold, 6s 6d,
12s 6d, 13s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s ;
In 15ct. gold, 32s 6d, 40s, 50s, 555. Then
we have the patent Pearl Necklets made
from mother-of-pearl and coated to imi-
tate the real, 63s to £5. Gem necklets
£6 10s to £385.
UGAR BASINS
SCUTTLES
A new shipment of Silver-
plated and Embossed
Sugars, just right for after-
noon tea, 12s 6d each. Then the favorite
Scuttle designs in the very best quality
silver plate for 20s, 22s 6d, 255. A Solid
Silver “King James” Sugar Basin,-635.
These are just a few picked from the
many we stock.
m
ceptional Value
Our stock of long-wear
purses is complete, and
when you see them you
will want to buy. With
_ the exception of a few high-
grade American purses, our stock is
entirely best English, each being care-
fully made and sewn, with' English
Hall-marked Silver or Gold mountings.
Prices from 8s 6d ta '2ss for silver-
mounted ones.
NTREE
DISHES
No woman can consider
her stock of table plate
complete without one or
more Entree Dishes. The cover has a
handle, and this, by half a turn, comes
off, and there you have a second dish,
which looks equally well as the other.
All good Plate, from 42s to 70s. Vegetable
Dishes, Steak Dishes, Soup Tureens, Pie
Dishes —in great variety.
AH DISHES
These are articles of daily
sale, and, in consequence,
our stock is constantly
changing. We add new
designs every fortnight—
all bought for cash by our Hatton
Garden (London) bu3’ers from the most
reputable Plate manufacturers in
England. You can pay as little as 6/6
for the simple styles, and then go up by
easy steps to 25/-.
PAL
BROOCHES
One of popular gems of
the dav is the Opal—that
lovely ‘Stone with sun-
shine in its depths—flashing forth every
color under the sun. A splendid selec-
tion of styles in Opal Brooches to pick
from, including some specially fine and
practically uninatchable pieces. Rings,
Bangles, Pins, Pendants—all are fully
represented.
EA POTS
Only reliable quality of
Silver plate is stocked, and
Tea Pot prices for Full
Sizes commence at 15s 6d,
then 18s 6d, 22s 6d, 255,
30s, 355, 425, 50s, 60s. The cheaper ones
being much plainer in treatment, the
higher-priced ones showing evidence of
superior skill in the decoration. We
have Tea Pots to suit every table, from
the cottage to the mansion.
work ever brought into Australia. The
Armada Jug, a solid silver piece at forty
guineas, is a gem fit for a collector. The
Union Uup, at the same price, is also very
handsome. Lots of appropriate Cups and
Bowls, in solid silver and fine plate.
ruit knives
and FORKS
Cased up handsomely—6
Knives and 6 Forks. Just
the quantity for a young
household. Smart looking in design—
no clumsy effects. Knives have nicely
engraved blades in a variety of designs.
Strongly Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
and made for use, not ornament only.
For £2 10s you can get a splendid set.
We have a big range.
ETTLES
Handsome pieces to have
on your table —effective as
wedding remembrances,
and nowhere else can you
see such good - looking
Kettles. We have—at least, we think we
have—some of the prettiest Kettles made,
and as for the prices- well, £2, £2 15s,
£3 15s, and £4 4s will buy something in
which you can have lasting pride and
satisfaction.
HOTO
PENDANTS
We could not describe
them in detail—the range
of styles is too wide. You
must come and feast your eyes on them
in the store. Prices were never so
reasonable for good Pendants. For 6/6,
7,6, 8,6, 10/6 to 15/6 you can get the Gold
ones ; then the Stone-set ones from 21s all
the way up to £6. A beauty, with star-set
Pearls in 15ct. Gold for t 2 12s 6d.
patterns, but the novel and effective
styles —Stars that have passed the
test of expert judgment, and priced as
low aB the fine quality will allow. PrT»es
for 15ct. Gold and real Pearl Stars 57s 6d,
60s, 70s, 955, 110 s, 130 s, and 140 s.
EALOUS
ATTENTION
That is what we promise
all who call or write. We
are ever ready to show you
and tell you all about the new things,
and, no matter whether you are a buyer
or not, that same zealous attention will
be given. It you write, we will supply
any information you may desire, together
with catalogues profusely illustrated.


Constable (at Sydney Water Police Court) :
“ The accused kicked me in the stomach, the
thiyhs. and n.isn William-street.”
A Kilmarnock (Scotland) bailie (of all
people !) lately committed a practical joke th: t
cost him £5O and his seat in the Town Council.
He was a higlily-respectable bailie until he took
to contributing flashes of Scotch humor to the
local press, and became known as a funny man.
This was the cause of his awfu’ downfall. In a
wildly imaginative moment he wrote a letter to
the Town Council giving his brither bailies to
understand that millionaire Carnegie had donated
£501,000 towards the erection of a Temple of Art
in Kilmarnock. The hoax was a brilliant success
for a day or two, and then the misguided bailie
had to “own up.” He tendered his resignation
and gave £5O to the local infirmary. The offence
lay in his frivolity. Kilmarnock’s ancient respect
for bailies has been shaken to its foundation.
When Macdougall and Macphairson meet at the
kirk door nowadays they shake their heads even
more solemnly than of old. The country is going
to the deevil. < ■ -
From Blackwood’s Magazine, February,
1904:
Karma had all the true Thibetan hatred for the priestly
caste, a hatred well merited, for—numbering about a
quarter of the total male adult population of Thibet,
rapacious, immoral, and utterly unproductive vampires
liv.ng by their exactions from the people—they have
fallen into contempt, a contempt mingled, however, with
superstition and justifiable fear. Still, the hatred they
have inspired is such os a foreign power, whether Great
Britain or Russia, could turn to enormous account were
that hatred worked upon by capable emissaries. If assured
of sufficient support, and the permanent suppression of
the tyrants and their Lamaseries, the people would not
move a hand to defend the Lama caste or the country.
There was an explosion in Ballarat the
other day, and when the smoke cleared away and
things were sorted out a drunken prospector
explained with a few hiccups that he had been
trying to blow his “old woman to Sheol.”
Fortunately no one was injured and not much
damage done. The idea of blowing up the
detached wife was introduced some years ago by
a Dunedin (Maoriland) man, but, owing to the
success he made of it, was not generally adopted.
This miscreant had been separated from his
spouse, who was young, pretty and much sought
after. He had sudden desires to resume domestic
bliss, but unfortunately they wore off about a
week after the re-union, and then came another
separation. Then the lady grew tired, and got a
judicial separation and an allowance. To increase
her income the wife went to business of some sort,
and the husband fell into arrears with his allow-
ance, and when pressed for a settlement made wild
threats. One afternoon as she toiled up the break-
neck street where she lived he appeared suddenly
and demanded the loan of ss. She handed him
half a crown and fled. Next evening he met her
higher up, and they were seen talking in an
apparently affable manner. He was observed to
walk up the road with her, and stop, apparently to
light his pipe. There was a sudden flash and a
loud report. People far and near sat down
suddenly and made remarks. Two hundred feet
below a man who had just bought some small
goods for tea was sent hysterical by a human head
falling at his feet. It was the husband’s. The
woman was blown to atoms, and bits of them both
were found scattered over houses and trees any-
where within a quarter of a mile. The Victorian
alleged imitator was a clumsy muddler compared
with the originator of the notion.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that .discharge or other'-' : se. perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swoll *hat when yon
press your finger on the inflamed part it. res the impres-
sion Vlt so, under tlie skin you have pc’s.-n that defies al.
the remedies you have tried,‘which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till deatli releasee
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may he wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the potvci to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and liven told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; Imt do not, for I ( AN
CURE YOU. I don't say perhaps ; but l WILL. Rccause
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of liad Legs
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores'
-„^ reat 1/lJd. per b x. Prepared by
A 1,8 EH 1, 73, larringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : iY1.1.101 1 BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for Unregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Kegd. copyright).
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK
k
DAY
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
CURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapcts.
4 Garments for the Price of
“ LONDON ”
TO
MEASURE.
/'
With EXTRA
TROUSERS
FREE.
s
Hmb
m .
HI
ms
r\>
S
n
n
u
55%
CVti
&m/A
Sfe
R
Which Pair to Wear? That is the Question.
_ “ It’ s a mighty good idea, that extra pair of Trousers Free.
Brightens up a fellow’s appearance wonderfully, and adds a pleasant
little puzzle to the. morning toilette.”
1000 PATTERNS* Samples and Self-Measurement Forms Free*
[ON DON
TAILORING OPP. G.P.O.
DEPOT > MELBOURNE
(ONLY ADDRESS IN THE STATES.)
NSTIPATION REMOVED.
A STARTLING FACT.
Nothing in organic derangement produces more sickness than
constipation, it is insidious in its development and progress.
It is the hot-bed of all infectious and contagious diseases.
Ihe bowels are the main-sewer for carrying off the waste
r matter and foetid products of the body.
The longer the residuum is allowed to remain, the more
immovable it becomes, with consequent risk to health.
The immediate results are indicated in sick-headache, bilious-
ness, coated tongue, foul breath, sour stomach, skin ei’up-
tions such as pimples, boils, eczema, etc.
The pimples, blotches, and disfigurements are but the outward
manifestations of the poisons within.
The gentlest natural corrective to constipation is a famous
preparation medically commended — Kutnow’s Powder.
Kutnow s Powder is a scientific production in which are
incorporated the health-giving virtues from the most
famous European medicinal springs.
Taken in the early morning before breakfast, Kutnow’s Pow-
der acts gently but efficiently, flushing out the alimentary
duct, and forming a delightfully refreshing and palatable
THE GREAT SACRIFICE.
Hundreds of people sacrifice their health on the altar of
procrastination.
Warnings innumerable occur, but a strange indifference holds
sway, with sooner or later terrible consequences.
The neglect of precautionary measures in correcting constipa-
tion involves the gravest risk to those with sedentary
occupations.
The use of drugs, pills, and drastic powerful purgatives is
most dangerous, and only accentuates the difficulty.
After the purgative, the constipation becomes more and more
pionounced, and weakens the natural peristalsis,
utnow s Powder, on the contrary, simply flushes the bowels,
disinfects the duct, and invigorates the natural action.
Ai e you a victim to this terrible scourge to health ?
o you find occasional difficulty in regulating the bowels ?
It so, take Kutnow’s Powder and difficulty will be
removed. J
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtained in capsuled
Bottles from all Chemists and Medicine Vendors.
IRRESISTIBLE TESTIMONY.
A TRAINED NURSE writes:
tt • • “ 59, West Derby-street, Edge Hill, Liverpool,
know t-ho li avi ug given your Kutnow’s Powder a fair trial, I feel it my duty to let you
tb-vt nno , • v s ’. have given it in two special cases of chronic constipation, with the result
seven! ls !l ow quite well ; tlie other only needs an occasional dose. Both ere cases of
y.,. ' i xrs s tanding. As a nurse of great experience, I think your Powder is excellent. —
xours truly, “NURSE E. PHILLIPS.”
SIGNOR FOLDESY writes :
nmi , “ 11, Bloomsbury Sq uare, London, W.C., 10th Dec., 1903.
with T t e , , hav ® derived from Kutnow’s Powder compels me to state that those afflicted
relief a nr! c" I/, ol ';-°nHtipation may rely absolutely on your preparation for permanent
system l <l It is a delightful remedy, and seems to impart new life into the
FS y ’ “ ARNOLD FOLDESY.”
A Note of Warning
of warning is therefore perhaps necessary when you wish to buy the genuine article and to
enve the same satisfaction as those.who have already used it. Kutnow’s Powder can be
and Co Ld >and7 tBand FT"?**** See that the facsimile signature, “S. Kutnow
and Co., Ld., and the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap ” are on the
outer carton or casern which the bottle is packed, and also on the label on the bottle Tb.
signature and trade mark will alone insure your obtaining the
GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
r Proprietors:
[3-9]
»■ KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN UVS.A.: KUTNOW BROS.,
853, BROADWAY, NEW YORK.


9
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every rive Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each SS.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW GPEN
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 2, 100,000 at 5/1 each.
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S.A., August 13, 100,00 J at 5/1 each,
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 12, 100,000 at 5/1 each.
DEMONSTRATION HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., October 3, 50,000 at 5/1 each.
Subscribers will please note tbat GEORGE ADAMS ("‘TATTERSALE ) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
THE
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA 06 mhos from Sydney). 1801, Limited.
. ■ / ~, „ i
■v 'J 1 'j. - ~ir — i —« 1 » 1 r .*v —v —v —y -»*"*»* —
iV ' ''s-' - 1 ■'' . j •
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For all information regarding Fates,
Apply to the Manager, Head Otftee, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
thee famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it etlects a Complete Cure It is most com-
fortina in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
,nd « Complete Cure is certain. BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
, CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first, the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without.benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until 1 used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
sniali bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid inedi-
cin for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
"Mr. Hearne. —
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ YOurs gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
Vatson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llemvellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows: —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“ WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.— Dear Sir,—Kindly send me ona
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethatiga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I w r as scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recover}'.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to tryHearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883 — 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot Qgjof» No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers,- 522 George street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.


Feathered Friends.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the little birds are calling from
the bush-land green and wide,
Why within the jumbled city ’mid its
rumble should I bide ?
Let me hear the bush birds singing as I heard
them long ago,
’Mong the mulga and the gidgees, and the wilgas
bending low;
Where I’ve heard the greenleeks chirrup,
Erom a-top the green belar,
To the clink of bit and stirrup,
Riding slowly, riding far,
Where the parrakeets and lorries and the brilliant
parrots are.
There the shrieking of corellas falls like music on
my ears,
And I see the wild mobs rushing, and I hear the
click of shears
Bringing half-forgotten mem’ries back o’er life’s
intricate bars;
Where the white corellas mingle like a herd of
flying stars.
You may praise the gay rosellas,
Or the western “twenty-eights,”
But the flight of white corellas,
And their crimson-plumaged mates,
Is the finest sight at sunset when you’ve crossed
the Border gates.
I have watched the Banksian cocky when the
rain winds ’gan to blow,
Crying shrilly through the forest, plucking leaves
and flying low;
Tho’ ’tis somewhat prone to mischief, it a kinder
spirit wooes
Than the raiding sulphur-crested and the gang-
gang cockatoos.
When the “snowies” flock and cackle
Visions rise of ripened corn,
Of unpleasant tasks to tackle
On a freezing winter morn,
Ere the eastern river flats are of their golden
dowry shorn.
In the deep, dark scrubs I’ve wandered, where the
turkey builds her mound,
Where the whip-bird, and the cat-bird, and the
lyre-bird all abound;
Where the whirring of the bronzewing and the
wonga’s note occurs
With the tintinnabulation of the bell-birds on the
spurs;
Where the rifle-birds are tapping
As up giant boles they pass.
And the bower-birds are snapping,
Playing antics quaint and crass,
While they decorate their playground with
assorted shells and glass.
I have sat and watched the brolgas promenading
on the plain,
Winning envy from the plover and the slowly-
plodding crane,
Seen them dancing on the greensward in the
waning afternoon,
To the scorn of stately emus marching ’long the
broad lagoon,
Where the shag, with spreading pinions
In the sunshine, looks askant
At its swift and keen-eyed minions,
Darter green and cormorant,
’Long the shore-line cracking mussels with their
beaks of adamant.
By those placid waters, merging into many a
spreading marsh,
Though a thousand throats may clamor never doth
a note sound harsh ;
In the stream the black swan’s mirrored, and the
great white pelican ;
Mid the reeds the coots cry loudly, and the land-
rail hides from man ;
Where the avocet would bribe us
Oft to wade the shallows through,
In the presence of the ibis
And the long-legged jabiru,
Ere the booming of the bittern called its night
mate out to woo.
Every dweller of the bushland loves the little
butcher bird,
Whose delicious song at morning many a bush-
man’s heart has stirr’d ;
And the warbling of the magpie from the apple
bough at dawn
Wakens homely recollections of sweet partings on
the lawn.
So the willy-wagtail fluttering
Over log and swamp and rill;
Welcome swallows ’neath the guttering,
And the little whip-po’-will,
And the gay old kookaburra in that home life
mingle still.
When the lone night shrouds the forest, from the
camp-hre burning by,
there are some who shrink and shudder at the
curlew’s ‘ ‘ lonely cry ” ;
ut I love it’s thrilling cadence as I’ve heard it
ring afar,
R ° U Yul^ibar lia,S ° nly CaStle ’ Wild and rocky
And the coo of squatter pigeons,
Or the little turtle dove,
And the crying of the widgeons,
m Homeless wanderers learn to love,
wnen there s virgin bush around them and a
speckless dome above.
Whe^ o m eSe i eathered friends are hailing from the
wu '“and green and wide,
abided 1 Wlthm the P rison °f the city walls
Le \hmton g w b “ Sh birdS 3blBing as 1 bel>rd
Wh csfn& 8 m U "if'^ 0 “ d ‘he
There is gladness in their chorus,
inspiration in their play ;
hey each do some duty for us
And in Un f tke h ? me and far away,
wW they’ve
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
The Cheese.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
dad bought 60 acres among the cheese-
|y | people down Bodalla way. Next bloke
to us had cows an’ cheeses. Yer got
cheese-talk in the pub. an’ after church.
Nobody talked about the weather; ef a bloke
mentioned the sun or the moon somebody would
chip in about the cheese what took the prize lars’
show.
Me dad went in fer pigs. Pigs keep a bloke
stiddy. “Stick to yer grunters an’ keep from
barmaids,” sez me dad, “an’ the world is your
friend.”
The bloke next to us wuz a German. He wuz
the oldest man you ever see. His barn wuz near
our fence. It was full of cheeses.
He arst me in one day to have a look at ’em.
There wuz cheeses the size of yer head, an’ some
as long as cartwheels. “Look ober dere,” he sez.
Be cripes I looked over an’ see a cheese as big as a
gasometer. “Do nod touch,” he sez to me. “It
vas old,” he sez, “ older dan me. I pray you nod
to touch.”
Yer couldn’t help lookin’ at it, an’ after a bit
yer could swear the sides of it wus movin’,
breathin’ like a man.
“Do nod touch,” sez the old German, “do nod
touch. If id lives till next year id vill be price-
less. De fat-man clubs in Sydney vill gif hondreds
of ponds for id —if id lives.”
Then he stuck his blind face against the cheese
an’ listened. “ I’d vas alride,” he sez; “ listen.”
I tell yer it wus breathin’ like a big man. I
touched the side of it with me foot—where it was
blue an’ mottled ; some crumbs fell off an’ a long,
white cheese-snake poked out its head an’ looked
at me. Tell yer what, I scooted into me dad’s
paddock. I wus too ashamed to say a word to me
dad. He’ll stand gohannas or bunyips, an’ he’ll
listen to a horse yarn, but I wusn’t game ter tell
him about the old-man cheese with the snakes
in it.
’Bout a month after we started losin’ our
chickens. Me dad j)ut it down to Casey. Then
we lost a couple of pigs. He said the Hogans by
the crik were welcome to ’em, but he sat up all
next night with the old shot gun between his
knees. ’Bout daybreak he comes runnin’ in to
the yard, his hair stickin’ through his hat. “ Joe,”
he sez to me, “how long ’ave I been off the
beer ? ”
“’Bout six months, dad,” I sez.
“ Joe,” he sez, wipin’ his hair an’ face. “ There’s
two big cheeses grazin’ in our paddick. They’re
rollin’ round an’ round the pigsty. It’s dam
queer, ain’t it, Joe?”
Me dad spoke to the old German, an’ said he’d
sue him for agistment if his cheeses started
roamin’ through our fences. Old Schneider never
said a word. He wuz too busy walkin’ round the
big, old-man cheese, sniffin’ at it here an’ there to
see if it wuz cornin’ on all right.
Next day we lost our dog. He wuz the best cattle
pup round Bega. It broke me dad up. He sent
a note to Schneider sayin’ that if he didn’t fence
in his cheeses he’d lay poison.
Next day was a scorcher ; it fried up everythin’.
The cows by the crik breathed quick an’ hard
because they could smell the big old-man cheese
up at the German’s; an’ old Schneider went pokin’
about the sheds rubbin’ his hands together. You
could ’ave posted a letter in the smell of that
cheese; it went north an’ south like an ixpress
train.
Me dad sez, “Joe, it’s no use gettin’ wild; we
can’t stop that effluviar with a gun.” We wuz
beginnin to understand that the old German was
trainin’ up his cheeses to suit the fat-man clubs in
Sydney. He had ter get ’em up to high-water
mark. You could hear what they wuz sayin’. A
cheese ain’t worth freight if it can’t answer a civil
question. Still me dad thought the German wuz
trainin’ em a bit too fine. A cheese has got ter
walk before you can ask it to run. Old Schneider
found that out.
. He got behind in his rent, and the landlord put
m a bailiff. We used ter see the bailiff sittin’ on
the fence smokin’ his pipe. Me dad told him
about the walkin’ habits of the cheeses. The
bailiff’s name was Jim Stammer, an’ he wore a
calf-skin vest with beer drops down the front.
“What?” he sez when me dad mentioned the
cheeses. “ D’ye mean ter say that them bladders
of nnlk ave the himpidence to gallivant about the
country ? ” He walked into the barn where the
cheeses lay in rows and he took a big blue paper
from his pocket. Then he drew a long breath and
read it out to the cheeses :
“Whereas you are requested by His Majesty
not to move off these premises for 14 clear days
from the day of notice.” He stopped readin’ and
looked over the blue paper. “I ’spose yer all
listemn ? he sez. The big cheese in the corner
breathed heavily an’ changed color. “I won’t
ave any gallivantin’,” sez the bailiff. “ A cheese
what can’t keep proper hours ought to be ashamed
of hisself.
Me dad asked Jim, the bailiff, why he had sich
bow legs. Jim said it wuz thro’ carryin’ heavy
loads up an’ down stairs. “Time payment fur-
niture waits for no man,” he sez. The same
thing applied to old cheeses. Next night we
heard cries in Schneider’s paddick. There wuz a
terrible scufflin’ near the barn, ’sif a couple of
camels wuz chasin’ a fire brigade. ‘ ‘ Help' help ' ”
shouts the bailiff. 1 '
“Don’t stir ’and or foot,” sez me dad, turnin’
white. There s a big fight goin’ on between the
old cheese an’ the bailiff. Don’t help either of the
scoundrels.
Then everythin’ went quiet. The moon came
up over the gum-trees, an’ we saw a thing like a
broken wheel floppiiT around outside the bam.
Me an me dad crept near, an’ we see that it wuz
the big old-man cheese settlin’ down on its back.
Ihe middle of it wuz broken, an’ the white cheese-
snakes wuz pourin’ out of it in thousands, like rats
leavin’ a sinkin’ ship.
“ Somethin’s gone wrong,” sez me dad, crawlin’
nearer. Then he pointed to a calfskin weskit
hangin out of the cheese’s face.
“ Got the bailiff all right,” whispered me dad
wipm his face. But the cheese-snakes kept pour-
in out an’ scootin’ back to the barn. The track
wuz alive with ’em.
• daybreak, the old cheese made a convul-
sive effort to git into the barn, but it wud have
had a better chance if it had swallered a grind-
stone instead of a bailiff. At sun-up, it gave a
round sort of shiver an’ expired. In the after-
noon, a post-mortem wuz held at the pub
Opinion wuz divided. One said that the cheese
had died while defendin’ its master’s home against
a ruffian wearin’ a calfskin weskit. The doctor
ff-vr v ® cheese had died from blood-poisonin’
Ao livin’ organism could exist,” he said, “after
swallerm a bailiff.”
Everybody spoke of Jim Stammer’s death in a
breezy an cheerful way. But when they buried
cheese, next day, there wasn’t a dry eye in
ALBERT DORGINGTON.
Piles cured
o
‘ TTN the interests of thousands of fellow creatures who
I may be suffering as I have, I desire to testify as to
the efficacy of your Bile Beans for my trouble,”
says Mr. Alfred Hopkins, of 45 Prince’s-street,
Church Hill, Sydney. “ I have been a terrible sufferer for
over two years from Piles, and although I have tried nearly
every so-called cure, and undergone the pangs of pain to an almost suicidal degree, I found
no relief until two weeks ago. My trouble seriously incapacitated me from my work
generally. I, however, obtained work at a prominent club as waiter, but again had to give
1 • p. c [ saw an advertisement in one of the papers, and determined to give your Pills a
trial. So I purchased a box from the Red Cross Chemist in Lower George-street. The
first night I took one ; the second night I took three, and for several nights I took three,
and then two and sometimes one on alternate nights, and by the time I had taken the con-
one of Bile Beans I was cured. I can solemnly swear that Bile Beans, and
ave me. The Piles have entirely disappeared, and I have recoin-
mended Bile Beans to another young man suffering from them (only in a more mild form),
and he can also testify to their great efficacy in cases of Piles. I shall feel gratified if any
other sufferer obtains a cure as I have by taking Bile
Beans, and request you to give this testimony the
fullest advertisement.”
♦
BILE BEANS are a SAFE and SPEEDY CURE
for BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE
WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD
BAD BREATH, ANAEMIA, DISTURBED SLEEP,
LOSS OF APPETITE, RHEUMATISM, and, by
giving tone to the system, will ward off COUGHS,
COLDS, and INFLUENZA. BILE BEANS are
obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers, price
Is. ljd., or 2s. 9d. FAMILY SIZE, containing three
times the quantity.
♦
ONE BEAN —ONE DOSE
BILE
BEANS
fOR HA
■BILIOUSNESS
Rhymes with
r /'
\ *
i<, <
\ &
m
*■
v «
‘IK
i
1
>
*
**v"*
'* (IN
' - <&—'"*
and so does
PEARS


The Land of Wait-a-Bit.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TASMANIA, like Westralia, is a country
of surprises. The slow bovine “Sand-
groper” of the Vasse is first cousin to
the dull, splay-minded settler of Ross;
the quick Easterner of Kalgoorlie is closely
related to the lion-hearts who struggled over
the reefs and quicksands of Remine and the
bare granite of Heemskirk, through the myrtle
forests to the quagmires of Zeehan; defying the
button grass—which is a vegetable spring-mattress
for walking on—and the everlasting rain ; putting
down deep shafts in a morass ; trying poor man’s
mining in a country where every hole has to pump
a small river. To Zeehan belong the men who
built the Owen Meredith tramway. The Owen
Meredith tramway is an epic. It belongs to
the list of great heroic deeds. The persist-
ence of the Greeks who came to Troy by trying,
the courage of Cortez and his men who gave to
Spain the treasures of the New World, are akin to
it. Yet the tram-builders were greater, for they
had continuous rain and scrub - darkness and
leeches to depress them, where Greek and Spaniard
had sunlight and women. A great deed is easy if
it is done suddenly or in the sunlight. For the
men of the Owen Meredith there was no sudden-
ness, and, happily for them, no limelight on their
stage—for their clothes were too ragged to be
decent except at midnight and in dark cellars.
And there were also the prospectors of these fields,
pegging and developing country where all the out-
crops are hidden by scrub and button grass.
Southerners and Westerners—they were a new
breed, culled from the adventurers of Australia,
new-begotten by Broken Hill, whose boom died
and gave them to Zeehan, and they made it; and
then went hot foot to Westralia and made that.
As a result, to-day you find the adventurous
Easterner quieting himself in due season with
the Gropers of Mandurah, slaying fish ; and you
find him on the Tasmanian West Coast —his strength
blown stronger by 7000 miles of a south-westerly
that sees no land after it leaves Cape Horn ; con-
nected with civilisation by a railway that begins
slowly in the haunts of fossilised Toryism, and
becomes almost progressive as it reaches within
coo-ee of the mine whistles of Zeehan.
This railway is interesting. The Emu Bay and
Mount Bischoff Railway Co., which was English
of course, bought, as the beginning of its system,
the old V.D.L. Co.’s railway from Burnie to
Waratah. This railway, without which payable
working of the Bischoff was not possible, was the
only thing approaching good work that the Very
Damned Lazy Co. ever did. Then the E.B. and
M.B. Railway Co. leased the line at a disastrous
rent to the local Emu Bay Railway Co., which has
never felt well since, and the old E.B. and M.B.
Co. now exists only to collect rent from its dilapi-
dated tenant, the E.B. Co. The E.B. Co. has
taken over the V.D.L. railway, but the V.D.L.
Co. still holds its enormous areas of land by right
of the infamous charter granted to it a century
ago by England ; which is continually telling Aus-
tralians of the gratitude the Australian should
feel. All we got from England were convicts,
chartered companies, good men who are now good
Australians, exceedingly dear puppet governors,
and many lessons in snobbery.
The V.D.L. was, at the beginning, of course,
over-boomed. One old-time manager had an
Englishly-laid-out park in the highlands, and a
Botanic Garden and Zoo therein. The company
evidently took more interest in its Zoo ■ than in
actual settlement. Its policy from the beginning
was a daring appropriation of unearned increment
—a bonding of the right of the unborn. It leased
the land in alternate blocks—never selling town-
ship corners—waiting for someone to discover and
to do. Truly English was this company, for the
English never discovered anything. They were
always the camp-followers, who got the spoil
while the real army went ahead; they are the
cuckoos of the world.
There is the luck of the drunkard, the baby, and
the poor. It was luck that left Ealgoorlie and the
Londonderry just outside the boundary of the
Hampton Blains Land Co. ; it was luck that made
the promoters of the Very Damned Lazy Co. fix
their hopes on the growing of maize and the kill-
ing of the fat pig, and the multiplication of the
cow. Had there been a big man among them he
would have taken the West Coast as a mineral
speculation—and then Bischoff would have been
undiscovered ; and Lyell would never have known
Cooney ( and Karlson ; and Frank Long would never
have seen Zeehan ; nor Con Lynch, Flannagan s
Flat.
No Mining Act applies to the V.D.L. charter ;
all the Co. will give the prospector on its property
is : nothing if unsuccessful, and £5OO if the find is
good enough to make the co. think it is; but with-
out anv interest in the find. Under the charter
the land is the company’s for ever without rents
or conditions, from the heavens above to the earth
beneath and the waters under the earth. It won’t
sell land—it will only lease it in alternate blocks ;
it won’t build —it will only breed a few cattle and
sit down violently and do nothing with great
enthusiasm. It refused even the necessary and
valueless sand strip to form an esplanade ; it owned,
or thought it owned, the foreshores down to low
water mark, and could refuse even landing rights,
but Government showed it the falsity of tnat.
Boldly grasped, this nettle can be destroyed. But
where is the man with the hard hand ?
The V.D.L. Co., from the point of view of its
charterers, may not be a big dividend-paying con-
cern but that’s its funeral. The present owners
paid even less for their shares than did the first
charterers—whose loss was caused by sending out
British dudes of the pre-Victorian and early Vic-
torian times, who threw away money with both
hands, making roads from nowhere to a fallen tree,
and building culverts on mountain tops. And that
was the loss of the grandfathers. The man who
wants to make money out of his grandfathers
losses out-Dogberries Dogberry.
The V.D.L. Co. has many farming tenants—
men who have leased bushland and hacked hearth
and home and cultivation from the scrub.
The late manager, a good bushman and a
good man, did his duty unswervingly to the com-
pany • but he knew the troubles of the tenants.
He was a marvellous hand among cattle; he
would see a mob to-day for 10 minutes, and next
week he would see the same mob and miss ‘ that
little roan bullock.” A wonderful memory for
anything on four legs, had that manager.
Some months ago, there came to Tasmania the
chairman of directors of the V.D.L. Co. But they
didn’t call him the “chairman. lhis V.D.E.
belongs to the time and the land of wide social
distinctions; where the clerk-slave m the office is
greater than the slave who drives the dray. In
Vanderdecken’s time the supercargo was greater
than the captain- and so the Chairman of Directors
is called the Governor. He landed at Wait-a-Bit
with his two secretaries, and lo ! none could speak
unto the Governor until the secretaries had asked
was a little pink old gentleman,
so soft in the skin that he seemed to be stuffed
with moss. He inspected the farms, and then he
came to the manager :
“That man at Surrey Hills—what does he pay
for his farm ?’•
“ A hundred a year.’-
“ It’s not enough—not at all enough. Why, he
has a nice house and horses and a carnage (he
meant a buggy). “He must pay £2OO.
“ But he took up that land as scrub; he s done
it all himself.” , , , ml _ , ,
‘«That’s no reason for the present rate. Ihe land
is more valuable now.” , ~
To summarise: the manager resented these
attempts to blackmail the tenants, and resigned,
The pink and mossy “Governor went by rail
to the West Coast with his secretaries, and had
something rude to say of the button-grass. He
did not like it; probably if he had tramped over
it day after day he might have remitted that
increase of rent, seeing the difficulties of the
country. But the lode underlies, the button grass
overlies, and the mining expert lies all ways ; and
the mossy “Governor,” if not a liar, was as bad,
for he was deceived by his old-world prejudice and
his. English habit of looking at foreign conditions
with English eyes. . , , ■
But there was one man m Wait-a-Bit to set mm
right—a most kindly, just, argumentative and
blastiferous person. The “ Governor and Ins
secretaries halted at a small public-house under
the lee of a big conglomerate mountain, being
driven thereto by a soaking rain.
The prospect was not pleasant—the myrtle
forest below them hidden by rain haze, the black
water running from the button-grass on to the
quartzite rubble of the track. ~. , ,
The Hard Case sat by the fire quietly, but
betraying a slight interest m the well-dressed,
soft-voiced Englishmen. At last he spoke to the
nearest secretary:
“ Who’s the old finger ?’
“My dear man,” said the shocked secretary,
“ that’s the Governor.” , _ . . T
“Is he? Well, he’s lost a lot o’ flesh since 1
seen him iast, puffin’ and blowin’ and sweatin at
My dear sir, he has not been in lasmania be-
fore-” „ ,
“ Why, you said he was Gormanston .
“ No, no, not Governor, of the Kawliny the
Governor of the Van Diemen’s Land Company.
“ 00-o-h !” said the Hard Case slowly ; is that
the Chairman o’ the Board ?”
“No, no, not Chairman —the Governor, my
g °“ d o“o n h” the Governor, eh ! Well, tell the old
finger I’d like to’ave a pitch with’lift—eh, you
know, talk ter him.”
“On company’s business, I presume .
“Yes, o’ course !” said Hard Case, grinning.
“ And, pardon me, your name ?”
“ Me name—Stanley Hicbens.
“Aw, sir, Mr. Stanley Hichens desires to inter-
view you on company business. ”
“ Let him come here, then.” . •
The Hard Case approached and was desired to
state his case, which he did immediately and with
more preamble than delicacy—his attempt at
politeness being abandoned as he proceeded.
“Mornin’—nice day—not too wet! What 1
was goin’ to say was this : you ain’t treatin’ them
farmers rigbt—watcher mean by raisin rents on
’em ?
The “Governor” blushed violently and said :
“ Business —business. Our charter is indefeasible.
“ Never mind yer charter —blank yer charter .
“ Sir, how dare you ? ” . , . ,
“’Ow dare I? Well, never mind-jus you
listen ter me. Here’s you and here’s me. You re
the Guver’ment, say: I buys a blanky farm from
you, an’ 1 clears scrub, an’ I climbs hills till 1 ve
got sinews in me thighs like a goat s, an 1 ploughs
an’ ’arrers, an’ I puts the blanky seed in with me
’and, and up comes the blanky seed
“You ruffian —I’ll have you arrested.
“Never mind me—never mind you. Jus you
attend ter the blanky point. Up comes the crim-
son seed and up comes blanky well you. You ve
a nice crop there ! ’ sez you. ‘ I want the blanky
lot,’ sez you, and you take it. What do I do, you
bein’ the Guver’mint? Why nex’ elecshun I votes
agin you, and out you goes on your blanky ear.
That’s all right, you bein’ the Guver ment. But
you ain’t—we can’t get at you. You sit down in
England and you’ll see us luridly well blanked
before you shift a peg.”
“ But, sir—the land is ours—the land is ours; we
have it—we are in possession.”
‘ 1 Never mind sanguinary possession. W hat I say
is—it isn’t fair ! Put yourself in my blanky place :
walk over blanky button-grass all the carmine
day • find yer scarlet boots full of crimson leeches
at'night, and yer bluey wet with flaming ram from
the outside and stiff with sweat from the blanky
inside, and then you go an’ steal all me crop fer
your purple rent.”
“ How dare you talk like that, you you
“Never mind that. But if I was one of yer
blanky tenants, an’ yer raised the rent on me, I d
come to yer fair an’ square like a gentleman and
I’d say : ‘ Put the rent to the old Agger or 111 beat
two cartloads o’ water out of yer.’ I would that;
and I’d lick these two blanky counter-jumpers
here (the secretaries) till I’d made ’em pretty.
The 4 4 Governor ” trembled with indignation,
and his secretaries claimed the protection of
another room, and the man who had voiced the
opinions of “the tenantry” to the “lord of the
manor” donned his bluey and went away over the
button grass into the mist.
The V.D.L. Co. can be brought into line with
Australian conditions by a good absentee-tax a ucj
a stiff graduated land-tax, but where is the hand
unafraid of the nettle ? How can decent new legis-
lation come from a Parliament that can t give itself
a respectable Mining Act. Evidently believing
the old Tory lie that the less men a mining lease-
holder is forced by law to employ the more he will
employ, as if mining development were a matter,
not of profit, but of pique, the Mining Law has been
altered and softened and razed until, m Tasmania,
there are practically no labor conditions to lease-
holds. The present Act is largely on the lines of
the Queensland Act, but worse. You may hold a
mine without working it for three years—at least,
you can only be fined. Even non-payment of rent
does not constitute cause for immediate forfeiture.
There are many mines on the West Coast,
mostly owned by Hobart, and, in a smaller degree,
by Launceston, that have been idle for four years
and over. It is useless to say that, if vacant, no-
body would take them up again. The terms tnbu-
tors have to pay to some of these loafing companies
—in many cases 20 per cent., the tnbutor domg all
the dead work at his own expense—is a sufficient
answer to that. .
There are many nettles in Wait-a Bit ; out
where is the hard hand ?
RAN[?] BEDFORD.
The S. Aus. Observatory is touchy, on
the question of the local climate. There .is a
general idea that Adelaide is a place of intense
summer heat; but, as it points out, the mean is
not two degrees higher than Sydney y J
is 697 ; Adelaide’s Tl\ Melbourne s (64) * the
lowest; Perth’s is just higher than Sydney s.
What is most the matter with .f del “ de . thoug
is that it hasn’t got a climate; it only h as shreds
of several. In the past summer it hao 26 days
over 90deg., while Sydney had only three. Ihe
largest point in its favor is that it rareiy stews its
people ; it hasn’t got .the moisture to spare. Its
average summer rainfall is under 3m.,
Sydney’s is over 19.
Half the churches in Melbourne suburbs
testify, by their unfinished condition, to the glory
that was Rome and the profit that was in all creeds
before the Boom burst. In Port Melbourne, f nn-
stance, there are many church structures, but
hardly a completed one amongst them. Most
have an imposing stone front and a little sawn-o
weatherboard continuation which seems tosym-
bolise the whole hollowness of the game. Rvery
one of those stone fronts dates from before .3,
and on present appearances not one of them will
ever be completed. Since the Boom collapsed
Melbourne people haven t troubled to cultivate the
sleek mien of a swindling Sabbatarianism; and the
churches have suffered accordingly.
LTitiiUiiuiiiuiiiiiiiii
©
1
m
r/
or
time to advantage
r turning Time to aavama
use SUNLIGHT SOAP
Bill 111 Mil i Mill 'IUII——
J
ONE HOUR
of a woman’s time
should be, and is,
worth more than the
value of a tablet of
soap. If a woman can
buy a tablet of soap
that will save her
ONE HOUR
of labour per day
she has the soap for
nothing. Sunlight
Soap used in the Sun-
light way, will save
much more than
ONE HOUR
s
in the day. Try one
tablet and note direc-
tions on the wrapper.
536
£1,000,000.
There is no doubt that if some beneficent being, with the power to gran t out 0 ut us
ask us to express our dearest wish'and promme that it shou tooj wou ld be sorely
would, without hesitation, elect to become mibionai ~ ft conflict, conclude that a
*- — 8 tenth “
realise their desire, the sufferings of most of them being caused by
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
a„d a radical cure in any of these cases can speedily be aspired. One and all of the disorders specified
are but the effect of the failure of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
to efficiently perform their functions. These important organs, when acting healthily, deal with,
and remove^from the system, the poisons which inflict the; pam bl*nesss. In this
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three> pints of ur f J uric acid)
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, te | ounce to nearly an ounce,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from atl invisible Directly the
& kidneys are i„ health, all this solid matter .s.mi »M,o„ ™ 5 “"X a of
n „ A i n{’?s l s g rS 6 . a J.v^ I s e g s»d
e»t^
particles float about m it, or it is of an unnatural color, th y serious but more
be lost in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less
painful illness will result. . oM-nnHv made from the blood. Two or three
The Liver. —In the liver various substances are actuany macle trom blood,
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day it to the blood,
■“SSa that it is almost impossible for
the Kidneys to be affected and the liver to remain healthy or vice versa Kidneys and
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to di peases or cne isaan y
Liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
r=H!35SS^a
are permanent cures.


Melbourne Argus and Age made themselves conspicu-
ously foolish (to the initiated) in their notices of the new
‘‘Gaiety” Co. The trouble began with the publication
of a Herald “ spoof” concerning Maurice Farkoa. The
Herald interviewer, finding that Farkoa had not much to
say, padded the yarn with a fictitious account of how the
Anglo-French comedian had sung before Abdul the
Damned and been decorated with the order of the
“ Medgiedie.” The absurdity of this item in the inter-
view was made evident enough by the inventor, but it
imposed upon an Age man, who repeated it in a pre-
liminary puff paragraph next morning. The “ fake ”
story of Farkoa and Abdul the Smileless is now travelling
around Australia. Then there were the criticisms in the
Monday issues. The Argus quoted, among other things,
a verse from a song called “ The Beautiful Game of
Love,” and babbled ecstatically of the artistic manner
in which Farkoa sang the quoted lines. Unfor-
tunately this particular song was omitted and
another ditty took its place. The Age correctly contra-
dicted the Argus man on this particular point, but
made a verdant reference to some business which Farkoa
and Miss Ryan introduce into their kissing duet. “ The
lady appeared to think he might have been a little less
ardent and realistic in his advances,” wrote the guileless
critic. Miss Ryan affected to blush and hang her head,
and laugh spontaneously, and interpose a fan between
their faces what time the actor was inviting public
attention to his “ ardent advances”—and the Age man
accepted these old stage tricks as new and unrehearsed
effects.
“ Melb.” : The Board of Health is making a dead set at
Melbourne Theatre Royal. What a wild-beast den the
gallery is, in point of accommodation, as compared with
the luxury and perfect view from the amphitheatres of
the Princess, Her Maj.’s and the Opera House. The
Board will doubtless abolish the vestibule bars.
Jimmy M‘Mahon, when last heard of, had, with George
Leitch, opened the Wellington (M.L.) Opera House with
‘ The Silver King.’ Nat Douglas took the chief part.
“ Melb.”: Jack Bryan is again the cabman in the
“Silver King.” It can no longer be said of him that,
like Falstaff, he lards the lean earth. Long memorists
say he was as thin as a lath once. He came to Australia
with the Lancashire Bellringers in 1863. Posterity can
only take account of him in about three stage characters,
the cabman in “ Silver King,” the beadle in “Jo,” and
Hercules, the strong man in “ The Grasshopper.” Then
he was a medicine man, with Bryan’s Styptic, which
appears to have co-operated with Frank Weston’s Wizard
Oil in curing all the ills of humanity.
Hal. Mac. writes from Manila :—Poor Johnny Coleman,
who came to this warm city under engagement to play at
the Orpheum Theatre, has broken down. He was ’ un-
doubtedly the best artist we have had from the land of
the wallaby, his grotesque dancing and descriptive songs
always winning encores. But the local drinks got him
down and worried him, for no man can drink in this
climate with impunity. His active legs gave way, he
went to bed at the Civil Hospital, and then insanity
showed itself in an unmistakable manner. Fearing that
the poor fellow might do himself some injury he was iso-
lated in a tent in the grounds, with two tall Sikhs on
guard over him. The Manila public has shown its sym-
pathy for Johnny by giving him a big benefit. This will
enable him to take a voyage to Australia, which should
repair his shattered nerves. All the other Australian
“ vaudevillers ” are well. Daisy Harcourt has married a
“ Yank," and leaves for the States this week.
“Adelaide”: C. J. Stine, of the “ Brown’s in Town ”
co., before leaving S.A. gave some amusing talk to a
Register interviewer as to the hard work involved in
putting together plays of this class. “It took a lot of
time and work to fit the specialties in. . . . You must
introduce the musical numbers in order to bring the
characters on in a natural way ... a lot of things which
it took no end of time to work up.” As to which, take
two ordinary examples from “ Brown ” : (I) Enter hero,
alone (N.B. —That hero has been lying consistently all
through the piece). “ I don’t know what to do. I
suppose I shall have to lie, as they’re all doing the same.”
[Song : “ All doing the same.”] (2) Guests at a country-
house amusing themselves with a chorus ; the gardener
standing by, in shirt and trousers and one brace. Lead-
ing guest turns to gardener : “Now, old man, it’s your
turn.” Gardener advances to footlights and obliges with
two ballads. Finally, take a particularly shameless in-
stance. 9.50 p.m. and time for second act to close. Hero
and his father quarrelling. Enter everybody : “ What’s
the matter?” Heroine: “Oh, nothing. We were only
rehearsing ‘Lindoo, my Hindoo Queen.’” [Song and
chorus : “Lindoo, my Hindoo Queen,” in which the two
men who were quarrelling take no part!] And this is the
kind of thing which keeps its compiler awake at nights
with the mental strain !
“ F.” : A recent Bulletin par. seemed to suggest that
Susie Vaughan showed a thrifty regard for her plump
salary whilst she was in Australia. Well, the eldest of the
Sisters Vaughan (she was earning about £2 a week as a
high-kicker in a dancing quartette when I first saw her)
ought to be blessed with saving grace. She has had a
family lesson in the foolishness of letting the money fly.
Her sister, lovely Kate, rose from the can-can quartette
to be a diamonded “ star ”of Gaiety burlesque. Anon she
glittered as the manageress of a tony comedy co. Finally
she died, a broken idol, in S’Africa, and a few of her old
admirers shared the cost of poor Kate’s funeral. Susie,
presumably, hopes to die in the odor of solvency.
The social dissipations of the Melbourne Methodist Con-
ference remind one of a gentle little joke in “Three
Little Maids.” It was solemnly reported that “In the
evening the members of the Conference paid a visit to the
power-house of the Tramway Company, and afterwards
visited the Fire Brigade station, where there was a dis-
play by the firemen.” When the amorous bachelors of
‘ Three Little Maids ” are being cold-shouldered by their
society girls, and don’t know how to make things pleasant,
the apologetic Lord Cheyne stammers : “ Ladies, will you
be disengaged to-morrow afternoon if I get a permit to
go over the gasworks?”
Mark Hambourg is beginning to “ knock them ” in Lon-
don. He took part in a Kruse concert at the Queen’s
Hall latety, and a trustworthy notice states that when the
little Russian artist had finished his concerto he “ prac-
tised sentry-go on and off the platform for some 10 minutes
amidst enthusiastic applause.” Another pianist who has
appeared in Australia under Lemmone’s management
seems to be making steady headway. This is Adela Verna.
The cheerful girl with the sturdy pair of arms gave a
series of “ historical ” recitals at the Salle Erard (London)
in March and April. “ Historical ”is a fine, weighty word
for programme purposes.
W. B. Yeats to an American interviewer:—“Whom do
I judge the greatest English actor of to-day ? Irving, of
course, and Irving, that greatest genius of the present
stage, has done more than anybody else to kill poetical
drama. His influence has been felt throughout the world.
Before he came there was poetical drama. He abolished
it. He utterly ignored the poetry of every line he spoke,
thrusting aside every trace of metrical speaking. To
speak blank verse as prose is like singing out of tune, and
Irving is too old to be converted. It is useless to discuss
philosophy with a man more than twenty-seven. But
while wrong in principle, Irving is always in good taste.
Even his most absurdly elaborate scene is not hopelessly
vulgar, like Tree’s staging of ‘ Ulysses.’ ”
For Old
Public School Teacher 39 Years. Overworked.
f rated. How to Get Strong and Well.
Pros
a-'.
m
Mr. H. C. Bret-
tell, Rozelle-Bal-
main, N. S. W.,
sends the photo-
graph of himself
and gr and ch il-
dren, and says:
“As a result of
overwork I be-
came completely
prostrated.
Friends advised
me to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I did
so, and before the
first bottle was
used I was able
to get up and
dress myself. Be-
fore I had used
three bottles my
appetite had re-
turned, and I was able to walk freely. Whenever I feel poorly I take a few
doses of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and lam all right again. I have been a public
school teacher for more than thirty years, and I can truthfully say that I
believe Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is as good for the young as for the aged.”
This testimonial tells two remarkable things about Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
First, that it will cure people when they are very ill indeed, “completely
prostrated,” as Mr. Brettell says. It also tells how valuable a medicine it is
when one is not very ill, simply “feeling poorly.” The reason for this is
because Ayer’s Sarsaparilla goes right to the foundation of things; In every
case it first removes all impurities from the blood, and then renews and
builds it up. This brings good appetite, sound digestion, strong nerves, and
robust health.
It is “Ayer’s ” Sarsaparilla you want, not some new, untried kind. Get
the old, genuine, original Sarsaparilla, “Ayer’s.”
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYES CO., Lowell, Mass., tr. S. A.
MARCUS CLARK & CO., Ltd.
Combination Cotich and Bed.
A Marvellous Invention.
This is a COMBINATION COUCH AND BED—a long
looked-for want—which can now be supplied at our
Newtown Emporium and Branches. '
ITS SPECIAL MERITS.
Simplicity and Usefulness.
The Most Comfortable of Couches.
Convertible by a wave of the hand into a Luxuriant
and Substantial Bed.
A piece of Furniture of Highly Artistic Finish and
Design.
An ornament to any room, in addition to the above
useful advantages.
At prices within the reach of all.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
.. . . . / Patent IVo. 1227 h.
Upholstered i n Cretonne, from
in Tape*# and Plush, from
Upholstered jn Cretonne, with box, from
In Tapestr) antJ p| USh , „ „ ,
Can be upholstered m any material: Leather, Cretonne
J.apestry, et W., and invaluable to Hotel and Boardine
House-keepers An times of extra influx of visitors.
As it is convertible into a double bed at a moment’
ny ro ? ni Y an be turned into a Bedroom when
one of these admirtVble Combinations is placed.
hit ®° LE R,CHT h\» ,d b y and obtainable only at
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd. Uni NEWTowN. tor:
The -Voice of the People
whenever Raised and for whatever purpose must always command
the fullest attention and respect. Whether the subject is imperial,
national, industrial, or domestic “the Voice of the People”
holds the sway. This voice it is that for nearly sixty years has
consistently sounded the praise of
Beechah’s
Pills
—a medicine of which the people have long known the remedial
value in
Bilious and Liver Disorders,
Sick-Headache,
Failing Appetite,
Languor, and Want of Tone,
caused by depressed conditions of the Nervous System. In all
such cases it is not too much to say that the benefits to be
derived from a judicious use of
BEECHAM’S PILLS
are practically known all over the world.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price Is. Ifd. (56 Pills),
and 2s. 9d. (163) Pills.
m
AMMUNITION
Can always be depended upon for being sure fire,
regular, and clean. It is sold by the principal
ironmongers throughout Australasia.
m' s
SPECIFY U.M.C. AMMUNITION and ACCEPT NO OTHER.
*
V
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
<
DRMARHN,
M.D., M. 8., 0.M., L.R.C.P.,E., L.R.C.5..E.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great Britain,
New South Wales, Victoria, etc.
"ELMLEY HOUSE,”
151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY,
Nine Doors from Market-street.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases ot Men and Women.
The only Legally Qualified Medioal Practitioner advertising in Australia holding all the above
Qualifications, Specialist in all Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases. May be consulted personally
or by Letter, in all Diseases of the Nervous System, Blood and Skin Diseases, Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Vari-
cocele, Diseases of the Prostate, all Private Diseases, from whatever cause arising:, and all those Contagious
Blood and Skin Diseases so common throughout Australia, and in all chronic Diseases of Men and Women,
such as Asthma, Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
and Kidney Complaints, etc., etc. DR*MARTIN has Accommodation for a Limited Number of RESIDENT
Patients at “ Elmley House,” suffering from above complaints. Terms Moderate.
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Dr. MARTIN has recently published his Latest Medical Work on the KNOX-MERCER treatment in Disease.
Price, by post, cloth 5/6 (cheap paper cover edition, 1/6). Send for “ Press Extracts,” posted Free throughout
the Commonwealth, giving the Opinions of the Press of Australasia.
ADVICE by Letter, ONE POUND (including medicine). REMEDIES forwarded Free from Observation to
all parts of Australia. DIAGNOSIS CHART Posted Free to all Patients residing in the States.
Dr. MARTIN nas with him all the Latest European Treatments, including the Browne-SequardA Krafft-
Ebling, and Knox-Mercer Methods, for all Nervous, Skin, Lung, Heart, Liver, Kidney, Bladder/ and all
Private Diseases, in the Treatment of which he has been so successful during-his 24 years’ practice in Australia
(over 20,000 cases). By consulting Dr. MARTIN, you receive the advice of a thorough, competent and
trustworthy physician. You are assured of proper and reliable treatment, of moderate charges, and rapid and
complete cures, if within the reach of medical skill. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth St.
• ALL COMMUNICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL. (Please mention this paper when writing


THE BEST
HOT WATER BAGS'
Money cannot buy better.
A Hot water bag is always
useful in the home—es-
pecially in cold weather.
Send for one te-day. "<P(jS
LOWEST PRICES I
PRICE
Without Covers.
Size.
lOin. x 6in.
lOin. x 7in.
lOin. x Bin.
12in. x Bin.
12in. x lOin.
POST FREE
6s. 6d. each
7 s. „
7s. 6d. „
Bs. „
Bs. 6d.
Complete
with Covers.
7s. 6d.
Bs.
Bs. Cd.
9s.
10s.
CASIP WITH ORDER.
Perdriau Rubber Co.
(Late Perdriau & Co.)
RUBBER MERCHANTS,
270 George St., Sydney.
Ltd.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
33‘
m¢
«2‘5 . 1
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions aiid produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My fnammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
Prof*. R.H. BARRADEN. 89' Pitt St./ Sydney-
M
Is, Id.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTH INGTOH.
TRADE MARK.
Compound Jet Condensing Pumping Engine.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Co., Ltd. London.
Warren Webster & Co. Newjereey.
ENQUIRIES INVITED FOR
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heatersw Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
u :
MAMMATT’S
Spoons, ■ , w'B
Pocket-Knives,
1 , Celebrated
\ PLATE and
/CUTLERY
;'*v;
MARK-
<bH£
WOLF
J*
or
AAPj
J. ft J. MAXFIELD Proprs., SHEFFIELD,
At the Showroom*-
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Alee at-
THK BXj O CK,’
Coilins-St., MELBOURNE
:‘x;»,-. 5‘: .‘
‘--_.-3 33.1“ F453;, 9) ‘2 >1 - . :E‘ﬁéﬁ‘. 1“":
V ‘ (375m 5?:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence St., Sydney.
Woodworking Machinery, All Steel Pulleys, Shafting, Plummer Blocks,
Steam Engines, Boilers, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Laundry Machinery,
Fan Blowers and Exhausters, Sturtevant Ore Rolls and Crushers.
A ‘u‘ ,' " > , I 1‘ . u u ,_ ' .
,a “ “““ran’vr _- .
- . . . , — m '
3‘3“". w W? , . ‘ ,
‘71: 7’ i Plum v ' ‘
"' ‘ ‘ ‘ . .
«KEY; 7-37 . " ‘ " " ,
'«i«-|'~‘.J"" ' ‘ - y. W»
J _...h .~ ._. .ﬂz.:=-- W m
1 .s-t..;:-;s.._.,~ ‘ ..-. .
..- _ 5w ’LJV:(.'.;=1-_ 14.. _-" ‘
- {5:413 '7 V.
, Wifi:
as wen as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
ygéééf/é'?” p 711’¥?:§\>\§ ‘1 3‘: ~ ,
15:23"? 'f':r-:_.‘ ;\«' ‘5 _.- f,
457%” %~ . ~ #1 ga-ﬁ-{xx . x
7723/ ”'1 ‘ 2., ' ' %\\\\’a"v-L,\g.. ‘1.
M ' “90*
N ,‘ ' -. 9:3va ‘\‘\\ A: a *
‘i’i‘c‘ ‘ :‘37' . "'5 "31$ 7‘5, “3‘ \~. ‘\
f7" 0,- 1“ mm“ .\\. ‘ ‘ ‘ - H
”(7W9 I ,/§" 45,?“ J» . \§§\\\<\'\V\n| ‘3
"1 ".Jy'ﬁ ‘ 3-15.; -;*;c'_'.',.._~. . ' ‘. ' “ 1
29 " 4:». ' "‘cvnw-NL ’1 ‘ “ 1 m
/ ‘ {t}. :’~ ,- 61% 33:3 g‘ n“ v
" r ‘5': Wyn" on ,.‘ ""‘ ‘a . ,. ‘ J.
7 ‘ ,l 1' 1“ €5.51»; ‘1 . ‘» . m\\\,}‘.“p\i‘> H \J . ‘
‘ A 1,11,;‘11igi-33 3‘3: V . 7'... '33:“ wk. . W “H ‘3 f I.” ‘
1 +2»"'»;-,z::fv-ﬁ~'¢zi«‘ -‘ “3““ "‘ A 2’811156'12‘1w11‘.
. A V i . 17%}: V”; ‘ . 2‘“! .J“ A V", , , ’ H L ‘1“"11 1‘: ‘. I ‘.
1 \ "i 5 {afiiﬂif-ukéu h ‘ {VF-3*! '-
7 \n ~ ‘ .' ~ JI“$“*W~.~
.m\‘~‘~,..a,1‘ . V‘ ’1 . ‘ ,
\=)§"\1“\3-‘ii\ \< if? ‘ /V “ ‘/h’i.".,"‘
\‘§)"'\“é;w «1:125; ,. 7 4" /‘, ‘
\“3 “1, , 1,7:771«:«:«::;;;§ “‘ / 1 ‘;'.‘ ,
\V '11. " 1 /) ',
‘Wv ‘ < > 7:4::'::': ,ﬂl 1?,-4’,:€{/‘,'V,'.‘11 "‘
“31:9 . "131 6., a? ,// fa," . .
\K 3;“ "-. «1 . ,’ ﬂy /1
\\ 4 . "x / :1' —' ;;//_,4U:.-t
k§§q¥£§¢ « - '
Kai—.4?” ’ ‘
lixr
stock:
3E3CA.^7-3ES
Pyfileys
afilng
angers
11l
*\ .
Couplings
Drills
Reamers
Wrencl 1
Valves
Valves
Valves
Valves
Oste r Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
■ ' ■ ■ . ■
write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
L": 4
. 1‘74"" 3.).“ 47%;».
Aaﬁd» ‘
ﬁna”$§ﬁi’-v'>‘*‘%ﬁ‘
an a: 4%; ‘
' mum»? 7" “y" '
T. M. GOODALL & CO., 129 hay st., sydney
have IN stock A N p to arrive- portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
(I ; .
in“?! an»
‘4‘ -- >.=g =gmjgg
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Socially. New and Second-Hand Maohinery always available.
w
Size, 51" x x 5".
We are Direct Importers
and have
for Sale—
NOW DUPLEX
Call sizes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
BUTTON & CO., Ltd
97 ClLiA.Et£:srC£i STREET, STOKTHY.
71 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY;
I
U ■ - — , . v ,™ wj
•' ■' i -J '' - .• • i*.
. *> . '/V.;;- * ‘
:
MELBOURNE
Send for Catalogue and Quotations
Have pleasure in announcing that they have obtained the Sole Agency for
The CARD Concentrator
This Machine has broken Records in the United States, and will do likewise in Australia.
The Mining Investor, Colorado Springs, U.S.A., Nov., 1903, says : “It now becomes the duty of any
mine management to thoroughly inspect, and have it demonstrated to them, the merits of this New Con-
centrator before accepting as a fact that other machines are as good or better, simply because in the years
that are past one or other of these machines have ranked as the best.” v
