

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. BEAVER STOUT.
WHOLESALE AGENTS : ORME KEIGWIN & CO., LID., 269 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
107
Mining and
Kent Street,
—FOR—
Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW add SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Sydney,
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
' H*cl-AREN’S Compound
Traction steam ‘Engine.
3K3COBt_A.jFI.TC"
w»
PIONEER
LEATHER
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON. BATTLE & C°
85 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Agents for J. & H. MCLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Steam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Stoek and have to arrive MoLaren’e Compound Traction Engines; RUBTON’B Portable Horizontal and Vertioal Steam Englneej
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Maohinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.
BOTTLED IN
SCOTLAND
1
WHISKY
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
THE ROYAL
EDISWAN LAMP.
SWi
Economy in Current.
Equality op Light.
THE
EDISON Si SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch :
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dep6t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
CUtt ifr tColMvvi ‘sed
H
CONTINENTAL MOTOR TYRES
Wallace Continental Motor Cycle Tyres.
*—
ARE YOU A TRADER?
ţ
%
A MO > T
it t » K lOU S'
■ S v, A ’
*
THE AUSTRALIAN TEA TRADING COMPANY’S Celebrated Teas Numbers / <£ 2 are warranted FREE from Common, Coarse or Inferior Low Priced
Teas of any description whatever. These DELICIOUS Teas will be found the BEST VALUE on the Australian Market and are recommended lor
their Strength, Purity and DELIGHTFUL Flavor.
Traders will find it ADVANTAGEOUS to place their Orders permanently with the AUSTRALIAN TEA TRADING CO. who are the Largest
DIRECT Wholesale Tea Distributors in the Commonwealth. Principles of Business:—We supply the Purest and Finest Teas. We trade
equitably and honorably with ALL. We reciprocate mutually with our patrons by a WIDE and generous publicity throughout Australasia.
We guarantee by Scientific and Expert knowledge the Absolute Purity of every Tea supplied under our Registered Name and Trade MarK._
ARE A TRADER!
Then we say most emphatically that it will be to your ADVANTAGE to
become A PERMANENT CUSTOMER OF OURS. Faithfully yours,
jo aciTfiMud jiog
:
M'lNTYRE BROS.
105 Elizabeth St..
MELBOURNE.
BANKERS- The Bank of Australasia, Melbourne.
Every Package bears our REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
A.T.T. CO.’S CELEBRATED TEAS.
These TEAS are
Worth
1/3 and 1/6 per lb.
Respectively.
A.T.T. CO.
— r. —
A.T.T. CO.
1001 b. CHEW*
901 b.
801 b.
601 b.
501 b
ALSO AS UNDER:—
80113. CASE containing 4—20 lb. BOXES
80 „ „ „ 8~10 ..
so;; lii packets
lo;; ” " u o-:o;; boxes
eo;; ;; " co-i ” packets
co;; :: :: 120—1 „
J 0 „ „ „ so—l ~ ~
so” „ 100-i
A PRO FORMA INVOICE, with lull Barfioul*
will be seat to any bona-fida trader on appuoatidn.
§
BREWERS, WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
and CORDIALS.
'
ť
No Other
the Word
ENGINES
EQUALS
i
SIMPLEX
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
No Worry or Trouhln
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St*
MELBOURNE.
Top Quality
Bottom Prices
In Every Line.
PRICE LIST PER BOTTLE :
WHISKIES.
Highland Park .. .. 4/-
Usher * Special ••. • • 4/2
Buchanan’s Special .. 4/2
ŧ
t
t
CHAMPAGNES.
Louis Roederer.. 5/2£ 10/-
I)ry Monopole .. 5/2| 10/-
Pommery 5/2 \ 10-
PiperHeidsieck... 5/2J 10/-
Perrier Jouet .. 5/- • 9/9
Krug .. .. 2/6 4/9 9/6
Vict’r Cliquot 2/6 4/6 8/6
LIQUEURS.
Absinthe (Pernod’s).. 7/-
Benedictine 5/-
Cherry Brandy .. .. 6/-
Ouracoa 6/6
Chartreuse 5/C
“ Creme de Menthe ” 3/6
BULK SPIRITS
(Per Gallon).
Brandy .. .. 16/- to 42/-
Whisky .. .. 15/- to 34/
Rum .. .. 13/- to 20/-
Gin .. .. 14/-to 20/-
WINES.
Australian 1/- 1/3 1/6
Imported .. 3/- 4/- 6/-
ţ
IMPORTED LAGERS.
Munich dark .. .. Bd. VI
Elberfeld 9d. 1/1
Franz Josef .. .. 9d. 1/1
RICHARDSON’S,
158 RUSSELL ST.,
Next BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HELS DON SPA is the ONLY NATURAL LITHIA WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 26.— N0. 1300. j
[Thursday, January 12, 1905.
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THIS WEEK’S NEW BOOKS.
Jacobs, W.W., Dicffstone Lane, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d.
Broome, Lady, Colonial Memories, 7s 6d, post 6d.
Edinburgh, pictured by John Fulleylove, 9s, post 9d.
Clennell, Chem. of Cyanide Solutions, 12s 6d, post 9d.
Hornhnan, Bellamy the Magnificent, 3s 6d, post 6d.
'almei With Kuropatkin in Manchuria, illustrated,
\ che£*> edition, —“ Qrl
Peters, C., England and the English, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Pinero, A.W., Petty: A Drama, Is 6d, post 4d.
Things Everyone Wants to Know, 2s 6d, post sd.
Gonne, Hints on the Horse, 6s, post 6d.
Connor, Ralph, Gwen, an Idyll, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Rita, The Silent Woman, paper, 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d.
Gould, F.C., Political Caricatures, 7s 6d f post 6d.
I & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 Castlereagh-st., Sydney. Also
, Brisbane & London
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE.
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
!
S B
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERa
HUDSON’S EUMENTNOL JUJUBES
Contain NO Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
THE RED PAGE.
A PRECIOUS POET
A CERTAIN poet went down from Tasmania
to Maoriland, and fell among words,
which stripped him of his simplicity, and
stunned him, and never departed, leaving
him half dead.
That is the parable of Hubert Church. Obses-
sion of “stunning words ” : even Rossetti could
not combat it. virtue they -have indeed, glory
they trail, they are the best of servants, yet once
suocumb to them and you lose all hope of mastery.
“ We are what our names make us,” and Church
lingers round the cathedral. He is over-fond of
ohancel, apse, fane, sanctuary, cloister, and their
kindred. His reliance on ecstacy with a c,
arc, wmber, precipice, voluted, chalice, cataract,
avalanohe, and others is fond folly. One un-
usual or obsolete word arrests the reader:
if it is rightly used he likes it; but a
repetition in doubtful cases destroys the charm,
persistency of repetition irritates and wearies.
Every “stunning word” is a little rock in the
stream of a poem : with a strong current the
stream flows over it and bears you along ; but the
interruption is perceptible. Church’s use of
ecstacy with a c has the effect of a telephone bell
ringing in one’s ear. The c is a characteristic
perversity. Ecstasy with an sis a beautiful word,
full-meaning, fair-sounding; but if its value is to
be preserved we must not seem to meet it on
every other page. Church moves in a circle of
language too limited : he needs to extend his vo-
cabulary. We have come to like voluted No. 1,
and moderately to love the verse that holds it:
and we dislike it. Sa,y, if you will, that our wit
is inelastic, and we retort that Church has no
authority to demand sudden adjustments: that
his office is to steal into the mind like a wind
“ out of the sweet South sliding,” or to dominate
like Zeus, and that if he does not steal and cannot
dominate he must not jolt.
Another complaint is of Church’s ear. There is
no rule or dogma that binds us in blank verse or
other : any verse that is rhythmical is acceptable,
any verse is welcome that is harmonious. But
Church writes “New Zealand” inverse nominally
regular, and writes lines like:
Surely Church does not think these, printed as
verse, are anything beyond elaborate prose ?
Throughout his little volume of Poems (Welling-
ton, Whitcombe and Tombs ; 3s. 6d.) his ear fails
him often. In rhymed measures he is less to be
complained of ; and the singular thing is that his
work has passages of harmony that are uncommonly
pleasant.
These are above ordinary cavil; and with them
Church mingles such monstrosities as we have
quoted. Indeed his beauties, like his faults,-'
abound; though too often he is occupied with
echoes of thought and phrase from Milton, Keats,
Wordsworth, and others, and from the most hack-
neyed passages of Milton, Keats, and Wordsworth.
This is so obvious that one need not stress by
quotation; though one wonders uselessly how
could Church write:
...the sea
Squanders ablution over the sea wrack
Where dead men lie...
how could he ! What blind spot in his brain
permits him, poet as he is, and student of litera-
ture, to be guilty of such a grating travesty ?
&
The first piece of Poems contains some eight
hundred lines of blank verse, several of which have
been quoted, describing and criticising Maori-
land. It is poetically conceived, yet in spite of
some beautiful thoughts and passages it is not a
good performance. The thought is scarcely im-
pressive, and the emotion is not transmitted : it
is chiefly an exhibition of fancy playing with
words, a mosaic of precious words where too
much is sacrificed to the pattern. There is alight
behind the words, but Church seems to want
vitality to force his message through. We like
lines like
Pardoner of offences, holy Time. ..
and if the piece were written on the level of its
best it would be good indeed.
Church takes his “New Zealand ” seriously, as
is fitting :he is rightly without humour. A poet
who pauses in his frenzy to wonder if he is ever so
little ridiculous will never accomplish much : he
must be single-eyed as well as single-hearted. Yet
we smile when he comes to politics in Seddon’s
Happy Isles—not because we agree or disagree.
but because he does not quite make his indigna-
tion valid : he seems rather small for .his stride.
This is for Advanced Maoriland to ponder over :
And, after a reference to revolutionary France,
Oh, tell me not
That Liberty is here ; forsooth her guides
Are stales too muddy for virginity.
This is seriously amusing. Then the Great Birth-
rate Question:
Bear land, for this I blame thee not alone
That u>e lack little feet about the door,
That now a pantomime of gaiety
Is dearer to the woman’s heart than love,
That is indeed love most when dowered with pain.
Oh! to be homely is too obsolete ;...
You see, Church wears his toga with an air, but
not precisely with the right air.
Some of the rhymed stanzas of “ Nuneham” and
“Tenebrae” are picturesque and melodious; but
in the former Church should have omitted the
names of John and Sarah, hero and heroine : it is
difficult to receive the full measure of tragedy in
verses about John, and Sarah. The sonnets are
tolerable only : two or three of the lyrics are
faintly sweet to linger over, in spite of flaws ; but
one must make an end. Church has the right
poetic mind : he feels sincerely, and can often
match a fine fancy with a fine phrase : he breathes
exalted air. Several pieces in The West Wind,
several passages in the Poems, are worthy to be
cherished. If he will cease paraphrasing the ideas
and language of others, and rid his work of crudi-
ties, obscurities, and extravagances—a not im-
possible task—he has the talent to do better still.
If I were as a shell upon the beach, —
The virgin calyx of voluted flowers,—
The utter magic of a song to teach
Sorrow a solace in belated hours,—
I should be more than I can ever be:
Beggared of doubt, nor wistful all to see.
Now Church comes with voluted No. 2 :
.. .the organ flame
Voluted and remote...
and voluted No. 3 :
A rose of womanhood, whose silken mind
Voluted her white petals to the core...
For rolling thunder to sail over, roaring ...
And lucent blue. She is never gathered...
Take invisible adoration, hear!...
The barren precipice thy supreme arch .. -
Like thee, mount, losing all the cerements rolled. ..
and scores more. One cannot understand the
man who wrote:
Break as all vows of love that unabides ...
writing:
Through adoration the supreme duty. We. ..
or :
Broke humanity’s heart; to wake with horn...
or :
Ruffling silky wings. Too much do we gain...
Mothed chambers of forgotten queens who lie
Within a rose’s perfume...
The cloud floats lonely from, the sea, her heart
Breaks on the mountains...
Suddenly treading where a song has slept,
Fallen from birds in darkness...
Beyond the mountains where the naiads hid
All day the moon from the beleaguering sun. ..
What though we dwell a little while and sleep
Beneath the drums and tramplings, men shall hold
From our dead bones the fief of majesty...
We have chosen
Chaos of squat intelligence that apes
Tyranny clothed in specious garb, and seeks
A fetid oracle, beslavering it
Equality of votes—harlot and nun.
One man, one vote, one destiny of dross,
One imbecility of ignorance
Barkening counsel; losing the path of truth,
Befogged in that Bcedalian swamp profound,
Bemocracy, ruffled by jangling winds
To noisome turbulence ; where Envy is king
And violence his vizier. Idle words,
A pure democracy t As well to speak
Of prostitution pure l
MKMORANDA
The vicissitudes of the local tribe of authors, the
heads we have pillowed and hit. Daley has been
in ill-health, and has settled in the rarer air of .
Orange, N.S.W. Lawson, who distinguished
himself the other day by dripping in the respue
of a wharf-fallen woman, lingers in Sydney : his
postponed book of verses should be published this
year. Paterson edits Sydney Evening News, and
confirms Poet Purtell’s declaration that the gross
public wants its literary stimulant strong. Bren-
nan and Brereton remain fixed in “steady jobs,”
the one at Sydney Public Library, the other in
the library of Sydney University. Ogilvie, as afore-
said, is an agricultural editor in the United States ;
Adams writes books and magazines in England.
Quinn, for some time employed to lure the wary
immigrant with descriptions of N.S.W. glories,
has been “retrenched ” by a reptilian Government,
and “ creeps home o’ nights ”to the Muse. Dyson
remains in Melbourne, labouring steadily. Brady
is editing N.S.W. Worker. Kenna keeps his seat
in Q. Legislative Assembly: verse touched him,
life shook him, politics hold him. Church is in a
Govt, office at Wellington ; Hebbleth waite in an
Anglican pastorate at Hobart. Eurphy, in Vic-
toria, makes agricultural implements all day and
books not all night : such is life. Farrell we miss
and regret. Bayldon is in Sydney, collecting sub-
scribers for a new book of verses. Browne mel-
lows in age in Melbourne, yet preserves the habit
of his pen. Of the ladies, young and younger,
Ethel Turner in Sydney is the regular writer with
the regular income from the regular public.
Louise Mack is reported in Italy, with a new book
to be published in the Eng. Spring. Mary Foott
lives quietly near Brisbane ; Mary Gilmore strenu-
ously on a Victorian farm. Ada Cambridge still
writes in Melbourne : a gentle melancholy tinges
her last book. Miles Franklin has added nothing
to her Career. Jessie Mackay teaches school in
Maoriland : it is time we had a collection of her
later and better verses. Arff there others ?—little
gleams, faded performances?—yet are not these
enough ? They are a handsome tribe, and we love
them all dearly (with the proper reservations).
An Age advt. over leader.:
“ The Melbourne Age is one of the ablest papers written
in the English language.”— National Review, for October,
190 k.
And what is The National Review ? As grim
Gibbon puts it, “ Abulfaragius vouches for
Abulfeda ; but who will vouch for Abulfaragius?”
One need not demur... yet... 0 that one could
join with Trenwith and say “ The Melbourne Age
is one of the noblest papers written in the Eng-
lish language.”
French commentary regarding the Russian
attack on the Hull fishing fleet: “ This time the
assailant did not say ‘ MM. les Anglais, tirez les
premiers ! ’ ”
Mrs. Craigie’snew play of The Flute of Pan having
been “booed ” by a Bond, audience, she adopted the
unconvincing expedient of giving a free perform-
ance (Nov. 23), and taking a triumphant plebiscite
that ‘ ‘ this play should not have been condemned.”
Without saying anything about The Flute, one is
bound to say that Mrs. C.’s recent literary appear-
ances have been rather tiresome: if she would be
content to consider herself not quite a classic, and
would cease from polishing all the life out of her
ideas, she would be much more acceptable.
An Eng. minor poet, Francis Burdett Thomas
Money Coutts, advertises solemnly—yea! in advts.
paid for in good round coin—that he has relin-
quished three middle names, and will be known as
Francis Coutts baldly evermore, Amen. That a
minor poet should throw away even the name of
Money ! This ruinous craze for simplicity.
Mrs. Maybrick, the poisoner, has been exalted
into something very like a heroine in America
since her release, and some of the best papers are
printing her reminiscences under the title of A
Travesty of Justice. The bones of the arsenicated
husband must be pretty clean by this time, and
nobody thinks of him taking death trustfully from
the tender hands of his loving wife. Curious how,
in these poisoning cases, so much sympathy is
lavished on the criminal and sis accomplices, and
so little on the victim.
CURRENT FICTION
WHO reads an American book ? ” Every-
body. The ancient sarcasm holds
only the reminiscent ghost of satire.
More : we are beg.nning to read
American books that are distinctly American,
that reflect the eager, practical, sentimental mind
which is essentially America s# In poetry, the
characteristic note is not discernible ; m phuosop ay
one seems to find nationality in the peculiar zeal
with which American students devote themselves
to experimental science, rejecting or revising rneta-
physics in accordance with the result of classified
observations,; but in fiction, though only within the
last five years, one is assured that the tempera-
ment of the States has found a true and definite ex-
pression. We have the novel of journalism, the
novel that Norris prefigured, yet was too cos-
mopolitan and too reflective to write, the novel
as concocted by Merwin and Webster, and—less
characteristically—by McGrath, Phillips, and some
others.
It is not a realistic novel in the ordinary sense,
though it deals with events and personages that
are transcribed from life. Nor is it idealistic :
there is no conscious aim toward an interpretation
of life in terms of art. It is journalistic : that is
to say, it doctors realism cunningly to be palat-
able to the public of readers, instead of permitting
the fact to work its own inevitable issue : it pre-
sents things as they are in the colours of things as
they might be if the journalist’s “ story could be
rounded off to suit a romantic taste. The style,
like the matter, is a brisk and clever journalist s,
trained to economise space. And again in the
manner of journalism, the plan is to deal bril-
liantly with crucial episodes, minimising exordium
and peroration, and giving rather a swift, flashing
impression than a pondered history. The plan
fits the American reader’s need that is governed
by haste and impatience, and in an age of shallow
literature has much to recommend it.
The best example of the real American novel—
the novel in a cocktail, briefly stimulating—is
still Calumet “ A,” written by two authors colla-
borating, and published in 1901. It is the
story of the building of a grain elevator—the
story of a battle. The hero is typically American,
hasting, unresting: his very name of Bannon
suggests his quickness of thought and action.
He fights: fights slack workmen, willing work-
men ignorant what to do, labour agitators and
dishonest railway managers, material and mental
enemies and the arch-enemy Time. The story of
his battle and conquest is breathless and absorb-
ing, and through all a thread of sentiment
twines to the sentimental issue of the
hero’s marriage with a slow, deep, lovable
woman representing the adapted Scandinavian
element in American character. Ihe incidents
are as natural as the personages ; the style is ver-
nacular : it is a page of real life dexterously con-
verted to literary uses, and gravitating with
scarcely a sign of manipulation to the desired end.
The same plan is pursued in all the stories of
the class. The Banker and the Bear tells of a
Stock Exchange struggle ; The Short Line War is a
contest for possession of a railroad. In both cases
the chief incidents are taken hot from current
American life: the details are 'varied only so far
as to bring triumph to the side of the angels anc
a happy marriage to the strenuous hero. .There
is no great warmth in any of the stories : a quick
flare, and all’s over, with combustion too perfect
for ashes. The simplicity and cleverness of the
work excite admiration : it is not great art, but it
exhibits the height of cleverness in handling tools
and machinery. And withal
Withal one likes the English books better. They
reflect the English character : they are solid and
staunch, less flexible and more enduring. They
appeal to one as literature, not as journalism, and
throw deeper roots in a reader’s mind. Many
good second-class novels came from England last
year, and those published by the house of Con-
stable were especially remarkable : that house
must have a “ reader ”of uncommon gifts. Several
have been noticed here from time to time, and
there are two more recent that agreeably vary
one’s opinion regarding the comparative worth-
lessness of women’s work — Paths of Judgement, by
Anne Sedgwick, and The Divine Fire , by May
Sinclair. Both are unusually good performances
in fiction: both are the work of students of
Meredith: they might suggest a Meredith
without his electrical crackle of phrase.
Paths of Judgement is the more compact and
shapely book : the story of two men and a woman,
with the woman’s error of choice fortunately
adjusted by the suicide of the superfluous man.
The book is bounded by the Eng. marriage laws,
and the author can only justify her attitude by an
arbitrary ending that conveniently cuts her knot:
a weakness. But within their tether. the char-
acters are bravely pictured ; there is a rich fund of
ideas; and the story is sufficiently moving—
decidedly it is worthy to be read.
The Divine Fire is by an author embarrassed
with her riches ; she has so much detail, and none
of it bad, that her story loses a clear outline of
form. If with justifiable pangs she had cut
out one-third of the middle of the book,
one would have liked it better. Here we are
introduced to Genius in Poetry, and the externals
of genius are fairly well preserved. Unluckily
the author is in the fix of all who offer a miracle :
to make it work she must needs be miraculous,
and that is out of the question. She does
indeed offer one unconvincing sonnet by her
marvellous boy, and for the rest has to
depend upon the quoted enthusiasm ef
the chorus. Journalists in London are given
considerable prominence in the plot; but the
women are the more lifelike figures. The book is
broad in scope, and the flesh and the devil receive
due play before the Genius reaches the arms of the
lady of the manse. Now and again come little
critical flashes to brighten the picture, which
certainly is uncomnftnly well studied. May
Sinclair should go higher still.
Add to these Bray of Buckholt (published
bv Blackwood, Bond. ; 2s. 6 d.), a ve*y full and
sound study of English rural character : in a way
as good as Hardy, if wanting his humour and his
distinguishing outlook on the infinite; and you
have three pieces of fiction that one would not
exchange for a hundred of The Cost, or The Man
on the °Box, or The Boss, or their kindred—the
ingenious, temporary emanations of the curious
American mind.
Advt. Our esteemed advertiser, The George Robertson
Proprietary Co., Ltd., desires -expression made of the
pleasure with which se will supply any books here
mentioned.
REUEIVED
The Expression of the Emotions in Mam, and
Animals , by C. Darwin (Lond., Murray ; 2s. (hi.
net). One by one Darwin’s books are falling out
of copyright; and the ingenuous publisher antici-
pates rivals by issuing popular editions that can
scarcely be surpassed. The Origin, the Journal,
the Descent of Man, Vegetable Mould, and Orchid
Fertilization are all now obtainable at half-a»
crown net, so handsomely printed, illustrated, and
bound that they rank as publisher's triumphs in
the way of cheap books. Darwin s other volumes
will doubtless follow. All our aspiring young
men should purchase them : Darwin’s mind was
a beautiful mechanism, and remains a con-
tinual source of wonder and delight.—l his
particular book of the Emotions should be studied
by local illustrators, who often err egregiouslym
depicting facial and bodily expression. ihe
gesture of surprise, for example, shown by 616-
vated arms, is nearly always drawn wrong. .
The Forest Flora of N. S. Wales, by J. H.
Maiden, part 12, (Syd., Govt. Printer; Is. A»
especially interesting number, dealing with tne
cypress pines and bloodwood, fully figured botani-
cally. The writer quotes looal versers for descrip-
tion of his pines and the local market for prom)
to be obtained from gathering the gum. We stul
press for the inclusion of a photographic plate to
picture the general character of the tree described:
four or more trees can come on one page.
“Der” and “Do,” by Louisa Lawson (Syd.,
Dawn office). A pretty little tale of children and
Santa Claus, with some imaginative irrelevancies.
Mrs. Lawson has all a woman’s power of observa-
tion and talent for realistic description ; but when
she dives into pure fiction she leaves one breath-
less. Incidentally, as woman’s genius and women s
hands have it all their own way at The Davm
office, we want to ask Mrs. Lawson kindly why
the Freed Female doesn’t learn to print a little
better ?
Benbonuna, by Robert Bruce (Lond., Long;
2s. 6d. ). Apparently a re-issue of a book regard-
ing which The Manchester Courier affirms that
“ Sir. Bruce has long won his literary spurs in the
Land of the Southern Cross, his novel Benbonuna
winning him a great reputation as a writer of
fiction m South Australia, and earning for him the
sobriquet of “The ‘Boldrewood’ of South Aus-
tralia.” One is bound to say that “ the sobriquet
is not wholly undeserved. The author reprints the
opinions of other British journals on his book of
verses, Re-echoes from Coondambo : e.g., The
Catholic Times:
... the range of his-vision is extensive, and he is always
ready to show his appreciation of good work. In the
following lines he pays- a tribute to the Sisters of St.
Joseph:
With steady faith they onward, go,
With wretchedness to cope ;
The orphan’s pain, the widow’s woe
Are softened by their ready flow
Of charity- and hope,
[Query : “ Soap ”?] The Aberdeen Free Brest
says:
.. . many of them have the true lyric spirit. There is
great variety in the versification, but it is always musical,
and seems as though it had been written to a tune...
here axe four lines, entitled “ An Echo ” :
An old man to the altar led
A gay amd frisky lass ;
Then afterwards, like Echo, said,
A-las! A-lasl A-las !
Everybody will recognise “ the tune.” The Aber-
deen Journal seems to- question the author 8
supremacy. It says:
Mr. Robert Bruce ... and Mr. William S. Walker are
running each other hard for the title of “ The Rolf Boldre-
wood of South Australia.”
Mr. William S. Walker’s claim is also admitted,
—The Aberdeen Journal continues:
Mr. Bruce’s life as a squatter and his sympathy with
Nature in all her moods and aspects has provided him
with manv a theme for song ; and nothing—from a butting
kangaroo," a dingo, a rabbit, or a blowfly, to dear old Engj!
land, Cardinal Manning, or the sea-serpent—is too high or
too low for his impartial Muse.
One dislikes the sinister conjunction of dear old
England and the blowfly. There are subjects
which, if not “too high” for a blowfly, should
certainly be accounted too low for an impartial
Muse. What does Robbie Burns say ? He says :
We maunna make o’ menseless lugs, jh
The Muse amang the midden-dubs
Is sair misca’d.
The Dundee Courier comments more fitly: j
As a novelist Mr. Bruce earned for himself the title of
“ Rolf Boldrewood of South Australia,” and his inimitable
verses on,like matter hail him the Kipling of that country
Again we bow in acquiescence; for The Echo
supplies ‘ such lines as the following, from ‘ The
Hunt of the Manawirtu Coodla.’ ”
So leaving it for wocalla, for wildoo, and for weepa,
We’ll play the last big coodla left—that spring-heeled
gnoorie leaper. " ifl
Aut Kiplingus Australissimus aut diabolus! —
Benbcmvma is “ a tale of the fifties,” very dull. The
author has some fair material that he lacks skill
to use forcibly. He appears to be one of those
excellent elderly Scotchmen with a literary hobby
and money enough to ride it. The only complaint
against him is, that he causes or permits himself
to be represented to or in third-rate British jour-
nals as “the Australian” this-or-that, thereby
bringing our country into ridicule and contempt.
There is no great harm in Benbonuna, but it is
damnable that atrocious rhymes such as those w@
have quoted should be puffed round Britain as
Australian, when the discredit belongs to Paisley
or Dumfries.
A.G.S.


t
STOCK
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
' SYDNEY, ___
HOMEBUSH (N.S.W.) YARDS.
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
SHEEP and CATTLE SALESMEN. ___
For FISHING TACKLE
MICK SIMMONS,
Havmarfcet. SYDNEY
,
o
<s
£
>
BEST QUALITY
Greenheart Rods,
12ft., 3 Joints, 2 Tops, Lock Joints, 50s each
12ft., 3 ~ 2 ~ Double Braized, 20s each
13ft., 3 „ 2 ~ Cork Grip, 265, 20s each
12ft., 3 „ 2 „ Best Fittings, 15s each
12ft., 3 „ 1 „ Best Fittings, 8s each
12ft., 4 „ 1 i, Best Fittings, 12s 6d each
10ft.’, 4 „ 3 „ Hollow Butt, 30s each
Bft., 4 „ 2 ~ Trunk Rods—
10s Od, 13s 6d, 12s 9d, 10s 6d each
1 Top, 7s 3d each
Greenheart Rods, any description
built to ORDER, Is 6d per ft.
Best Split
Cane Rods.
12ft., 3 Joints, 2 Tops,
Cork Grip & Handle,
50s each.
12ft., 3 Joints, 2 Tops,
Cork Grip, 40s each.
12ft., 3 Joints, 2 Tops,
Cork Grip, 22s 6d each.
12ft., 3 Joints, 2 Tops,
(in Wooden Case), Cork
Handle, 11s 0d each.
nr—.niM——.———i=s»
mem ■ ■_. mn—— -— a| HaS'ffl Tft"i7i'Tl'"'T T
MoMO
Best Hickory Rods
14ft., 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 27s 6d each
12ft., 4 Joints, 1 Top, 5s 6d each
12ft., 3 Joints, 1 Top, 4s 9d each
12ft., 4 Joints, 2 Tops, 14s 6d each
10ft., 5 Joints, 2 Tops, 5s each
12ft., 3 Joints, 1 Top, 2s each
Best Lancewood Rods
12ft., 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 10s 6d each
32ft., 4 Joints, 1 Top, 5s 6d each
12ft., 3 Joints, 1 Top, 2s each
12ft., 3 Joints, 1 Top, 7s each
10ft., 3 Joints, 1 Top, Is 6d each
12ft., 4 Joints, 1 Top, Is each
Best Quality East India Cane Rods
16ft., 4 Joints, 2 Tops, 30s each 18ft., 4 Joints, 2 Tops, 24s each
16ft., 4 Joints, 20s each 16ft., 4 Joints, 1 Top, 7s 6d each
15ft., up to 171 t., 4 Joints, 1 Top, 10s 6d each. 16ft., 3 Joints, 3s 6d each
-
rtf?
Nottingham
Wood
Reels
No. 3. Walnut Check lle<
(2 Plates), Brass Insii
Lining'—3in., 8s 6d ea.
3^in., 9s 6d ea. ; 4in.
10s 6d ea. ; sin., 18s lie
each
Walnut Check Reel, Star
Back, No Guard, —3in.,
5s 6d ea. ; 3 Jin., 6s 3d
ea.; 4in., 7s ea.; 4Jin.,
8s 6d each
ţ
a i
If? I
No. 1. Polished Walnut
Reel, Brass Back—2in.,
Is 9d ea. ; 2£in., 2s ea. ;
3in., 3s ea. ; 3Jin., 3s 6d
ea. ; 4in., 4s each
Gun-metal
Check Reel
2iin., 3s 6d ea ; 2fin., Gs 0
ea. ; 2iij„ 14s ea.; Sin..
16s 9d each
Brass
Check Reals
Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d each
Boys’ Wood Reels
2in., 5d ea. ; 2£in., 7d ea. ;
3in., lOd each
ť
Trout,
Herring,
Perch,
Sprat.
t
We carry a Large and Varied Stock of Flies of all Descriptions.
Best Quality Trout Flies, Nos. 6 to 12 Hooks, Is 9d per dozen.
Best Quality Herring or Sprat Flies, Nos. 14 to 6 Hooks, Is per dozen.
Best Quality Perch Flies to Looped Gut, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d each.
Best Quality Perch Flies on 8 inch Looped Gut, Nos. 3, 2/0 Hooks, 4d, 6d, 9d each.
Best Quality Artificial Prawns, Is each ; Shrimp, Cd each ; Rubber Frogs, 9d each.
Best Quality Halcyon Spinners for Trout or Perch, lin., Is each ; ljin., Is 3d each.
Turn Down Eyed
Trout Flies
Nos. 14 to 8 hooks,
Is 9d dozen
ţ
BAIT CANS.
JAPANNED BAIT CANS, for Carrying Live Minnows,
8s 6d, 10s 6d each.
PATENT ZINC BAIT CAN, for Carrying Live Minnows, 6s each.
DOUBLE-SIDED TACKLE BOX, for Casts, Traces, Gut, &c., 6d each
JAPANNED BAIT BOXES, Is, 2s 6d each
JAPANNED MINNOW BOX, Is 6d each
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports and
Tobacco Lists Post Free.
Barrel
Floa-
The Patent Nyssa Fishing Floats
(Can he used as Sliding or Fixed Floats).
Egg Float.
BARREL SHAPE.
ljin., l|in., 4d each ; 2in., 21in., 5d
each ; 2}in., 6d each ; 3in., 7d each ;
3Jin., 8d each ; 4in.,9d each ; 4jin.,
1/- each ; sin., 1/3 ea. ; Gin., 1/6 ea.
EGG SHAPE.
1 Jin., ljin., 4d. each ; 2in. 5d each ;
21in., Cd each; 2iin., 7d each,
2|in., 8d each; 3in., fid each,
3Jin., 1/- each : 4in„ 1,3 each.
TWILL BAG.
No. 3.—Twill Bag, with
2 Divisions and Move-
able Strap, 14in.,
2s 3d each.
Brown Canvas Open
Sides, 12in., 4s 6d J
14in., 6s 6d each.
Striped Canvas Bags,
16in., 9d each.
ANGLER’S BASKETS
12in., 6s : 14in., 7s 3d ;
16in., 8s 6d ; 18in., 9s 6d each.
Tanned Web Movable Straps
for Basket?, Is 3d each.
Tanned Web Straps, 3in.,
Is 6d each.
r*
No. >
WWKV
Patent
ť
Devon.
S.ALLCOCK&C 0 -!
Ring -mounted
Devon
Minnows
Assorted Colors.
Uhl., ljin., l|in., 2in., Is 3d each
Bineed Devon Minnows, in Colors,,
ljin., l£in., 1 Jin., 2in., Is 6d each
Silk
Phantom
M r nnows
ltin., 2in., 2sin.,
2Jin., 2s each
Pearl Minnows 2/6 ea
_ , * • Bright or Japanned Hooks to Bin.
Baft leet’S g Blue or White Gut (tied on).
Nos. 10 to 1.0, 8d dozen ; 2/0, 9d dozen ; 3/0, 10d dozen.
ŧ
t
SILKWORM GUT
25in. hank, 3d,
4d, sd, 6d, Bd,
X/-, 1/6 per hank
The Reliable Silkworm Cut Casts an
Traces. Blue, White or Green.
1 yard Casts—ld, 2d, 3d, 4d, 6d each.
2 yard Casts —2d, 4d, 6d, Bd, Is each.
U yards Traces, fitted with 2 Swivels, 6d, 9d,
Is, Is 3d, Is 6d each.
BEST SILKWORM CUT, in 100 Lots Blue
White or Green, 9m., 9d 100 , 10in-, 10d
100 • llin., Is 100 ; 12m., Is 3d 100. Best
Selected, 12in., Is Od, Is Qd, 2s 6d, 3s, 5s Od,
13s 6d, 17s 6d per 100.
The CROWN Waterprool SILK LINE,
40yds. on Cork or in Coil, Is 6d each.
Waterproof Silk Twist Lines, 3*3 yards on Cork
Nos 30 to 24, 3d each ; 22, 4>d each ; 20, 5d
each ; 18, sjd each ; 16, 6d each , 14, < d
each ; 12, 8d each ; 10, 9d each ; 8, Is each ,
6 Is 3d each ; Fitted for Bream, 2d extia.
V
riSHUK LIU
The Famous Waterproof English Flax
F On Cork-
Lines
-Extra Strong.
_ JO
- 60
Bream, 60. 50yds, 9d ea.;
' 100yds., Is 6d ea.
Flathead, 30. 50yds., Is
ea.; 100yds., 2s ea.
on Cork, Extra Extra
Strong.
Thp Renavned English Hemp Lines,
-f 4-0
Bream and Flathead Lines.
Bream, 80. 50yds,, 9d
ea.; 100yds., Is 3d ea.;
150yds., Is 9d ea.
Flathead, 40. 50yds., Is
ea.; 100yds., Is 9dea.;
150yds., 2s 6d ea.
Our Special Bure Catch
Lines, on Reels—
Bream, 60. 25yds., 3d
ea.; 50yds., 6d ea. ;
100yds., Is ea.
Flathead, 30. 50yds.,
6dea. ; 100yds., Is
ea.; 150yds., Is 8d
each
Our Special SURE CATCH Schnapper Lines
Rolled on Cork or Reel.
100yds., 9 cord, Is 2d each
100yds., 12 cord, Is 6d each
100yds., 15 cord, Is 6d each
100yds., 18 cord, Is 6d each
100yds., 27 cord, Is 9d each
100yds., 36 cord, 2s 6d each
150yds., Is 9d each
150yds., 2s 2d.each
150yds., 2s 2d each
150yds., 2s 2d each
150yds., 2s 6d each
150yds., 3s 6d each
200yds., 2s each
200yds., 2s lid each
200yds., 2s lid each
200yds., 2s lid each
200yds., 3s 3d each
200yds., ,4s 6d, each
tMCn
CANT-6 beat
f-
sinnor,,
CAKTeBEAT
Remittance and Freight must accompany Order.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEED FOR LISTS.
MICK SIMMONS, Havmarket, Sydney


FOR BABY’S SHIN
SCALP AND HAIR
Something for Mothers to Think About
EVERY CHILD bom into the world with an inherited
or early developed tendency to distressing, disfiguring
humours of the skin, scalp, and blood, becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not only because of its suf-
fering but because of the dreadful fear that the disfigura-
tion is to be lifelong and mar its future happiness and
prosperity. Hence it becomes the duty of mothers of
such afflicted children to acquaint themselves with the
best, the purest, and most effective treatment available,
viz., THE CUTICURA TREATMENT.
Warm batha with Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales
and soften the thickened cutjcle, gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, to instantly allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, to be followed in the severer cases by mild doses of Cuticura Resol-
vent Pills (see below), to cool and cleanse the blood, are all that can be
desired for the alleviation of the suffering of skin-tortured infants and
children and the comfort of worn-out, worried mothers. A single set is
often sufficient to cure when the best physicians fail.
Millions of Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Cotioura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for
cleansing the scalp of crußts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping of falling hair, for
softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings,
and ehanngs, in the form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
Cuticura Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated) are prepared to meet the wants of
delicate women, and sensitive children, and are pure, sweet, and tasteless. They are
beyond question the most successful blood purifiers and humour cures yet compounded.
CuticuhA Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns ft Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq , London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Potter Drug and Chem.
Coßr.. Sole Proos,, Boston, U. S. A. “ All about the Skin." free.
. A .
SOLID
GOLD
SHELL
RING
ţ
ť
V
£et with Three Simulative Rubies or Opals, and mounted in Genuine
Claw Setting. FRFE for One Day’s Work.
A Grand Opportunity to get your Christmas Gifts Free.
We send this Beautiful Bing for selling only 6s. worth of our Pink Blossom Perfume
at Bd. a package. Send your full name and address by return mail, and we will >• end the
l eriume post paid. No money required- We send the perfume at our own You
go among your neighbours and sell it, send us the money that you get for it (65.) and
we will send you the Ring as described, post paid. We are giving these Kings to
quickly introduce our new Perfume and ptop e who have received prizes from us are
delighted. It costs you nothing to try—we pay all expenses. W hen you dispose of our
goods and send us the money, we send with your King a proposition which, for the con-
tinued sale of our goods you can earn a great variety of articles, such as Jewellery,
Silverware, Furniture, &c., Ac. In fact, you can furnish your house without investing
ai.y of your own money. We also appoint General Agents on Cash Commission.
Petal Perfumery Co., Offices & Laboratories, 350 George St,. Sydney, N.S.W.
“Dept. A.A." remember, our perfume is only 3d. per package.
OOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS lIOVV TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. i}d. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
F arrow’s
ŧ
The Best British-Made Mustard
DIRECT FROM THE GROWERS.
The Pungent snap and refined flavour of this
Mustard are unequalled. There is none like it.
It makes meat taste as good again, and gives
zest and savour to the food.
THE FINEST THAT MONEY CAN BUY.
Mustard
J. FARROW & CO., PETERBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
litd.
SYDNB "ST,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine fo*
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDSi
MAGNESIA
t
UNTIL CURED.
JL
v
V
IfMJ#
PS
W«'"
DR. AUSTIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
Is sold on this Basis to Men and
Women everywhere: Not to he
paid for until the Cure is Complete.
The Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only remedy in the
world which can be sold on such a plan. It is the only
never-failing: cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back
and Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder and Stomach
Troubles; in fact, all Chronic Diseases of Men and
Women. It cures after all other remedies have failed.
Why? Because it restores nerve life, animal vitality,
warmth and vigor to all the weakened parts.
Drugs only Stimulate, Dr. Austin’s
Electric Belt gives Lasting Strength,
Its Cures are Permanent.
fay when cured.
You pay only when cured, if you can offer reasonable security. Failure to cure costs you nothing. _ The
Dr. Austin Belt is warranted on a bond of £lOOO to give a stronger current, last longer, and to cure quicker
than any other electric body appliance made. We make no charge for advice, written or personal.
E/mrs K m!<r Write for our Beautifully-Illustrated Medical Book and Letters from Cured Patients,
sent (sealed) FREE. WRITE TO-DAY, and you will be satisfied with the result.
The Dr* Austin Improved Electric Belt Co*,
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
We are receiving Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
WILL ANDRADE’S ust of BOOKS
ţ
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over SO engravings, new
1904 edition, hard covers,
improved, 3s 6d. Magic Up-
to-Date, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illus-
trated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Maria
Monk, Is 6d How to
Dance, Is. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d. Nana ; Piping Hot ;
Rush for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series,
2s. Little Folks’ Reciter., Popular Reciter,
Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger
Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is i
post, Is 3d. Britain for the British, sd.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190 illus.,
Is 3d. Motor Car Construction— Steam, Petrol,
Electric*Petrol-Electric, 800 illus., 255, postage 2s6d
Macfadden’s Physical Training, Is. Virile Powers
op Superb Manhood, ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Hep-
tameron, and many others, all in cheap edition. Bride
of the First Night, 1/3. Rosario, the Female Monk,
2/. How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining. Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing,
1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clair-
voyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is. How
to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing. Is 3d. How to Make Love. Is. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Picture
Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is.
Money Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets,
Is 3d. Letter Writer Up -to - Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, hy Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor. Is. French Art Studies, real
photos, 290 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas en-
gines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, ls. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise. 1 s 6d. Stolen Sweets, ls6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 16s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues :—No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORST CPU OHS.
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism.Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only,.effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizks, 9d. Si la. 6dl
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMLAN’B
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment.
it will not burn or blister the
skin -There is nothing to
wear round the body to
foster germs-it is sure,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
NOT BEING
A BELT
No Electric Belt is worth more than
£1 of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
WRITE
for my new book ( illustrated) “Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and what you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON, H £ E CS
12S COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE.
Eff™ 8 B*% IP 3 IP 23
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by t.'tifc justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS
PITAL PHYSICIAN an
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing-sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their seriou consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple ! c al who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St,,.


PECTORAL
“ We are old friends, this bottle and
I. We have known each other for over
Sixty years. When a boy I was always
baking cold, but a few doses of this
medicine would at once set me right.
“ When a young man I had a weak
throat and weak lungs. My friends
feared some lung trouble, but
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
greatly strengthened my throat, cleared
up my voice, and took away the ten-
dency for every cold to go to my lungs.
“ Last year I had a bad attack of la
grippe. The only medicine I took was
from this bottle, and I came out all
right. I know it’s good, too, for
asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia,croup.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J, C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Maea., U.S.A.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
DAY
tiSS
§ i
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: " ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
» WOOD-MILNE-
REVOLVING
HEELPAO
Save Po„ h
* YE fl “
W A
m
MORE
QOKE
IN !!«*»*/THE
BOOT
r Walking fatigue
Reduced.
Corrects ilglp Walking.
Keeps Boots Sbapeable.
The Wood-Milne Pads save all nerve jar, and
when wearing them one might be walking on
springy turf, so marked is the buoyant feeling.
Sold by every up-to-date Boot and Shoe
Dealer and General Storekeeper.
CAUTION S SEETHE NAME
"WOOD-MILNE" ON EVERY PAD.
Sole Agents tor Australasia t
D, & W. MURRAY, LTD.
Abelaide, South Australia.
Perth, Western Australia-
Kalooorlie, Western Australia.
Melbourne, Victoria.
Launceston, Tasmania.
Brisbane, Queensland.
Townsville, Queensland.
Broken Hill, New South Wales.
A POLICY for tub COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gd; Posted, Bd.
BONN INGTQNS
IRISH MOSS
C
Will Stop a Cough
;7 any other art/cte for ,'fre o u roc seders/na<d
[docs- acts /f/re a charm ;•//?•. a hey tap the /rritahor
/'A s 5 adw-wabty adapted for ch/tdreh as wet/ as:'
7«i7»/»£ ( j re . a Cold n obe'SA'
prepare A/on cert he used, many cases of ctfron/c drcnehf-
its have teen eso/utety cured t>y the use of the //?/sa moss sub -
*/b s tethers. <$ smgers throo/tiout the cour/try use tttarget/ to
Sfrenghferv-, fhe Voice and many
well kho/h ectors<and vocat/sts hhiee teshf/ed ro thedad-
decAaMprcpert/es ofßon/ngtons rn/sn moss as a rorte
testeratfteh fothpsf dfb. are at att weak chested rtf
scat once recommended,to
Build up fhe Lungs
f p
?mwm
ht r. r & m m . <
*4 .* txJr'drdh■ • j .v».
n?akm^
ve remedy for a/t
m f/s tarty stager
/tsuse.
Sold Everywhere
WINCHESTER
Thumb Trigger Model Rifle
EZ&
SOMETHING NEW
SOMETHING NOVEL
A novelty in .22 caliber rifles. As its name indicates, the trig-
ger, located upon the upper side of the grip at the rear of the
bolt, is operated by pressing down with the thumb, thus obvi-
ating <* pull off” in firing. Simplicity and quickness of action
are its features. It is a take-down, and has the widely imi-
tated Winchester bolt action. Notwithstanding its low price,
its quality is the same as that of all Winchester rifles.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO
You can get everything you require at the BIG BLOCK in MEN’S WEARABLES.
For the convenience of our Country Friends we are quoting the Following
Lines, POST FREE.
Reacly-to-Wear Black Alpaca Sac Coats
sizes 3toB, at 13s each. Vests to match at 6s each,
post free.
Ready-to-Wear Striped Brilliant Coats,
sizes 3toB, at 12s each. Vests to match, 5s 6d each.
Black Clerical Coats, sizes 3 to 8, at 20s 6d
each, post free.
Celluloid Collars, in all leading shapes, at 4s 9d
the half-dozen, post free.
Khaki Trousers, Past Dye, Stockman’s cut, sizes
3 to 7, at 8s 3d, post free.
Compare our values in Men’s Wearables with anything- offering- elsewhere.
You will then prove that you can save money by spending it at .
The Stockman Shirt, a great station line, white
ground, neat stripes, strong and dependable, witt
collar and pocket, 24s 6d the half-dozen, post free.
White Silk Tennis Shirt, with collar am
pocket, splendid value, at 10s, 11s, 12s each, post free
White Mat Tennis Shirt, with collar am
pocket, a grand wearing shirt, 3 for 8s 6d, post free.
Men’s Lamington Felt Hats, with cut edge
in Fawns, Greys, Slates and Browns, at 5s 6d, 7s 6d
9s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, post free.
Men’s Black Cashmere Half-Hose, Fasi
Dye, dependable goods, at 6s 6d the half dozer
post free.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., The Big Block, BRISBANE
if?
Betrothed f
THEN COME HERE FOR THE RING.
/ have many Beautiful Engagement Rings,
Sparkling with Purity.
Prices are as low as perfect Gems can
be sold for.
HERE ARE A FEW ILLUSTRATIONS.
Send for my Catalogue and Size Card for the finger.
ť
ŧ
t
Extra fine, 5 large Dia-
monds, Half Hoop Ring,
£l2 12s. to £2O.
18ct., large Diamond in.
centre, Kubies or Sapphires;
70/-
Three Diamonds, Kubiea
or Sapphires, 65/-
ţ
Half Hoop Diamond Ring>
5 white stones, £5.
AND AT IPSWICH AND TOOWOOMBA.
ifsMfflr
Queer) sH
'\ ' "Is.*, “ *
%
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Captives of the Flesh.
Oh, beat not with thy soft white hands our cage’s
iron bars!
Why fretful writhe within the gyves when chafing
brings but scars ?
Why listen to the vague discord that Nature’s
music mars ?
Could thou but have thy will, dear, and stand
without the bars,
The way is long and chill, dear, to reach those
distant stars.
I see the morning sun’s warm beams shine free
within this cell;
The flowers bloom fair within my view, the birds
their message tell;
I would not leave my prison home amongst the
stars to dwell.
Oh, if we left this land, dear, to wander in the
frost,
I could not hold thy hand, dear, and we shou’d
both be lost!
I love the motley prison dress that keeps thee by
my side,
The garb that fears no close caress nor can thy
graces hide;
No stellar ray could paint thy cheek as doth the
young blood’s tide.
Why seek to roam afar, dear ; here’s room for you
and me ;
Our love’s a brighter star, dear, than rides the
cloudy sea.
Oh, seek not with impatient hands to raze the
prison walls !
In time the stoutest iron decays, the strongest
fortress falls;
Come, rest within my circling arms till Death the
bugler calls.
We’ll burn the iron bars, dear, in passion’s glow-
ing fires,
Then we may reach the stars, dear, fit home for
dead desires,
vio.
W.G.H.
A Year Ago.
You are dying ! I hear them say.
Alack ! and alas ! that the young should die,
But my heart beats back to a yesterday
Where the swallows wheeled in a lilac sky,
And a song floats up from the far away,
The heart’s own music that lives for aye.
There’s a road that leads to the heart of the Spring,
A winding pathway with many a turn,
And ever the bells of the fairies ring,
And ever the poppy hearts blaze and burn ;
Time sits a-dream where the roses cling
By the road that leads to the heart o’ the Spring.
There’s a road that leads to the peace o’ the grave,
A strait, strait road where the nightshade clings,
And the heart that withheld, or the hand that gave,
Shall soon be accounted as little things.
You are dying ! God ! how the gray
Chokes the red gold of the yesterday.
There’s a road that windeth from East to West,
From North to South, as the earth roads go ;
It is fevered with fires of the heart’s unrest;
It is sodden with tears you may never know.
They say you are dying ! Nay, whisper low !
You died with the roses—a year ago !
TAS.
M. E. J. PITT.
The Two Messengers.
Joy comes carolling down the road,
And drinks at ev’ry inn he passes :
He is always dressed in the latest mode,
And laughs with all the lads and lasses.
And he cocks his hat in his festive way,
And loiters onward softly singing ;
For he loves to see the sunbeams play,
And hear the bells of flowers ringing.
But his brother Care to his goal goes straight,
All passing pleasures darkly scorning :
Neither wine nor women can make him wait—
He comes to you at early morning.
N.S.W.
Y.J.D.
The Toiler.
He labors up the hill at early dawn
To toil at bidding of the Syndicate,
And wide green sweeps of undulating lawn
Smile up at him expectantly elate.
The range’s heads displace the blanket mist
To better hear the magpies’ morning song,
And jackass laughs to jackass; leaves dew-kissed
Nod o’er the river as it glides along.
The sun sends herald-rays o’er mist-wrapped rifts;
Tall chimneys wreathe smoke-ladders to the sky;
Around the housetops chirp the busy swifts ;
The yawning cattle rise and stretch and sigh ;
Then bursts day-splendor over vale and hill;
The marigolded sweeps new glory take,
The valley that an hour ago lay still
Pulsates with Life re-born—the World’s awake.
With pick on shoulder, see him trudge along,
Grim, hardened, doomed to slave for others’ gain,
No time to sort out right from piles of wrong.
Nor time to groan when racked with dreary pain.
He pauses on the summit of the hill,
Looks down to valleys, up to rock brows chafed,
And of the morning-glory drinks his fill.
Exultant, grateful for the joy vouchsafed.
The Syndicate has claimed the vassal’s days
And listed things that are and are not his;
Has almost claimed the soul of him it pays,
An asset in its balance-sheet he is.
But this possession Heaven grants him still—
Clear of all mortgage to the Syndicate—
The morning glory when o’er vale and hill
The day shines on the toiler’s poor estate.
VIC.
L.M.D.


The
ť
THE
/T ENTI.^MEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
vt lik •. hell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of vear3, can testify to
tlieir merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO,YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
” RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
_ , /Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21e.
l ntcß Single Razor, in Ivorj r Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 303.
Registered and Sent Tost Free to any Part of the World.
JSi* - Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents : CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
Star Trombone Accordeon
ŧ
THE LATEST NOVELTY ! MARVELLOUS INVENTION I
No Mora Broket: Steps No Damage can be Done to the Stops.
This Patent Trombone Accordeon is fitted with the following
Improved ideas: —
1. The Stops are fitted to the keyboard, as shown in sketch,
and produce the different tones by simply turning them in the
direction of the arrows.
2. The 10-pipe llibbed Hard Metal Cover protects the valves
and reeds, and gives a greater strength of tone than any other
instrument in the market.
This Accordeon is fitted with extra strong douhle Bellows, with
Metal-bound Corners, and has extra special broad-hammered Steel
Bronze Reeds.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, as per sketch, £1 sa. Other
Accordeons, 7/6 to 63/- Send for Catalogue B.
For GRAMOPHONE see our advertisement on another page.
HEINDORFF BROS.,
210 QUEEN STREET.
BRISBANE.
[3
SAVED MY LIFE!
“ I don’t think I should have been on earth if I had not ob-
tained it. I know there are thousands of suffering men and
women who, if they only knew, or could be convinced of the
great value of Electricity as a Cure for their ailments, would,
indeed, be grateful. I am convinced now that ‘Electricity is
the Eife-Giving Power,’ for it has cured me of Bad Kidneys,
Chronic Constipation, and General Nervous Weakness, after all
other means had failed.”
SEND FOR FREE BOOK
There’s not a more
grateful man living
than Mr. R. Edwards
of 204 Stewart St.,
Bathurst, N. S. W.,
who wrote us in the
above strain. There
are, also, thousands
of others who have received the same great benefits.
Everyone who uses our Belt praises it. It is making
wonderful cures, daily of ailments that have abso-
lutely refused to yield to all other treatments. To
all who suffer from Weakness ; who are Nervous;
who are troubled with Liver, Kidneys, Stomach, or
Bladder; who have Indigestion, Rheumatism, Sci-
atica j Rupture, Lumbago, Varicocele; or those who
cannot sleep—through worry and other troubles,
it is a God-send.
t
dr. McLaughlin s
ELECTRIC BELT
is the Medical Wonder of the age. It is the only xyay to use Electricity.
When worn, a constant stream of Electricity is poured into the weak parts.
It refreshes the Nerves, expands the Vital Powers, enriches the Circulation,
and makes you feel Bright, Active, and Vigorous after a few applications.
Mr. PAUL ROBINSON, of Tighe’s Hill, Newcastle, N. S.W., says:
“I am pleased to let you know that I am now thoroughly clear of all my pains. lam
very thankful that I got the Belt from you, for it is a good deal better than paying
Doctors’ Bills. My wife tried it also, and she found that it did her a lot of good. She was
troubled with Diver Complaint, and one of her hands was swollen, but now she is com-
pletely cured, and the swelling has all gone, and the pains too.”
The relief given is genuine and widespread. We have wonder-
ful cures everywhere. From almost every town we can send
you names of people who have worn, or are wearing our Belt
with great results. Write us for the names of those cured in
your own district.
Mr. JAMBS COCKRAN, of Waihopo, North Cape, N.Z., writes:
“Dear Sirs,—l have given the Electric Belt thirty days’ trial, and have obtained the most
wonderful results from its use. The pains have left my back, and I feel better now than
I have been for the past twenty years.”
I Fop Free Advice. 11l addition, we will be pleased to show
Wtlll an( j explain to you the working of this wonderful appliance,
whereby so many wonderful cures are made. Hours : 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
THE DR. McLAUCHUN CO.
tOOW. Market St.,
SYDNEY.
N.Z. Office; 34 Willis Street, Wellington.
Wil'iam Charles Crawford
SEND US THIS COUPON , SIGNED , 'AND OBTAIN FREE BOOKS
Free Books.
On receipt of this COUPON, properly filled
in, we will send you, FREE and POSTAGE
PAID, our Illustrated Books and Pamphlets, describing our methods, and
giving every information about this Wonderful Remedy. Send at once !
NAME
ADDRESS.
WA TEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
manufacture, all sizes of
BAHD and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines & Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c., &c.
Sole Agent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
CARTRIDGES
ARE well known in Australasia. Their steady
advancement in popular favor is due to
their sure fire, uniform and accurate qual-
ties. U.M.C. stamped on a cartridge head is a
guarantee of uniformity. All dealers carry
U.M.C. cartridges because they sell well and
satisfy their customers.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
I
X
““H
§
ţ
fir min it
5
SORE
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT <■
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. •
[\i EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Eook:
‘•HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
i
There’s SECURITY in
ARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUCH the
Be
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price*
LIVER
Sure the, ere CARTER'S
OOISULT HERR RASSMUSSEN,
SPECIALIST
IN PRIVATE, NERVOUS, SKIN AND BLOOD DISEASES, &.C., &.C.,
Treatment toy Post a Speciality. Advice Free.
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Celebrated Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a guaranteed cure for Nervous Weakness, Varicocele, Loss of Vigor, Melancholia,
Despondency, Spots Before the Eyes, Loss of Memory, Spinal Weakness, Confused Brain,
Bashfulness and Lost Vitality" Makes Premature Weak Men Strong and Healthy
Boxes, 6'- and 12'-. Ordinary Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Doable Coarse, 43/6. Write for Circulars.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Cure all Contagious Blood Diseases, Skin Complaints, Gravel, Stricture, Affections of the
Bladder, Urinary Passage, and all Chronic Constitutional Blood and Skin Diseases, no mat-
ter how caused or of how long standing. They are Purely Vegetable, and contain no Mercuiy.
Boxes 61, Course 23/6. Write for circulars.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS cure Anaemia and Internal Female Complaints, Boxes 6/-
Course 23/6; Rheumatic Pills, 6/; Pile Powders, 6/; Fat-Reducing Powders, 6/; Liver Pills, l/ m
HEAD OFFICE: 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Also at his BRANCHES : 309 Queen St., Brisbane: IS Palteney St„ Adelaide; 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.;
Perth, W.A..481 H .y St. and 111 Hannaa St.. Kalgoorlie. hans peter Rasmussen.


NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLS’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
liilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
ROTHerhams
ENGLISH WATCHES.
oNO
&&& i z I
f%
/
N
fed
sold by all
WHO-CAN'SHOW* -
Jewellers.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
&
V
■4^s?
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Oailtion. Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BKOMOfll’i'U
DIAKiUHEA, *?■. i»im oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTKATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28 layo, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to ba
most generally useful, to tliB exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlouodvnb„ I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to tha
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
TfrrttnkennesS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Da. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appetite for food will
return., refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will
surprise and delight you.
ONK OF many:
Ravenslhurpe, T V.A.. 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, which has effected
a cure. I have no u'esire for drink , in fad have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
Fours gratefully. TI G.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FKhE.
AdiJress •
WM. LANGSTON, M.RC.S , Eng.
129 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
Free to men.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my cieriGluo
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for ths asking, and you will
bless the day y era wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magie ; and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition ones more. Posted free. Write
Hons Arh aiOi Gol'Rattd, 32 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURED
at home TO STAY CURED. Causes removed.
Health restored. Attacks never return. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever Patients in
Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, and
America. By Mail only. Not sold in stores. Write for
Book 320, FREE, postpaid. Dr. P. Harold Hayes’
Asthmatic Institute, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Q
NO CURE. NO PAY.
It will Cost you NOTHING to Try Our
IMPROVED and PATENTED ELECTRIC
BELTS for NERVOUS and other DISEASES.
Send for one AT ONCE, and PAY for it
within three months after you are SATIS-
FIED your CURE IS PERMANENT.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE GO,,
63H ELIZABETH-ST., SYDNEY.
“VIVO”
(Regd.) the Sure, Absolute
and Permanent Cure for
Rheumatism, Sprains, Back-
ache, Lumbago, Cramp, Pace-
ache, Stiffness, Neuralgia,
Bruises, Sciatica, Gout, Headache and all Muscular Pains,
Pleurisy, Coughs and Colds. Price, 3s. 6d. small bottle ;
58. 6d. large bottle. Posted to any address 4d. extra
THE SOLAR AGENCY,
rnf I f AAR StTREET. MELBOURNE.
nrawmi
THE GOLDEN ORINK CURE
] SATE |
SPEEDY
suu!
r Cleanees uio System in three weeko'
from the dreadful Curse of
Alcoholism*
. HO RESTRAINT. NO LOSS OP .
WORK. (|
NO EXPENSIVE INSTITUTS '
TREATMENT.
Oeecripfi/e Booklet, Poet Freuu t
I\, Q, IUtySOEN, Auburn, Melbourne,
a simple; home: remedy.
1
i m
mmmmm
:
JAMES JACKSON, Proprietor,
Late Western Australia and Queensland.
VIS/TORS
TO SYDNEY .
Empire Hotel
PITT & HUNTER STS,
THIS HOTEL is situated in the
highest and best position of
Sydney, close to the Botanical
Gardens, Government House, Cir-
cular Quay (the landing place of all
large Ocean Mail Steamers), near
principal Clubs, Theatres, and
within two minutes’ walk of G.P.O.
It is most elegantly furnished
throughout; Sanitary Arrangements
are of the very latest. Electricity
lighted throughout, and elevators
to every floor.
Smoking, Commercial Rooms,
anti Latiies' Drawing Rooms
and Library, &c.
TARIFF-
BACK ROOMS - -
from £2 2s Weekly.
FRONT ROOMS - -
from £3 3s Weekly.
FREE!
% a /
s
AN EXTRAORDINARY FREE OFFER.
In order to introduce onr Catalogue into every
home, we have decided to absolutely give away 1,000
of our famous Gold-filled and Silver Watches (Ladies’
and Gentlemen’s). Our business is Mail Orders. We
want your orders and desire you to send for our Cata-
logues and our liberal offer, which we will post to
y °Send postal-note for 4s. 6d. for one of our Lady
or Gent’s. Trial Order Parcels, containing 6 articles
of Jewellery, Brooches, Links, &c., and we send yon
with the parcel our above liberal offer.
Send at once, as this offer will be withdrawn when we have distributed sufficient
Watches to advertise onr goods. Address—
THE GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL CO., Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W
Perfume for the Handkerchief
DEW of VIOLETS
(R«8 4 ')
Latest
Creation
ť
To BE lIA U FROM A LI, LEADING CHEMISTS, DRAPERS, AND FANCY GOODS DEALERSb
Aertex
Cellular
Underwear,
Shirts,
Pyjamas, &c.
And
Ladies ’
Underwear
of every description.
Samples, Pamphlets and Price
Lists, post free, from
m
mmi
5S
a »
SfiamsEssßuK
3HEi»3££>:*£Jll
ydaefluiKi
oe
Bra
&TiLfx**'ntfit«
SgHESSS
ararflp*
»«»:qro:aEaa
-C. cji i-.,-...-- TV ~
HW
SS&3BEIMB
.
*5?
A^K
:•
DAVID BRAHAM & GO,,
SOLE AGENTS,
75 King-street, Sydney.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
K 3
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— S|| Capsule marked EHO’S 1 FRUIT SALT.’ Without It you hart •
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. 0. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, BNO„
by J. O. UNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
I’ll Try It .»
The Only Certain
Uoustache Producer.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.,
lasia or New Zealand, 1
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
&
2 he Remit.
CRAIG &.
House,
AITKEIV. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
654 GEORGE STREET, S/J
A NOVEL PRESENT.
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In lfict. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All tellers carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’*
Goolt Arcade, Melbourne, Vio.
Himself Cured.
tvEAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and
-L' Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MEN, DON’T WORRY
After you have tried all other remedies for NERVOUS-
NESS, DEBILITY, etc., as thousands have done before we
CURED them. Let us treat you, FREE of CHARGE,
for ONE MONTH, with our NEW CONCENTRATED
BOTANIC EXTRACTS, and the BENEFICIAL RESULTS
will surprise you.
Address: Botanic Institute, Victoria
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ŧ
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
I how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfo: table.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne
iV\H\\v
NO CURE. NO PAY.
It will Cost you NOTHING to Try Our
IMPROVED and PATENTED ELECTRIC
BELTS for NERVOUS and other DISEASES.
Send for one AT ONCE, and PAY for it
within three months after you are SATIS*
FIED your CURE is PERMANENT.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE GO.,
63H ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
33
EBaa
Rheumatism
t
DRAWTHE RHEUMATISM
out of your liodv by wearing a “Magic
Indian Lithic Ring,” a surprisingly
simple, yet effective, Remedy, which has
proved its worth all the world over. The
uric salts are absolutely drawn from the
system and deposited inside the Ring
without pain.
IN HEAVY ROLLED
5/-. 7/6, and 10/6, Post Free.
Should be worn by every Sufferer of
Neuralgia, Sciatica, Toothache, &c., on
like ordinary ring.
HICKSIAN & SON, Ltd.
BRIDGWATER,
GOLD,
Send Size,
Rheumatism,
the left hand,
England,
ţ
INSOLVENT ESTATE of
WEAPON, THOMAS * CC»,
GUNMAKERS,
Corer Of LITTLE COLLINS and ELIZABETH STREET i
MELBOURNE.
mHE TRUSTEES offer to the public to clear the wheia
of their Stock :
The Folding Collector’s Gun, 410 gauge—a splen-
did gun for orchards ; best steel locks and
barrels, reduced to £1 10 0
Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892 model, any
calibre, half or full magazine, octagon barrel.. £2 12 0
Winchester Pattern Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle, 1904 model, 22 short or long, reduced to £0 13 G
Remington Pattern S.S. Rifles, reduced to .. £0 10 G
10 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top
action, walnut stock, with cartridge machine,
cleaners, complete ; usual price £5 10s., re-
duced to .. .. .. £2 17 Q
0 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib bar and rebounding locks, left
barrel full choke, right modified, pistol grip,
cartridge machines and cleaners, complete;
usual price £lO, reduced to £5 0 0
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, walnut
stock, bar and rebounding locks, treble wedge
fast cross bolt, special No. 1 pistol grip, choke
bore, unequalled for quality, with cartridge
machines, cleaners, complete; usual price
£l5, reduced to £7 10 0
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, hammer-
less, steel barrels, complete with cartridge
machines and cleaners ; usual price £3 55.,
reduced to £1 12 0
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, Green, ss. 6d. ICO,
„ Smokeless, Bs. 100.
22 Short, Is. Id. 100 ; 10s. 1000.
„ 22 Long, Is. 3d. 100 ; 12s. 1000.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
Send for Catalogue, Post Free. All orders delivered
arriage paid to any State and New Zealand.


HENNESSY’S
Three Star
BRANDY.
Messrs. Hennessy guarantee all their Brandies to be GENUINE GRAPE, and distilled from Wine only.
2SL
■'j
Hi.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Olerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence. ,
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for- Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Melbourne Branch—
W. WOOLLEY and SON,
Equitable Building.
Queensland Branch—
H J. MDDAMS and 00.,
Brisbane.
Catalogues Free.
Of course you have System
in your office. BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
'it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
liau States.
Write for Catalogue.
TOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Solb Australian Agent.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
Has just been re-furnished and renovated throughout in the most up-to-date style, and
close attention to the comfort of its guests makes it an easy first in the public’s esteem.
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2.30; DINNER, 6.30 till 7.30
Special Feature-RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern Bystem of paying: for
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
SYDNEY
ROBERTS' HOTEL
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
1 tlephone No. 10kS
Blr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
•elected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOOR 3
of various sizes supplied.
A
ACETYLENE GAS
Button-hole & Pocket Lamps
Nickel plated, posted free,
To Burn 1 hour, 1/9 ; To Burn 2 hours,
2 6 ; To Burn 3 hours, 3/6.
Send for Catalogues on House Instal-
lations.
BRANDT BROS., Acetylene Gas Engi-
neers, 236 Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also
197 & 422 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
ť
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Clnb and two minutes from
entrance tO' Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, lOs. 6d. per day, or apartments maybe
Becured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards,
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applioa
4 * on t 0 The Manager.
HARDY’S
ŧ
700 Prizes,
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.
Smokers the World over choose
“CAPSTAN NAVY-CUT
which still bears testimony, after two hundred years of triumphant progress,
to the care and skilled work of the manufacturers! W„ D. & H. O. Wills*
Sold 8n 1, 2 and 4oz. Patent Alr-Tiarht Tins.
The Proper
Course—
\b°
*oo
lj
3
I
%
{'/'mu ii
WWW
0%
The GIANT
Course.
The proper course to pursue in buying a BUILDING PAPER is to get the best for your money. Eor 16 years
61 ANT and HERCULES PAPERS
have been the recognised standard in Building and Insulating Papers. They possess properties of atmospheric resistance
and durability not found in any other papers.
Wholesale Agents : E. RICH & COLtd., Sydney and Brisbane .


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 26.-No. 1300.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 1905 ~
PIUCE 6d.
A HINT FROM THE PACIFIC.
The Treasurer of Tonga has been deported by the British High Commissioner because of some eccentricity in the accounts.—News Item.
THE TONGA FINANCIER: “ALAS, MAROONED! MY UNHAPPY COUNTRY WAS NOT CIVILISED ENOUGH TO UNDERSTAND
A CASH-BASIS FINANCIAL REFORM. IN AUSTRALIA THEY ARE MEN OF BROADER MINDS."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
"Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverlev, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS ”
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... £1 g p
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A inateura in lllaelc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail' from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson <fe Co., 38 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal;
11. R. Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hons Kong. — Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY. JANUARY 12, 1905.
IN RECESS.
Safe from the “ vex’d Bermoothes ” the Federal
Parliament rests in recess, and such members as
have the inclination and the leisure may look back
in retrospect on the eventful history of a strange
session which was so much more productive of
incidents than of enactments. No discontent
should stand in the light of an impartial view,
for every party professes just now to be at least
moderately satisfied. Reid wallows in the trough
of office, and is frankly happy. Deakin muses on
the number of angels who can dance together on
the point of a pin—or indulges in some reverie as
suitable to the situation and to his peculiar turn of
mind —and is content. The Tories are inexplicaby
satisfied that they have Reid in power, putting into
practice with a care that Watson cannot cavil at
the principles and platform of the Labor party.
Watson is well enough pleased : he has not office,
but he was never eager for office, and the man in
power is willing to act very much as he would act
in his place. The ass, the old man, and his son,
by a curious combination, are all pleased, and are
pleasing everyone to at least some degree. It is a
strange end to a session rich in dramatic changes,
in strong hates and in bitter personal differences.
» * « *
Now, with a breathing spell, it is possible to stand
apart from the dust and clamor of the battle-field
and look quietly over the strategy of the poli-
tical campaign, of that never-ending warfare
between the forces of Progress and those of
Conservatism. What at a first glance seems
most clear is that the Australian Tory fears the
future rather than bemoans the past. He has made
a great fuss over what has been done already by
the Federal Parliament, but in his heart of hearts
is probably not really much concerned about any-
thing so far enacted. White Australia, the com-
promise tariff, the immigration law—all these
things that he grew purple with fury about, a year
or so ago, he is willing to recognise now as
accomplished facts —if only progress will stop
there. Seriously alarmed at the oncoming
of the Democratic forces, really dismayed when
the very citadel of Government lately fell into the
hands of the Labor party for a term, the Tory has
concluded that it is wisdom to compromise. So
far, he has not been seriously touched on any
vital point. Like other human beings, he
has sentiments, prepossessions, ideas, but, at
a pinch, only two vital principles—one is the right
trouser pocket, the other the left. Leave the
Tory in full possession of his monopolies in land
and labor, allow him to maintain the bondage of
his parchments, and the rest of polities does not
matter much. He is willing to make terms of
peace, the conditions of which shall be a mainten-
ance of the present state of things—the peaceable
enjoyment by the Radicals of what they have
won, provided they aspire no further.
* * # *
The records of the session just closed show
first a Deakin Government in power, acting
on moderately democratic principles, holding to
the advance already made, and prepared, some-
what timidly, to go further. Then a Watson
Government appeared, almost indistinguishable in
regard to policy, a little sharper and firmer in
administration, but in its immediate platform
suggesting no radical departure. Last stage of
all, a Reid Government, again not easily recog-
nisable from its predecessors as regards principles
followed, but bearing the taint of the deep dis-
trust which must follow Reid in any capacity.
It is possible that in recess the Reid Government
will develop points of difference, will justify the
remarkable services to it of the Tories, by seeking
to make its administration definitely reactionary.
But the probability of such a development is
diminishing. Reid seems quite content to uphold
the policy set down by Deakin and Watson ; and
his Tory followers seem to be fairly well satisfied
that he should do so. There is thus a tacit
offer of a truce from the Tories —a truce
founded on a pact to leave things as they are.
What has the Labor party to say on the point ?
« n • «
If the Labor party is content, this Federal
Parliament will shuffle out its life peacefully, and
even the next elections will lack a vital issue on
which the forces of Conservatism and Democracy
can divide. But there is no reason why the Labor
party should be content. It should rather accept
the offer by the Tory party of an armistice as
a signal to press forward and make the battle
keener. The “ moderate ” policy of the Labor
party during last session was justifiable. The
party had the chance of showing that it could
administer, sanely, honestly, and firmly ; and that
demonstration was worth a good deal to the cause
of Australian Radicalism. While making it, a
truce for a while in regard to some matters of
advanced legislation was proper enough. But,
obviously, the truce could not last. If the Labor
party hesitates for long to push on with essen-
tial progressive work it will have to be put
aside for some body with more courage and
more sincerity. The Labor party is not an end
but a means. For it to become so many strong
or to hold so many Cabinet seats means practically
nothing. All that matters is that the restrictions
which stupidity, dishonesty and greed have put
on Australian progress should be removed and
some definite movement made towards the solu-
tion of the problems with which is bound up the
very existence of Australia. For that this lonely
outpost of civilisation in the Asiatic seas has to be
garrisoned more effectively is a conclusion which
statesmanship might have come to decades ago,
and which not the most stupid can evade to-day.
• * • •
To garrison White Australia more effectively
—that is a one-plank platform embracing all that is
vitally pressing in Australian politics—the un-
locking of the rich lands now held by private
monopoly, so that the native-born and the immi-
grant of good character may have such agricultural
opportunity as Canada offers ; the setting-up of
manufactories where there are now importing
houses, so that other great avenues of employment
may be opened up, the drain on the country’s
resources to keep foreign factories going
ended, and the Commonwealth made self-
contained in case of war locking the seas
against commerce; the lessening of the vast
burden of debt which eats away at once the
material wealth and the moral fibre of the commun-
ity. To these matters the Labor party must give
an earnest and courageous attention or make way
for others who will. The present recess gives
opportunity for reasoned thought on the matter.
The Parliamentary members of the Federal Labor
Party can meet the representatives of the
Labor Leagues and can review calmly the
position, can give consideration to the question of
the benefits and evils whieh have followed
from a policy of what is called “modera-
tion,” can note the eagerness of the Tory now
to let things be for a while, and can
and should resolve on a programme for the
next session which will make the Tory wish for a
truce even more eagerly. What has been gained
is something. Compared with the slow steps of
reform before Federation it is a great deal. But,
after all, monopoly has not been even seriously
attacked. The inadequate tariff, the monopoly of
the land, the nightmare debt have yet to be faced.
The recess gives a good opportunity to consider
these matters. Not only are the Radicals of the
Parliament away from the lobby atmosphere of
concession and “management,” but they are in a
position to consult the views of their representa-
tive constituents. The result should be a vigorous
forward programme for next session.
POLITICIANS AND THEIR POEMS.
Often the first pang to disturb the serene self-
glory of the young man who has just got into
Parliament is, “About those poems I have
written ? ” The young politician commonly trains
himself in a debating society, and the debating-
society atmosphere—moist with adulation, warm
with conceit —encourages a fungoid growth of pre-
tentious poetry. When young Gab graduates into
politics, such early indiscretions become a source
of haunting fear. Juvenile poetry has often the
merit of a certain vapid sincerity, seldom any
other, and sincerity is not a quality which
the budding politician views with any enthusiasm.
Great, therefore, is the number of public men
haunted by their old doggerel. Now and again
one braves it out. Heney Pabkes (who mixed
with very bad some rather good matter)
never disowned or concealed his verses. Mel-
bourne Bard of Works Fitzgibbon continues to
publish with hardened complacency. Senator
Jawbone Netld leads with martial step some
other exceptions : but the generality blush to find
the little things they were once so proud of
brought to light. One promising young N.S.W.
member spent much time and some money after
he had got into Parliament in buying up and
burning an early verse publication. An M.L.C.
in the same State may be at any time reduced
to gibbering anger by a judicious quotation from
the stuff which he once watched through the press
with a proud heart. That hunted expression which
now and again is to be seen in Bruce Smith’s face
is said to be due to the fact that he also once wrote
poetry—light and frivolous madrigals and so forth.
* * * *
But the most conspicuous example of a poem-
haunted politician in Australia is Mr. G. H.Reid,
for his work was exceptionally bad, and he is now
exceptionally prominent. The work of suppress-
ing the Reid volume —a slim and humble little
affair containing just one ode—has been carried on
for some time with diligence and energy, until
now very few copies survive; only two are
known certainly to exist. A remarkable
thing about this ode, written nearly 25
years ago, when Mr. Reid was younger but not
exactly a youth, is that it gives no indication of
the future bent of the man’s mind. Nowadays
Mr. Reid is a humorist, taking a favorable view of
him ; a clown, taking the other view. A capacity
to tickle the mob to laughter is his strong point.
Sometimes he shows real wit; more often his
humor is of the type favored by the knock-
about comedians of the music halls. “Out
you go, out and get drunk ” exclaims Mr.
Reid to a hostile interrupter, and the flash of
“ humor” sets the meeting in a roar. But occa-
sionally the Reid wit is distinctly better than
that. “It takes a lot to get round me, he
told an audience during the Federal discussions,
boasting of his cuteness, and then took a, bandana
out of his pocket and attempted with it to sur-
round his great girth. “Yes, it takes a lot to get
round me.” And the audience roared, as was
due to a Prime Minister who could joke in this easy
and democratic way about his own stomach. A
freat step higher was a retort by Mr. Reid in the
’rotestant Hall some years ago. A ragged and
verminous apparition, palpably from the Domain,
was interrupting industriously. “ I have taken a
million pounds off the stomachs and backs of the
people,” cried Mr. Reid. “ Oh, that’s nothing,”
roared the ragged misery from the Domain. Then
Mr. Reid fixed him with fat finger and cold blue
eye. “Look at him!” he shrilled. “Look at
him ! and a million’s nothing to him ! ” But there s
not the least gleam of' humor in Mr. Reid’s
“poetry”; it is deadly serious. Let extracts
prove (the ode is to N.S.W. on the occasion of the
Exhibition in the Palace Gardens; it was origi-
nally printed in the Evening News, and was
republished in pamphlet form, the author signing
himself G. H. Reid, barrister-at-law and honorary
member of the Cobden Club):
On this, the most eventful of thy youthful days,
A varied concourse gathers in a brilliant haze,
And when, at hour of noon, Lord Loftos for the Queen
Appears, rejoicing's crown the animated scene ;
While stirring anthems and repeated cheers attest
That loyalty’s enthroned in each Australian breast.
The foreign envoys, our most welcome, honor’d guests,
Join in the local triumph with a pleasing zest;
And now all hail thee with each country’s flag unfurl’d
Benign Enchantress of an enterprising world ! ,
And thus another lesson to mankind is taught,
Of amity by such co-operation wrought;
For here the fiercest competition for the prize
The rival ardor to the general good allies.
This harmony of force was early understood,
By that first ’rnong modern princes— Albert the Good—
Bright harbinger of the restored primeval plan,
That seeks the freedom yet the brotherhood of man 1
What is most remarkable about the ode, from
which generous extracts have been given, is its
serious dulness, its absolute lack of a gleam of
humor. It is funny—very funny ; but the laugh
is always against the author. In 1879 Mr. G. H.
Reid was evidently a vain and ambitious Scotch-
man, with a great capacity for taking himself
seriously, and no capacity for understanding his
limitations. He is possibly still that, and the
“jolly” and fat fun-making is but a mask which
the politician puts off wearily at night. Reading
his ode of 1879, one can imagine Mr. Reid in 1905
bitterly musing on the stupidity of the mob which
insists on his playing the clown for their votes
and refuses to recognise in him the poet and the
thinker. If all our politicians’ poetry were col-
lected and examined, what light it might throw
on their true characters !
The star of England shed a more auspicious light
When Cook dispelled the darkness of thy ancient night,
And fraught with happy fates was the eventful hour
That saw thy virgin form embraced by Britain’s pow’r.
An opening which doesn’t give full promise of the
badness to come. But this is more promising
Thy sunny plains—so long the paradise of brutes,
Will now be bless’d with Cultivation’s choicest fruits ;
And where the horrid fires of Cannibals had glow’d
Perchance become of OnaiST-like love the calm abode.
Mr. Reid even then objected to the working
man, and deplores the fact that Labor flocked to
the goldfields.
The plough, the flock, the store, the ship, the home alike,
Are left deserted in this universal strike
’Gainst plodding industry and slow if sure returns,
For madd’ning avarice in Labor’s bosom burns.
But his views on public finance were then
different. The Reid of 1879 would not have been
responsible for the cash basis fake if this expressed
his real mind :—
Let all who seek to make a manly people great
By intermeddling bribes and solemn acts of State,
In thy unpamper’d youth and buoyant powers behold
That health of Commonwealths is neither bought nor sold.
These lines are worse than anything of Neild’s :
Alas 1 the space that shields them from all foreign harms
Hides from the outer world thy most attractive charms.
Indeed in Paris but a very short time back,
Some of thy daughters were disowned because not black.
And these are nearly as bad : —
This once resolved, the daring project grows apace,
For nation after nation soon applies for space.
The Mother Country heartily approves the deed—
Her Ministers our cordial invitations speed,
Her great industrial heart the Exhibition hails.
A Royal Commission’s formed —it’s head the Prince of
Wales.
Then France, then Austria, then Germany agrees
To measure peaceful strength at the Antipodes.
Holland, Belgium, and other Pow’rs vouchsafe their aid,
And e’en the Japanese their friendliness display’d.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
And Balaam said “I Have Sinned.”
And Balaam’s anger was kindled, and he smote the ass
with a staff. And the Lord opened the mouth of the ass,
and it said unto Balaam, “ What have I done unto thee
that thou hast smitten me ? ”
The conversation, it will be remembered, ended in
Balaam making the discovery that he was the
ass; whereupon he ‘ ‘ bowed down his head and
_ fell flat on his face.” Sydney Telegraph has
’ reached the point where it has discovered that the
ass whom it has beaten, not these three times, but
these three-and-thirty times, knew a great deal
more than it has known itself ; and the repentant
paper gets its face down into the dust with these
words (Jan. 4): —
All but four collieries of those that work Bore-hole seams
have been kept idle to-day, principally as the result of a
strike of wheelers throughout the district. Altogether
nearly 6000 men are idle. The associated proprietors
considered the matter of applying to the Arbitration
Court for an order that wheelers should return to work.
Except in isolated instances, wheelers are not members of
the Colliery Employees’ Federation, and they have no
trades union of their own. The desirability of compelling
them to belong to some organisation, which could exer-
cise some control over their movements, has been urged
for many years, but practically nothing has been done to
bring about that consummation.
“Consummation!” It is Balaam in the dust.
Ever since the Arbitration Act was talked of, the
Telegraph has been riding with the princes of
Moab. It was a wicked Act, and the wickedest
part of it was that which permitted an induce-
ment to be offered to men “ to belong to some
organisation.” This “preference to unionists” —
not a preference given by law, but merely
a preference which the law allowed a court
to give if the public interest seemed to call
for it —this “preference to unionists” was vile,
unworthy of the principles of British freedom, and
much else. Balaam therefore smote it many
times and hard. And now, down in the dust,
Balaam sees that if the law wants to exercise con-
trol over the movements of workmen, the law
must organise them. That is essential; if the law
wants to prevent strikes, if the law wants industrial
peace (which means prosperity), it must organise
them into unions. And, faced by the idleness
of 6000 men—idleness caused by the fact that a mere
handful are unorganised, and under no bond not to
strike— Balaam cries for compulsion. Indeed like
most new converts, Balaam is over enthusiastic
and cries for more than experience has proved to be
enough. The founders of the Arbitration Act
didn’t ask for compulsion; they merely asked
that, When a man joined a union, and bound him-
self down under heavy penalties not to strike and
throw the wheels of industry out of gear, he should
be given preference of employment over an equal
workman who would give no such bonds and who
insisted on his right to strike 'find smash things
whenever he pleased. It seemed such a little
thing to ask in return for a great boon, yet
Balaam cursed it as a tyrannous outrage. But
with the spedtacle of 6000 men “ out,” Balaam’s
eyes are operied. And all that remains to do
now is to congratulate both him and the hitherto
badly-treated ass.
The Bents of Politics.
It is no surprise that Thomas Bent roars seces-
sion. If he frankly accepted the Federal fact and
helped Federal development forward there would
be solid cause for wonder. The Bents of politics
are close students of their own interests. They
study them first, second, and every time. The
Federal idea is necessarily antagonistic to this
mind, to this disposition, to this bent. It extends
the horizon so far and offers such scope for national
energies, that the man with only himself in
his head feels a stranger and an outcast. It
is as proper for the Bent Family Political to
howl at Federation as for the dingo, with his kith
and kin of the hollow log, to howl when the
selector appears with his axe. It is hardly neces-
sary to ask the Bent family to state specifically
the points it roars against. It only provokes use-
less and ugly purplings on fat faces. When
Tommy was pressed to explain the other day, the
only result was that he got purple and out of
breath. He doesn’t, and never will, know the
real constitutional bearing of the Commonwealth
on the States. He thought the Commonwealth
robbed Victoria of £200,000 by the duplication of
departments. When it was shown how stupidly
wrong that accusation of felony was he couldn’t
see it. He just said so again. He also set out as
a specific cause of his howl that the Common-
wealth had knocked off the Victorian revenue
from kerosene, leaving that State something like
£IOO,OOO to the bad. But kerosene was free of
duty in Victoria when the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment undertook to frame a tariff. Bent should
give his roar always without reasons. It is a
remarkable roar. And the reasons are remarkable
too, but on other grounds ; and the two don’t fit.
It is unfortunately true that the Commonwealth
Governments have not yet flashed the light
of Commonwealth purposes on the States as
they should have done. Even they have been
sometimes afraid of the roar of the Bents. _ Yet
the one way to crush the Bent family politicial
and stifle its roar for ever, is to assert and sustain
Commonwealth rights and powers, extend them
into the States and across the States, as the letter
and spirit of the Constitution permit, and crush
out of existence as political influences the village
pump brand of patriot of the loud voice and self-
seeking ambition.
They Ask for Food and Lee Offers a Fad.
The coal-miners of Newcastle have appealed to
the Arbitration Court to stave off the inevitable
reduction in the selling price, and, therefore, also
the hewing rate; and the Court has decided that
it can’t. The matter really lies beyond the Court.
Mr. James Curley, for years past (and still)
miners’ sec., put the case in an affidavit a month
or two back :
The present depression in the coal trade is due mainly
to want of demand for coal, and the proposed reduction
in the selling and hewing rate is contrived to attract a
demand, and I further say that the low selling price and
hewing rate have been brought about mainly by cut-throat
competition in State and inter-State contracts, and by
severe competition in foreign markets under enhanced
freights.
Secretary Curley sees that the depression is
“due mainly to want of demand for coal,” and
yet he is a Freetrader, and sat as a Freetrader in
N.S.W. Assembly as long as he could. There
is no single branch of industry which creates so
great a demand for coal as the iron-industry;
even in the direct production of a ton of pig-iron
as much as two tons of coal may be required.
Yet, with every requisite for the production of
iron within N.S. Wales, the Freetrade policy has
kept the ports open to iron and iron goods, and
prevented the State’s coal being called for
in the smelting of iron ore. Even now, again,
Solemn Lee, of the Public Works Department, who
once was the State’s Freetrade leader, says there
is really no need for the State to help this industry
on to its feet—it is quite able to get there without
help. Then why doesn’t it ? For 50 years and
more it has been known that ores and fluxes
abound; over 50 years ago, indeed, the first iron-
bloom was produced. And for 50 years the Solemn
Lees have been saying that the industry would
come of its own accord, and it hasn’t come; and
after 50 years of waiting the miners of Newcastle
are starving because, as their Freetrade secretary
says, of “the want of demand for coal.” How
much longer are we expected to feed the people
on predictions that 50 years’ experience has
stamped as lies, instead of on the food that
we now provide for the foreign workman?
The Arbitration Court can do nothing effective,
because the Arbitration Court has no control over
foreign imports; it can neither check their quan-
tity, nor prescribe the conditions under which
they shall be produced. Only a policy of high
Protection can help. Arbitration is a fine and
civilised plan for the distribution of the proceeds
of an industry after you’ve got the industry ; but
as a means of creating an industry it is of little
more account than the ashes of Pharaoh.
The Free Hand in Politics.
From Maoriland comes word that the local Poli-
tical Labor Leagues are giving their candidates a
free hand on the liquor and fiscal questions. To
N.S. Wales Labor party belongs the doubtful
honor of originating this “free hand” business.
It commenced by “dropping the fiscal question,”
or giving candidates a “ free hand on the
tariff. ” The thing worked so well that the mem-
bers of the party have become expert “free-
handers” and “subject droppers.” At last
election, despite their platform, they claimed a
free hand on the drink question and gave pledges
to water or whisky as they pleased. Now
from Macquarie - street comes the sound of
other things, such as Local Government, being
dropped from the free hands of Labor members.
The Maoriland leagues start one worse than the
N.S. Wales body. In addition to the fiscal ques-
tion, which is the key to financial progress and
solvency, they push aside the vital liquor problem,
which is now practically the question in politics
over there. Why not a free hand on the land
question ? Why not a free hand on everything
except Bill’s dirt-money and such like matters ?
There is an inherent logical absurdity in this free
hand business. A political party aspiring to


Passed over, suddenly, on Sunday, aged 42,
“Johnny” Coleman, member for Rous in the
State Parliament. He was born, and lived all his
life, in the district he represented, and until
recently kept a store ip Lismore. A red-faced,
fat, and burly figure, he was one of the oyster
members of the House, seldom speaking except .to
ask a question ; and even when stumping Rous he
used to read his speeches. At -the last election h y
defeated Dick Meagher-on the- religious-swm-ter.i-
perance issue, despite the humorous circumstance
that “ Johnny ” loved his glass, while
the champion of liquor, was ar teetotaller.
homogeneity, professing to be organised as a
united body for the good of the country, cannot
consistently give its units a free hand on any of
the really vital political problems of the day.
♦
The Leaden Sword of the Law.
In the making and amending of laws in Australia
there is reasonable diligence. In the effective
enforcing of them there is often serious negligence.
This laxity is shown notably in regard to cases of.
assault and battery, food, drink and drug adultera-
tion, and tax swindling. The inadequacy of the
penalties for murderousassaultsmakes themareally
cheap form of amusement for the ruffianly-minded.
Private citizens can be smashed up at about 40s.
a head, policemen at about £5 a head. The
policeman has come to know this, and when a man
is in cells for kicking a constable he usually is
made to taste the bitters of unofficial revenge
before the law takes a hand. That the
police should knock a ruffian about in the
lock-up is one of the natural, if brutal,
results of the misguided leniency of magistrates.
Again, the fraud who sells bogus diamonds as real,
or utters a forged cheque, is certain of at least 12
months, but if he takes to trade and sells adul-
terated milk, grog or food, he risks but a very
small penalty. Yet his milk, grog or food may
have poisoned, sickened or maddened many infants
or adults. Further, if “ Burglar Bill” broke into
the Treasury with a jimmy he’d get seven or more
years. A sanctimonious person of the K.C.M.G.
class robs it with a fraudulent invoice or a false
declaration, and he is apologetically asked to pay
a mild fine. For crimes of violence, of food and
drink adulteration and of systematic fraud the
fine is a farcical punishment. Jug is what is
wanted—cold, cheerless, white-washed Jug.
Bush Fires, and Worse.
The country correspondent for the daily paper
can earn a line over nothing else so
easily as over a bush fire. The “tongues of
flame,” the “rolling fiery wave,” the “dense
volumes of smoke ’’—they are all so easy, and
so popular. It isn’t, therefore, surprising to
find that the reports of the recent outbreaks
were greatly exaggerated. From police station
after station comes the reply to the Govern-
ment’s offer of help that none is needed. As a
matter of unemotional fact, a couple of strong hot
winds on the ripening harvest would do as much
real damage to property as these fires; and
yet, for the purposes of the country corres-
pondent, the hot winds wouldn’t be worth
more than There isn’t anything picturesque
about a hot-wind ; wherefore the country corres-
pondent is lucky if he gets in three lines about it,.
even though it scorches half the young heads at one
season or beats out half the grain at another, while
the farmer is helpless through it all. The Bulletin
wouldn’t rob “the man on the land ” of one grain
of sympathy. What it wants to get for him is, in
fact, more real sympathy, and not a mere outburst
of hysterics when something has happened which
isn’t half as bad as other things that often
happen to him without moving the city
to undo a purse-string. It wants to get for
him, not a few well-advertised pounds by way of
“charity,” but the means to get a living in coun-
try where the far greater curses of drought and
scorching, blighting hot winds and sandstorms are
not regular visitors. Give the agriculturist those
conditions and he can put up with bush fires.
Here, in the very daily paper which gives seven
columns to the fires, is an insignificant item, side-
tracked with the other things that don’t matter,
telling that the harvest out on the Lower Darling
is “quite disheartening,” and, in spite of a much
better promise than usual, amounts to less than
four bushels to the acre. Of the eleven
counties in Riverina not one averaged one bushel
in 1903, five were under three bushels in 1902,
six under three bushels in 1900, and the whole 11
only averaged 2'2 bushels in 1899. For the whole
of the Western Plains the yield has only twice
reached five bushels since 1895, and once averaged
0.0 bushels. This is a disaster beside which the
burning of some grass in well-grassed country is of
little consequence. One can understand the
guffaw at the solicitors’ table at Broken Hill when
the message was read from the bench offering help
to sufferers from bush-fires. Out there drought
and hot winds make bush-fires impossible—there
is nothing to burn. They don’t sympathise with
the man whose grass is burned ; they envy him for
haying grass to burn. Yet the men whom the
lurid columns in the daily papers have moved to
compassion and sometimes even to charity are
usually foremost in resisting the stiff graduated
land tax, which would force open and keep open
the coastal lands to these desert dwellers. The
Bulletin appeals for genuine sympathy for “ the
man on the land”—enough sympathy to stop
him being driven out to the drought and the
distance, enough sympathy for him to ensure a
land-tax which will unlock to him the lands
whereon he could live and rear children in reason-
able comfort. Also, The Bulletin asks for “ the
man on the land ” enough sympathy to make a
local market for his goods. At present, he has to
depend largely upon a manufacturing population
16,000 miles away to consume his grain. If there
were a manufacturing population in Australia he
would save the cost of all that carriage and
handling. He would net for his wheat 3s. where
he now nets only 2s. 6d. The odd sixpence repre-
sents a piece of practical sympathy which the
Freetrade crowd denies him, while pretending to
be his friend. It is about time he sorted his
friends out. When he does that, he may even
conclude that that man isn’t his friend who will
give him £5 when he is burned out, hut at the
same time tell him to go back into the desert
where the droughts are, and also go on relying for
his markets upon manufacturing centres at the
other end of the earth.
Stoessel.
Concerning the man who kept the white man’s.
flag flying so long at Port Arthur
Outside of Russian military circles, little is known of
Stoessel. There is, to be sure, his brief record in the
War Office in St. Petersburg; but this is the merest
skeleton of his life’s history, and it is kept from the world
by insurmountable barriers. So the story of Stoessel,
unless he sees fit to tell it himself, will have to be picked
ud piecemeal from rumor and anecdote. In this regard,
Port Arthur’s defender is not unique. The Russian army
is practically a secret organisation, and the public is
seldom informed of the individual acts of Russian soldiers
or officers. Yet the Russian Government seldom forgets
its brave men, and deals out rewards, often with a lavish
hand.
StoeSsel was first mentioned in the Anglo-Saxon press
during the Boxer disturbances of 1900. On the campaign
for the relief of the legations, he served under General
Linievitch. Previously, he had held command of the
troops which went to the relief of Admiral Seymour’s
column. The writer remembers one rainy day during the
memorable march to Peking, when he was riding with
a Cossack of General Stoessel’s escort. A Cossack officer
accosted him, saying : “ General Stoessel’s compliments,
and his request that you ride at the rear of the infantry,
as your pony makes his horse nervous.” Of course, this
excuse was only to veneer the General’s command to make •
myself less conspicuous. Rather, however, than miss the
opening: of the, approaching fight, I turned my pony into
the cornfield which lined the road on either side, and rode
abreast of the staff until we went into action on the
plain before the walls of Peking. The Chinese were as
bees under the battlements, and their jingall bullets
swept the plain. Notwithstanding the terrific fire,
Stoessel rode into the exposed area, devoutly crossing
himself after the custom of the Greek Catholic Church,
and led his men to victory.
Except for his religious strain, Stoessel’s characteris-
tics are much the same as those of General Chaffee, of
the U.S. Army, who was in command of the American
contingent during the Peking campaign. Both are mili-
tary martinets, considering insubordination the very
worst of crimes. Each has iron nerve, strong will power,
believes his profession to be the highest under the sun,
and looks with scorn on civilians and their pursuits. As
a general thing neither was popular with the officers
under him ; yet Stoessel is liked by the enlisted men
whom he treats in a roughly paternal manner, demanding
from them complete obedience, and in return watching
after their interests in a way which always appeals to the
old soldier. Both these men are, in fact, well-ordered
military machines, full of patriotism; and both have
worked their way up from the bottom, without favor from
court or congress. Stoessel, however, had the advantage
of an education in a military academy', whereas Chaffee
entered the American army with but a few years in a
common school to his credit. But the rules and regu-
lations governing promotion in the Russian army are
much stricter than in the American establishment, and
the honors are even between these two officers, so far as
promotion goes.
One of Stoessel’s predominant characteristics is an
almost rabid hatred of alcoholic drinks. One morning,
entering the officers’ club at Port Arthur, he discovered
some youngsters who had been up all night, and he saw
what was the matter. Calling the guard, he ordered
them to be placed under arrest, and it was some time
before he decided not to court-martial them. At Port
Arthur, shortly before the declaration of war, an attempt
was made to assassinate him by a disaffected captain of
his command. The incident took place on the railway
platform, where the General stood waiting the arrival of
Viceroy Albxieff and staff. The captain stood within
twenty feet of the General, and fired at his breast with a
heavy revolver. The bullet missed ; Stoessel shrugged
his shoulders, and said quickly : “ Put that man under
arrest.” Apparently he gave no further thought to the
matter. The officer was subsequently tried by court-
martial, and sentenced to twenty years in Siberia. After-
wards the Czar commuted the sentence to two years’
close imprisonment. At that time Stoessel was not in
favor.
Had it not been for Stoessel, Hector Fuller, the first
newspaper man to run the blockade into Port Arthur,
would have been executed as a Japanese spy. A court-
martial had been convened, and Fuller’s chances were
small, when Stoessel went before the court, and finished
the proceedings with these words : “ I know this man ;
he is harmless.”
♦
In Training for Surplus-Faking.
Oily Joseph, Premier and Treasurer of N.S.W.,
posed the other day as a Reformer who had re-
formed something extra in the way of finance :
The increase in the revenue for the half-year is £105,000,
as compared with the corresponding period of the previous
year.
In regard to the expenditure, that for the last half-year
has been £235,000 less than for the corresponding period
of the previous year. Adding the two together, it makes
a betterment in the finances for the half-year under
review of not less than £340,000.
I feel naturally very pleased to find that the methods
of finance which I have introduced have had such marked
results in regard to the expenditure.
If I can only keep the expenditure down proportionately
in the next six months, as I have been able to do during
the last six months, and the revenue keeps up without
any increase, I shall close the financial year completely
vindicating the policy of reform embodied in my financial
statement.
I was cautious throughout my budget to under-estimate
the reforms which I then foreshadowed, and which I
actually brought into operation, and they will give far
greater results during the year than I expected.
So far Carruthers ; now for the truth. The
revenue has improved by £104,950. To that
extent the Treasury returns support the Treasurer.
But the same Treasury figures show that the
Railway Commissioners, over whom J oseph has
very little control, returned to the Treasury
£174,223 more than they did in the same period of
1903; so that the other departments over which
the Reformer has some control returned £69,273
less than they did before the great Reform hap-
pened. Oily Carruthers says that perhaps he
can’t take credit for the increase, “ unless increased
vigilance has been exhibited in the collection of
it.” Yet here is the hard fact, proved by the
Treasury figures, that, outside the Railways,
which are not run by Joseph, but by Commis-
sioners, the modest Joseph’s “increased vigil-
ance” resulted in just £69,273 less being collected
than in 1903, when Waddell was at the Treasury;
and we have Carruthers’ own unimpeachable
word that Waddell was too incompetent a Trea-
surer to be trusted there any longer. In the matter
of the expenditure Carruthers is more oily and
even less reliable. For the half-year, he says, the
expenditure was £235,000 less, and, adding that
to the increased revenue, the betterment was
£340,000. But the next hard fact is that, if
Carruthers’ own Treasury returns don’t lie, on
revenue account proper the expenditure was only
£79,088 less, which is a long way from Car-
ruthers’£23s,ooo. Certainly there are “other
payments,” and these were £155,568 less; and if
the Treasurer is tricky enough to add the
two together, he can get £235,000 or there-
abouts. But as these “other payments” in-
clude advances to cover loan works as well
as other things, a politically honest Treasurer
wouldn’t think of adding them together.
An honest Treasurer wouldn’t add them together
at all ; a Treasurer who was only moderately
honest, yet had some conscience, if he added these
“ other ” payments to the expenditure would also
add the corresponding “other” receipts to the
receipts. The “other” expenditure Joseph cer-
tainly reduced by £155,568; but the “other”
receipts were reduced by £128,149. If Joseph is
entitled to add £155,568 to his expenditure savings,
he must also, therefore, deduct £128,149 from his
revenue receipts. It works out, then, this way :
(1) An honest Treasurer would say his income was
£104,950 more and his expenditure £79,088 less; total
improvement, £184,038.
(2) A not very honest Treasurer, yet with some con-
science still left, might say that his receipts were £23,199
less, but that he had saved £234,656 in the expenditure ;
net improvement, £211,457.
(3) Joseph Carruthers, by the simple process of
scoring out the things that don’t suit, says he has saved
“ no less than £340,000.”
And that’s the difference between :
(1) An honest Treasurer.
(2) A moderately honest Treasurer.
(3) A Reform Treasurer.
—
Defunct Christianity.
Labor-Leader J. C. Watson, in his recent lecture
on Christian Socialism, dealt a deadly blow alike
at the hypocritical Christian and the money-ob-
sessed Tory ; and all the “ great dailies ” of Aus-
tralia are denouncing him as only the salt of the
earth are denounced. Every reformer the world
has ever known has had to face abuse as a crank.
Max Mueller quotes from a great Indian phi-
losopher (a subject of one of the German philolo-
gist’s monographs) that the reformer will ever
have opposed to him all the fools and all
the women of his country ; all the bigots
and all the rogues ; all the rich who wish
to keep what they have, and all the poor who-
think to become rich ; all the boys under 16, and
all the men over 60. These be mighty odds, and
yet the reformers dome, speak and conquer. Some
of the daily papdrs in chiding Mr. Watson are
frankly abusive or wilfully stupid. Others adopt
a pathetic tone, and with crocodile sorrow lament
“the impracticability” of the idea of Christian
Socialism. They belong to the Church of the
Defunct Christianity. They are very anxious to
be saved ; but when shown the way to salvation,
like the rich man in the parable, they turn away,
“because of their great possessions.” They are
Christians, in name, but at heart always business
men, and since true Christianity means “Chris-
tian ” Socialism, and Christian Socialism, threatens
rents and dividends, they join the Defunct
Christianity Church. The early Christians were
not Socialists in the scientific sense of the
term. They were Communists, altruists, indif-
ferent to earthly things. They did good to their
fellows, because doing good made for righteous-
ness ; but their aspirations were rather to heavenly
mansions and crowns of glory than to an ameliora-
tion of earthly conditions. Paul, however, with
his clever journalistic appreciation of the feasible
and the possible, arranged a mode of life for his
adherents which was distinctly the Socialism of
modern lines. Perhaps the term “ Pauline Social-
ism ” would fit Watson’s aspirations better. But
that, of course, is not the question. The point is
how long is the world going to play at being
Christian ? When alleged Christians say that the
precepts of Christianity are impracticable, they
deny the Leader they profess themselves to have
chosen.
■ *
Before Kruger, and Since.
This is what an Australian miner, recently re-
turned from S’ Africa, has to say concerning the
position of affairs in that unhappy country :
Before I first went to S’Afriea—about six years ago—l
used to damn old Kruger up hill and down dale. When
I got there, I found that every man, woman, and child
had a good word for him. He was always the poor man’s
friend, and never would hear of a reduction in wages. I
never heard a miner say a hard word about Kruger ; I
never heard a capitalist speak well of him. That is why
there was a war. Now the miners know the difference.
In Kruger’s time the lowest wage underground for a
white man was 16s. per shift. To-day the lowest pay
underground for whites is 8s. —just half—and living is
dearer. The miners did not want the war, but they
either had to take sides or to quit the country. A great
proportion of those who remained actually joined the
Boers, and those who did not, sympathised with them. If
the war was fought over again all the miners would be
against the invaders, for the men have been taken down.
When the war began the tale was that whoever fought on
the British side would have first claim to the good billets
going in the mines after it was over ; but when the mines
were re-opened the managers soon told the swaddies that
they wanted competent miners and not soldiers. Then
the Balfour Government repaid the soldiers by importing
Arabs to make the railways.
As for the Chinese, they are no good, either to the
mines or to the country. When the first batch arrived
they brought with them 600 tons of food —rice, salt fish,
and so on. The Kaffirs are much better men. They work
better and live better. When they “ hold it,” they live on
the best. Now everyone is discontented —Kaffirs, China-
men, Arabs, Boers, miners and artizans. There would
have been a general rising long ago had it been possible to
get arms into the country. But the ports are too care-
fully watched—once bit, twice shy. But there is bound
to be a row, soon or late. The country is full of
workless men ; the Government is doing little for them,
and they are getting desperate. S’Africa is only fit for
bosses and colored men nowadays. I was there before
the war, and have just returned, so-I ought to know.
Australia may be a bit “off,” but it is a king to S’Africa.
— ——
Melbourne sharebroker G. D. Meudell tells
the local Herald something about the immigra-
tions and land settlement methods of Canada,
whence he has just returned. Any man over 18
can get a homestead lease in the West on paying
an entry-fee of £2. Three years’ cultivation, with
six months’ residence annually, secures a title.
Last year over 50,000 declared settlers moved from
the States to Canada, the vast majority having
been tempted by high prices to sell their farms in
Dakota, Michigan, Minnesota, etc., and take up
cheaper and equally good blocks over the border.
(Meudell says a Michigan farmer often gets as
much as £lO an acre for his land, which doesn’t
seem abnormal when compared with Victorian
country, seeing that the land is within marketable
distance of such huge consuming communities as
Chicago and Detroit.) Of 128,364 declared
settlers who arrived in Canada last year 49,573
were Americans, 41,792 British, and37,o99belonged
to other nationalities speaking no less than 80
tongues. Of these new citizens, only 4788
Britishers went on the land, but 11,079 Americans
did so. The Australian Tory, who is perpetually
urging Governments to entice settlers of any sort
and color, will be interested to learn that Canada
gets so many settlers of such a good class as
Britishers and Yankees in spite of—and partly
because of —the fact that its Immigration Restric-
tion Act is thoroughly and honestly administered.
Last year (1903) Canada deported 800 unfit persons,
and the steamers that brought them were com-
pelled to take them back. Yet this gross viola-
tion of the shipping companies’ alleged right of
freedom of contract didn’t prevent them bringing
desirable immigrants in swarms. The Britisher
seems to go mostly into manufactures, Canada
being in process of building up its industries by a
stringent Protective tariff. And when Australia
makes its land as cheap for settlers by killing off
its big landlords, and provides manufacturing in-
dustries for mechanics, and slays the importer
dead, it may get a tide of immigration on as big a
scale.
♦
“C.C.”: N.S.W. Land Appeal Court seems in-
clined to encourage appeals against local Land
Boards. It is not counted sufficient that the local
Board arrives at a just decision. The decision
must be based upon the evidence only, which, in
a Land Board inquiry, often consists largely of
hard, persistent lying. Land boards are forced to
listen to more perjury at a sitting than a criminal
court would hear in a year. That being so, the
Boards, with their local knowledge and opportu-
nities for observing the witnesses and judging the
reliability of their evidence, are better able to
arrive at just conclusions than the Land Court
which merely reads the evidence. If they aren’t,
then the members of the Board are not
fit for their work, and shoiild be removed.
Further, by almost invariably returning appel-
lants’ deposits, the Land Court encourages men
to appeal against any decision; however hopeless
the appeal may be. Wouldn’t it be more business-
like if, when the decision of the court is unani
mous against the appellant, the deposit (£5) were
forfeited, and when unanimously in favor of the
appellant he received a fiver for costs ? It would
also make our Land Board business a great deal
cleaner if the law against perjury, which is at
present a dead letter, was revived. I can recall
dozens of cases where lessees’ dummies have stood
all day in the witness box committing perjury,
and everyone in court from the chairman of the
Board to the small boys standing on the form at
the back, knew it. Yet no effort at punishment is
made, and, on appeal, such evidence might be
accepted as good by the Land Appeal Court,
which has no knowledge of the local circumstances.
Fritz Cunliffe-Owen, in Munsky’s Magazine :
Yesterday Japan was ready to defer, in a measure, to
the counsels of the United States, Great Britain,, and the
other Western Powers. To-morrow, if victorious, with all
China at her back, and with the knowledge that she has
the sympathy and the good-will Of all Asia, she will he
more inclined to dictate than to defer. Nor'Would the
Occident, in that event, be in a position to resent her
attitude. The foreign nations which have the largest
interest in China —Great Britain, Germany, and France—
would be obliged to strain every nerve to retain
possession of their Asiatic dependencies. Russia’s defeat
by an Oriental Power would mean grave danger of a
native revolt against the white man’s rule in India, in
Cochin-China, in the Philippines, in the Dutch Indies, and
in Germany’s colonyof Kiaochau. Throughout the length
and breadth of Hindustan the native newspapers are now
extolling the successes obtained by the Japanese over the
Russians. Should the victory ultimately rest with Japan,
the prestige of the Western Powers—that prestige upon
which the entire system of their rule in Asia is based —
would be broken and disappear. It is prestige alone that
enables Great Britain, with a white army of about 60,000
men, to keep in subjection a fanatic population of
300,000,000 ; that permits France to control the 25,000,000
turbulent inhabitants of her Indo-Chinese possessions ;
that allows the United States, with about half that num-
ber of soldiers, to maintain order among the 8,000,000
Filipinos, who, during the centuries of Spanish rule, were
in a continued state of insurrection. Once that prestige
is gone, once the Asiatic is convinced that even a small
Oriental Power, such as Japan, can defeat so mighty a
Western Empire as Russia, and the Asiatic will feel that
a new era has dawned. He will believe that the
oppression of the white man is about to be destroyed at
last, and all the smouldering enmity with which the
native regards his foreign master will burst into flames.
: —♦
From an article by Herbert Samuel, M.P., (in the
Contemporary Review) on the Rand mines
The introduction of modern machinery would permit
the mines to be worked at large profit with white labor.
At present few devices to economise labor are in use.
Every tubful of rock, for example, is pushed from the .
working-place to the shaft by men. But the mine-owners
will not introduce labor-saving machinery, and they do
not want white men. Why? The answer is given in the
words of a director of the Goldfields Company: “If two
hundred thousand native workers were to’be replaced by
one hundred thousand whites, they would simply hold
the government of the country in the hollow of their hand,
and without any disparagement to the British laborer, I
prefer to see the more intellectual section of the com-
munity at the helm 1 ” In other words, this person hopes
that the stockholders of the mines will rule the country.
+
Tiie words of T. Cahill, 24 years a resident in
the Northern Territory (where they say white men
can’t live and work), manager of Buchanan’s
Victoria River cattle station, and„ part-owner of
Gordon Downs:—
A white man can do twice as much work as a black-
fellow, and as for standing the climate, the climate is
most healthy. I know men engaged in all classes of work
—men who knock themselves about by occasional sprees,
&c.—and yet they are as hardy and healthy as I am. The
malarial bogey is just a bogey, and nothing else, and
there is no portion of the Northern Territory where I
would not willingly live for the remainder of my days.
We chiefly employ white men on the cattle stations,
although there are a few aboriginal black boys, because
we find white labor the best. The black labor question is
only raised for one reason—because of cheapness. But a
white man’s work comes,cheaper in the long run, the only
question being whether such industries as cotton-growing
and sugar planting could afford to pay the wages a white
man naturally wants. The mining and pastoral indus-
tries can do so. They want white men and they get them,
and pay them decent wages, and you never hear a man
grumble about the climate. I believe the rate of mor-
tality among the whites of the Northern Territory is lower
than that in other places, and in any case I am quite sure
it ought to be. We lead free, open-air lives, in a splendid
atmosphere, and we grow all kinds of vegetables and
fruits, including the delicious paw-paw, the mango,
banana, &c. The whites do all the packing, fencing, .
mining, droving, prospecting, and other hard work, just
the same as they do in cold climates, and they are healthy
and hardy.
“ Kiwi ” (Maoriland) hurls this over the water :
Surely anti-imperialism is a matter upon which both
Freetraders and Protectionists could agree —that every
State should be free to adopt its own tariff policy. If
Britain prefers Freetrade, let her stick to it: it is
no more our business to interfere than it is Britain’s busi-
ness to dictate a fiscal policy to us. As for further con-
tributions to the Navy, the point is not really whether
we ought to do so as a matter of mere abstraction, but
whether we can afford either the money or the sacrifice of
the great principle of Parliamentary control over taxa-
tion ; and I say, without hesitation, that we tan afford
neither. Moreover it should be borne in mind that since
the present Tory gang came into power in England the
outlay on the Army and Navy has increased at an unpre-
cedented rate, and that the Liberal party is unanimous
in contending that much of the expenditure is unnecessary.
Let us in this matter disregard the pleas of our so-called
“ representative ” journalists, who appear to vie with one
another in a long-drawn-out grovel to the lying crowd of
high-toned tricksters who fooled us into participation in
one of the most disgraceful wars in history, and lured us'
into making the Transvaal a receptacle for the dregs and
diseases of China, A fairly good sample of this tendency
is furnished by the Christchurch Press, the official
organ of the horsey men and squatters of Canterbury.
The editor of this paper—Mr. Triggs— visited,
England lately, and was accorded an interview with-
Chamberlain, which formed the subject of a nauseating
article in his paper. Among other things we were assured
that “Mr. Chamberlain will force nothing on the -
colonies!” As if it were possible for Chamberlain, an
elderly private member of a Parliament 16,000 miles away,
to force anything on a self-governing people who are not
quite dead to every instinct of self-respect! TiuggS evi-
dently felt grateful for the assurance, but the implied
degradation never appears to have occurred to him.
*.
So enormous has been the advantage reaped by
the American worker under the M‘Kinley and
Dingley Protective tariffs, that the Yankee Tory
now realises the hopelessness of proclaiming his
Freetrade theories, and falls back on the novel
but futile cry that Protection benefits only the
workers, while the capitalist reaps no advantage.
A recent bulletin of the U.S.A. Labor Bureau
drives another nail in the coffin of Freetrade.
Contrasting present day wages in the Protected
States and in Freetrade Britain, this shows that
the Yankee bricklayer averages 55 Cents per hour
against the Britisher’s 21 cents; the plumber, 44
against 20; the carpenter, 35 against 20 ; the iron-
moulder and boilermaker, 28 to 30 against 17; the '
ordinary laborer, 1C against 10; and so on.
There are 7,000,000 depositors in savings banks,
each averaging £BO to his credit—a sum far in
advance of the record for any other country on
earth. Take another aspect : from 1876 to 1003,
America’s consumption of pig-iron grew from
2,200,000 tons to 18,580,000 tons, against Britain's
increase from 5,430,000 to 7,880,000 tons., .Silk
tells the same tale. In 1860, America imported
£6,582,000 and manufactured £1,321,000 worth.
' But in 1900 the figures were reversed, imports
being £5,360,000 and manufactures £21,451,000.
And in other trades it is the same; everywhere
Freetrade spells stagnation, and Protection
stands for progress,


£36 7s
a per annum
will, at AGE 35, purchase a
5 Per Cent. Gold Bond Policy
Whole Life Plan, for
£1000
upon which the MUTUAL LIFE OF NEW YORK guarantees to pay at death of the Insured
5 per cent, interest for 20 Years,
i.e., £5O per annum, and £lOOO at the end of 20 years; OR THE £lOOO BOND MAY BE
CASHED FOR JE1305.
Valuable Options available to the Insured if he survives 20 years.
For particulars apply to—
The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York.
Head Office for Australasia:
COMPANY'S BUILDING, MARTIN PLACE AND PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD RENNIE, General Manager,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “H.M.S. Pinafore."
Theatre Royal “ A Desperate Game."
Lyceum.. “ Pretty Peggy. ”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Phillip Park Wirth’s Circus.
Queen’s Hall Williamson’s Bio-Tableau.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “L’Aiglon.”
Her Majesty’s “Florodora.”
New Theatre Royal.. “Sinbad the Sailor.”
Bijou. “A Soldier and a Man.”
Opera House Hackenschmidt.
Princes Court “ Shooting- the Chute,” &c.
Die Musik, the boss musical journal in
Berlin, lately published a dyspeptically truthful
article, by little Ajalmar Josephi, the Melbourne
’cellist and violinist, dealing with local platform
“talent ” and its advertising methods :
There are many concerts, but they are mostly ballad
concerts, everything being called “ballad.” . . . All those
who can make a noise, and have enough money for it,
travel to Europe, and very likely to Marchesi. Should
there be no money, they soon get up a farewell benefit
concert, and, within six months of the departure of the
“talented scholar,” we note through the cables in the
daily papers that Mr. or Miss So-and-So, the brilliant
pupil of singing-teacher X., has made a deep impression
on the teachers of London, Berlin, or Paris. Other un-
lucky victims of the vocal art read the “ news,” and
naturally assume that, if So-and-So has achieved so colossal
a success in Europe, they can do even greater things.
The result is more farewell benefit and more cable reports
and so on ad infinitum.
In the course of a column or two of scornful com-
ment, Josephi draws invidious distinctions between
Melbourne’s musical professors, and, needless to
say, Jie has got himself considerably scowled at
for his trouble.
*# # *
“ Pinafore,” in satire one of the strongest,
in music one of the most tuneful, of a great series
of comic operas, had an auspicious beginning, on
revival, at Her Majesty’s, on Saturday, when
Miss Celia Ghiloni, perfect in enunciation and
effective in humor, gave the “Buttercup” song.
Not a point was lost, and the house was put in
fine humor from the start. Miss Ghiloni did
not maintain the same high standard through-
out, but was never conspicuously at fault,
and can claim the credit of giving the
revival an excellent start. Miss Alexia Bassian, a
mezzo-soprano new to Australia, who took the
part of Josephine, was not so happy. Her first
song was marred by a pitiable nervousness, and
for a while even in dialogue she was ill at ease.
Later, she justified the praise that has preceded
her, showing that she has a clear, flexible, strong
voice, somewhat lacking in sympathy, but occa-
sionally really brilliant. As a singer, in fact, she
is a good deal reminiscent of Madame Slapoffski.
Miss Bassian, also, acts brightly, and will be cor-
dially welcomed to the ranks of Australian light
opera singers—of late sadly depleted.
Almost as important as the music of
Pinafore is its humorous satire, in boldness not
surpassed by any of Gilbert’s efforts, for the folly
and the nepotism of British party government
is attacked with a freedom which is really a
little sava;e, though that fact is concealed by the
flatnor _of the genial fun-making. Sir Joseph
’orter is a type drawn almost straight from life—
the successful sycophant, the artful twaddler, the
miserable snob who illustrates the fact that
Humbug is often the secret of the Englishman’s
greatness. Mr. Howard Vernon, happily re-
covered from a serious illness, made Joseph Porter
a live character (he suggested a bigger Joseph
Oarruthers), and all the oily gammon and vanity
of the type was brought out. In the male cast
another very successful performer was Mr. Charles
Danby as Bill Bobstay. Mr. Danby is a humorist
by nature, and, with not very much to say or do,
was a source of frequent laughter. Mr. Frank
Wilson (Captain Corcoran) made a worthy
partner to Mr. Howard Vernon in the chief
satirical scenes; he acted, as he sang, with
good effect. Mr. Kenningham was not so
successful as Ralph Rackstraw; singing he
uses the falsetto voice too much ; acting, he some-
times shows a strained gaiety. Mr. Ernest Fitts
was fairly good as Dick Deadeye, and other minor
characters were satisfactorily filled. The chorus
is described on the programme as “magnificent,”
and the word is justified. Australia seems to be a
real aviary since opera co. after co. can be organ-
ised here with always the chorus as a strong
feature.
## * *
“Pretty Peggy” is much better for the
change in the weather, and the matinee-girl, who
wouldn’t risk her complexion in the dog-days, has
been making up for lost time. Next week will see
the end of the dressy melodrama, which will be
followed by “ Blind Man’s Buff.” Before the end
of the season Nellie Stewart is to appear in
“ Camille” in Sydney, what time Tittell Brune will
also m ike her first appearance in it in Melbourne.
What a Godsend it would have been to the
boarding-house tea-table if J.C.W. and ex-partner
Musgrove had set up their rival Camilles in
Sydney simultaneously !
** * *
The circus advfc., which never overshoots
the sacred mark of truth, nor brings the blush of
confusion to the face of the elephant, is beginning
to whisper that the wonders of the Wirtlis can’t
last for ever, and that the nights are coming when
Phillip Park will no more know Colquett, the
human kangaroo ; Wild Friday, who throws the
bowie knives all round the little lady’s body ;
McCloud, the lassoloist, and all the rest of them.
There is, on the whole, not a brighter
item at Sydney Tivoli just now than Fred Bluett’s
singing of “ Moochin’ Along.” It’s a comic song
which is actually comic. The Fernandez May
Trio, Olivette (the child with a wonderful
memory), and Marzella’s birds are other good
features of an interesting programme.
* « * *
( At Sydney Theatre Royal Bland Holt’s
‘‘ Desperate Game ” pursues the intricate tenor of
its way, and Bland himself will go on making bad
poetry in the very best of styles till further notice.
Even bad poetry (on the stage) becomes endurable
if it is manufactured in a humorous fashion.
* * * *
V an Biene, the actor-musician—he has had
a monopoly of the “star” part in the same piece
for 15 consecutive years or thereabouts —is now on
his way to Australia with his own co., and will
start a lightning Australasian tour at Melb.
Princess’s on Feb. 18. The plan of Van Biene’s
record sprint will not permit him to stay longer
than a fortnight in any city, it is stated. He is to
come and go like a Flying Dutchman, through
Australia, thence to Maoriland, and away to
A.merica, leaving a trail of astonishment behind
him. So says the volatile Pete Hughes, who will
direct the visitor’s mad career under Musgrove’s
management. Pete breathes an air of rushful
mystery when speaking of Van Biene. You don’t
quite know what is going to happen, but you feel
that its suddenness is assured. Van Biene one
week, and Van Been the next. Near to-day, here
to-morrow, and after that the Deluge.
* * * *
The audacious absurdity of our departed
fat friend, Carkeek, is only beginning to be under-
stood. As long as a wide stretch of water separated
him from Hackenschmidt, the glib-tongued Yank
called himself champion wrestler in three styles.
If, perchance, a dangerous expert in any one of
those styles tried to arrange a bona fide “go,”
Carkeek was only prepared to tackle him in either
of the other two styles. Hackenschmidt, the
moment he arrived, wired a challenge to Carkeek,
offering to bet £lOOO to £lOO that he would throw
him 10 times within an hour, or a level £lOO that
he would do it 20 times in an hour. The latter
contract, as Hackenschmidt modestly remarks,
should have been a fairly good thing for the
receiver of points. Yet Carkeek’s only reply was
a hasty departure from Australia.
* » «
“0.K.” : One of the toughest of human
fallacies is the belief which even critical theatre-
goers retain as to the “naturalness” of what are
undoubtedly the brightest and cleverest bits of
comedy acting. The harmoniousness of the
unnaturalism in stage work enables an actor to
seem true to real life when his most success-
ful effects are utterly false. Stage business,
even in a polished drawing-room scene, necessi-
tates an absurd display of movement by the
performers, but although this is made some-
what apparent by raw amateurs, the easy art of
practised actors conceals the truth. They break
the monotony of a duologue by exchanging seats,
which is never done in the domestic life of the
audience. Their “repose” of manner is more
restless than commonplace fidgets—yet the
audience accepts it as “ repose ” on its stage face-
value. The whole scheme of distortion is so sym-
metrical (in a clever performance) that one sees
nothing wrong. The term “natural” should
never be used to express the effect of work purely
dramatic in purpose. Charles Lamb’s essay on
Stage Illusion points out the reason why broad
comedy trifles with the truth :
To see a coward done to the life upon the stage would
produce anything but mirth. Yet we loved Jack Bannis-
ter’s cowards. How was this effected but by a perpetual
sub-insinuation to us, the spectators, that he was not halt
such a coward as we took him for? We saw all the
common symptoms of the malady upon him ; the quiver-
ing lip, the cowering knees, the teeth chattering ; and
could have sworn “the man was frightened.” But we
forgot all the while—or kept it almost a secret to
ourselves—that he never once lost his self-possession,
that he let out by a thousand droll looks and gestures—
meant to us, and not at all supposed to be visible to his
fellows in the scene—that his confidence in his own
resources had never once deserted him. Was this a
genuine picture of a coward, or not rather a likeness
which the artist palmed off upon us ? Spleen, irritability,
the pitiable infirmities of old men, which produce only
pain to behold in the realities, counterfeited upon a stage,
divert, not altogether from the comic appendages to them,
but in part from an inner conviction that they are being
acted before us. They please by being done under the
life, or beside it ; not to the life.
Probably there has been an all-round refinement of
histrionic methods since Charles Lamb’s time, but
only in proportion to the toning-down of social
manners and ways. Acting is as relatively false
to life as ever it was. We think we get convincing
mummery from a versatile comedian, although we
don’t get it, and don’t want it, any more than we
want real blood from a tragedian who pretends to
stab himself in two places, or a real death scene
from a tragedian.
* * $ &
“ Florodora, ” the comedy that ran for 15
weeks in Melbourne when its Tweedlepunch was
new, and its double sestet amounted to a reve-
lation, and Dolores had not yet made the
acquaintance of the local barrel organ —“ Floro-
dora,” the Philippine Island where the perfume
comes from and the girls grow wild and free—
“ Florodora ” is back again at Her Majesty’s for
the fourth or fifth time of asking. The old familiar
painted nose of George Lauri fills the place it
filled of yore. Two of Gilfain’s six clerks, also
one of the six girls who pair off with those pam-
pered menials, were with Lauri in the original
Melbourne cast. Otherwise the present “Floro-
dora ” performance has all the attractions and
disadvantages of novelty. Comparisons are drawn
between this co. and the other co., and such com-
parison is mostly kindest to the people whose
faults have been forgotten. For instance, one
remembers how neatly Grace Palotta picked up
her skirt and smiled over her shoulder, but
one forgets that a very foreign accent
made her Lady Holyrood an impossible sis-
ter (in the story) of an Irish military captain.
Miss Clifton plays Lady Holyrood this time—a
broad, half-polished, genial widow, whose affec-
tionate ogle bears out the statement that she never
thinks seriously of anything save a second hus-
band. The quaint and careworn H. Surrey makes
a tuneless Captain Donegal, and his partner in a
melancholy duet is Miss Scott, the Angela Gilfain
of the tale. Miss Scott romps brightly through
the part: her nasal accent is not so marked as it
was, and she sings “ The Woman Who Did ” with
nice expression. Fred Leslie, taking one considera-
tion with another, is a satisfactory successor to
Hugh Ward, as the old man. Haigh Jackson’s
treatment of the baritone lover part is rather mild,
though musical; but Miss Florence Young, as
Dolores, supplies dramatic force for the two of
them. The present assortment of minor girls, in
long dresses and short skirts, is probably the finest
the Williamson management has staged, and the
first act, which is the best, presents a dazzling
array of interesting visions. The second act
seemed weaker than it should have been on
Saturday. The double sestet were somewhat
too demonstrative in “ Tell me, pretty maiden,”
and a burlesque of the mirror scene in “ L’Aiglon ”
(by Lauri and Miss Young) fell flat at the finish.
All the same, it looks likely to grow more humor-
ous—unkindly humorous—if it is persevered with.
* * * *
“L’Aiglon ” continues to gather warm ap-
proval at the Princess’s. Why not prune the English
translation of certain irritating anachronisms and
weak items of dialogue? The old French grena-
dier at the Austrian Palace exclaims, “ By Jove ! ”
—in 1830. It was not even a common English
expression at the time. The man might as rea-
sonably refer to the late Buonaparte as a
“bosliter” general.
*■ m *
Last week’s comments on ‘ 1 Sin bad the
Sailor ” can be considered as holding good for the
present. Solid truth is one of the few things
which will remain fresh in January, and the tr uth
about Anderson’s panto, at the New Royal has
lost none of its previous relevancy. The show
moves as before ; the financial results are
monotonously gratifying. Hackenschmidt at the
Opera House is another solid fact that offers no
scope for argument. The appalling Russian is
meeting all comers and downing them one at a
time. If they would like to be downed with
greater violence, Hackenschmidt is doubtless
equal to the demand, but thusfar he has been
careful not to break anybody.
# *-
At the Bijou the Andersen co. is playing
“ The World Against Her ” for one weepful week.
It is a sad and weary drama dedicated to ladies at
large, on the supposition that a virtuous heroine
in distress is a subject after their own heart.
“ The World Against Her” is first cousin to poor
old “ East Lynne,” and Melbourne dimly remem-
bers the time when Alfred Dampier made a
modest fortune out of it at the Alexandra
Theatre. Nowadays, the grief and woe of the
wrongly-suspected matron are undertaken by
Miss Duggan, who gets basely pursued by
Willard, and is finally restored to the confidence
of her cheeild’s father in a becoming blue costume.
The drama indicates a second wedding of the
divorced pair after the curtain falls, and perhaps
the main attraction for ladies is the prospect of this
reunion. Every womanlikestothinkthatif she were
divorced by mistake her husband would find his
only consolation in marrying her again. Next
Saturday a revival of “A Soldier and a Man”
will transpire at the Bijou. Military yellow
has been off the bill for some time, and the heart
of Anderson’s public is expected to be stirred
more than usual by the roll of the victorious
British drum.
* * *•
The biograph at the Athenaeum Hall has
arrived at the “ last weeks’ ” period of its pro-
sperity, but Pain’s fireworks have actually de-
parted from the Exhibition grounds, and the
storming of Port Arthur no longer awakens the
local infant from its dreams of colic.
About “ Camille *
Miss Nellie Stewart and Miss Tittell Brune are both
making a study of “Camille,” and will act it simul-
taneously, in Sydney and Melbourne respectively. The
character has a peculiar fascination for most actresses
and the majority of playgoers, as it offers great scope
for emotional and subtle acting. The interest in it,
too, has been considerably heightened by the fact
that the story of the Parisian beauty is essen-
tially one of solid fact, and not fiction. Accord-
ing to the author of “An Englishman in Paris,”
the original of Camille was Alphonsine Plessis, who was a
central figure in the Parisian world of pleasure for a few
years preceding 1847, when she died. The novel, “ La
Dame aux Camelias,” which preceded the play of Dumas,
was suggested to him by the sensation the death of
Alphonsine caused among the Paris public, the female
part of which, almost without distinction, went to look at
her apartment to appraise her jewels, dresses, etc.
The woman was not a common courtesan. She
was sufficiently well educated not to be guilty
at any time of inelegancies of speech ; she was, indeed, an
engaging conversationalist, had a charming manner which
was highly magnetic, a natural tact, an instinctive re-
finement. The story of her being provided for by a foreign
nobleman because she was so like his deceased daughter,
was positive truth. After this provision was made, she
might have led a retired existence like many demi-mon-
daines have done—drought a country house and re-entered
“the paths of respectability,” but her nature revolted at
such self-exile.
It is related that when Alexandre Dumas read the
“ Dame aux Camelias” to his father, the latter wept like
a baby, but the tears did not drown his critical faculty.
“ At the beginning - of the third act,” he said afterwards,
“ I was wondering how Alexandre would get his Mar-
guerite back to town without lowering her in the estima-
tion of the spectators. Because if such a woman as he
depicted was to remain true to nature—to her nature —
arid consequently able to stand the test of psychological
analysis, she could not have borne more than two or
three months of such retirement. This does not mean
that she would have severed her connection with Armand
Duval (her serious lover), but he would have become ‘un
plat dans le menu ’ after a little while, nothing more.
The way Alexandre got out of the difficulty proves that
he is my son, every inch of him, and that, at the very
outset of his career, he is a better dramatist than
I am ever likely to be. But depend upon it, that
if, in real life and with such a woman, le pere
Duval had not interfered, la belle Marguerite would
nave taken the ‘ key of the street ’ on some pretext.
Still, my son has been true to nature ; but he has taken
an episode showing the woman at her best. He was not
bound to let the public know that the frequent recurrence
of love episodes, but always with a different partner, con-
stitutes a disease which is as well known to specialists as
the disease of drunkenness, and for which it is impossible
to find a cure. Messalina, Catherine 11. and thousands of
women have suffered from it. When they happen
to be born in such exalted stations as these two,
they buy men ; when they happen to be born in
a lowly station and are attractive, they sell themselves.
Nine times out of 10 the malady is hereditary, and I am
certain that if we could trace the genealogy of Alphon-
sine Plessis, we should find the taint either on the father’s
side or on the mother’s, probably on the former’s, but
more probably stfil'-pn both.”
It happens that (he genealogy of the original of Camille
has been traced by Count G. de Contades in a
French bibliographical periodical, Le Livee, and it
shows how true was the assumption of Dumas
pere. The maternal grandmother of Alphonsine
Plessis resided in the small parish of Longe, in
the canton of Brianze, about 30 miles from Alen?on.
Louis Descours, a kind of country clown, who had entered
the priesthood without the least vocation, became
enamored of her, and early in January, 1790, the cure
christened a male child as Marin Plessis —mother, Louis
Renee Plessis ; father, unknown. Marin Plessis grew into
a handsome fellow and married Marie Deshayes. She was
not, perhaps, strictly virtuous. The result of the union
of Marie Deshayes with Marin Plessis, the illegitimate son
of the country priest, was the child who was immortalised
as “ La Dame aux Camelias.”
* iff * *
Adelaide shows had to face a fiery finish to
the year, which made people rush off to sit with
their feet in the sea instead of going theatrewards.
But they got pretty level on a cool and damp New
Year holiday, which drove the crowd indoors. To
the Dam piers, playing “Never Too Late” at the
Royal, flocked what lessee Pollock declares to have
been absolutely the biggest gathering he has seen
inside it. The Eroni circus is not complaining
either, though it lost one night through a gale which
blew its tent over. There are some fine jumpers
there, including a 13.1 pony which clears an alleged
6ft. 4in. The season has been extended by Special
Request. At the Tivoli, Madam Yeamans-Titus,
of the baby smile, has moved on. “ Smiler ” Hales
is filling the Town Hall with lectures on the war.
The gamble of wheat-growing in the
Mallee. A year or two back the yield averaged
less than a bag to the acre. Now Letcher Bros.,
of Donald, have just harvested 59 acres of wheat,
which gave a total yield of 595 bags ! And an 80-
acre crop near Murtoa went 11$ hags to the acre.
Japan’s refusal to allow the British hospi-
tal ship Andromeda to succor the wounded and
dying garrison at Port Arthur on the grounds
that it might hit a rock or get hurt, looks mean
and just a hit spiteful. Furthermore, the poverty-
stricken Nippon who gladly accepts cash donations
for his own wounded, proudly declines assistance
in the way of drugs and medical comforts for the
sick and famishing Slav. Japan’s terror, sleeping
or waking, lies in the fact that someone might
watch her army and steal a hunk of its canned
last-century tactics.
The Wild Cat Column.
Half of the financial year is through, and there
has been improvement enough in some of the States to
threaten a revival of the word “surplus.” Bent, of
course, had a surplus last year, just as anybody else could
have a surplus who didn’t charge himself with all his
expenses. Now both N.S.W. and S. Australia have
hopes. There has certainly been improved revenue nearly
all round :
State Revenues for December.
Deo., 1903. Dec., 1904.
N. S. Wales .. £965,664 £981,800 Inc. £16,136
Victoria .. 583,603 662,285 Inc. 78,682
Queensland .. 591,599 330,220 Dec. 261,379
Westralia .. 319,744 336,812 Inc. 17,068
Tasmania .. 81,454 93,681 Inc. 12,227
The Queensland figures are thrown out of proportion
owing to the deferred payment of pastoral rents in
December, 1903 ; in 1904 they were paid in September and
October. South Australia does not appear in this list, as
it issues only quarterly returns ; but it figures tentatively
in the next comparison :
State Revenues for Half-Year.
July-Dec., ’O3. J uly-Dec., ’O4.
N.S. Wales .. £5,310,413 £5,415,363 Inc. £104,950
Victoria .. 3,238,828 3,530,812 Inc. 291,984
Queensland .. 1,818,180 1,766,850 Dec. 51,330
S. Australia .. 1,081,984 1,207,648 Inc. 125,664
Westralia .. 1,712,085 1,705,457 Dec. 6,628
Tasmania .. 459,775 448,324 Dec. 11,451
Total J-yr. £13,621,265 £14,074,454 Inc. £453,189
The S. Australian increase is, comparatively, the heaviest;
taxation yielded nearly £50,000 more, and the railway
traffic has also been greater, thanks to a record harvest in
point of size though not in point of value, and the activity
of the Broken Hill mines. But expenditure has been
mounting very rapidly in this State, whose borrowings in
proportion to size are now far heavier than those of any
other State. N.S. Wales’ improved showing is due almost
entirely to the increase in railway receipts. Treasurer
Oarruthers smugly referred lately to the results of his six
months’ administration. “ I shall close the year,” he
announced, “ completely vindicating the policy of reform
embodied in my financial statement.” And the fact is
that the net position is only £184,038 better than it was
this time last year, while the railway returns (over which
the Treasurer has practically no control) have im-
proved £174,223. In almost every large revenue line
except that of railways there has been a decline, and in
many cases very serious declines ; the situation is wholly
saved by the railways and water and sewerage depart-
ments —the very things with which the Treasurer and his
precious Reform have least to do. Queensland railway
returns are also improving substantially; but Common-
wealth (Customs) refunds and taxation generally continue
to decline. The Victorian revenue is remarkably buoyant
almost all round ; yet Bent is beginning to turn his roars
upon the Commonwealth, and to breathe threats of
secession. Certainly Federation, and the withdrawal of
men from State politics, has left Victoria with Bent ; and
that’s one argument against Federation so far as Victoria
is concerned. But the revenue figures don’t furnish any
argument to support that one.
Expenditure returns are, as usual, scanty: —
Expenditure for Half-Year.
July-Dee., 1903. July-Dee., 1904.
N.S. Wales .. £6,063 933 £5,984,845 Dec. £79,088
Queensland .. 1,840,563 1,796,543 Dec. 44,020
Westralia .. 1,747,126 1,768,067 Inc. 20,941
N.S.W. Premier Oarruthers was elected to make large
financial reforms, and this small saving of £79,000 (only
just over 1 per cent.) is all he has to definitely show tor it
in this direction. He claims other reductions, but they
are in regard to “other expenses”—mainly advances, in-
including advances for loan works, and can’t be reckoned
yet. The Labor Treasurer in Queensland, though he aid
not have the benefit of the special Civil Service salary-
reduction which was operating the previous year, shows,
proportionately, a much better saving. Westralia, with
a diminishing revenue, continues to pile up its expendi-
ture. Of course, movements like that, continual fer
enough, can only end in one thing-—smash ! For Victoria
the latest figures issued (Gazette, Dec. 3) were to Sept.
30th ; they show an expenditure for the three months of
£1,638,221, a decrease of £34,460 on the corresponding
quarter of 1903. The revenue for the same period was
£1,684,503, showing a surplus on the quarter of £46,282..
As far as the published figures carry ua, the
position for the past three years is as follows -
1902 1903 1904
Deficits Deficits Deficits
N.S. Wales (6 mos.) £706,296 £753,520 £569,482
Queensland (6 mos.) 57,742 22,383 29,683
Surplus
Westralia (6 mos.) 174,477 35,041 62,610
Surplus
Victoria (3 mos.) 42,441 46,282
As usual only two States supply details of loan
expenditure:—
Loan Expenditure for Half-year.
1903. 1904. Decrease.
N.S.W. (Works, &c.) ..£1,086,546 £677,022 £409,524
N.S.W. (Resumptions).. 331,388 304,345 27,043
Queensland .. .. 340,289 111,037 229,252
Treasurer Oarruthers is crowing cockily over this reduc-
tion. In sip months the total N.S.W. decrease was
£436,567. It would be more to the purpose if someone
dwelt on the fact that the loan expenditure was still
£981,367, or at the rate of £1,962,734 per annum. Carru-
thers told the country that his predecessor, Waddell, was
an unspeakably bad Treasurer, who, with his shockingly
extravagant colleagues, was rushing the country 7 to ruin.
Now he compares himself with these unspeakably bad


ţ
Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop.
64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. L<td.
STOCKS in Sydney and Melbourne
Steel Rails, Trucks, and all Tramway Accessories.
Robey
Portable & Fixed Steam Engines. Oil Engines, etc.
EAGLE BRAND of Explosives (Gelignite, etc.).
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 504 LITTLE COLLINS-ST. A. E. Leplastrier, Manager
HY. MARKWALDi
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle,
Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, Christchurch,
SOLE AGENT FOR
“ NO KOFF ” Liquorice.
“ DR. NEUBERG’S” 100% Precipitated Cream.
“STAGHORN BRAND” Australian, Size and Glue.
“SUN BRAND” Bombay Chutney.
“BLACK EAGLE’’Acetic Acid.
IN YOUR BUSINESS ]
THERE WILL BE NO
WINTER OF DISCONTENT
.
m
'«N0.10 YOST
Double Keyboard. Ink Pad.
"•NO. 5 DENSMORE
Single Keyboard. Ribbon.
"•NEW CENTURY
Double Keyboard. Ribbon.
YOUR CHOICE OF THREE jt CASH OR
FAMOUS MACHINES. jt TERMS.
Second-Hand Machines of AH Makes.
United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Street ... SYDNEY
92 Queen Street... MELBOURNE
9 Howard Street ... PERTH
people, and is quite pleased with himself. It is as though
» person turned up and described himself as the very
ne fi -lancing-master in the country, showed how he
could trip it, and then, taking his seat, proudly announced
that everybody must admit that he was at least a 20 per
cent, better dancer than the performing elephant which
was previously in the ring.
I he prices of some Australian bank stocks at
the close of recent years :
189 7. 1902. 1903. 1904.
City .. -. £3 12 0 £3 18 6 £4 10 £3 19 0
» HQY, •• 3 11 0 3 15 0 3 11 0
Com. ofSyd... 22 12 6 26 12 6 28 5 0 26 7 6
N.S. Wales .. 34 12 6 40 17 6 41 15 0 40 10 0
Colonial .. _ 100 1 10 0 150
» pref... 226 850 960 9 5 0
Com. of Aus... _ 4 0 6 3 3 9
„ pref... 3 15 0 400 600 520
National ..200 2 10 0 330 2 15 0
„ pref... 10 12 o 10 10 0 10 10 0 10 8 0
Royal (Melb.) 60 15 6 126 19 6
Victoria ..100 1 19 6 300 2 14 0
„ pref... 10 5 0 10 0 0 10 12 0 10 5 0
Q'N 2 6 2 0 2 4£ 6 6
Royal of Q. .. 2 17 0 2 19 0 2 15 6 340
N. Queensland 12 0 12 6 11 3 12 9
Adelaide ..500 650 6 12'0 690
There was a pretty considerable fall nearly all round last
year. Before the end of 1903 there had been g-ood rains,
a bumper harvest was assured, and nearly everybody was
talking the parrot-talk about “ returning prosperity after
the drought.” As usual, expectation was greater than
realisation. Many people expected the banks to show
greatly increased profits like the rest. As a matter of
fact, they had made large temporary profits out of
the drought; and so a return to normal conditions
did not make the anticipated difference. The 1903
figures ought, therefore, to be ruled out as abnormal.
And if that is done, present prices show up as
highly satisfactory. For comparison 1897 is taken, because
it was a fair average year, far enough away from the
h om-burst to be out of its immediate influence. Com-
paring, then, the 1897 and 1904 figures, the latter are
h gher in almost every case, and much higher in many.
Yet the daily papers-especially the Sydney Telegraph—
rev,ewing the year, say that the country’s politics are
ruining it. “ Too much Socialism, too many Labor diffi-
culties and uncertainties,” the D.T. cries ; “ enterprise
and capital are scared.” One way to test these whirling
words is to compare the prices which people (mostly
the people who curse recent legislation the most heartily)
were willing to pay for bank shares in 1897, when G. H.
Reid was Premier in N.S.W., and everything presumably
was well, with what they will pay for them now. The
answer is a severe reflection upon the whirling words and
the curses. It is a striking fact, by the way, that Queens-
land bank-shares practically refused to move till the old
political crowd was bundled out. This may have been
only a coincidence. But, then, these coincidences are
always happening—and in Maoriland they have gone on
happening for years.
Very often the investor, reflecting on the return
he will get on his money, doesn’t look beyond the divi-
dend. Obviously, however, that is not enough, since
some co.’s distribute right up to the hilt, while others
put aside large amounts for future service. In the fol-
lowing list the average closing price of Australian bank
stocks is followed by a calculation as to the return on
dividend actually paid, another showing what the return
would have been if the whole profit had been divided :
Dividend Return if
Market Return on whole Pro-
Price. Market fit were
Price. Divided.
City .. ..£3 19 0 £8 1 9 p.c. £9 3 0 p.c.
„ new .. 3 11 0 9 0 0,, 10 3 9 „
Com. of Sydney 26 7 6 4 15 0 „ 6 3 6 „
N.S. Wales .. 40 10 0 4 19 0 ~ 5 18 9 „
Colonial ..1 5 0 7 0 0,, 11 15 0 „
„ pref. ..9 5 0 5 6 0 „ 9 18 3 „
Com. of Aus. ..39
„ „ pref. 5 2 0 6 0 0 „ 7 10 0 „
National .. 2 15 0 6 7 6 „ 8 3 0 „
„ pref, .. 10 8 0 4 16 0 „ 6 3 6 „
Royal (Melb.) .. 19 6 6 3 0 „ 10 4 0 „
Victoria .. 2 14 0 6 9 6,, 7 13 9 „
„ pref. .. 10 5 0 4 17 6 „ 5 16 0 ~
Q. National ..6 6 —.—
Royal (Q’land).. 340 720 „ 830 „
N.Queensland.. 12 9 8 0 0 „ 14 3 0 ~
Adelaide ..6 9 0 4 19 3 ~ 7 5 6,,
These figures are based on last year’s profits.
The results are very striking in some cases.
Thus the public will give a price for Bank of New
South Wales or Commercial of Sydney shares which
would return only about 6 per cent, even if the whole
profit were divided ; while they will give for others only a
price which shows from 10 to over 14 per cent, on the
same basis. To some extent this remarkable variation is
due to the heavy liability which some shares carry. This
list shows how the banks stand in this respect ; the
figures showing liability per share :
City .. .. £l2 0 0 Nat. pref. .. nil
~ new.. .. 14 0 0 Royal(Melb-) .. 3 0 0
Com. of Syd. .. 12 10 0 Victoria .. .. 5 0 0
N.S.W 20 0 0 „ pref. .. nil
Colonial .. .. 2 10 0 Q.N. .. .. 2 0 0
~ pref. .. nil Royal (Q.) .. 2 10 0
Com. of Aus. .. nil N. Q’land .. 5 0 0
~ pref. .. nil Adelaide .. 6 0 0
National .. .. 3 0 0
The liability on the Commercial of Sydney and N.S. Wales
shares is a reserve liability only ; also to the extent of £5
on Bank of Adelaide shares, and £lO on City of Sydney
shares. The operation of the preference provisions
also affects the value of some shares. The Colonial
(Melb.) preference shares are preferential as to capital
until 14 half-yearly dividends of at least 7 per cent, per
annum have been paid ; there is a fixed 5 per cent, pre-
ference as to dividends. The Commercial of Australia
preference shares are preferential to the extent of 4 per
cent., of which 3 per cent, is cumulative. There are now
no arrears. The National and the Victoria preference
shares are preferential as to capital till 10 half-yearly
dividends of 7 per cent, per annum have been paid ; as to
dividends, there is a permanent 5 per cent, preference.
No 7 per cent, dividend has yet been paid by any of these
banks since reconstruction, so that the preference as to
capital is still alive,
The value of bank shares is also influenced by
the amount of undivided profits. In this matter those
Australian banks which are quoted on Australian ex-
changes compare :
Reserves Value of
in proportion Reserves
to Capital. per Share.
£ s. d.
City of Sydney.. .. .. I'2 p.c. .110
Com. of Sydney .. .. 107'5 ~ 13 8 11
N.S.W 69-4 „ 13 1 8
Colonial lin / 55
„ (pref.) .. ) 10 ” l 111 5
Royal (Melb.) 6'7 ~ 5 4
vl0 T“ :: } 9 ' 5 - { «
Royal (Queensland) .. .. 13'9 ~ 16 9
N. Queensland .. .. 18 „ 7 3
Adelaide.. .. .. 63’2 „ 2 10 7
The Commercial of Australia and the Q.N., though they
have some reserves, are not included in the list because
they have a debt yet to be paid out of future profits.
* * * *■
Apparently Australasian gold production fell
back a little last year. The receipts at the three mints
were
Melbourne. Sydney. Perth. Total
oz. oz. oz. oz.
1901 .. 1,033,548 864,634 860,373 2,758,555
1902 .. 1,107,256 675,832 1,354,632 3,137,720
1903 1 112,170 823,341 1,457,632 3,393,143
1904 .. 1,072,469 856,561 1,403,347 3,332,377
Since 1902 the Sydney returns are in oz. fine ; all others
are crude, which detracts from their value, as crude may
mean anything—s per cent, of impurities, or 50 per cent.
The total doesn’t show the whole Australasian production,
because a considerable amount of M.L. gold is sent direct
to America, while about 30 per cent, of the Westralian
output goes direct to Europe as bullion. The official
statement of the Westralian output (still in crude oz.) is
2,373,014 oz ; this compares with recent figures in this
way :
1896 .. 281,265 oz. 1901 .. 1,879,390 oz.
1897 .. 674,994 ~ 1902 .. 2,177,442 ~
1898 .. 1,050,184 „ 1903 .. 2,436,308 „
1899.. 1,643,877,, 1904,. 2,373,014,,
1900 .. 1,580,950 „
And in spite of this enormous accession of wealth, the
Government of the State isn’t paying its way.
* * * *
N.S. Wales’ gold output for some years past:—
1854 .. £773,209 1900 ..£1,070,920
1864 .. 1,304,926 1901 .. 737,164
1874 .. 1,041,614 1902 .. 684,970
1884 .. 396,059 1903 .. 1,080,029
1894 .. 1,156,717 1904 .. 1,146,109
The output for 1904 (269,8170 z. fine) has only been four
times exceeded in the past 30 years.
* * * *
The Perseverance (W. A.) Commission came to
no conclusion in particular regarding the share-juggle
which it had to inquire into ; and as to Bewick-Moreing,
if they were in the swindle, which isn’t proved, they don’t
seem to have made money out of it. It looks as though
the Commission was glad to quit the Perseverance Stink
as soon as possible, and get on to generalities. Mostly it
recommends the things that have been recommended 999
times before, and never wholly adopted—that assay
plans should be kept open to shareholders, who should
also be allowed an occasional look at their own property,
and that the Government should have power to send in a
man to sample a mine and ascertain if the management
was a thief and a swindler or not. The Commission
doesn’t mention gambling in mining stock, under the
“ cover” and forward systems,, though that has much to
do with the swindles. Absolutely the best prevention
is local ownership ; it’s always in connection with mines
owned at the other end of the world that the swindles are
worked. Bendigo, where the shares are mostly held by
men who depend on winning gold, and not on fleecing
flats, hasn’t one of them in TO years. As for a Govern-
ment officer being available to check the swindling of the
public, and especially the foreign public, that’s all very
well; but will the foreign public pay? The State isn’t
paying its way now, in spite of the fact that the foreign
public is drawing £2,000,000 a year from it in dividends ;
and if State expenditure is increased, then the insignificant
trifle which the foreign public pays will have to be in-
creased.
South Kalgurli (W.A.) is not the mine it was
cracked up to be if Bewick-Moreing’s re-sampling is any
criterion. Reserves are estimated at 102,000 tons of
10'50dwt. ore above 9 level, values ranging from 8 to
12dwt., the best being in the bottom levels. No ore has
been stoped since “ Boulder” Hamilton sampled the mine,
though lower levels have been opened up ; yet no values
such as Hamilton reported were come across. In Feb.
last Ralph Nichols reported the lode at 900 ft. as 19ft. wide
worth loz., but that has evaporated. Nichols stated that
the bore at 1500 ft. pierced Morty, or Perseverance, lode,
the core assaying 4oz. for 14ft. This will also probably
turn out much the same. Nichols, whose reports and
estimates have proved so unfortunate (for the public), has
now left Kalgoorlie for ’Murka. If he should visit London
there are three recent fiascos awaiting explanation. The
long-talked-of remodelled treatment plant may eventuate
at the S. Kalgurli some day, but costs will have to be very
low to leave any margin from 9dwt. ore.
* * ♦ «
Outlook for Boulder Perseverance (W. A.) can’t
be regarded as rosy when it is remembered that Ralph
Nichols based his hopeful predictions on the alleged rich
developments in the L.V. Oonsols on the south, and in
South Kalgurli on the north, and that these developments
were mostly myths. Reserves must be becoming small,
as nearly 70,000 of the 140,000 tons estimated as
in reserve on June 30 have been used up, and
no fresh finds have since been announced below
700 ft. Still, Bewick, Moreing and 00. probably gave a very
conservative estimate of reserves to be on the safe side,
and get credit of opening up mine ahead of mill. Tailings
are still being dumped down on Southern Boulder a mile
south, then refilled into trucks, and railed to Lakeside to
be c.vanided. There must be a nice waste of money in
all this handling.
•A * * *
Princess Royal Central (W.A.) main shaft is
down nearly 700 ft., and is progressing 40 to 50ft. a fort-
night. Manager Henderson reports the ground more
favorable for sinking, and carrying quartz veins. As it
was estimated that Princess Royal reef would be cut
between 600 and 800 ft., the end of January ’at latest
should see what’s what. Princess Royal is not maintain-
ing developments, and a fiasco is not improbable.
Great Boulder, Kalgoorlie, has cut plats at 800
and 1000 ft. in Hamilton shaft, and has started drilling
west at the lower level. Result of this boring should
shortly be known, and will be of great consequence to
Boulder No. 1 and Central and West Boulder. If the
Ivanhoe lodes are payable, there will probably be an
amalgamation of all the properties. Boulder’s develop-
ments in other parts are still proceeding very slowly.
The 1900 ft. level i s proving a long way better than the
diamond-drill bore led one to believe. Output from now
on will be rather larger.
* * * *
Red Hill, Lake Lefroy (W.A.), is turning out
about 6500 z., at a profit of £l2OO, monthly. Mine is
practically controlled by the Hampton Plains people, who
hold 48,000 of the 100,000 shares. Nine levels have been
opened up; four lowest are almost intact. Main
underlay shaft is being sunk so as to keep developments
well ahead ; but 250,000ga1. of water have to be pumped
daily ;so an electric pump has become necessary. Water
has been laid on from Wollubar, 10 miles distant, where
there is a fresh-water dam, having a capacity of 20 million
gallons, and this dam is practically full. This water-
supply will materially reduce costs, as the mine water is
densely salt and highly mineralised. This mine was
badly mismanaged for years, and ornamented with anti-
quated machinery. Present manager (Campion) has
scrapped much old iron, and licked the mine and equip-
ment into shape, and during current year co. will join
the div. -payers.
* * * *
Lake View Consols, Kalgoorlie, has had sensa-
tional movements lately on the strength of the alleged
locating of loz. ore at 1600 ft. The lode where crosscut was
24ft. wide worth 6dwt. This continued for 15ft. north,
where the face sampled loz., but did not continue. From
15 to 31ft. the average was only 7dwt. Under existing
conditions there is not much of a margin in this grade.
Mine’s costs have recently been 345., hr say BJdwt. fine
gold. At last meeting shareholders agreed to "spend up
to £5OOO a year in prospecting or testing new properties,
but payable gold mines take a lot of finding, even though
people are now satisfied with lOdivt. ore so long as the
lode is big. Chairman Govett is to visit the mine shortly,
and may arrange something definite.
* * ■*» *
North Boulder, Kalgoorlie, is being talked up
on the strength of alleged developments east and west.
Eastern ground has been tested by various co's., without
result, although recently Brown Hill Extended has made
some.loose statements as to the alleged payableness of a
lode in that direction. A yarn is now being circulated
that the North will get the Oroya chute ; but co. worked
out its portion of the Oroya lode years ago, and can’t eat
its pie and have it. North Boulder is thus a pretty hope-
less proposition.
* * * *
Murchison (W.A.) mining is on the up-grade,
and improved returns are being reported. The sensa-
tional Isoooz. from a J-ton at Meekatharra, 70 miles north-
east of Cue, has led to much prospecting. A State
battery is kept employed, and the field may prove per-
manent. But Peak Hill, 100 miles further on, can be
added to the list of Westralian defuncts. Ten years ago,
a speculator got all the leases on the Patch, and
re-sold them in London at a quarter of a million profit.
He got Gov. Jerry Smith to travel up there, and served
him with tiffin on plates hammered out of gold.
Jerry was immensely impressed, cabled off to his
pals on the Stock Exchange, and a lot of un-
loading was speedily effected. To-day, the sight of a
sovereign almost makes the local publican delirious:
Round Nannine and Tuckannarra some good shows are
being- worked, but the heart of the Murchison is un-
doubtedly Day Dawn, with that great mine, the Fingall.
Discovered by Ned Heffernan, the huge outcrop of dark-
blue quartz was pegged for a t’otherside syndicate (W. R.
Wilson, the Horn brothers, and others), and for long
proved a disappointment. Finally 8., M. and Co. got
control. The results speak for themselves. .
There wasn’t anything prodigious in the way of
Westralian knock-outs last year, but a few were bad
enough. Perseverance got to 28s. 6d. (£213,750) just after
the year opened, slumped to 10s. 3d. (£76,875), and closed
at a few pence above that. Associated (500,000 shares)
fluctuated between 695. and 345., which was a good deal
to come and go on. But, for a sweet gamble, there was
nothing to equal Victory United—boomed up to 4s. 2d.,
then flopped down to 3d. The manager who saw these
remarkable changes, and whose reports had a good deal,
to do with them, has now given mining best, and taken a
pub. Main Reefs, Princess Royals, VVaihis, and Cumber-
land also burned large holes in many pockets. Boulders,
Orovas, and Ivanhoes were, as usual, the steadiest things
in this market.
* * * »
Market value of principal Broken Hill mines,
end of 1903 and 1904 :
1903. 1904.
B.H. Proprietary .. £1,495,000 .. £2,112,000
Block 14 .. .. 40,000 .. 125,000
British .. .. 100,000 .. 243,000
Block 10 .. .. 136,250 .. 210,000
Junction .. .. 32,500 .. 87,500
Junction North .. 13,270 .. 73,000
North .. .. 45,800 .. 137,500
South .. .. 205,000 .. 440,500
Sulphide Corporation 385,000 .. 732,000
£2,452,820 £4,160,500
And this doesn’t show the full extent of the rise that
occurred during the year. At one time the B.H. North
was valued at over £l6s,ooo—nearly 400 per cent, on the
opening quotation ; and others were much higher than
shown above. Then, however, people began to ask what
it was all about, got out quietly, and left somebody else
with a very large baby to nurse. Metals are slightly
better than they were 12 months ago ; the average for the
year for lead was £ll 19s. Bd., against £ll Us. Bd. in 1903.
This warranted some rise, no doubt. But there was a
more powerful factor in the boom. A lot had been said
and written about the zinc industry, and people let them-
selves get the idea that there were hundreds of thousands
in it. Now, when the works have been actually started,
people are realising, what they were told in some places
all along, that all that is being produced is a poor concen-
trate, which will have to be shipped to the other end of
the world for treatment, and that the B.H. co.s’ profits
from zinc at present will be small indeed. Even now,
in spite of the shrinkage which has lately occurred, there
is little doubt that, taking the heavy risks into account,
the general level of prices is too high. It is not
too much to expect to get your money back in 10
years in a metal mining speculation (that is, a 10
per cent, dividend is not more than might be looked
for) ; yet in 17 years, during most of which time it had
the more valuable carbonate ores at its disposal, the
British has only paid £142,000 in dividends, and at that
rate it would take about 28 years to get the present
market value back. And others show up a good deal
worse than the British. Gn the other hand, the B.H.
Prop, shows up much better; paying now £240,000-a
year, it yields on the market price quoted just over 10
per cent. No doubt the smaller mines may, proportion-
ately, show a greater future improvement than the B.H.
Prop., and speculators are entitled to take that into
account; but if they do they must also remember that
the B.H. Prop, can carry on through a metal slump
which would leave most of the others high and dry.
Broken Hill mines and works had 9043 men on
their pay-sheets at the end of the year. Of these about
6700 were on the mine works, an increase of 1000 during
the year. Greatest number ever employed was in 1900,
during the lead boom, when the total of mine workmen
was about 7100. Of the present total of 9043, B.H. Prop,
employs 4704, and the Sulphide Corporation about 1450.
The South, which handles about 180,000 tons a year,
employs only 810 men. It gives one Australian work for
every 225 tons handled. The B.H. Prop, gives one
Australian work for every 130 tons which it handles. The
South’s ore is quite as valuable, only that co. exports
its crude concentrates, so that the foreigner gets
the work to do instead of the Australian ; also the
work of supplying the smelters goes to the foreign
coal-miner instead of to the Newcastle coal-miner, who
wants the job badly. Mine director Knox, M.H.R., lately
announced that there wasn’t any need to give State
assistance to the spelter industry—it could start without
it. Yet here we have co.’s actually finding it more pro-
fitable at present to export their crude lead stuff than
smelt it locally ; and lead-smelting is child’s play com-
pared with zinc-smelting or distilling.
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), after cabling £BOO
to the U.S. for a patent slimes plant and getting same to
Sydney, is now threatened with law for infringement of
patent.
Old Phoenix, Cobar, miles north, and possibly
on line of Great Cobar lode, resurrects as Ivanhoe, with a
big copper man at the helm. The Phoenix probed to
about the 200 ft. level; there the Ivanhoe takes charge of
a promising copper leader and goes hopefully in search of
its parent.
* * * r ♦ ..
Mulga King, a gold show 56 miles north-west of -
Cobar, moves smartly. Syndicate (100 shares at £10) has
already paid for a five-head mill and a tank (2000 yards).
Prospecting work includes main shaft to 200 ft., with north
and south drives on reef at 60ft., 100 ft., and 200 ft. levels ;
reef runs 9in., and goes about 2oz. Already 16 men are
at work, and if the reef isn’t too frivolous it will absorb
some more shortly.
* *” * * *
Cosmopolitan mine, Hillgrove (N.S.W.), for
past year, with 5-head, crushed 122 tons for 4060 z., worth
£1421. Reef is from 3to 5 inches, and every foot of sink-
ing has averaged ljdwt. per ton better.
Australian Mining and Gold Recovery Co.
(Hillgrove) has 30 men excavating site for a new roaster.
General manager Shallcross is back from England and
America.
* * * *
Ballarat (central division) only paid £21,600
divs. in 1904 ; still even that was better than the £19,450
of 1903. Even this trifle was spread over six co.’s, of
which Llanberris No. 1 led with £B4OO. Of every £1 worth
of gold, about Is. 9d. goes to the shareholder in divs.
There isn’t much room nowadays for the old rivalry
between Ballarat and Bendigo.
Woah Hoap No. 1, Ballarat East, has been
developed by a few local mining men, who have never
sought to make a market for the stock on transitory
developments. If cash was wanted they forked up with
a smile. This is so different from the waiting game
generally followed in Ballarat that everyone is wishing
them continued good luck now that the venture seems to
have turned the corner.
* * * *
The Australasian Insurance and Banking
Record, wrote on the 20th May, 1904, regarding the
Colonial Mutual Life office’s report for the year 1903 :
“ The statement of accounts as a whole indicates a'con-
tinuance of prudent administration of the affairs of the
Society. An income of nearly £440,000 and the possession
of funds approaching three millions, mark the Society as
one of leading importance.”*
* * * #
Ore without sulphides in which the gold values
are finally dessimated throughout the gangue, is one
amenable to cyanidation or chlorination. Should this ore
contain sulphides it could not be so simply treated. It is
now recognised to be good practice to first concentrate
out the sulphurets on Wilfiey Tables and to treat the
tailings thus cleaned by the proper lixiviation process.
Should the ore be a telluride that would require previous
roasting, the tendency to “bead” or “shot” in the
roasting is surmounted by passing the leached pulp over
Wilfiey tables, by which the values too coarse to be
dissolved by the lixiviation process are concentrated,
together with any unroasted ore, sulphides or foreign
matter. The Austral Otis Engineering Company, of
South Melbourne, are the Sole Agents and Manufacturers
of the Wilfiey Concentrator.*
* * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange) for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Economical Gold Mining.—Low grade ores
and high cost in fuel and wages have made it imperative
that managers and engineers should reconstruct upon
more economical lines. Heretofore the boiler plant was
given little consideration, but the introduction of the
Hornsby “upright” water tube boiler having demons-
trated great economy, and with safety under indifferent
conditions of feed water, it is now superseding other types.
In W.A. these boilers are worked with an economy not
heretofore known on those fields, and in Queensland over
2500 h.p. is on order for the Mount Morgan Gold Mining
Co. It is cleaned in one fourth the time of other boilers
and has no tube troubles. Boilers may be seen in opera-
tion in Sydney and Melbourne. R. Hornsby and Sons,
Ltd., Sussex-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* # * *
The Babcock Boiler seems to be favored by
mining engineers, over 50 mines in Australia using these
boilers. Mount Morgan has 20, Waihi Gold Mining Co.
24, Mount Lyell 12, Tasmanian Gold Mining Company 7,
and at Broken Hill there are 30 distributed amongst the
mines, water works, and electric Supply, while in
Western Australia they are looked upon as a necessity,
there being now 68 in the principal mines and Kalgoorlie
Water Supply. It will be noted that coal is expensive at
Broken Hill, and wood fuel is expensive at W.A. These
figures speak for themselves. Evidently the ease of
transportation, the economy in fuel and maintenance and
the adaptability to any class of fuel, that are such con-
spicuous points in the Babcock Boiler, are much
appreciated in Australian mines.*
• a « a
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S. W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
Assay Balance, Ainsworth’s No. 1 special, 5 inch
beam, agate knife edges and bearings etc., sensibility
’ l/200th = 0.005 milligramme = l/130Q0th grain. Price £5O.
Large stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. H. B. SILBERBERG and Co., 443
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * » *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker. Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim*
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*
• * * *
Robeys, of Lincoln, have decided to specialise
for the Commonwealth, and have appointed the Central
Mining and Tramway Appliances Coy., of Sydney and
Melbourne, their agents. One of Robeys engineers has
recently been travelling throughout the States, ascertain-
ing local requirements and prompting many improve-
ments, which it is confidently expected will lead to
increased demand, especially for Portable Engines which
are ahead of all others. Large stocks are kept at the
different depots, and all and every information may be
obtained from Mr. A. E. Leplastrier, the company’s
manager in Sydney.*
* * * *
To Prospectors And Others. —The Curtin-
Davis Proprietary Co. N.L. is prepared to purchase
approved mining properties. Particulars to, R. E.
•Twecldell, Legal Manager, 31 Queen-street, Melbourne.*
* » * •
Pitt, son-in-law of former manager Body, is to
get the management of the Duke United, Maryborough
(Vic.), in succession to Pinder. Latter leaves for London,
and there is not going to be any more £l2OO-a-year
English managing director. Pinder had not had
the hard training that builds up bull - dog alluvial
miners such as his predecessor, old Sam Body.
Mine does not look too well, as the rich tributary patch is
getting exhausted, and the main gutter is still making
east on the high reef. Pitt ought to drive straight for
the deep bores ahead, and abandon dodging about to the
east.
(Continued on page 80).


HOLIDAY
“ORIENT”
READY TO WEAR
Crash Suits
(2 PIECE SUITS)
POST FREE to any P.O.
in the State.
SPECIAL
VALUE -
-6
WELL CUT
and SHRUNK
18
(Seorge ao<l Barrack Streets, Sydocy-
PROFESSIONAL,
AMA j EUR;
TOURIST and every
Class or Kind of
Photographers
Should Know About
EMPIRE
PAPER.
Prints are made SIMPLER, QUICKER and BETTER with ARTLYTE than is possible with
any other Printing Paper.
INDEPENDENT OF THE
SUN OR DAYLIGHT.
No Park Room Required.
In full view of your friends in the Sitting Room or elsewhere printing
on ARTLYTE is a delight and fascination unequalled.
SOLD IN PACKETS—aII Regular and Popular Sizes, also IN LARGE SHEETS at Popular Prices.
Stocked by Ail Leading Dealers.
HA RRINGTON an ti?’
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 KING ST., SYDNEY;
93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
Society
“F.”: Whenever there’s a question with
woman in it under discussion, the sentimentalists
rage furiously : a certain large proportion of every
community consists of old gentlemen past 60, who
are, as a rule, no more capable of a reasonable
opinion in regard to-the ladies, God bless them,
than a school girl of 16 is in regard to a beauty
actor. Elderly Sydney is just now waving its
umbrella in indignation at Sydney Hospital Board
for refusing to accept a young lady doctor as a
member of the resident staff. But apart from all
the cant about the equality of the sexes, the age
of Chivalry and Freedom, and so on, if, as is
alleged, the appointment of a woman doctor
would increase the expenses without increasing
the efficiency of the hospital, why make a fuss ?
If a merchant with 10 men clerks bars women
from competing for an 11th place, because to have
two sexes working in his counting-house would in-
volve him in expense, there is no need to talk of
tyranny. And that is alleged to about represent
the position at Sydney Hospital,
WHAT'S IN A NAME?
HORRIFIED FEMALE : “ What did you say was the name of this boat! ”
BOATMAN : “ The Clara, mum.”
H.F. : “ Then turn her head away immediately.”
At an Exhibition of Art and Industries,
the other day, at New Plymouth (M.L.), the
awards made were (according to the local press) :
Best picture of any kind.—No. 134, “A Breezy Day
Near Plymouth,” by W. J. Gibbons, 1869 ; lent by Mr.
Railings ; gold medal.
No. 134, uSunset,” by Gainsborough; lent by Mr.
Alexander ; silver medal and second diploma.
Best oil painting.—No. 188, “ Marriage of St. Catherine,”
by Rubens ; lent by Miss Carrington ; third diploma.
Thus at New Plymouth (M.L.) Rubens finds his
level.
The revulsion of feeling in Jingo Cape-
town against the war on the little Boer Republics
was displayed when the body of Oom Paul was
carried ashore for burial. A sympathetic crowd
of ten thousand bowed low with bared heads, and
many who had shrieked loudest against the patriot
President sobbed by the side of those who had fol-
lowed his flag. The procession from the Docks to
the Huguenot Memorial building was truly repre-
sentative of S’Africa. On the coffin of Oom Paul
was one wreath inscribed : “To Paul Kruger—
the friend of the white workers.” It was sub-
scribed for by wronged and workless Britishers in
shillings, sixpences, pennies and ha’pence.
* * * *
Milner’s famous pledge, “I stake my
reputation that, for every 10,000 Chinamen intro-
duced into South Africa, there will be in three
years time 10,000 more whites in the country,” is
being falsified with the utmost possible despatch.
Already the Glen Deep Mine at Germiston and
many more are worked entirely by Chinese, and
in November last Lyttleton gleefully reported to
England that the Oriental is showing “endless
versatility and adaptability.” But perhaps Milner
meant half whites— the offspring of degenerate
white women matched with Chows.
* * * *
Several recent cases of typhoid in Sydney
have been traced to eating Middle Harbor oysters.
Middle Harbor is a lovely arm of Port Jackson,
rivalling the Rhine in the rugged beauty of its
landscapes. And the Water and Sewerage Board
has made it little better than a cesspool by casting
into its"waters all the sewerage of North Sydney.
This sewerage is supposed to first receive septic
tank treatment; if it did-the residue would be
harmless. But it doesn’t. School-boys nowadays
know that the essential of the new bacteriological
treatment of sewerage is the provision of tanks
closed against light, and, as far as possible,
against air. The North Shore system has no such
tanks. The sewerage runs into pits open to air
and light, and from them to the harbor. Some-
times as a variant it is run straight into the harbor.
The first result is filth unspeakable in a spot the
beauty of which would make a Caliban think qf
Heaven; a secondary result, typhoidal shellfish,
which ravage the city with disease. If public
sentiment could only step back on the path of
civilisation to the stage which the Sewerage
Board’s idea of a “septic tank” fits, there would
be an enthusiastic drowning of those responsible,
in the water which they have defiled. As it is, a
civilised and anaemic resentment makes a feeble
display by writing letters to the papers.
» * * *
There’s quite a visitation of fortune-tellers
claiming that they are heirs to large Melbourne
estates. One lot, a large family of brothers and
sisters, is going to claim the estate of their grand-
father, one “ Isaac Lincoln, ” who is supposed to
have left £5,000,000 worth of property in the heart
of Melbourne city. Another claimant is more
modest. He only wants one-fifth of an alleged
Melbourne estate of £1,600,000, as “nephew to a
Charles Johnson Dalander, who died at _ Mel-
bourne after amassing a great fortune in railroad
contracting and merchandise business.”
Melbourne’s Alexandra-avenue, opened
with a mighty flourish of trumpets by the little
Yorks, some moons back, is looking very sick and
sad, the flower-beds all weed-covered, and
parched for water, with an air of dusty blight over
everything. After all the gush about “ the future
Champs Elysees of the South,” and about making
the entrance to the city a regular fairyland, and
after going to a large expense at laying out the
rockery, it seems just natural for Bent to jib at
the expense of supplying water to keep the dreary
vegetables alive.
PUZZLE-HEADED.
MRS. JINKS : “ I hear you have had it very dry up your way.”
COUNTRY COUSIN : “ Yes, rather! We’ve ’ad to wash in the drinkin’ water.”
MRS. J. : “Do you filter it!”
C.C. : “ Oh, yes — AFTER.”
Adelaide can strain at a gnat and swallow
a camel with any place. It used to have a lunatic
asylum in the centre of the city, on North Ter-
race. But it couldn’t stand lunatics in so close;
so it closed the asylum, and uses the building as a
consumptives’ hospice.
• * * *
A little while ago the S. M. Herald,
simultaneously with the cable-liar’s announce-
ment that the Russians were mobilising
on the frontier of Cochin China, or dig-
ging a pass through the Himalayas, or
something, published a sensational story
that the English naval squadron in these
waters was in frantic excitement, funnels
pouring out smoke, all hands working
night and day, responsible officers mur-
muring in corners, and Mr. James fear-
ing the worst. Next morning the Tele-
graph sarcastically inquired why a collier
arriving at daybreak could not coal a
warship before breakfast without the
few wits that some people had leaving
them in one instant. But revenge has
come. Just before Christmas the King-
street journal burst out with a “ scoop.”
Two popgun battleships had hurriedly
left Port Jackson under sealed orders.
No one knew what was in the sealed
orders but the Admiral and the Tele-
graph man. The Telegraph man told
his 2,500,000 readers in strict confidence
that Tonga was the objective. Tonga
was in rebellion. Tonga was to be an-
nexed. Special articles on Tonga’s
history, trade and back hair, and inter-
views with people whose aunts had been
to Tonga, followed. The Herald editor,
on opening the rival sheet, gasped.
The Herald had coldly remarked that
the ships had cleared for Hobart, where
the summer girls are. And they did
turn up at Hobart on Boxing Day. No sealed
orders, no rebellion, no annexation.
* * * *
The burning of Trinity Church, a big stone
edifice in East Melbourne, on New Year’s Sunday,
was one of the strangest of happenings. It was
'Pastor White’s first Sunday there. The germ of
the fire was probably in a Watch Night service
on Saturday ; and yet the Sunday morning service
was held as usual. Some housewives thought they
detected a smell of burning—at least they say so
now. The church was shut at 12.30. At about
one o’clock Pastor White chased one of his errant
fowls all around it. Shortly after 3 o’clock the
smoke and flames burst out. Only the four walls
were left. It was originally intended to have the
cathedral on this site; and Trinity was built in
advance for a Chapter House. Dr. Moorhouse
overturned the scheme. The saying goes that in
boom time the preposterous sum of £BOO,OOO was
offered for the Swanston-street cathedral site.
A man accused of having sold beer to a
plain-clothes policeman in a M.L. prohibition dis-
trict, explained that he thought he was supplying
the Law with “ herbal beer.’’ He kept the “real
stuff ” for his own use in a bottle among the soft
drinks, and “ I must have mixed ’em up, yer
wash’p.” The S.M. grimly remarked it was bad
to mix drinks, and fined him £2O.
* * * *
From the advt. of a Maoriland agricultural
society:
Cattle are requested to leave the grounds at the gate
nearest the water tower.
They seem to be intelligent oxen in M.L., since
they are expected to read the papers.
* * * *
“T.F.M.” : lie the human bones which
were unearthed at the St. Kilda (Vic.) Bluff
recently (B. 29/12/’O4). It is just 65 years ago
since the immigrant ship Glen Huntly arrived m
Hobson’s Bay from Lochaber, with about half her
human cargo stricken with typhoid fever. The
flustered authorities hastily erected tents on St.
Kilda Bluff, and ordered the whole ship’s comple-
ment into quarantine, where four of the number
died and were buried ; and it was their scanty
remains, doubtless, which Bent’s nav viesunearthed.
The Bluff, which is now being levelled (the work
is expected to add greatly to the value of some
unsold allotments thereabouts), was thus the first
quarantine station in Victoria.
* * * *
Be the patent-medicine regulations recently
gazetted in M.L., Joseph Ward told a deputation
of objectors that one imported proprietary concoc-
tion, which was being widely sold in the State,
was of such a character that if a doctor gave a
prescription to a patient for medicine of the same
kind he would be criminally prosecuted. And
now everybody is asking the name of that particu-
lar coffin mixture.
* * * *
“ Rob the owners ! ” snorted an Australian
coasting captain who had seen deep-sea service, in
answer to a chance remark. “ Rob the owners !
Every deep-sea sailing captain in the English
merchant service does it. Well, every captain
with an ounce of human sympathy does. He must
do it, for his own belly’s sake and for the belli
of his crew. The pay is miserable, and the food
is practically never sufficient in quantity or other
than bad in quality. If the crew and the officers
are to be fed decently, the food supplied by the
owners must be added to. I never had the heart
to ask sailor men to work hard without proper
food, and I used to rob the owners whenever there
was a chance, to keep the pantry replenished.
How ? There are lots of ways. In the matter of
paint, charging for paint that was never got.
Same with ropes and sails. Sometimes there is a
chance of charging up for port labor for unloading
which was never engaged. But never mind ‘how.’
Take my tip, it is done. Owners lose more by
their meanness than they gain.”
AND THE HEN?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The leading E lglisli papers, and the American press,
applaud General Stoessel for his splendid heroism. Earl
Roberts considers that the defence of the fortress was
magnificent. “ Stoessel,” he added, “is a splendid fellow.
How all must admire him ! ” There is no mention made
of the rank and file.
Not for the men who served the guns,
Or met the charges of the foe—
The commcr. herd of Russia’s sons
Who passed, as shadows come and go ;
Not for the dead and wounded host
Shall history our praises claim.
The military Fatman’s toast
Is “ Stoessel 1 ” Rank secures the Fame.
The hero’s hat is gaily plumed,
The hero’s coat is decked with lace,
Whilst humble soldier-folk are doomed
The daily risk of death to face ;
They fight and die that he may shine
Amidst the horrors of the game.
“ By Jingo ! His defence was fine,
Write Stoessel on the roll of Fame. ”
E.F.


FALIERES' PHOSPHATINE
A Valuable adjunct to Infantile Dietary.
Parents who would rear Strong. Children, and avoid
the troubles incidental to Teething, should use It.
m
mspmm
rm
FOOD FOR INFANTS & INVALIDS
Axi. Chemists and Grocers. ,
X5
w
UITION
in Shorthand, Bookkeeping,
Engineering, &c. Coaching
for all Public Exams. Home
Study Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S Business
College, Sydney.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney —Arcade' (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
'disease. Pyroline Pellets remove not only the
superflous fat but also the internal deposits of fat
which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. By post, on receipt of postal
note, for 3s. 9d. large 13s. Arnold’s Balsom Co.
364 a Little Collins-street, Melbourne.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resell’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KING STREET,
The Meet comfortable and Up-to-date In the Olty. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention.
Sydney Daily Telegraph, on Thursday
last, Port Arthur having fallen, gave the public
something of the facts of the siege, in the following
lucid paragraph:—
The above map shows the earlier presumed ported at
Antongil Bay—shown on the map by circle off the north-
west coast of Madagascar. The route of the Baltic Fleet
to the Far East, but means of a circle directly above the
letter “ M ” third (supplementary) Russian squadron has
there been a change in the Russian naval in the word
Madagascar. Meanwhile the Rus been lost sight of since
last reported, about a plans. Just at present Vice-
Admiral Rozhjestsian cruiser squadron under Rear-
Admiral Foel month ago in the North Atlantic. Japanese
venski’s command is divided into three sections, kersahm
having passed out of the Red Sea cruisers—indicated by
crosses —have been re- After rounding the Cape with his
battleship -through “ the Gate of Tears did not proceed
ported off Diego Saurez, which is in the extreme squadron
lie evidently proceeded northward directly across the
Indian Ocean to the Strait north of Madagascar—and also
off Java and along the east, and along the. east, and not
west, coast of Madagas- of Sunda. He went south instead,
and has no north of Borneo, car, having, in this morning’s
cables, tweri re-arrived in Passandava Bay.
This baboo English suggests that the D.T.’s war
comments are supplied by some intelligent and
imitative Jap.
* • * *
Bishop Clarke cut into the heated Mel-
bourne discussion re Sunday trains, but nothing
he'said amounted to a row of pins till the last
lines : “With loyalty to their church on the part
of the people, what might they not do in this
State with their great Church of England ? What
a power they might become 1” Just so! It is
temporal power they are all after, and Bishop
Clarke, like most other clerics, has feverish dreams
of a ehurch strong enough to enable him to govern
Governments, and hold departments in the hollow
of his hand. The true prayer of the churches is :
“Give us power in our time, O Lord!” The
craving for heaven is more or less genuine, but
there is no doubt as to the average church wanting
the earth.
# « * *
Gov. Talbot’s visit to Mildura was a frost,
on account of the excessive heat. The people
declined to turn out in a 170° sun to receive even
a Governor, and only the school children were
on hand to cheer his Ex. when the train
crept into the station, nearly tvto hours behind
time. The poor kids weren’t allowed to escape,
and were literally baked to provide Sir Reggie
with good cheer. The cruelty to State school
children in making them victims of “loyalty”
demonstrations and slobber functions generally is
one of the blots on the Australian character. Not
so long ago, oh a boiling Westralian summer day,
school children were harnessed up to drag fat John
Forrest’s ear in triumph through the streets.
* * * *
To a great extent S. Australia flavored its
recent Christmas pudding with methylated spirits
and lubricating oil; for some weeks before, the
market was flooded with cheap lines, bearing a
bogus label, and consisting mainly of the things
mentioned. The part-swindle part-crime was
brought under the notice of J enkins’ Health
Department, but no swindling trader was gaoled
or even prosecuted. Only the Federal authority
can handle these things properly. The local
authority is too likely to be either the swindler’s
cousin or his neighbor, and sometimes he is the
swindler himself.
• * * *
The committal for trial of a dentist in one
of the capitals for an alleged offence on a young
female patient should startle the calling into
taking some measure of self-protection. The
various capitals swarm with good-looking young
dentists, most of whom are, nearly every day,
shut up for half-an-hour or more with some young
girl or other, her nerves unstrung perhaps by a
long bout with an aching tooth. The good-looking
young dentist is thus utterly at the mercy of any
hysterical feminine patient. Most of the prac-
tising dentists have no chaperone, male or female,
but share one girl to open the door among two or
three. In self-protection they should insist, if
their income won’t run to a “ secretary,” or some
such guardian, that no young female patient
should, unaccompanied, present herself for treat-
ment.
* * * *
The rabbit is making excellent headway in
Westralia, and will soon have the satisfaction of
having crossed from the eastern side of the conti-
nent to the western coast. Thousands have been
seen in close proximity to Kurnalpi, which is not
very far from Kalgoorlie, and some hundreds of
miles to the westward of the alleged rabbit-proof
fence. Boys and men make a good living by
trapping the bunny and selling him at Is. a pair
to the miners. He has been seen in small numbers
in the vicinity of Northam ; and as this is about
the beginning of the really good agricultural
country —country which runs right down to Perth
—it will not be long before he reaches the coast.
In fact, there are rumors that some leading
rabbits have already got there.
* * * *
“Spinaker” : Was travelling the other
day with a cow cockie in the train. He had been
married two days. I remarked that I had thought it
was Mary Brown on whom his happiness depended.
Bill frankly owned to the fact. “ I tried hard to
('get Mary. Fine girl, Mary; and a great milker.
But things didn’t go right, somehow. I was fair
shook on her, and might have got her if I’d had a
bit longer to court her ; but my cows started to
‘ come in, ’ and I had to take on someone. But ”
(brightening up) “this one ain’t too bad. She’s
milking her 35 cows now. Still, I’d like to have
got Mary.”
The State Governors’ salaries, “ perks ”
and extras are in such a confused state that it is
hard to tell how much a Government House now
really costs. When Britain paid Australian
Governors the cost stood clear as daylight. Phillip
asked; “How much for me?” Answer, £lOOO
per year. “How much for my secretary?”
Answer, ss. a day. “ How much for stationery ? ”
Answer, £2O a year. “How much for table
money?” Answer, nothing.
* * * *
Company promoters in Australia are said
lo be backsliding seriously in Imperialism. They
show now none of the old fervor with which they
used to solicit “ Sirs ” for ornamental positions on
prospectuses. “Public feeling is changing,”
said one of these magnates, the other day.
“Thirty, twenty, fifteen years ago ‘Sir’ was
worth a thousand on a pro.; it’s not worth a tenner
now.” When the Australian “ Sir ” wants to
guinea-pig now he has to do it in England,
ockburn, for example.
One incident of tlio N.S.W. bush fires that
has a gleam in it. Mr. Bowyer Smith, of Green-
hills (consumed by bush fires), and his family weie
found in a neighboring waterhole when the blaze
had passed. “He attributed the saving of his
wife and children to the heroic efforts of the
housemaid, Miss L. Adams, who shielded them
with her body while the flames leapt over and
around them. ’ ’
From “ Robin X.”
Eglinton, a small, seventh-
class school, near Bathurst
(N.S.W.), has an ex-
perimental farm
of two acres.
Each upper-divi-
sion child has
a bed in which
he grows what-
ever plants he
likes, and is
permitted,
with the
teacher's ap-
proval, to take
home the re-
sult of his
work. A por-
tion of the gar-
den is set apart
purely for ex-
perimental
purposes. The
amount of
work done by
the Eglinton
youngsters is
astonishing—2s
different varie-
ties of wheat
may be seen,
besides vari-
ous kinds of , _ .....
other cereals, vegetables, flowers, and grasses. Exhibits
(non-competitive) have been shown at Sydney and
Bathurst and have won much praise. J. W. Turner,
Educational Commissioner, visited the wee experimental
farm, the other day, and compared it favorably with the
best results and methods he had seen on the European
continent.
* * * *
A few months ago in N.S.W. a Royal
Commission sat solemnly, like the hen-moa of
Maoriland antiquity on the egg of an Australian
willy-wagtail, to consider ways and means to arrest
the “fearful” decline of the State’s birth-rate,
and decided that it was trade-unions and socialistic
legislation which kept the stork off our roofs. The
other side to the big-family cry was shown last
week when a man and his wife were brought before
a police court for neglecting one of their infants.
The unfortunate mother declared that she gave
the child all the attention she could spare from
her ministrations .to eleven others ; and the
father, a parcels-porter, did all he; possibly could,
but he earned only a poor pittance and was
even then cursed by the hutermittency
of his employment. The child was clearly a
victim of excessive patriotism on the part of its
parents, and to the lack of patriotism which allows
the well-paid work necessary for supplying Aus-
tralia’s manufacturing needs to go abroad; The
problem of procuring a family is one easily solved.
The problem of properly feeding, clothing, rearing
and educating the family when it is procured is
not so easy, especially in a semi-Frectrade land.
Sundry sycophants of Maoriland Railway
service lately engineered a “presentation” to
Minister Ward. The proposal was that every mem-
ber of the service should subscribe from sixpence to
half-a-crown each, and that officers when paying
wages should place the subscription-list before all
members of the service. Wellington Post exposed
the business one day before the “ st'ahd-alid- ■
deliver” date, and the result was a wild repudia-
tion by everybody of any desire to present any-
thing to Joe Ward. Ward denied all knowledge
of the movement, ordered instant withdrawal of
the cadging circular, and forbade the bushranging.
Subsequently, the men most mixed in the matter
were identified and had an experience that made
them feel as if they had been travelling down
Rimutaka incline in a sheep-train.
* * * *
Extract from one of the defendant’s love-
letters published in a Melbourne breach-of-promise
case :—“I feel happy to know that everything is
settled, and hope that God will bless and keep us
under His Almighty wing. Pray for us, darling,
and trust in God for all our future.” It seems to
be the usual thing for an unreliable lover to advise
his girl to trust in God.
6 * * * *
The S. Australian is the greatest stranger
to gaol in the Commonwealth. For years he had
more socialism than any other in the group, and,
according to all the rules of the daily papers, he
ought, therefore, to have cultivated a strong taste
for bombs and the destruction of private property ;
yet, while the N. S. Welshman’s chance of getting
into gaol in any year for smashing tilings, or
forging somebody’s name, is about five in a
thousand, the S. Australian’s isn’t as much as two
in a thousand. In the way of being run in for
being drunk the Tasmanian gets less excitement
than the person who is governed by Jenkins; but
none of the rest get near these two. In most re-
spects the Tasmanian has a pretty good record ;
but in the way of bashing his neighbor he isn’t all
that he might be, and gets into gaol twice as often
on that account as his Adelaide rival in virtue
does. Maoriland, which gets along with less than
half as many policemen to the thousand people as
N. S. Wales has, perches all the time not far from
the top of the tree of virtue. There is, by the
way, a general suspicion that N. S. Wales is ab-
surdly short of policemen ; yet, in proportion to
adult males, N. S. Wales is the most heavily
bobbied State of Australasia. Maoriland is the
least, and S.A. comes next.
* * * *
The establishment of Maori Councils for
control of Maori affairs by Maori men has already
achieved good, though but a few years have
elapsed since the councils were set up. Drunken-
ness in pahs has been checked, the bringing of
drink into pahs, without permission, being now a
serious offence. The tangible stenches that once
luxuriated in Maori homes have dwindled some-
what, and even the fatted flea of bygone times is
not so common as of yore. Cleaner living and
healthier surroundings are increasing the re-
productive power of this once dying race. A
baby in a Maori whare was once as rare as a clean
floor, but nowadays the cry of the infant is
common.
• • * *
Australia for the Australians. Under the
legend “Advance, Australia l*’ a Bondi Dago
announces choicest French confectionery and
latesb English novelties by every mail.
A NEW PERIL.
The value of thumb prints as a means of identification
has now been established beyond all doubt.— News Item.
“John, this belt of that hussy of a Jane bears
the imprint of your thumb in seven distinct
places. Your explanation, sir!”
A practical people, the Austrians.' A
young widow in Vienna has just got a verdict
for an annuity for life against two humorists who
told her husband that she was unfaithful—for a
joke. He took it seriously arid hanged himself.
The Appeal Court decided that the jokers made
her a widow, and must support her.
IN THE
SPRING
HThe boy sat on the Manly
J " boat,
head was in a whirl
Mis eyes and mouth were
full of hair
f-jjs arms were full of Oirl!
ERIC JEFFREY
THE EYE-GLASS CURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Chicago oculist has discovered that dipsomania can
be cured by properly fitted eye-glasses. He found that
inebriates generally suffer from certain deviations in the
accommodation and conveyance of the eyes, and that eye-
glasses which remedy these derangements of vision had
also the effect of decreasing the patients’ appetite for
liquor.
This is the Grand New Cure—
Simple, and cheap, and sure :
You put the glass in your eye,
And the glass on the bar pass by.
What drives a man to drink
Is seldom what people think ;
It isn’t inherited thirst
That sends him upon the burst;
It isn’t a taste acquired,
Or a craving fiend-inspired ;
It isn’t a greed insane—
When life seems hollow and vain ;
It isn’t the wish, in brief,
To drown in drink your grief—
It’s just, to be quite succinct,
The result of an optic squint.
The man with crooked eye
Sees everything awry,
But in his heart he knows
Things are not as they seem ;
And so he straightway goes
With juice of rye
To rectify
His form and color scheme.
He has the Thought Innate
That all things were made straight—
That is to say,
In simple way,
They truly correlate.
And if they do not —why
The fault is in his eye ;
So he restores with rum
Their equilibrium—
Remembering with awe,
Order is Heaven’s first law.
CREEVE ROR.


h*9
e n
COP
r>9
©I* 8
H e
t©**
p©
tct*”
es
I D* RAUB’S
, MEDICATED
SUTHALAY
! SOAP
Toilet
A CHOICE
TABLE D’HOTE DINNER
is served Every Evening at
BAUMANN’S CAF€
162 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
“Nym” : Let me put in an urgent plea
for the crane tribes of our inland waters, doomed
to ultimate and near-time extermination by the
vandals of pea-rifle and gun. The inland water-
courses are literally alive with yabbie and insect
pests through the killing off of these useful, harm-
less, graceful birds. Last Xmas Rochester (Vic.)
cemetery was flooded through the boring of
the pests allowing the channel to break loose
during the night, and a nice mess there was. In
Europe storks, &c., akin to our crane tribes, are
looked upon as essential to the safety of the people,
and protected.
The champion mean traveller has been
dug up at Timaru (M.L.). He had a season ticket
which ran out; but he continued to travel on it
for some time, the guards not taking the trouble
to examine it closely every trip. So he reported
them for negligence, and the Department dropped
on them heavily. The late E. M. G. Eddy, of
N.S.W. railways, put up a different record in
something of the same line. Travelling west,
unknown, a fellow-passenger explained how he
had often “got at” the railways. Eddy said
nothing till the journey’s end, then telling the
prattler who he was, explained that of course he
couldn’t make use of information got in that way,
but begged his crushed fellow-traveller to be more
honest towards his country in the future.
The Charm of Beauty. “Valaze” is not a
make-up, but a food which builds up the tissues and
nourishes the skin; removes freckles, wrinkles, sun.
burn, sallowness, &c., and enables a woman to retain
youthful freshness until advanced age. It takes only
a, few minutes to apply at night, and the only
trace of it next day is the wonderful improvement it
has wrought to the skin. After once using it you will
feel absolutely satisfied that its value is worth three times
the money. But beware of substitutes. Valaze —small
jar 3s. 6d., large 6s. ; posted 6d. extra. Valaze Face
Powder, three tints, absolutely pure, hygienic, and con-
tains no lead, chalk or bismuth, 2s. box. Valaze Herbal
Complexion Soap is unequalled for keeping the face and
hands in perfect condition —lasts six months —2s. Valaze
Preparations obtainable W. H. Soul, Pitt-street, Sydney,
Civil Service, all leading chemists, or direct from Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, 243 Collins-street, Melbourne.*
8 “e KETT
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
jvlish.
V RAINCOATS.
. The New
orsets
For Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . • «
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 10, 1905.
My Dear Artnt.—
Elizabeth Bay has been upset lately by a revival
of the cockade question. A recent arrival from
England has, among other things, inherited the
right to add a cockade to her man’s livery. She
was much mortified on her first drive by meeting
the carriage of a wealthy plebian, with two men
on the box, each sporting a cockade on his top-hat.
Appalled by their colonial ignorance, the new-
comer kindly explained their error to the unfor-
tunate people, who just as politely retorted that
she could put her head in a bag. Sydney has no
regard for the religion of carriage etiquette.
Some years ago when folk, on setting up their
carriages, began to paint crests on the doors, like
the English do, a retired shopkeeper appeared with
a real elegant thing—three azure cockerels, crowing
on a stable d’or over a worm couehant, or some-
thing of the sort. A scandalised visitor pointed
out with alarm that this w r as the totem of the
Norfolks or Plantagenets or Somersets. The
shopkeeper and his wife only beamed the more,
and congratulated their carriage painter on his
good taste in crests.
Sydney University has lately been consider-
ably enlivened by a young lady undergrad.,
whose ideas of University life are free and humor-
ous. She is a source of perplexity to the authori-
ties. No feminine lias yet achieved-rustication at
Sydney University, and the Senate, which is made
up almost wholly of men of that advanced age
which is excessively polite to young women, is
reluctant to make a start.
Adelaide got a look the other day at a yard
or two of the output of the Zion City lace factory,
which Elijah Dowie boomed when he was tossing
his beard over these parts. One of Opposition-
leader John Darling’s daughters was married to
one of the rare lawyers in the S. Australian As-
sembly, and another of the Darling girls, in
attendance as understudy, wore a wonderful
gossamery creation which “Elijah” had sent out
as a gift to the young kinswoman who had seemed
most beautiful to his prophet eye. Most Adelaide
people thought that his S. Australian relatives
had finally “cut” “Elijah,” but this doesn’t seem
like it.
One of the best tableaux at the recent Sydney
races was made up of a Chinaman, his white wife,
and three quaint, beautifully dressed infants.
The youngest was naughty, so mamma spanked it,
then handed it to her hubby, and went off to
back her fancy.
Talking of women doctors : Dr. Susie O’Reilly,
who has been, after prolonged discussion by the
directors, rejected as a medical resident of Sydney
Hospital, is a pretty, rather fragile-looking girl
of 22 or so, the daughter of a dead College-
street physician. One great argument against
her engagement as resident is that of the d.t.
patient-sufferer. A lady called upon to treat a
' gentleman suffering from the hallucination that
he is (say) a Bengal tiger ! He, perhaps, bites
her ! Other horrid and unwieldy cases come into
the casualty ward at night. But the women
nurses have to deal with the Bengal tiger and
other horrid cases. Why not the woman doctor ?
Curious thing that the male nurse is not a suc-
cess. He cnnnot keep awake, it seems. And he
shows a tendency to give the d.t. patient an ugly
left instead of a tender pat.
At Wairou Pah (M.L.) two Maori tribes have
lived side by side for nearly a hundred years
without intermarrying; bat on Christmas Day
the old traditions were thrown overboard, notwith-
st rnding the warnings of the elders that an earth-
quake would probably follow. The aloofness
dated from 1810, when sanguinary Te Rauparaha,
with his Atiawa braves, crossed Cook Straits and
with 10 newly purchased rifles slaughtered five
hundred Rangitana men and made slaves of
the rest. The marriage which broke the long-
established coolness was performed by a Mor-
mon elder, who has established himself at
the pah. (Quite a number of Maoris profess
Mormonism.) The festivities were elaborate
and orthodox, and included a white marquee,
a three-decked wedding cake, buns by the hun-
dredweight, lemonade by the hogshead, a white
silk dress and a lengthy veil for the bride, and a
fancy waistcoat for the man who broke the ice.
A Brisbane boy the other day put a handful of
gun-powder into a ginger-beer bottle, dropped a
match into it and peered in to see the effect. His
tanned and freckled face-skin suddenly left for
parts unknown, and at latest the new covering is
as soft and smooth as a new baby’s. Women
might try this new remedy for freckles. It is not
more dangerous than some of the “ Beautiful for
Ever ” dodges.
Miss Grimshaw, a correspondent of the London
Daily Telegraph, is mountaineering in Maori-
land. She is of Junoesque build, and means to
climb Mt. Tongariro.
Extract from a private letter from Paris
(writer is a man, a good amateur musician): —
I was present at two Marchesi expositions of her pupils’
voices. They were the picked subjects, and, later, I
could not help marvelling what the organs of the wall-
flower students must be like. There were a few fair
voices, not one of stellar promise, and a number
simply not worth the training, except for subur-
ban-home use. But Marchesi finds it well to move
with the times, and accept for training many a hope-
less Squall. She actually progresses enough to teach
coon songs ! I heard Miss Violet Clarke—a daughter of a
recent State-Governor of Victoria—and saw her constantly
about with the Castles girls, Amy and Dolly. Miss Clarke
has a sweet, tiny voice of no particular quality, dust fit
for the mutual-admiration home circle, yet she is chasing 1
that phantom quarry, an opera engagement. Melba’s
fault! Melba ought to be reproached severely for encourag-
; ing such a nice girl to waste her time in this way instead
of looking for a Guardsman or a rich cotton-ginner.
The parental Sydenham Clarkes are much opposed to
their daughter’s desire for a Career. By the way, after
.the Violet left Marchesi she tried Jean de Reszke as a
teacher.
Paris and London are full of agents who live on the
credulity of girls who want an “ engagement,” musical or
dramatic. Whilst looking for Miss ’s address 1 was
•told that she might Vie at a certain agency. Went to the
den. Eight modestly-dressed, very refined-looking girls
were sitting around, and lying on the table, smoking, was
the agent. The girl he was deig-ning to converse with at
the moment was smiling sickly-wise in a spirit of sickly
submissiveness. Fortunately, the lady I sought was not
there, but another Sydney girl was.
The expense of properly training a voice for public
consumption is awful. The Castles sisters had besides
Bouhy (who charges 30 francs for a half-hour’s lesson)
an accompanist, a diction master, and an acting master.
Yet some Australian girls havfe come over to London or
Paris with a voice-promise and less than £5O in their
pockets !
That gracious Consul Biard d’Aunet is leaving
Sydney—to Sydney’s great regret. This ex-naval
officer, with his spats and his side whiskers and
his ceremonious manner, helped to make R.C.
church-going fashionable. By the way, there has
ibeen a slight decrease in the number of would-be
smart damsels at a certain R.C. church since Nar-
cissus Count Perretti de la Rocca left Sydney.
Mrs. Spencer Brunton’s automobile is the latest
interest m Sydney. It is like a little dog-cart,
and knocks out anything else in the way of ben-
zine buggies or kerosene carts. She will drive it
up to Bowral. It is quite the thing now to avoid
training to your counti'y fireside. Mrs. Lachlan
Beaton drove her dog-cart to Bowral. She was
two days on the road. Talking of country fire-
sides, it was, however, humorous to see the vice-
regal staff at Sutton Forrest, black as sweeps,
beating back the bush blazes, and so saving the
orchard.
In my walks abroad of late I have counted four
just-finished villas called “Oyama.” Evidently
the Japanese commander of that name is popular.
Hope some Russophile builder will retaliate with
Kuropatkin or Stoessel.
One! of the Howard Smiths, the shipping folk,
has been to call on a Wagner opera, at home in all
its length and tumult at the Munich house. A
pound a seat-was the charge, and the house was
crammed. Opera began at 4.30 and was over jlist
before ten. After the first act, tea was served in
the foyer, and after the second, dinner—but those
who had not previously bought a dinner ticket
had to do with a sandwich.
Strange things medical men in London do. In
half-a-dozen minor chronicles has appeared of late
the statement that “Dr. Wilsbn Rees, the throat
specialist, recently sent for Miss Rooney to
examine her throat and vocal chords on account of
her phenomenally low range of voice.” Verdict:
“ She.has an exceptionally strong throat and large
epiglottis.” Which Kate probably already knew!
It would take something more than basement
notes to rouse Sydney throat-specialists’scientific
interest. We have here a lady who sings the
Fog-Bell in tones like a combination of young
earthquake mutterings and prize bull mooings,
and nary a specialist has asked for a view of her
musical box. (For that matter no specialist in
brains has ever asked for an inspection of my
intellect.)
A barber friend of mine recently made a sapient
and, I fancy, original observation about lined fore-
heads and bald heads. “A man can’t both keep
his hair on and have an unwrinkled forehead. If
you have a tight scalp you’ll be bald or seldom-
haired, but you’ll h ive a smooth forehead ; if you
are loose in the scalp, you’ll keep a good crop of
hair and develop a.spider’s web of forehead lines.”
The late Herbert Spencer, in his autobiography,
commenting on the remarks of others upon his
smooth forehead, explains that he never puzzled
over a question, but allowed problem and answer
to develop in his mind, without haste or effort.
Perhaps, after all, the charm was due not so much
to a great intelligence working easily as to a small
scalp drawn tightly over a large skull.
A tourist, writing from M.L., refreshes my
memory about Sophia, the famous guide of
the Hot Lakes district. Sophia must have been
in a cliatty mood, for amongst her causerie
'was the item that her father, a Scotch engineer
(Sophia is a half-caste), had 30 wives and a hundred
children. She herself was married at 17, and had
10 children by her first husbancl. A month after
his death she paid him the compliment of giving him
a successor. Alluding to the late Alfred of Edin-
burgh, Sophia says : “I was good-looking in those
days, and the Duke paid me a lot of atten-
tion, but my husband was a very jealous
man. and the Duke never had a chance.” This
admission is perhaps made regretfully. One of
her greatest prides is of her appearance in Sydney
with the Dacres in that ill-starred play, “The
Land of the Moa.” But she is crammed with
legendary lore, and is a capital story-teller, well-
spoken and intelligent.
The Iloldships—once of Auckland, M.L., but
long settled in Sydney-—have gone to cool them-
selves in the southern portion of their native
islands. One of the Holdship juniors, married a
sister of-the famous Mrs. Willie Mitchell (of whom
we hear nothing these days). The Gulletts have
likewise gone in the same direction. Most Aus-
tralians knowJ'%fK3rullett, senior, of editorial and
literary fame. A daughter of his married the
present editor of the Herald, Henev. Another
cliughter is a do'etor. A third stays at home and
protects pa from the. spooks of the wild leaders he
wrote in tlie long ago. Mr. and Mrs. Charlie
Norman he was formerly of the Argus—
inhabit the Gulletts’ house “up the line,” where
the giant sweet-pea blooms, and the holy hush is
at its broodiest, and the residents stagger home
nightly under the weight of the provisions they
are unable to buy up there.
Dolly Castles will be 19 next month. She looks
like Snow-white and Rose-red of the fairy tale,
these off-days, in a white linen frock and a scarlet
poppied hat. Miss Castles says that Bouhy was
averse to training her voice because it was
not “grown” enough. She was not wild
with joy over her “Patience” r6le. Her songs,
she confides, “travel” in that opera so much on
F and G, the weakest notes in her voice, which
registers from lower F to upper E. She is more
flattering to her 16-year-old sister Eileen’s voice
than to her own. So there will always be a Castles
of song. Even the baby cries melodiously in a
high mezzo. Amy and Dolly had with them in
Paris for a time a 23-year-old aunt of theirs,
and Dolly is amusing when she tells of
the efforts of gallant Frenchmen to mash
the lady. “ Fair hair attracts them.” Auntie
was always followed, and several times there were
attempts on the part of some budding Henri of
Navarre to isolate her from the group she was
with.
Further temporary lessening of Sydney’s resi-
dents. Mrs. Herbert Marks and Miss Want are
going to Fogtown-on-the-Thames ; so are statisti-
cian Coghlan and his pretty wife. Mr. Willie
Lawson, of the massive intellect and large banking
account, will squire a party of ladies Home.
An attractive damsel about Sydney now is Miss
Sophie Lashmore, lately a member of Holloway’s
co. She is a Newcastle girl.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“A capable young face-masseuse is fitting up a
special parlor for lie-customers. All last year the
sly arrangements to clear the way for male clients
and get them away after the steam treatment in
absolute secrecy were a worry. Now, this smart
masseuse is going to open a special boudoir for
men only, and chance them finding out one another
having their wrinkles removed. and their fatal
beauty polished up. One tiling, a man can always
wink and convey the notion that the beauty-dis-
penser’s attractions are a reason of patronage. The
brutes are quite equal to such a pretence.
“ It appears a notorious daughter of Solomon,
who helped to besmirch the • reputation of two
rich men in neighboring capitals, isn’t too anxious
to take on the matrimonial bit in ordinary har-
ness. The adorer who has been granted his
liberty ‘ for a second martyrdom ’ pleads for the
altar, but the siren stands back and temporises.
The L. L. Lewis couple are driving about in
the cutest carriage-hansom yet seen in this State.
It arrived from the Big Smoke a few weeks ago. It
is pretty much like a swagger hansom, but with
glass doors, vis A vis, like a brougham, and a lower
body than the ordinary two-wheeler. It is very
neat, smart, and light. Two shades of green
show the fashionable London carriage-colors.
“In its fresh coat of paint the Royal is now
quite a stylish house, which helps to explain why
the present panto, attracts a dressy congregation.
A recent Monday night a Melba-Mitchell clan,
with Mr. Tom Patterson as body-guard, attended.
The snowy-capped mother of Mrs. Waxcellency
Madden, with a party of Travers and other near-
of-kin, had front pews in the circle. Close at
hand were Mrs. Balls-Headley, Mrs. W. Leonard,
and the most senior of the Argus Mackinnons.
One noticed, also, a Collins-street head-rigger in a
wonderful Moonlight-on-the-Nile garb, cut low,
and gorgeous with gems. Leaning to her in the
absorbed way : of an attached man was a leading
Melbourne bachelor of seasoned grain, whose
clothes are an eloquent sermon on the tailor’s art.
“Miss Elaine Ravensberg cuts a surprisingly
shapely figure on the boards after one lias eyed
the vast proportions of the lady in the street. I
saw her in Swanston-street, the other day, looking
hot, cheerful, and huge. A skirt of any old cut
strained over her wide hips, and above a pouch
blouse hung quite slack. Next time I saw Miss
Elaine she was as trim and slick as possible in her
blue Sinbad suit. She lias the advantage of light
limbs and neat ankles, so that her appearance
takes on a fetching sprightliness. They say (good
old ‘ they say ’) that this panto, boy has a family
tree of considerable age and quality, that she
differs intellectually and otherwise from the
orthodox shemale in tights, and has a notion of
breaking bread only with the Nicest. There are
panto ‘ boys ’ and ‘ boys, ’ if you please.
“ There is no logic in this sex of ours. A dame
who for long periods forgets that she is married,
and takes her conquests wherever she can score
them, was mightily perturbed the other day on see-
ing the kindly, patient, forbearing hubbie in the
company of a very engaging widow. The wife
was hurt, offended, wounded, insulted. And now
there’s remonstrance to follow with a vengeance.
“ Another mummer who of late has shared in the
fat applause of an easily-tickled audience talks of
London in the near future. ‘ London calls ’•—she
tells her chums. Borne of the Australian mummers
who have tried the Big Smoke don’t seem to hear
its loving call. ‘ Idleness,’ writes out one failure,
‘is a trial to a bread-winner anywhere, but on all
God’s earth, there is no agony like it in this
crowded, iron-hearted London. Idleness here is a
torture ; a hell that puts Dante’s in the shade.’
‘ ‘ Reassuring letters come from tenor Walter
Kirby as to regained health. The wandering
minstrel has had a bad illness, due to the first
freezing blast of the London winter. Now he is
up and fighting the fog with the rest of healthy
mankind. Also he keeps the frog out of his tender
thorax and sings soniewhat frequently (by all
accounts) on private platforms. Melba’s interest
in Mr. Kirby has waned, or her own state of
health has taken up all her spare attention. The
tenor doesn’t mention that she is overwhelming
him with services.
“Miss Sara Hyman prepares a trousseau that is
getting all the other stage charmers green with
envy. A debutante enthusiasm excites the little
bride-elect to wonderful lingerie efforts.
“ In 'the brass and braid quarters congratula-
tions are pouring in on young Cap. Eddie Waters,
whose engagement to a Sydneyite—Miss Whiting,
of beauty reputation—has been announced.
“ The return of a smart lie-mummer to these
parts recalls to mind his engagement to a very
wealthy widow, when he was last here. The
engagement created a sensation ; its breaking off,
after preparations were far advanced, another.
Now, after a year or more, the mummer returns
horribly fat, and very much less attractive. The
lady looks and, perhaps, rejoices.
“ Miss Vera Thornley, the youngest and pertest
daughter of late Nathaniel Levy, M.L.C., takes
a berth on the India for London. On her last
year’s trip she earned an engagement ring, and
now she returns to his country to keep her matri-
monial promise. The fiance is a Mr. James
Macpherson, labelled C.M.G.
“ The Wrixons prepare a motor stable and some
motor toilettes for the near future. I wonder
what old S’Henry—the nervous, shy, eye-troubled
book-worm—is going to do while his energetic
wife and sons rattle about on motors. His pose in
the House of Landlords is ever a reproach to
noise. He sits huddled up, as if asleep, in a cor-
ner ; or, with a wide green shade as a verandah to
his eyes, doubles over a colossal volume of statis-
tics.
“At latest, Miss Grace Palotta, of fascinating
memory, was doing a vaudeville turn with four
‘society’ trailers at a New York show. But
Grace looks longingly at Australia. She wants to
be spoilt all over again.
“New Year races drew none of the smart to
Flemington. Toorak is just now almost a howling
desert. The only little charmer to reclaim the
Terrace from utter dreariness was the youngest
daughter of Secretary Byron Moore, a sweet,
plump young minor with an air of taste. A
period of convent schooling probably accounts for
the plump condition of this charmer. She belongs
to a particularly lean family, but convent boarders
are proverbially prime young persons. At one
fashionable nuns’* college seven square meals are
served a day. The boarders are treated like
chickens fattening for the market.
“ An interesting Elyspeck marriage is announced
—Miss Sprent, a’Varsity grad, (daughter of the
late Surveyor-General) and Mr. Herbert Nicholls,
Attorney-General in the Propsting Ministry, and
one of a go-ahead lawyer firm. His father is
editor of the Hobart Mercury, and is the most
Conservative journalist in the Commonwealth.
“ The whirligig of time brings about other
things besides revenges. On Saturday night,
when the group of frocked charmers came on in
‘ Florodora ’ to chirp of the Six Pretty Maidens
and to typify the feminine cussedness whereby
they must love someone, it was found that three
leading whirlers of the original team were sitting
with their rich hubbies on the other side of the
footlights. Within two years, three of the
maidens have married Money and, of course,
Love; and a fourth is suspected of having sub-
mitted to the yoke for Love alone. However, a
trio of happy and snug-looking dames regarded
the new corps with thanksgiving eyes.
“ The evolution of Miss Clara Clifton from the
comely, h-less unornamental dresser in ‘Kitty
Grey ’ to the Lady Holyrood of ‘ Florodora ’ is a
real surprise. Theatre-goers read with alarm that
the large, ample comedienne was to step into the'
No. 3 shoes and 22-waist frocks of Grace Palotta.
The thoughtful stall-holder reckoned that Clara
would run the part on Ada Reeve lines, and
make a bold burlesque of the Society ‘ lydy.’ They
were wrong. The fair mummer simply took the
hot house by storm in gorgeous raiment, soft,
mousey ways, and a yum-yum trickiness of quite
a good brand.
Yours Affectionately,
AKESEHI.


m
The Pope’s Doctor.
The latest portrait of Dr. Guiseppe Lapponi, the Physician to His Holiness
Pius X, is here given—and here is a letter from this eminent Scientist giving his
opinion of Dr. W illiams’ Pink Pills as a blood-builder and nerve-tonic :
Translation. “ Via dei Gracchi 332 Rome.
“ I certify that I have tried Dr. V illiams’ Pink Pills in four cases of the
simple anaemia of development. After a few weeks of treatment, the result
came fully up to my hopes. For that reason I shall not fail in the future to
extend the use of this excellent blood medicine, not only in the treatment of
other morbid forms of the same kind as antenna or chlorisis, but also in cases
of nervousness, neuralgia, neurasthenia and the like.
“ Signed— Guiseppe Lapponi.”
Dr. Lapponi stands at the very head of the medical profession in Europe. His position
at the Vatican under Leo XIII and Pius Xis a guarantee of that. He is known, moreover,
as the most independent and out-spoken man in Rome to-day.
Dr. Vi illiams Pink Pills, which Dr. Lapponi recommends so highly for anaemia, bloodlessness,
neuralgia, nervousness, etc., can he obtained from all chemists and storekeepers, or from the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, at 2/9 a box, or six boxes for 15/3, post free.
®s
PERSONAL ITEMS.
There is unhappily, as yet, no indication
of the return to health of Charlie Kingston.
J. C. Watson has not yet fully recovered
his health after the strain of his hard work as
Premier and Treasurer. He needs, and should
take, a spell of ease.
Adelaide is amused at present at the fact
that Langdon Bonython, in adding to the’Tiser
buildings, has perpetuated his own features in a
stone bust let into the fagade.
Mr. Sam. Smith, of the Arbitration Court,
has been seaman and coal-miner. He was raised
within a stone’s throw of a coal pit, and worked
among black diamonds until 24 years of age. He
struck for the eight hours day at the age of 14.
Melba is paying dearly for her Australian
tour, that seemed so profitable at the time. In
missing a European winter she weakened her
chest, and now, for the second time since her
return to the other hemisphere, she has had to
cancel engagements owing to an attack of bron-
chitis.
Mark Hambourg, the Slav pianist, lias
become a naturalised British subject.
Chief-Justice Way, of S.A., like Chief-
Justice Madden, of Melbourne, has been in a very
unsatisfactory state of health lately.
The S.A. Church of Christ has a pastor
Abbott, who has just completed his 91st year
and is still preaching. He has been haranguing
congregations for 70 years.
Anthony Macmillan, secretary to the Oak-
bank brewery (S.A.), had the curious ill-luck to
be. killed by a lemonade bottle last week. Driving
a buggy down a steep incline, he was upset, struck
on the broken bottle with his forehead, and was
dead in an hour.
Arthur Garner (once of Williamson, Gar-
ner, and Musgrove) is turning to literature in his
elderly days, and is now busy on a “ History of
the Australian Stage.” The history will first
appear in the columns of the Stage, the cockney
theatrical organ, and will eventually be issued in
book form.
Parson Bevan, of Melbourne, is preparing
to get away to Europe for yet another holiday,
and this time he talks of making it an “ extended
visit,” on account of his wife’s health. Bevan’s
time on earth has been so uncommonly pleasant
for him that the fat-salaried shepherd must surely
blush when he talks about a Better World.
Tasmanian Labor party has engaged the
Rev. Palamountain, who was recently sacked by
the Scotch by terians for daring to express sym-
pathy with Radicalism, to spend three months
organising political leagues and spreading the
doctrines of Laborism. He must be kept at the
work much longer to swing Vandemonia round.
Bleeds Fitchett favors his own mag., Life,
with how he wrote the “Deeds,” in the spirit of
Gibbon, telling how he wrote the immortal his-
tory. Fitchett, it seems, did not write at all, but
dictated to a young lady secretary, while pacing
his workshop. At the end he dictated “I lay
down my pen,” and she commented: “What a fib! ”
FINK, M.L.A., OF VICTORIA.
The unkissed Gladstone Dowie has been
jilted by his wealthy Swiss bride-elect, who has
left Zion in disgust. Perhaps, foreseeing some-
thing of the kind, papa Dowie made a Zion by-law
that engaged couples should not be allowed to kiss
until after the wedding, so Gladstone is still the
innocent and uncontaminated young thing of
yore.
Australia’s militant atheist, Jos. Symes,
late of the late Liberator, has recently
gone on the land. Mr. Symes, who is, fast
approaching 70, has taken a small farm out Mordi-
alloc way. The vigorous, pertinacious battler has
not finally given up lecturing. His old domicile,
the Hall of Science, has passed into the hands of
the enemy.
Said that Judge Dash wood, Government
Resident in the Northern Territory, will shortly
resign. If so, his successor will probably be
Charlie Herbert, well known in Sydney, where
he, a few years ago, practised law. Since 1900 he
represented the Northern Territory in the State
Assembly ; for a while he practised as a solicitor
at Port Darwin.
A book-hunting parson, lately inquiring
in a second-hand book-shop in Lt ndon for works
on Macriland, was handed an elaborate, leather-
bound volume that proved to be some remarks of
Premier Seddon on native affairs. On the title-
page was--“ To the Hon. Lady Mary Lygon, from
R. J. Seddon.” The lady was in the Yorklets’
touring suite. The parson bought the book for a
shilling.
The South-st. (Ballarat) “literary and
elocutionary ” outbreak has had one more sorrow-
ful result. The strain of presiding over George
Reid and the Waxellency, on top of seeing Casa-
bianca on the burning deck, and listening to the
lays Of ancient Rome, has turned the brain of one
leading panjandrum; and the poor fellow, an
honest, hard-working tradesman till all this honor
was thrust upon him, has been committed to a
hospital.
Agent-General Grainger (S.A.) writes that
Iceberg Irvine was altogether wrong in stating
that Australia and Australians are unpopular in
England. “ I challenge him to name One person
as his authority. I don’t ask for the names of
three unrighteous men, but only one.” Mr.
Grainger adds that Mr. Irvine was only a few
weeks in London.
People still bandy Vic. Premier Bent’s
name to and fro as engaged to this one and
secretly wedded to t’other. Six months ago,
report had him, all cut and dried, privately wedded
to a churchy representative personage of Old
Brighton. So far, anyway, he’s safe!}' settled
with his married daughter (his only child) in a
small cottage in Middle Brighton. To all social
functions where petticoats are bidden he brings
along his daughter and a niece.
On his recent trip to England, Iceberg
Irvine left his measure with a Bond-street tailor,
and now assures his friends that he will always be
provided with pants made in London. In this he
follows the fad of many rich Australians. As
good a garment can be got in Australia as in Eng-
land, but some Anglo-maniacs elect to get their
actual where they get their political coats.
A Maoriland correspondent:—
Re M. H. McCarthy (B. l/12/’O-t). I can’t subscribe to
his sweeping condemnation of the M.L. Arbitration Act,
but I remember this : When the Government a few years
ago bra tally ill-used Grattan Grey for his writings on the
South African swindle (writings, by the way, which few
would now question), McCarthy was one of the few men
who had the courage to take Grey by the hand and assist
in giving him some token of approval before he sought
more tolerant shores, M'Carthy, in fact, accepted the
position of secretary of the Grey testimonial fund, and
the loss of some of his oldest customers didn’t scare him
into silence—in those days it was a risky thing to give the
Boers even the stingiest credit for anything.
Tasmanians so far are inclined to like their
new Governor. For one thing, they fancy he’s
rich, and wealth has endearing charms for the
Hobart of to-day. Gov. Strickland is an enthusi-
astic amateur mechanic, and also likes to supervise
the workings of his domestic machinery. Soon
after his arrival he looked into all the billets in
Government House, and readjusted the salaries,
giving some more pay and others less, according
to his estimate of the value of their work. A
Governor who can gauge the value of a housemaid
or a stable-boy accurately is something of a
wonder.
Five or six of the people who landed at
Holdfast Bay from the pioneer ship, Buffalo, and
were present when Hindraarsh “proclaimed” the
province, are still living in S. Australia. One of
them, H. T. Morris, was Hindmarsh’s nephew ;
and Hindmarsh sdnt him into the-main rigging as
the vessel moved up St. Vincent’s Gulf, to report
what the land was like. It must have been an
extra-good season in 1830, for, though it was the
end of December, young Morris said it looked like
a huge wheat field. Morris, who was the State’s
first inspector of stock, has been settled many
years near Kapunda.
They breed some fine men on the Hawkes-
bury (N.S.W.), and when the river men bury one
of the best they try to get that rare bird, a manly
parson, to read the burial service. Recently the
rural dean, Rev. J. Howell Price, said this over
the grave of a departed :
The deceased sought to alleviate the suffering and the
sadness of Richmond and district. He always responded
to the call of benevolence and charity. He was not a
churchgoer, it is true ; but if it depended merely upon
our churchgoing whether we got home at last, very few
would stand round the Great White Throne.
That’s a man’s talk about a man. Pity there is
not more of it!
Federal member ‘ ‘ Tommy ” Ewing was
something of a missionary once. His father, a
N.S.W. clergyman, had within his parish an island
inhabited by a Scottish family. Paterfamilias one
day besought the parson to visit the island and
baptise the young McAndrews; adding a request
that the Rev. Ewing should bring along his son
‘ ‘ Tommy. ’ ’ Rev. Ewing wondered but consented,
and the following day Tommy rowed his father
across. They were met by McAndrews who
explained—“ The kids are as shy as rabbits, Mr.
Ewing, but seeing that Tommy won the big
handicap from scratch at the sports last week, he
ought to be able to run ’em down ! ” Tommy
“ran ’em down,” seven of them ; and, one after
another, dragged them to baptism.
The importance of being B. R. Wise is
shown by the press attention directed on him even
while he is on the ocean for a holiday trip to
London. Mr. Wise acknowledged an ‘ ‘ unsolicited ”
letter of industrial credit to the English labor
leaders posted him by the Sydney Labor Council.
Bavister, a member of the Labor Council whom
Wise once knocked out in a Parliamentary elec-
tion, made a soured objection to this word “ un-
solicited.” He contended that the letter had been
asked for by telephone. It seems Fred Flowers,
M.L.C., a member of the Sydney Labor Council,
had telephoned to the secretary suggesting such a
letter would be a merited tribute and a fitting
introduction ; and the secretary and the council
held the same view, and the letter was sent. Had
the matter affected anyone but Wise the daily
papers wouldn’t have noticed it, but the parochial
Sydney sheets can seemingly never forgive him
for putting Federation before Freetrade.
NEW SOUTH WALES IN 1905 WITH A REMINISCENCE OF SAFRICA IN 1902.
FARMER BaOWN (who fought in the Boer war): “ Well, this is farm-burning from another
point of view.”
Mr. T. H. Lennard, of Randwick, the
well-known book-collector, has a well-preserved
edition of G. H. Reid’s “poem” on the Sydney
Exhibition. Young man Reid, with a glow of
pride in his cold blue eye, inscribed this particular
copy to the editor of the Mudgee Independent,
“with the author’s compliments.” From him it
went to Henry Parkes, whose signature is on the
title-page. At the breaking up of Parkes’ library
Mr. Lennard secured the volume, which is said to
be the only extant copy in Australia. The British
Museum is known to have a copy.
“Cattle-king” Kidman’s home at Kapunda,
which was one of the show-places of S. Aus., was
burned the other day, and with it many of the
bullock sovereign’s papers. The latter misfortune
wouldn’t have happened if Kidman had kept on
as he and his partner-brothers began. Years after
they had made a solid beginning at droving, stock-
dealing, and land-grabbing, one of the brothers
went down to Adelaide to arrange some money
accommodation. He made an appointment with
the head of a big financial concern to go into the
brothers’ position. Kidman turned up without a
book or a scrap of paper. “ What have you got ? ”
the big man asked. Kidman put his bushman’s
hat down between his knees, and started to dig
mobs of bullocks out ot his head. He ran his
fingers along the top of his right ear and
remembered 014 store cows on the Hergott track ;
then his hand wandered round and he remembered
310 fats near Birdsvi lie, and his fingers kept
wandering round as he worked off a long list of
animals. The big man sat up amazed every time
Kidman dug out another mob, and at last got his
breath and asked for books. Kidman had to
explain that that was a sort of animal he had not
stocked.
A pathetic story of the digging days opened
its last chapter a few weeks ago, when the police—
the guardians of Bent’s poor— picked up Emmanuel
Royer in the Whipstick (Bendigo) scrub and
put him in the hospital. A Frenchman, Master
of Arts, speaking with many modern and ancient
tongues, he struck the field in the fifties, saw
Nuggetty, Napoleon, Dead Horse, and a hundred
other rushes enrich their thousands, gambled and
wasted his substance in the roaring days that
followed ; and now, after 40 years’ fossicking and
battling over the hard ground, finds this end to
his development of one of the “great natural
resources ” of the country.
Dead, at the age of 88, Father Dalton,
“the Black Cardinal” of Australia. Entering
the Jesuit order as a youth, he spent his life until
manhood’s prime in Europe, and then came to
Australia to establish his Order here ; how well
the work was done the magnificent buildings and
estates now controlled by the Jesuits show. To
his courage and prescient faith in the future
was due the purchase of the Riverview
estate, Lane Cove River, on which now stands
the Jesuit College, occupying the best edu-
cational site in Australia. Father Dalton had
to a marked degree the social grace and the
deep knowledge of human nature which are so
strenuously cultivated among the disciples of
Ignatius Loyola, and he won many friendships
among men outside his own Church. To the very
last the old priest could enjoy a good joke and a
good dinner, and a visitor to Riverview —not so
very long ago—discovered Father Dalton in the
poultry yard, eagerly pointing out to Michael (or
it might have been Patrick) with one crutch, while
he leaned heavily on the other, the plumpest
chicken that it might be slaughtered for lunch.


(1
HOTELKEEPERS / Make your own AERATED
WATERS and SAVE from £6 to £lO on every
WO dozen of Waters used in your hotel.
THE AUSTRAL
Aerated Water Machine
(Improved Patent)
Is now in use in many of the leading hotels and clubs in
Australia and New Zealand. Prospective (N.Z.) buyers
please write for prices.
ALHAMBRA HOTEL, CUBA ST., WELLINGTON.
Sole Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY and SONS, Melbourne.
GREAT JEWELLERY SALE.~vi!
3/- in the £
OFF EVERY ARTICLE
IN OUR ENTIRE STOCK.
SALE CLOSES
JANUARY 31st.
SEND FOR OUR 65-PAGE
CATALOGUE, CONTAINING
THOUSANDS of BARGAINS.
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
G. &S. Alliance
(Goldsmiths’ and Silversmiths’
Alliance, Ltd.),
90 KING ST.,
•^SYDNEY.
GOLD & REAL PEARL
INITIAL BROOCHES,
7/6 now 6/5
ŧ
LOVELY BROOCH,
15ct. Gold, Set with Real Pearls and
Rubies or Sapphires—
-75- now 63/9
SOLID GOLD
BROOCH,
17/6 now 15/-
POST FREE.
Aboriginalities.
AT THE FINISH.
[For Tub Bulletin.]
When I have come to where the Things That Mattered
Are viewed as but a foolishness of old;
When men that drank and girls that loved are scattered —
Ah, honest hearts ! Ah, cherished hearts of gold !
Leave me within a bar where I have drunken
Of red and golden liquors there that flow
To sit aside and mourn the thirst that’s shrunken,
Or dream of bends I went on long ago.
That when Death makes his rounds and whispers kindly,
“ Time’s up, old cove, I’m turning out the lights ! ”
I’ll rise and follow, where he leads me, blindly,
Nor have one least regret of “ ifs ” or “ mights ” ;
For sure am I that in the vague Hereafter,
Whatever praise or blame may be in store,
There’ll be a tavern filled with merry laughter
Of friends who drank and loved in days of yore.
M>l ** J. Barr.
* * * *
“ Janor ” : Some of the Pure Merinos own
lots of things beside the land—in their minds.
Camped one night on a big freehold station, and
had the luck to catch a tine string of perch in the
river near the homestead. Commissariat being
low, I took some of the fish up to the house next
morning in the hope of exchanging them for
rations. Sighted the boss —a tired-looking young
man—who said “ Haw !” He ordered me to take
the fish to the kitchen and come down to the
store ; and with bis own aristocratic paw he doled
out one pint flour, ditto black sugar, and a fistful
of tea. Then Mrs. Merino appeared on the scene.
She was wool down to the toes, and inquired in a
high-pitched voice, reminiscent of something
dropping in a tin dish, what Reginald was doing.
Reginald explained. “What!” she rattled,
“ paying him for the fish ! Our fish, caught in
our watah ! Preposterous ! ” Reginald looked
foolish. I grabbed my payment, and reached
camp quite grieved that such a tine-looking wench
could grow ideas of that brand.
* * * »
“ Nym ” : Of all the contemptible vandals
whose paths I have crossed in the quest of sport,
the worst were in a party of Rochester (Vic.)
anglers, trailing the Campaspe, with a billy full of
h uf-fledged swallows for bait, during Xmas week.
Too lazy to dig worms, too dirty to swim in for
mussels (to be had for the diving), these conscience-
less fiends broke down scores of mud cosies to
obtain the fledglings for bait.
BOSS OF THE SITUATION.
EVANGELIST: “If I were your father, my boy, I'd see you did no
fishing on the Sabbath.”
ERRING YOUTH : “ Gam! My farther carnt see on Sundays. ’E
wurks all der week, an’ Sunday’s de on’ly time ’e’s got ter git
boozed.”
“Jack M.” : Is there any scientific ex-
planation of the man who stutters badly in speak-
ing yet sings without a hitch ? Knew a chap out-
back, who snapped his fingers and almost threw
somersaults for a quarter of an hour before he
could bid you good day. And yet he could sing with
much less trouble to himself than to others. First
time I met him I was sitting on my swag outside
Goodooga, when he rode up and asked me to the
tune of “Willie we have missed you” if I had
seen any horses knocking about. Entering into
what I thought his humor, I replied in the nega-
tive to the air of “Let me like a soldier fall.”
We then had two rounds to the tune of “ The
Marseillaise.”
Members of the Smith Eagle prospecting
party, Westralia, struck an interesting sample of
the primitive nigger during a recent ramble in
the wilderness in quest of nuggetty outcrops.
He was a detached savage, and came out of the
woods and associated himself with the enterprise
without any pressing. His most characteristic
feature was a marvellous appetite. When the party
had finished dinner on the second day after the
appearance of the camp follower he fastened on
to a newly emptied salmon tin. He turned it over
and over curiously, then he bit it. He bit it
again, and then he got angry with the thing, and
tried to worry it, but threw it away disgustedly
after breaking a tooth, with an exclamation that
was full of pure human emotion. “What does he
say, Dickie?” one of the miners asked tne party’s
hired aboriginal. The dusky brother grinned.
“ Him say that pfeller fish got plurry tough skin ! ”
* # ♦ *
“D.H.R.” : Does The Bulletin keep a
travelling editor, who does all the drawings and
most of the paper. Because, the other day, I
met him. He was a big sandy man, more like
a gorilla than anything else. He was in a sore
strait when I met him, for he had broken his bike,
and had had to walk ten miles in the mud to the
pub, and had carried a black bundle all the way.
Asked him several things about The Bulletin,
but he seemed rather vague. Anyhow, he got
supper and a bed in the best room on the strength
of it; and when I left next morning was guzzling
another nobbier—account to be sent to Bulletin
office.
* * # *
“ Timbarra ” : Driving a tunnel into the
bank of a creek in N. Gippsland, a little while
ago, we came across a corrosive mineral water, un-
known to anyone among us. It was of a p ile
amber color, and dripped from the roof in one
particular spot. Wherever a drop fell on boots or
clothing, the material fell to pieces in a few hours.
On picks or shovels, the water raised black, rusty
blisters. It had no effect on the unbroken human
skin, but the least cut or scratch, after being
in contact with the water, grew angry, then dry
and scaly. As each scale peeled off another
formed, and so on till a hole was eaten in, some-
times almost to the bone ; then the sore healed up
from the bottom. Coming away, I collected some
of the water in a bottle, but on the way home my
mates went on the booze and wanted to drink it,
so I threw it away. Have met with mineral water
in the Zeehan silver mines (Tas.) having a similar
action on skin abrasions, but otherwise non-corro-
sive, and of no particular color.
“M.”: The “weird
expectancy ” of things
Australian has some
connection with the
“ great natural re-
sources ” and the “anti-
socialistic tendency.”
Here, where the “great
natural resources”
spread themselves out
over the sun-baked
plains, the spirit
changes with the
seasons, of which there
are two —“before har-
vest” and “after har-
vest.” There is about
the beginning of spring
an air of possible pros-
perity. The cocky on
his weekly trip to
Horsham, spends his
bob or two shouting for
the auctioneer who sold
him the last lot of
broken-mouthed ewes,
or the mortgagee whose
arrears of interest the
good seasons have en-
abled him to reduce.
Rain falls copiously,
and there is a wild
hilarity observable the
following Saturday ;
but experience of Aus-
tralia’s possibilities
gradually increases the
tension. “ Weird ex-
pectancy ” sets in. The
man in the slop suit
has seen a thunder-
storm flatten a 30-
bushel crop. He has
heard that the grass-
hoppers are coming. It
may be a wet strip-
ping and half the corn
may shell out before it
can be bagged. There
may be a grass fire—
the Lord only knows
what there may not be.
So he buttons his
pockets the tighter and
smooges to the pressing
creditors, and eyes the
sky and the horizon,
and shakes a dubious
head when the moon’s
on her back. This strain lasts till he’s got the
cheque, and then—oh, then —the weird expectancy
lifteth, and for a short period he doesn’t give a
curse whether you’re a socialist or not. He will
even shout.
* * • •
The land crab is one of the pests of South
Gippsland. This gentleman is a pinkish yellow
creature from two to four inches long, very similar
in shape to the yabbie of Northern Victoria.
Its particular cussedness is that it scoops holes
about half an inch in diameter and pushes upward
the mud to form a ring of well-worked, stiff clay
about the top, like the sand around an ant-hill.
The rain pouring down the holes gradually works
a big excavation thinly covered by layers of turf,
and there is nothing like one of these crab-holes
for bringing a horse down.
A FRIGHTFUL SHOCK.
HOUSEWIFE (disturbed): “He came up and asked me to give him a drink of water. I said,
Certainly, but wouldn't you rather have a nip of whisky?'”
A resident of Nagambie (Vic.), last week,
achieved the distinction of being poisoned by a
platypus. He was fishing in the Goulburn River
when the furry beast —about 18in. long from the
tip of its absurd tail to the end of its preposterous
bill—gobbled the worm and was landed by the
angler. On getting quit of the hook it let out its
hind legs, and struck a spur into either hand of its
captor. Seemingly, a scratch from a platypus is
much the same thing as a bite from a snake. The
Nagambie resident swelled rapidly, and was not
out of danger for two or three days.
* * * *
“War. E.” : “Pigweed” (8., 29/12/’O4),
in wondering why cattle chew bones, strikes a
point which is soon to give over-stocked Australia
trouble, because the chewing of bones indicates
that the cattle are seeking the phosphates which
have been taken from the soil. With judicious
stocking the bone-day could have been long
postponed, but the grazier, in his greed for quick
returns, never “ rested ” the soil, and kept it over-
stocked till droughts relieved the pressure. Lack
of phosphates is the cause of “ cripples” in cattle.
They become hide-bound and waste away. Care-
ful dieting, with the use of bone meal, is the
only remedy.
• * * *j
“ Wongin ” : Can anyone give the origin
of the expression “bung,” as in “gone bung.”
There is a Queensland aboriginal word “ bong.”
In the journal of Walker, the explorer, the deri-
vation of billabong is given as: billa—vessel;
bong—empty or dead. And is “billy” derived
from abovementioned “billa”? [Generally sup*-
posed that “ billy ” is from the French bouillir, to
boil, whence also houilloire, a boiler or kettle.—
Ed.]
“ Loco.” : lie locusts on train wheels (8.,
22/12/’O4). I was an engine-cleaner on a country,
branch line some years ago, and had to clean the
locusts off the locomotive after every trip. There
were millions of them. The cowcatcher, guard-
irons, brake gear, brake blocks, ashpan, firebox,
and every exposed part would get inches deep in
locusts. It was my job to dig them off and shovel
away the mass from around the engine, so that
the driver didn’t get bogged coming to his work.
The smell was awful. On applying the brakes,
the blocks gcttS.ig hot, the locusts would fry. On
the firebox they fry all the time. The commercial
value of locust oil never appealed to me. My
chief object in life was to get rid of the stinking
mess as soon as possible. Locusts getting on the
rails frequently “ stick up” trains. Then the sul-
phurous language of the driver completely anni-
hilates the smell of the frying locusts.
* * * *
“ X.X.X.” : Right out back I met an old
“ swaggie ” who had immuned himself to snake
bite. He could take venom of the black, the
brown, or any other reptile, also all brands of
snake-juice, without turning a hair. I found that
he allowed himself to be bitten regularly by young
snakes whose venom acted
as a progressive inocu-
lation. Last time I saw
him he was chasing an
adder for its milk.
MODEST OF MIS KNOWLEDGE.
Revised regulations issued by the Vic. Commissioner of
Police, Mr. O’Callaghan, for the guidance of his subor-
dinates advise policemen to avoid an ostentatious display
of learning. —News Item.
11 Do you know, constable, that you have directed
me three times up the wrong street ? ”
“ Can't help it, sorr. O'Callaghan’s orders. I
thought it would he less ostintashious not for
to tell yez th’ roight way till th’ foorth time
of askin’.”
BREAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Sydney paper the other day published an article in
which city people were advised to bake their own bread,
as they still do where the emu roams unmolested and the
wild dog comes and sniffs suspiciously through the cracks
in the fireplace. Yet the back-country is full of men and
women, prematurely-aged, with faces like collapsible hats,
and eyes that glare at you like electric tram-lights—all
through trying to bake their own bread under difficulties.
There are others, too, with the red-blue variegated face
which bespeaks the baking-powder victim.
Oh, Lord, will you save Will you make ’em stop
Your simple sinner With their awful dough,
From the early grave Which is hard on top,
Of the bread-beginner ? And soft below ?
Will you belt them red Will you trip their feet,
With a long thick rope And knock them flat,
Who concoct bad bread Should they make us eat
Which looks like soap ? Bread which looks like that ?
Will you spoil the wood, Not a word we said,
So it won’t go red, But we ate and bore
If the devils should With the home-made bread
Try to make home bread ? In the days of yore;
Will you strike ’em dead, But)now we are old,
Or give ’em the rope, And our voices flat—
Who produce vile bread Once more we are told
Which looks like soap ? To eat stuff like that!
O.P.


Health and Strength
are promoted by the
daily use of
From Grocers and Stores.
SALT
Wholesale Agents Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
RINGS
We have been making for over
65 years.
We have not kept them all;
Others —wanted them.
Presumably because they were
good value —
Assuredly because the designs
were good.
Australian Sapphires
and Diamonds,
dSB 8s
Extra Quality
Diamonds,
£3O
Exquisite
Golden Sapphire and
Blue Sapphire,
18ct setting-, £6 6s
We know something about buying the loose gems. We make our Rings in our own workrooms.
We set them on the premises. No intermediate profits anywhere. Direct from factory to wearer.
tfST Our Prices do not exceed those of London. Hi
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“Gilaomi”: Re loquacity
of teamster’s cockatoo (8.,
24/11/’O4). A station driver
near Inverell (N.S.W.) had
a champion that used to ac-
company him on the road—
sometimes on the horses, and
sometimes flying from tree
to tree, full of strange oaths,
and predicting fearful things
for the livers and other parts
of “Bailey” and “Smiler”
if they did n’t wake up. When
excited he would fly for miles
along the road, and take a
hand in driving every vehicle
he saw. One day he alighted
from out of the bush on the
back of a buggy in which a
tame curate was driving two
ladies. His oratory and its
effects baffle description. Yet
,he never used his language
unless he saw a horse ; and,
being once taken to the home-
stead for the amusement of
“distinguished visitors,” he
behaved so nicely that an
■offer was made and accepted,
and the bird was taken to
Scotland. There he proved
a “frost,” and spoke little
or none till one of his old
friends, tripping later on to
the cold country, took him on
his arm to the stables. A
party of friends was present.
Cocky, catching sight of the
horses, raised his crest and
wings and let it all go, and
one terrified dowager fell into
a trough of water.
* * *
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” ;
Recently did a 600-mile jour-
ney in the very corner of the
Outerback. During the first
half of the trip I travelled
in a buggy with a mate o’
mine, and was charged only
a shilling each for very good
meals (there be some wonder-
fully clean and clever cooks
•along the heartbreak tracks
West o’ Darling). On the re-
turn trip along the same route
I travelled per coach, and was
charged two shillings per meal
•at the pubs. Evidently coach passengers are re-
garded as affluent folk. In reality, it is the
moneyed people who ride in private conveyances
Further-Out. The methods of charging for meals
Outback should be reversed.
* * # *
“ Alone !’ . I wish to put in two entries
for the mean-man competition. An hotel with
its owner and two little children was burned to
the ground here the other day. Whilst the ruins
were still burning, and the relatives of the victims
were suffering the first shock of grief, the cham-
pion mean man of the whole world came to them
and put in his claim for the price of an old coat
he had left in the care of the deceased publican.
And he was a rich man. Then there is our local
M'Parritch. He has a lot of sheep, but no rams.
He succeeded in borrowing one of those useful
animals from a good-natured neighbor. When
shearing time came the neighbor’s ram was shorn
along with MTarriteh’s sheep, of course. Then
MTarritch sent to his neighbor to come “an tak’
it awa’ hame an’ pay me sd. for the shearin’ o’t.”
• • * »
“ Gisiws ” : At what rate of speed can
flies fly ? Have been on vehicles travelling 10 to 15
miles an hour in the face of a strong wind, and
then was troubled by the pests.
THE REPORTER’S NIGHTMARE.
FIENDITUS : “ You have had trouble in getting
him here? ”
DEVILITUS: “ Yes; but he’s right now he’s had a
few drinks.”
BAR CANDOR
MR. HICMORE (to barmaid): “ Will you — hie—be kind enough,
Miss, to give us — hie—a whisky on tick; I am a—hie —
brilliant young fellow ruining myself with — hic — drink,”
“ Spinifex”: “ 0.P.” (8., 28/7/'O4) speaks
of the Too being able “ to leave horsemen behind
as the porpoise leave the steamboat.” Also, he
says the Too is a long distance racer. On the
open downs country in Western Queensland it is
no great feat to run a Too down on a fairly good
horse, and the bigger the Too the easier he is to
tire; or, rather, being a warrior, he “bails up”
more readily. “ 0.P.” also remarks that the doe
Too has the option of carrying her young hopeful.
She has—shortly before he leaves home and mother
for good ; prior' to that he is attached to the
*‘ fount from which all blessings flow,” and removal
means death to him.
* * * *
“Kolonga”: One curious effect phos-
phorus poisoning has on rabbits, when the dose
is too small to kill, is that, for a few days after,
bunny is seen to be unable to hold his ears up—
they flop about limply. Later on the ears start
to shrivel and shrink up a bit. On occasions one
ear is quite sound and one is shrunk. In
isolated cases the ears—or perhaps only one—
drop off about a quarter of an inch from the skull.
* * • *
“No; I don’t believe in them doctors,”
said Long’un. “ Did I ever tell you blokes about
the time I was had up in Sydney for the plague ?
Some blighter got it where I was lodgin’, so the
police came and put us inter
the quarantine place. The
doctor had a look at ine next
morning, and when ’e felt a
bit of a lump I’ad (it was
where O’Neil kicked me when
I was drunk), ’e shook ’is ’ead
suspicious like. _’E says nothin’,
but after talkin’ with some
other doctor blokes for awhile,
’e draws some blood from m©
with ’is little instrument. ‘ My
word, doc.,’ Isays, ‘thatdone
me a bit of good. I ’pose I
can go now? ’ Yer see, I had
a job waitin’ for me then. He
says nothin’, but goes over _to
where there was a cage with
a poor little guinea-pig, and
sticks ’is squirt into it. ‘ What’s
that for, doc. ? ’ I says. ‘ Well,’
’e says, ‘whatever ’.appens to
that there guinea-pig ’appens
to you.’ They puts me to
bed and makes me comfort-
able, but the thought of that
there guinea-pig keeps troub-
lin’ me, so every night I sneaks
out and has a look at the beg-
gar. It didn’t seem to alter
much for a day ortwo, and
then it had a sort of worried
look. Sure enough, I feels
myself gettin’ worried, too.
Well, the little beggar seemed
to be gettin’ worrider and
worrider, and me the same. Then one night I
wakes up all shivery like, and goes to have an-
other look at the guinea-pig.” Long’un looked
grave and gazed at the fire. “Well?” queried
somebody. “Well, that there guinea-pig had a
large family ! ”
‘ ‘ The Count ” furnishes this as a true hill.
Twenty yards from the entrance of the Agricultural
Building, the largest of the ornamental barns at the St.
Louis Fair, we heard a man shouting: “Genuine native
curios, all the way from Australia.” At mention of the
magic word we jumped forward, and after much bust-
ling, got into the crowd to which the salesman was hold-
ing up rows of necklaces.
“ Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Australia is a marvellous
place, full of strange beauty and wild barbaric customs.
Here you have for the small sum of two dollars and a half
a specimen of one of the marvellous works of the Wool-
loomooloo natives—the famous necklace, made from the
bones of the Rocks Push Tribe, the greatest cannibals of
Miller’s Point. Come on ladies ; don’t be afraid. Here’s
something that will suit you—lovers’ tokens from the
Wollongong tribe of Murrurundi blacks. The relics come
from the inmost recesses of Australia.”
At this point he made a sale, and we interrupted with
a “ Coo-ee.” He “dropped,” and beckoned. We had a
whispered word or two. “ Right,” whispered the show-
man, “ Australia is getting back on the Yankee bluffer at
last. Watch for some fun.” He resumed business.
“ Here we have a genuine native companion ” (holding
up a decrepit sheepskin for inspection). “These are
from Lake Kippax, on the Moore Park Reservation.”
“ Say, what d’ye call them blamed things native com-
panions for?” an Easterner wanted to know.
“ Well, the Lake Kippax natives never let their wives
sleep with them. Instead, they drive them out into the
open, and make them sleep under the shade of the nulla
nullas. Then, after driving their wives away, they wrap
themselves up in these companions and retire to rest.”
“ How much ?”
“ Two dollars.”
And he made another sale.
Five minutes afterwards we were outside with the show-
man and a liquor. The showman, who was “ getting a
bit back for Australia,” was the son of a Circular Quay
(Sydney) hotelkeeper who had set out to “do” the
World’s Fair on his wits, and, so far, had done it well.
* * * *
“F.H.R.” ; Sleeper-cutters have a multi-
tude of brands, and the simplest is the most effec-
tive. When a sleeper is branded on the end with
an ordinary candle, six inches of the end can be
sawn off, and the brand will still be visible. The
sleeper is green when the brand is put on, and
absorbs the fat as it dries.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and,
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
E.W.D. : As to whether the King wore high
boots at the Coronation or not we don’t care a cent. It’s
the sort of question only the British workman can get
excited about; and perhaps it serves to keep his mind
off the miseries of Freetrade J.R.: The old familiar
properties, “like a garden,” “fragrance filled the'air,”
“ music in the gentle breeze,” “ secluded shady nook,”
“ little purling brook.” And you wrote it on the W. A.
goldfields in mid-summer 1 Send something with burn
and blister in it....C.A.: Too bad for print, not bad
enough for scoff Junior: Poem with elaborate ex-
planation received; no poem that needs explanation is
printed by this paper until the poet is dead....Tanj
(Northern Nigeria): (1) What, in effect, you say is that
England has more sense in its municipal than its Parlia-
mentary government, and in the former adopts a system
of electing committees and sub-committees for their
special qualifications, and not on party lines—which is
quite right. (2) Thanks ; glad to hear from you again....
A.H.P. :We never buy a poem in a poke. Consign your
verses, carriage paid, and, if accepted, you’ll get full
market value Australian : It would be rather a reflec-
tion on our public life if a testimonial were got
up to acknowledge honesty always. The men have
had their reward in seeing the public converted....
J.E. (Adelaide): What a fine whole-souled Imperialist you
are ! Because you disagree with The Bulletin’s objec-
tion to paying naval tribute to England, you call for
“ the pistolling of the crawlers who run this paper,”
which is “ only read by ’s, thieves and low skunks
too dirty to bed with pigs,” and for the burning down of
our office. You should go on the platform, young man.
It’s a pity that one with such powers of argument
should waste his greatness on The Bulletin w.p.b
O.N. : Try and revive it certainly, but for ourselves. The
craze to export things is getting almost as bad as the
craze to import things. If we did our own manufacturing
there would be no need to put up with fishy butter and
speckled apples for home consumption, so that the best
of everything should go to Bull W.B. (Hampton) : Yes,
G. H. Reid was counsel for The Bulletin in the Billie
Barlow case, and a very good counsel, too. The
Bulletin would cheerfully recommend G. H. Reid
as a barrister whenever a client wants to make
fun of the other side. (This is not an advt.....
Cheetah : It was observed thousands of years ago that
the clean-shaven man needs to be either of a candid dis-
position or of an excellent skill in lying. Hair around the
mouth helps much to disguise dissimulation D.A.S. :
Subject too trifling ; treatment shows a glimpse of promise.
... .Taradale : Shop folly is a worn theme ; glad to hear
from you again... .Fleet: Very loose and whirly verse....
Drill: Par may do ; verse too old a theme Moonta: A
large, dreary poem about rags and failure, and the dying
fire, and broken boots, and such like .. .G. Gain: Not
very hopeful Max W. : “Traveller Who Died” rather
long for interest Rad : “ Sis ”is good. Please always
put name and address on copy for convenience in making
payment Constant Reader: Don’t think so ; his son
has no recollection of W. B. Dailey having ever been an
acting Judge E.W.D. : But we didn’t say that St.
Andrew’s cross must be in a blue field, but that when it is
so placed it is the Scottish national flag... .J.M.W. :It
has a good swing, but the rhyme and metre slump towards
end... .Enmore : Some spirit, but unequal and faulty in
syntax Geo. R. : Bushman verse is so common that it
needs to be first quality. Yours is about third....
Wyenna: Weak and ungrammatical. Don’t remember
the other ... Hamer : Insurances of ships and of lives are
totally different matters. Your pars, as a rule, are too
long drawn out Atrox :It is not atrocious, but gentle
and lamblike ; too much so, to our taste Bully : The
deliberate conviction of this office is that you get quite
enough beef for your money Mark M. : “Forecast”
copy seldom of use. Your unsuitable consignment cost
lid. in deficient postage F.C. : An excellent moral, but
it’s almost certain that the cable is a fake or a mistake.
Cotton is not a perishable product. Why shouldn’t the
operators store, if they wish to corner? W.J.B. : Glad
to get your defence of Vic. Railway Commissioner Tait;
will keep facts in mind... .M.L.D. : First article hasn’t
meat enough. Unless others are much better, no use
sending Maurice B. : Hardly interest enough
No Name: “Smoke Oh” too remarkable.. ..Edelweiss :
Jokes cumbrous... .R.N.C. : Too “small and early” for
The Bulletin. Send something with blood in it
H. : Too labored W.E. : Not up Cockney: Poem
rubbish ; pars filth.... J.W.T. : Didn’t throw any slurs on
the Hang Gong family. Simply said young Hang now
wears creased pants. Still we’ll withdraw the creases if
you like Tom G. : Not bad, as a story, but hopeless as
a poem A.E.N.: An unsatisfactory piece of work....
Booda : Savors too much of personal animus Peri-
winkle : The effort to be funny is too obvious The
Crank: You don’t drive into acceptance A.J.H.R. :
Good theme, but treatment not up A.M. : Don’t like
parodies; the mere fact of writing a parody suggests lack of
imagination... .Simon: Humor feeble in places....
L.E.G. : Just fails M.S. : Merely nasty A.M.B. : To
pay poundage for mails is not “ to pay a subsidy,” but to
pay for a definite service rendered. Still The Bulletin
wouldn’t favor paying even poundage to any nigger-
emploving steamship co. if it can be avoided.... Unsui-
table :-Jackerini, W.J.S., Kenneth, D.R. Bendemer,
Arthur Y.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
X. : One suggestion loathsome; others humorless.. .
Sibi : Obliteration drawing shows some promise...
Unsuitable. —Will Mac., H.G.N.
“ Nymsie ” tells this as a matter of fact,
and not a Xmas dream :
Found a surprise in store for me on the opening of the
fishing season on the Big Trickle. On my favorite sand-
bank, on an almost bidden bend, I found a family camped,
clothed in savage simplicity. I burst in upon the com-
pany like a bolt from the blue, as they were indulging in
their afternoon sunbaths —father, ma, and six offspring,
three bonnie girls, eldest 16 ; boys aged 14, 10, and 7
respectively. The old man soon recovered his surprise,
and said that I wasn’t trespassing—far from it. Fact was
he was indulging in a domestic experiment. He was a
civil servant on twelve months’ furlough. All his
brothers’ families had died young of chest troubles. He
wished to baulk Nemesis, and after nine months’ existence
out-back he asked me for my opinion.
Modesty forbade me dwelling on the comely proportions
of his better three-quarters ; but I said he looked likely
to outlive Methuselah. He said the chilly weather had
lingered late this season, yet none of thekidshad coughed
once. At home in a Melbourne suburb, he spent night
after night experimenting on them with cough-quenchers
without result; but an existence in the open air had
hardened them, tent life gave them zest for their dreams ;
and natural out-door exercises made the flour-bag the
only thing suffering from consumption. Of course they
wore clothes, but of the lightest, when venturing beyond
the sand-patch, or when the weather was cold ;
and they slept without covering in their tents. They
had left medicines and the encumbrances of civilisa-
tion behind. They got what vegetables they could from
Codville, five miles away, flour and other simple stores
likewise. For meat or fowl they levied on the bush, and
sang the praises of parrot pie and the despised bunny.
Wild honey was at hand in return for the graft of getting
it; a mattress of eucalyptus leaves perfumed their sleep-
ing tents. A ’cute Irish terrier, which acted as snake-
catcher and flea-trap, was their sentinel.
The kiddies were pictures, and as modest as baby
lizards. The girls were comely, however, and well devel-
oped. The boys were small Sandows, and freckled from
brow to toes. So pleased was the old man with the ex-
periment that he intended buying a secluded nook some-
where on the Trickle, and fencing it in, as a permanent
abode of nudity.
At meals the' family was robed sparingly. Before I left
the situation became quite familiar to me. Before part-
ing I asked the mother of the family for her opinion on
the subject. All her thoughts centred on the children.
“You see how sturdy they are? Well, when we first
came here their hollow-chested appearance, especially of
the younger boys and girls, used to make me shudder.
See them now ” —here she displayed the bosoms of her
10-year-old daughter—“ aren’t they a picture ?”
HE LAUGHS BEST WHO LAUGHS LAST.
CASSIDY (crawling through the fence): “Well,
I’ve bate the cow all right, but where’s Grogan
T'm thinkin ’ I have the laugh on him.”
“ Curlew ” supplies a tale of sin :
The story as told of a prominent Vic. Federal politician
and his gardener. The former has a wicked relic of old
digging days in his habit of going off periodically on a
wild and fearsome burst, what time clients hang round
his office and whisper of how his devotion to the public
interest makes him neglect his business. On one of the
latest disappearances his wife sent his gardener, a
Rechabite of 20 years’ standing, to rescue him from
Bacchus in his favorite haunts. Seemingly, the Rechabite
found him ; anyhow, at 3 a.m., all distinctions of rank
and station were obliterated, and a gardener and a
politician, each wearing the other’s hat, crashed against
the front door, and called the politician’s wife “Maria”
indiscriminately. The gardener left next day, after a
stormy interview—at least, the lady did the storm while
the crushed horticulturist tried to cool his head against
the wall.
Get what has been known for 70 years.
Don’t be deceived. Get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Don’t be fooled ! Ask for, and make sure you get,
the real Wolfe’s Schnapps. Look for the name.*
Dr. Rentoul, of England, says something
about lunatics which might commend itself to the
economical soul of Bent:—
In oar efforts to check suicide by protecting and con-
trolling would-be suicides, in permitting many to beget a
tainted offspring, in spending vast sums upon the upkeep
of the unfit—do we not in reality actively support the
survival of the unfit ? So many of the insane are afflicted
with a suicidal tendency, that suicide is evidently one of
Nature’s methods of extinguishing the unfit. If we dick
not thwart her, Nature would presently reduce the ranks
of lunatics so greatly that we could close up half at least
our asylums.


Says the Sydney D.T.: —“No
amount of academical study is
sufficient to equip a doctor for
taking charge of a serious case.
Nothing but hard experience
gained at the bedsides of the sick
can impart the knowledge aiyj
skill which are necessary, for
actual practice.”
Experienced Practitioner (contemplating well-stocked graveyard) : “How true!”
“ Experience proves that-most women have no
confidence in women doctors, and insist upon
calling in a male practitioner.”
Now The Bulletin has no such foolish preju-
dices If it were “took bad” to-morrow'it
would not hesitate to call in the youngest
female practitioner in the business. ~~
ONE OBJECTION TO LADY DOCTORS
Lady Doctor “Show me your tongue! (Aside)
Sir •««* o£
The Sydney Hospital authorities
persist in refusing to appoint lady
doctors to the staff. They argue
that male and female sawbones
would be “embarrassed in the per-
formance of professional duties'
when in each other's presence. ”
There should be no difficulty, it seems to The
Bulletin. A screen might be provided in the
operating room,
behind which ultra
modest old baldheads
could do their blush-
ing, and need not look if
they didn’t want to.
“LOOK AT VICTORIA!’’
Men and women practitioners work side by side
in the Melbourne and Adelaide Hospitals without
ahy false shame.
Away with these narrow-minded sex distinctions!
l HB Bulletin looks forward to a golden age when
there will ha not only female doctors in our hospi-
©ale sairey. Gamps in family practice.
ANOTHER REASON.
Hospital Nurse : - Avaunt ! I’ll brook no rival here > ”
kp ® Ut C °" fair OMt For the present'
THE SYDNEY HOSPITAL AND FEMALE DOCTORS.


"Over Itftte children
Cfliern.Aafb-eJ-fno) af Mildur* -h, Smv
• Corsnye- " on
lo'T'of- goes ° tt ’^^ we
sea Ho re ».Son W I)J in'tiTmo A^A ll *
l rif*. of-
i+XbJe Job
IdtereStW Sj>eclaitor — fall o.
goesW my Scarify — oul^t r '
Soring our QftgeK-.
*v
tfuA 1 1
St: -*££ zz%-jh*~
jf tra-J ■ /
'Stvlk (kui7 «.%«slii»g «'*'■’
+ ,.j ; _-n_n foKfA4)r !•
Sir fjor^ce
well Ktfown n^>
, oVer otic Pi
jjr'ejen'tsd^ o ' l "bowels >N
f fj*/e been used by bis I
Khb Wife- h'S m4« l ' oir biwflf |
w urn
CotjneotTon w\nj i
\ Cbpwe'T reeling
lie W Yestfcr'dvf Vet 'Y deep
%t bnsjj -Jure*.
fCei«i 'to Iceberg Iwi^l—>
V\V|! vta* o>uM I
m ot~ * P I ~,
but" b*^ili-l»Kc yow.
a \fe\M VcuLjbMs. ifo -o
cAi f <n /' ~A<.
k> k. tvl A. 4tt4 ffv 5o C*^^e^rfe-c
FIERY THOUGHTS FROM MELBOURNE.


BIRTHDAY or WEDDING PRESENTS!
Important to YOU. We are
quite unequalled in HIGH
VALUES and LOW PRICES.
A. SAUNDER 3.
Ladies’ Crocodile Leather PURSE and
CARD CASE Combined. Pure
Silver Mounts and Lock, 20s.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s Od, 10s Gd,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERiS.
Ladl es Pure Silver-backed HAIR BRUSH, Extra Long
White Drawn Bristles, in Silk-lined Case, 30s.
Other Styles with Comb, 15s 6d, 21s, 255.
Milmmlm
m
m
m
!SL£
A. SAUNDEH3.
Solid Silver Boudoir CLOCK, los Cd.
Other Style 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver-mounted Cut Glass TOHLET
, in Silk-lined Case, 30s. Special Value.
Km
S*l!
■
B
m
si
E" g
A. SAUNDEE3.
Gent.’s CIGArt CASE, CrocodiU
I.eather, Pure Silver
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s Cd,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Solid Silver, comprising
7 Pieces, in Silk-lined Case, £2.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355.
We Offer You
every advantage
as to QUALITY,
STYLE
and LOWNESS of
PRICE. Buying for
Spot Cash DIRECT
enables us to
give you unequalled
values. We stock
only
The Best.
tetta
mg.
weS:
igsw*
mHuaiMilUUiiilUlimiWniHUUilltatU^M^U^iUmiulUMWUlUllMUll^
A. SAUNDERS.
I J ure Silver-mounted TOILET SET, Ilairpin
und Pomade Box, in Silk-lined Case,
Holder, Scent Bottle,
£2 10s. Larger Size,
Puff Box,
£3 10s.
Look
Ahead
for the selection
of a suitable
Present. Ciur
Illustrated
Catalogue, showing
Newest Designs,
will interest you.
We post it FREE.
Write for it
r
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver SHAVING COM-
PANION, in Silk-lined Morocco Leather
Cass, £3. Without Tube, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERI3.
Latest Style Morocco Leather PURSE BAG,
(Silver Chain Handle, 12s 6d. Other Styles,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
Solid
10s 6d,
A. SAUNDEKiS.
1 ure Silver-mounted Swan
(PIN CUSHION, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, Is 6d, 2s 3d
3s 6d, 4s <■'}
A. SAUNDEuIj.
Ladies’ Solid Silver SEWING
COMPANION, 7s 6d.
Similar Styles, 15s 6d,
18s 6d.
A. SAUNDERI3.
Solid Oak WRITING CABINET, with Shield for
Inscription, 30s. Morocco-covered, 255.
A. SAUNDERI3.
Coronation PIN CUSHION,
Solid Silver, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, ■ 5s Gd, 7s Gd,
10s 6d.
Solid ISilver-mounted Hob-
nail Cut Glass PUFF BOX,
Embossed,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s Gd. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Egg and Wishbone PIN CUSHION, Pure Silver-plated,
\ elvet Top, 7s 6d. Similar Styles, with Ring Tray,
10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERI3.
Solid Silver-backed HAIR BRUSH, Extra Long White Bristles
15s Gd. Juvenile Size, 10s 6d. Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 1/s.'
6d, 20s, 255, 80s, 40s.
O
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady s or Gent.’s TRAVELLING BAG, Silk-lined, Fitted with Every
Convenience. Nickel Fittings—Lady’s, £4; Gent.’s, £4 ss‘
Sliver Fittings—Lady’s, £4 10s; Gent.’s, £5 10s to £l5.
Our Wedding Present Department
IS A SPECIAL FEATURE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver TOILET SET, comprising 2 Hair Brushes, Hat anu Cloth
Brush, Mirror, Glove Stretcher, and Complete Manicure Set, Handsomely
Embossed, £io 10s. Full Size, £25, Smaller. £lO, £l2 10s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
GLOVE BOX, Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely Chased
and Embossed, Silk-lined, Size 12x6, £3. With
Handkerchief Box to Match, £3, or £5 10s pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Gent.’s, 2 Silver MILITARY ILVIR BRUSHES,
CLOTH BRUSH, HAT BRUSH, and COMB, Beau-
tifully Chased, in Sillc-lined Case, £5. Other
Styles, £5 10s, £6»
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver-mounted Morocco Leather SHAVING
TIDY and MIRROR, 255. Similar Styles, Iss,
20s, 30s.
A. SAUNDER/3.
Steel Bead CHATELAINE
BAG, 6s fid.
Similar Styles, with Small
Purse Inside, 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver 2 HAIR BRUSHES and COMB,
in Silk-lined Leather Case, £3 10s. Similar
Styles, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hand-
pierced Head SALTS,
20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SMOKER’S COMPANION, comprising?
Cigarette Case, Match Box, and Cigar Holder,
in Silk-lined Case, 455.
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY'S LEADING
JEWELLER AND OPTICIAN,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
QEORGE-STREET.
Opposite
RAILWAY
STATION


Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors
t
To His Majesty
The King.
MOIR’S
11 MAYFAIR”
Jelly Crystals
Highly Flavored and Transparent.
SPECIALLY RECOMMENDED.
New Season’s
Herrings in
Tomato Sauce
Half the price of Salmon.
“ MOIR’S ” pack only.
Specially Selected Fish
Insist on having “ MOIR’S.”
Sydney Agency: 5 Macquarie Place-
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
ţ
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate'y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
t£T BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. ~m
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous
KS
Farms of
South Africa.
Black,White,
Cream and
Black tipped
with White.
5/-
the Bunch,
Post Free.
Two Superior Black Tips
Length 10 inches.
No costume is complete
without a feather boa.
Choice Natural Boas, 30/-, 42/- Length lj yards.
Write to-day. Semi postal notes.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. STRAND ARCADE, PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne. Illustrated Price List Post Free.
Mention The Bulletin.
NERVES
We aro truly a bundle of nerves . Therefore never
neglect the nervous system . Nourish it constantly.
Keep it in perfect order, and physical ailments will
be rare indeed .
NEURALGIA
Remarkable Testimony.
Mr. John Shepherd, of Rand wick, writes :
I was suffering from acute neuralgia down the
veins of the neck and over the whole head and
face. My mouth was much swollen. lam
subject to these attacks, and was six weeks
under a doctor.
After commencing to take “ FISHER’S ”
Phospherine I had immediate relief, and in
one day was cured ; there only remained a
slight weakness from the excessive pain I had
endured.
Whatever is the matter with me in the
future I will always use “ FISHER’S ”
Fhospherine, for it is a most wonderful
MEDICINE and NERVE TONIC.
OVER WOO BOTTLES
SOLD A WEEK.
“Fishery ’ FHOSPHERinE
THE MARVELLOUS NERVE TONIC.
TRAM GUARDS and DRIVERS
USE IT EREELY.
An Infallible Cure for Headache
and Brain Fag.
/tgrlT TAKES AWAY A SOUR TASTE
IN THE MOUTH, AND MAKES THE
BREATH SWEET AND PLEASANT,
WHEN TAKEN HALF AN HOUR
BEFORE BREAKFAST.
r
:=
A
A
rw
A Human Nerve Skeleton.
A MARVELLOUS NERVE MAP.
A picture of this nerve chart has been sent
to the Museum of Medical Curiosities at
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London, and the creator
of the chart has been congratulated by the
great surgeons of London on having built up
one of the most marvellous anatomical struc-
tures of the age.
INDIGESTION.
p/ve Drops in Water half-an-hour after each meal is the greatest aid to
digestion known. It also acts very slightly upon the bowels.
AN IDEAL TONIC AND MEDICINE FOR THE SULTRY SUMMER WEATHER.
A GRAND TESTIMONIAL.
Mr. THOMAS FORSYTH, of Ashfield, writes, and declares on oath, the following
I suffered from acute inflammation of the stomach, with a burning pain. My tongue
got a thick coating over it, and I constantly suffered from nausea. Why, I used to be almost
constantly vomiting. I consulted two doctors in Ashfield for years without getting relief.
But in three weeks FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE completely cured me. lam Noble Grand
for the Loyal Ashfield M.U.0.0.F. I have been in the Lodge for 18 years Most of the
members know of my illness. Five to ten drops of FISHERS PHOSPHERIISE always
takes away a sour taste in the mouth, and keeps my stomach m regular order. Let everyone
know of my case.
INSIST UPON BEING SERVED WITH “FISHER’S.” IF YOU CANNOT GET IT
AT ONE SHOP, GO TO ANOTHER.
All Chemists, Is ; Four Times the Quantity, 2s 6d.
Obtainable at Pattinson and Co.’s (all Shops), Washington H. Soul and Co., and Everywhere.
POST FREE from the
rianufacturing
Pharmacy:
FISHER & GO.
337 GEORGE STREET, opposite General Post Office, SYDNEY,
Chemists and
Druggists,
THE LAST OF SIX.
Price 6dL. ;
Post Free
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ Alba ”: Watched an insurance canvasser
coming out of church, t’other Sunday. He pocketed his
hymn-book suddenly and dashed to the assistance of
Casey who was trying to corner a mule-headed horse in
the paddock. Passing down the road he vaulted a paling
fence, ran 300 yards to a well where Mrs. Cowmelon was
drawing water, and carried both buckets up to the house,
and if it hadn’t been Sunday would have put in half-an-
hour at the w'ood-heap. He will work all night round a
bush fire slogging the face of Sheol with a huge leather
clapper (gratis), and the women wait for him at the
bottom of the hill and pass him the heavy, milk-arrowroot
baby to carry. Don’t know what he makes out of insur-
ance, but he is the most grief-stricken man who attends
the local funerals.
*’*■**
““ Ah Snik ”*: For vain tricks and dark ways the
Chinee is not peculiar. What about the racecourse game
that is “ all so fair that the monkey don’t care ? ” In this
little caper numbered metal plates are handed round at a
shilling each, and a monkey turns a cylinder and picks
out a numbered marble. The man calls out the number
on the marble, or he may call any other number, for
Jacko probably hasn’t read it, and, if he had, he w-ould
most likely think twice before branding his master as a
liar and risking his billet. The day you see an advertise-
ment to the effect that an honest, respectable single
monkey, without encumbrance, wants a billet, you may
know that the animal with the tail has at last protested
against the animal with the unconvincing narrative read-
ing out the wrong number so that his “ pal ” may take
the pool, but that advertisement seems as if it would
never happen.
*
A Casterton (Vic.) storekeeper lately announced
a sale of his landed property in this vigorous fashion
“ When the DEVIL or the BANK pushes you, what
is the result? The Auctioneer and then— MISERY.
My blossom is blighted ; my leaf is withered ; the Orb
of my day has gone down upon the dreary scene;
and—and, in short, I am for ever FLOORED if I
cannot get help by selling my Stock, &c. Friends,
Neighbors, and Comrades, come and help a lame DOG
over a stile by giving me your help at this GIGANTIC
SALE, and your petitioner will for ever PRAY.”
•4* '* « *
Two small boys distinguished themselves lately
in a Tas. township. One of them was employed in a
store, and was set to work sorting rabbit skins. He sorted
out most of the heaviest pelts and passed them through a
side door to his brother, who took them through the front
entrance and sold them over the counter. The storeman
promptly carried them in to the sorter, who industriously
handed them out to his relation, who re-sold them to their
owner. By midday the skins were all there—the boys
were not.
* ■» * *
“Wurrym”: Asked a Perth (W.A.) lady m
the old clo’ trade what became of the best of the suits and
dresses she bought. She said, “We clobber them up, and
send them to Isvdney.” She went on to explain that
clobbering included putting in new lining where neces-
sary cleaning, press'ng, &c. In Sydney there are firms
that do cheap tailoring and work these clobbered goods
off as “suit made for gentleman who couldn’t pay cash,
sir and as we only do a cash business,” &c., &c. Princi-
pal buyers are bank clerks and civil servants, “gents
what have to keep up appearances, you know, mister.”
A S. Aus. valuator lately gave, m the Adelaide
Register, an instance of the average farmer’s dealings
with the Government. The writer (who gave his name)
was instructed to obtain a loan of £6OO on 500 acres. He
gave a professional valuation of £7 10s. an acre, and con-
fidently went to get the money. But the intending
lender had got hold of a statutory declaration made by
the farmer only two years before, when he wanted (and
had) his assessment for land-tax reduced; and this
affirmed that the land was not worth more than £1 per
acre. So the proposed business transaction fell through
into the bottomless, unfinancial pit. A few years ago a
Sydney valuator fell into a worse pit than that. He was
swearing glibly to the value —the very high value—of
some land that the State proposed to resume, when he
was confronted by the fact that he had sworn only a few
months before that the same land was worth only about
half the amount. That was when the State was collecting
probate duty on the land. Apparently it was either a
case of perjury and swindle over the probate or perjury
and attempted swindle over the resumption, but the
valuator was not at all abashed. He explained that, as a
matter of course, circumstances altered valuations. The
court took it philosophically ; it was so accustomed to
commercial morality that a prosecution for perjury
wasn’t even suggested.
* • * *
Sapient legislators will probably give Sydney’s
existing suburbs a thorough Building Act when there’s no
more open land to auction. Allotments of 30 and 25 and
even 20ft. frontage are now regularly knocked down to
the unfortunate class which wants to dwell in its own
dog-kennel. When these divisions are built on there will
be little chance for health or comfort, and very little for
a Building Act to do.
» * « *
“ J.F.D.” : Once interviewed a fortune-teller,
who, evidently in a humorous vein, informed me that I
would die that day month. I told an inventive room
mate, who propounded a scheme to get even with the
seer. The day after the date fixed for my death, my
mate, armed with„a farewell note from me to my mother,
wherein the prophecy and the prophet’s name were men-
tioned, waited on the seer, and, after reading' the letter to
him, said that I had died as predicted, and he was then on
his way to the police station to give information against
the man who had scared me to death. The fortune-teller
gave him a sovereign and a free reading if he would let
him burn the letter in his office fire, and we had a
glorious night. He told my mate that he would live till
he was 119 years old.
; * * *
Victoria levies a quaint anomaly called a local
rate on such of its new railways as don’t pay, apparently
with the intention of killing whatever chance they may
possess of ultimately becoming payable. T’other day
Commissioner Tait admitted that he charged sd. a case
to carry Sydney fruit to Melbourne, ana levied 2s. to
hump the same case out to Greensborough (13 miles) or
to Eltham (15 miles). #
Complaints are becoming very frequent from
Tasmanian apple exporters that American shippers are
taking the cream of the English business. The Apple
Congress at St. Louis (U.8.A.) decided that a bushel case
must contain 2646 cubic inches. Tasmanian standard
case contains only 2548 cubic inches ; further, most cases
shipped are below standard when green, and still more so
when landed in Fogland. That doesn’t help the Tas-
manians’ reputation for honesty.
* * * •
“ Commoner ” : Re Luther Burbank’s plumcot
and tomato-potato (B. l/9/’O4), the U.S.A., thanks to the
impetus given by State Free Agricultural Colleges, High
Schools and Experimental Bureaus, is producing many
new fruits. “ VVeoberS,” and “ swingles,” and “ tangelos ”
are recent successes in plant-breeding by the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture. The first two are hybrids of the
Florida sweet orange and Japanese hedge-orange, and are
valuable because they can withstand the great enemy of
the American orange-grower—frost. Tangelos are a tan-
ger.ne orange-pomelo (a grape fruit) cross, and enduring
popularity is foretold. The U.S.A. has added millions of
wealth to agricultural pursuits by developing new plants
especially suited to American conditions. Some of them
will do well in Australia ; but, to obtain the best results,
we must not only be appropriators, but investigators and
experimentors. This branch of Governmental action is a
type of socialism our Federal authorities should take up
on the slightest provocation.
• * * *
“ Steve ” : Reading the evidence given to the
Victorian Butter Commission brings up in my memory a
one-time acquaintance who held the managership of the
Cowchasers’ Butter Faking and Produce Prigging Co.,
Limited. His salary was £lO a week, and for a year he
lived well up to it. Then he secured an interest in a couple
of race quadrupeds, became a lover of the young and
beautiful, and started buying into a lot of private bars.
He had a cab always at hand, and unless you
felt like driving down to see Flossie or Tottie or Ruby to
have a good time, it was necessary to dodge him and to
dodge hard. It came to it that the accountant used to
have to get a cab and hunt round the bars to get him to
sign cheques. But one day he fell out of work,
and the accountant gave up his position to help
him look for another job. Nearly £3OOO was
involved. “ Wonder they didn’t send you up,” I re-
marked over some cheap beer in a threepenny bar.
This was some months afterwards. He pushed his frayed
cuffs out of sight and laughed. “Send me up! Not
much ! I should have been safe for life with them, but
you know a fair thing’s a fair thing, and I did make it too
strong. But they daren’t make trouble. 1 knew too
much, and it might have come out, and then there would
have been a picturesque dock-full of directors. Send me
up ! Why a couple of them have promised to get me
into a Government billet.” When Carruthers appoints
a Butter Commission I will hunt up that ex-manager and
try and induce him to give his views on account sales,
freight, charges, rebates, and things in general. I know
in which public-house to look for him.
* » * *
Sydney press is not very keen on local history.
Sydney Maid recently gave Chisholm’s house in George-
street as being the first head office of the Bank of New
South Wales. As a matter of fact, the first offices of the
bank were in Macquarie-place, where Bird and Co. now
are, a house rented from Mrs. Mary Reibey. That was in
1817. The bank removed to George-street, where Bradley’s
auction room is, in 1823. Again, a correspondent writes,
giving the name of the original directors, including
William Charles Wentworth. That young gentleman was
then at Cambridge learning law. It was D’Arcy Went-
worth, his father, who was on the first directorate. E.
S. Hall was the first secretary, one of the conditions of
his engagement being that he should always sleep on the
premises and never be out of Sydney after nightfall.
Macquarie’s secretary, J. T. Campbell, was the first presi-
dent. The institution was known by “ clean people ” as
“The Convicts’ Bank.”
• » » •
A man filed his schedule in southern M.L.
lately, and one angry creditor was a Scotchman who put
in a claim for a shilling he had lent bankrupt to buy two
drinks with.
* * * •*
North Queensland is getting a respect for the
speckled banana, 16 in a bag for sixpence. The export
in 1903 ran to about 45,000 tons, and it takes a lot
of speckled bananas to weigh a ton. Past year’s out-
put from Geraldton alone was about 25,000 bunches a
week ; and for the whole of N.Q. the crop should be
worth something like £175,000.
* * « •
“M.E.8.” : Whenever I hear that Senator
Dobson has addressed another meeting of the Toorak
Tabby Club, and informed its purring members that his
clique are the people’s. “ natural, just, and honorable
leaders,” I think of what happened to me in the Flyspeck
when one Dobson was Chief Justice and Lieut.-Governor,
and this Dobson was Premier, and junior Dobsons were
most other things. Was employed by a club whose secre-
tary prevailed on me to let my wages run on, as he ex-
pected to win a seat in Parliament. Coming from Vic., I
presumed that if the thing went bung wages at least
would be paid in full, and the visible assets seemed to fill
the bill. Then the sec. didn’t win his seat, the club
failed, and a snorting flunkey (me) failed to get his £26
wages ; for under the equitable laws of the people’s just,
natural, and honorable leaders rent and gas ranked as
preferential debts, and were paid in full, and the servant’s
wages came in with the brewer. Haven’t heard for
certain, but suppose by now that the equitable law' has
been somewhat broadened to allow the brewer to come in
with the landlord and the gas co.
JUGGERNAUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Can’t you hear the trolley humming
On the wires so stiff and taut ?
“ We’re the great Electric Jigger—
Jigger—Jigger—Juggernaut.”
With a clang of bells we’re coming.
Clear the road 1 Oh, clear the road 1
Down the shining track a-bowling,
Can’t you hear the motors howling
In the labor of their load ?
With a scream of bells we’re coming,
And God help you if you’re caught
By the Automatic Jigger—
Jigger—Jigger—Juggernaut 1
If you feel inclined to argue,
Better cut it pretty short,
For we’re hell and gore and blazes ;
We’re the howling Juggernaut.
And the wheels are bound to mark you
As they grind you on the track,
Till your mother wouldn’t know you ;
And the gentle breeze would blow you
As you lie there on your back,
The cadenzas of our bell-calls
Crying angrily and short,
“ Go to blazes —blazes —blazes ;
We’re the Jigger—Juggernaut!”
’Tis a reckless, dashing chorus,
With a fearsome cadence fraught
To the white and Chow and nigger—
“ We’re the Jigger—Juggernaut.”
Should the faithful kneel before us,
As they did in Hindustan,
We’d accept their kind oblation,
And, a God of Devastation,
We would slay them to a man.
Bells and brakes and wheels in chorus
Would exclaim that they were naught
In the presence of the Jigger—
The Electric Juggernaut.
ML
We’ve a skull upon our apron,
And some cross-bones that were caught
By the Jigger—Jigger—Jigger-
Jigger—J ugger—Juggernaut.
If you people would escape, run ;
Still, we’re bound to get you soon—
Oh, you fat men I —waddle ! WADDLE 1
Or the great magnetic god’ll
Strike you like a mad typhoon,
And your skull adorn the apron
(Oh, we really like your sort 1)
Of the Great Galvanic Jigger—
Jigger—Jigger—J uggernaut.
With a great Time-burden laden,
By the line inspectors taught,
We are hurling on our Jigger—
Jigger—Jigger—J uggernaut.
Stand aside, oh gentle maiden !
Lest your dainty feet we mar ;
Regulate your moonlight roaming,
Lest we slay you in the gloaming,
And transfer you to a star.
Trust your lover, lofelyyiiaiden
He’ll protect; if not, fie ought
To be slain as dead as Moses
By the Jigger—Juggernaut.
Can’t you hear the trolley screaming
On the wires so hard and taut ?
We’re the Great Electric Jigger—
We’re the Jigger—Juggernaut.
Do not wander, idly dreaming,
Clear the road ! Oh, clear the road 1
Drowsy drunkard, cease your prowling !
Can’t you hear our motors howling
In the labor of their load !
Here we come with bells a-screaming,
And you’ll know it if you’re caught
By the Great Galvanic Jigger—
By the Mad Magnetic Jigger—
The Electric Giant Jigger—
Jigger—Jigger—Juggernaut.
M.D.
WILL LAWSON.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
UCHANAN WHISKY.
ŧ
GrO TO BCiJLI,.
HiOI.AM l> for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74- Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalog ue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinet or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s, £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, S9C FAUBY, St. Martin, Paris, France.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A list mi in.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Said that Yic. Premier Bent’s recently
developed Sabbatarianism is due to the fact that
he is courting a parson’s daughter.
The other day, a little Melb. boy, while
throwing a dog into the water, lost his balance;
fell in, and was drowned. When Premier Reid
reads of this —well, he’ll never overbalance himself
by trying to wet his Dry Dog.
Under Vic.’s ’Murkan Railway Com-
missioner, lighting costs less than £9OOO per
annum, whereas ten years ago it cost £28,000. But
is it because so much is done in the dark now that
Bent is in power ?
J. C. Watson, lecturing on Socialism the
other day, argued that it was a good thing, but
not to be taken all at once. And Sydney D.T.
has been ever since furiously arguing that this was
an essentially illogical attitude, and that no man
can consistently profess a liking for a mutton
chop unless he is prepared to eat a flock of sheep,
wool, flesh and trotters, at one meal.
Dr. Jim to an English interviewer
“ There is no Chinese trouble in South Africa ;
there is a Chinese success.” Yes and a “Chinese
success ” spells a frightful British failure.
The complaint that Chinese are getting
control of Government leases of land in the
sugar districts of Queensland should receive
the earnest attention of Premier Morgan. Not a
foot of Australian land should be liable to become
the leasehold or freehold of a foreigner.
The Trusts made an attack upon the very
foundations of American liberty last year by
cornering the supply of Thanksgiving turkeys.
From the institution of this Yankee festival in
1620 the essential of its celebration has been a
turkey. The Trust put the price up to 24 cents a
lb. last “fall.” and many families had to content
themselves with goose, etc.
Apparently Vic. Premier Bent believes he
is now in politics for the remainder of his days.
When Tommy, a few years ago, fell from politics
and the boomsters’ world, he went away to Port
Fairy, took up a dairy farm, gradually recovered
some of his lost fortune, and learned to take his
hat off to a cow. He has now announced his
intention of selling out his farm at Port Fairy.
COMFORTABLY IN RECESS.
This hot weather a fortune awaits the man
who could tell intelligent Australians how not to
be angry when reading things like this in the
daily papers :
It would appear that a number of Australians some
time ago found their way to the Straits Settlements in
search of work, and the circumstance has led the Colonial
Secretary of the Straits Settlements to communicate with
the Victorian Minister for Labor on the subject.
Australia is a land with tens of millions of fertile
acres awaiting the plough, with tens of millions’
worth of imports which could be locally manu-
factured, and the Australian in search of a crust
has to go to jostle with the colored trash of the
tropical country where Sultan Jackhore came
from!
Politics will be interesting in Brisbane
during the next few weeks. In November the
Leg. Council threw out the equal franchise Bill on
the excuse that it was not accompanied by a
machinery Bill. Premier Morgan now calls a
special meeting of Parliament to repass the
measure with a machinery Bill, and see what the
Council will do. A prominent Councillor forecasts
that the Council will again reject the measure.
Morgan should then swamp, and swamp hard, and
finally.
That foolish N.S. W. politician, Eden
George, who says that the Arbitration Act is
responsible for the introduction of machinery
into N.S.W. coal mines, should know that the
English colliery proprietors threatened to introduce
machinery into their pits whenever the colliers
asked for any betterment—refuge places in the
mines, better ventilation, payment by weight, the
abolition of the Tommy Slop or truck system, and
Eayment at the pit offices instead of in public-
ouses.
The Women’s Liberal League presented
recently to Mrs. Molyneux Parkes a desk
and chair, and a gold bangle set with pearls and
opals. A Mrs. MTvinnon wept profusely because
“ women’s political education was received
from Labor demagogues who lived on the game’
a statement w+iich, to put it mildly, was not a
fact. 1 lien she hoped that the Liberal leagues would
raise enough money to send Mrs. Parkes through
the country on a lecturing tour ; in other words,
to enable that lady also “to live on the game.”
Ihe problem of Imperial defence is begin-
ning to worry London (writes a correspondent
from there). The suburb of the universe means
to treat Australia generously—so the more serious
organs state. The dear motherland will let us pay
extra taxes, all for our own good, and the “ depen-
dencies ” will have representatives in a Special
Council on one condition—that the motherland
must always retain the predominant voice. The
fundamental principle of this scheme of “mutual
sacrifice” is that Britain rules and her “depen-
dencies ” pay. England will sell our birthright to
herself for a mess of pottage, and will eat the
pottage.
Thomas Bent, of Brighton, has played a
low-down game on the pub-keepers of North
Melbourne. When recently an Arbitration Court
took steps to relieve the crowding of hotels in the
N. Melbourne district. Bent promised to pay
such compensation to the abolished drink vendors
as the Arbitration Court might prescribe. Then,
when the figures were fixed, Thomas turned round
and offered the retrenched publicans an undated
pro. note for 80 per cent, of the amounts judged
One of the obliterated pubs belonged
to Ben Kavanagh, a railway man who was not
sufficiently abject to Bent and Irvine in 1002;
and the compensation for closing down the place
was fixed at £llBO. It is alleged that the Govern-
ment professes an intention to be very reluctant
about paying anything at all to this striker, and
to make him “feel his position.”
“R.R.” : The whole truth with regard to
the scare that Germany is constructing in New
Guinea a naval base for the Pacific
seems to lie in the simple fact
that Germany has decided to
have the trade of its posses-
sions for itself, and is going
to get it, not through
cannons, but through
Customs. As there
is only an open
roadstead at
Herbertsliohe,
it was decided
to build a
wharf at Simp-
son’s Hafen,
10 miles away,
where there is
good shelter. The
jetty was started-
without proper survey,
and it will be neces-
sary to extend it a
thousand feet from
the shore in order to
get the desired five
fathoms of water.
The thing is evi-
dently being built
at the joint expense
of the Govt, and
the “Nordlloyd,”
and when completed
Simpson Hafen will
be a port of entrance
for the Archipelago,
so there will be nothing
secret about it. But
foreign vessels will have
to go down there and
pass the Customs; hence
the squeal.
The Australian
agricultural implement in-
dustry is threatened with
complete absorption by
American manufacturers.
At one time the Yankee
manufacturer only deluged
the land with reapers and
Hinders and gang ploughs ; now he
is coming on with harvesters and harrows as well.
At the beginning of the present harvesting season
one American firm sent out a couple of harvesters
copied from those constructed in Melbourne by
Messrs. Nicholson and Morrow. With the
machines the firm • sent a couple of first-class
mechanics, and these men have continu-
ously watched their harvesters at work. Now
they are off back to America with a number
of suggested improvements, and next year, if an
amended tariff doesn’t sav “No,” the Australian-
made harvester will be nowhere in the race with
its competitor from U.S.A.
John Darling, leader of S.A. Opposition,
whose whole platform consists of a series of shrieks
against socialism, presided at a meeting of share-
holders in the Mt. Monster Mining Co. the other
day, and made the announcement that the co.
had been granted labor exemption, but that the
State had lent the co. a valuable boring plant,
towards which the co. would not have to pay any-
thing. The great anti-socialist added that he
thought the action of the Government was to be
very highly commended—all through it had “ acted
in a very good spirit.” . Evidently this is John
Darling’s definition of anti-socialism : “A device
by which rich people are saved from paying calls.”
TRUE BILL.
“ You don’t expect me to go home with you in
that disgusting state ?”
“No’ ’ sgustin shtate, m’ dear; bootifoolish shtatc,
rn' dear. Jusht try one like it.”
From England :
The ridiculous lengths to which the left-handed
“ patriotism ” of Australians goes, exempli Bed in calling
a country at the Antipodes, which most of them have
never seem, “ home,” are justly satirised in your columns.
But besides its contemptible fulsomeness, it sometimes is
understood in exactly the opposite sense from that in-
tended. Thus the London Aloji.vixo Post, in quoting
from an Australian paper a paragraph on the encourage-
ment of “ Home Industries,” by which was meant British
as distinct from continental ones, naturally supposed it
referred to Australian domestic manufactures in contra-
distinction to all outside importations, and commented
accordingly.
Mr. John Norton is not the first M.L.A.
whom an aggrieved civil servant invited to waive
Parliamentary privileges. The fierce John
McElhone was asked by Geoffrey Eagar to come
outside and repeat what he had said in Parliament.
It was a meat contract case and McElhone charged
Treasury officials with sharing in a piece of alleged
plunder. Eagar, taking up the cudgels for the
service, “ invited the member to waive privilege.”
McElhone did not comply ; on the contrary he
complained in Parliament of the request as
“ insolence.”
Two years ago the white Victorian furni-
ture manufacturers denounced the Factories Act
and declared that it was ruining the industry.
Since then some of them have quarrelled over the
Chow cheap labor question, and a little of the
truth is creeping out. Henry Fallshaw was one
of the leaders of the movement against the Act.
Now he admits publicly that it is the Chow cheap
labor that has made such a mess of his business,
and suggests that the Chows be made to work in
a Government compound, so that their hours of
work may be properly regulated.
No stick is too dirty for some people to
throw from behind a hedge at the Labor dog.
“One of the inter-State shipping managers”
excuses the new combine in the Sydney dailies :
“ We have been harassed by legislation placed on
the statute book at the instance of Labor ’’—and
. the Navigation Bill was cited. Yet the Naviga-
tion Bill was drawn up an the interests of these very
Australian shipping companies, and one of its
objects was to give them practically a monopoly of
the inter-State carrying trade. A very grateful
person is this shipping manager behind the hedge.
J. C. Watson lectured for his friend, the
Rev. George Walters, the other day, and advocated
organisation to prevent industrial overlapping and
waste. Of course, Sydney Telegraph cursed
him fluently, and told him he talked rot. Just
then Australian shipping co.’s announced a com-
bine to prevent overlapping and waste; and of
course the D.T. had to bless the co.’s for doing
just the sort of thing that it cuised Watson on the
same page for advocating. The only difference
was that Watson wanted the people to enjoy the
benefit of the savings, while the co.’s collar the
savings for themselves.
An occasional irritant is the recurring
announcement that So-and-So, invariably a toy
soldier, has been appointed an extra A.D.C. to
the Governor-General. The Aide who isn’t extra
has next to nothing useful to do, and the extras
have nothing useful to do at all, their appoint-
ments being due to an apeing of the pomp and
glitter and cheap liquor and circus tickets of
Royalty. A recent Gazette announced that five
persons have been made extra A.’sD.C.—
five more minds turned from possible thoughts of
the defence of their country to a study of the
latest tricks in ballroom manners.
The Carruthers Government has cabled to
Europe for a sand-pump dredge forN.S.W., this
country of vast natural resources being still
unable (in Carruthers’opinion) to do a little job
like that. Heaven only knows what good vast
natural resources are to a country when its politi-
cal bosses spend what money they can raise by
taxes and loans to develop somebody else’s great
natural resources. And Carruthers didn’t even
have Bent’s excuse that he wanted the new
machine for a pattern, seeing that it is to be built
just like a dredge which is already disturbing the
prawn and the cat fish in N.S.W. harbors.
Cabled that the London newspapers have
loudly congratulated the Empire on last year’s
big increase in the prosperity of Canada. Ex
Elanations of the prosperity are unconsciously
umorous. The land sales in Manitoba were
twice as large as in 1903, and “one American
syndicate purchased 54,000 acres on the Canadian-
Pacific railway for settlement.” The Government
is disposing of the public estate to syndicates, and
devoting the proceeds to the encouragement of
immigration, which cheapens labor. Canada is
going to be a mighty prosperous country for large
landowners and a cold place for assisted immi-
grants.
“ C.C.” writes :
It makes the average manly man
wild to find the S.M. Herald—
now that it is too late—
spanking the feeble Car-
ruthers because he has
gone back on his
alleged princi-
pies. For weeks
before the last
election one
heard in
train,
tram
and pub.
the same
old diffi-
culty
raised :
“The
See-
O’Sullivan
crowd
must go-
but how can
a man vote
for such a
rotter as oily
Joseph?” But
for the Herald
nothing' would do
but Joe, and now !
Tne curse of Australian
politics is that so
many electors, who
would vote for real men
if they voted at all,
spend polling-day down
the harbor, leaving the
other fellows to vote ; and
the other fellows go out to
Randwick, thinking that the blokes who have gone to a
football match will be sure to vote ; and the blokes leave
it to the coves who are away shooting gill-birds or some-
thing. All the time the supporters of the “ good-man
candidates ” —the people who don’t take baths for fear
it should be sinful—are voting solidly; and at night,
when the fellows and the blokes and the coves return
from their various excursions, they gaze blankly at the
scoring-boards outside the daily paper offices.
Vic. Bakers and Millers Act is very defec-
tive. The act provides punishment for selling
lightweight bread, but leaves it optional for the
councils to prosecute; and as all fines go to the
State, while all the expense is thrown on the
councils, many of the latter, including Melbourne
City, let the Act slide.
The leader of the Opposition in the Hun-
garian Diet charges the Government with the
admirable offence of selling titles for hard cash.
Many Jews are Said to have paid as much as
£21,000 each for the title of Baron, and this is
seemingly regarded as an injustice to the old
Hungarian nobility. Democracy will welcome
every scheme for fattening the public revenue by
reducing hereditary titles to an absurdity.
“Nym”: Why don’t the sporting folk,
who evince so much concern about our fast-dimin-
ishing native fauna, ask the Vic. Government to
impose a tax on rod and gun, making any un-
licensed angler or shootist liable to a pretty stiff
penalty? The fees would enable a number of
reliable inspectors to be appointed, who could
patrol their several districts throughout the close
and open seasons ; and the system would do more
than a Reserve to protect native animals.
Though the High Court can’t sit in one
place often, because it has to roam all over Aus-
tralia in its effort to bring law to the door of
litigants, still an appeal to the Australian Court
means hanging up a case less than a fifth of the
average time taken in going to the English Privy
Council. The average period from date of notice
of appeal to date of High Court judgment is three
months and eleven days, whereas, during the five
years ended 1903, the approximate average period
for the Privy Council was one year and five and a
half months.
Westralia has at last two electorates out
of 50 in which the human female outnumbers the
human male. Even among the municipalities
there are only half-a-dozen where every Billjim
could have a Billjemima or Billjenny if he wanted
her; and where there are no municipalities the
proportions run down as low as nine females to
100 males, as in West Kimberley, for instance.
And it was like that long before the t’othersider
came. Even before Bigjohn ever dreamed of his
present greatness there was only female enough to
go three-fourths of the way round.
Hatter Storey (described unkindly once as
the man with 10,000 hats, and not enough brains
to fill one ”) has in some way taken Edward Terry’s
place in N.S.W. Assembly. Terry had his party
—his party of one—and he feasted the House in
the hope of getting recruits. Storey now is also
a party of one, posing as the “stern, unbending
lory”; but he doesn’t do any feasting—he only
throws his head back further than ever—so he
isn t as popular a joke as rich man Terry was.
Meantime, remembering that his neighbor Crick
was once passed over because he wasn’t “ respect-
able, the hatter is keeping himself under severe
discipline, and takes his party home before 10
every night and puts it to bed safely and soberly.
There is a reign of terror amongst the 300
employees of the Brisbane tramway syndicate.
Last week, they proposed to form a union, to be
ready for registration when Arbitration legislation
was passed (as the Government has promised); for
the men have grievances—against their 9J hours
day, and the 7s. fid. maximum pay to motormen.
The management was posted up in the details of
the movement by one of the men, and, next morn-
ing, sacked nine of the ringleaders on the spot.
Half the men were hot for a row, but the balance
their places would be filled if they went
out. Then, while the trouble was simmering, an
emissary told the men that, if they were humble
and apologetic, they would be re-engaged, and
they went right up into the hollow log.


Paling’s
Pianos will
stand all
climates.
They’re so
good and
cheap; be-
sides every
one carries
our well-
Known v?
guarantee.
Send for handsome
illustrated Cata-
logue, and don’t for-
get the Price List,
Post Free.
*
Paling^s,
33S George St.,
Sydney.
39
(JShe Genuine)
LIPP PIANO.
I*IPP PIANOS are tl\e lead*
ing' Pianos of German
Manufacture. They Have
been in use all over Aus-
tralia for over 4 O years—
long' enough to prove tHeir
merits.
PLEASE
NOTE.
Lipp Pianos Have been imi-
tated. If you want the
Genuine Lipp, you can pro-
cure same only at Paling’s.
We stocK five models of these
Celebrated Pianos.
Please remember we are tbe
absolute Sole Agents.
V?
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling' Co., Ltd..
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
If you can’t
afford to
pay cash
for a Piano
call or
write to us.
We’ll ex-
plain our
easy time
paymen t
system.
It’s worth
Knowing.
We are pleased to
see anyone at any
time and show our
Pianos.
Catalogues Free.
*
Paling^s,
338 Georg'e St.,
Sydney.
44
Tumour on the Spine and
Kidney Trouble
Removed by
VITADATIO
| Remarkable Recovery!
llth June, 1904.
Dear Sir,—About fifteen years ago my back was struck
by a piece of scaffolding’, which caused a severe bruise,
and eventually a tumour formed right on the spine. It
grew larger and larger. I saw my doctor, and he told me
that the growth would have to be cut out. I declined to
undergo the operation, and went on for some years, the
tumour steadily growing larger the while. Then I began
to suffer from weakness of the bladder and kidneys. I
was getting worse gradually, till blood commenced to
come away. 1 was very much alarmed, and when telling
a friend about it he strongly advised me to take VITA-
DATIO for the bladder and kidneys. I acted on his advice,
and after a time the bleeding - ceased, and I got quite well.
During the time I was taking VITADATIO I was greatly
surprised to find the tumour was getting smaller, until it
entirely disappeared. I took the remedy only for weak-
ness of bladder and kidneys, and never for a moment
thought that it would cure the tumour. I am happy to
say that I am now in the best of health, thanks to VITA-
DATIO. I freely give you this testimonial, and can with
confidence recommend VITADATIO to any person suffering
as I did.
Yours respectfully,
GEORGE MARRIOTT.
Acre-place, off Malvern road, Malvern.
I have pleasure in substantiating my father’s testimony.
GEORGE MARRIOTT, Jun.
For further particulars ,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: 439 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
■; . . - ■' ’ • - -
PRICE Is. Id. post Free
At the North Melbourne court, last week,
a woman complained that the husband whom she
divorced three years ago had worried her ever
since by haunting her home. On Xmas Eve the
faithless creature sneaked into the house, hid him-
self under her bed, and when she found him he
asked for something to eat. Then she took out a
warrant for his arrest. A divorced husband
nowadays seems to be much the same object of
sympathy as a widow was aforetime. The decree
nisi leaves him quite unprovided for. He crawls
back to the home he has blighted and asks for
food.
“ Vulcan ” : Thought the old age pension
in N.S.W. was paid regularly first of each month,
but find I’m mistaken. Anyway, at a suburban
branch of the Bank of N.S.W. (the bank which
does all the paying out), the old people, on receiv-
ing their money one month, are given a ticket
stating that their next remittance will not be paid
until the 10th, 12th, or even 14th of the following
month. If this practice is general—why ? The
pension is little enough to see the recipients over
the month, but when, perforce, it has to'stretch
out to six weeks or more it’s niggardly and
Bentish.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
t
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason*
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS; Surgic^ a I k n e s r t ™ ment
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
for private sale.
MAGNIFICENT
DAIRYING PROPERTY
Known as “ MORAYFIELD,"
situated’2B miles from BRISBANE, adjoining Railway Line.
Under instructions from W. H. JACKSON, Esq., who is
retiring from business.
ONE OF THE BEST DAIRYING PROPERTIES IN
SOUTHERN QUEENSLAND,
■ CONTAINING a total area of 2/37 acres, of which about
w 1100 acres are black soil river flats, 400 acres under
plough and 700 acres ring-barked, well watered by a large
lagoon and planted with paspalum and other grasses,
! The improvements comprise a very large dwelling-
stables, 6-roomed cottage, 4-roomed cottage, 2 milking
sheds with 41 bails, large barn (00 x 00), implement and
cart sheds, 10-stall brick stable, grain shed, pig sties
stock yards, cattle dip, bull pens, &c., 9 grass, 9 cultivated
fields and 5 pig paddocks. The herd consists of 450 dairy
cows, selected and bred from cattle imported from the
South Coast of New South Wales; 26 horses, 150 pure
Berkshire pigs.
Price, £lO,OOO. Stock and extensive plant at valuation
if required. Terms: one-fourth cash, balance at 5 per
cent, on terms to suit purchaser. Full particulars
inspection, &c., apply to
/ SLES, LOVE and CO.,
Auctioneers, Brisbane.
HARD TIMES
COMPEL ECONOMY.
THE
±
CALLAGHAN SPECIAL
is a Sty/is h/y-shaped Hard-wearing Boot.
NOTE :
SOLES Solid oak-tanned stout walking soles,
stitched on a Goodyear machine, with best
Irish I lax Thread, warranted not to rip open
UPPERS Uppers and vamp are cut from plump
skins, and are not skimped in any way.
LINING—A good grade of leather.
The inner sole is milled perfectly
smooth on the surface and free
from nails, creases or thread.
HEELS—Square trimmed.
Size 1 inch, properly
nailed.
16/6
A
PAIR
Post and
Duty Free 176
TAN LEATHER, 17/6
Post Paid, 18/6
EXCEPT
TO W.A.
* •
k
¥»
mum.
K
THE NEW
CALLAGHAN
STYLE-BOOK
Sent Post Free
on application *
CALLAGHAN & SON; 395 George Street, Sydney.
Boots Exchanged or Money Refunded.


Most every rising youth ” in the soft-goods
line in Melbourne now dons a motor-cap—the
latest style is of worsted or serge, with a white
celluloid peak, ‘ 2s. 6d. during the sale. 1 A year
or two back they adorned their massive brows
with brass - buttoned nautical caps and straw
deckers with yacht-club ribbons.
Maoriland Ex-Gov. Itanfurly returned to
England via TX.S. A., and when in New "Y*ork was
banqueted by the Pennsylvania Society because
he is a direct descendant of William Penn, founder
of Pennsylvania.
Shipping. - "
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR UNL
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin-Screw Steamer.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
I,ONDON .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
TII 15->
Colonial Mutual liife
ASSURANCE society limited.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. O. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K. 0., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Fund5,~£2,814,795.
Policies issued 94,657 assuring £28,394,068.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,267,019.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
. Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 St 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national Bank,
limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,191 13 10
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 39,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS. 12
Months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum. 2 Years
and over, at the rate of 4J per cent, per annum.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
•Caban, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. : F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND and UNDIVIDED
PROFITS (used in Company’s business) £15,122 8 1
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; HOll. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT ICO. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175.885
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 63,00 C
£696,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital - .. £2,000,000
Pe Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 000 ... £350.000
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. ... .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,370,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 .0 0
Total 5,370,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker,
Hon. Rf.ginald James Black, M.LC.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie. Esa.
11. Montague Faithfull, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit .and Circulai
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager. 1
Snipping.
nxr. id. x*.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
I TO CHINA "and JAPAN
Froiji SYDNEY Every 6 Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW - GUINEA to lIONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
T.S.S. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 21st JANUARY.
T.S.S. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 4th MARCH.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
ţ
ť
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
dighest grade Cycles fully warranted.
SS o S2- to to £5-5-0
Dunlop Tyrcs.Westwood Steel Rims,
i<’ree Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port in Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres, Accessories, Sporting Goods &
•Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
>Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO- Dept. 339 b
CHICAGO, U.B.A. Bud LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
fSALAMIS
•MARATHON
DAMASCUS'
A. Douglas,
N. Allan ,
■R. MoKilliam
Noon, Jan. 21
Noon, Feb. 4
tDischarging at Durban Wharf. *Twin-Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. ; 3rd Class..
London .. ~ From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. ,£l3 13s to £l7 1/s.
ROUND THE WORLD Ticket^ from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantlf appointed. *
THIRD-CLASS tfce highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., *
LUGGAGE received only on day^sailing.
Dalyety ana Commtny, Ltd.,
' AdffiN’fß.
WHITE STAR LIKE.
1
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000t0n Steamers.
AFRTC, to ' Sail on or about
27th JANUARY,
SUEYIC, PERSIC, RUNIC',
and MEDIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown ... .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .... 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
QCBA.ISriC STE -A- JMCS UIF COMPA.WY.
A. AND AT LINE.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Via San Francisco, St. Loui3, C .'oago, Niagara Falls or the Capitol (Washington).
Pares to Any Destination as Oiieap as Any Other First-Clash Line. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
BURNS, PHILP and CO.. Ltd., managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE FASCINATING PACIFIC.
Next time you want a holiday, why don’t you break away from the con-
ventional trips and see a part of the world where the savage is still a savage,
surrounded by natural scenery ? If you take a trip by our steamship “ Moresby,”
you will enjoy a cruise amongst the Islands of the New Hebrides and Solomon
Groups that will last about 54 days at a cost of £25. There are no extras.
Send for illustrated descriptive matter, post free.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Limited, 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. Ac.
Upon - all - Classes -
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
<s>
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
axr.srw.
(Ijont depiete |. fio., Qtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7s.
£ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Accident and G-uarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Borns (Burns,
Phiip & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide. W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Austral a
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
OCEAN
CANADIAIM-AUSTRALIAN LIME
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL-
Jan. 23, Feb. 20, March 20.
ROUND THE WORLD RATES-
£IOS to £l3O ... Ist Class.
£73 to £B2 ... 2nd Class.
SINGLE FARES TO LONDON—
£SS to £66 ... Ist Class.
£35 to £4O ... 2nd Class.
To Travel is an Enlightenment, and
Particularly so in Visiting Canada.
NO OTHER ROUTE GIVES SUCH AN IDEA OF THE
EXTENT OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
ŧ
Through Picturesque Islands.
New Guinea, New Britain, Dutch East Indies and Singapore ! A truly delightful
trip, and one that cap now be made with perfect comfort. The Steamships “ Airlie ”
and “ Guthrie,” which are fitted with all electrical and cold storage conveniences,
leave Sydney alternately every six weeks. The trip occupies eighty days. The total
cost is £4O for the round trip, or £25 single to Java or Singapore. A five weeks’ trip
may be arranged by eliminating the Dutch East Indies from the Tour. Cost £25.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED, 10 Bridge Street.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
WONDERFUL VALUE.
X
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Book of Conjuring,Tricks.(containing 100.coin and
card tricks),'the Surprise Packet or Nerve Strengttiener
(a good joke), the Three Donkies, the Wizard
Fish (gives ’ the definition of your character —
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), the Pocket Companion or Combina-
tion Comet Candle,and Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the Norths Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). ' This splendid packet posted’to any
address in Australasia,'free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. Li HUTCHINSON, Box S, P.O., Haymarket,
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney,
«andts
latent
ICE
JACHINE
Hand Ice Making
Machine.
Makes Ice in 5 Minutes.
PRICE Send for Catalogue B.
70s.
BRANDT BROS.,
422 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne
and 236 Pitt-st., Sydney
m
<m
wx
m
Early Issues of Australian
POSTAGE STAMPS
Purchased —Cash sent by Return
Mail. Price Lists Post Free.
WALTER A. HULL,
No. 10 The Strand, SYDNEY,
G.P.O. Box 1312.
Reynolds’s
Newspaper
Keeps the Democratic Flag
flying all over the* World.
READ IX.
JOHN' IHGKS - - - Strand, London, W.C.
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED). ' .
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE ?" '
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY, •
FREMANTLE, ' i.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Allingu, Friday,
: .) itnuary 13, at 5- p.m.
(Transhipping at Mel-
bourne.)
S.S. Ky'arra, Wednesday,
January 18, at is p.m.
. (Without Transhipfiaent.)
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
• TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
January 14, at Noon.
"S.S.- Marloo, January 28,
at Noon.
Hest and Cheapest llonte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage .Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
.Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
t— —— i—1— jnwvpagtsiyff ■ ywcy-jawt
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract withtha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
POUT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows: —
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Cnina
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
neluding table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED R<VTE3. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meek
the passengers for London and give them every assistano*
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company OHloe*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
BY TIIB .
“e. and a.” line.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVEKY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloe.n Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are iarge, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYD3STEIT.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
AJEWLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Recepti ns can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
"" Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE,
and REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
“ T SAY, Jim ! Where did you stay when you went over
to Melbourne last ? ”
“ Oh ! at the
"FALSTAFF” Restaurant
SPEKCER STREET,
Opposite Railway Offices.
I found it all right, clean and comfortable, handy to
railways and boats. Could get a hot bath when I wanted
it, and could be called any time by Night Porter.
Smoking Room ; 6 a.m. Breakfast. Board and Resi-
dence, 16s. and £l. Single Bedrooms, Is. -6d. Double
Bedrooms, 3s. Meals, Gd. and 9d. Try it.”
A Limited Number of Single Bedrooms are available
at Is. per night, or ss. weekly, with every
convenience. Tel. 1281.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comtoru and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 'i to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
1 1\H E Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-L the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.


SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
L. T. RIVER’S
LATEST PARISIAN PERFUMES
LE TREPLE
ROSIRIS
SENTEUR
fiZURE/i
S/iPRftNOR
FETERN/I
WHOLESALE ONLY
MIDDOWS BROTHERS, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH, ADELAIDE, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
THE NEW
"RAJAH GOLD" NAME BROOCHES
Gokl-eassd, appear like solid gold. Good pins. Any name
from Ato Z (pet names included). PRICE, Is. 6d. each ;
any four names for ss. Post free anywhere. Make a club
of 4, and send ss. postal note for any i names; you’ll
certainly be pleased with them. Any Motto of not
more than 12 letters engraved without extra charge.
Mizpah, Forget-Me-Not, Regard, Baby, Mother, Good
Luck, Pet, etc., etc.
(Mention this paper.)
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Office Economy—A Suggestion
Several of the largest offices in London
have equipped their entire staff with
SWAN
Ftuatiin Pens,
removing all Desk Encumbrances, such as
Inkpots, Holders, Racks, Extra Nibs, etc.
No—there is no other Fountain Pen “ just as good”
“SWAN" PENS are fully guaranteed. Catalogue post free.
Milit, Toil $ Bard,
93, Cheapside,
London, E.C. /*
Sold by all Stationers, Jewellers, and Importers.
OKIE
t
When your Eves call for Attention
Wh y You
Should Buy the New Oldsmobile
It is the simplest and most reliable runabout made—2s,ooo now
in use; the car that has been driven 3,500 miles across
the American continent; the onlyone in its class that took the
highest awards in the English Reliability Runs in 1903.
Seven proven liorse-power, S Inch tires, no gasketß, weigns 1,100 lbs.,
splendid hill climber. Increased power, speed and strength over former
models.
Send to nearest agent for handsome catalogue showing Olds-
mobile light Tonneau Car, Touring Runabout and Delivery Car.
Olds Motor Works, Detroit. Michigan. U. S. A.
Australasia i Agents: Dun.an & Fraser, Aue aide, S.A. jHa >•<*
Melbourne, Vio.; American Motor Car & Vehicle Co., Perth, W.A.; James
Smith & Sons, Brisbane, Q.; A. C. Webster & Sons, Hobart, Tas.;
W. A. Ryan Co., Auckland, N.Z.
ţ
ť
Go TO THE MOST SKILFUL AND EXPERT PEOPLE,
OSBORN & JERDAN,
CONSULTING OPTICIANS and
SPECTACLE MAKERS, ....
393 George Street ( Ro yai ci Hotei)* Sydney*
Special Testing Rooms. Up-to-date Appliances. Skilled Opticians to attend to you.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Re ACETYLENE GAS & CARBIDE
OF CALCIUM PATENTS.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
v.
Messrs. J. Bartram and Son,
Butter and Produce Merchants, Melbourne, Vic.
A rumor has been spread through Australasia that
the above action for infringement of Patent rights
has been withdrawn. This is not correct, the
defendants having procured a . Commission to take
evidence in Europe which will delay the case six
months.
The Acetylene Cas Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
desire to warn the Public against dealing with In-
fringers of their Patents. As soon as the above case
is settled the Company will be under the necessity of
proceeding against USERS AS WELL AS IMPORTERS
for infringement and damages.
On all matters connected with Acetylene Gas
write direct to
The Acetylene Gas Co,
of Australasia, Limited,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
* >
*o*
Os
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
-*7
INSTRUCTION FREE I!
You can become a Hypnotist in a tew hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affectiou, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
| Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
1 free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, b 9 Pitt St., Sydney.
ft
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored irt
Four Weeks by using
(U CORO’s
ic,SSEH cE of u \ f €••
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 12s., or four quantities in one, 36s. Freight extra.
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen 8t.,
Melbourne; N.S.W. —Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
OLLOWAY
,*CS
55? A-
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down ” cr “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
J-
•#’
AND
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
saysßenger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own."
ft
V®
FOOD
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BENDER'S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, ftc., BYERTWHSE®.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
The Quest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I CAN’T imagine what they can be thinking
of—these people who say that you can find
no beauty in Melbourne.
“ If you take the steamer to Frankston you may
Bee some “pretty” bits, forsooth, or it might be
worth your while to spend a week end at Narbe-
thong. Anything apart from Melbourne, in fact.”
... I’d like to take one of these blinded,
bandaged, deluded idiots in hand, and lead him
quietly through the streets till I landed him safe
and sound inside the Fitzroy Gardens.
There—there ! —I would loosen the bandage and
let the full glory of the green world stream full on
his startled senses—the green, green world with
its overarching elm-leaves, its stretch of waving
grasses and its delicate, fragile poplars which
twinkle (brighter than any star) in the morning
sunshine.
Is there no beauty, Q Blind-Eyes, in those
bent, black tree-boles—those slim, pale stems,
those tall, rough, grey ones? Does not that
golden, molten sunlight pierce you, that dim
shade awe you? Are not those piles of copper
leaves something to think on, dream on, rave on ?
Hush ! Hush ! Hush!
That is the wood -dove. Hold your breath !
Crouch ! Listen ! A snapping twig, a rustle, a
thrilling “ Cooeoo ! ” and we see her—the small,
sweet, brown, feminine thing with her soft, bright
eyes, her glancing head. “ Cooeoo ! Cooeoo 1
Cooeoo! ”
They are worth a passing glance (are they not ?),
those fair white statues.
Swish ! Swish ! The gardener flashes past us,
driving before his broom (a stick with a bundle of
leaves attached) a flock of crisp dead leaves, a
flight of brown butterflies —sisters to these we
crush so deliciously brittly under foot. You show
me now (not I you I) those red brown sycamores
burnished in the sunlight, that sward like a mile
of unrolled velvet, the patch of shade cast by the
oak’s green umbrella, the blue jumper of the little
child dancing through the trees.
But enough ! This is too long dalliance over
one picture. Adjust your bandage, resume your
darkness, and come away !
That long, broad, high-buildinged, tree-bordered
stretch is Collins-street. See the traffic by the
Town Hall, the hansoms, the darting trams, the
red and yellow lights, the buzzing sea of black,
bobbing heads.
Turn away to your right; this is Spring-street;
that building is the Treasury (look at the angry
man shaking its dust from his feet). Here on
your left hand is the Grand; hear the fiddles, see
the fan-shaped patch of orange spreading from its
portals.
A line of twinkling cab lights—Parliament
House —most beautiful, stateliest edifice in the city.
What pillars, what steps, what elegance, what
simplicity !
Electric lights, gas lights, bicycle lights, cab
lights, lights white and blue, red and green and
yellow.
The smell of Melbourne —the grey of it, the
crowd of it, the thrill of it.
The Princess’s and the play-name in letters of
fire; roof and chimney and spire; the Exhibition’s
sound head.
Above, a dim, blue sky, a star, a great, round,
Colemn, swinging silver moon.
Have you seen, Blind Eyes—or must you take a
trip to Frankston, or an excursion to Narbethong,
to discover it ?
I am satisfied.
Keep your Frankston ; keep your Narbethong.
Only leave me —leave me— Melbourne!
DOROTIIY McCRAE.


u
If
K
V
WH
S
What They Are.
The Four Principal Properties op Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
Many people take medicines without having
the slightest idea of the properties they contain,
and they maybe taking drugs into their system that
i
DIRECTIONS
ADULTS TWO TO FOUR PILLS
CHILDREfI A HALF TO A
WHOLE PILL QISSOLVED
IN SWEETENEO WATER.
To betaken, deform
retiring.
can do them no good
and may do them harm.
Dr. Mouse’s Indian Root
Pills are a purely vege-
table compound manu-
factured from roots and
gums. One of the’roots
from which these] pills
are made is a Sudbrific,
which opens the pores
of the skin, and Assists
nature in throwing out
the finer parts-of the
corruption within. The
second is a plant which
is an expectorant tha
opens and un clogs th
passage to the lungse
and thus, in a soothing,
manner, performs its
duty by throwing off
the phlegm and other
humors from the lungs
by copious spitting. The
third is a diuretic, which
gives ease and double
strength to the kidneys.
Thus encouraged, they draw large amounts of
impurity from the blood, which is then thrown
out bountifully by the urinary or water passages.
This could not have been discharged in any other
way. The fourth is a cathartic, and accompanies
the other properties of the pills. The coarser
particles of impurities, which cannot pass by other
outlets, are thus taken up and conveyed off in
great quantities by the bowels. From the above,
it is shown that Morse’s Indian Root Pills not
only enter the stomach, but become united with
the blood, for they find their way to every part of
the body, and completely rout out and cleanse
the system from all impurity. The life of the
body, which is the blood, becomes perfectly
healthy. Sickness and pain are driven from the
system, for they cannot remain when the body
becomes pure and clean.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
m V ch , new spaper riot the Australian
NoWp S' h x bCen P ‘ ok r ed - N - S ‘ W - is represented bv
Noble, Victor Trumper, J. J. Kelly, R. A. Duff, A. j.
»°P k ™. S - ®; Gregory, W. P. Howell, and A. Cotter.
South Australia sends J. Darling, C. Hill, Gehrs and P M
Newland, while Victoria’s contribution is W. W. Armstrong
and (j. Jr,. M I ,eod. Darling- strikes this paper as a very
ancient exportation. Europe sends us hersingers, actors anil
stars when they are old and toothless, and Australia
sends Britain her cricketers till they begin to show signs
of toothlessness The selection of Hopkins is not a
matter for joy either, and even Sid. Gregory might with
advantage have been replaced by a younger player. To
argue that there were no young players to replace Hop-
kins and Darling is to insult the intelligence of the party
the argument is tried on. r j
* • ** •
Alleged that one prominent cricketer made his
Australian Eleven chances hopeless by once hitting a
member of the selection committee on the nose
* * * *
Phil Newland, chosen as understudy to Kelly
tour > has ke P fc wicket for S. A. ever since
J. McKenzie abandoned cricket because Carter was taken
instead of him in 1902. Who it was told McKenzie he
might pack his trunk for that trip has remained a mys-
tciy , hut certain it is that he received what he considered
a sufficient hint to that effect. Newland is an all-round
sport, a crack footballer, and perhaps the best lacrosse
player in Australia. As a batsman he is just fair—about
as good as Kelly. Also, he is a lawyer, and a product of
Adelaide University.
* * * *
The sensation of Saturday’s play in the S.A.-
N.S.W. match at Sydney was the bowling of Cotter His
first two wickets cost eight runs, his third (Darling’s)
three more. When Claxton was caught his record was
4 for 19, and the departure of Jennings made 5 for 21, and
the bowling of Hill lifted it to 6 for 27. It’s damaging
bowling, Cotter’s—in more senses than one. When he
gets the range the batsmen cannot stand against him ;
when he loses the range both batsmen and spectators are
in imminent danger. Darling was badly hit ; Jennings
was nearly knocked down with one on the thigh ; Hill
was smacked on the shoulder ; and there were numerous
narrow escapes.
* • * *
J. F. Travers and J. C. Reedman proved them-
selves bowlers of mark in the recent inter-State match at
Sydney. Travers’ six wickets for 102 runs in 32.4 overs is
a record anyone might be proud of, and Reedman’s three
wickets for 79 runs in 26 overs is almost as good. The
three wickets Reedman took were those of Duff, Noble,
and Hopkins, amongst the best batsmen in the world.
* * *
“ Blackbutt ” : The present unedifying spec-
tacle of three Australian cricket associations snarling
and wrangling over the control of the Australian XI
emphasises the need of an all-Australian body with all
the powers of the English Marylebone Club, arid more, if
necessary, to control Australian cricket both at home and
abroad. The present system of selection may be
fair, but it is doubtful, and a properly elected
controlling body would command more confidence.
The row and flood of newspaper correspondence
over the picking of the team shows what a number
of people can be offended when 14 players have to
be selected from about 30, all on about the same plane of
equality. It is only when a cricket team is being selected
that the average Australian begins to realise what an
energetic nation he belongs to, and realisation is complete
when he watches the demoniacal furv of Cotter’s bowling.
* * * *
Although old George Giffen has been dropped
out of S.A. State cricket team the clan is still repre-
sented worthily. George’s nephew, also a Giffen, is
plugging away with the ball for the State second team,
and making considerable success, too. Just at present he
gives considerable promise of one day proving good.
* * * *
That N.S.W. had, after the second day of the
return match against S.A. at Sydney Cricket Ground, a
shadow of a hope of victory was due to the hatting of
Duff, Waddy, and Howell in the Cornstalk first innings
and the lightning-like velocity of Cotter’s bowling in the
Croweaters’ second stand at the sticks. In their very
prosaic first innings the S. Australians had smacked up
only 281, and when Trumper and Duff had placed
89 on the scoring board on Friday evening the
voice of the Cornstalk barracker was loud
in its scorn. But the last hall of the first day
dismissed N.S.W.’s most elegant batsman for a
miserable 28. On Saturday Noble joined Duff, but the
scoring was funereal. Duff added 19, and, with 80
opposite his name, made way for Waddy. The score
was then 125, and something like a rot set in. Noble
left at 133, Sid Gregory at 136, Hopkins at 145, and then
Howell joined Waddy, and they succeded in stemming
the rot and lifting- the figures to 233 before Howell
left for 62. Waddy made 57, and Carter 22, and a
scareful innings ended for 299. With only 18 to
make up on the first innings, S.A.’s prospects were
decidedly hopeful. In the first Clem Hill had failed to
score, and that was hardly likely to happen again. When
Cotter started shooting with the wind disaster came
rapidly. At 11 Gehrs’ wicket fell; at 12 Hack was caught;
at 24 Darling was bowled. Hill played a brilliant innings
for 41 off Howell, hut the slaughter went on, and at 52
Claxton went for 7. At 62 Jennings was out l.b.w.
for 1, and at 76 Clem Hill was bowled off his
pad by something like a Hotchkiss shell from Cotter.
Next day Pellew staved off the evil hour by lifting Cotter
for three 4’s in one over, and knocking up 53 before he
was caught by Noble off Hopkins. But the mischief was
done, and the S.A. innings closed for 185, and with only
168 required to win the Cornstalk tail was exalted. Of
the required number Trumper made 76 and Waddy (not
out) 43; and the balance was contributed by Duff,
Hopkins and Howell. N.S.W. won by seven wickets.
• * * *
“M.” gets an out-of-the-way view of a dark
question : —Our picnic cricket team played 11 patients
of the Insane Asylum at Christmas. The patients
won the toss, went in, and knocked up 124. Behavior
normal, brain receptacles all apparently in good order,
and no undue excitement. 1 was skipper of my side, and
saw nine wickets fall for 70. Went in then (last man) and
began to hit, man at other wicket being a sticker. As
the score mounted, noticed the field, which was keen on
winning, getting fidgetty. The fast bowler was increasing
his run, starting about 20 yards behind the wicket.
Soon his arms and legs began to describe fearful
gyrations, and his face to light with tragic earnestness.
But I scored off every ball, his length being- erratic,
and the direction mostly “wide.” As we approached
their score the bowler increased his run, and with
each delivery got nearer and nearer to me. Bending
down to get my breath after running four off a ball which
bounced over my head off the hard ground, I felt a sudden
weight—the wicket-keeper had sprung on my shoulders,
and was fumbling at my neck. He jumped off, laughed
loudly, and I took another cannon-shot, this time hurtled
from a distance of 10 yards, the field crouching round
within a similar radius. No score this time, the ball
again rising high over my head. But once more that
spring on my back, and (his time it brought me to earth.
Swinging my arm round I was only just in time—the
wicket-keeper was trying to bore one of the stumps into
my neck, to give a chance to the high bounders. I rushed
through to the pavilion, and called, “Retired—hurt.” I
didn’t want to make those four other runs—l merely
wanted to get home, whole.
* » * *
M. A. Noble, the other day, told the Victorians
that, before they can hope to recover their lost ground
COLT COTTER, THE NEW FAST
BO WLER.
they must introduce a strict system of district or elec-
toral cricket. A big 1 stumbling-block in the way
of accepting this good advice is the existence of
the Melbourne and East Melbourne clubs. Though
the Melbourne suburban cricket grounds are better,
as a rule, than those round Sydney, the local clubs
pale before the two big ones, especially the M. 0.0. The
Melbourne Ground, where all the big matches are played
(corresponding to the Sydney Cricket Ground), gives the
M. a big pull. It has such social and financial
strength that, while not always the boss club on the
cricket-field, its prestige is such that any electoral system
of supposed equality would be more or less of a farce.
The parlous condition of cricket in Victoria points to the
need of some drastic step. *
* * * *
The Transvaal Cricket Union has gone to the
trouble of passing a resolution declaring that the Aus-
tralian cricketers are not wonted in Africa. Probably
through some oversight it was not resolved that a team
of Chinese cricketers be invited instead. Meanwhile, it is
interesting to observe that a verse of a pantomime song,
in which it is decared that Australians were idiots to have
fought to make a home for Chows in Africa, is being
cheered nightly in a Melbourne theatre almost as exube-
rantly as “ Soldiers of the Queen ” was cheered in the mad
days of mafficking.
* * * *
Aviard, a S.A. colt, the other day, bowled seven
of the S.A. inter-State team for 120, and he had four easy
chances missed off his bowling. He is moreover a tough
and reliable field in the hardest places. Next season
should see him in big cricket.
* * * *
A member of the Second Victorian Eleven
which suffered defeat at the hands of the Second N.S.W.
Team during the New Year holidays was J. Horan, son of
the once famous Tommy Horan, an Australian Eleven
batsman, and known, under the pen-name of “Felix,” as
a cricket writer. Young “Felix” succeeded in getting
a double duck in the match.
* * * *
Saturday’s play in the return S. Australia-
N. match saw Clem Hill lift his score against the
Cornstalk State to 2000. Clem didn’t look a jot different
after he had done it, although he may have felt better.
There’s no money in that sort of thing, as Peter Amos
said.
* » * •
An otter of 3000 gs. was once refused for
Abundance, sold last week for 500 gs. to do stud duty on
the Richmond River. Abundance has two Derbies and
St. Legers in his winning list.
» * * *
Couple of months past have seen Sydney book-
makers very much down in the mouth, for things have
not been going too well. Recent four days (A.J.CJ. and
Tatts. Club) at Randwjck, during which 24 races were
run, only produced two “ turn-lips ” (in Talofa and
Lochino), while at Warwick Farm, Saturday last, every-
thing w T ent against: the odds-layers. Longest priced
winner was Malcutu (7 to 1), and her party invested so
freely that it is doubtful whether the bag held enough
from other sources to pay out.
* * * *
At break-up of late Mr. R. Richards’ Bulga
stud, Ohere Amie was sold, an unnamed 2-,year-old, to
Randwick trainer A. Foley for 28gs. ; since then Chere
Amie has won Rosehill Carlingford Mile, rich A.J.C.
Doncaster Handicap, and August Stakes, and was, a day
or two ago, sold by Foley for SOOgs. to go to S’Africa.
Though shrewd onetime Sydney pony and horse trainer
Wootton is the buyer, it does seem he has made a mistake,
for Chere Amie is sure to be heavily weighted, and is a
gelding.
* » • •
Cabled announcement that famous Australian
nag Abercorn dropped dead in Ireland lately, aged 21,
recalls the difference of opinion which always existed as
to whether he. or Carbine was the better racehorse. Fact
of there being a year’s difference in their ages made the
difficulty of comparing them greater. Abercorn won 31
races, worth £12,828, and it is still hotly contended that
his owner mpde a big mistake in not starting him for the
Melbourne Cup of 1889, though he had to carry 10.8 to
Carbine’s 10st., for at that time, with Hales up, Abercorn
appeared capable of anything within reason, and he had
won the Metropolitan of that year. Previous owner’s
(Jas. White) widow married Captain Scott, and he took
Abercorn to England in 1893 ; but the horse fell off there
as a sire, and was only represented by a few winners.
* * * *
Maorilander Stead’s splendid mare Cruciform
retires from the track to take up maternal duties. In her
five racing the mare won £7267 in stakes alone,
having finished first in 19 events. In the 32 races in which
she has started she has only been unplaced once, and has
finished second nine times, and third twice. A truly
wonderful record.
* * # *
Maoriland totalisator receipts during the finan-
cial year 1903-4 were £1,357,263, an increase of £81,450
over those of 1901-2, the previous record. Treasury per-
centage was £20,486.
* * -Ir *
Adelaide Register prints figures showing that
totalisator investments in S.A. fell from £259,000 in 1903
to £210,000 in 1904. Reason assigned—the presence on
every racecourse of “ totalisator agents,” who nominally
receive money to be put in the machine, but are in fact
unlicensed bookmakers. The police say the P.M.’s won’t
convict, and the magistrates say the police don’t present
evidence of actual betting; and the bookie, often the
merest welsher, goes ahead unchecked. Another reason
for the falling-off, however, is the stashing away of the
oasual race-goer, who has got tired of seeing the same
second-rate horses beat each other, and attends only on a
O up-day.
* * * *
Maher, the Yankee jockey, scored the largest
percentage of winning mounts for the 1904 racing season
in England, although he came only third on the list. The
Tod Sloan style of riding, in its highest development, is
clearly the best. And the Yanks are its best exponents.
* * * *
The motor-launch building business is booming
in Sydney. Most of those building are being fitted with
3 h.p. oil-engines. There’ll be heaps of money to the club
which first organises a genuine motor-boat racmg carnival,
to be held somewhere outside the Heads, where the boats
can get on a real burst of speed.
° , * * *
Stanbury is still sanguine about his match with
world champion sculler Towns and, strange t° say gets
other people to believe that he has more than a possible
chance. His recent appearance in Newcastle was to hurry up
his supporters over the putting’ up ofstake, and it is
expected that the Newcastle share of the fund will be m
Sydney next week. So far he has only managed to shed
a stone of his weight, and has not done any sprint train-
in'’’. As the race is not to come off till some time next
May, Stanbury would have a very fair show, if he had not
been so many years away from the game, but if any of
the sports at Newcastle are foolish enough to go mort-
gaging cottages and hard earned property to back him, it
will be unwise.
».. * * *
A tip for-some future Austral: “The wife of
Bill Martin of a son.”
* « » *
A new edition of the “ Looping the Loop ” folly
is being perpetrated at Wellington Theatre Royal, M.L.
A wheel about 14ft. in diameter revolves just clear of the
floor of the stage. The rider mounts a bicycle on the
inside of the 3ft.-wide tyre of the wheel, which is then
sent revolving. By pedalling hard he is able to keep at
the bottom of the wheel; when the pace increases, he has
to go like Major Taylor to keep there. When it seems
that something disgusting must happen, the rider ceases
to pedal and’is oarried 'round the inner circumference of
the big wheel once. Then the wheel is stopped gradually,
while the fool inside the double row of spokes resumes
pedalling. # v *
Cyclist George Farley won the Australasian Test
match races against Don Walker with comparative ease.
Megson, representing N.S.W., rode in the first fixture,
but he had completely ruined any slender chance he ever
held by getting a rib damaged in a boxing bout while
training, and, therefore, did not appear in the second and
third contests. Hard to believe that a sane cyclist would
indulge in a real boxing bout, a tussle in which he might
sustain injury, while training for a continental champion-
ship race ; but, as Megson is his own accuser, he is, pre-
sumably, to be believed. In the .first race, a mile,
Farley left the pacer with a bound, and getting
right in front, won easily. Megson, finding liis ban-
dages made his chance hopeless, did not ride to a
finish. In the second race, also a mile, Walker jumped
first. As long as he is leading, Don Walker can ride a
splendid race, but Farley crept closer, and then, with a
sudden rush, dead-heated on the line. When the third
race, a half-mile, started, it was seen that Farley had
made up his mind to give no chances. He started with a
leap, made the pace a cracker right through, and, though
Walker made a game effort, he never had a show, Farley
winning by a length. Having won two out of the three
test races, Farley is Australasian champion, with the
honor of representing the continent against Ellegaard.
* * * *
Now being whispered that it was principally the
influence of Wren, the Melbourne toteman, which worked
the Federal Cycling Council to cause the N.S.W. cycling
body to remove the disqualification of MacFarland. The
request of the Federal Council was virtually an order,
but, all the same, it would have been better had the
N.S.W. League defied the Council. MacFarland when he
failed to have his disqualification lifted in N.S.W. went
across to Victoria, and it is said that Wren began then to
exercise his influence. Sundry members of the Victorian
Council were seen, and reasons advanced why the dis-
qualification should be removed as far as Victoria was
concerned. The reciprocity agreement with the N.S.W.
League stood in the way, and there were some of the
Victorian Council who refused to be influenced by the
reasons advanced. Then the S. Australian Council was
approached. The trump card, however, was a threat
that if these two Councils did not move the Federal
Council to prompt action MacFarland would race at unre-
gistered meetings, and backed by money and influence, 80
or more of the best riders in Australia would follow him, and
the Council would be faced by a most desperate opposition.
This threat succeeded. Panic fell upon them, and they
decided that “to save the sport” it was necessary to
show a spirit of consideration, and the Federal Council
was moved to forward a request that was virtually a
command to the N.S.W. body.
* * * *
The fact that the Victorian League handicapper
bas placed George Farley on scratch with Lawson, Elle-
gaard and Rutt in the A. N. A. Wheel Race indicates that
Australia is waking up officially to the fact that it has a
possible world’s champion on the premises. Strange that
while promising young native cyclists like Farley are
available for patronage, Australian capitalists should
waste time and money whitewashing Yankee pie-biters.
* * * *
The first nip of the MacFarland frost caught
the Summer Nights Amusements Syndicate at Sydney
Cricket Ground on the opening night of the January
carnival. There were racing the sprint champion of the
world, his brilliant predecessor for three consecutive
years, and the champion of Germany; also there was the
test for the Australian championship. Yet the attendance
was wretched. By the time the paper and pasteboard were
sifted from the pay-boxes, the metal residuum must have
been a very small quantity.
* •* # *
Evidently the alleged trouble between the Sum-
mer Nights Syndicate and Ivor Lawson was fixed up
somehow, as the world champion appeared at the open-
ing night of the carnival. Although he showed some
racing worthy of a world champion, he was far from suc-
cessful. The way he and Walter Rutt, champion of
Germany, paced one another up to and past nine others
in their heat in the Melbourne Mile was beautiful to see.
Then, having left all others behind, they fought
out a splendid struggle for the finish, with Lawson
first home. In the final, Rutt turned the tables deci-
sively. Sailing up to.a spread-eagled field which left no
opening, Rutt swung up the bank, and, right on the picket
fence, and rode clear round them. Behind him flashed Law-
son. But Ruttsimply glided away, and left the world cham-
pion struggling hopelessly a length behind. Lawson’s
only other appearance was in the “ Megson ” five miles
scratch. The winner, Andersen, Ellegaard’s travelling
-companion, and a very dark horse, burst away at the
start, and with Houston, of Queensland, got nearly a lap
ahead of the field. The field toiled behind them in vain.
It was a wonderful performance, and so well was the speed
maintained, in spite of a harassing wind and without
pacing, that Lawson, who beat Rutt in a savage tussle: for
third place, was nearly half a lap behind. Andersen is
worth watching.
* * * *
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen Council is very
touchy over the MacFarland case. The Britannia Club,
an affiliated body, recently passed a resolution regretting
that the League had removed the Sydney Thousand dis-
qualification. The council resented the resolution very
strenuously, and finding that it had been moved
by an unregistered member, referred the resolution
back to the club as highly improper, and then went on to
make a fool of itself by summoning the mover to appear
before it.
* * * *
. The Dunlop Tyre Co., which is organising the
overland Reliability Motor Contest from Sydney to Mel-
bourne, for the end of February, has “ regretfully de-
clined” the Foy Cup, which was to be donated as a per-
petual trophy for the contest by Mr. Mark Foy, of Sydney,
owing to the donor desiring the overland event to be a
race and not a reliability contest. The Dunlop Co. wants
a reliability contest only, the rules providing for no gain
in points to contestants who establish better times than
allowed by the time schedules. The promoters are
organising the event as a means of fostering motoring in
the Eastern States, and are of the opinion that a relia-
bility competition on the lines mapped out and not a race
will do that best.
* * * *
Sydney Royal Yacht Squadron’s first race of
the year was an ocean run for the Carleton Cup, be-
queathed by the late “ Tin ” Kelly, to be raced for annually
by yachts of 10 tons and over. The event also carries 'a
club prize of 10 guineas for the winner. Last year it was
won by A. J. Soutar’s Oithona, and against it came
Kelly’s Electra and Binnie’s Bona. The Bona is a new
style craft of 16 tons, and the Electra and Oithona are old.
time deep keelers of 21 and 15 tons burthen respectively.
All three were on scratch, but the Bona got away first with
Oithona and Electra, only a length between them, close
behind. Outside the breeze blew freshly from the N.E.,
and the sunshine and leaping water made it a day to be
out. The race was from Neutral Bay (in Port Jack-
son) to Botany Bay and back, and the Bona early
went to. the front. The trio were barely outside when
the Electra’s bowsprit snapped like a carrot, and the dis-
abled yacht swung round and made for home. The Bona
dashed on with the Oithona only a couple of minutes
behind her, and then opposite the Lighthouse the
Oithona’s topmast went over with a crack. The wreckage
was cleared with thoroughly seaman-like promptness, and
the yacht held on her way. The wind freshened and with
additional canvas the Bona flew along so fast that the
club steamer had hard work to get ahead in time to lay
down the flag-mark. The Oithona made wonderful pro-
gress in spite of her mishap, and on the passage back to
Port Jackson Heads actually gained a minute and a
quarter on the Bona. But the Bona more than recovered
it during the run up the harbor, and finished a winner by
3min. 56sec. To have finished so closely under the con-
ditions was a first-class performance on the part of the
Oithona’s skipper.
* • * *
For St. George Sailing Club’s (Botany) “best-
and-best ” race on Saturday seven started, and the
Yvonne, IS-footer, was showing the way when her bow-
sprit snapped off. Then Air Motor, the latest addition to
the club’s fleet, capsized, and out of the ruck the 14-footer
Euchre went to the front and finished first easily, with
Edith and Beulah second and third. Camira, Euchre,
Edith, and the unfortunate Air Motor are going to sail
round to Port Jackson to take part in the inter-State
sailing races next month. The Westraliah crack 18-footer
Bene is now on her way to Sydney, per cargo steamer, to
take part in the same contests. Queensland is seeding
no less than six boats to uphold the banner of the
speckled banana.
* * * »
Wrestler Hackenschmidt puts forth no claims
for any miraculous system that makes you strong while
you wait. As he admits, he is a born-strong man, and,
surviving a kettle of boiling water toppling over his in-
fantile side, grew up practically as he is to-day. Heavy
weights assisted him in getting form, but that was all.
There was no transfiguration of the weakling. Hacken-
schmidt is a Russian from a Baltic seaport, and gets his
name from a German grandfather. He differs from most
athletic authorities in holding that an athlete need not
necessarily be an anchorite. It is not good, he says, for
the athlete to be alone more than the other man. Hacken-
schmidt points out that Samson was good enough for a
lion, notwithstanding Delilah, before his shearing, and he
reckons that if he met St. Anthony on a 16ft. mat he
would shove the hoary ascetic through his own halo in
about ten seconds.
* * * *
Hackenschmidt has fairly taken athletic Mel-
bourne by storm. He is so boyish, so naive, that he is
every day making more friends than he can count. He
trains hard every morning with his “boys,” as he calls
his trio of attendant giants. After his training, he goes
to St. Kilda or South Melbourne for a swim. He is
in his element then, and thoroughly enjoys himself.
He has fallen deeply in love with the English fighting
method, and is learning boxing from Gunner Moir.
Though only a week at the new game, his teacher says
Hackenschmidt is coming on wonderfully.' “When I
have learned enough to beat Gunner Moir,” cries Haeken-
scbmidt, excitedly, “ he and I shall go to America, and I
will box Jeffries and all the big Americans. I shall be a
champion boxer. You wait and see.” And he chuckles
with delight, and shaping up, dances about on his toes to
show how light and active he is.
* * • *
In spite of his hog-fat condition Solomon Island
boy Wickham troubled Cecil Healey sorely in the 50 yards
handicap at Rushcutters Bay (Sydney) bath Saturday.
They started from scratch together and there seemed to
be nothing to spare between them all the way. Healey
just succeeded in winning by the touch in 25 2-5 secs.,
4-sths of a second outside Wickham’s own world record
put up in the same bath March 26th, last year.
r * * * m '
At Coogee Aquarium baths (Sydney) on Satur-
day W. Hobson broke George Whittaker’s American
record for 80 yards (50secs.) by covering the distance in
49secs. This was 4-sths more than Lane occupied over
the same distance in England, and both Whittaker
and Lane made their records over a straightaway course.
Would be worth while seeing if Hobson could break the
American record under the same conditions, and without
the assistance of the kick-off gained at each turn.
* * * *
Pearce and Powley have had a return ’rastle at
Dunedin Alhambra. Pearce essayed the task of throwing
his opponent three times in hours. Continuous strong,
rough work, which had the crowd applauding con-
stantly, and saw Powley attacking as well as defending,
resulted in Pearce being thrown—4o minutes from the
start. After four minutes’ spell, Pearce was roughed
over on to the spectators’ knees, and, carrying three or
four of them (chairs and all) with him, injured his arm so
badly that doctors say he wall not be able to wrestle again
for some time.


<4“ Garments for the Price of 3
“LONDON”
TO
MEASURE.
/'
With EXTRA
TROUSERS
FREE.
JEK
VA
Vjrr/A
OS
1
Mi
I ■
Which Pair to Wear? That is the Question.
“It’s a mighty good idea, that extra pair of Trousers Free.
Brightens up a fellow’s appearance wonderfully, and adds a pleasant
little puzzle to the morning toilette.”
1000 PATTERNS.
Samples and Self-Measurement Forms Free
LONDON
TAILORING OPP. G.P.O.
DEPOT, MELBOURNE
(ONLY ADDRESS IN THE STATES.)
ŧ
M.D., M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P., E., L.R.C.S., E.,
L.F.P.S.G., Gold Medallist, Formerly Medical
Superintendent and Visiting' Surgeon to four of
Australasia’s Leading Hospitals ; Government
Medical Officer; Medical Officer in charge of
troops, South African War.
THE VITAL QUESTION.
To whom shall I turn for a cure ? After so many failures, whom can I trust? Who is the most thoroughly
experienced physician and surgeon in Australasia ? .
The above qualifications, gained from the World’s Most Famous Universities, should be an all-sufhcient answer
to the question. Therefore, if you are ill, or suspect the existence of some latent disease, why not sit down
quietly at home, and drop a few lines in plain simple language to. Dr. Martin, describing as thoroughly as possible
the symptoms you experience. He will, on receiving such an account, write you plainly and in homely, undei-
standable language, telling you exactly what is the matter, and the remedy to obtain to effect a thorough cure.
Always bear in niind, Dr. Martin makes no charge for advice, and he has cured thousands who have been duped
and drugged by so-called specialists, by advice alone, ___
J AND WITHOUT CHARGING A FEE.
Send for free copy of extracts from all the leading Australasian papers, reviewing Dr. Martin’s latest work,
entitled “ Mind Over Matter.” Dr. Martin is completing a six hundred page medical work, containing prescrip-
tions for the cure of all ailments, which he will forward free to those who apply for same before i eb. 25th ; the
price after that date will be 255.
SEND FOR IT TO-DAY.
Remember, should you decide to correspond with Dr. Martin, you will be writing to one who will prove your
friend, “ not your pocket’s friend.” Be you rich or poor, do not hesitate to write to the Doctor, who will give
your case careful personal attention. Address All Communications —
DR. MARTIN,
Hours of Consultation, 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 daily.
ELMLEY HOUSE,
151 Elizabeth St., SYDNEY.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)
t
Thisis thestrong-est recom-
mendation ever given to
any Shaving Soap, and was
obtained solely on merit.
EVERY BARBER ON THE WORLD’S FAIR GROUNDS AT ST. LOUIS USES
Williams’ Shaving Soap
EXCLUSIVELY.
Send a Penny Stamp for WILLIAMS’ TRIPLET KEY RlNG—Three Tools in one.
J.
B. WILLIAHS CO.,
GLASTONBURY, CONN., U.S.A.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
imxmEHTn
□xoizixDmi
EECrrm
mnxu.iEiu
! 'H I'li
i i i b i i o ift r i i
171 OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
Jb ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office, Proprietor — GEO. W . ELLIS
•gUSHMAN
AND BUCCANEER,
Price, Is. Id.; Post Free.
W. W* GREENER’S
WorSd-Renowned GUNS
mm
Awarded Grand Prize,
St. Louis Exposition, 1904.
GREENER’S
CLUB RIFLES 310& 297/230
Best in the market for Kangaroo
and Ladies’ Rifle Clubs.
All Riflemen should read “ For Sport and
War,” by W. W. GREENER. 180 Pages,
100 Illustrations, Posted 1/2.
CREENER’S GUNS and RIFLES—a Large
Stock on hand.
Catalogues and Price Lists on application
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne
(Greener’s Representative).
TO HOTELKEEPERS!
If Trade Is Dull, Buy a Set of
POKER DICE.
Settles the Drink Question in Two Shakes.
Sent by Registered Post to any address on receipt of
Five Shillings.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO., Box 457, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ASK FOR jams**^^
FRANZ JOSEF LMER
PURE, WHOLESOME and INVIGORATING. There is Nothing Better.
MAIL ORDER PRIZE WINNERS.
The following are the names and addresses of the winners of our last competition, which
closed December 31st, 1904
Ist Prize J. W. BARBEN, Darr River Downs .. Prize £5 1 2
2nd Prize—JAS. BARR, Mungana, Chillagoe Prize £3 3 O
3rd Prize—JOHN SHANNON, Saltbush Park, via Eton .. Prize £2 4 0
4th Prize—J. S. McKINNON, Charlotte Vale, Coongooia Siding Prize £l3 0
Oar Second Red-Tag Sale
is now in full swing. The following
are the reductions in Tailoring :
SALE PRICES 30/- to 43/6
“ECONOMIC” SUITS TO MEASURE—
Usual Prices 35/- to 50/-
HAND-FINISHED SUITS TO MEASURE —
Usual Prices 60/- to 85/- SALE PRICES 50/- to 73/-
Write for Patterns and Self-measurement Blanks, TO-DAY.
CHARLES GILBERT,
spec,aust£ lorinC ' queen ST., BRISBANE.
jygr" If this paper is mentioned a Special Discount will be given.
To
Mine Managers,
Engineers, &c.
ss
B
RUBBER
BELTING
M
• i
Z
is recommended to Mine Managers. Its
Efficiency and Durability under wet conditions
renders its use more economical than leather
belting. Made endless (without stretch), any
length, up to 60 inches wide.
SAMPLE AND PRICE ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. ot AUST. LTD..
108 Flinders St., Melbourne : 150 Clarence St..
Sydney : 117 Grenfell St.. Adellide; 268-270
St.. Brisbane; 617 Hay St.. Perth; 128 Lichfield St..
Christchurch. N.Z.
mw
&
m
mm
titmd
tf:
(!fa>
m
W
&
,v^<;
unlop
Are Recommended
In all cases where
good wear is required
You will find the Quality
and Price right. Sample
of any class of Packing
on application.
THE DUNLOP TYRE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
ioB Flinders Street, Melbourne; 150 Clarence
Street, Sydney; 117 Grenfell Street, Adelaide;
268-270 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 617 Hay
Street, Perth; 128 Lichfield Street, Christ-
church. N.Z.
m
Queensland Government did another
sensible, time-and-money-saving thing the other
day, when,'at the opening of the session, it dropped
the mummery of an Address-in-reply, and dashed
right into business. The awful unconstitutionality
of it appealed, however, to Janny Leahy, lately
bush-pub. keeper, and the other Leahy was put
up to move a reply from the Opposition .side;
and then he and all the other dismal failures
of the House proceeded to dribble plati-
tudes about nothing in particular, and hung
on to nothing more definite than the usual assur-
ance to weary Nelson, acting-Governor, that “ the
matters that may be brought before us, shall
receive our most careful consideration, and it shall
be our earnest endeavor to so deal with them that
our labors may tend to the advancement and
prosperity of the State.” How much better off
Queensland would be for the Assembly assuring
weary Nelson that it will proceed with business as
usual, Heaven only knows.
A pitiful case of child murder came before
the Sydney Coroner lately, but the responsibility
was spread over so many people, and so gradually,
that nobody was held to blame. A superfluous
infant was handed over in the usual, way to some
kind person, in this case a spinster, quite ignorant
of child rearing. If a man had a valuable pup he
wanted to' bring up, sound and well, he would
not place it with a kind person who had not
seen a puppy fed before. This kind person
brought the child up on barley water alone, as
healthful a proceeding as feeding a fox-terrier on
compressed' air. "When the daily rate of emacia-
tion began to accelerate, a Children’s Protection
officer put in a belated appearance, and ordered
the child off to the Benevolent Asylum, where it
gasped out its little life on arrival. In spite of
the Children’s Piotection Act, it still seems better
to be born a superfluous dog than a superfluous
infant in N.S.W. The puppy goes to a speedy
and painless death in the harbor. The infant puts
in first a spell of hard torture trying to live on
barley water.
There is a small mining township on the
West Coast of Maoriland, formerly settled by
Italians, that, during its troubled existence, fur-
nished a goodly yield of tragedy. The record
of the community included, among other items,
a man’s head boiled in a kerosene tin, to pre-
vent identification. There was also a house
with some human teeth sticking in the rafters.
They belonged originally to a despondent person
who decided that life, even in that animated ham-
let, was not wbrth living, and exploded a dyna-
mite cartridge in his mouth. The teeth remained
in the roof for a long time, until a new tenant, not
liking the look of them, climbed up and knocked
them out with a hammer. The town is nearly
deserted now, though it still manages to send, to
the mining journals, a report on its “low level”
and its winze. But nearly all its Roman inhabi-
tants have departed where the plate of beans and
oil is unknown, and the knife sticketh not between
the ribs.
Sydney D.T. takes a soured and hostile
view of all things Federal. A recent paragraph :
During- 1904 the Federal High Court dealt with 27
appeals from judgments of the State Full Court, 16
appeals being upheld, and 11 dismissed. In several cases,
though the appeals have been dismissed, the two benches
have still been at variance as to why tne particular deci-
sion arrived at was right. There is one undoubted effect
of the establishment of the High Court as the local
appellate tribunal, and that is that litigation here has
been lengthened, and consequently made more expensive.
Previously suitors, unless they cared to face the delay and
expense of a Privy Council appeal, rested content with
the declaration of their rights by the State Full Court,
but now, with a local appeal court so available, an
unsuccessful party does not consider his case lost till an
appeal to that quarter fails.
Presumably, in view of the number of decisions of
the N.S.\V. Court that have been upset, the actual
previous state of affairs was that a poor suitor who
couldn’t go to the Privy Council had to put up
with a wrong decision in more than half the cases.
The reform of that state of things is actually
paraded by the D.T. as a grievance against
Federation.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
ţ
SCRUBB’
CLOUDY
FLUID i
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing:! Etc
. Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites. '
, Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water. P
For Sale b y all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
m
“Rat’s Castle.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE are, in a certain Australian city,
several ruinous buildings bearing this title,
which seems to be a poetic, popular ex-
pression indicative of dilapidation beyond help or
hope. It was once my good fortune to become
intimately acquainted with one of these architec-
tural remains. At that time, although it had the
name, it was not given over entirely to rats. On
the contrary, I found under its leaky but hos-
pitable roof some excellent human society.
When I first met Fitztalbot—over ten years aero
—he was a handsome, well set-up, well-groomed
young Englishman, with soft brown eyes and an
amber-hued moustache. He had come out from
England with a hatful of money and a portman-
teauful of introductions to the Best People. He
did not bring one to me, however—which was a
curious oversight on the part of his own people.
So that my acquaintance with him came about in
a merely casual manner. He was staying at the
leading hotel, and as he informed me in a tone
of genial candor—some of his new friends amongst
the Best People had already assisted him to de-
crease his capital by something like half-a-hatful
Eater on I was informed by somebody else who
knew him that he had disappeared suddenlv
leaving no message behind. lat once came to the
conclusion that his chums among the Best People
f him to get through his remaining half-
hatful of capital. °
. When I met him again, years afterwards, he
informed me that my supposition was quite
correct. He was staying at a third-class hotel
on this second occasion. Time and liquor
had not dealt too tenderly with him. Thero was
grey m his hair, and his once amber-hued
moustache was of a dark tawny color, just around
the mouth. Much wiping of it after drinking
beer had brought about this curious change I
have noticed simdar results in the case of other
steady beer-drinkers. Just then he was battling
He was in mourning for his wife, who was a widow
when he married her, and kept a small suburban
hotel doing a reliable jug trade. He thought it a
good speculation on his part, but the lady drank
herself to death or rather finished drinking her-
self to death—three or four months after their
union,leaving her hotel to the brewery that owned
it. Jitztalbot considered, however, that he had
not lost entirely by the transaction. He reckoned
that the insight he had gained into the licensed
victualling business during his period of wedlock
justified him m calling himself a hotel broker.
Nobody objected to this.
We had something to drink— several somethings
—and I saw him no more till quite two years after-
wards. Then it was he who found me out in a
casual yet business-like kind of way. In fact, not
to be too absurdly reticent, he came to my house
in the capacity of a bailiff. I venture to say that
never before did bailiff and tenant find each other
such agreeable company or spend a merrier time
together-while it lasted. We smoked and yarned
and drank beer into the small hours. Then Fitz-
talbot fell into a deep and heavy sleep, from
which he could not be aroused by aH the racket of
movmg furniture, which started almost imme-
diately after he had closed his eyes. He was
indeed, in such a dense, dead slumber that when
Martin, my next-door neighbor—for whom I had
performed a similar friendly office, though with
much more trouble attached to it, on a previous
occasion—and I lifted him bodily off the sofa and
deposited mm on a large soft pile of newspapers,
he did not so much as stir an eyelash. How that
man did sleep, to be sure ! And how mad he was
when he awoke to find the house empty—abso-
lutely nothing in it but a plate of cold meat and
bread and a quart bottle full of beer convenient to
his elbow. I forget how he explained the affair to
his employers, but I know that after some hard
swearing on their part he was told to be more
careful in future when he had to deal with
sharpers. A gentlemanly bailiff is too valuable
an acquisition to lose.
Fitztalbot told me, on that memorable night,
that he was living at “Rat’s Castle,” which was
situated in a certain street in a certain suburb.
He added that his beforementioned employers
allowed him to live rent free in this' desirable
family mansion; It contained three or four al-
most weathertight apartments on the upper floor
and there were a few gentlemanly fellows staying
With him whose company I would appreciate.
Each went out in the morning to scour the city
tor what he could find, and in the evening brought
home his loot, if any, to be placed in the common
store. Sometimes it was a shilling or two in cash
but more frequently it was beer, or beef, or bread’
bought or owed for on the way back. For being
as honest as hard luck would permit them’ to be
these brethren in adversity had established
a sort of spasmodic credit on a very small
scale at one or two of the little shops
m the neighborhood. And they usually managed
to keep solid—to a limited extent—with one
the , adjacent publicans. The garrison
ol Hat s Castle were not what one could call die-
hard drinkers, but a certain amount of beer was
to them a necessary of existence. But the most
curious and attractive thing about the Castle was
that throughout all its three or four watertight
apartments there was not (so Fitztalbot said) a
trace to be seen of woman’s dainty touch and
paceful fancy. There were no nice white cur-
tains at the windows to be kept free from tobacco
smoke; no pretty carpets on the floors to be
trodden upon delicately; no occasional tables or
whatnots, laden with knick-knacks and gimcracks
steered around carefully; and, in brief, none
ol the things that make men’s lives a weariness in
the homes of Respectability. Sheets of newspaper
which could be taken down when they became too
fly-spotted, made excellent substitutes—not so
romantic, perhaps, but far less mischievous, than
a ?y liisette s petticoat—for curtains at one or two
of the windows; the floors were bare, and the
furniture a huge kitchen table, a few deal chairs,
a wooden bench, and a kerosene-tin—was all solid
and useful. These descriptive details were given
to me by Fitztalbot before he fell asleep so sud-
denly and soundly, and my friend Martin and I
laid him down gently on his bed of literature.
Behold me, then, on Saturday evening some
four or five weeks afterwards trudging along, with
a sack on my shoulders, on my way to “Hat’s
Castle.’ I would not have walked if I could
have helped myself, but I had no choice,
lhe chateau was situated in an out-of-the-
way, forgotten suburb, to which conveyances
ran a t odd and unearthly hours only—
when they remembered to run at all. The sack
contained a shin of beef, a large slab of steak, a
huge German sausage, and a two-gallon jar of
beer. I might have bought the beer in the
neighborhood, bub Fitztalbot had told me that
the local beer was only fit for drinking when you
got it on credit. After much wandering, and
many curses, and several stoppages to rest on
fluent kerbstones, I arrived at last at the door
°• V. Iv a t’s Castle.” It was a mangy-looking ruin,
with a desquamated facade, and bleary windows,
and general appearance of dishonored old age.
I banged at tne door and, after a time, it was
opened by Fitztalbot himself, who said he was
delighted to see me, but was sorry I had not come
at a time when he could have offered me better
hospitality. It had been a bad day with the
1 boys,” who had come home empty-handed—all
but one of them who had brought nome sixpence,
which fiad to be spent on kerosene and a loaf.
We walked along some distance through level
darkness, and then we began to ascend step by
step a steep ridge of gloom. I knew by deduction
that it was a flight of stairs. But we could see
nothing—at least I could see nothing. Suddenly
we stopped, and Fitztalbot turned the handle of a
door and there was light! It came from a huge
V ll am P> i n the middle of a large, bare,
deal. table, at which four men were sitting
playing cards in what seemed to me a
sad and spiritless manner. They looked up
as we entered and, seeing a stranger, half rose
from their seats. Fitztalbot, with a smile, said
In a minute, boys,” and led me to the other end
of the room. And what did I see there ? I saw
a woman. After all the perjured ruffian had told
me about the free bachelor Bohemianism of the
Castle I saw a woman! Well, she was worth
seeing. She was tall, had a fine, strapping figure,
and was, I judged, about twenty-eight or thirty
years of age. The voice of my friend said “ Mrs.
I itztalbot.” Then I was introduced to the men
at the table —I may say that I had left the sack
on the landing outside the door.
Glad to meet you, sir,” said a very large,
purple-faced gentleman with great protruding
glassy eyes. He spoke in a fierce, hoarse voice
as though, instead of giving me welcome, he were
asking me who the devil I was, and what the
devil I meant by it. And he ended his remark
with a deep guffaw that shook his stomach. It
was his usual way of talking, as I discovered later
on. This was Mr. Julloke, solicitor, but
long, long ago out of the running and reduced to
take up—when he could get them—small black-
eye and broken-nose cases on the chance of getting
paid out of damages if he won. But as, in spite
of dns thundering Johnsonian eloquence, he rarely
did win—chiefly because, as Fitztalbot told me,
the cases that came to him were nearly always
hopeless from the start —he was a permanent
member of the Castle garrison.
* * * *
“Captain Furbisher, late of the Royal Dra-
goons,” said Fitztalbot, with the air of a rich
collector who is showing a favored guest some
rare object of art. A tall, upstanding, broad-
shouldered man, with a heavy brown moustache,
got up and shook my hand in brusque soldierly
style. Captain Furbisher is at present con-
nected with the Produce Industry,” which meant
—so Fitztalbot told me in confidence later on—
that the gallant captain sold damaged potatoes on
commission.
* * • •
Just then I heard strange sounds as of growling
and cursing coming from another room.
It s only the Colonel,” said Fitztalbot in ex-
planation. And the others laughed.
Then I was informed that the distinguished
warrior in question was priming himself with
liquor behind a locked door. They did not seem
to think that his conduct was unbecoming in an
officer and a gentleman, though, from what Fitz-
talbot had told me at the foot of the stairs, I knew
that their mouths were filled with ashes and their
wames” with wind. The explanation of this
curious tolerance on their part was that the
Lionel was only mean when he was drunk.
When he was sober he was the most generous soul
alive—a reversal of the ordinary rule, but I have
seen several cases of the sort myself.
This was my cue to bring in the sack. I passed
it over to Fitztalbot with the request that he
would take out the contents. The shin of beef
came first to hand. I think it produced a greater
effect on Julloke the solicitor than on any of the
others. His great, globular, glassy eyes—like the
eyes of an amiable octopus—glittered with a fear-
ful, carnivorous joy and followed it hungrily as
Mrs. Fitztalbot took it and placed it in a large
boiler which stood in a corner. But the noble
apparition of the German sausage distracted his
attention, and he at once began to glare upon it
with fierce admiration. It had for him the mag-
nificent merit of being already cooked and fit for
eating. His face grew a deeper purple with ex-
citement as he watched for the result of the next
dip into the sack. And when Fitztalbot drew
forth a two-gallon jar, and I briefly remarked
Julloke’s emotions overcame him and
after remarking in a husky voice—“ Gentlemen,
this is the kindliest action that was ever done to
me in my life”—he subsided, with two large,
moist sobs, and said no more until the sausage
and the beer had made his heart merry again.
We all grew merry, in fact, and Mr. Smyborne
began to make dark allusions to the Afghan ex-
§loits of his father, the Major-General. ■ Mr.
myborne was a very tall young man, with a
weak chin and strong opinions. This, however,
was no great drawback to his social value, as he
had no opinions on anything outside of Afghan-
istan; and even those were not his own—they
were a legacy from his father, the military poten-
tate aforesaid. Smyborne had got through every
other sort of legacy, but he stuck to the opinions.
And so when Afghan affairs happened to be
spoken about at the Castle, Smyborne, by the
tacit consent of the others, took, and kept, the
floor. I get to knew and greatly like him in after
days. He told me, in confidence, that he was the
Black Sheep of his family. The other members
of the family must have been whiter than Mary’s
little lamb. Poor Smyborne! He had no busi-
ness in Bohemia. He eventually died of con-'
sumption and hard times, in the City Hospital.
Mr. Hynckes-Stanley I had seen upon a previous
occasion, though he was not aware of the fact. It
was late at night, and he was sitting on the steps
of a church, eating a cold saveloy and drinking
rum out of a lemonade bottle. I knew it was
rum by its smell, which smote me as I passed.
Hynckes-Stanley was merely an intermittent
remittance-man, but a very good fellow for all
that, as I discovered that evening. In fact,
before I left he asked me to join him in writing a
book, to be entitled “ Australia: As Seen from its
Kerbstones.” He said that it would sell like hot
cakes; but I informed kjm that I had taken a
large contract to write patent drug advertise-
ments, and therefore could not just at that time
close with his handsome offer.
The conversation grew vivacious and reminis-
cent. They were talking of the good times they
had in the Days Gone By. It is a habit acquired
by all broken soldiers of fortune.
“ Massingley was M.F.H. at the time when we
had that great run, finishing up at Copley Wood,
and I got into such a scrape for barking the knees
of the mount I got from Lord Tallybo. Gad ! I
fancy I’m back there again at times, when I have
a little liquor in me. Don’t you, Smyborne ? ”
Thus Captain Furbisher. To which Smy-
borne :
“Yes—but Massingley wasn’t M.F.H. at that
time, all the same. Byrd-Egerton was M.F.H.'”
And then the argument ranged all over the his-
tory of famous runs in the shires, and before it was
finished I felt as though I were personally inti-
mate with every member of the sporting peerage
worth mention.
Fitztalbot, during a lull, happened to say some-
thing about an incident that occurred at a meeting
of the Quorn. The Captain shook his head and
smiled. “No, Fitz, dear boy, it didn’t occur at
the Quorn. It happened at the Pytchley. I was
there myself that day with Jimmy Danvers, of
theColdstreams—you remember Jimmy?—and I
think you might permit me to know.”
And so on and so on.
And when the beer was finished—there isn’t
much drinking in a two-gallon jar shared amongst
five perishing men—l was not thirsty myself—the
gentlemen adventurers retired to rest on mat-
tresses laid upon the floor, and wrapped them-
selves in old overcoats and pieces of horserug.
But there were curtains at the windows of
“ Rat’s Castle,” and I never went there again.
CREEVE ROE.
The Inky Way.
“ Reading between the lies ” —a daily paper compositor
made a phrase in the leader lately.
♦ * » *
Said that the price paid by scare-head Pearson and
friends for Lond. Standard, the least scare-headed of all
London papers, was £700,000.
* * *. *
Thus a snake-skin merchant to the Adelaide Advertiser :
“ Snakes change their skins just as a man changes his
shirt—about three times a year—sometimes oftener.”
Does the ’Tiser only change its shirt three times a year ?
* * * *
J. W. Sutton, Melbourne Argus accountant, who,
the other day, celebrated 50 years of continuous service,
has just turned 80. He landed in Adelaide (S.A.) in ’39.
Only two of Sutton’s Argus fellow employees of ’54 sur-
vive—Rev. Mr. Hills and Mr. Robert Page, of Maldon
(Vic.).
* * * *
Dunedin (M.L.) has been making saxpence out of a
lively scrap between the local papers, which ended up
with the Times offering itself for 12 months at half-price
(Jd.)and throwing itself at every non-subscriber in the
town and suburbs for six months for nothing.
* » * *
Maurice Brodsky, who steered Melb. Table Talk for
some years, has left Melbourne and gone to America with
his family. Table Talk’s first issue contained contribu-
tions from David Blair, Garnet Walsh, R. P. Whitworth,
Grosvenor Bunster, and other well-known writers. But
Brodzky was only manager then, and had the money of a
syndicate to spend. When he became proprietor of the
paper he froze out his writers; and slowly the paper
drifted into the morgue of the Insolvency .Court.
» * » *
Reay, news-editor of Melbourne Herald, has joined the
considerable crowd of pressmen who have more or less
“gone on the land.” He has a substantial block out
Oakleig'h way, and in the moments when he isn’t licking
Bent’s grammar and other horrible tragedies into shape,
sees visions of a fortune. But unless Reay makes a better
fist at the game than most pressmen, there will be no
fortune, and he won’t be a farmer long.
* * * *
War correspondent Hales, crowded out of Manchuria,
has dropped in on Australia, and begins a lecturing tour
at Broken Hill, where, 16 years ago, he also began his
regular press-work. He was a wild daredevil in those
days, willing to fight anything and risk anything. His
most famous fight was with Everard Browne, now the
Western District (Vic.) squatting magnate. Pell, the
son of a Sydney ex-professor, watched proceedings on
behalf of one, and the son of a bishop was the other’s
friend. Browne won, but it was a great fight. Hales had
very little schooling and no regular press-training, and he
continued for years to have a contempt for all the rules of
spelling.
» * » *
Since Hopkins’ removal from the Westralian Lands De-
partment the reporter who used to accompany him on his
driftings through the alleged agricultural areas has been
put back to do city work on Hackett’s weird West Aus-
tralian. Hopkins’ reporter was recently told off to do
the picture of “ An Australian Girl,” and this is some of
what he wrote : —“Standing in a sunlit Australian pad-
dock a lithesome Australian blonde holds her summer
hat on against the rude caresses of an Australian breeze—
a subject simple, but grand in its simplicity. The girl
gently inclines against the wind, and from over her
shoulders the high sun limns her figure in gold and
creates enrapturing lights on the plicatures of the soft
white diaphanous material in which she is clad. In the
right foreground a eucalypt-sucker grows, a marvel of
fidelity.” Plicatures gently stirred in a diaphanous stew
and served with a sucker of eucalyptus should prove a
good camping-out dish.
* • • •
London Daily Mail publishes these as the prices of page
advts. in some of the London dailies: T.mes, £l5O and
£2OO (according to position) ; Standard, £l5O block, £l2O
type ; Morning Post, £l5O ; Daily Telegraph, £2OO block,
£l6O type; Daily News, £150; Daily Chronicle, £l2O
back, £l4O inside ; Daily Express, £l2O block, £lOO type ;
Daily Mirror, £4O; Daily Graphic, £5O; Morning
Leader, £100; Daily Mail, £350. A page in an Aus-
tralian daily costs about £5O.
* * * *
Towards the end of last year all the Irish reporters who
went to “do” a meeting at Rathmines, at which the
Lord-Lieutenant was one of the speakers, left the building
on account of the inadequate accommodation for the
press. There was a similar strike some years ago in Glas-
gow when the reporters in a body left a political meeting.
In Australia the reporters suffer and, as a rule, make no
sign. On one occasion, however, two Sydney pressmen
“stood on their dignity” and taught the Governor a
lesson in politeness. Augustus Loftus, who had been Bri-
tish Ambassador at St. Petersburg, brought a good many
Russian notions to Australia. In Russia the newspaper
man has no place in “ good society.” The old and not
unamiable Augustus gave a half-military, half-political
dinner at Government House. As there were to be
“important speeches” the two morning papers were
invited to send a reporter apiece. The Herald sent
Meggy; Jack Scantlebury went from the Telegraph.
Both men had on the wedding garment. But instead of
being conducted to the dining-hall they were shown into
a little side-room which was in a state of semi-darkness.
After a wait of some minutes the Governor’s private secre-
hiry came in to explain things. “ You are a little early,”
said the private secretary, “ but you may remain here
untU we are ready to start with the speeches. ” “ What are
wctodo then ?’’ asked Meggy. “ You will be all right,”
the private secretary. “I’ll get one of the waiters
to open this door a. few inches, and you can hear the
Speakers without being seen.” It was now Scantlebury’a
turn to speak. “ Are those the orders of the Governor ? ”
he asked. “ Oh, yes,” replied the private secretary;
“ that’s how his Excellency managed at his dinners in St.
Petersburg.” “ This is not Russia,” said Scantlebury,
“ and his Excellency has made an unfortunate mistake.”
Then two pressmen in evening dress left Government
House in procession. No report of the dinner appeared.
The Herald published nothing save a dead silence, but
the Telegraph came out with a scorching leader. Ever
since that protest pressmen have been remarkably well
treated at Government House, Sydney.
John Manson, in London Monthly JRe-
view for November, shows that the Salvation
Army keeps on declining in numbers, while Gen.
Booth keeps on increasing the number of officers
—over a paper army. The Daily News census
showed that the Salvation Army has the poorest
attendances of any denomination in London.
A JOKE FOR PRINTERS ONLY.
ADIPOSE COMP. : “Boy, run across and tell the
butcher I think his advertisement will look
much better in lower case than in capital
letters as he marked it.”
English Lancet delivers a final blow at
the tradition as to the bathing habits of the Eng-
lish :
Next to drink as a cause of impaired physique among
the poor we should he inclined to place dirt, sheer bodily
filthiness. With possible exceptions in the case of Thibet
and Lapland we are compelled to admit that the English
working classes are probably the dirtiest bipeds in the
world, alike in their clothes and in their persons, and that
they display themselvts in public, and even travel by
public conveyances, in conditions which would not be
tolerated in any other civilised country. In America, for
example, working men in factories demand, and are
supplied, with baths and dressing rooms, and they w’ash
and change their clothes before they leave their work and
go into the streets.
“ Alix” writes from Adelaide :
Can anyone explain the curious customs of the officials
of Adelaide circulating library ? They buy all kinds and
conditions of books. Then they fix on any that seem
clever enough to shock very anxious persons with green
goggles, brand them with a large red -“R.,” which does
not stand for righteousness, and put them away on a back
shelf, and say they are Restrict 4- I learned t’other day
that “True Eyes and the Whirlwind” was among these
felons of the library, and promptly demanded it next time
I went for a book. I quite expected to be asked for a
note from my parent, guardian, or interferer-in-general,
saj-ing I was a fit and proper person to associate with such
literature. But the book was handed to me without a
murmur, and I find a youngster of 18 has the same access
to restricted books as her elders. Therefore, I want to
know.
FERGUSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ferguson worked on the Shearers’ Sun,
Editor chief was he ;
Editor, sub. and staff in one,
Preaching democracy.
And picturesque was his ringing verse,
And his biting par. and his healthy curse,
And he wasn’t loved by the men of Fat,
But workers would wave a battered hat
To Ferguson as they passed.
He was the idol of rovers all,
Never without a thirst;
Never “ revoked ” or shirked his “ call,”
His was always the first.
And so he loved, and he drank and wrote.
In Bohemian way, till he got a note—
The bingied boss of the Daily Lie
Offered a job, and the wage was high
(How quickly a man falls in !).
For Ferguson “ ratted,” sad to say—
Batted without a word !
He sloped at six of a morning grey.
Nobody saw or heard.
He left a verse and a par. or two,
A line, “I couldn’t resist the screw.”
The boys were sorry, the barmaid cried,
The comp, wore crape when his old boss
died—
Ah ! dead as a corpse was he.
Ferguson writes for the Daily Lie
With his tongue in his shaven cheek ;
His Muse has flown, and his heart is dry,
And his stuff is mild and meek.
There’s a tall silk hat on his furrowed brow,
And the jargon of Fat he talketh now,
And seldom he lifts his greying head,
And well he knoweth his soul is dead
And interred in a living grave.
Tas.
C. LOUIS RANDALL.


TYPEWRITERS.
V
Typewriter.
THE MOST PERFECT MACHINE ON
THE MARKET TO-DAY.
LIGHTEST TOUCH (2Joz.) ; UNLIMITED SPEED.
World’s Record Holder—243 words per minute—St.
Louis World’s Fair, July, 1904.
Ambitious operators no longer hampered by
mechanical limits to speed.
As used by The Bulletin, Dalobtt & Co., Govt.
Offices, and leading firms and schools.
Sole Agents for Australasia :
The Lingham Importing Co. Ltd.
3 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
¥
I’m Hie Bleacho” Boy.
4tissi£
-r^
im
\
r
„ CLEANS
STRAWS
PANAMAS
m
'rfe£
HU Chemists*
Storekeepers.
LIKB
NEW
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales: THE
A.M. & I. CO., Ltd., 80 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Queensland : THOMASON-CHARTER, Limited, Brisbane
Victoria : JAMES B. COPLAND, Propy., Ltd.
And all Wholesalers.
= Premo
- Kilm S*ack -
ť
‘
N i l! ii !!i l
inffe ;|i
!i ' 1!
The Adapter. The Film Pack.
May be fitted by means of an Adapter
to any existing Camera at the cost of
a few shillings, and will enhance its
value at least SO per cent.
The simplest DAYLIGHT changing
device ever devised.
Send for Film Pack Booklet & mention this paper.
Kodak, Sxtd.,
284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
SAY!!!
Have you seen our
3/11 “Corn Cob”
Keyless, Dust-proof
WATCHES? They
are wonderful value,
strong, excellent time
keepers, and will last tor years. Have a look
at them for yourself.
CRAIG and AITKEN,
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists
and Fancy Coods Importers ...
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
4 Doors below Liverpool-street.
LUCAS’-^-*
PARIS CAFE
COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
Where Fashion, Style and Beauty
lunches, dines and sups in
elegant ease and luxury, and in
privacy, if required.
No connection with any business of the same
name in Melbourne or elsewhere.
LUCAS’
Hall Cafe
Swanston St., Melbourne.
Enticing Fare and High-Class
Style for the Million.
Luncheons, Dinners, Fruit
Luncheons and Teas that
tempt the daintiest appetite.
No connection with any business of the same
name in Melbourne or elsewhere.
$
To Avoid
CHOLERA, FEVERS
* DYSENTRY
USE
SANITAS
Disinfecting Fluid
Pronounced by the Medical
£he greatest
known
to . .
Science.
ABSOLUTELY NON-POISONOUS
AND FRAGRANT.
Spread it about the house and you\l be
Proof Against Disease.
So
The “SAKITAS" CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON E.
m
RUSES
C> Insecticide
X *2foK,i
Kills
)/ALL
NSECTS
go**
issiWm
ATIOMS
A
Ask
USES
FOR
i 5. »
THE BALLET GIRL
ŧ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Poet Free, is
The Life, Adventures
and Confesisions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frso, is.
lend stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
James Martin
and
Co.
HAVE THE MOST COMPLETE STOCK OF
Specially
Selected
GOlf and
Cricket Goods
EVER EXHIBITED.
GOLF CLUBS*' B ™ e c '* RT ,
BRAID, PATRICK, CANN and TAYLOR,
SCOTT, SMITH, NICHOL, PARK, and
GIBSON’S DEEP -
FACED
MASHIES.
The Best Clubs at Lowest Prices.
GOLF BALLS of
HASKELL (English), HASKELL (Scotch),
ARLINGTON, WIZARD, AGRIPPAS,
SPRINGVALES.
CRICKETERS,
SEND FOR
OUR PRICE LIBT.-W0
161 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
Phone 41. IT WILL PA Y YOU.
'EDISON 111
cote MOMOCO I
RECORDS ill
a
hJnoo**'
| E0H033M
OJOMOiJ OIOS
NDSI03
<2
EWSS
For EDISON
PHONOGRAPHS
and RECORDS
WRITE TO . . .
Edison Phonograph Supply,
T. & C. BUILDINGS,
Swanston Street, Melbourne,
Next Town Hall.
Catalogues and Price Lists Post Free.
I tori
THE NECESSITY
brushing the teeth morning and evening
becomes a pleasure if you use
<1
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder
with its delicate perfume and agreeable taste.
It preserves the teeth by thorough
and antiseptic cleansing, and also
gives them the requisite polish
without injuring the enamel.
Calvert’s Prickly-heat Soap
is very serviceable in hot climates as
a preventive of prickly-heat and other
irritation of the skin. It is pleasantly
perfumed and contains 10% Crystal
Carbolic.
These articles can be readily obtained from
most Chemists and Storekeepers.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
m
&
$
*
Line
juice
agents:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
J. Connell & Co.,
Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co.,
Newcastle.
a
a
RADIUM.
Supplies of this rare element
of the highest radio-activity now
on hand.
Also Applicators for use in
therapeutic work.
Prof. Spinthariscope, to
show the activity
of Radium
£1 ss.
Extract from letter received from a Queens-
land M.D. to whom we supplied a small quantity o
Radium: —“ I am happy to inform you that I have
had a successful case—a cure of rodent ulcer of 10
years’ duration, which has now practically healed
after about three weeks’ treatment with your tube
(containing Radium). For this the patient, who had
tried all manner of treatment, should be truly grate-
ful to your enterprise in importing the latest marvel.”
W.WATSON&SONS
78 Swanston Street,
MELBOURHE.
BE YOUR OWN BOSS!
And Double Your Income, without in-
terfering with your ordinary pursuits.
Many Make £3OO a Year.
For Full Particulars send this Ad. and
6d. in Stamps to . . .
•ij)» The Wenford Co.,
linden Court, Sydney
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. & GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREIT, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hull).
Country Orders by post.from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
r
'CONGREVES
BALSAMIC
LIXIR
FOR ASTHMA,.
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
k COUCHS, COLDS,
CONSUMPTION.
OP ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERS..
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price 6c1., Post Free..
From Coombe Lodge, Peckham, London, 5.. E.., England
“ UCRASYNE ”
Dr. DALE'S sure, lilent k swift Cure for
DRUNKENNESS
may be given te Hen or Women without their
knowledge. Removes all desire for strong
drink in a few days. Full partioulara Free.
Dr. J. T. DALE CO. r
Sabiel’s Chambers, SO Hunter-st., Sydney..
t
-DEAF
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which will be sent post
free on mentioning this paper.
FREE
TO MEN.
A reliable brochure,
“Words of Wisdom,”
showing’ how every man,
young or old, can be thoroughly and quickly
cured with the wonderful Homoeopathic
Treatment and Electro - Battery Appliance.
Send addressed envelope, and the book will be
sent post free. Address The Irving Institute,
corner Hunter and Bligh Bts., Sydney.
ţ
NO CURE NO PAY.
It will Cost you NOTHING to Try Our
IMPROVED and PATENTED ELECTRIC
BELTS for NERVOUS and other DISEASES.
Send for one AT ONCE, and PAY for it
within three months after you are SATIS-
FIED your CURE is PERMANENT..
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE C 0. v
63H ELIZABETH ST-, SYDNEY..
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tiled In vain every
advertised remedy, and at I*■* dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SALE
CURB, will forward tke saxnoo taae; cl
charge, to anyone interested#
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0.. SYDNEY^
with strong and
vigorous Nerves
move the World.
Here is a new life and hope for weak and despondent
Men. Overwork & Weakness lose their terrors under
the magic influence of the Homoeopathic
Treatment & Electro-BatteryApplance
Send addressed envelope and Dr. Irving!a Brochure ml
h« sent JFree sealed. Address—
THE IRVING INSTITUTE,
Comer HUNTJEB AND BLIfflH STBBBT3. ■YPWBT.
MANLY MEN
Douglas Sladen has been lecturing ift
Glasgow on Japan : . ; . '
There are two religions in Japan, Buddhism and Shibto»
and most of the Japs profess both. Shinto is the least
exacting in the matter of ceremonies and otherwise, and
for that reason is preferred during the life-time. As
most of the Japanese have rather a hard life of it, and
those dying in the Shinto faith are supposed £O. keep on
doing what they did in their life-time, the majority
arrange to die as Buddhists, in the hope of inheriting, the
negative blissfulness o» faithful adherents of the Buddha,
Thus Blackwood, conveying an obvious
moral :
As a nation, we (Britain) are exposing 42,000,000 of
people to precisely the same risk that now faces General
Kuropatkin and his 200,000 men in Manchuria. They,
have to draw the bulk of their supplies from centres
2000 miles distant. And any day they may be cut off
from those distant centres. What a different position
they might have been in if the surrounding country had
been able to support them ! We draw our principal food-
supplies from centres, not 2000, but 5000, 10,000, and
12,000 miles distant. Not only are we liable to be cut off
from them in time of war, but we are rapidly exhausting
them in times of peace. Meanwhile we allow our home
supplies to run to waste as the Russians did in Man-“
churia. Simply because we could buy American or
Argentine wheat a few shillings per quarter cheaper than
home-grown wheat, we sacrificed the years of labor and
millions of expenditure which had brought our wheat-
lands up to the highest level of fertility. With one hand
we transformed foreign deserts into gardens, and with the
other we reduced our gardens to deserts. When this
suicidal policy is abandoned, as it must be sooner or
later, it will take ye»,rs to restore our derelict farms to
the condition-in which they were when it was adopted.
Not only will a -reasonable measure of Protection from
foreign competition be needed, but there will be several
other requisites no less essential.


The Union Steamship Co. is about to pro-
duce, under the editorship of Mr. A. A. Brown, a
literary magazine, to be known as the Bed
Funnel. Whatever the U.S.S. Co. has under-
taken in the past it has done thoroughly, from
making beef- tea to navigation, so in all human
probability the Bed Funnel will be a good pro-
duction. *- .
It is a striking testimony to the appreciation of
• the well-to-do British for real, substantial comfort that,
in spite of the more gorgeous attractions offered else-
where, the Langham Hotel in London still more than
holds its own. Though perhaps in some quarters sur-
passed as regards outward show, one always experiences a
grateful sense of solidity and homeliness when within the
portals of the stately pile in Portland Place ; while the
advantage of the location of the Langham, commanding
one of the widest and finest thoroughfares is unequalled
in London. The Langham is a favorite resort of the fore-
most English county families, and is regarded as a per-
manent head-quarters by many colonial visitors to the
old country. Hence it is not surprising to find that the
demand for accomodation often exceeds the capacity of
the building, large though it be ; and among the many
important extensions and improvements recently made by
the management is an attractive annexe to the dining-
room, with which it is connected by numerous fine and
striking arched openings. The decoration of this
additional room, which will accommodate 60 extra diners,
is in a plain and agreeable style, and the illumination is of
a tasteful and effective character.*
Bendigo School of Mines.
ON PREMIER COLDFIELD OF VICTORIA.
A SSOCIATESHIP in Mining, Engineering and Metal-
lurgy. Certificates of Competency as Mine Manager
and Assayer. Special arrangements with principal mines
for practical training of Students. School Hostel for
Resident Students—Moderate Rates. First term begins
FEBRUARY 7th. Apply for Prospectus and all infor-
mation to—
G. ALEC THOMBON, M.A., Registrar.
APOLOGY.
To JOHN NORTON, Esq., M.L.A.
CIR,—We have to express our regret for the publication
of the following- paragraph in a weekly newspaper
known as the Radical, and printed by us, viz. :
“John Norton’s attack on the rottenness of the
City Council are discredited by his attempts when
last there to work a garbage destructor job.”
As a matter of fact, our distinct arrangement with the
proprietors was that on no consideration was anything
libellous to be inserted in the paper ; but, owing to a rush
of work at Christmas time, the libel in question escaped
our attention. We are no longer the printers of the paper,
and herewith tender a full apology for the libel com-
plained of, which we undertake to have published in a
prominent position in the next issue of the Sydney
Morning Herald, Daily Telegraph, Evening News,
Australian Star, Bulletin, The Sunday Times, The
Worker, and Truth. This being in consideration of the
withdrawal of the action as far as we are concerned.—
Yours, etc.,
29th December, 1904. MARCHANT & CO.
Missing: Friends.
WILLIAM MURPHY, brother of the late
MRS. CATHERINE SUTER, of St.
Peter’s, near Sydney, will hear of something to
his advantage by communicating with the under-
signed.
MESSRS. McDONELL & MOFFITT,
Solicitors,
George and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
Amusements.
SCOTTISH ENTERTAINER,
Miss Jean Howison, of Perth, Scotland,
Interpreter of
ROBERT BURNS and lAN MACLAREN.
Address : The Bulletin.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S Up-to-Date Australian Anecdote, with
Special Seasonal Scenario, entitled,
A DESPERATE GAME.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
Lyceum thea t r e, sydn e y.
Sole Lessee & Director .. Mr. GEORGE MUSGRO VE.
Manager Mr. C. B. Westmacott.
TO-NIGHT and FOLLOWING SEVEN NIGHTS, at 7.50,
PRETTY PEGGY,
by MISS NELLIE STEWART and Mr. GEORGE
MUSGROVE’S NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
The Succeeding New Production will be Clyde Fitch’s
New Original Play, entitled, BLIND MAN’S BUFF;
or, HER OWN WAY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices as Usual.
QUEEN’S HALL, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite CRITERION THEATRE.
Under Direction ot Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Every Afternoon, at 2.30. Every Evening, at 8.
Over Fifty Consecutive Performances have been
given of the
THE MARVELLOUS WILLIAMSON BIO-
TABLEAU and RUSSO-JAP. WAR.
This Record speaks for itself. Bear in Mind Our Re-
maining Performances are Limited.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON at' 2,
H.M.S. PINAFORE,
The Second Production of the GILBERT & SULLIVAN
SEASON, as
“ GREAT A SUCCESS AS EVER.”
Box Plan at Paling’s. (pgr - PRICES AS USUAL.
TIVOLI THEATRE, S Y D N E Y,
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Instantaneous Success of MDLLE. OLLIVETTE.
Intense Excitement Created by the Marvellous
MADAME MARZELLA,
and her Wonderful Performing Tropical Birds.
Great Success of THE FERNANDEZ MAY TRIO, a Novel
Musical Entertainment, introducing Paper-tearing ’
Extraordinary.
PROF. DAVY’S MARIONETTES, introducing the Harle-
quinade of a Pantomime.
Re-appearance of PESCHKOFF TROUPE, Russian Dancers.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBoIjTnE
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Great Success of MR. HARRY RICKARDS’
VAUDEVILLE COMPANY, including
GEO. HACKENSCHMIDT, World’s Champion Wrestler
Change Programme by LES FRASEITiS, Musical Novelties’
URECSON & COUDFELLoW, Society Entertainers *
TWO MAHERS, Irish. Spec.alty Artists, ’
DENIS CARNEY, Eccentric Comedian and Dancer.
ERNEST WISEMAN, WARD LEAR, IRVING SAYLES
TOM DAWSON, MAUD FANNING, KEARNS & ROSSLYN
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s «d, 2s, Is.
ggIJOU THEATRE, MELBOUR NE,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE WORLD AGAINST HER.
SATURDAY NEXT, JAN. 14, Mr. WILLIAM
ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATiC ORGANISATION.
Headed by MISS EUgENIE DUGGAN, in an Original
Powerful, Stirring Drama, entitled,
A SOLDIER AND A MAN.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is.
MICHAEL JOSEPH, Manager.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, Grand Production of WILLIAM
ANDERSON’S Gorgeous Comic Spectacular and Operatic
Xmas Pantomime,
SIN BAD TH E SAILOR.
Special Engagement—MlSS ELAINE RAVENSBURC, MISS
MAY POLLARD, FREU. GRAHAM, DEBT BAILEY,
CHAS. BATES. ’
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
J ULIUS GRANT, Manager.
g-|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING, Mr. WILLIAMSON’S
FAMOUS COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Ever-Popular Musical Comedy,
FLO R O ID CD R jSI.,
Many New Numbers, Novel Introductions, Up-to-
Date Travesties and Special Features.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES,
WEDNESDAYS.
p»RINCESS’3 THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45 sharp,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON will Present the Celebrated
Young Tragedienne,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE,
in the Great Napoleonic Play,
Xj’AIGrLiOIVr (The Eaglet).
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Princes’ Court, Melbourne ,
THE PREMIER PLEASURE GROUND OF
AUSTRALASIA.
CANADIAN WATER=CHUTE,
CAMEL=BACK TOBOGGAN,
Cafe Chantant, Mysterious Myosa, Great Dragon
Tugaroo, Rifle Range, Japanese Tea House,
Military Band. Daily, 2.30 to 11 p.m.
A. L. BAIRD, Gen. Manager.
A little reasonable criticism may help those who
vaunt so loudly the superlative importance of the strike
of stone in the 2200 ft. level south of the Long Tunnel
(Vic.). First, quartz crushed from admittedly the richest
stone on the Extended boundary went only 14dwt.;
secondly, a large portion of the formation from the
time the break was passed was mineralised slate
of doubtful value; lastly, the solid stone that
made at about 130 ft. in the drive, so far, lacks those
mineral-bearing seams which have been the making of
Cohen’s reef. Directors could help by having a battery-
test of the stone made, but Walhalla people don’t seem to
be built that way. Still, Victorians would throw up their
cap if the liick of the field stuck to the plucky old cham-
pion dividend-mine of the State.
* * * *
If there had been much dealing in Specimen
Hill, Bendigo, shares over the stone struck in co.’s 1635 ft.
crosscut west, the dogs of war -would probably have
growled. Quartz was met on Saturday, and no
firing down took place till Thursday. Holiday or
no holiday, there ought not to have been so long
a wait. When stone was exposed it was found to
be short of the precious metal. So now it is presumed
that it is not the New Argus make at all. The weakest
side of Bendigo mining is that, despite all the attention
paid to the field up to date, mine plans are practically
unknown. Consequently there is more guess-work about
operations than in any other centre of equal standing in
the universe. The new Mines Act says the plans have to be
kept. Will the co.’s comply with the law ?
• * * *
Williams Fancy, Berringa (Vic.), does capital
work. Stone averages 4dwt. 2igr., and yet mine is so care-
fully handled that, despite the small quantity of 10,000
tons treated half-yearly, a profit of from 4s. to 4s. (id. per
ton is steadily earned. Expenses during past year ranged
between 14s. lOd. and 15s. lOd. per ton, of which Is. 4d. was
for firewood. Wages and contract averaged a shade over
11s. per ton, and management was only sd. per ton. The
lesson taught by these figures seems obvious. To make
the mine do well, it should not be treated as a prospect-
ing show. Open it up vigorously, stop occasional divi-
dends, sample the lode formation carefully as developed,
and put on plenty of battery power. It is the way all the
big reefs at the Berringa want to be handled but the
rush to interferes with decent mining*.
Eighteen sluicing and two bucket dredges, plus
Francis Ormond deep • sinking, represent the sum of
Gastlemaine (Vic.) mining. Five more co.’s are under
way. Hydraulic sluicing costs anything from £B5 to £l2O
per week, but local people won’t’ have bucket dredges
though their costs are half that sum. Campbell’s Cl-eek
heavily-weighted show is responsible for this, though
Vaughan dredge is proving that buckets can do the trick.
Diggers don’t like either form of mining ; but the ground
is worth little else, it has been so often turned over.
* * ft *
A party of four Victorian working miners, who
had been granted £2OO from Bent’s surplus to help develop
their claim, sent it back the other day, saying they had
struck a, patch in the meantime, and as they could pull
along without it the coin might be passed on to someone
who needed it more.
* * * *
The Borough Council, Wanganui, N.Z., passed
the following resolution on Nov. 29th: “ That this
Council desires to compliment Mr. Mestayer, C.E. on the
successful completion of the Wanganui-Okehu’Water-
works scheme, at a cost of £60,000, the work being com-
pleted within the estimate. The council also desires to
express its appreciation of the Mephan Ferguson steel
pipes, and notes with satisfaction that all the joints are
sound, although upwards of 4600 were used over a length
of eighteen miles, in some places having to withstand a
pressure of 2881bs. to the square inch.”*
* * * »
Charters Towers’ share values had an appalling
slump during last year—from about £2,200,000 to barely
over £1,000,000. _ Worst disasters :
Close 1903. Close 1904.
Queen Cross Reef .. £620,000 £175 000
Queen Central .. .. 131,250 38,000
Queen Cross Extended .. 4,500 750
Marshall’s Queen.. .. 37,200 ' 7 200
Brilliant Central .. .. 292,500 87’500
Brilliant Extended .. 178,000 108’500
Day Dawn G.M 52,500 8 250
Vesuvius 36,250 5 208
Victoria and Queen .. 23,750 8,500-
In fact, apart from the Ruby group,.Day Dawn PC.
and Mills United, which about held their own.
and Golden Alexandra, Victory, and Wallis” D.D.
which showed substantial rises, there was crash and
tribulation all round. How rapidly the smash came, and
how badly prospecting and development work had been
neglected may be partly judged by the fact that the
market value of Q. Cross is now £45,000 less than the
amount paid in divs. during the year. Australia hasn’t
seen many such rushes to get the stuff out and coin-it
into dividends, to the neglect of almost everythin-- else
as the Towers experienced for about a couple of'years’
The bump ought to do the field some good. For a field of its
importance, its methods and costs have been almost
absurd ; both will now probably be radicallv chan-ed
though there certainly isn’t any very general disposition
to acknowledge that these things are possible. Mean-
time, Mills’ United looks to be about the most hopeful of
the older shows, while others around the Phcebe and the
Golden Alexandra may help to pull things out of the
mire. Many shows haven’t, however, recovered from
the shock of the boom-burst, and are either shut up or
are let out to fossicking tributors. Bonnie Dundee
Clark’s Brilliant and Kelly’s are among those on tribute ’
Brilliant Freehold, Elliott’s, and Victoria are under exemp-
tion ; and Ruby Queen and Papuan Block are shut up
latter co. having been liquidated.
♦*' • *
Charters Towers’ divs. for 1904 were £397 300
against £460,000 in 1903. They were dazzling figures like
these that caused the boom, how a mine which contri-
buted £220,000 of the whole £397,300 is valued altogether
at only £175,000. Things were made willing while they
lasted ; now the chances are they will swing too far the
other way.
* * * *
Tribute parties in the Brilliant, Charters Towers
where the fire was, have about 400 tons stacked below’
Co. has decided to re-timber the straight shaft. Royalty
from tributors will assist the co. to sink a new shaft at
Stockholm, three miles out. A plant is now on the way
Stockholm never had a fair trial. Stone there has a habit
of coming and going suddenly, but it’s mostly good when
it’s got.
* * * *
Gympie (Q.) turned into figures :
Stone. Gold. Calls. Dividends.
Tons. Oz. £ £
1900 .. 118,037 91,294 110,411 105 365
1901 .. 112,100 117,062 96,642 201 722
1902 .. 140,776 140,510 76,500 263,874
1903 .. 186,642 176,369 86,747 318,858
1904 .. 209,644 153,516 70,957 2.39,905
The gold output has been next to the largest on record
notwithstanding a serious slump in the value of the stone’
and the dividends amounted to only £1 2s. lOd. per ton
as ag-ainst £1 14s. 2d. the previous year, and £1 17s 6d
in 1902. For every oz. of gold won in 1902 £1 17s 7d was
paid ; m 1903, £1 16s. 2d ; last year, £1 11s. 3d. These
are not pleasant figures. And the situation isn’t
any better than the figures. Profitable produc-
tion is confined to a very few mines. Of the whole
£239,905 the 2 S. Gt. Eastern paid £113,400, the
Scottish Gympie £53,625, and the S. Glanmire and Monk-
land £39,000 —£206,025 between the three. The Scottish
Gympie has its head office in Glasgow, and very little is
said about the mine in Queensland. No. 2S. Gt. Eastern
is also largely held off the field ; it has passed its boom.
The whole Monkland end, in fact, depends largely upon
present exploration for a new (the third) bed of slate
which is now to be drilled for. There is no doubt a good
prospect of finding it (Gympie mines are still compara-
tively shallow ; this bore is to start at 990 ft.), but mean-
time Gympie will pretty certainly have a cold time. In
the days of its recent prosperity it didn’t do more than
half as much prospecting as the ease called for.
# * * *
New Ravenswood has been one of the most
successful Queensland mining concerns in J. Bull’s hands.
Authorised capital is £50,000 ; paid capital, until recently,
£35,559. Last year’s divs. were 10s. per share, equal to
50 p.c. on paid capital; and at the annual meeting, held
in London late in November, a first div. of 12£ p.c. for the
current year was paid. In four years £60,075 has been
cut up, equal to nearly £2 on each £1 share. Most Bull
flotations have been absurdly over-capitalised; this is one
of the rare exceptions. But the directors are going the
wrong way now, and have begun to issue more capital,
f° r plant, &c., that way, instead of out of profits ;
and the mine, like most mines, looks less able to carry
big- capital now than in the earlier stages. It
runs pretty closely with the Aldershot smelting works,
and thus gets better advice than most Q. co.’s have to
manage with.
* * * *
Spite of its good record hitherto, New Havens-
wood s record for the year shows a set-back. Co. does
not publish number of ounces of gold recovered
—simply gives tonnage treated and value recovered,
rrom this, it is seen that each ton of ore treated
has yielded £4 6s. lOd. ; previous year it yielded
to 15s. lOd. ; so, assuming treatment and recover}’ have
not varied materially, the stone has become poorer by
/dwt. per ton. This is a serious drop in gold values, and
coming just after the watering of the shares, is not com-
forting. Co. doubtless relies upon re-treatment plant
just erected to bring up its gold recovery ; but there’s a
limit to the quantity of tailings stone makes, and the re-
t reatnient, plant cannot hope to be always making things
* * * *
O.K. (N.Q.) Copper Co. proposes to start off
with monthly divs. of ss. Present output is 400
r^*o S Tna^^e ( a b°ut 78 per cent.) weekly, worth about
£lB,OOO per month. A rich development has been re-
ported, which has sent shares spinning up to £6 12s. 6d. ;
but the tempted ought to keep it pasted on their bedpost
that the development was no deeper than 80ft. It’s at
200 ft. or so that copper shows, nine times out of 10, tell a
different tale.
* * * *
The Northern Territory Mining and Smelting
Co. s Yam Creek properties are shut down, and the men
nave been sacked. The same mail that brings this news
brings news also that a vessel has arrived at Port Darwin
with a further big consignment of machinery for the co.
The consistent failure of every company-owned N.T. mine
which tries to work with colored labor isn’t much of a
recommendation for Ah Chow.
* * * *
Spur and Gabriel Gully, one of the oldest
M.L. flotations in London, can’t get out of the troubles
Vet!’? was landed 12 or 13 years ago. Formed in
los7, the co. soon got into low water, and issued 8 per
cent, cumulative pref. shares ; and the ordinaries have
had a cold time ever since. For years they got no div. ;
in 1900-1 they got a microscopic if per cent. ; since then
nothing, and the accumulations on pref. shares have only
been kept from mounting lately by the directors re-
nouncing’ their fees. When mining directors renounce
their fees it is time for shareholders to shiver.
* * * *
Subs : Yes; Perpetual for preference T.S.R.:
A very good mine, but the public don’t trust the crowd
behind it, for very good reasons.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Tenor Tapley, writing- to an Australian friend, says that
the Australian invasion is almost as much in evidence in
London as the American. He went to a Queen’s Hall
promenade concert one night recently. The singer, a
deep contralto with a majestic bust, was an Australian ;
a man standing near him in the promenade was looking
through a copy of The Bulletin. Presently Tapley was
prodded with an umbrella, the owner of which proved to
be Kay a, the Australian baritone, who has been figuring
in the Oarl Rosa Co. Kaya introduced him to Whitworth
Milton, not yet an Australian, but just starting out to
qualify. Milton warbles in Australia early this year,
under Williamson.
Anderson’s panto., at Melb. Royal, takes a bit of doing
and is not completed nightly till half-past 11 even
in the second week of its career. On New Year’s Day
the matinee ran to such a length that the people flowing
out from the day . performance got mixed up with the
early-comers for the evening show. Somebody had blun-
dered, and the two crowds boxed on the gallery-stairs
resulting in a battle-royal on the steps, and hair was
pulled and noses pushed, and'clothes were torn, and the
theatre echoed the wild cries of the combatants. The
incomers and the outgoers were drafted with great diffi-
culty, while the night audience made fierce and sarcastic
remarks about the managerial advice to “ come early and
avoid the crush.”
In staging the 400-year-old Dutch morality play,
“Everyman,” in Maorilimd, J.O.W. makes a determined
effort to feed the treasury rather than teach a higher
morality, or show an affinity between church and stage.
The idea is to get hold of the people who don’t give the
theatre anything, as a rule. The piece proved a failure in
theatres in Great Britain and America, but, done in town
halls, mechanics’ institutes, and such places, has drawn
all the “unco guid.” In M.L., Julius Knight (in Romeo
attire) is enthusiastic over the ancient dialogue. A young
man named Mr. Willey plays the Redeemer in a soft
, brown beard, a white' robe, and an armful of lilies; and
young ladies of the Christian Endeavor Society sav,
“ Oh, isn’t he beautiful ? ’’
The late J. H. Abbott, of Bendigo, was a theatrical
speculator in the early Ws. He took a lease of the
Lyceum Theatre, Bendigo, and R. S. Smythe’s second
venture in concert management was arranged on sharing-
terms with Abbott. Smythe has some lively recollections
of the time when he took the Bianchi Concert Co. to the
goldfields. Madame Bianchi and her husband, the tenor,
were fairly tractable, but John Gregg, the basso, was so
aggrieved at having to travel around in a waggon, like a
vulgah strolling playah, that he flew to the bottle for con-
solation, and when they arrived at one of their “ pitches,”
they had to deposit Gregg in the court yard of the pub.
and pump water over him until he was fit to sing in the
evening.
J. C. Williamson stated, the other day, that he had
“ L’Aiglon ” in stock for three years before producing it,
waiting for a suitable Aiglon to come along. “ Florodora ”
hung fire for two years because of the difficulty of filling
the caste. “ Sherlock Holmes ” also spelt trouble, and he
hunted England and America for a suitable Sherlock for a
year before he bagged Cuyler Hast.ngs. Now he has in
hand a number of strong plays, musical and dramatic,
awaiting the psychological man or woman.
The second of the Australian ladies’ quartettes to
tackle London (first one having broken up through inter-
necine strife and marriage and other feminine joys)
appeared at the Empire recently, and made a hit. The
quartette has some specially fine arrangements of old airs,
and is making the most of them. It has for business
man the popular Hugh J. Ward, whose wife is the
organiser and artistic guiding spirit of the show.
Miss Connie Buttell, of Sydney, formerly principal of
the Pollard Opera Co., was married lately to Mr. Louis
Schatz, one of the Chosen, who sells jewellery in Welling-
ton (M.L.) in a wholesale way. Another Schatz, Ernest,
married Lily Stephens, also formerly of Pollard’s.
Died the other day “ Professor ” Cunard, an old identity
among the side-showmen. He came to this country in
the ’7o’s with the Royal Illusionists, a clever quartette
consisting of Keller, Yamadeva, Linglook (a European
who passed for a Chinese), and the genial Cunard. In
later years the Professor, together with his wife, Helen
Gordon (operatic soprano), and their two daughters,
ran an entertainment which kept the family going
comfortably, and when “the Cunards” had ceased
to be a payable show, dad dropped into the
ranks of casual workers. For some time before
his death he figured in front of the Melbourne Waxworks,
looking- after the penny-in-the-slot machines and exercis-
ing a benevolent despotism over the small boys who
haunt the Waxworks vestibule. Needless to say, the
weary veteran left his family unprovided for. A few
friends raised some money to meet the immediate necessi-
ties of the case, and it is hoped that the Musical and
Dramatic Association will give a helping hand to the
womenkind of poor old “ Professor ” Cunard.
Molloy’s new theatre, His Majesty’s, at Perth (W.A.) is
fine, but the seats are too close for safety. Tom Pollard
opened the house with a well-mounted' and costumed
pantomime, “Forty Thieves,” full of good music and
pungent topicalities. “ Dryblower ” Murphy adapted the
libretto and revises it daily. The theatre holds about 3000.
“ V.D.” : Alice Barnett was the original Lady Jane of
“Patience,” but not in. Sydney—Andr6e Navarro first
played the character here.
Minnie Tittell Brune proposes to add Letty (Pinero’s
last failure), Zaza, and The Second Mrs. Tanqueray to her
repertory.
“Shade” : The restoration of Melbourne Royal recalls
the inauspicious re-opening of same house (then also
more or less restored) with the “ Dancing Girl ” comedy
in July, ’9l. Play was, perhaps, above the average, but
was more' fitted to a small house, like the Bijou, where no
wrinkle of facial expression is lost to the audience ; also
the company didn’t understand the piece. Melbourne
Royal ghost is ever a fine old melodramatic spectre
habitually clad in evening dress (even if a bit baggy at the
knees), and an opera cloak of inky hue, alike at noon and
midnight; and it does terrible deeds, accompanied by
■pizzicato passages on the violins. Coppin's comedy ghost
did not feel at home there. In the same July the Gaiety
co. extended its “ Cinder Ellen ” season at the Princess’s
from nine to twelve weeks, although Nellie Farren had
sat on a tin tack, and Ethel Blenheim, her understudy,
got a show—which wasn’t half a show, because Ethel had
to slavishly imitate the star.
In the “ perfesh ” it has been a generally accepted belief
that stage managers are the best swearers on earth, but
of lateit is admitted that the finest male artists in this
line are wiped out by a poor player of the opposite sex, a
dainty creature with a willowy figure and a nun-like face,
who holds the record for ground and lofty objurgation,
long distance profanity, paced or otherwise, and plain and
mixed cussing. , At the hotel where the lady is staying
they speak of her with awe as past-mistress in an art that
has had no conspicuous female exponent since the
spacious days of Queen Elizabeth—those days which had
to be spacious to give Elizabeth room to whirl her
vocabulary.
Melodious Dani, of the resounding top C, was engaged
along with Caruso for the autumn opera season at Covent
Carden, but failed to turn up, and after the first week his
name ceased to figure on the bills. No explanation was
given, Dani not yet being a big enough tenor to necessi-
tate explanations by the Covent Garden management,
but presumably he performed his old trick of missing a
boat or a train or something. While Dani was in Aus-
tralia it required all Williamson’s resources to make
certain that he wouldn’t be missing at the last moment.
One, time the top C artist failed to catch his boat, and at
the best he was never visible until within a minute before
the boat departed. Even then he had generally forgotten
his music or his dress-suit or something, and there was
the dickens of a job foraging round for things that would
fit his globular frame.
“Bushie” : What will they be working
for directly? Struck a brickyard near Hobart.
Wages ss. Gd. for hours. Down the Huon. I
was' offered a job, at draining, 4s. Gd. for nine
hours.
An agonised man from out-back fell into the
detective office at Melbourne the other day, utter-
ing a doleful cry, and told how he had sold his
farm for a large sum, come to the city on his way
to Europe, consumed rnor'e beer than he could re-
member, and awakened from a period of oblivion
to find himself a penniless wretch. The desolated
agriculturist had vague ideas of ‘ fellows ’ with
whom he had consorted in the misty middle-
distance of his recollections, but he could give the
detectives little to go on. However, a detective
went into the city and traced his footmarks back
from one hotel to another, and eventually tracked
them to the railway station cloak room, where all
the lost money and valuables had been deposited
in a hat-box in the care of a paternal Government.
The wanderer had fallen up against an honest man
who had confiscated his property and put it in a
safe place without fee or reward. If that man
could be found there ought to be quite a rush for
his services in commercial life.
Better to Make a Fight.
When the good knight, Don Quixote, hung by
his wrist from the stable window, he imagined
that a tremendous abyss yawned beneath his feet.
Presently the thong was cut, and the gallant
adventurer fell four inches. Many others, before
and since his day, have had similar experiences.
Black clouds, seemingly full of lightnings and
thunder, have drifted harmlessly over our heads.
Calamities, when they really come, are often found
much less dreadful than we feared them to be.
May not this be true also in respect of that
inevitable event, death ? After much observation
Pliny avowed his opinion that the moment of
dissolution was the most exquisite instant of life.
The majority of us, however, find life eminently
worth living, and make a gallant fight for it
accordingly. This was what a woman did, and
she came out a clear winner.
Mrs. Rose Lynch, who lives at No. 15, Morton
Place, Carlton,. Mel bourne, is the picture of health
to-day. She and her husband formerly kept a
dairy farm in Gippsland. In a letter addressed,
on January 11th, 1004, to the proprietors of Mother
Seigel’s remedies, she said:—“For a very long
period my life was made very wretched by chronic
indigestion. My food seemed to stick half-way
down in a hard lump, causing great pain and
distress in the chest. I could keep nothing in my
stomach, and suffered from headaches, giddiness,
and general debility. I tried many remedies, but
none appeared to suit my case. I was then living
in Gippslapd, and about four years and six months
back, when visiting my brother-in-law, at Yarra-
gon, in turning over the contents of a chest I
came aeross a half-emptied bottle of Mother
Seigel's Syrup.”
“I saw it was intended to cure indigestion,
and as I had the disease in a very acute form at
the time I thought 1 would try the Syrup. The
effect was magical; it gave me immediate relief.
I continued to take it, gaining in health, strength,
and cheerfulness all the while. Very soon every
symptom df indigestion left me, and my health
was completely restored. Now I eat well, sleep
well, and work well, and all this improvement is
due entirely to Mother Seigel’s Syrup.”
Here we have undoubted evidence that a win-
ning battle can be made for life and health, in the
face of doubt and discouragement, and after the
failure of other treatment.*


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your linger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. 1 don't say psrhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitic,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, In Great Britain, 1/lid. per box. Prebared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on ■
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
The Crowning Triumph
ť
-NATURES
PLEASANT.
LAXATIVE"
SB
THE ORIGINAL
AND
genuine;
1
0
of modern medicine lies in the
pleasantness of its great reme-
dies. This is exemplified by
the unparalleled popularity of
| California Syrup of Figs, the
pleasant natural laxative, of
which millions of bottles are
sold every year. It is made to
do pleasantly, gently, naturally,
that for which violent purgatives
were too often used with harm-
ful effects upon the system. It
is a tonic, a strengthener as well
as a cleanser of the liver, kid-
neys and bowels, and its use may
be discontinued as soon as the or-
gans are cleansed and corrected.
WORDS OF ADV3CE. —Ask for California Syrup of Figs, 'and
see that the package bears the name of the California Fig Syrup Co.
Imitations are numerous, but as you value vour health you cannot risk
taking a substitute. Of all Chemists.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATEK.
adi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
Professor Iramermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
** Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un*
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. — A wineglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with 9
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION-
Note the name “ Hunyadl Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor*
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Hedallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Waltham watches
/
12,000,000
WALTHAM WATCHES ARE NOW
IN USE. ALL ARE GUARANTEED BY
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH
COMPANY. WALTHAM,
MASS., U. S. A. THIS COM-
PANY IS THE LARGEST
WATCH MANUFACTURING
CONCERN IN THE WORLD.
THE “MELBA” ACCORDEON
ŧ
VVfE do not recommend the “ fIELBA ” because it is lower in price
”” toan others, such may be true, but because the “ iIELBA ”
excels all others in the most important quality an instrument can
possess—TONE.
This is the result of the superior quality of the alloy used in the
reeds, and the employment of experts in reed “ voicing',” an art which is
imperfectly understood by the ordinary maker of Accordeons.
The “fIELBA” ACCORDEON, No. 717, is fitted with three
sets of reeds, nine fold double bellows, leather lined corners fitted with
metal protectors.
To anyone mentioning Tub Bulletin we will send the above Post
Free for 205., including Carl Bruno’s Accordeon Tutor, containing
Popular Songs, Waltzes, &c.
ALLAN’S, 276, 278 Collins-street, Melbourne.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
0
«!
wt
MOSQUITOES.
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A. 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott tiros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwado & Co.,
Melbourne.
t
ţ
ť
ŧ
Beauty Smiles on HURST'S BOOTS.
8.8. 799.
Ladies’ Black Glace
Kid Button Boots,
Welts or
Pumps.
1716.
A. A, 130.
Gentlemen’s Box
Calf, Terrace
Soled Welts.
8.8. 700.
LacHes’ G/ace
Kid Balmorals,
Welts or Flimps.
1616.
A.A. 171.
Gen tie men’s
Glace Kid
Balmorals, Welts.
19/6 .
Sr
% -3- /
. f
t r
l
:‘JU.
I
7
:\.
r y •
*
s
r ■■
X %
V:
ROBT. HURST can supply Boots of the best
material, style and value because he is the largest
Manufacturer and Retailer in the Commonwealth.
ROBT. HURST’S FACTORY at Queen’s
Parade, North Fitxroy, employs 300 hands, and
the immense success of the 20 Branches in Melbourne and
throughout Victoria is based upon giving every satis-
faction to the public.
Visitors to Melbourne should call and inspect our
Flinders and Swanston Streets branches. We want to
supply country residents by Mail, and send all orders post
and duty free to every State except W.A.
Our Mail Order Address is—
Robt. Hurst,
QUEEN’S PARADE,
North Fitzroy, Melbourne.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
Backblocks Table-talk.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WALKED into the shilling, and only, table
in a pub. at , and was informed that
no seats were reserved for boarders, and that
I could sit anywhere. Said they “ weren’t blanky
toffs there.” I took my place. A big bearded
man, in his shirt-sleeves, walked in, and remarked
to the landlord, who was eating peas with his
knife, “Howwasyer?” The landlord said, “It’s
no use o’ grumblin’.”
The young lady who deigned to wait at table,
and who wore a dirty collar, placed a cup of unin-
viting tea beside me. It was 112° in the shade.
My next neighbor was studiously making as
much noise as he could by vigorously stirring his
tea, and the man opposite was knocking salt off
the end of his knife with irritating taps.
Then the butcher’s man, with blood on his
apron and scraps of flesh hanging promiscuously
about him, came in and said to the publican,
“ How was yer ? ” and again Bung replied, “ It’s
no use o’ grumblin’.”
The landlord’s son (12 or thereabouts) said,
“The schoolmaster says the sun is nearer the
earth in winter than in summer. Is that right.
Dad?” Dad looked at him: “You eat your
blanky victuals. It won’t make no difference to
the blanky sun what the blanky schoolmaster
says. He blanky well owes me 12 bob for drinks,
the cow, and I seen him boozin’ at Ryan’s to-
day.”
The old pensioner, who had been, he said, a
bookkeeper, looked philosophical and remarked,
slowly, “I don’t know, but the moon’s reflection
on the tide has a good deal to do with things.
Don’t you think so, mister ? ” The landlord said,
“Leave the gent alone. We came here to eat, not
to skite.” Then to me: “You look hoff your
hoats, young man.”
I was “off my oats.” The rate at which the
butcher’s man knifed hunks of meat into his
mouth without accident fascinated me; and his
generally gory appearance was not good for my
appetite.
“ When’s your assault case coming off, Bill ? ”
“ Termorrer.”
“ What did you plug him for ? ”
“ Well, he was chippin’ and chippin’, and I
stood that; and then he started snoutin’. Wasn’t
I right, mister, to bash him when he started
snoutin’ ? ”
I said I knew what chippin’ meant, but what
was “ snoutin’ ” ?
“Doin’ this,” he said, poking his nose unplea-
santly near to nay face.
“Yes, under the circumstances, I suppose you
were,” I replied.
“Never mind the blanky circumstances. I
know I was,” the man said. Then —“Are you
too d d flash to eat with us ?”
“ He’s horff his hoats, Bill. Be quiet,” said the
landlord.
A man at the end of the table said, “ You’ll be
fined a month nohows. I know all about the law
and Digby Grand, and you’re fined a month
certain.”
I got up, but before leaving the room asked
the waitress if she knew where I could get some
washing done. She looked at me with mighty
scorn and said that when she had time she would
show me where a washing lady lived.
F.L.O.
“Gr.Y.” : Was one time on a steamer Tun-
ing round the South Sea Islands, and when 23
mile 3 from Killi-killi sighted a small cutter be-
calmed and flying distress signals. The captain
altered his course, and sent a boat alongside. The
owner of the cutter requested to be towed to Killi-
killi, where he had 35 tons of copra he would sell.
The skipper took the cutter in tow and eventually
reaohed the island, and sent ashore three boats
with bags and shovels to bring off the copra. In
a few minutes they returned and reported “no
copra at all.” After the captain had finished
swearing he pulled across to the cutter and in-
quired “ Where the blank blank was the blanky
copra?” “What! Ain’t there no copra there?
Well, that’s £3OO I’ve lost by them there goldarned
crabs. And the skipper could not even gasp.
He merely jumped into the boat and said “Give
way and be d to you.” It was a good device
for a cheap tow.
A strange trouble struck a south suburban
State school in Melbourne the other afternoon.
The preliminary symptoms manifested themselves
in a stricken look on the faces of a large number
of small male pupils, a look that deepened into a
grey and jaded anguish. Then suddenly one
youth shot up, and declared, in an agonised squeal,
that he wanted to go home. In the midst of the
inquiries that followed, that particular boy be-
came ill to the verge of enthusiasm. This was the
cue to half a score of unfortunate kids in the same
room, who asked piteously to be relieved from duty.
Teachers running for assistance found similar
awful conditions prevailing in the other rooms,
and the whole school was given over to confusion
and groans. K earing that the school water supply
had been poisoned, the head master comman-
deered a regiment of doctors, armed with stomach
pumps, and after the school was soothed and the
disturbing element removed, it was ascertained
that the ailment was due to a decanter of sugar-
coated pills which an enterprising young ruffian
had stolen from the shop of an adjacent chemist,
and distributed among his comrades as lollies.
In 1892 the death-rate among children
under 5 years of age in New York city was
96 ‘2 per thousand. In that year Nathan Straus
opened depots for the sale of pasteurised milk
to the poor at a trifling cost; the death-rate
promptly got down to 54'8 in 1903. Now Straus
suggests providing doctors to give free advice to
mothers as to correct feeding, especially preparing
milk for children.
Comforting conclusions in regard to the
British army, come to by an expert, Dr. Miller
Maguire, and published in a recent review:—
Every kind of evidence establishes three points:— (a)
That even since 1899 the standard of education among
the officer class has deteriorated, and is now so bad as to
be absolutely contemptible ; (6) that this deterioration in
mental power is a danger to the State, and has hampered
our efforts in military enterprises, including the wars in
Somaliland and Thibet; (c) that not only are we ineffi-
cient, but that our inefficiency as compared with that of
other and rival nations is daily increasing.
Some people on the Parramatta River
(Sydney) are called “ grasshoppers ” because
they go up the river to see their girls, and
come home by the last boat. The boatmen
don’t like that because sometimes they must stop
the ship for one grasshopper, and then they are
late at the quay, and they miss their tram. When
a boatman sees only one grasshopper on the wharf
up the river late at night he sings out “ Why
don’t you get married ? ” and if the grasshopper gets
angry he can’t find the man who said it. The
last boat from town is different. It is for the
drunks, and they are all together. They come on
board, and put their feet in their hat to save the
deck, and talk to anybody, and the boatman likes
them. Sometimes they sleep all night in the
waiting-room on the wharf where they get off, and
get paint on them, instead of going home. But
the boatman don’t mind that. Perhaps it is best
not to be a grasshopper, or, if you do, not to hop
on the grass too late, or you get yourself disliked.


Welcome News
Indeed.
.Let us introduce to your notice to-day some of
the newest and prettiest Flower Vases it has ever
been our good fortune to obtain exclusivo control
of. They are exact reproductions of Solid Silver
designs—they are in Silver Plate of A 1 quality, and
judging by the flimsy appearance of many a Solid
Silver Vase we see about nowadays, they will out-
last a good half-dozen of them. They are in the
three sizes most in demand—and weighted so that
they cannot tip over.
PRICES, 8s 6d, 9s 6d, 100 6d.
A Dozen
of Idttle Things.
Just the things you want every day in the week,
but seldom have an opportunity to get such good
qualities so attractively priced.
Silver-plated Orange Peelers, Is 6d each.
Silver-plated Cake Forks, 2s. each.
Silver-plated Plate Handles, 4s 6d each.
Silver-plated Jam Spoons, 2s 6d each.
Silver-plated Butter Knives, 3s 6d each.
Silver-plated Bread Forks, 3s each.
Silver-plated 'J' a Infusers, 3s (5d each.
Silver-plated Tea Strainers, 7s 6d each.
Silver-plated Hot Plate Lifters, 4s each.
Silver-plated Bread Knives, 8s 0d each.
Silver-plated Salad Servers, 7s tid pair.
Silver-plated Knife Rests, 5s pair.
Mail Orders Oarfeully Executed.
Yesterday Was,
To-Morrow May Be.
To-day IS your opportunity to get one of the
daintiest and prettiest things for the Breakfast
or Afternoon Tea Table ever offered, at a price
that may never happen again. The reason for this
Special Offering is, during stocktaking we dis-
covered carefully packed away a big’ parcel of
Small Solid Silver Engraved Blade Butter Knives.
On the same day we got delivery of three dozen of
the sweetest little fine-quality Silver-plated Butter
Dishes with glass linings, we have ever seen.
Curiously, they came without knives. We at once
decided to put the two lots together, as they
suited so well. You’ll like them. Dish and Knife
for 10s 6d.
A Hat Fin
For the New Hat.
Don’t spoil the effect by using Common Hat
Pins, when really beautiful Hat Pins can be bought
here for such little money. One or two of these
should just about suit mo >t people.
Mother-o’-pearl, Gold-mo.cited .. .. 4s 6d
Real Ivory, Gold-mounted 4s 6d
Gold Circle, with Emu Centre 7s 6d
Real N.Z. Greenstone, Gold-mounted .. 7s bd
Gold Circle, Kangaroo Centre .. .. 7s 6d
Silver Butterfly 2s 6d
Assorted 18-ct. Gold-filled 3s, 4s bd
Skip Nothing in this Advertisement.
The very thing you want urgently may be described in the smallest
type. The values are strong enough to need no display or argument.
Remember we post them FREE on receipt of remittance. Write for
our Price Lists-a Post Card will do.
If Gold Decreased in Value,
We eoulcl make
These Prices Less.
That’s about the only way vou could buy Eng-
lish Hall-marked Gold Chains'for less. The Hall
Mark is the one guarantee no one can dispute,
consequently, if you would buy with the assurance
that you have the genuine article, buy one of
these.
That Smart, Gentlemanly Style The Curb,
Pocket to Pocket, with bar and 2 swivels, £3, £3
10s, £4 10s, £5 6s, £0 10s,- £7 17s tkl. YOUK
particular fancy as to weight is amongst these.
Mail Orders Carefully Executed.
The “Anchor”
Brooch.
A Nove’ty, this—made of the prized stone of the
Natives of Muoriland—the New Zealand Greenstone,
combined with Solid Gold correctly-designed,
beautifully made and finished. Price, 17s Gd.
Yon’U like it when you see it. If this design does
not appeal to you, write us for a copy of our little
Booklet of Greenstone Jewellery. It is a pretty
little Booklet, printed In Green and Gold. You’ll
like it. It's Free.
Solid Gold
Cuff Links.
Solid Gold sounds healthy, but things are not
always what they seem. A piece of gold a sixty-
fourth of an inch thick might .truly be called Solid
Gold, although to the average ipind the words con-
vey a different meaning. Now; these links are
really Solid, Thick, and Substantial Oval Pieces of
9ct. Gold, with Strong Chain Connections—Links
for the wear and tear of the/average man’s life, and
good for years of service, lfrice, 265. Monograms,
one for each side, 2s 8d extra.
Stewart Dawson
Watches
are not made to compete with the ch \;■> w ; ches in
prioe, but they do enter into competitor i \.Ji every
watch as to quality, and never fail to make a good
showing.
Men’s Keyless Levers, Steel Hunting Cases, 30s.
Lady’s Keyless Levers, Crystal Steel Cases, 455.
Men’s Keyless Levers, Silver Hunting Cases, 40s.
Lady’s Keyless, Engraved Silver Hunting Case,
50s.
Men’s Keyless Waltham Levers, Silver Hunting
Cases, 70s.
Lady’s Keyless Waltham Levers, Silver Hunting
Cases, 80s.
For others seo our “ Watch Book,” 48 pages of
interesting illustrated particulars. It’s free.
Mail orders carefully exeouted.
It Pays you to
Pay a Fair Price.
No matter what you buy—if you pay a ridi-
culously low price for an article, you simply buy
rubbish ; and rubbish never pleased anyone yet, no
matter how little the prioe was. You forget that
the price paid was simply equivalent to the artiole
you bought. Now and again for some reason or
other articles of quality can be bought at extremely
low pricos, but the opportunity has to be grasped
quickly, or it Is gone. A case in point—Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver, a pretty China Cake or
Fruit Dish, looks 15s worth, but offered to-day at
7s fid. If posted Is extra.
Some Dainty
Silver Flower Vases.
Stocktaking discloses the fact that in three lines of
Silver Vases we are considerably over-stocked. One
can’t gauge the public fancy accurately every time,
and when we make a mistake, we are ready to pay
for it. You will help us by taking some at these
prices ?
Solid Silver, plain but graceful, 14s 6d, now 11s 6d.
Solid Silver, Crinkle Top, 13s 6d, now 10s 6d.
Solid Silver, plain, straight, lls 6d, now 8s fid.
A somewhat different
Present for a Man!
It is a difficult matter at any time to buy a gift for
a man—one that he is likely to use and appreciate
when using, but when it comes to buying - for a man
who already possesses all the usual things likely to
be given as gifts, the difficulty is increased con-
siderably.
THIS FILLS THE BILL.
A Handsomely-designed Solid Silver full-size
heavy-make Dessert Knife and Fork, beautifully
engraved, cased up in Morocco and Velvet. Price,
£1 os.
The most Popular
Trading Place
in Sydney.
Because we make your buying easj'.
Because —Quality Considered—our Prices are the
proven lowest in the City.
Because the Stock to select from is the Largest
and Newest.
Because we work hard to merit your patronage.
These hints of things not to be got elsewhere :
Solid Silver and Greenstone Heart Trinket
Box, price 355. Od.
Ivory Nail Files 3s. Od.
Ivory Nail Trimmers Os. fid.
Ivory Nail Knives 3s. Od.
Ivory Nail Polishers 2s. Gd.
Ivory Nail Polish Boxes .. .. 4s. Od.
Silver-Plated
Bread Porks.
The kind that adds to the maker’s reputation,
and ever afterwards pleases the buyer :
All Silver Plate 35., 6s. 6d., Bs. 6d.
Plate and Stag horn 7s. 6d.
Carved Ivory 11s. 6d.
Carved Pearl 13.7. Ci.
Fancy Xylonite 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d.
Long Pearl 14s. Gd.
Plain Ivory 3s. Od.
All Solid Silver 9s. 6d.
Pearl and Solid Silver 7s. 6d.
The “Lucky Boot”
for Bridesmaids.
Something quite uncommon is the Boot Lace Pin
we are now showing. Carved out of a piece of New
Zealand Greenstone, with Gold Chain and Pin.
Just right to give to the little bridesmaids. Suit-
able for any woman or girl, as well. So well has
the carving been done that you will wonder—with
us —how they can be sold at the price, 12s. 6d. each.
ONE of the Uses to which
THE GRAMOPHONE may be put.
Nowhere Is the Gramophone heard to greater advantage than when played across the
water on a still summer’s evening. All the tone and quality of the great Artistes' voices come
gently swelling over the echoing water. There Is no need to breathe the vitiated air of the
crowded theatre or concert hall. On the river bank where there
is peace the Gramophone brings you the best music you could
hear from far-off cities.
There are people still, who, having heard some
old-fashioned and long out-of-date talking
machine, think that the Gramophone is
inartistic.
Play the Gramophone in the wrong key, or
play Records which are entirely out of sympathy
with the audience, and possibly even to-day
you will create a bad impression with the
Gramophone.
BUT—play the Gramophone properly as a
musician would, what is the result ? You delight-
the musical critic and you entertain your friends.
Who shall criticise the Gramophone when
Edward Lloyd writes :
“ I am content that future generations shall
judge my voice by the Gramophone.”
On receipt of a postcard we will send
Catalogues of Gramophones and Records
and the name and address of the nearest
dealer in our Gramophones. Gramophone:
Records, and genuine Gramophone Needles ,
sold only in metal boxes with our trade-
mark picture, “His Master’s Voice,” on
the lid.
cs-
< r \&\
* - 4 *
r<*
--"^T
*35
<2# er>
“3
%
£».
&
sfe
5b
>£--r\r:»
o^4
a*
I
£
*v*
<3*
K
*--y
V /■
y Mk
**
I
'n
m
V, <
m
pm
•\\
4f
*
I
v
Y v \
«
sr^
w v -
-9
' . \>
\ 'V
V-
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
London, Berlin, Hanover, Paris, Vienna, St. Petersburg, Brussels, Amsterdam,
Milan, Lisbon, Calcutta, Barcelona, Capetown.
. AGENTS .
Victoria—
-A. 3*. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.
SHEINDORFF BROS*., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
iMew Zealand— (
ffl. GENTILES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
W. MACLEAN & (JCK, 37 Crawford-street, Dunedin.
T. HOLTOiN, The Tajjlepries, Willis-street, Wellington.
Tasmania—
JOHN JOHNSTON, 129 Liverpool-street, Hobart.
A. W. MAYHEAD, Brisbane-street, Launceston.
South Australia—
MESSRS. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-street,
Adelaide.
Westralia—
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
9 9j
TRADE 9 AV. (MARK
This Trade Mark appears on every
Gramophone and Gramophone Record.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.—OnIy Genuine GRAMO-
PHONE NEEDLES must be used for playing
Gramophone Records. No Genuine Gramophone
Needles are sold in Paper Packets. Such Needles
‘His Master’s Voice."
spoil the
tone and
ruin the Re-
cord. The
Genuine
Gramophone
Needles are
sold ONLY
in a Metal
Box bearing
our Trade
Mark Pic-
ture.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MOHEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and O.P. fC mblned) r istoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, InssritLd Stoc* or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST-
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. 'w Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Wixchcombe, Esq., M.L. A.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F S S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ir*
I,
.% w. . fel:
it* W :
•'*
I
t*£>AV
• ||| jj
V " S' 1 I I
U JmZT
160 Horse-Power Eleotrlo Plant, operating at
The Cathcart Proprietary Cold Mine, Ararat, Victoria.
Ganz & Co.
LIMITED
BUDAPEST, HUNGARY.
Complete Electric
Lighting , Power and
Traction Plants .
SOLE AUSTRALIAN ACENTS—
The Austral Otis
Engineering Co.
-Cr. Hannah & Kavanagh Sts., South Melbourne. LTO -
i
t
ţ
ť
Wire Cloth Weavers.
Makers of all Kinds ~
In Steel, Iron, of Wove Wire
Oalvanlsed, Copper, and Brass.
« ■. -
WE fIAKE A SPECIALITY OP
HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
We have the BEST MEN and
LATEST MACHINERY.
We would be pleased to get in communication with
those interested in Wire Cloth.
WE WILL BE FOUND QUICK, CIVIL, OBLIGING AND CHEAP.
EfISTWAY BROTHERS,
ŧ
t
ţ
ť
409 # 411 GEORGE ST., SYBNEY
factories: 633 A Georg# Bt., and Albion Lane.
P.O. Box; Telephone 2076.
\«*
m
IPS'
FISHING
Only the Highest Quality
Fishing Tackle stocked.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST,
SEND FOR OUR LISTS.
WE HAVE SUPPLIED ANGLERS
FOR FIFTY YEARS.
WE ARE PURELY AND SIMPLY
A FISHING TACKLE SHOP.
EASTWAY BROTHERS
409 & 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPIRO for PERSPIRATION.
SPIRO POWDER should have a place on the Toilet
Table of the well-dressed woman and the well-
groomed man. It is an odorless, pure and anti-
septic Toilet Powder, which, when dusted on the dress
shields, body, feet, or clothing, completely destroys all
odor from Perspiration. Think what this means
to you ! '
SPIRO POWDER does not in any way check per-
spiration—it simply prevents the unpleasant odor.
Soap and water make you sweet and clean— SPlßO
keeps you sc.
SPIRO heals and cools SORE, SCALDED, BURNING
and OFFENSIVE FEET. Cures CHAFING and
PRICKLY HEAT. A Great Relief for ECZEMA.
Ask your Chemist for it, or send 1/3 for a box—Post Free.
Manufacturer’s Guarantee on Every Box.
THE AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, LTD.,
Camden Buildings, 418 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
3
FOR A DAINTY LADY.
DYSPEPTIC DEBILITY
A HARROWING TALE OF SUFFERING AND A
THANKFUL TRIBUTE FROM ULTIMO.
The Case of Mr. V. BORWICK,
(•By a Sydney Reporter.)
Mr. Victor Borwick is a storekeeper
who has his business premises and re-
sidence at 286 and 288 Crown-road,
Ultimo, and although he could have
been found at this address any time
during the past eleven years,it was not
till lately that a reporter had occasion
to pay liis establishment a visit, “the
reason for calling,” as the scribe ex-
plained, “being to get some informa-
tion respecting a widely-known recov-
ery that happened to come within
hearing.”
“Ah ! That is six years ago now
since I got all right again,” Mr. Bor-
wick remarked, “and I think it was
about up to me to have a change of
luck, considering that I had been suf-
fering for fully three years. The pains
that ran along my gums and reached
up to the top of my head wero some-
thing terrible, and half my time I did
not lenow what I was doing. My ad-
versities set in when I was ‘running
the planlc,' as they call it, on a boat
discharging blue metal, and I can as-
sure you that I was so broken, down
in health that I had to put another man
on to do my work about every other
week. Talk about neuralgia ! I'm sure
nobody could have it worse than I
had, and as I found such a grand cure
for it the least 1 can do is to let hu-
manity know all about it, for I dare-
say my experience will prove very
helpful. Well, out of all the medicines
I tried to cure neuralgia the only one
that was of any lasting benefit was
Clements Tonic, and when I say that
after keeping going with that remedy
for a few weehs the fearful pains all left
me and have never returned all these
years, it Is the honest truth I am tell-
ing you.”
Is that the only ailment you havo
had ?”
“Indeed, no. All the time the neural-
gic tortures wero at me I had other
troubles to deal with, for my diges-
tion was just as bad as it could bo.
Both from want of appetite, and also
owing to the pains about my jaws,
eating was almost out of the ques-
tion ; but what was still more unfortu-
nate was the fact that fho little I did
force myseJt to take to keep body and
smd together had the unhappy habit
of disagreeing with me. And you must
remember that I was getting no sleep.
night nor day—for weeks at a
stretch sometimes—could I get any
rest, and, as you may well imagine,
the result was disastrous. I got so
terribly weak that ultimately 1 had to
give up my work altogether, and mv
body was so denuded of flesh that my
clothes hung about me like a sack.
Indeed, I was just going to have some
of them altered about the time that I
started on Clements Tonic, and by
some means or other the. idea was
shelved for a while, for which I was
afterwards very glad, as in a few
months I was *as stout as ever. Yes i;
It was quite a matter for regular com-
ment how well I was looking, and,
thank God ! I felt well, too. For three
years previous to using Clements To-
nic I was nothing but a total wreck,
for every part of my body was ad-
versely affected in some way or other.
It was my first experience of indiges-
tion, and" T sincerely trust it will be
my last, for I would rather be dead
and out of the world altogether than
through such misery again. T got to
eel as shaky and .uncomfortable as if
everything in my inside was going to
pieces, and was so disturbed and un-
settled mentally that the least
made me irritable. My eyes always
felt heavy and swollen to such an ex-
tent that I could scarcely soe to read,
and I felt so discontented and restless
that I could not stay indoors. Conse-
quently f often, wandered about out-
side hardly knowing what to do with ,
myself, feeling as though death would I
be a thousand times more welcome
than the. wretched life I was leading,
for I was in agony everywhere. The
pains in my chest were really cruel,
and I thought I had strained myself
or broken something between my
shoulders owing to the pain that was
there. It was like getting hold of a
piece ot meat, and tearing it in two —
that was the kind of feeling 1 had be-
tween the shoulders, and my loins
ached badly into the bargain.”
“And have you never had a return
of any ot thoso symptoms during the
past six years
“•No, upon my honour.; and I have
not had that nasty, bulged-out feeling
in the stomach either after eating my
food. No ; Clements Tonic removed
everything, even to the bitter taste of
a morning and the fur that used to
cover my tongue, besides which it gave
me permanent relief from the many at-
tacks of giddiness that I had pre-
viously been subjected to. How much
my nerves accounted for the misery I
had endured is hard to say definitely,
but they undoubtedly had their fair
share of responsibility, for I must tell
you that 1 was so highly nervous that
I could not stand the least excitement
without getting all of a tremble, and I
had also contracted an uncontrollable
practice of measuring the future wn.i
nothing but trouble and worry in
store. All 1 could see before me was a
continuance of my suffering only to be
added to by misfortunes of other de-
scriptions, and now that you under-
stand the gloomy frame of mind l was
in you will readily conceive why I
speak so highly of Clements Tonic for
lifting me from that sorry state to
the happy and healthy condition I ami
now blessed with. It was through
reading somebody's testimonial that i
decided to give Clements Tonic atrial,
and my earnest hope is that othep
sufferers, for their sake, will be so in-
fluenced when they read mine, and
then 1 shall consider I have performed
a valuable service to the community.
1 can give Clements Tonic a special
word in respect to its invigorating in-
fluence over my nervous system. It
cleared every trace of nervousness
right away, and as an appetiser it
was simply marvellous. fiat ! Why.
when once I got going I hardly knew
when to stop, so no wonder I soon
filled my clothes out again. But it
was all good, sound flesh I put on,
plenty of strength and vigour behind
it, and after using several bottles of
Clements Tonic, there was hardly an
ache anywhere to mar tfje wonderful
cure I had made. What little discom-
fort there was left, after using my first
lot of Clements Tmiic' was soon dis-
persed by my continuance of the same
remedy, and if anybody doubts the
completeness of mv recovery all they
have to do is to drop in and see me,
and I will give them my experience
verbally from end to end.”
“And in the meantime may I circu-
late your story ?” .
“You are at liberty to publish it in
any conceivable style you may wish*”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, VICTOR BOR WICK, of 286-288 Crown
Road, Ultimo, In the State of New South
Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solomnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing of five folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and that It contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment : and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be true, and by vlrtuo of
the provisions ot tho Oaths Act, 1900.
r fW'yr - >• >>
Subscribed and. declared at Ultimo this
venty-third day of August, ono thousand
ine hundred and four, before me,
W. J. KYLE, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and~STOUT
In Bulk nod Bottle are universally acknowledged
I’O DFOPY OOMPJESTITIOSiT,
WINES “•“ *£* 0 * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Sea.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
ŧ
Works s Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch j
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams,
CONS
Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
LAUNCESTON CUP. Launceston, Tas., January 25, 1905 •••
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., March 4, 1905
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 7, 1905
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 22, 1905
50,000 at 5/2 each.
1C 0,000 at 10 4 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
•••
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Sta p Tax will be 2d . on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each lOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry th ®
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded throug any
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY GO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA css mhos from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
TTighest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For all information regarding Rates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
in famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
__ -r'fcT m-rr-C’ TTnUTh
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE 170RLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, P l T Cmlndete'Oure^ 1 lHs most coin-
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is mva u > Consumption to develop. Consumption has
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become > . be°inning a dose is generally sufficient,
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose geneialiy sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. , * *
BEWARE OiH* COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS.
A Sydney Stock and Share Broker expresses
Gratitude and Appreciation of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
It proved a most effective remedy for a
severe attack of Bronchitis.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I lately had a severe
attack of Bronchitis, and, acting on the advice of a friend,
obtained a supply of your Bronchitis Cure. lam pleased
to inform you it has proved a most effective remedy,
causing me to feel grateful to you for furnishing such a
valuable medicine to the public. May you meet vr’th the
success you so well deserve. I place this communica-
tion at vour service, and remain, Dear Sir, Yours
HENRY FRENCH,
Stock and Share Broker, 93 Pitt-street, Sydney.
asthmaT"
A Five Years case.
At times very bad indeed.
Quickly and completely Cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis and Asthma Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —For five or six years I was
troubled with asthma, at times very bad indeed. 1 was
very ill just after Christmas, so sent to the local chemist
for a bottle of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I took
th • first on going to bed, and was not troubled that
night. I finished the medicine, and have not had a
touch of the asthma since. I tell everyone about it.
M. MURRAY.
Postmistress, Pampoolah, Manning River, N.S.W.
HAY ASTHMA.
A Severe Attack Relieved in Ten Minutes
by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
The Effect was Wonderful.
Mr. W. G. Hearne Dear Sir, —About three weeks ago,
While in the vicinity of musty chaff, I gradually felt
a difficulty to breathe. My nose began to run, and to all
appearances I was developing a severe attack of Bron-
chitis or Asthma. At last I could stand it no longer. I
then tried your Bronch'tis Cure, a"d its effect was
wonderful. In less than ten minutes I was all right
again. Such a result, and so quick, astounded me.
This is no exaggeration, I am pleased to say.—Yours
truly, S. H. MAYO, Meredith, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A Sydney Resident Suffered for Over Sixty
Years.
So Bad He Dared Not Stir.
Relieved in a Few Minutes by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure
Would Give £5O for the Same Benefit rather
than Suffer.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Friend, —Chronic Bronchitis I had from birth, and
I am now 66 years old. Some time back I contracted
Asthma, and for months I was so bad that any remedy
that had previously relieved smothering- was of no use to
me. I was so bad that I dared not stir, and spent the
worst night I ever had. When, in a conversation, Mr.
Marsh, J.P., of Balmain, Sydney, kindly told me that a
friend of his was using your Bronchitis Cure, and that it
was good. So my sister bought me a bottle of it, and in
a few minutes after taking the first dose I could breathe a
little. The next day I was better, and kept ge' ting better
every day. To-day lam better than I have been for the
last seven vears. I took the medicine as directed, six
bottles, and' it cost me less than £l. I would give £5O for
the same benefit rather than suffer as I did. Please make
what use of this letter you think fit. If it
would only cause one to get rid of this fearful complaint.
—Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM CANHAM,
108 Curtis Road, Balmain, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CORE.
Its Efficacy in chest complaints testified to
by a Grateful Victorian.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in
adding my testimony in praise of your invaluable Bron-
chitis Cure. I have used it for the last three or four years,
and its efficacy I have fully proved in common colds,
severe colds, croupy coughs, and other similar chest com-
plaints. I have given it to infants a few weeks old, young
children and adults of all ages, and have never known it
to fail in relieving at once, and rapidly effecting a cure
with a few doses. I have recommended it to many of my
friends, and they have fully proved its wonderful curative
properties. I feel very grateful to you for a chest medi-
cine so valuable, and cheap enough to be available to any-
one Trusting its present popularity and sales will be
doubled, I am, ,o„. ve„
Mount Bruno, Mokoan, via Glenrowan, Vic.
BBQHoaim
An English Lady so ill that the Doctor
held out no hope.
Was given Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and it
effected a complete recovery.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir.—Not long since I had occasion
to visit the old country, and before leaving Melburne pur-
chased a bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, which I took
with me. When I arrived in Leeds I found that my niece.
Miss 0. Matthews, was suffering from a very severe attack
of Bronchitis, in fact, she was so bad that the family doctor
held out no hope of her recovery. She was then given
Hearne’s Bronch.t'.s Cure according to the direction on
the label, and I am very pleased to say that it effected a
complete cure. R- J- MATTHEWS,
c/o Allan & Co., Collins-st., Melbourne.
ASTHMA.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Sir,—l am thankful to say that the medicine you sent
for asthma has had a wonderful effect. I have not taken
ail the Bronchitis Cure, as I did not need it ; therefore
I send you my hearty good wishes for your future success.
I myself will, for the benefit of others, make it known to
all I know. lam 73 years of age—Yours truly,
JOHN BRAY,
Alliance-street, Clunes, Victoria.
BKONOHO-PNEOMONIA
Two Severe Cases cured by One Bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,— Kindly forward without
delay another small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. The
bottle I had from you has cured two of my children, but I
do not feel safe without it in the house. I have also re-
commended it to my friends. I lost a fine little girl, three
years of age, from influenza and Broncho-Pneumonia. I
really believe if I had had your medicine my child would
not have died, for the other two, a boy five years old, and
a baby 8 months old, were suffering exactly in the same
way, and it like magic on them ; in fact, a ? 'iail
bottleful cured ootn of tnem ; so trusting you will forward
it wit’: cut —I :a, vours most gratefully,
(Mrs.) E. 1). WARD.
Cassilis, via Swift’s Creek, Gippsland, Vic.
A Queensland Sufferer from Bronchitis.
Seventy-two years of age, weak and
Wasted.
The Doctor considered it a hopeless case.
Cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l beg leave to draw your
attention to a remarkable Cure of Bronchitis, which disease
attacked me last May. It was looked upon by the doctor
as a hopeless case.' In such an extremity I naturally
looked about for something to try. I thought it a hard
thing, after 72 years’ experience of the ups and downs of
this life, to die in such an inglorious manner ; besides, I
was very poor in flesh, and thin, and this stimulated me
to make an effort for recovery, if only to improve my con-
dition. I saw your Bronchitis Cure advertised, and
thought I would'give it a trial, so I sent to W. H. Harris,
chemist, Gill-street, Charters Towers, and got a small
bottle of it. I had scarcely finished it when I gave up all
thought of leaving my wife a widow, and hopefully looked
forwarded to many more delightful days of up and downs,
principally downs. The second small bottle caused the
Bronchitis and me to part company, greatly to its regret,
I opine. The third bottle stood me on my legs to receive
the congratulations of my friends.
I have been a resident of Charters Towers for 30 years,
and, being gifted with the spirit of good fellowship, have
not the least objection to you making any use of this
testimonial you think proper, as a means of relieving
others similarly situated to myself.
JOHN SHEPHERD,
Queenton, Charters Towers, Queensland.
Relieved by one dose of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and cured by two bottles.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony
to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for nine months, and the cough was so dis-
tressingly bad at nights, I was obliged to get up and sit
by the fire. I had medical advice, and tried otner
remedies, without avail. I tried vours, and never had a
fit of coughing after taking the first dose, and though f
have had but two bottles, I feel I am a different man, ana
the cough has vanished. You may depend vUpon my
making known the efficacy of your wonderful lemeuy W
anyone I see afflicted.-Yours fa^S’ ASTBU R Y ,
Dergholm, Victoria.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2b. 6d.; Large
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG,
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY,
branch depot— office . jf 0 g j7j rs t Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street,
Size, 4s. 6d.
VICTORIA
Sydney. Tel. 3562.


You will shake hands
with yourself when you
persuade yourself to try
SUNLIGHT SOAP
for the laundry.
km
for scouring pots and pans.
A Cure for Jliddle Age,
(By “Old Boy.”)
It always comes as a shook to a man or woman to hear that they are being' classed as middle-aged
psople. Youth merges so gradually into age that ono is apt to consider oneself young for years after
those who are really young have pi -.eed us upon the shelf of age. In all but a small minority of cases*
however, when a person gets to be over forty, a subtle diminution of energy makes itself felt f
Perhaps, if we ar® lucky, we have nothing special in the way of pain to growl about, but, even in
such cases, there is an indefinable something which insistently brings to our knowledge the fact that
youth has fled. In a larger proportion of instances the advance of middle age is heralded in a more
emphatic manner. The joints become stiff, twinges of gout are felt, rheumatic and neuralgic pains
begin to trouble, there is a sharp pain in the back when rising from a stooping posture, a good meal is
eaten with a miserable consciousness that presently we shall regret the eating, and numerous
weaknesses and aches all tend to advise us that we must begin to take more care of ourselves.
Although there is, unfortunately, no means of preventing the advance of age, it is possible to
ward off its effects for an indefinite period if adequate care is taken to see that the eliminating organs,
the kidneys and the liver, are in good working order, because the encroachments of age are ever
gradual and painless when the kidneys and liver are properly performing their functions.
The kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains
in weight of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to
nearly an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily, all this solid matter leaves the body
dissolved in the urine, but if, through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins,
contaminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as
Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Gravel, Stone,
and Bladder Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some
urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning.
If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brickdust, is of an unnatural colour, or has particles floating
about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore their
vigour, ©r Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many maifestations of uric poisoning will result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made
from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver takes
sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it
Ito the blood, as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble,
into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles which have
ived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from some
form of biliary poisoning such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice, Sick Headache, General
Debility, and Blood Disorders.
S© intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys, and that done by the liver,
that where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys the liver becomes affected in sympathy and
vice versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of those vital
organs which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
Safe Cure. Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine
could be found which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an
exhaustive search for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in
compounding a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe
Cure exhibits a marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys
and liver, and restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all com-
plaints due to the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the
kidneys and liver naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons
cease. Cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [ll].
MARTIN’S
APIOL & STEEL
fiS Va<a i s s SPILES
Are sold by all Chemists throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the
signature. Be sure you get Martin’s, foie
Proprietor, W. MARTIN, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, SOUTHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
MARTIN’S
& STEEL
MmMisPiibs
My Australian Wife.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT is only in the twilight when she tells the
children stories
That Brenda’s eyes grow wistful, and she
slips away from me
To a land that has no twilight, and to all its sun-
set glories,
To unfamiliar places and a station by the sea.
She speaks of virgin forests interlaced with starry
creeper,
Of camp fires twinkling lonely, and her heart is
far away
From the quiet English landscape and the loving
ties that keep her,
And I listen, and I wonder were they lovers ? Did
she say ?
One can see the silent wool-shed, its western
windows golden;
One hears the wood duck clanging to some far-off
salt lagoon;
One sees the unused sheep-yard, where the pale
night flowers unfolden,
Lift petals from the darkness to the first rays of
the moon,
Where it creeps across the ranges, throwing beams
towards the ocean,
Till the silver pathway wonders did it stretch from
soul to soul
(How strange it seems she knew not all the
coming years’ devotion,
Never longed for that far country where her heart
should find its goal.)
It is only in the twilight, whan she tells the
children stories,
That we drift as far asunder as the nightfall is
from day;
I hear, but cannot follow, but the children know
its glories,
Garish sunshine and sharp shadow, and the crude
blue of the bay.
Tell your stories, brown-eyed Brenda, of the great
land lying lonely
In its ring of blue Pacific. We are one in all but
this—
This “ wonder-love of country.” Sweetheart, you
are mine only !
(Ah, the wool-shed and' the moonlight and a long*
gone lover’s kiss !)
Q.
KI'IIEL MILLS.
A Matter of Optics.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JOSEPH LIGtGINS sat, all day and every
day, before a very tall desk in one of the
Sydney banks. At night it was his custom
to roam the streets, gloriously arrayed, in company
with other young men of the same class. Whether
it was due to the consciousness of an expensive
Panama hat does not appear, but one noted a
certain hauteur in his bearing which seemed un-
justifiable upon the mere fact of 355. a week. His
friends, it is true, would offer assurance. “Lig-
gins,” they said, “is a decent chap when you
know him.” Still, there was the hauteur.
At half-past eleven he would retire to rest. He
slept badly. In the morning, after a hasty break-
fast, he ran three hundred yards to catch his last
possible tram to the city. Thus, the only real
exercise he permitted himself, was taken at the
precise hour it would do him the most harm. He
was not a rare specimen. Species: Homo. Var :
Scriptor vulg. Hab: Sydney.
There is a curious tendency, more specially ob-
servable in the very mediocre order of intellect,
towards regarding its most commonplace experi-
ences as unique in the history of the human race.
Does love wake this average brain to finer issues—
never was such a love. Is a baby borne by a
female of this species—never was such a baby.
True, to the casual outsider, it seems ordinary and
invertebrate ; but to the mother it appears a
wonder, a paragon of babies.
In the case of Liggins, studying the first symp-
toms of well-earned indigestion, there never was
such a liver. Because this irritating malady was
his, his imagination seized the patent rights of it.
His hauteur began to wear thin under the strain
of ill-health. He knew “ that tired feeling,” that
“shortness of breath” —the gold-mines of the
quack doctor. He experienced the hackneyed
dream of insufficient clothing in crowded places,
the fall from the precipice, the terror-stricken
paralysis whilst a Thing, awful, indeterminate,
stalked him ; nearer and nearer it came until —-
he woke then and cowered under the bed-clothes
with stiffened hair.
He was painfully surprised at the callous cheer-
fulness of his office mates. Harrison, a pallid
youth of pronounced agnostic tendencies, scoffed
openly. “ Liggins,” he said, “ always was an ass;
but to worry us with his torpid liver ” !
At this period, the most unpleasant symptom of
all was the sudden awakening from uneasy slum-
ber, to find the familiar objects in his room crowd-
ing in upon him. His clothes, for example, hang-
ing upon pegs ten feet from him,'would, for one
instant, appear as sinister presences standing close
by his bed, watchful, mysterious of outline. As
his eye adjusted itself they would take their right
place. But the fright always left him with a pal-
pitating heart.
Instead of taking outdoor exercise he took ad-
vice. He entered the consulting-room of William
Blythe-Hardinge, M.D., with the air of one who
has steeled himself to the worst. “ Impavidum
ferient ruince ” —a tag of Horace, dimly remem-
bered from his school-days, flickered in his brain,
and he tried to look the part. But he felt weak
in the knees.
The doctor was gravely cheerful. “ Indigestion
—... Any outdoor recreation. Swimming is
good. Anything—... perhaps—yes—even cycling
in moderation. Give up smoking; get to bed
early. And—l’ll give you a prescription.”
“But the eyes?” persisted Liggins.
The doctor laughed. “ Indigestion, I tell you.”
He opened a book and showed a diagram of the
eye. “See here. This” —he pointed a gold-
mounted forefinger—“is the crystalline lens. In
normal health, this lens has the power of altering
its convexity instantaneously, thus bringing the
object under consideration into focus. Your
system lacks tone —your nerves are out of order.
Therefore, your lens acts more slowly. Remove
the cause, indigestion, and —you see? This
tonic he scrawled rapidly in hieroglyphics—
“will fix you up. And lastly—excuse me, but
you seem nervous—absurdly so, I may say. You
are apt to worry ; don’t. And come and see me
again.” He held the door open. “Good-bye.”
When a man of the Liggins variety gets an
idea into his head, it is a difficult task to convince
him that that idea is a wrong one. As he walked
homeward his meditations assumed an attitude
generally condemnatory of the medical profession.
These doctors always made light of most serious
disorders. His mind fastened upon the case of
Rundle, who had taken a series of pulmonary
hemorrhages for the consideration of the Galen in
attendance upon his lodge. Only to be informed
that he ought to have come sooner—that one lung
was perforated, but that the “patch” on the
other was “drying splendidly.” Finally, that
there was no cause for immediate alarm. Where
was Rundle now ? He, Liggins, was certain that
Blythe-Hardinge, unwitting of his fearless nature,
had hidden the truth. Well, what did it matter ?
He felt that he had not much longer to live—his
thoughts passed onward through the idea of
Death, the lifter of burdens, towards the ordinary
feeble hypochondria of a weak man.
That night, the furniture of his room displayed
no undue sociability. But when he woke, towards'
dawn, large hairy things with writhing tentacles
played joyously upon his ceiling in the dim light.
A tired M.D. strove irritably and vainly at 6
a.m. to soothe a semi-demented bank-clerk, with
355. a week. “You are positively idiotic, ” said the
doctor, severely. “ Your case faintly borders upon
the abnormal this time; but it’s not so very
uncommon. Some eyes have the faculty of seeing,
under certain conditions, an image of the retina
with its mechanism of tiny arteries and nerve
fibres, reflected back from the interior surface of
the crystalline lens. I can’t go into a long expla-
nation. You will understand, I have had” —here
he yawned effectively—“very little sleep. But,
roughly, there are effects of lighting—iris unduly
dilated —I can reduce that —details of background
—obscure pathological conditions which would he
beyond your comprehension. Oh ! why ” —he
gestured irritably— ‘'will you people magnify your
petty symptoms ! There is, sir, nothing—nothing
wrong with you, except a trifling dyspepsia. You
are—well, ridiculous. Your nervousness is laugh-
able. I see so much of it —laughable and weary-
ing. We know more about your commonplace
ailments than you give us credit for. If you will
worry yourself his lifted eyebrows hinted at
graver possibilities.
Liggins walked angrily to the door.
“Mind, now,” said Blythe-Hardinge—“no
worry.” This consolingly-meant remark was
thrown at the receding back of the enraged clerk.
“If you could see an operation that I am to per-
form this morning, you’d realise how much you’ve
to be thankful for.”
Liggins, after this interview, would have no
more of doctors. They were an ignorant, un-
sympathetic lot of humbugs. And there was that
disgustingly superior attitude. So he tore up the
prescription for reducing the dilatation of his iris,
and night after night the many tentaculate things
frisked upon his ceiling, and day after day he be-
came more surely a nervous wreck. Also, he per-
sisted in his old habits —no exercise, cigarettes,
and brandy “ to make him sleep.”
The next symptom was rather a relief at first.
The polyps disappeared, but his ceiling showed
signs of desiring his closer acquaintance. But, as
it came lower and lower each night, he became
disagreeably conscious of a real feeling of suffoca-
tion. Of course, as his eye slowly attained its
focus, the ceiling would retire. But, for th®
moment, he felt as if he were buried, the weight
of many feet of earth pressing upon him as he
struggled for breath. And, as nightly the ap-
proach became nearer, nearer still, this sensation
grew unbearable. A strange dread came upon
him. Suppose—it was absurd, of course —but
suppose upon his awakening one night he felt
the actual touch. Absurd, yet the fear remained,
became a very passion as his eyes strained after
the focus which would send his enemy away from
him.
He kept his lamp burning. The light hindered
his sleep, and the culminating point _of his
wretchedness was reached after three nights of
absolute wakefuldess. Upon the fourth he left
the lamp alight a gain. The oil was low, but he
was too miserably to care —tired out, he fell into a
sound sleep. And the lamp, after a brave fight,
flickered itself out. So that, in ths darkest hour,
when life is weakest in the human machine, the
hour of births and deaths, he awoke —to feel the
touch that he had feared.
* * * *
“A curious case,” said Dr. Blythe-Hardinge.
“ But, of course, not without precedent. He had,
when I was called, been dead, I should imagine,
some four or five hours. He lay upon his back, a
fold of mosquito-netting had come loose and fallen
across his cheek. Death was apparently due to
asphyxia. Of course there will be a post-mortem.
But I don’t expect to find anything. Simply a
case of nerves. I had examined him before.
There was nothing organically wrong. Dyspeptic
hallucinations and a rather rare matter of optics
seem to have scared him to death.
“Uncommon? No! A man of that type
could never achieve uncommonness—even in his
death.”
HOWARD ASGTON.
The Locust.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LOCUSTS nibbled a bit at the cheques earned
at Betyerlife in December. The shed had
just cut out when the pests came.
Adolphus, the ringer, remarked that there was a
lot of ignorance abroad about grasshoppers.
“They weren’t any good over a distance,” he said
—a remark that led to argument. Then a pool
was arranged amongst the men, with stakes at £2
each jn the hat, every man to put down the dis-
tance he knew locusts could negotiate on one
spring, and the man who guessed nearest to the
distance which was proved by actual experi-
ence to be the average, to pocket the stakes.
I put down 60 yards, and won £3O. Adolphus
guessed 100 yards, but not a hopper went much
over half the distance, though each speckled
sprinter was chased by the long distance guessers,
headed by the cook.
Then Augustus, the tar champion, wanted to
back a locust to eat green-stuff against any living
thing up to ten times its weight—his locust’s
weight was 6dwt., in full training. Ferdinand,
the loose-bag mailman, took him up, and the
match came off next day. A bundle of fresh-
cut lucerne was brought from a distance of five
miles —everything more adjacent was already
eaten—and divided. Augustus produced his
locust that had fasted two days, and was traired
very fine. Ferdinand put down a wee green
grub, and they got to work, the hopper being a
red-hot favoiite. I always like long odds, so I
scooped a few wagers on the green thing. The
grub had eaten all its bit of lucerne, grown gi-X
inches bigger than when it started, become a
moth, and had laid eggs before Jim’s locust was
half through its contract, and it couldn’t finish, as
the lucerne dried quicker than it could eat it.
The lost wagers ate up most of the cheques
around.
The chief topic of remark was the length of
time Augustus’ locust took to say grace before
grass—it must have been running cronk.
PERIWINKLE.


FESTERED WOUNDS
AND OLD SORES
A Miner Praises Zam-Buk
OF all classes of workpeople none are so liable to
accidents as coal miners and railway servants.
To them a pot of Zam-Buk, taken down the
pit or on to the line each shift, may prove
handy any moment. A bruise, a cut, a nasty scar or
a sprain has all the inflammation and poisoning taken
out of it at once if Zam-Buk be immediately applied.
Zam-Buk is wonderfully soothing, antiseptic and
healing, and contains no mineral substance but only
the most valuable juices and balsams to be found in
the entire vegetable world. Zam-Buk ends all sore-
ness and chafing of the flesh, stiffness of the joints,
and sprains ; and heals burns, scalds, cut wounds, cfec.
It is the very ready ‘ ‘ first aid ” in those ac cidents
that may at any moment be the lot of the worker.
“I am working in the Burwood Mine ” says Mr GeOTge Curry, of Dudley NewcasUe,
N.S.W., “and while at work I often knock my hands about. In the triedseveral
fester and are very sore, and greatly handicap me mmy , t v, em quickly, some
ointments in the hope of preventing the wounds festering . y r> ] { advertised,
of which were fairly satisfactory, others practically useless. Seeing Zam thimr I
I decided to give it a trial, and found that, at last, I had procured just the thmg 1
required Its healing action was prompt, and its application preven c . which
in? Two years ago I struck my shin with a biUhook causing a wound which
would not heal in spite of many treatments tried. When I found s { ffi ld
in cases of cuts and bruises, I hoped it might prove equally good in the case o y
wound I accordingly applied Zam-Buk, and within a very short p , .
Completely healed, g f never fail to recommend Zam-Buk to my mates as the best healing
balm I have ever used.”
&
\
£
.G> *
Every Miner Needs ZAM-BUK-
7AM.TSTTK the Great Healer, is a SPEEDY CURE for PILES, ECZEMA,
DOITS RUNNING SORES SORE LEGS, RINGWORM, BARCOO, etc. A s an
EMEBOCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES
BURNS BRI?IsV"mPLES% q HEAT FRECKLES
SUNBURN RASH, and BITES of INSECTS, ZAM-BUK is invaluable. Prom all
&
4
RUB
IT
INI
mm
9
Mi
X
f
Civilisation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE grew self-conscious like old Eve
Of h#r barbaric naked state,
And bade the mills of Genius weave
Her raynent gorgeous and ornate.
She wrapped it round her limbs with pride,
And so the old barbarian died.
She said, “I need a nobler home,
Ay, cities shelving to the seas;
for I will no longer roam,
Except, like kings, in wealth and ease.”,
phe built her homes and cities vast,
ipnc| so the old barbarian passed.
She asleep of knowledge to be taught,
Grew learned in all the nobler arts,
And eager many a day she sought
Bland Science in her signs and charts,
phanged was her flat, receding head—
The old barbarian now was dead.
She casts away her gods of stone,
And worships One, untouched, unseen,
dim-lit fanes with Sabbath groan,
“ Pure heart and humble voice and mien,”
With bended intellectual head
Thanks God the old barbarian’s dead.
But while she kneels I hear the guns
Belch out their hellish streams of hail
That mangle her devoted sons ;
I hear the martyred widows’ wail
And curse the nation’s natal day
(The old barbarian’s passed away !).
And while she kneels I hear Despair
Beseech the sweater for a crust,
See Desperation wander where
The river’s deep, because she must.
But surely this can be denied ?
’Tis long since the barbarian died.
I stooped and plucked the kneeler’s gown,
Draped on her breast with fashion’s Art;
With one rude wrench I tore it down
And saw revealed her bloody heart.
“Ahme !” I cried. “ I might have guessed
The old barbarian’s only dressed.”
vio.
M.E.F.
“Bloxsome’s Braich.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ TT’3 this way,” said a sad-loolting woman to
a youthful solicitor in his King-street
office; “ I wus married two weeks ago come
Wensdy. I was”
“ Oh, sit down, madam; take a chair and tell
me.”
“ It’s this way. Ye see, I wus married five year
ago, an’ he died. A good sort he wus, I know now
to me loss. Well, what is to be must be.”
“ You were a widow at the date of this second
marriage.”
“What else? To be sure I wus. An’ I wus a
widdy three year. Three year is a long time ; an’
I had offers an’ offers. You’d hardly believe it.”
“Yes, yes. Come to the point. A dispute, I
presume, with your new husband. Give me the
facts of the case and I’ll advise you.”
“ It’s this way. Ye see, the man I married two
weeks ago come Wensdy is a take-in —the good-
fornothingest crawler on this side the Murray.
I’m frdm across the border meself.”
“ Did you give him your property ? ”
“ I gev him meself.”
“Yes, yes. But had you any house property,
or land, or money in the bank ? ’
“ I’ll tell ye what I had. I had a six-roomed
boardin'-house wid ten boarders. Ye see, they
didn’t all of them board, an’ some of them wusn’t
there the last six months. But whin they wus
there they always stopped wid me.”
“ Then you passed the boarding-house over to
him?”
“ Nothin’ of the kind. He just comes home wid
me an’ stays.”
“But, without the necessary arrangements, he
can dispose of your property. He’s your husband,
you know.”
“Can he? Faith he can’t; for it’s not mine.
It’s this way. Ye know the hook-nosed Jew wid
the big goold letters in his windy where the thram
passes ? It’s his. The boardin’-liouse is his;
everything in it, even to the tayspoons. He
comes round every week an’ makes what he calls
the balance ; that is, cleans me out. But lie’s no
way ondacent, for if the grocer or butcher is
quarrelsome he stumps up the difference an’ gives
me pace.”
“ Then you literally have nothing ? ”
“What d’ye mane? I liev meself an’ me
husband.”
“ I mean you have no money.”
(The solicitor’s face clouded. His fee looked
dicky, and he resolved to insist on it first thing in
future consultations.)
“Money? I hev me case. If ye get me dam-
ages in eoort I’ll pay ye liberally.”
“ But what is your case ? ”
“ It’s this way. Didn’t I tell ye I had offers an’
offers ? Faith I had ; an’ whoppin’ good ones some
Of them wus. But the one I want ye to take to
Coort is ould Bloxsome, at the Bay. He has 40
acres o’ good ground an’ a house, an’ is well-in
besides; an’ I understand he’s the rale owner of
two racehorses runnin’ at Rand wick. I suppose
you know the horses ? Ony way ”
“But what sort of action do you want me to
take?”
“ Braich, of course. He boarded wid me when
lie come to town, an’ axed me three times.”
“ But you can’t sue a man for breach of promise.
You’re a married woman, you know.”
“That’s just the point. I’m married to this
'good-for-nothing crawler because Bloxsome went
back on his word. The coort must give me extry
■damages for that.”
“ Why didn’t you marry Bloxsome ?”
“ Because he went back on his word. Then, in
vexation, I took up wid the present feller. I’m
•entitled to damages for Bloxsome’s braich, an’ a
tidy sum over for the natural consequences o’ me
vexation. I ’ll pay ye handsom out ov what the
■coort gives, an’ I wud like yez to start at onct.”
(The solicitor scowled. All hope of a fee had
■died out.)
“ I fear, madam, I can do nothing for you, and
-regret the waste of time.”
“Waste of time, is it. Most of yisterday an’
all this mornin’ I’ve wasted goin’ from office to
office. You ’re the fifth lawyer I ’ve explained to,
•an’there’s none o’ye on. Well, I’ll thry a few
more afore I give-in. Me case is powerful strong.
I can prove Bloxsome’s braich,' an’ I ’ll put me
present husband in the box for the coort to see
how aggravated an’ mad the braich made me.
Grood day, sir: I ’m 1 sorry ye wasted me time.”'
BETA.
Bush Funerals.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE contra-aspect of the hereditary, bar-
barous instinct innate in nine men out of
ten, to bedizen themselves in gorgeous
array on joyful occasions, is seen in the
other instinct to array themselves in grue-
some garb and sombre trappings on all occa-
sions of grief, and when they feel it their duty to
try and make the general public believe that their
state is one of woe. In joy or grief the instinct is
there to array oneself hideously—outrageously.
In the large centres of population the gruesome
business has been so arranged by custom that it
has ceased to be remarkable, and there is a certain
amount of dignity and solemnity about the pro-
ceedings which cause the mummery and tawdry
part of a funeral to be overlooked. But in the
bush it is not so. A funeral there is looked upon
as an excuse for a holiday—a festival almost,
second only to a wedding. There is, of
course, always the small circle of genuine
mourners, but besides them the entire popu-
lation turns out, at the request of those most
interested in the deceased, to swell the procession
and put in the shade, in respect of length, the last
procession to the local cemetery. The children go
per bare foot and do not take part in the proces-
sion, except as outrunners, nor do they swell the
group round the grave. Instead, they sit on the
best vantage points on the cemetery fence, and
enliven the proceedings by wrangling, and en-
couraging dogfights, and making audible remarks
about the “diseased,” and criticising the conduct
of the business in hand. Women, with children
in arms, swell this audience, and lieip things along
by relating interesting personal reminiscences of
the disoB/Socl«^
The procession starts from the house in which
the “diseased” lies. Before it starts everyone’s
hat is taken violent possession of and detained for
some moments, when it is returned garnished
with a wisp of muslin —black if the principal
performer is an adult, white if he (or she)
is a child. These trimmings are charged for
in the undertaker’s bill, and are usually of scanty
dimensions. The effect of a wisp of stiff black
muslin, with two short aggressive-looking ends,
tied round a battered old cabbage-tree hat, can be
better imagined than described. It is a point of
etiquette to drop these trappings in the grave as
the final act of the performance.
The next move in the proceedings is a general
invitation to come and have a last look at the
“diseased” before he is “screwed down.” This
invitation is largely taken advantage of, and then
the procession starts for the cemetery, headed by
the “ diseased ” in a buggy.
At the conclusion of the service, and as soon as
the muslin hat wisps are deposited in the grave,
there is a general rush for buggies and horses, and
a race back to town ensues, and for the rest of the
evening and night the “diseased’s” good and bad
qualities are freely discussed in the bars and back
parlors of the pubs during the consumption of
much whiskj'. Differences of opinion are settled,
at first with whisky and afterwards with fights.
The above is the general method, of procedure
in most bush townships, but some are much more
high-class. For instance, in Longreach, they
boast a hearse, and a sable-clad gentleman, with a
long silver-topped staff, marches in front of it, and
waves the staff to and fro with much dignity, setting
the pace for the whole procession. Also it is a
point of honor, no matter what locality the defunct
has chosen from which to take his final look at this
world of drought, to take the procession down the
main street. Buggies are sent even if the owners
cannot go themselves, and anyone unprovided
with a vehicle is invited to have a free ride.
New arrivals who know not the ways of the
place are astonished when their callers express
their satisfaction at their conduct in doing the fair
thing by the “ diseased.” “He died last week. We
saw your nurse-girl with the baby at the funeral.”
Inquiries being made, the Abigail owns up at once.
“ Ho, yus, mum. The fewneril wuz just a-startin’
when I pars th’ ’ouse, and though, er course, I
didn’n’ know the corpse, they hoffers me a free
ride, an’ hi’ thinks it’d be such a nice hairin’ fer
the dear little byeby, that hi gits in the buggy an’
seen th’ ’ole thing somethink splendid. An’ byeby
seemed t’ enjye it too, Mum.”
The new arrival is shocked at first, but she soon
gets used to her nurse-girl taking her baby to
strange funerals.
Q.
NE'ER-DO-WEEL.
Resurrection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE was under. The beer had him beaten.
He would cadge, steal, do anything for
it. Must have it. “He’s done,” they
said, “he’s done.” I thought so too. But he
wasn’t. I know now.
It was Saturday evening on the Deep Lead—
Williamsford they call it now. He was there-
getting the beer into him—when the alarm whistle
went up on top. The people flowed all out.
‘ ‘ What’s up?” “ Someone trapped. ” “ Some of
the big stopes come in.” Still the whistle kept
going.
The Deep Lead miners came out, all ready if
wanted. Ready to go up to the hill and into the
mine. And he was there. But he wasn’t the
“beer-tug.” He was a man: eye clear and
bright, head up. A man, ready, ready to die for
his mates. He knew what it meant if some of
that gossan had “ come.” And he was ready.
* * * *
He wasn’t w r anted. Two miners had been killed
by a blast in No. 6, and no one was trapped. He
wasn’t wanted. But he was ready.
* * * *
I never saw the man himself before; I never
saw him again—only the drunken, shambling,
shame-faced, cadging “beer-tug.” But
It’s no use telling me anyone’s done. They’re
not. There’s a chance —a hope for all —after that.
It made me think of Walt Whitman
The shaved face, the unsteady eye, the impure com-
plexion, if these balk others, they do not balk me ;
The pert apparel, the deform’d attitude, drunkenness,
greed, premature death, all these I part aside.
There is no endowment in man or woman that is not
tallied in you ;
There is no virtue, no beauty in man or woman, but as
good is in you—
No pluck, no endurance in others, but as good is in you.
BUSIIMAN.


When All Run Down
Unfit for Work. Run Down in Health. Due to the Climate. A
Tonic and Strengthener. A Reliable Medicine.
K V«
>n
if?
Mrs. D. Barbour,
Balmain, N. S. Wales,
sends tlie photo-
graph of herself and
husband, and says:
“Both myself and
husband have very
great pleasure in
testifying tothegood
we have derivedfrom
the use of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. 1 be-
came run down in
health, suffering
much from indiges-
tion, and was wholly
unfit for domestic
duties. Hearing of
the .value of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, I tried
it, and after using
only four bottles I
was completely my-
self again. Having
such confidence in
it from personal use, I confidently recommend it as a tonic and strengtliener.
We consider your medicines to be most reliable, especially in Australia,
■where the climate is so trying.”
Do you suffer from indigestion? Tired all the time? Unfit for work?
And easily discouraged ? The trouble with you is you are being slowly
poisoned. The impurities in your blood are getting the upper hand of you.
Why not get rid of these poisons? You can easily do it with Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. This splendid medicine purifies the blood, builds up the nerves,
and enables you to throw off that terrible feeling of depression due to a
warm climate.
Do not risk any dangerous experiments. Take tbe old reliable “Ayer’s”
Sarsaparilla, not some other kind. Look out for substitutes.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Enriches the Blood. Strengthens the Nerves.
Prepared by SB. J. C. A7EB CO.. Lowell. Mass.. XT. S. A.
"21 -| W 7/mtD7t/Nf/H
NoiiaaNVD
22?
7i
Oi
as
ty.
■fucn<wirz&.
Highly recommended by
the Medical Faculty for
LIVER and KIDNEY DIS-
ORDERS, and IMPAIRED
DIGESTION.
All Merchants, Hotels,
Shops, etc., and at...
NICHOLAS’
Dandelion Ale Co.
Camperdown, Sydney.
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd.
Combination Couch & Bed.
AN IDEAL INVENTION.
Those economically inclined, who live in apartments
having- a Sitting-room and Bedroom, could, by using
one of these Couches, convert the Sitting-room into a
Bedroom and so dispense with one room.
ITS SPECIAL riERITS.
Simplicity and Usefulness.
The Most Comfortable of Couches.
Convertible by a wave of the hand into a Luxuriant
and Substantial Bed.
A piece of Furniture of Highly Artistic Finish and
Design.
An ornament to any room, in addition to the above
useful advantages.
At prices within the reach of all[
CLOSED AS COUCH.
PATENT
N« 12274.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
PATENT
N* 12274
Patent Wo. lWh,
Upholstered In Cretonns, from „ ~ £2 ig i
111 Tapestry and Plush, frem .. „ £3 n <
Upholstered In Oretenne, with box, from £3 1* (
In Tapestry pnd Plush, „ „ £* 10 <
Qan be upholstered in any material: Leather, Cretonne
fteestry, etc., and invaluable to Hotel and Boarding
housekeepers in times of extra influx of visitor*,
As ft ft penverfcjble into a double bed at a moment’
potioe, apy Fgam ean be turned into » Bedroom where on
these admirable Combinations is plaoed,
SOLE RIGHT held by and obtainable only at
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd,,
Universal Distributors* NEWTOWN.
SPOONER’S
SPOONER’S
L# C/f*
r® %
IHTINT LEATHER 600*5
'CLttCD AIDS M
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by aB Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Worth a Guinea a Box.
Beecham’s
Pills
Are the Best and Safest Family Medicine
Everyone knows for a fact that BEECHAM’S PILLS have stood
the searching test of over fifty years’ continuously advancing popularity,
until to-day the demand for this specific in all parts of the world is
greater than ever. With a certainty the universal verdict of common
sense everywhere justifies the claim. And then, again, BEECHAM’S
PILLS do not require the publication of testimonials to maintain their
tremendous demand.
WHY?
Because those who once try BEECHAITS
PILLS are naturally Impelled to inform
others of the benefits to be derived there-
from. This is, perhaps a slow, but it is certainly an honest and
a powerful process, and in this way the confidence and esteem
of the public have been lastingly secured.
No other Medicine in the World can
claim so many Regular Users.
Thousands of families always keep a box of JBEECHAM’S PILLS in
the house, so that on the first sign of any irregularity of the system a
timely dose may be administered and further trouble and suffering averted.
Nine-tenths of the BEECHAM’S PILLS sold are purchased by those who
have used them before, and have found them indispensable as
A FAMILY MEDICINE
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price 1/1J (56 Pills) and 2/9 (168 Pills).
t
41
MEDICINES
CONSULTS BY LETTER, £l.
COLLIKTS STREET, 3MCE;iI J i3SO'O'I : I3Xr lE3.
(appropriately packed) forwarded over tiie Commonwealth and to the East.
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
SY
SIR ROBERT!
ţ
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
BY Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will he posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engraving's, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly's Art
of Boxing, new enlarged editien, 40 engravings, Is.
Hoir to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Fee, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-
Dats Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Higghr Stvmp Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handtbook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. MtNeighbob Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10d 6d- Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s posted.
Ohiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
la 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, Ss 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Mbtal-working for Ama-
tkurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How TO Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp ©n Piano, Is. Piano Tun.ng and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
po*‘»d. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All thesa prices Post Paid.
Don’t be ■fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with other* and
•ave your cash. ISP - Established 20 Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got at.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS ADVT.
»
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Seat Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTH.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cares, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. i Aevice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Lett)* Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, Ed posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d nost. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. GirsY Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full •< rect ons, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Abvice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar.
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, Iss post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
hound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete) 1* 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tr.iC)i)i
wrea Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, la 6a.
SIR
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney


Your Friend would like
A Soil of Carden Hose.
A Coil of Garden Hose makes a
Splendid Gift for a friend who
has a Garden, it would remind
him of YOU every time he
used it!
f-inch x 2 Ply ...
Coil of 60 feet for
f-inch x 3 Ply ...
Coil of 60 feet for
f-inch x 4 Ply ...
Coil of 60 feet for
... 6,d. foot.
... 30s.
... 9d. foot.
... 40s.
... lOd. foot.
... 475. 6d.
Perdriau Rubber Co. 2
270 George St., Sydney.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM.
“ li sed jour valuable Remedy for
COUGH & COLD
OVER THIRTY YEARS
In my family with great success.”
I —J. Hall, School-house, E. Markham.'
AGENTS.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
The Bull etin ‘‘tory Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6rl.
WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY
Limited
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence St., Sydney
Condensers
High Lift Centrifugals
Oil Separators
Send for Catalogues,
WORTHINGTON PUMPS for all Services.
Cooling Towers
Feed Water Heaters
Air Compressors
Meters.
ATT’S
oons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MAR
WOLF
l - '
J. & J. 11 AX FIELD "roprs., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“THH 81.00K.'
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd
iilHlßili
lilii'Si
■
■
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS AND PRICES.
Every Pump Guaranteed.
60 Clarence Street, Sydney
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of
service kept in stock—both Single and
Duplex, Vertical and Horizontal.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps (both
outside packed, and bucket and plunger pattern), Air
Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc., etc., etc.
Mining Machinery, Steam Engines & Boilers.
E=3
FREE!
WATCHES, MINGS,
BANGLES, Etc.,
Given away for selling only 20 Packets of our
VIOLET PERFUME SACHETS.
Send Ito lllonen. we Crust Von.
Simply lend your name and address distinctly written on a post card, and we will for-
ward to your address tile Sachets, which you sell among your friends at 1 i-c-
-penoe per packet; you then return us the .oand we send you your choice of
present* from our premium lists which we send with the sachets.
We make no 3d. Sachets or cheap inferior goods whatever.
Address t VIOLET PERFUME eo„
BOX 252, G.P.0., SVDXF.Y.
'O3?
W. JAMES, Proprietor.
The VOLCANIC
AERATING
MACHINE
Hotel Proprietors,
Country Storekeepers, &c.
MAKE YOUR OWN
Lemonade, Ginger file, Soda Water, etc., of Highest
Quality and without Skilled Labor.
Equal- to Best Factory Made and very much Cheaper.
Absolutely Best and Simplest Machine Known.
The Volcanic Aerated Water Machine is being used
by Messrs. Spiers & Pond on the Railway Refresh-
ment Bars, London and Scotland.
SPECIAL NOTICE —The “VOLCANIC” Machine
was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia.
It received the Gold Medal against all competitors at
the Ballarat Exhibition.
0. Write for Pamphlets, containing Testimonials
0 from people who have used the machines for years.
Office : 101 QUEEN-st., MELBOURNE.
Depot: 196 CECIL-ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
M.
m
. r.
L
Sizk. s}" x Si" x 5"
We are Direct Importers
and have
for Sale—
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all sizes
for all
purposes?
Boiler?, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Yalves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLARE3XTCB STREET, V
■
V '
Its Price is MODERATE .
THE CARD CONCENTRATOR
Is MORE EFFICIENT than any other because it has Channels cut in the Table Surface, instead
of Riffles nailed on to it. These Channels have a section similar to a Gold Dish.
Has GREATER CAPACITY than rival machines because its Mechanism is an Improve-
ment on others, and progresses the mineral to discharge end much faster than that of other Tables.
Its Patents SECURE . Send for
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd., 71 Clarence St.,Sydney ; 486 Collins St., Melbourne.
