

a
GRAND iJDPBEii” BRANDY,
“PIG” STOUT (Guinness’)
*9
107 Kent stroot;, Sydney,
mining and Contractors* Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES. BUILDERS Aim GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
f
C 3& 3GS£ 3iri TP#
asps
adieu’s Orient jotel.
pfoinsßij
LEATHER
T
EVEWY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C# Lttlowlci 4 Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
Fob Drying Wool, Sugar, Salt, Meat-Refuse, lAundrlejJfpj|p|
BROADBENT’S
Direct Steam,
Electrically
Belt and
Driven
HYDRO
are unrivalled for efficiency ahd economy.
Apply for Illustrated Lists
and Full Particulars to
the SOLE AGENTS—
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 BENT ST., SYDNEY
—————
sd
"Take it back, *
I must have -
HUTTONS
Lock? B’S
fsd
THIS ROYAL
E DISWAN LAMP.
sy_
■OMTOKT IK CUBRSKt,
BquAiinr or man.
THE
EDISON S SWAN
United Blectrls
Light Co., Ltd.
Au«tr»la*i*n Br*neh t
1# Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
q«««m»Und Dep6t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street
BRISBANE.
to
f
Bathurst to Sydney, Great Wallace Continental, Road Race.
fat, «/. Dm M‘ Mahon
2nd, fc 4 /lsop
Rode
127 Miles without Puncture .
nr
Ask for these Famous Tyres
for Motor Car or Cycle .
All Cycle Agents and Continental Tyre Depot, 7 Wynyard St., Sydney.
sd
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
fs
dfs
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UWRIVALLLED X3ST QUALITY. PT IN BOTTLE.
mm
m
OIL
No Other In
the World •
EQUALS
‘SIMPLEX’
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIID.
ABSOLUTE
In
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
tin Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanlad.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a'Beckett Si*
MELBOURNE.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
.
TUB FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever Issued in Australia.
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced.
A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS GIFT,
df
Gollin & Co., Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 26.—N0. 1342.]
[Thursday, November 2,1905.
Registered at tfco General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post at a NewspejW


* Let’s hope the Nocent Waterspout -won't rise I
THIS WEEK’S
NEW BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
-veil, by A. Birrell, “ Erg-. Men of Letters
2s 6d, postage 4d. ’
Wood and Edmonds, History of the Civil War in the
United States 1861-68, 15s, post 9d.
Sabin, Cement and Concrete, 265, post 9d.
Benson, Act in a Backwater, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 5d
Barton, Dog Breeder’s Pocket Book, 6s, post 4d.
Beldam, Golf Faults, illustrated, 4s, post 6d.
Twenty-one Standard Sea Songs, Is, post 4d.
Kan-in. don and Woll, Milk Testing, new edition, 5s
post (>n. *
n', n ',!‘ t vl f ' l L'. S '’ Wi ? h To "° on his Flagship, 7s (id, post tid.
The Passport, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s (id, post (id.
1 seful Hints and Tips for Automobolists, 3s, postage 4d
Komance of Modern Electricity,' ss, post 6d.
williams, Modern Mechanism, ss, post 6d
M.les Eustace, A Boy's Control and Self-expression.
Stevenson, R. L., The Art of Writing, (is, post sd.
* Castlereagh-street,
> and at Melbourne,
Brisbane and London
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great ..
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For thk Curb of
Bronchitis !
and Influenza I
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
dr
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or \viinl;>i;ie.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
WF HUDSON’S EUiVIEiMTHOL JUJUBES "^3
(Bwhstkrbd). CONTAINS NO C3C.AINC OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUC. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or
from the Manufacturer, Q. HUDSON, Chemist, Jpswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of staiiiius. Sydney
Depot : 5 <fc 7 Queen’s Plage. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street' \V., London.
THE RED PAGE.
TO PHYLLIDA, PUTTING ON HER HAT.
V \LUE ice, blue fire, faces of blue baboons,
Blue milk, the melancholy blue of moons,
A, J Blue-apron’d butchers menacing blue files,
Blue water in blue distance of blue skies,
Blue-stockings dancing reckless rigadoons
To chase blue devils in the dismal noons,
Blue-wreathing smoke, the blue of bloomy prunes,
Blue crabs and blue turquoises, but Her eyes
Blue.
Her bluest veins loiter in kissing runes,
Lovers’ blue study since those Royal Spoons
Stirred the blue dusk of Egypt with their sighs...
And our Gythera down the harbour lies: *
“ Embarkl” She signals, for Her Hat’s (eftsoons !)
Blue .
AMERICAN CRITICS
WITHOUT approving, one may ap-
plaud Jas. Huneker’s craving to
see everything and know every-
thing, but never his ardour to tell
everything. Everything indeed is per-
mitted to be told, yet not “all at once and
all o’er.” There are formal reticences
evitable. Whitman’s offence is just th
opposite of that commonly alleged : it is no;
a sin of nudity, but a crime of clothes. I;
was not immoral to strip Adam of his fig
leaf : to dress him in that ill-cut su t
of words was inartistic. Huneker :s
one kind of American, and (with all th
differences) he repeats the kind of America
that was Whitman. His book of Iconoclas
(N.Y., Scribners; f1.50c.) collects chief!
from N.Y. Sun a dramatic critic’s observa
tions and commentaries upon modern plays
plays by Ibsen, Strindberg, Becque, Haupt
mann, Hervieu, Shaw, Gorky, D’Annunzio
Yilliers, Sudermann, and Maeterlinck
nearly all the current keynotes or topnotes
The work is seductive journalism. Huneke
has bright eyes, good tastes, and occasiona
flashes of phrase : contact with a mint
that has traversed so much is titi -
lating. If he would shape and clarif
the inchoate, instead of throwing article
holus-bolus into covers ! Ibsen, for example
is lost in descriptions of his plays, overlaic
with criticism which is not Huneker’s. Th
much better notice of Maeterlinck is stil
less lucid than it might be. But, all faults
reckoned, the book is readable and valuable
by Australians who may never see the plays
which are its subject: it gives glimpses or
what the real world is thinking and creating.
Huneker is no dull peddler of formulas : his
pages are sown with suggestion—not neces-
sarily to be agreed with, yet suggestion, good
to be made or re-stated. Even his crudity
or uncouthness :
We are all snobs of the Infinite, parvenus of
the Eternal:
might not jar if he led up to it as Emerson
could lead. The devotion of second-rate
writers to “ the simple style ” would make
literature an intolerable desert; and even
outrage is better than monotony. Some
fragments :
Shaw is like a' pianoforte virtuoso whose fingers
work faster than his feelings.
Gorky, with all his moral anarchy, is as super-
stitious as a moujik. He shakes his fist at the
eternal stars and then makes the sign of the cross.
D’Annunzio is satisfied with sheer shapes of
beauty, [yet] in each of his plays we assist at the
toilette of a woman’s soul.
Wagner, whose marvellous soul changed colour
every moment, like one of those exquisite flying
fishes which paint the air and waters of the
tropics....
Huysmans, with his omnivorous eye
To every man his illusion.
Maeterlinck’s is the dramaturgy of the subcon-
scious.
Why should admiration of the atars ex-
clude enjoyment of such fireworks ? Seen a
little closer, the stars would be fireworks too.
■J*
The Eng. edition of Iconoclasts , published byT.
W. Laurie, Lond.. at an equivalent price (6s. net),
points a current copyright argument. Laurie’s
book, printed from Scribners' plates, is in all
respects of facture inferior to Scribners’: the
paper is not so good ; the binding is shabby by
comparison ; the gold titles upon the copv sup-
plied are stamped unskilfully and askew ; and an
end-paper has been pasted down on the author’s
acknowledgment (430)—defacing the book. Yet
Laurie’s bookselling agents might clamour for an
import duty levelled against the American edition
—to the manifest loss of Australian buyers.
Dramatists of To-Day, by E. E. Hale jr
(N.Y., Holt & Co., 81.50 c.) comes con-
veniently for comparison. Hale avows
paternity from The Dial, most sober of
Amer. critical reviews; and his difference
from Huneker might be the difference of dial
from sun. Huneker is in the dramatic
orb and whirling with it, warm with
its heat and confused . with its light :
Hale, set rather coldly aloof, reflects
and registers dutifully. His subjects are
Rostand, Hauptmann, Sudermann, Pinero,
Shaw, S. Phillips, and Maeterlinck ; and
bis method is so formally informal that it
seems stilted. One does not get inspiration,
but there are pondered poses to consider,
llie writer is in sadder hours a lecturer, and
this book is designed as a series of deliberate
gambols off the academic track. Unluckily
the track has a way of following the gam-
boiler and disarranging his heels. There are
a certain number of facts—incomplete,
a certain number of impressions—unexhila-
rating ; and the rest is a useful appendix,
recording details of performance or publica-
tion of plays by the authors named.
SAID THE CHEMIST
YOU know the chemist was a wizard in
the old days ? Made spooks with a
bit of phosphorus, and so on. It’s
something like that still; only he puts
the sacred mystery in a bottle and sells
it for whatever he thinks you ought to
pay. And it heals ’em, cures ’em : bottled
mystery will cure anything, with the
aid of a trifle o faith. When it misses
blame the doctor ! Lucky it’s only the
doctor that thinks of blaming the chemist.
But a doctor can be a powerful bad adver-
tiser when he likes. One doctor, attending
gently to business, can easily keep 1000
people in a year out of one chemist’s shop :
if he has anything like a practice. Why
should he ? Because he does n’t get the
drugs in his prescription. Say he strikes a
patch of fever, and gives a dozen patients
the same mixture to bring down the tem-
prature. Ten temp’ratures go down ; two
don’t. Doctor inquires : ten prescriptions
made up at various chemists’ : the two dead-
’uns make-up at Boggs’s. “Ohho ! ” says
the doc. ; “and how much did you pay?”
he asks the Boggsers. “ Eighteenpence. ”
And the others paid half-a-crown ; but
they got the drugs.” After that his red lamp
flares one message: “Danger! beware of
Boggs ! Gro to Moggs, or Loggs, or Coggs ;
but as you value your mortal soul-case, don’t
go to Boggs ! ”
Result ? Boggs’s dispensing drops dead ;
and lie thanks his stars for his proprietaries.
“Proprietaries”—that’s proprietary medi-
cines, see ? the things we shine in. Penn’orth
o linseed ; throe-hap'orth o’ glycerine,
ha porth o’ aniseed, dash of spirits, and
water to fill up a big bottle—always give ’em
a big bottle. People like a lot for their
money, especially the women : quantity
beats quality any day for selling to women.
There you are !
Dr. Theophilus McGinty’s
••' • CELEBRATED COUGH MIXTURE !! 1
An Infallible Remedy.
Obtainable only prom Ooggs & Co., Chemists,
Proprietors and Patentees.
mmS wonderful and never-failing cure for coughs,
eolds, bronchitis, asthma, and all pulmonary troubles
is the result of Seventeen Years’ Special Research by the
Eminent American Physician, Dr. McGinty, and is pre-
pared according to his Secret Formula by Coggs & Co..
Chemists, Only. One dose gives relief.
Price—Eighteenpenoe.
—Three-and-six, if you think you can get
it: depends on your advertising. Cost to
us—drugs, perhaps 3d. ; bottle, label, and
packing, 2|d. ; total, s|d. Profit, 200 oer
cent; ; anything less is robbery—of the
ehemist.
And when you ’ve got it, you sell it—or
another “proprietary” on the same lines :
liver tonic in a rich suburb; rheumatism-
cure in a poor one ; “female pills ” every-
where. People come to you for something
they’ve seen advertised, and you sell ’em
your own mixture—always better; you
guarantee that personally, or your boy does.
I expect a boy to sell at least 41. -worth of
proprietaries with every 41. -worth of other
goods. That’s a fair day’s work for a
chemist’s boy in most shops. Profit on the
other goods, perhaps 10s. ; profit on “pro-
prietaries,” 21. 15s. ; gross profit, 31. 15s.—
less boy s wages for a day, reckoned at 11. a
week. That’s how we earn a crust: without
the proprietaries we’d starve. There’s profit
on prescriptions, but not more than a fair
thing if you put honest drugs in ; and there’s
some drugs you can’t dodge without the
doctors spotting you.
Prescriptions used to pay well—not now.
In the old days we used to get a shilling for
the sealing-wax ; now some people expect
the lot for a shilling. One-and-nine and
two-and-nine are popular prices ; sometimes
three-and-nine. Anything over that makes
customers grumble. Though, mind you,
you can easily put seven-and-sixponce worth
of stuff into an eight-ounce bottle. What
chemists sigh for is something that will un-
methylate methylated spirits—take the
flavour out, you know; and save the duty.
If we could only hit on a device for selling
10s.-spirits at 305.-a-gallon, we’d commence
to grow rich. Some chemists try to grow
ricu without the device ; but doctors object.
The necessity of circumventing doctors is
very wearing on a chemist ;so it’s lucky a
good many of them are disposed to stand in
with us as far as they can safely—and as far
as we make it worth their while.
That big retail business was founded by
Scotchmen; if one of them bad been a
Jew they might have monopolised the city.
As it is, the suburban chemists hold their own.
None of them was a chemist; but they
knew how to employ chemists, and they stuck
to their business. They pushed it so well that
the business got ahead of them : then things
were exciting. They had more shops than
capital; the suburban men were fighting for
life ; and they had to find money every week.
Fifty pounds wanted—and one man threw
his buggy in ; five hundred wanted, and
another threw his house in ;—it reminds you
of the yarn in the school-books about the
artist who hadn’t enough wood for his
furnace, and burnt all his wife’s tables and
chairs to keep the pot boiling. Then they
floated a company, bought out the big
opposition, and excuse me for a moment
.. . Good-night !
NEW BOOKS
In Voices of the Desert (Lond., Eliot Stock;
3s. Qd.) Ernest Favenc. collects his bushman’s
verses from The Bulletin and other papers. He
writes roughly, sincerely, often forcibly. In
several pieces he tries to give expression to the
feelings roused in solitary wanderers by the desert
tracts of Australia. “ With its great loneliness,
its dearth of life, and its enshrouding atmosphere
of awe and mystery,” the desert, he says, “has a
voice of its own, distinctly different from that of
the ordinary Australian bush.”
To pass a night alone in the desert spinifex country is
to feel as much cut off from the ordinary life of the
world as one could feel if transplanted to another sphere.
The motionless air, so dry and devoid of moisture that a
polished gun-barrel can lie exposed to it and remain un-
touched by a speck of rust, seems to bring the stars nearer
to the earth and enhance the beauty of their rays. The
ordinary light of the moon is coarse and garish compared
to the pure effulgence of the larger planets. On a moon-
less night the coming of the morning star is heralded by
a breaking light that might well be mistaken for the
dawn. Like a cold, white flame the planet rises, and to
watch its ascent from the horizon gives a man the feeling
that he is watching the birth of a new world.
And it is added :
That the themes inspired by the desert and its sur-
roundings are more mournful than joyous, and the pessi-
mistic view of life more in evidence than the sanguine, is
but natural, for, such as these verses are, thev are desert-
born ...
In an effective piece, originally printed in The
Bulletin , the writer pictures a vigil kept by the
wraiths of
Thi3 is a good example of Favenc’s style : his
manner is vivid; his description true. Through
all runs the vein of shy sentiment which belongs
to every good bushman and is fostered naturally
by lonely meditation in the vast spaces of Aus-
tralia. In daily life one has usually to seek to
find it, yet it has a strong influence upon the
brave hearts, the kind hearts, that are met so
often on “ the outside track. ”
Seafarers, byC. D. Websdale (Syd.; States Pub-
lishing Co., 3s. 6 d ), is a story misunderstood by
the author and publishers. It is really an excel-
lent boys’ yarn, naively told by a nautical Eider
Haggard, and packed with thrilling incident. A
ship on fire ! a wreck in the ice ! two hoards of
treasure, with rubies and emeralds galore ! a won-
derful cavern ! a lovely aboriginal heroine ! a
mystery ! —the whole catalogue, with every lot
genuine. The author shows that this class of
story can be written in Australia just as well as it
is written beyond : in fact, he has written better
than most books of the kind are written, and his
generous extravagance of material is praiseworthy,
schoolmasters seeking Christmas prizes are recom-
mended to Seafarers , and schoolmistresses too. O,
and we forgot to mention the octopus, and the plan
of Treasure Island, and the really good illustrations
A J. Muir Auld—much better than the English
average. For ourselves, we shall dream of the
aboriginal heroine all next voyage. She is a
sailor’s pleasure, to be overhauled every Sunday.
Her hair was piled up in a great knot of pure shimmer-
ing gold, and her eyes, of the most heavenly blue, were
soft and tender (p. 121).
The lips were a true Cupid’s bow, and their rich carria-
;ion was reflected in rose colour on the pure whiteness of
her cheeks. The outlines of her face came down from her
small pink ears in a perfect oval to her round and dimpled
chin. Her neck, like a column of alabaster, was firmlv set
upon shoulders muscular and exceedingly graceful,' and
her fair, unblemished skin shone like——
But we won’t say what it shone like, for this
may be read by some woman-thirsty Australian
fighting flies and dust in the backblocks. No.
we would not recommend Seafarers to schools li
it were not distinctly moral. At p. 128 the
heroine says “Fish, Will ! Fish ! !”
I turned to look and saw several goodly-sized fish swim-
ming a tew yards away. Turning again, I found her
hastily divesting herself of her only garment of bird skins.
I quickly caught her hand, exclaiming, “No, Len ! No 1 I
No !! ! ”
The heroine is what our ancestors used to call a
coming lass. When she was offered sugar
she tasted the strange brown stuff with hesitation, then
seized the spoon from my hand, crying, “More, Will.
Give me more. Very good.” So I gave her several spoon-
fuls, and she ate voraciously, until I thought she would
finish our store (p. 139).
At p. 258 things are different but similar.
Impulsively I -turned to Len, and, throwing my arms
about her, kissed her full on her sweet lips.
Then I was immediately sobered by the thought of my
own temerity. I shrank away as I saw the look of sur-
prise on her beautiful face, and the burning flush that ran
quickly over her cheeks. I was almost dismayed by her
silence and wonder, but my heart gave a great bound
when in a moment she nestled nearer to my side, and
whispered breathlessly—“ Do it again, Will. Do it again.
I like you to do that! ”
And I did it again, and again and again. I simply
rained kisses on the lovely flushed face upturned to mine.
The result of all this is “three manly boys and
our one beautiful girl, almost as beautiful as her
mother ” (p. 279). But we have given the back-
blocks enough to lie awake on.
“Do it again. Will. Do it again. I like you to do
that! ” And I did it again, and again and again—
—and again and again, and again and again and
again, and again, and again and again, and again
and again and again
That is what you get when you go to sea! This
is the book to encourage an Australian naval
spirit!
J*
“Dum-Dum,” who writes light verse and paro-
dies in Rhymes of the East (Lond., Constable ; 3s.
6d, net) is not in the first flight of butterflies : at
the outset, indeed, he beetles rather. As the
book goes he quickens and brightens occasionally.
One can get a line for h —r I—gs :
Clothed in black stockings, mystio, wonderful:
or a rhyme 5
Solace of mine hows of anguish,
Peace-imparting View, when I,
Sick of Hindo-Sturm-und-Drang, wish
I could lay me down and die :
or even a set of verses agreeably couched: “A
Happy New Year ” —and the invocation of Sairey
Gamp in a notorious manner :
By the whites of thine eyes that were yellow,
By the folds of thy duplicate chin,
By thy voice that was husky but mellow
With gin,, with the r ichness of gin.
By thy scorn of the boy that was Bmgian,
By thy wealth of perambulate swoons,
0 matchless and mystical Mdgia-n,
Beguile us with boons.
For Anglo-Indians one would grant the author
greater vogue—or even for the English. Judged
by the kind and credit of his comic papers, the
Englishman’s humour must lie nearer the mental
surface than ours : he is damper and more affect-
able, we drier and tougher, asking an edge to the
jest.
AU who had suffered fell Nature’s wrath
In the van of a nation’s onward path,
Had died in their harness, unknown, unwept.
They had dreamt, as their eyes closed dull and dead,
They had opened a track for a nation’s tread ;
They had thought, as the failing brain grew weak,
That smiling plenty ivould line each creek.
That the toiling poor would enjoy the lands
They had fought for and held with their dying hands ;
That farm and vineyard ivould grow apace,
Where they looked their last on a lifeless space.
But the western downs, where the red sun sank,
Are held in the name of a tottering bank ;
And the boundless pastures , the verdant sivard,
Are owned by a co. ivith a “ guinea-pig " Lord ;
The cities, where vice and crime cry loud,
Are rearing a stunted and pallid crowd;
And the taciturn bushman of st urdy stamp
Gives place to the loafing, foul-mouthed tramp.
And they moaned—uplifting their hollow eyes—
“ We were offered, a useless sacrifice;
For greed and plunder our blood was spent —
For laics—that are worse than the droughts God-sent.’’.
In the west a burnt-out moon hung low;
The scrub-wood ashes were white as snow,
The owl still blinked, with a drowsy stare,
And the morhiny star was <t glory there, . ,
MEMORANDA
In despair of getting “ her novel ” published, a
Lancashire schoolmistress recently committed suicide.
Unluckily, she didn’t imitate the M.L. patriot and pro-
tesbant against coloured labour, and make a magnificent
gesture for twenty centuries to look up to. If she had
accosted J. Murray (say) with “ Moritura te saluto!"
and done it on his doorstep, “the House” would have
had a legend to keep step with the yarn of Byron’s burnt
autobiography.
All publishing houses should have legends for
clients to goggle at. Some of these days a local firm will
recount with pride how a favourite author—having been
used, as he conceived, despitefully— sought out his pet
enemy at the business, and hit him in the full glare of
publicity and the eye. The turmoil was monstrous ; but
the author held his ground till a policeman came. Then,
as he walked away with the policeman—or as the police-
man walked away with him—the author grew oratorical
upon his youth, his exploits, and his misfortunes ; where-
upon the bowels or other appurtenances of the police-
man’s compassion were so moved that he told the author
to go in peace and sin no more. And the author, his
countenance shining with glorious resolve, walked care-
fully back to the place where he had left his enemy,
greeted him kindly (him expectant of apologies and
buried hatchets !) and—hit him in the eye. Our faith in
the great, the indubitable Future of Australian Litera-
ture dates from that day.
The grammatical blunders of official N. S.
Wales reading-books have been the subject of a question
in N.S.W. Assembly. The curious thing is that the
editor of the series, E. Irvine, is N.S.W. civil
service examiner: with the .regular duty of de-
tecting in examination papers errors such as
he has passed in the reading-hooks. W. Brooks &
Co., the publishers, make the weak defence that
they have faithfully followed blundering texts—it
was their duty, and the}' did ! It would have been better
to say, what is quite true, that the slips are few and
easily to be corrected, and that merits outweigh faults.
The books can be improved ; but compared with those
previously in use, or with any current English series, they
are in substance superior for Australia. The illustrations
are not always good, and the type and printing are usually
bad or badly adapted to children’s needs ; yet neverthe-
less they mark an advance.
When Education-Minister O’Conor, in his
gradual and deliberate wa.v, has established the National
Art School which he promises, he might ascertain whether
his Dept, has not brains enough to issue its own school- 1
books, and devote the profit to raising under-paid
teachers’ salaries. If the “School Paper” is to
be continued, the Dept, should issue that too.
At present, the contents are ridiculous, and the
priceisam imposition on parents, uiven the monopoly
that Education Minister O’Conor has, he can supply his
children with an Australian copy of HurpeY's young
I‘eoplc for Id. —ah up-to-date children’s magazine in lien of
an inferior repetition of a lesson-book. MiViister O'Conor
has a quarter-of-a-million Children who need educational
goods, and must buy the goods he orders. He is con-
stantly in need of money to improve the quality of his
education. Yet lie will not supply his own goods and
make his own profit for departmental uses !
A.G.S.


s
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FUR SKINS
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE. -*P®
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
((
Sure
Catch ”
FISHING TACKLE.
MICK SIMMONS
Hay Sydney.
We have the best assortment of Rods, Reels,
Lines, Flies, Minnows, Spinners, and Tackle
in the States.
fgs
Split Sane Rods.
No.
1 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, Cork Grip
and Handle, 50s each
1 Fitted with Lock Joints, 60s ea.
2 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, Handle,
40s each
3 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, in case,
22s 6d each
4 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, in case,
12s 6d each
Greenheart Rods.
No.
5 13ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 27s 6d ea
6 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 27s 6d ea.
7 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 21s ea.
8 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 15s ea.
9 13ft, 3 Joints, 1 Top, 14s 6d ea.
10 12ft, 3 Joints, 1 Top, 9s 6d ea.
The Standard Waterproof Plaited Silk
Trout Lines.
0
20yds.
No.
2 1/10 ea.
3 2/- ea.
4 2/2 ea.
5 2/6 ea.
6 3/- ea.
7 3/6 ea.
40yds.
No.
2 3/8 ea.
3 4/- ea.
4 4/4 ea.
5 5/- ea.
6 6/- ea.
7 7/- ea.
oo£ 0 /y
Split Cane.
The Perfect Waterproof Plaited Silk Trout Lines.
Nos. 1 2 3 4 5 Nos. 12 3
40 yards .. Is 9d 2s 3d 2s 9d 3s 3s 6d each I 80 yards .. 3s 6d 4s 6d 5s 6d
4 5
6s 7s each
NOTTINGHAM WOOD REELS, with Moveable Check.
Wi,
1
HI
NO. 2
No. 2—3 in., 5s 6d ; 3£in.,
6s 6d; 4in., 7s;
4iin., 8s; sin., 9s
each
No. 2a—3in., 6s 6d ; 3|in.,
7s 6d ; 4in., 8s 6d
each
No. 3 —Brass Plates and
l Inside Lining 1 ,3 in.,
8s 6d ; 3£in., 9s 6d ;
4in., 10s 6d ; sin.,
16s each
GUN=METAL CHECK
REELS,
Screwed Fittings.
No. 4 —2£in., 3s 6d ; 2|in.,
6s 6d ; better 2in.,
14s; 3in., 16s 9d
each. Aluminium,
3|in., 30s each
dfg
No.
4
sdf
Best Trout and
Herring Flies.
Trout Flies, Mounted on
Gut—
Nos. 6,7, 8,9, 10, Best
Hooks, Is 9d dozen
Nos. 7,8, 9, ]O, 11, 12
Hooks, Is 3d dozen
Herring' Flies on Gut, No.
7 to 12 Hooks, Is dozen
gsd
Looped
Eyed.
Best Trout Flies, on Turn-Down Eyed
Sneck Hooks, Nos. 3,6, 8,9, 10,
Is 9d dozen.
Best Perch Flies—Nos. 1/0, 2/0 Hooks on
Gut, 6d, 9d each ; No. 1/0, 2/0 Looped
Eyed, Is, Is 3d each
Special Grasshopper Flies on Gut, Nos.
1,2, 3, 4 Hooks, 6d each.
Special Gut Casts for Trout, 2 yards,
2d, 3d, 4d, 6d, 9d, Is each.
Mick Simmons
for Fishing Tackle.
fg
Tun-
Down
Eyof*.
Tackle Boxes and Bait Cans.
No. SB—Japanned Tin Boxes for Tackle, 6d each.
No. 68, better, Is 6d each
No. 67—Japanned Double-sided Tackle Box. 6i each
No. 69—6 in. Japanned Bait Box, fit round waist, Is 6d each
No. 70—6 in. Japanned Bait Box, fit round waist, 2s each
No. 71—Patent Bait Can (for carrying live fish), 6s each
No. 72—Patent Bait Can, enamelled (for carrying: live fish), 8s 6d, 10s 6d each
No. 67
illustrated Fishing: Tackle, Sports and
Tobacco Lists Post Free.
i-jj
m
m
m
Patent
Collapsible
Trout Net,
17/6
EACH.
No. 86 —4iin. Leather, Parchment, Is 6d each
No. 87 —tin. Leather, Parchment Pockets, 3s 6d each.
No. 88 —sin. Leather, Parchment Pockets, 4s 6d each.
No. 89—Sin. Canvas, Parchment Pockets, 6s 6d each.
No. 91—6 in. Patent Fly Clips, Pockets, 7s each.
Best Books for Holding
Flies and Tackle.
No. 91.
Artificial Baits for Trout, Perch and Cod
Hl®
No. 112.
S-Ailcock & C”fr Patent
Ring-mounted ku/Devon.
No. 112—Silk Minnows, ljin., 2in., 2£in, 2fin., 2s each
No. 114 —Pearl Minnows, 2s 6d each.
No. 115—Devon Minnows, assorted colors, lin., ljin.,
ljin., Is each ; lfin., 2in., Is 3d each.
No. 122—Halcyon Spinners, lin., Is each; ljin.,
Is 3d each ; 2in., Is 6d each.
No. 131—Special Rubber Grasshoppers,
Small, 6d each ; Large, 9d each.
No. 130—Pure Rubber Crickets, Locusts,
6d each ; Beetles, 4d each.
No. 123—Archer Spinners, Is 6d each.
No. 124—Fly Minnow, 6d each.
No. 125—Soleskin Minnow, 6d each.
No. 126—Sydney Spinners, small, 9d.
each ; large, Is each.
No. 127—Sydney Spinner, Single Hook,
3d each
No. 128 —Flv Spoon, with 1 Hook, 6d ea.
No. 127 —Perch Fly Spinner, small,
medium, large, Is each.
Heavy Metal, Silvered Spoon Baits,
Mounted on Gimp,
lin., lfin., ljin., 6d each
lfin., 7d each ; 2in., 8d each
2Jin., 9d ea. ; 2jin., lOd ea. ; 2Jin., Is ea.
Sample Sheet of Fish Hooks Gratis.
No. 122.
Spoon Bait.
Patent Ring-Mounted
Devons.
lin., ljin., l|in., Is 6d each
If in., 2in., Is 9d each
sdf
Heavy Metal, Scaled Back,
Spoon Baits, red inside, on Gimp,
tin. .. 9d each
ljin. .. lOd each
2in. .. Is each
2Jin. .. Is 3d each
A ; -
Mlli
I
WILLOW TROUT BASKETS—
12in., 6s. each; 14in., 7s. 3d. each
16in., Bs. 6d. each ; 18in., 9s. 6d. each
THE GROWN
WATERPROOF SILK LINES.
40 yards on Cork No. 3,
Is 6d each
ENGLISH PURE SILK LINES.
50 yards, Green, on Cork,
No. 24—6 d each.
No. 20 —8d each.
No. 16—9 d each.
No. 12—Is each.
No. 10—Is 3d each
»,c*
CANT-6 BEAT
W
Line on Cork.
50
28
26
2*
22
to
18
/6
/*•
/Z
10
8
WATERPROOF SILK TWIST LINES, on Cork,
33 yards.
SO
60
ENCLISH FLAX WATERPROOF LINES
on Cork.
No. CO—Bream, 25yds., 6d. eacli; fOyds., Od.
each ; 100yds., Is. 3d. each.
No. 30—Flathead, 25yds., Bd. each : 50yds.,
Is. each ; 100yds., Is. Od. each.
English Hemp Fishing Lines.
No. 80—Bream, 25yds., 6d each ; 50yds., 9d each ; 100yds., Is each
No. 30—Flathead, 25yds., 8d each ; 50yds., Is each ; 100yds., 1/9 each-
Our Special Schnapper or Cod Lines
9 Oord —
ROLLED ON CORK OR REEL.
9
15
27
27
18
Shark or
Cod
Shark or
Cod
2ZZ
zz.zzz
ZZ2ZZZZZZZZZZZ2
18 Cord—Shark or Cod—
-25 yards, 9d each ; 50 yards, Is 6d each ;
100 yards, 2s 9d each ; 200 yards, 5s each.
27 Cord—Shark or Cod— ‘
25 yards, Is each ; 50 yards, Is 9d each ;
100 yards, 3s each ; 200 yards, 5s 6d each.
Remittance and Freight
Must Accompany Order .
THE TRADE SJEJ UNTIED FOR LISTS.“I«
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Australian
Established 1549.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Debentures" d |ns'^rih» P£ L storal and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
at lowest current rates of interest
Our new Mortgag-e Deed cxmtains a condition allowing' Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
® enu ° f , the ! ? an dunn S any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Director—THOMAs LtOTLEJOHN, Esq.,Gha'rman; The Hon. A.' W Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
HiSq. , Senator the Hon. J. r. Walker ; James Burns, Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.: F. E Winchcombe, Egq. f
General Manager and Actuary—Richard Tefcf pt a t?fa pss
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WrJSrCHEST&R
Q
Rifle and Pistol Cartridges.
The proof of the pudding is the eating ; the proof of
the cartridge is its shooting. The great popularity
attained by Winchester rifle and pistol cartridges
during a period of over 30 years is the best proof of
their shooting qualities. They always give satisfac-
tion. Winchester .22 caliber cartridges loaded with
Smokeless powder have the celebrated Winches-
ter Greaseless Bullets, which make them cleaner to
handle than any cartridges of this caliber made.
ALL SUCCESSFUL SPORTSMEN USE THEM.
gsd
fg
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach. Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Grout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
IDINNEFORD?
lACNESIA,
EEHJ
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
BILIOUSNESS,
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.'—Sm Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you boro S
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnparad only by J. O. BNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, BNGL,
by J. C. UNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, specie
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
... . TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Me " ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, arid Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerve*.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases.
Gravel Sores. U rinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing' Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; IS PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
A CASE AT MARRICKVILLE.
A VERY CONVINCING NARRATIVE.
The Case of
Mrs. C. COOPER.
(By a Special Keporter.)
The physical condition of a large
proportion of tho public makes con-
tinual appeal to the sympathies of the
thoughtful and kind, who are ever on
the alert to render aid where it is re-
quired. In an intervievv with our re-
presentative Mrs. Caroline Cooper, of
510. 3 h’itzroy-stroet, Marrickville
gives some information to the afflicted
which s'aould help them considerably.
Her statement runs as .follows
“My health is altogether different
now to what it was some years ago,
as there was a time when L was no-
thing but a total wreck, and now peo-
ple aro always telling me how well
and strong l look. Yes, l am not
like the same person at all. for now
1 am always contented and happy in-
stead of being intensely miserable like
1 used to be. But Heaven knows 1
had enough to make me so, for the
pains in my head were so great that
many a day l hardly knew what t was
doing, in each temple there was a
nasty beating sensation, which caused
me so much agony that often i
thought 1 would surely go mad. '
“You would welcome the arrival ol
bed-time, so that you could sleep and
forget your afflictions for a while V
suggested the writer.
“Une would naturally think so, but
I didn’t, for the simple reason that 1
could seldom get any sleep, and oh !
how those hours of wakefulness l used
to wear me out 1 Truly, when I got
tip of a morning I felt worse than if
I had not been in bed at all, and 1
always had a bitter tasto to make me
feel sack for the rest of the day. Some-
times I got so thoroughly exhausted
that it would have been impossible to
walk had I tried to, but knowing how
weak I was 1 used to stay indoors to
bo on the safe side, for when one is
like that it is such an easy thing to
meet with a serious accident. And
another thing, i was accustomed to
taking tits of giddiness, and often J
wont right off and did not know any-
thing that was going on, so you see
i had to be careful. And wasn't 1
nervous ? Goodness ! I only had to
hear a little shout or a whistle and
i d actually jump again, and it would
be a long time afterwards before my
nerves would steady down a bit. And
i used to have the same shakiness of
my nerves when i woke up from what-
ever little sleep I chanced to get,
which, by-the-way, was always punc-
tuated with the most awful dreams
that made me shudder to think of af-
terwards, and i d find myself coverjd
with cold perspiration, too. Oh : those
were nights oi horror if you like, and
i do pray that none of mine will ever
suffer in the same way. Why, my
mind was so unhinged through exces-
sive nervousness that i was atraid to
be ielt alone, and would not have
stayed in the dark for a fortune ; be-
sides, if 1 closed my eyes lor a tew
seconds all sorts of ugly faces could
be seen, and those were the kind of
hideous sights i usually witnessed in
my dreams."
“Have you any idea what caused
your head pains and other ailments V ’
"1 think it was all through receiving
a sunstroke when a girl at my home
in Goulburn, for the doctor said 1
would always suffer with my head, end
the older i got the worse it would be.
Other doctors treated me afterwards,
and they all said what a dreadful
state my nerves were in, and also
that my digestiou was as bad as it
could be; and the unfortunate part of
the whole-affair was that their phy-
sics could not help me any. -Powders,
medicines, pills galore, and no bene-
ficial result whatever—not, I can say
with truth, up to the period when i
purchased some Clements Tonic
through” a friend’s advice, and then,
for the first time during my long ill-
ness, I learned what it was to get
some substantial ease from my tor-
ments. At first l thought the relief
would be only short-lived. It seemed
too much to expect anything else af-
ter the disappointments of the past ;
but Clements Tonic soon put an end
to that pessimistic idea by making me
feel better and stronger every day, and
when l realised that my improvement
was making such regular strides, my
heart was overflowing with pre. titude.
It is only right you should know that
besides the medicines my uoctore had
ordered i had taken a large variety
of other mixtures bought from chem-
ists, and when Clements Tonic was
the only one amongst the lot that
could do mo good it is but just and
proper that the truth should be ad-
mitted. Nothing 1 had ever tried be-
fore could make me cat like Clements
Tonic did, and I assure you my appe-
tite had been very poor for months,
and the case that came to my head
after a few bottles’ use of that re-
medy was something to make me
thankful for the re*t of my days. The
pains in that quarter eventually sub-
sided altogether, and the difference in
my life then compared to what
it had been was just the differ-
ence existing between night and
dav. Continuing with Clements To-
nic T lost the burdensome feel-
ings that affected me after taking
food, and soon the windy spasms that
had often doubled me up were quite
cured. It had been my unhappy lot to
have a feeling in the chest as if i had
swallowed something hard and im-
movable —something that kept, the
breath back and almost smothered me;
but Clements Tonic did away with
that trouble, too, and also gave me
permanent relief from the pains that
used to locate themselves between my
shoulders and about the small of my
back. My eyes had always felt dull
and swollen, and 1 used to be irritable
and anxious from morning till night,
fearing that something was going to
happen ; but, strange as it may seem,
after using a few bottles of Clements
Tonic my mind became as free from
anxious thoughts as a babe’s, it gave
me a sense of lightheartedness that had
been lost to me for years, but such
could only be expected to follow after
■o much good had been realised. 1
am glad to say that Clemontsi Tonic
left nothing undone, for it gave me a
digestion that has remainecT sound for
many years past, and in regard to
nervousness —well, i hardly know how
to express myself. At all events, 1
can say that my nervous weaknesses
were soon overcome, and if anybody
suffers from sleeplessness there’s noth-
ing in this world they need take hut
Clements Tonic to make their nights
peaceful and refreshing. That remedy
succeeded in giving me perfect health,
and 1 would rather have a bottle of
Clements Tonic in the house than any-
thing else ; so would my husband.’*
“He has used it too, then V"
“My word, yes ! and thinks the
world of it. He has used Clements
Tonic and Dr. Tletcher’s Pills, and
swears by them. Well, 1 hope others
in need will read my story, so you
may publish it as you feel disposed.’*
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I. CAROLINE COOPER, ol 3 Fttrroy-
street, Marrickville, In tbo State of New
South Wales. Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read tb# annexed document, conslst-
ng of five folios and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and tbat it contain* and
is a true and faithful account of iny Ill-
ness and cure by Clements Tonio. and also
contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements— which I give voluntarily,
■without receiving any payment : and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions ol the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Enmore this
seventeenth day of November, one thousand
nine hundred and four, before me,
F. A. DRURY, J.l
FREE
sd
CASKET OF
JEWELLERY
FREE!
GOLD PATTERN RINGS, BROOCHES, PINS, PENDANTS, LINKS, LOCKETS
AND LOVE TOKENS GIVEN AWAY!
To any person sending name and address we will forward FREE 12 Packets ot our
“ ENAMEL TOOTH POWDER ” and the same number of Coupon! Dispose of these
12 Packets among your friends at the nominal price of 6d. each ; and to each purchaser
!\ glVe on - e c ° u P on » which entitles that person to an Antiseptic Tooth Brush
fEEE Ihe continued use of this powder soon induces the growth of a Brilliant
While Enamel Surface on the teeth, makes the gums hard and healthy, and imparts
a delicious fragrance to the breath.
WE DON’T ASK YOU TO TRUST US, WE TRUST YOU.
Return us the money obtained from the Sale of our Tooth Powder, and we will at
once forward you, FREE and Carriage paid, any Five Articles you may select from the
list of handsome premiums which we send with the Powder; thus you obtain a
VERITABLE CASKET OF JEWELLERY FREE. WRITE TO DAY
fgs
df
The Dental Specialty Co.
Pitt St., Sydney.
gsd
ARE YOU BALD?
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, X will guarantee that
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC will make that “down” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capilla. 2/6 a bottle;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. 0.
Richards, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.


“I had a very sovere lung trouble
and was so weak that I could scarcely
walk about or talk. All my friends
believed I could never get well. I
then began to take Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral and immediately felt an im-
provement. It took only two bottles
to work a complete cure. It certainly
saved my life.”
This is one of thousands of testi-
monials to the wonderful value of
'Cherrii &eeteral
in cases of colds, coughs, and lung
and throat troubles of all kinds. A
standard and unrivaled remedy for
sixty years. In large and small bottles.
Beware of imitation so - called
“ Genuine Cherry Pectoral.” Be sure
to get “AYER’S Cherry Pectoral.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
fg
His Majesty
The King and
Royal Family.
If you require a delicacy combined
with great nourishment, use
MOIR’S
“Mayfair”
Jelly Crystals.
NEW SEABON’B SHIPMENTS Just Landed.
EXCELLENT FLAVORS.
TRY . . .
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
It Is replacing all others on
account of its excellent quality
anti GUARANTEED PURITY.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited
London, Aberdeen, & Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [1
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
DAY
For Blouses,
Nightdresses
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
CURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
CAUTION.
•IT IS NECES-
SARY TO
ASK FOR THE “No. 4” EAU DE
which is known in all parts of the world under
the lawfully registered label here shown
The Public are warned against many spu-
rious Imitations under the name of Johann
Maria Farina of my genuine Eau de Cologne
labels. Every bottle of my original Eau de
Cologne is labelled Johann Maria Farina.
Julieh’s Platz No. 4. The addition of the
address JULICH’S PLATZ No. 4 alone war-
rants genuineness of my Eau de Cologne.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA.
JULICHS PLATZ No. 4, COLOONE O/RH
PURVEYOR TO H.M. THE KING EDWARD VIL
JzZJfZSfS.
- ts
sdf
THE CAREFUL HOUSEWIFE
does not forget when ordering the household goods to include a bottle of “ BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS.” She knows it is advisable to have this medicine in the house, as it is a
certain remedy for troublesome Colds, Bronchitis, and Chest affections generally. It never
fails to cure if you obtain the genuine article,
BONNINSTON’S IRISH NIOSS
(OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.)
A BABY IN ARMOUR
is a Baby that is washed regularly with
Wright’s Coal Tar Soap
because he is
PROTECTED FROM THE ATTACKS
of all childhood’s infectious diseases.
A ..
_ -V
fUfj'd'X
MEDLOW BATH HYDRO, Blue Mountains, n.s.w.
THE ONLY WINTER RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
IT is well known that the climate of Sydney is delightful in winter, but it is not so well known
that the Blue Mountain air is best <pf ail—crisp, bracing atmosphere, sometimes frosty,
sometimes snowy, but sun, frost or snow is always delightful. MEDLOW BATH HYDRO
is a Health Home, electrically lighted and heated throughout; resident doctor; baths and
massage; most careful cooking, both rich or dietetic as required; an entertainer for general
amusement; a library of excellent books, and all the world-wide journals and papers.
GO, IF YOUR DOCTOR SENDS YOU;
GO, IF YOU WANT A SPELL; or
GO, FOR A BENEFICIAL HOLIDAY.
MEDLOW BATH is at your door, so why go to New Zealand or Europe ? Plenty of you
business-men are making money at the expense of your health. Spend a little on your health as
a good investment.
TERMS—From £2 2s. upwards.
gsd
Fallshaw Bros.,
BILLIARD TABLE and ..
Furniture Manufacturers,
191-5 Queen St., Melbourne.
Makers of All Kinds of
Invalid Chairs & Tricycles,
BILLIARD DINING TABLES A SPECIALITY.
OUR CUSHIONS fitted to any table, and warranted not to harden.
Bft. DINING and BILLIARD TABLES, from £2l.
•
HAIRDRESSERS’ CHAIRS IN STOCK. Made to Order.
DENTAL CHAIRS and CABINETS.
PRICES AND PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION,
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited
Merchant Drapers and Tailors, Importers,
Manufacturers and Retailers.
FOR THE CRICKET GROUND. —Our Prices for Cricketing Clothes are in accordance with our usual Low
Scale of Prices. Going through the subjoined items it will be seen that AN OUTFIT guaranteed to Look
Well and Wear Well can be had of our Clothing Department FOR ONE GUINEA.
Hats. —WHITE DRILL, Is 3d, Is 6d, Is Ud, 2s 6d ; with Specially Wide Brim, 2s 3d each. ROOT PANAMA,
Unbleached, 3s lid: Bleached, 5s 6d each.
Caps.— Cream Serge CLOTH, Celluloid Peak, Is 6d each. SHOWER-PROOP and TWEED, Is, Is 6d each.
Belts.— Boys’ and Youths’, Elastic or Leather, 9d each. Men’s, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d, 2s each.
Shirts. —ln Plain WHITE and FANCY Shirtings, with Collar and Pocket, 1/11, 2/6, 2/11, 3/6, 3/11, 4/6 each.
Trousers. —Sizes 3to 7, White FLANNEL, 14s 6d per pair. Made to Measure, 16s 6d per pair. White and
Brown DRILL, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d per pair.
Sac Coots.— Sizes 3 to 7, Striped Flannel, 10s 6d each.
The Big Block, Edward & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane, Queensland
And at MARYBOROUGH, Q., MURWILLUMBAH, N.S.W., and 27 MILTON STREET, LONDON.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Exile.
I see the soft blue beauty of the long low range,
That lies in hazy distance, far away from me,
And nearer, where swift shadows lift and pass and
change,
The bronze ridge, thickly garmented with fern
and tree;
But dearer, dearer far, the enshrouding mist that
fills
My heart with thoughts of England, when the
rain is on the hills.
I see the royal loveliness of these bright Southern
skies,
The lakes of blue, where white clouds float and
drift and rest,
The gum-trees’ lace, against the sunset light that
dies
In all the golden radiance of the far red west.
But give to me the sombre cloud, and driving
sleet that chills,
And sends me back to England, when the rain is
on the hills.
I know the soft enchantment of the warm Aus-
tralian night,
The low croak in the creek, the sudden tender
hush,
The brilliant stars, too far remote in space to
light
The dark mysterious places of the lone grey bush.
But the slow drip on the iron roof my chafing
spirit stills,
And takes me back to England, when the rain is
on the hills.
0 mystic, lonely bush-land, sound now your low-
voiced call;
Spread far your wide horizons and your wide
brown plains.
Your charm of haunting sadness dries no tears
that fall,
Nor dulls the homesick longing that with me
remains.
But now and then the grey days bring the spell
that joy instills,
For I am back in England, and the rain is on the
hills.
vio.
L.
Heaven and Hell.
Vic.
Do you know what Heaven was
In a day beyond recall ?
Just a valley deep with grass,
Where white dews of evening fall,
While the sunset glories pass,
And the deep sea murmurs by.
Do you know what Heaven was ?
An evening hour—a pale-gold sky.
Do you know what Hell now is ?
Just a valley deep and green,
Memories of passioned bliss ;
All the joy of what-has-been,
Restless demons they, I wis,
Those dim ghosts of hours gone by.
Do you know what Hell now is ?
A valley green—a pale-gold sky.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
After.
After the hapless struggle and the fret of life,
After desire and hope and yearning, grief and
strife,
Earth gives sound sleep 1
There will be no more dreaming and no more
despair;
I shall not even wonder, and there will be there
No need to weep !
And Time his quiet way above me still will take,
And on me all the moving days will ripple and
break
Like gentle waves,
The glory of the summer will above me glow,
And all the traffic of the years sweep on, as though
There were no graves !
The green will surge above me in a tide of Spring,
The blossoms open to the wet sky wondering.
Silent and slow;
The winds will wander free above me endlessly,
And the familiar rain will drip and drip on me—
And I not know !
MAOBILAND.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Magic Tree.
In dim lands far away,
’Tween sunset and sunrise,
On the verge of Night and Day,
Where softly to and fro
The shadows come and go,
The deep Lake of Sorrow lies.
Never wind its surface stirs,
On its shores no ripples break,
And the sombre silent firs
That ring its waters round,
Stand grim and make no sound,
By that dark and silent lake.
In that lake there is a fair
Little isle that shines afar,
And the grass that groweth there
Is luminously green,
As grass in graveyards seen,
Under the morning star.
In that isle there grows a tree
Magical, whose blossoms bright
Gleam and glow mysteriously;
The splendor of its smile
Transforms that little isle
To a little Day in Night.
And the Man who tastes its fruit,
He shall know no more of grief;
He shall fear not T ate’s pursuit;
For Death he shall not care...
Alas, when I was there
The tree was but in leaf.
N.S.W.
Y. J. DALEY.


CRACKAJACK*#
[PROFESSIONAL!
Crackajack Professional, SA.
"CRACKAJACK
(SENIOR)
Crackajack Senior, 2/-
1% racWajac k v
(junior;
Crackajack Junior, 1/6
Crackajack"
MOUTH ORGANS.
The covers are of heavy brass, heavily plated,
and artistically engraved. It is impossible to
fully describe these instruments and their
musical qualities. They must be seen and
used to be appreciated. We can recommend
them as being superior to
all other Mouth Organs in
appearance, quality and
tone.
RACKAJACKS” present not
only the very Latest Im-
provements but are unquestion-
ably t e Best and Most Beautiful
Toned Mouth Organs made.
The Reeds are of best bell
metal alloy, tuned by experts.
The frames are of thoroughly seasoned hardwood,
the reed plates are solid brass, and every reed
tongue is securely riveted. The Tone is perfected,
by a system of voicing the reeds, which makes it rich!
and powerful in volume, and the reeds are subjected'
to a process of special tuning, so that each note
throughout the entire register is absolutely perfect.
4A?*6r
CRACKER '"
J3 1 'S.JZhmdq/i’tfyt&m'
Boss Cracker, 1/-
ALLAN & CO.,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
«.* eviBET HAND J>mrfo f£J)
Crackajack Cadet, 6d.
SING A SONG OF SYSTEMS
Suffering Keen . Constipation .
Laxatine. Jubilation .
LAXATINE
is a delectable, lollie-like, lozenge
laxative. It is not a violent pur-
gative, but a pleasant and perfect aperient, cleansing the
system of all impurities. TRY IT—IT’S GOOD.
All Chemists sell Laxatme. ONE SHILLING per Box.
it
m
rmffffnTTTi
VEGESALIS
TABLE SALT
WHICH IS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
DOES NOT BLACKEN SILVER.
Does not Cake.
USE IT WHEN COOKING
VEGETABLES instead of
OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
Of Leading Storekeepers
Wholesale:
VEGESALIS Co., 2, Tower Royal, London, E.C.
ENGLAND.
For The CHILD, The INVALID /?nd The AGED.
NESTLE’S MILK
Nestle’s * Milk * Food
BOTH HAVE STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
WATE ROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND arid CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Englrea & Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c., &c.
Sole Agent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
%MS
et
Tnabs
p
Sold bv
All Jewellers
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
2\ Cert if/cate Given With Each Watch.
\P°U
V& 69 V\ <BBB m
BE*
ONO
i&S'
'Bep
1892
f /
s
ROTHES H AnS
a
a
Estab-
-1750.
m
kiK
m
ran
3
SE
e
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes fro nr
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and!
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted!
on application to The Manager.
• • §*4* -■ ~&~' r ' mM '-'
E.RICfI lif C& LT D Sydhey&bri
To totally and permanently defy damp you must have your foundations laid with RUBEROID
DAMPCOURSE. It stands for durability in the building and health for the occupants.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.—N0. 1342.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1905.
Prick Gd.-
THE AUSTRALIAN, AS GEORGE REID WOULD HAVE HIM.
George Reid recently told an interviewer that Australia, in his opinion, “should frankly look to the British naval forces for its naval protection.
GEORGE REID’S AUSTRALIA N: “You know, ma, I’m. going to frankly leave you to do the fighting if there is any. Frankly, I’m just going to
lean up here and look on. In fact,. I’m frankly going to keep out of it. But I hope you’ll wade in for all you re worth."


XfIAS EDITION
.... OP ....
The Bulletin, 1905,
A Special & Enlarged Issue.
Published on DECEMBER 14.
It will contain Verses, Sketches and Stories, grave and
gay, by the foremost writers of the Commonwealth.
The illustrations will represent the best Black and White
work in Australia, and tv ill picture the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year, is the
standard epitome of the life of young Australia.
Agents will be supplied at the usual
rates, but, in consequence of the heavy
outlay on this Special Edition, NO
RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
re a'i us not later than the 20th
NOVEWISER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any of the Commonwealth
Slates and New Zealand, 6%d. ; Foreign addresses, Bd.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
** Australia for the A astral inns* 99
Printed and Published by Wilmam Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George -street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £] 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings Sterling yon can have Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
II oii> to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead, of
officials. The person may not- be there; the official
alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
. The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. 'The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 2000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded, without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To .4 tun ton rs in Pinole, and White,.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
ally interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—ivill be paid
for as a suggestion onlip The conditions under which
su6h artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 28 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
llong Kons .—Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai .—Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size G%in. x Vein.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied, if desired.
“Posters” will be attached to agents’ parcels if The
Bulletin is satisfied they will be displayed.
Tfc&aOetm,
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1905/
CARRUTHERS, THE ANTI-IMMI-
GRATIOHIST.
Something akin to a panic struck N.S.W, and its
Government last week when they learned that
Agent-General Coghlan was taking active meas-
ures to promote immigration. Coghlan is the
first live Agent-General that the State has
possessed. His predecessors were battered and
worn-out politicians, in search of a haven of rest
where they could go to bed early, and where the
job wasn’t dependent on the precarious course of
general elections. He, on the contrary, is a man
in the prime of life, an inveterate toiler, full of
enthusiasm, and with a boundles- confidence in
N.S.W. if only its rulers weren’t quite so deceased.
He understood that he was sent to England to
ad "rtise his State, and he did it. The informa-
tion iie published broadcast was true to the letter
so far as the possibilities of the country, its
climate, its coastal rainfall, its cheap railway car-
riage, and its vast unoccupied spaces were con-
cerned ; and if he spoke rather wildly about the
land that was available he probably took it for
granted that the Carruthers Government was
going to make land available, else why send a live
Agent-General to England when a dead one would
do as well ?
* * * *
But the Sydney Evening News and the S.M.
Herald and the Telegraph took alarm at the
prospect of a rush of deluded but desirable
British citizens, for whom N.S.W., with its great
empty spaces, had neither land nor hope to offer;
and Parliament took alarm also, and the hair of
Premier Carruthers stood on end, and the Agent-
General was communicated with in haste, and
'told to diminish his irrational hustling after de-
sirable men and women. With his usual sidelong
and crab-like habit of mind, Carruthers dis-
guised his retreat with a snarl: —
He might say, however, that so long as the Common-
wealth laws remained as they were there would be no
danger of all Europe flocking here.
This, like most things that Carruthers says, was
beautifully and wonderfully irrelevant. The
immigrants whom Agent-General Coghlan was
trying to collect were of a class which is affected
by no Commonwealth law whatsoever. They
were desirable agricultural immigrants with a
little money—not under any contract, not colored,
not alien, not the kind to whom any education
test is applied. The only reason why it was
necessary to order the Agent-General to cease
offering them any large or reckless encouragement
was that, in the State which is officially muddled
by Carruthers —almost the richest State in Aus-
tralia, and with less than five people to the square
mile —there is hardly any room for new settlers by
reason of the big land-grabber. And Carruthers
apparently has not the courage, and perhaps not
the desire, to make room ; but with his usual
narrow provincial spite, and his usual dingo yell,
he pretends that he is discouraging immigration
because, owing to Federal legislation, it wouldn’t
come in any case.
* * * *
There is no question about the abundance of
almost unused land in the comparatively well-
watered regions of N.S.W., and if the State had a
Government which would force land into use, then
all Agent-General Coghlan's florid perorations
would be more than justified. Here are some
facts from the latest issue of N.S.W. Statistical
Register (1904)
North Coast District : 309,342 acres freehold, held in
areas of over 1000 and under 10,000 acres. Average area,
2100 acres. Also, 208,945 acres are held in areas of over
10,000 acres. Average size of these estates, 26,200 acres.
Out of this 578,287 acres of large estates, only 5528 acres
are cultivated, and only 170 of these cultivated acres are
to be found among the really large estates —trie ones that
average 26,200 acres each.
Lower Hunter : 818,477 acres are held in estates
averaging 2660 acres ; and a further 478,872 acres in estates
averaging 23,950 acres. Out of these 1,297,349 acres only
6394 are cultivated.
County ok Cumberland : Has one estate of 11,023 acres.
No cultivation whatever.
South Coast District : Has 213 freeholds averaging 2172
acres, and six more of a larger class averaging 14,000 acres
each. Out of the 546,574 acres included in these two lots,
7098 acres are under cultivation.
Northern Tableland : Has 1,348,477 acres divided into
freeholds of between 1000 and 10,000 acres, average being
about 2600 acres. Has also 2,373,599 acres divided into
84 areas of 10,000 acres and upwards, average of these
being over 28,000 acres apiece. Out of the 3,722,076 acres
above-mentioned 76,149 are under cultivation.
Central Tableland: Has 1,552,779 acres in freeholds
of between 1000 and 10,000 acres ; average about 2600
acres. Also 1,443,115 acres in freeholds of over 10,000
acres each ; average rather over 24,000 acres. Out of
the 2,995,894 acres which the large estates absorb of the
Middle Tableland 73,097 acres are under some form of
cultivation.
Southern Tableland: Has 2,391,044 acres in freeholds
of over 1000 and under 10,000 acres each, the average
being 2840 acres. Also has 1,785,357 acres in freeholds of
over 10,000 acres each ; their average area being 19,620
acres. Out of the 4,176,4Q1 acres which comprise the big
estates of the Southern Tableland, 81,090 acres are under
cultivation.
Riverina : Has 1,295,266 acres in freeholds of from 1000
to 10,000 acres each, the average being- about 2338 acres.
Also 7,454,054 acres in freeholds exceeding 10,000 acres
each, the average holding being close on 55,000 acres.
* * *
These districts include the only parts of N.S.W.
which are worth much for agricultural settlement,
and on them, while the present system lasts, there,
is very little room for agricultural settlement.
The big land-grabber has also got the bulk of the
western slopes, though he hasn’t troubled the dry
far-west plains to any great extent; The number
of freehold estates exceeding 10,000 acres each in
area was 36 more in 1904 than in 1900. The space
which they occupied was 782,414 acres more than
it was in 1900. The fragment of cultivation on
these big estates was 41,455 acres less than it was
in 1900. And it was largely by reason of
the blockade which the big estates set up against
settlement that the population of forty-seven
counties showed a decrease between the census of
1891 and that of 1901—not merely far western
districts, where the drought drove population
back towards the coast, but also such counties as
Buller and Gresham, on the northern coastal
slope, Hunter and Roxburgh, between Bathurst
and the sea, Murray, on the Monaro tableland,
and Kennedy, Gregory, Jamieson and Napier, jill
lying no further out than Nyngan. Then there
are cases of other counties not far from the sea
where the increase of population varied in ten
years from one human being to about 100. It is
impossible to find much space for even the most
desirable farming immigrants under conditions
like these. The Carruthers Government must
either shift the big landlords or discourage the im-
migrants, and it prefers to discourage the immi-
grants. Butit is characteristic of Carruthers that,
while the practical stoppage of immigration dates
back 13 years, and the gradual depopulation of
various counties where the big land-grabber rages
exceedingly, can be traced back at least 14 years,
he should excuse himself by throwing an ill-
mannered gibe at a Federal Act which is only
three years old, and which has never interfered
with a single agricultural immigrant in any way.
The great landholders of N.S.W. not only retard
the growth of population, block agricultural
settlement, repress manufactures, banking and
commerce by preventing the arrival of new cus-
tomers, keep the railways unprofitable by pre-
venting the growth of population along them,
reduce the revenue by keeping away new tax-
payers, enhance the burden of the public
debt by preventing its distribution over a
larger population, and endanger the country by
preventing the increase of its defenders. In addi-
tion to all these sins they do not cultivate the land
themselves, neither do they rear the sheep and
the ox and the cow with half the energy that a
more closely-settled population is capable of.
Even England and Scotland can show almost as
many sheep as N.S.W., and far more cattle and
horses. There is no intense cultivation in any
sense about the big landholders. And instead
of doing anything serious to shift them, the
State policy has consistently aimed at making
any process of removal by repurchase as ruinous
as possible. Country lands have been exempted
from local rates. Their owners pay at a generally
lower rate to the support of the State in land-tax
than the town dweller does in income-tax.
have had their public works provided for them
out of loans, and their produce carried for them
below cost on the railways. All these bonuses,
privileges and exemptions have helped to boom
their lands to fictitious values, and to make
any process of voluntary purchase for closei
settlement ruinous, and compulsory purchase
under present conditions just a little removed
from ruinous. The result is that, while
N.S.W. has been talking for years about
promoting agricultural immigration, as soon as
its deluded Agent-General takes it at its word
and starts to really promote a rush of popu-
lation it is driven to give him peremptory
orders to reduce his exertions, and ease off in
his patriotism, and get back into the old rut
of stagnation. And certainly there is no room for
anything save a patient dwelling in the venerable
rut till the great estates in the eastern district are
broken up. Just now there is some kind of a
farce in progress which consists in buying up a
property here and one there at an exorbitant
price, while other great estates are growing up all
the time to undo the little good that is done.
That process can’t be taken seriously. The need
is for a graduated land-tax so heavy as to set all
the bloated properties disintegrating simultane-
ously, and to stop for ever the process of land
accumulation. If that were supplied, and the
money raised by the special tax were devoted to
the compulsory purchase of properties to hasten
the process of settlement, New South Wales could
more than live up to Coghlan’s enthusiastic
descriptions.
NATIONAL DEFENCE.
So far, the reception given by the Australian daily
press to the proposals to re-organise the Common-
wealth defence system on a democratic militia
basis has been encouraging. The Age warmly
supports the scheme ; and the Age has
always been the most national of Australian
dailies, and lately has been the most demo-
cratic. The Daily Telegraph sourly con-
demns it, and criticises, with a tough disregard
for the truth, its main features. Between these
two attitudes the other papers are grouped, mostly
leaning to the favorable. All unite in attaching
to this citizens’ movement for adequate defence
the importance which it merits. And the move-
ment, inaugurated in Sydney with the help of
such widely diverging men as J. C. Watson,
Julian Salomons, T. T. Ewing and W. Mac-
millan, has spread to Melbourne, where a branch
has been formed with the warm benediction of the
Prime Minister. Characteristically, G. H. Reid
for a while stood aloof, wishing to make quite sure
that the idea was popular before he said “ yes ” or
“no,” or Yes-No, and then, when he saw most
political capital on the “no” side, he said “no”; but
otherwise the leading public men of the Common-
wealth seem to be with the National Defence
League, which has good reason for feeling satisfied
with the progress already made with an agitation
as yet barely a month old, so far as organised
effort is concerned.
* * * *
The Bulletin, has no difficulty in falling into
line with the National Defence League, for what
that body proposes this paper has advocated for
many years. The Swiss military system com-
mends itself in all essentials as the model form of
military organisation for a nation which requires
a defence force at once effective, economical,
national in spirit, and peace-securing in tendency.
In details, it will probably be found susceptible to
a good deal of modification where practically
applied in Australia, for the Australian population
is generally of a quicker intelligence than the
Swiss, and is also, from its love of the horse and
of the gun, possessed already of some of the chief
qualifications of the soldier. But the main prin-
: ciples can be unhesitatingly accepted—the pre-
liminary training of the school children in physical
drill and simple military exercises ; the subsequent
compulsory and universal training of all the able-
bodied manhood in such a way as to make the
citizen a fairly effective soldier without taking
him away for any lengthy time from his occupa-
tion or his family; the dispensing with all gold-
lace and flummery, and with all caste distinctions
as regards the choice of officers; the permanent
maintenance of an adequate instructional body of
such scientific experts as may be necessary.
* * » *
Such a system would be effective, since it would
train all the manhood of the country to the use of
arms, and an invading force can meet nothing so
formidable as a nation in arms. The last ounce of
military efficiency is taken out of a people when
its every citizen is a soldier. The system would
be economical, since there would be no expensive
maintenance of an idle standing army—the per-
manent soldiers would be confined strictly to
members of instructional staffs—and no withdrawal
for any length of time of citizens from industry.
The system ’would be national, since it would
—with an Australian navy—provide a self-respect-
ing and self-supported insurance against attack,
doing away with the present humiliating and
dangerous dependence on Great Britain. The
system would be peace-se-curing, for it would offer
to an enemy contemplating invasion the most ter-
rible of menaces and would be the best of securi-
ties against Australia entering into outside wars
of aggression since, with every citizen a soldier
and equally liable for service, there would be a
marked disinclination to vote for wars not abso-
lutely essential. It is sometimes, in a democracy,
found easy to get people to scream for a war in
which they know they will not have to do any
fighting. Under a universal militia system the
man who votes for the war also fights the. battles,
and he wflll only vote for conflict when it is sternly
necessary. With a caste of professional soldiers,
segregated from the rest of the community, taking
no part in its home life or its industries, there is
always an agitation to enter into war for any
reason or no reason at all. War alone can give
them relief from ennui, and hope of advancement.
War therefore is their constant hope and to win
war they riVe sometimes prepared to intrigue
against a restraining Parliament. A citizen
army has none of those disadvantages. At once
effective, economical, national, and peaceable, the
Swiss militia system commends itself on all points
to Australian needs and sentiments.
* * * *
This Commonwealth wants no pomp and
heraldry of w'ar, no bedizened and gaudy relics of
barbarism to lead it to the fight if ever the time
comes for the country to stand on its defence.
Australia wants no perpetuation of caste distinc-
tions requiring that the officer shall be a “ gentle-
man ” (i.e., a loafer) and the ranker a ‘'common
person” (i.e., a worker). Nor does this debt-
cursed continent want an expensive military sys-
tem based on that of England, which purchases
the least amount of efficiency for the greatest
amount of money. But we do want an adequate
organisation to train the population, and local
factories to arm the men so trained —a plain
brown army which has robbed no fowl of its tail
and no curtain of its tassels ; which can march or
ride, and use a gun, and pour forth “as the sea to
the whistle of death pours its sweeping and unript
waves ” when an enemy touches our home soil.
An army to tight, not to flirt ; to be formidable,
not fashionable. That is the need of Australia ;
and that, we take it, is the aim of the National
Defence League.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Swinburne on Denmark.
Minister Swinburne, of Victoria, lately sym-
pathised at some length with the butter people of
his State, and told them, among other things,
that while it cost 295. per ton to carry butter 102
miles, from Bendigo to Melbourne, the State rail-
ways of Denmark conveyed the pale cow-sub-
stance the same distance for 9s. 4d. a ton. And
then, just when he might have explained how
Denmark managed to do it, he changed the sub-
ject. Here are the points which Swinburne
missed :
(1) Denmaik owes only £5 3s per inhabitant—not £42,
like Victoria.
(2) It has been steadily paying- off its debt for years.
(3) It has no dead debt. Revenue-producing- public
works represent all its debt and more. Therefore its
railways have very little interest to earn.
(4) Denmark in every way discourages large estates.
It is all cut up into small farms, and is closely peopled
and closely cultivated. Its trains, in getting from one
place of importance to another, don’t have to run unpro-
fitable' over huge wastes belonging to persons like Ohirn-
sidb, where there is no business to be done. Therefore
there is no great mass of unprofitable lines spreading-
through a landlord-made and landlord-cursed wilderness,
and nobody’s butter has to be specially taxed to pay in-
terest on the cost of such dead lines.
(5) In fact, the whole story of Danish agricultural
prosperity is told thus in Mulham/S “ Industries and
Wealth of Nations,” pag e 233 : “ The reform of land tenure
has been attended with the most astonishing transforma-
tion. In the 18th century Denmark consisted of 614
estates, belonging to the same number of noblemen,
ranging from 10,000 acres upwards. On each estate there
were 200 or 300 tenants, called bondsmen, whom an
English traveller described as “ dirty, devoid of energy,
and not so well-fed as Jamaica negroes.” ... In 1808 a
reform was introduced by Frkderic VI., which compelled
the nobles to sell farms to their tenants at £6 an acre, and
an official return in 1840 showed that in 30 years the
peasantry had bought up half the kingdom. Those who
had not bought farms were termed huusmen, or tenants
whom the law protected by enactment that the landlord
could neither raise the rent, nor evict them so long as they
paid it. In 1861, Bishop Mourad’s law gave still further
facilities to the peasantry for the purchase of land.
For 56 years Denmark has made it illegal for any
man to enlarge his estate by buying up his neigh-
bor’s property, and for 97 years it has had com-
pulsory land purchase and compulsory subdivision
of large estates. It is especially solid on the right
of the tenant to buy out the landlord. It is this
system which has made Denmark the very richest
among all the countries in the world which depend
mainly on agriculture. It is a pity Minister
Swinburne didn’t finish his story ; he was just
coming to the interesting part of it when he broke
off. And meanwhile Swinburne’s chief, Premier
Bent, has a scheme for lending money to a few
unemployed to enable them to settle on small
patches of dubious soil, while he leaves the big
land-grabber absolutely alone. And he calls that
adopting the Danish system of land settlement.
+
Trafalgar Day.
Trafalgar Day is dead and gone now. The flags
have been taken down ; the bottle-oh has come
round to the back door for the dead marine ; the
cigar ash has been swept away ; the white-washed
wooden image of Nelson, with an upward look in
its eye and a white-washed telescope in its hand
and a petticoat of flags round its waist, that stood
in front of Sydney Exchange, has been removed ;
and the “ patriot ” who sprained his throat yelling
over Trafalgar has bought himself a j ujube. There
was much bellowing and more than enough drink-
ing, but amid all the celebration only one man—
Captain Cresswell, naval commandant — came
conspicuously to the front with the remark that
imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, and
that the best way to honor the great naval
commander is to get ready, so far as our means
will admit, to do likewise when the case calls for
it. Certainly Cresswell had logic on his side.
A community which maintains not one serviceable
war vessel of its own should be ashamed to
shed so much fuss and feathers about dead
naval heroes and dead naval glories—it should
rather conceal itself in the cellar or the hen-house
on Trafalgar Day, and avoid observation. Also a
Jingo party which shouts so much about “the
empire” as the Australian Jingoes do, and which
doesn’t call on its .country to build so much as
half-a-dozen cruisers, so that it can lend the
empire, or its part of the empire, a hand when
necessary, ought to flee into the scrub when a
naval anniversary comes round. And a White
Australia party, which isn’t shamed by the know-
ledge that, in the absence of any naval defence of
our own, Britain may, in some future war, dele-
gate our protection to its Asiatic ally, should be
so stung by the knowledge of its position that it
would cheerfully raise £20,000,000 by taxation to
remove the stigma. No amount of cash contribu-
tion to the British navy can supply any guarantee
that this country won’t see its ocean defence some
day handed over to the Jap, who will assuredly,
no matter how much we pay to the British navy,
demand free admission to Australia for his
brown multitudes as a reward for his assistance.
This country’s easy-going legislators generally
shirk the naval defence problem by saying that
Australia is too small a community to support a
navy that will be of any defensive value against a
first-rate naval Power. So it is—at present. But
that is no reason why it shouldn’t support a force
strong enough to meet the fleet of a second or
third-rate naval Power, or to meet any fragmen-
tary force which a first rate Power, when engaged
in war with Britain, might spare to raid Australia.
Neither Maoriland, South Africa, Canada, Ire-
land, Scotland, Wales, Lancashire, nor Kent
could individually support a fleet strong enough
to fight a first-class naval Power any more than
Australia can do so, but that is no reason why
they should all sit down and let things slide. At
all events, if Australia is resolved to do nothing
in the matter of navil defence, it should celebrate
no more British naval anniversaries, unless it be
with a crape weeper to signify its sorrow that it
is so unlike Nelson. The contrast is a painful
thing, and ought to be buried.
♦
Prime Minister Deakin is Waiting.
Prime Minister Deakin has stated that, just as
soon as the States amend their land laws so as to
provide land for desirable immigrants, he will find
the desirable immigrants. Which is so like Deakin
-—the affable procrastinator, the man who is always
lingering in three columns of polished eloquence for
the course of events, the person who is going to do
this after that happens, the refined loafer and
gentlemanly waiter upon Providence. This country
doesn’t hire Deakin to wait on events, but to
make events. His Government can start break-


ing up the big estates and providing land for
settlement in a wholesale fashion by imposing a
heavy federal graduated land-tax and thus making
great land monopolies impossible. It can hurry
the process by applying the proceeds of the gradu-
ated land-tax in each State to the purchase of
estates, and can itself cut them up for settlement.
Then when it gets ahead of the local demand for land
it can get the High Commissioner to send out desir-
able immigrants. Alfred Deakin is appointed
and paid to be the guardian and* upholder of the
Federal power. If he set to work to do the things
that the miserable State Governments leave un-
done, and to make the Federal power stand for
progress and energy where the State authority
stands for slackness and stagnation, he would
make the Commonwealth a strong power and
generally respected—a power with infinite capa-
city for good, and one that would overshadow the
petty, snarling State authorities for all time. As
the individual who is always waiting on the States
he is making the Commonwealth for which he
once worked so hard a mere shadow—something
like the ancient, homeless German emperor who
was arrested for non-payment of his meat
bill. If Alfred Deaktn were an absolute
and premeditated traitor to the Federal principle
he couldn’t play the part better than by this con-
stant waiting for the pleasure of the States, this
making of his policy subservient to Carruthers,
this hanging round till Bent is ready, and this
polite subservience to old sea-captain Evans.
The world respects strength and the success that
it brings. The reason why the Commonwealth
has so far commanded only a limited amount
of respect is that it has hid for Premiers a tired
man, a dreadfully polite mild man, a painfully
moderate man, and a greasy wriggler.
♦
Smashing Our Industries.
The Yankee Harvester Trust has ample con-
fidence in the shortness of the public memory. A
few weeks ago it was swearing volubly that to
accede to the demand of the Commonwealth agri-
cultural machinery manufacturers and raise the
ridiculously small duty against the pirated imita-
tions of the Australian harvester, would be to
penalise the poor farmer. The Yankee Trust
. would have to raise the price of its piratical pro-
duct ; the Australian manufacturer would surely
follow suit ; and the poor farmer would groan
under a burden of extra taxation. After
this had been solemnly declared a few
dozen times, and the Freetrade newspapers had
pointed out its beautiful and irrefragable logic—
the law of gravity, we were assured, wasn’t a bit
more sure—the duty was raised. The Yankee
importers were forced to pay on an honest invoice,
and the old duty of £5 4s. 7d. per machine climbed
to £8 2s. 6d.—an increase of over 50 per cent.
That had been done barely a month when the
Yankee Trust came out with an advertisement
(which has appeared in the columns of The
Bulletin) announcing a general cut of £l2 10s. in
the price of its harvesters. So the effect of am
increase of 50 per cent, in the duty has been a cut
of £l2los. off the price, and following the principles
■of the beautiful irrefragable logic of the Free-
trade newspapers, the increase of the duty by
200 per cent, on the old rate—to a specific sum
of £25 per machine—would bring the price
■down by £5O, or to £2O per machine. There is the
strongest of temptations to the Australian Parlia-
ment to try that method of reducing prices by in-
creasing tariff charges. It has acted very promptly
and efficaciously once; and, when on a good
wicket, score quickly ! There is another aspect of
this price-cut that shows the Yankee Trust’s
cynical faith in the public’s short memory. Last
month this offshoot of the great Rockefeller octo-
pus took Australia into its confidence with a
published balance-sheet showing the gross and
the net profit on the Harvester machines it sold.
This document—which professed to be exactly
true gave the profit on each machine as
£3 3s. Bd. at the rate of duty calculated on the old
faked invoice, and at ss. 9d. on the new invoice.
Now the Trust makes a cut of £l2los. in its prices.
Clearly either it lied when it represented its profit
at ss. ()d., or it is now selling at a loss of £l2 4s. 3d.
per machine. If it was lying about the ss. 9d.
profit, the Trust puts itself out of court for ever as
a business enterprise with any claim to being
treated as an honest trader. is likely—the
present quoted price (showing on the Trust’s
figures a loss of £l2 14s. 3d. per machine) is a
“dump” price, at which the Trust is willing
to sell only until it is able to knock out
Australian competition and add to the 90
per cent, of the world’s agricultural machinery
now in its tentacles the remaining 10 per cent.,
the fact should prompt the Australian Parliament
to immediate action to save the Australian indus-
try from extinction and the Australian farmer
from falling into the grasp of this monopoly. The
methods of American Trusts —Oil Trusts, Beef
Trusts, Steel Trusts, Harvester Trusts—are
familiar enough. This Trust will spend scores of
thousands of pounds, if necessary, to sweep
the Australian manufacturers out of its path.
Having done that, it will bleed the Aus-
tralian farmer mercilessly. Where it has spent
thousands it will suck back tens of thou-
sands, and Australia will pay for its remissness
with not only the destruction of its local indus-
try, but also the grinding of its farmers in
the mill of monopoly. It is generally recog-
nised that during the present session the
Australian Parliament will not be able to
generally revise the tariff—there is no one with
the courage and originality to suggest that it
should put in the Christmas season bringing peace
and goodwill to- the Australian artisan —but it
should at least decide before proroguing to put up
the bars against this American Trust, which has
so clearly shown that its idea is not competition
with, but destruction of, a valuable Australian
industry, and the consequent removal of prac-
tically the only barrier the world has against the
great agricultural machinery monopoly.
•
The Cable Combine.
Senator Pearce’s sub-clause in the Copyright
Bill, by which the press cable combine is compelled
to admit any new journal to the same privileges,
or lose its copyright in the cables, stirred up the
“great dailies” considerably. The Argus, with
a great show of frankness, admitted the existence
of the combine, tried to justify it, and published
what looked like a fair report of the Senate dis-
cussion on the question. Hansard, however,
shows that this apparently fair.report was a shuffle
of the first order. The clause was originally car-
ried on the voices, after a discussion in which
the argument was almost wholly on one side.
Senator Pearce read a letter from Mahon (of the
House of Reps.), in which Mahon gave his own
experience of the combine. He was running a
paper at Menzies (W. A.), and was getting a cable
summary from a Perth daily, in return for a sum-
mary of district news, no money passing either
way. Then the combine stepped in, and Mahon
was compelled to sign
a three years’ contract with the syndicate, at £l5O per
annum. This contract bound me to use their cables
•exclusively. . . . But something even more intolerable
was to follow. The syndicate insisted I must take the
full service, which involved the payment of one and six-
pence per hundred words on reams of messages which
were absolutely useless, and for which the paper had no
space.
Mahon wired to the Argus, and then interviewed
Syme personally, but to no effect, and ultimately
he had to close down at a heavy loss. Senator
Story followed with an interesting account of the
experiences of a proposed new Adelaide daily,
last year. The secretary wrote to the A Rous re
cables. It referred him to the Register and
Advertiser. These were both written to, and at
first replied individually—though to the same
effect —that they would consider the matter. At
last, after pressure, a reply signed by the two
papers arrived to the effect that
the joint inter-State agreement regulating the service
contains a clause which says “that no message shall be
supplied to the proprietors of any newspaper in Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, or Brisbane, other than the news-
papers mentioned in this agreement, without the unani-
mous consent of the parties.” . . . In confornfity with this
obligation, we have communicated with our partners in
the other States, and we find that it is impossible to
obtain the “ unanimous consent ” provided for.
After Story had read this correspondence, it was,
of course, no use denying the existence of an ex-
clusive combine, and the sub-clause was agreed
to without a division. The letters quoted formed
the gist of the discussion, but the Argus\ report
makes no mention, of them. At the instance of
the Telegraph and the Argus, a desperate at-
tempt was made to recommit the Bill for the
purpose of eliminating the sub-clause, but the
motion was defeated, though only by one vote.
The Labor vote was solid for the clause, while, as
usual, the Tory crowd voted with the combine.
Whether the clause will pass the House of Reps,
is doubtful. Deakin is still a great deal too
affable.
♦
Parting of the "Ways.
[For Th b Bdliktis.]
Faded now the glamor of our “splendid isola-
tion ” ;
Gone the old convictions that have ruled our race
so long—
Shibboleths and standards of a stouter generation;
End traditional England, self-sufficient, grand
and strong.
Ends traditional England that is England now no
longer.
Propped and held in station by her Asiatic shore ;
Songs of valediction swell out strong, and ever
stronger :
“We, her bartered children, hail her Motherland
no more.”
Dream of “ Greater Britain ! ” Let us end the
specious story !
Here we face you, England, at the parting of our
ways—
We, who are your children, and who gloried in
your glory,
We, who aped your customs, and who hoped to
wear your bays.
Here we quit you, England, for you may no far-
ther guide us
Through our misty mirage to a goal none under-
stands.
Share your tainted triumphs with your Monkey,
and divide us :
“ Buddh for Jappy England ! ” but “ St. George
for Austral lands ! ”
Tender your asylum to all seedy, swarming
strangers—
Red, black, brown, and yellow, and the non-
descript they breed.
Hug your “ Colored Problems,” and degenerative
dangers ;
Futile would be protest, for we know you would
not heed.
Cut the Christ-God’s crosses from your Judas-
branded banners;
Graft Gautama’s imag'e in the corner-space thus
won ;
Make your mottled millions mostly Mongoloid in
manners.
Red o’er your grey waters portents Nippon’s
Risen Sun.
Futile would be protest ; but your lead we shall
not follow.
Not for us an Empire through the path you seek
to beat.
We, whose ears are open, hear it ringing, oh, so
hollow !
We, who know its pitfalls, dread its end for heed-
less feet.
Looms for us a future with a prospect saner,
brighter
Than you peer at, England, mammon-bossed and
fetish-fed !
Now we found a nation to be cleaner and much
whiter.
Here we hold a refuge for the straightly-thorough-
bred.
Walling in a temple for the cult we preach and
cherish :
“Men are kindred only whom the claims of blood
unite.
Only pure blood prospers, and the mongrel man
must perish ;
Since but caste is lasting, let the caste that lasts
be white.”
MAORILAND. TaLAFEKAU.
«
Our Enemy the Jap—Again.
Once more is the air more or less filled with the
cry of Bruce Smith and the yelp of Pulsford—
the two renegades who are always against Aus-
tralia and always for the nigger,' the Chinaman,
and the colored man generally—demanding the
free admission of the Jap to this country. These
persons have very much to say about our restric-
tions, but nota word of condemnation for therestrie-
tions by which the Jap elbows white men—includ-
ing the subjects of his British ally— out of Japan.
The Mikado’s country, with no Immigration Act
and without a language test, yet in a left handed
fashion absolutely forbids the immigration of
white people. The land laws of the Monkey’s
country are the most remarkable in the world for
the rigidity with which they refuse to allow a
white man to obtain a title to even one small acre.
The rule is that no one but a Japanese can own
land in Japan. There is in all Japan one white
man w r ho owns land, and he is the exception that
proves the rule. He went from Richmond (Vic.)
30 years ago, married a Japanese wife and had a
large family. He had influence with certain
Cabinet Ministers, and got a little island down
the coast. But no other white man had his luck,
i his law against ownership of land by white men
affects the business relations of the whites and the
yellows. If a Jap owes a white man money, the
white can sue him in a Jap court, and he may get a
verdict, but that’s all he ever does get. The
Jap’s house isn’t worth seizing, and his land the
white man cannot touch. There is mighty little
to be got by an alien who can’t own land, and he
can take no permanent root in the country. This
land law and the restrictions put on aliens as
traders constitute an exclusion policy which, if
judged by results, is brilliantly successful. At
latest advices (beginning of 1904) there were only
13,709 foreigners in Japan, of whom 7423 were
Chinese, 2113 British (largely tourists), and the
rest various. Australia contains more Japanese
than Japan contains of British subjects of all
sorts, and the “proud and sensitive” Jap nation
isn’t at all ashamed of its exclusion policy—not
even of its anti-English exclusion policy. Japan
treats Englishmen a score-of times worse than the
Transvaal ever did, yet Britain quarrelled with
the Transvaal over the latter State’s anti-foreign
policy—tiie alleged anti-foreign policy of a coun-
try which allowed the foreigner to own its mines,
its best city, and much of its land, and only drew
the line at letting him run its Parliament. When
Britain fell on the Transvaal, Pulsford and Bruce
Smith said it was well. And now, for the
moment, the hysterical Bull is as enthusiastic for
the Jap who kicks him as he used to be against
the Boer who treated him better than any other
foreign nation ever did; and Pulsford and B.
Smith, being each of them only a copy and a mind-
less echo, would fain have us give Australia to the
Jap in return for his elaborate process of insult.
Meanwhile, as part of the great conspiracy
wherein Bruce Smith is a humble blue-bottle
buzzing on the cart-wheel, and Pulsford the dog
which runs behind in a cloud of dust, a certain
“Viscount” Hayashi has issued his assurance
that there is no risk’or intention or possibility of.
any large Jap movement towards this country.
The demand for entrance, it seems, arises merely
from the lofty spirit of a “proud and sensitive
nation.” When the Jap is allowed to come here,
he won’t come. It is a good lie—but other coun-
tries have listened to the glozing tale of the
Hayashi gort of person, and in every case they
have been sold. The Jap practically owns
Hawaii now. There were 24,000 of him in’97;
there are 70,000 now. The Hawaiians have
diminished nearly one-half in a mere handful of
years—eaten up by Jap competition. The Jap
outnumbers the natives, the Chinese and the
white Americans, and is driving them all out.
The Jap is starting to eat up New Caledonia so
fast that an Exclusion Law is contemplated. He
is pouring into Western Canada, and is even
beginning to invade Mexico and Central America,
and everywhere he goes he is the locust—the same
old locust. The assurance of Viscount Hayashi
or the Duke of Haystack or any other polished
Jap statesman may be a very good assurance, but
facts are against it. Australia was just beginning
to realise the huge possibilities of a Jap influx
when it made its feeble effort at closing the door.
It had noted the proud and sensitive Jap in all the
brothels from Cairns and Cooktown round the
Gulf to Kalgoorlie, and it knows things that B.
Smith, poring over his occasional brief in his
office, or Pulsford, mooning over his statistics, is
incapable of realising.
■ ♦
The Great Subdivision Sale.
Sydney papers are again daubed over with the
poster-advertisements of the subdivision sale, and
the community is besought about 10 times every
Saturday to come and buy the desirable suburban
block whose beautiful views never can be built
out. And the man at the street corner takes up
the song of the daily paper, and says it is all a
glad sign of returning prosperity and restored
confidence, etc. The Bulletin, however, regards
this resurrection of the subdivision salesman with
mixed feelings. The boom means that there is
money about, and that’s a good thing. There is
money about. Pretty well every quarterly
banking average and every bank’s balance sheet
proves it. In this respect Melbourne is the
same as Sydney. The report of the Royal Bank
of Australia, issued last week, showed that its
liquid assets —the coin and the public stocks that
it has lying in its own vaults or which, unable to
find other use for, it has lent to other banks,
mostly in Europe—have increased in 12 months
from £261,957 to £499,367. In N.S. Wales, while
the advances have in some cases increased, the
deposits have increased much more rapidly, in
spite of the fact that the rate of interest for
deposits has been reduced. One result is a long
jump in the market price of investment stocks.
Haying nothing else of a profitable sort to do with
their money, some people are rushing the things
that look reasonably safe, and the rush has
whirled up market prices. Thus, though the
tendency of banking profits is to sag, because
the deposits which are costing the banks money are
outrunning the advances which are earning money,
some bank shares have sprung as much as 15 per
cent, during the last three or four months ; while
N.S.W. Funded 4 per cents, for which, in March,
the best offer was £9B 10s., now have sales at £lO2
15s. In other directions the movements have
been still greater. The man who bought Broken
Hill silver shares 12 months ago can now, on the
average, sell out at a profit of 50 per cent.—in
some cases over 100 per cent.; while Melbourne
has been excitedly putting its spare cash into tin
ventures. This is just the chance that the bank
or the mortgage co., with the hideously unprofit-
able vacant land on its hands, has been waiting
for; it wants to pass on the unprofitable baby
while the public has money to buy unprofitable
babies with—or, anyhow, enough money to pay a
deposit with, and so reduce the amount at
which the infant stands in the mortgage co.’s
books. What the public intends to do with
the block of land it buys nobody knows; the
public doesn’t know itself. Mostly, perhaps, it
expects a bigger boom to happen by-and-bye, and
then it will pass the child on to someone else to
nurse for another few years. And all this is doing
absolutely nothing to develop “our great natural
resources.” All it is doing is to provide a few
auctioneers’ commissions and the chance for mort-
gagees to creep out of debts that have been in the
Doubtful Debts ledger for years. Meanwhile all
this money that is either accumulating unused in
the banks, or is passing from hand to hand among
speculators, or is being shipped to England
because, while it cannot earn anything at all here,
it can earn per cent, there, is badly needed for
the development of Australia. Last month alone
the one State of N.S. Wales imported from
foreign parts £1,492,324 worth of goods, and for
the first nine months of the year £11,000,104
worth. To the foreigner, its bill for iron and iron
goods has this year already come to £327,970,
wjth another £529,827 for machinery, and another
£792,829 for metal manufactures. Practically
all these things could and should have been
made in Australia, by Australian factories, pro-
vided out of Australia’s surplus capital. But
Australia supports not only the foreign workman
and manufacturer, but the foreign bank as well.
While its own deposits either lie unprofitable or are
shipped away to Europe, the foreign deposit in the
foreign bank earns good interest by helping to do
for us the things which G. H. Reid, and Cook,
and Johnson, and Kelly, and the rest of the
Foreign-trade crowd won’t let us do for ourselves
—and the party that sinks the fiscal issue stands
by and says that the tragedy of workless Austra-
lian workmen is none of its business. To a great
extent, therefore, an extra-good harvest, fol-
lowed by an extra supply of money, means
one of two things. Either the man who
owns the money can take it to an Australian bank
which, unable to find any profitable use for it
here, sends it to Europe, where it finds employ-
ment in cutting Australia’s throat industrially ;
or he gambles at a great suburban subdivision sale
or in stocks and shares, so that his capital doesn’t
add one cent to the wealth of the country. It is
a- stiff price to pay for the fun of regarding George
Reid as a political saviour and Joe Cook as a
deputy saviour.
♦
The Blessings of Yellow Labor.
The Palmerston and Pine Creek railway is a tell-
ing example of the sort of prosperity Australia
would have if it only let in plenty of cheap
labor of assorted tints. It is the only railway
in the Northern Territory, and serves a country
that never has had any scarcity of yellow labor,
and which, at the present moment, has nearly three
Asiatics for every white inhabitant. Moreover,
the N,T. is known to be one of the richest
parts of the continent, and specially suited to
the colored brother. According to all the rules
of the Bruce Smith school, the N.T. should there-
fore be a country of beastly affluence, and its
public works should be showing a return
so large as to prompt every other State
to follow its example and become likewise varie-
gated. But the dreadful fact is that, so far from
anything of this sort resulting from practically
unlimited cheap colored labor, the figures are so
shocking that the S. Australian Railway Depart-
ment never prints them with its own. In that
respect it only adopts the practice of almost
every S. Australian Department; the figures for
the Territory are so bad that they are kept apart
from the rest, for fear of spoiling the average.
As for this Palmerston-Pine Creek line, it
was opened in 1889. Its capital cost was
£1,179,059; in the 16 years of its life it
has cost £270,309 to work, arid the revenue
has amounted to £236,845. Thus to pay mere
w’orking expenses the line has had to be subsi-
dised to the extent of £33,464, and, in addition,
the whole £814,563 of interest has come out
of the pocket of the S. Australian taxpayer. The
Territory, with its practically unlimited yellow
labor —the labor that is supposed to enrich the
land—has had to call on S. Australia to pay
nearly £4 for every £1 it has paid itself ; and yet
S. Australia is a poor country, with not half the
mineral resources of the Territory, and, according
to the yarn of the colored-labor crowd which is
always booming “ tropical agriculture,” with not
half its other resources. As an object lesson in
the salvation of a country by letting in the Asiatic,
the Northern Territory, with its proportion of
nearly three Asiatics to every white person, ought
to be simply invaluable. And as a hard, concrete
example, this case of the Palmerston-Pine Creek
railway ought to be nailed up on Australia’s door-
post.
♦
Cats.
Bombala (N.S.W.) has secured a Government
proclamation protecting the domestic cat “ which
has become wild,” the expectation being that the
animal will solve the rabbit question. It may be
admitted at once that such cats will kill young
rabbits. Even domestic cats, before becoming
wild, will do that. But to declare that the domestic
cat “become wild” is “a natural enemy of the
rabbit ”is an absurd blunder. The grown rabbit
and the grown cat, tame or wild, fraternise
after a very short acquaintance, and that
acquahntanceisalwayspossible where food abounds.
It is not cats but settlers that the Bombala district
requires to put down its bunny. This writer has
explored part of that district on foot with a knap-
sack, and this is the verdict. Cooma to Berri-
dale (about 20 miles), no population, all great
squattages, grass, rabbits, scenery, but hardly even
any sheep or cattle visible. Berridale to Timbery
Range (about 26 miles), no population, and few
sheep or cattle visible—only grass, scenery, rab-
bits and monopoly. A few small selectors at Tim-
bery Range. From their bit of cultivation to Bom-
bala (about another 26 miles), no population, no
houses except the deserted homes of old-time
dummies, very few cattle or sheep, much
grass and fresh air, Bombala to Delegate (20
miles south), much the same over again. Bom-
bala back to Cooma by main road (about 50
miles north), two hamlets, the rest squatters, land
monopoly, grass, scenery, and very little visible
stock. This writer knows where there is room to
settle 100,000 of an agricultural population on
Monaro, with reasonably good soil and an English
climate, and these people would keep down the
rabbit, and indirectly provide support under a
decent tariff for another 100,000 or 200,000
tradespeople, artisans, and others. But the
Carruthers Government prefers to let the
big land monopolies remain, and to promote
a rush of cats in the great wilderness. Even
when it sees a prospect of the Australian
Government building a city on this grassy deso-
lation and putting the land to some real use, it
prefers cats.
+
Britain’s blindness to her military weakness is an
old story, but her deafness to the voice of Lord
Roberts— the glorified “ Bobs ”of not so long ago
—is a new and surprising fact. The ex-Com-
mander-in-Chief, who realised the absurdity of
Tommy Atkins in the Boer War, has been vairily
attempting to raise money, for the creation of rifle
clubs. He appealed to the municipalities and
Jingoes in general for a total sum of £lOO,OOO, and
the response was £lOl7. Meanwhile the average
Englishman, ignorant of the use of modern fire-
arms, and proud of his inability to hit a haystack
at thirty paces, continues to believe himself equal
to six Frenchmen when he’s roused. But poor old
Roberts can’t rouse him.
Natal is paying a heavy price for the thousands
of Hindu coolies and other dark-skinned gentry
allowed into the country years ago to supply cheap
labor for the sugar-plantations and for the
Government railways. The Natal newspapers
day after day chronicle Hindu misdemeanors,
ranging from fraudulent bankruptcy to murder,
with the consequent finings, impri'sonings, floggings
and hangings. For instance, the weekly Natal
Mercury, for August 4, reports as follows First
page : Four Indians charged with murdering their


m
r
Ushers'
<TOOAC(OS
havestoodthe 1
TEST of TIME
'& ARE GOING STRONG
withouttkeaid
)FT^USTorC°MBINE
The Quality alone L
assuring it* success
0
t Plate
V fl ~obacco
( MAVy <UT)
Tobacco
employer; alleged that they battered his skull in
because he proposed to reduce their wages by Is. per
week. Surrender of his estate by Gooma Moosa.
r ,bAHlEG> ;. a Syrian, fined £l5, alternative 30
days, for smuggling liquor and tobacco. Page 5 :
a Gurkha hanged for the murder of his wife,
. ‘ = Muthusam y, three months’ hard labor for
. e , • ' 6 Kitasamy, compulsory seques-
i-ra ion» t age lo : Six insolvencies announced in
die Government Gazette ; the names suggest
A ' VUA ’ Naidoo, Nayanah, Parak, Poo-
an<l Sulim an. Police return for .June:
, -Europeans arrested, 770 Indians, 36 “other
colored races.” Page 22: Indian assaults two
compatriots; arrested ; attempts to hang himself ;
lays out another Indian with a paving stone ;
t other Indian sent to hospital. Page 23 : Hindu
arrested, charged with murder. That is the Natal
record, not for a year, as. some might think,
but for one week. Natal keeps a Hindu hang-
man. His must be a fairly lucrative billet if he
scrags on piece-work.
K HE IS V; S ;, W - Government has put a sensible Bill
through the Leg. Council dealing with money-
enders; under it, no money-lending transaction
Mill hold in a court if the interest or charges are
excessive. If Moses Isaacstein (whose name is
or ten It benuzer J ones when he’s a worse Mo. than
usual) has over-reached himself, the court may fix
matters up in what it regards as an equitable way.
ihe b.M. Herald says that the protection is very
badly needed (it had to say that, because this Bill
so tar is a copy of a Bill which the blessed British
House of Parliament has passed), but that, of
course, it will only make things worse for some
borrowers, because the lender, having now to take
oxtra risks, will demand extra flesh. He will, in
short, get his extra bit of flesh when the matter
oes , n . q 6 *' mto court, in order to counter-balance
the bit that the court will take out of the scales at
other times. Having thus landed hard-up
humanity in the mud, the S.M. Herald passes on
r r* e next subject. Probably there’s a good deal
of hard-up humanity that will get in the mud and
stay there, no matter what is done for them ; but,
for the rest, what’s the matter with public pawn-
shops—municipal or State ? The appalling rate
of interest now charged is to a great extent the
result, not of tremendous risks, but of the tremen-
dous number of harpies whom the borrowers have
to support. Cheap loans are impossible, because
each lender has to make one small transaction last
him so long in bread, onions and cigars—and even
bad cigars cost some money. If the S.M. Herald
is certain that the private money-lender will only
be more of a harpy because of any law to protect
his customer, then, as the Herald says the cus-
toiner ought to be protected, obviously the only
way is to abolish the private money-lender. Or,
at any rate, give the customer the option of going
to a public money-lender, who won’t fleece him,
and won’t have to make one small transaction
go so far.
Some extracts from an Adelaide Advertiser
article on the Northern Territory, by James
.Robertson :
It is the business street in Port, Darwin, and contains
some 20 or 30 shops or stores. Only one was inhabited
and kept by a white man ; the others, of all sizes and
descriptions, being owned and run by the übiquitous
Dhow. I subsequently found that there was a small hotel
kept by whites in that street, and two other hotels, a
®® u P* e streets away. These with two, or it may be
three, stores kept by whites, comprise the business estab-
lishments of the city of Palmerston, excepting- the two
solicitors’ offices, two banks, and the office of the
-Northern Territory Times. .... The European stores
were punctually closed on the Saturday afternoon, and
religiously kept closed all day Sunday. John does not,
however, content himself with trading on the Sunday, but
in the most open and glaring manner invites all and sun-
dry to step in and take a hand at dominoes, fantan, or
one of the many other gambling games incessantly kept
going. All this in the main street, with open doors and
no restriction. John also supplies his own countrymen
and blacks with as much grog as he is asked for. . . ,
When once a blaekboy or a gin acquires a taste for opium
(and they do so in an incredibly short time) they are body
and soul under the control of the wretches who supply
their craving for the drug. Every threepence, sixpence,
or shilling, the gin or boy may obtain, is at once traded
with the-Chinaman for opium,. The victims are, mostly
between their spells of semi-unconsciousness or recovery,
at the beck-aryl.call of the Chinaman, who treats the
poor wretches in the vilest and most disgraceful manner.
It is distressing to see the young gins and big-framed
olack boys, so completely and so surely being “wiped out ”
in this way. . . . John is supposed to be debarred from
holding mining leases or mineral rights. He gets over
that difficulty by simply making some derelict white man
a small partner in his show, in consideration of the
said white taking out licenses in his name and giving John
written acknowledgment of the fact. The gold that the
nominal lessee obtains as his share is absolutely the only
portion of that taken out of the ground which lis not at
once sent off to China, there to be hoarded bv the sender's
relations until he goes back to his native country to claim
it. A good deal of misapprehension seems to exist about
the Chinaman as a miner. My experience has gone to
prove that he must be about the worst miner in the
world ; at any rate, he is the worst I have yet come
across. He never prospects. During the whole time I
was in the Northern Territory I never heard of a China-
man going out prospecting. What he does is to root
about old workings at or near the surface. He will not
put in a drive more than a few feet, unless it is absolutely
unavoidable, and then it is with fear and trembling. He
sinks small shafts just about large enough to crawl down,
opens it out a little when he gets down to the wash or
reef, and then starts another hole, perhaps 10 or 12 feet
away. Thus his mining is absolutely useless for further
exploiting, and. generally, the shaft or hole caves in
shortly after he has ceased to use it.
When the No. 3 Supply Bill was before the
Senate, a surprising outburst of Toryistti took
place. Senators Pulsford and Simian Phraser,
as well as Gould and Millen, got off huge masses
of eloquence about various subjects, and most of
them were angry about the White Australia
policy. Simian Phraser poses as an authority on
land ; and, as he owns some big slices of the con-
tinent, he ought to know something about the
matter. In his eagerness to defend the squatter,
he made the following remarkable statement:—
I could name many men who left large estates which
have since been broken up by their families. Take the
case of the Robertsons, of Colac ; the Manifolds, and the
Blacks. Mr. Neil Black died years ago, and his estates
have all been out up.
As a matter of fact, the very reverse is the case,
except as regards the Robertsons. Both the Mani-
folds and the Blacks have actually added to
their holdings since the death of their fathers.
When Phraser uses the terms “ broken up ” and
“cutup,” all he means is, that the owners have
let their land, at high rentals, for dairying pur-
poses, and have thereby doubled and trebled
their incomes. One of the Manifolds has sold a
few of his farms, but the other two are very keen
landlords; and one has become famous—or
notorious—as “Penny Manifold,” on account
of his system of paying his share-dairymer.
only a penny per gallon for their milk. Tin
Black brothers own all that their father left
them, and have since bought two more stations •
This monstrous grabbing policy is what old Simiaj
balls breaking up large estates.
The . Victorian Chamber of Manufacturer; is
striking at what is perhaps the main root of the
prejudice against Australian goods. It borrows
the use of suburban town halls for “matinee”
demonstrations of Vic. manufactures in their
various stages of development, and it dedicate s
these object lessons to ladies. President Atkins
and.sundry sistern of the Advance Victoria party
address the Sex on the local industry subject, and
discuss the exhibits. Those ladies for whom
shows are intended are the women who, as a rule,
have no local tradesmen in the family, and have
never yet looked at a factory with interested eyes—
women who may have employed a parlormaid for
years, without troubling to know that Mary has
half-a-dozen brothers engaged in making goods
which she (the missus) never buys—because they
are “colonial.”
Puck ” on the defence question :
tj ,' 1 o 0 deal has been written for and against General
Hi iton s scheme of defence organisation, but so far its
most ridiculous feature has escaped comment. His aim
was to create a mobile field force, capable of undertaking
military operations in foreign countries, and for that pur-
pose he designed six brigades of infantry, each brigade to
form a military unit complete in itself, with its comple-
ment of artillery, engineers, &c., and able to take the
held independently at the shortest notice. That being
his object, no geographical obstacle was allowed to stand
hHe way. State boundaries are recog'nised in the cases
of \ ictoria and N.S. W., but Queensland, Tasmania,
S.A. and W.A. are expected to mobilise their troops
in joint brigades as soon as war is declared. The
3rd Infantry Brigade, for instance, consists of a regi-
ment from all four States, artillery from Queensland,
i A., and Tasmania; no engineers; and a field hospital
from Queensland and S.A. The W.A. Light Horse belong
to the S.A. brigade ; and the Tasmanian to that of Vic-
toria. General Hutton’s theory was, no doubt, that
transports would collect the scattered fragments of his
brigades from each State, and dump them down for
mobilisation at some foreign port. Whether such a
system would, even in that case, result in efficient brigades
is an open question ; but for the simple defence of Aus-
tralia it is difficult to conceive a more ridiculous arrange-
ment. For example, W.A., on declaration of war,
would be expected to send a regiment of in-
fantry and a battery of field artillery coasting
round all Australia to Brisbane, the brigade head-
quarters ; would see its only regiment of Light Horse
shipped off to Adelaide ; and would be left with an army
of 1155 men for its own defence. This is the scheme that
met with the approval of Big.tohn Forrest, the first
Minister of Defence, and has since been endorsed by each
successive Minister. To be effective, and to provide for
efficient Australian defence, the present brigade organisa-
tion must be entirely swept away, and a new system
adopted which will take the defence requirements of
definite geographical areas into special account in the
arrangements for mobilisation. The subject must in
fact be treated as an Australian one and from a
national standpoint, without any special regard
for the imaginary boundary lines which constitute the
separate States, with their separate populations. It will
be interesting to see whether Senator Playford and the
new Council of Defence will have the courage to formu-
late a sensible scheme with this in view, or whether the
Imperialistic influences of the late G.O.C. are still strong
enough to prevent any radical reform in the military
organisation. ,
♦
The Westralian elections are not completed yet;
but it is already evident that the Labor party has
gone down, and great has been the siiikage
thereof. It has lost eight or nine seats in
all. It has lost its new leader, Johnson,
of Kalgoorlie. The small Independent group,
which gave a general support to the late
Labor Ministry, has lost its leader, Moran,
and has been considerably damaged otherwise.
The one-time Labor leader, ex-Premier Daglish,
has come back again, but as a renegade and an
Independent. He secured a majority of 79 at
Subiaeo, which is at least 49' more than the
majority that Judas Iscariot got when he was
elected in Matthew xxvi., 15, and 81 better
than the luck of Peter when the rooster
beat him by two. All the same, it is worth
remembering that only a year ago, before
he backslid, Daglish’s majority at Subiaeo was
1417. Premier Rason who is practically a relic of
the old Bigjohn school of thought, seems now to
be firmly seated, but apparently Rason is going in
for a further policy of borrow and boom and burst,
and under these circumstances it rests with the
Labor party whether his reign will be long or
short. It is no use looking back on the past
misfortunes, which were numerous, or the past
blunders, which were mostly the work of the ill-
chosen leader; this is now the time for Labor
to glue its eye on the future. It lost its previous
chance for want of a vigorous policy, but if it gets
a vigorous policy now the opportunity will come
again before long. But the party wants one
or two new principles—above all the anti-bor-
rowing principle, and the anti-deficit principle,
and the fixed conviction that it must provide for
public works out of revenue, by hard economy
and by taxing absentees and monopolists. It
wants to beware of the fatal fluency of Tommy
Walker, and to convince the people that the next
Labor Premier won’t “mark time” like the lym-
phatic Dagli.sh, but will go ahead from the moment
he attains to office, and keep going. The late
Labor Ministry was doomed from the moment
when Daglish settled down comfortably, like a
moss-grown precedent sitting on a tomb, to enjoy
the dignity of his billet and do nothing in particu-
lar except look moderately beautiful. The people
of N.S. W. can appreciate the position in which he
placed the Westralian Laborites. They are
accustomed to seeing the local Labor party
doing almost as little as Daglish did.
If your muscles ache it may be your blood
—Wolfe’s Schnapps cures rheumatism. If you
need a bracing tonic for general exhaustion.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best in the world.*
Horse racing, as a rule, is in sore need of
purification. Its morals want washing. But those
members of the V.R.O. who visit Daly’s new
Turkish Baths in the Royal Arcade, Melbourne,
have at least a love of external cleanliness which
must assuredly permeate to their inner consciences.
After a healthful two or three hours at Daly’s
Turkish Baths a man feels good. The improve-
ment in his body has brought virtue to his mind.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Merely Mary Ann. ”
Theatre Royal “ The Mockery of Marriage.”
Criterion “For the Term of His Natural
Life.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury.”
Her Majesty’s “ Paul Jones.”
Theatre Royal “The Betting Book.”
Opera House Rickards’ Co.
Bijou The Skirt Dancer.
Princes Bridge Wirth’s Circus.
Fitzgerald's Building. . Eroni Bros.’Circus.
Atiikn.ku.m Hall The Bio-Tableau.
The “Merely Mary Ann” stage story,
told for the first time in Australia at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday night, has thus
nothing very strikingly original about it. It dif-
fers from the others in that Zangwill has told it in
bright, sin art dialogue. Sometimes, in fact, the
dialogue'is too smart—Zangwill helps along his
oWn reputation at the expense of his characters.
He makes Mary Ann say maladroit things, for
instance, that even the unsophisticated slavey
wogld baulk at. But these are trifles. Taken as
a whole, and with some reservations concerning
the artificial last act, “Merely Mary Ann” is
well-constructed, with some simple, telling
climaxes, and is bright all through.
* * * *
Miss Titkell Brune finds in it one of her
best parts ; 'in the early comedy section, before she
has any notion of ever being anything but merely
Mary Ann, she is strikingly successful. But most
interest in the production centres in Douglas
Gerrard, the newly-imported Launcelot of the
story. He is excused because on Saturday he had
a swollen arm ; an insect had found out the new
blood. If, however, the insect was wholly
responsible, it was a very powerful beastie.
It made him stiff and stagey on first night,
and never really convincing. Possibly an insect
has bitten Launcelot, too; anyway, that young
man, though nominally the hero—Mary Ann’s
hero— lS often a prig and sometimes a cad. On
the other hand, Albert Gran’s Peter (Peter is
Launcelot’s chum) is at times too boisterous;
Peter is a boisterous person certainly, but Gran
keeps him blowing a steady gale. Apart from
that, it isn’t often that principals are so well
supported. Miss Susie Vaughan’s Mrs. Lead-
batter (Mrs. Leadbatter has in her time kep’ two
husbands eatin’ their heads off, and now keeps a
boarding-house) is a low-comedy performance that
is worth the money in itself ; and Miss Irby Mar-
shall doesthe best work she has yet accomplished as
the simpering Rosy Leadbatter. J. B. Atholwood
makes but a brief appearance as Brownson, a
German-Jew music publisher, and that can be
BIBLE PICTURES FOR THE YOUNG.
LITTLE BOY: “ Who killed him?"
IMPORTER CAIN: “Am I my brother's keeper? ”
bracketted with the other very good things.
Herein, by the way, Zangwill gets home on the
Gentile ; for Bruwnson spends most of the little
time he is on the stage imploring the Gentile to
take money, and voluntarily adds a fiver to the
pay for the music of a new “ popular” song.
*• * * *
“Thunderbolt,” Miss Duggan, and the
other philanthropists will give up bushranging at
Sydney Royal on Friday night; on Saturday
‘‘The Mockery of Marriage” will begin to teach
some great moral lesson that isn’t quite apparent
on the surface at present.
* * iff *
The bushranger dominates the jungles ancl
forests of Sydney. It is not safe to go into the-
city these night.; with your gold watch and chain ;
hanging out of your coat-tail pocket. If youi
leave a bag of sovereigns on the footpath outside;
the Criterion theatre whilst you go into the
nearest bar to drink a bottle of cold tea,
it’s a bad banana to a thousand pounds
that the money won’t be there when you come
back. An emissary of Captain Starlight has
taken it, of course. After a good run for its
money, “Robbery Under Arms” goes off the
Criterion stage this week, and will be replaced by
“ His Natural Life ”on Saturday night. Now, if
ever there was an Australian story made up of
loathing and love, and fashioned in tears and
laughter, it is this same tale of the convict days.
And the drama shows the story and so saves you
reading or re-reading it.
iff -Mf iff *
The second of the Holman-Mayman re-
citals was, like the first, handicapped by hideous
weather. The Holman-Mayman combination is
remarkable for its good acting, which shows long
and careful preparation, and for its beautiful
dressing. In a Japanese sketch Neville Mayman
rather overdid the part of the honorable Son of the
Bulldog Breed who did not desert the little Miss
Chrysanthemum, and stayed on to rear a piebald
family. The piebald family did not appear at the
recital. Later on, in the screen scene from “ The
School for Scandal,” the quality of the work im-
proved considerably. Mr. W. Holman played the
part of Charles Surface in a manner that will
cause his best friends to have doubts about his ;
real character. Mr. Wilson’s interpretation of
the character of Joseph Surface proves that Joseph,
was certainly no class, while Mr. May man’s.
Sir Peter Teazle was a very respectable and;
natural old baronet. The object of the Holman-
Mayman recitals is to give the gems of English
and Continental drama in easy doses, stripped of
all the padding which the unfortunate authors had
to tack on to them in order that the carpenters
might have a show to do their part of the business
without interrupting the audience. It is the age
of the short story, and the gem-scene dramatic re-
cital is in accordance with the spirit of the age.
In the meantime, Messrs. Holman and Mayman
should arrange for better weather.
** * *
Hill and Whitaker and Payen and Lucie
depart this week from Sydney Tivoli to make
room for the Comedians de Mephisto Co., who
appear on Saturday, and, if report is true, are
merry devils. There are three of them, and they
are in business as mirthful magicians. Mean-
while Miss Rosa Gore continues to be as thin a
streak as ever. Plumpness is a pleasure she may
never aspire to, for a very great deal of the humor
of her turn with Daniel Crim mins arises from the
fact that she is such a thin trickle of gore.
iff * * iff
Two performances of “ Everyman,” at the-
Town Hall, were not such as to set Melbourne
yearning for any future repetition of that gloom-
some allegory. One is impressed by “ Evervman ”
as by a funeral on a wet day or a visit to the con-
sumptive ward of a hospital. Some holy monks
in the 15th century are said to have built this
‘ ‘ morality ” play for the good of the people, and.
the statement as to authorship is true on the face,
of things. The trouble starts with a crude sugges-
tion of heaven in the background—the kingjitae
aforesaid being a cloudland, where God, in the
original productions, sat enthroned, with a monk
on His right hand and a nun on His left. The
Williamsonian production omits the Almighty
from the picture, but His voice is heard
calling upon Death to summon Every-
man to his doom. Here endeth the im-
proving vision of Heaven. The action of the
morality is mostly carried out in front of a
tapestry screen. Death appears, and serves his
summons upon Everyman, who misrepresents
common humanity to an absurd degree. He is
young and beauteous—a Julius Knight among
men—and he has so much health and wealth that
he can’t face Death with the fortitude of a worn-
out toiler. In his distress he seeks the support of
various abstracts—Fellowship, Kindred, Beauty,
Property, Strength, Discretion, etc. All of them
dislike the idea of going to the dim Hereafter with
their young friend. They either beg to be excused
right away or they jib at the sight of
an alleged grave in the closing scene. Only
Knowledge and Good Deeds can go with him.
Knowledge is a tall commanding lady who stands .
for all he knows about Church dogmas seemingly,
whilst Good Deeds is a young nun. Unfortunately
Good Deeds can’t stir hand or foot until Every-
man has got absolution from a priest, but he meets
this difficulty by confessing his sins, and doing
penance, after which his funeral commences.
Thanks to the Church’s kindness Good Deeds and
Knowledge are able to see the hero through to his
destination, wherever that may be, or rather they
say they will accompany him, but as all the lime-
light is reserved for Julius Everyman, the ladies
leave him to be buried alone. Good Deeds slinks
behind the tapestry and Knowledge remains where
she was. A pretty musical angel and an invisible
chorus provide a suitable climax. The Church has
saved Everyman’s soul. It can’t be that he goes
to the innermost Heaven where only monks and
nuns are admitted, but he joins the angels in the
neighboring atmosphere. The story is better
acted than spoken by the Williamson co., none of
MERELY MARY ANY.
She came from Somersetshire and her name was Mary
Ann—
Merely Mary Ann—
And her farther and her mavvther both were dead ;
Likewise little sister Sally had measured her life’s span,
So Mary Ann was left alone to battle for her bread.
Excepting' brother Thomas, but she “never mentioned
he ”
A wicked fellow Thomas who had fled across the sea,
Leaving Mary Ann a slavey in a hoarding-house in town,
Where Israel Zangwill found her with a cap upon her
crown—
Merely Mary Ann,
Of the boarders there vvas Launcelot, a man of genius,
Who wrote music, classic music, and had a mighty soul;
But in the chase for publishers he always missed the ’bus,
So financially this Launcelot was mostly in a hole.
He’d a baronet for father, and his body oozed with pride ;
So in no one save the slavey would proud Launcelot con-
fide—
>•'" She was merely Mar^'Ann.
He confided in a lordly way, as she polished up his boots,
And they mutually decided music publishers were brutes ;
Till Mary Ann was Smitten in her simple’ childish way ;
And he talked of pigs and elm-trees and the pleasant
month of May,
And a cottage in the country for himself and Mary Ann.
But a wedding didn’t figure in the genius’s plan—
She was merely Mar}’ Ann.
Oily Deering as a vicar next appeared upon the scene—
The vicar of the village where this Mary Ann had been—
With the news that brother Thomas had left this world
of care,
After striking oil in Texas, and had died a millionaire.
He had died a lonesome Thomas, and to Polly left his pot.
But she didn’t, want the lucre, only wanted Launcelot—
Didn’t want to change her duster for an ostrich-feather
fan,
Wanted only to continue his devoted Mary Ann—
His own merely Mary Ann.
But the vicar patted Polly from her long-haired
Launcelot,
Whereupon he gaye up classics, and he wrote much
tuneful rot,
Till he likewise rolled in riches. But he’d lost his
Marion,
And he hadn’t any notion where his old-time mash was
gone ;
Till he found her in a mansion—she was soulful, cultured,
sweet ;
And of course he threw his genius and his fame at
Marion’s feet ;
And the marriage that aforetime couldn’t possibly occur—
Well, the obstacles had vanished with the long-lost
millionaire.
But Marion discarded her silks and feather fan,
And said if he would have her it must be as Mary Ann—
So he married Mary Ann.
The moral of the story : If your name is Mary Ann
You can mount to fame and glory by a very simple plan ;
Give the well-born boots of genius an extra-shiny shine,
And your brother Tom who’s something in the Texan
struck-oil line
Will die and leave his dollars to his sister Mary Ann.
Each Mary Ann’s an heiress,
A prospective millionairess
If she’ll only follow out this very simple pleasant plan.
She’ll be Mary Ann no longer, she’ll be Lady Marion,
With no awful missus watching that she doesn’t “ carry-
on.”


whom, save Julius Knight, have their names
printed on the programme. The leading man is
foggy in his enunciation, and the ends of his lines
are lost in the dropping of his voice, but he plays
forcibly, the portrayal of terror and collapse being
admirable. Death, Property, Good Deeds and
Knowledge deserve favorable mention; also,
Beauty scores a full success with a few words, in
which she declares that the cold grave is no place
for her.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s a more than
merely passable performance of “In Town was
achieved by The Players last Saturday, and will
occur again until Friday—six nights in all. Re-
garded as a first attempt by an almost entirely
amateur force, and compared with The Players’
best work in serious comedy, this treatment of
“ In Town ” settles any doubts concerning White
Australian talent for the stage. It is a talent of ani-
mation, alertness, dancing, singing, and audacity.
The Australian girl is not a mistress of quiet effect.
When there is nothing in particular to do she
usually fails to do it very well. Her amateur brother
actor is even more lacking in the arts of mannah
and repose. But when they undertake a frivolous
piece and launch out into variety business they
show the natural national capacity for sport.
The girls dance charmingly, and with remarkable
spirit, in “In Town.” Miss Addie Hine, as Flo
Fanshaw, is a prettier artist than was the im-
ported “ Gaiety ” danseuse of yore in the same
part. Miss Irene Dillon, as the Call Boy, is
equally clever on her young feet, and the
Folly Ballet, by eight willing damsels,* strikes
one as being about the swiftest thing Melbourne
has seen. Miss Malyon is a successful prima
donna in all respects except her make-up, and
among the other long-frocked ladies the only one
who looks very ill at ease is Miss Gray. She
makes some amends by singing creditably enough.
Lawrence Hardinge plays Captain Coddington
with plenty of dash, intelligence and rough-edged
humor. Harry Quealy (long time of Pollard’s
Juvenile Co.) is an extravagantly foolish Rev.
Hopkins. Miss Henningham wears the trousers
of Lord Clanside, and Hal Cohen gets the difficult
part (for a young amateur) of the elderly Duke—
and.doesn’t shape at all badly in it. The orchestra
fully meets the case, likewise the scenery by
George Upward, junr. But the noblest item of
the hotel scenery is citizen John Dane disguised
as the German commissionaire.
On Saturday of this week Nellie Stewart
starts a farewell season at the Princess’s; an
absolutely final last season previous to her sailing
for the land of the Stars and Trusts. “Sweet
Nell” will set the ball of adieux rolling. One or
two previous revivals have been limited to a single
performance, with the result that huge masses of
public were turned away from the doors, so this
next revival is billed for six nights and a matinee.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the influ-
ence of General Desire was brought to bear upon
the management, and “The Orchid” is putting
in a second week. On Saturday (4th) “ A Country
Girl” will break out again, but on Cup Night the
bill is to be “Paul Jones,” .with Miss Florence
Young, just back from America, in the piratical
name-part. After four nights of “ Paul ” the new
comic opera “ Veronique ” introduces Messager’s
music to Australia.
** * *
Melbourne Bijou uncloses its doors next
Saturday. Geo. Stephenson’s co. is about to air
the premises with a revival of “The Skirt
Dancer ” in the first place.
* * X- *
At Melbourne Royal, ‘ ‘ The Betting Book, ”
undamned by the play-bill’s faint praise, “ power-
ful as a sermon,” drew a vast congregation on
Saturday. There are many Wesleyan blessings
in store for berrother Bland, but, apart from “ The
Book’s ” anti-tote, anti-boolde sentiments, it con-
tains much that is interesting. Australian types
and situations are used exclusively, though most
of the time the treatment is “quite English, you
know.” What price, for instance, the revels of
the station-hands, on the occasion of the chris-
tening of the squatter’s infant son ? Sutton
Vane writes up this scene in the best British
manner, and we have Union shearers ordering
themselves lowly and reverently towards their
betters, and proffering in the innocence of their
good, simple hearts, gifts such as shaving-mugs,
etc., to the monthling babe. On the other hand,
one gets occasionally a whiff of something more
like the true eucalypt, as in the episode of the
fascinating bank clerk who marries the rich squat-
ter’s sister, backs horses, and “does the funny biz.
with the bank’s beans.” The importance of the
bank clerk is a peculiarity of this country. So far as
the characters are concerned, weak points are the
villains, whose sinfulness, aimless but untiring, is
made the most of by Styan and Charlie Brown
respectively. The latter, billed as a Hebrew
bookie, belies the cute bend of his beak by tamely
tagging at Styan’s heels through one unprofitable
felony after another. Melodrama builds too much
on revenge. Off the stage the sinner safeguards
his skin first and smites his enemy when he can
do so in perfect safety. Sutton Vane and co. de-
pict the unprovoked avenger as boring his way to
the scaffold by inches. Foiled in an attempt to
abduct his victim’s wife one day, lie barefacedly
returns next morning to tempt the-victim' himself
to put the penny he stole from his starving child
into a sweep, or to rob and murder the rich kins-
man, who dozes in the intervals of raising the
victim’s clan from poverty to affluence.
* * * *
“ The Betting Book ” is strong in stage
pictures. The Tote Shop scene, said to be the
facsimile of the “Collingwood Curse” culminates
in the thrill of an unsuccessful police raid. A
steeplechase, with live horses in the leading roles,
is another feature. Bland Holt himself is much to
the fore as a footballer, “ pug,” jockey, and general
laugh-fakir. Mrs. Bland plays well up to her
comic colleague and looks her part. Walter Baker
as a rollicking squatter rollicks for all he’s worth,
and Miss Harrie Ireland is effective as the
gambler’s decorative and devoted wife. Max
Maxwell scores as the plunging bank-clerk, while
his stage son and heir is represented at different
stages of growth by three different child-mummers.
** # *
The circuses by Princes Bridge are blow-
ing their trumpets as before. Melbourne could
have been happy with either were t’other dear
circus away, but the presence of two at once is
not a matter for complaint. Moreover the rival
advts. are exciting literature. Wirth Bros, lay
special stress on the Demon looper of the Death
Trap and their herd of elephants, whilst the
Eroni brethren call attention to their accumulation
of talent in the arena. Wirths’ show is indirectly
assisted by the appearance of their pet Demon at
Princes Court, where he cycles down a steep
incline and goes bounding over an empty space
before he bumps the second section of the track.
Which suggests that he is practising at the Court
in readiness for a possible hitch in the Death Trap
at the circus.
CROWDED.
According to the
woman's page of S.M.
HERALD last week: “ When the
Romans came to Britain they found
all the inhabitants living in one room."
A pack of fashionables spread over Prahran
Town Hall on Friday night, when “Lady Hunt-
worth’s Experiment” was perpetrated by a
set of fashionable amateurs. Mrs. Fred Payne
and the one swell Levey family of this State
(where the children of Israel are not in any social
prominence) ran the show, and sold pasteboards
at a good figure. The mumming was not as bad
as it might have been. Miss Marjorie Levey
(whose debut recently made a flutter in the
Toorak neighborhood) played the pretty in-
genue. Miss Beatrice Norman whipped up
the eggs for the mayonnaise, just as a divorced
aristocrat of blameless reputation would whip
them up. A person of loose character would
have done the thing quite differently. A son
of Surgeon O’Hara, and two Strong brothers (sons
of the Australian Church parson) helped the show
along. A daughter of Bully Barrister Purves
libelled her nice self as a vinegary old maid of
angular lines. Miss Edith Appleton scored better
for a burlesque make-up as the washer-up of the
Vicarage.
** * *
A wide change of company is nearly due at
the Opera House. Le Roy, Talma and Bosco, the
lively tricksters, are departing for another place
this week with all their poultry and appurtenances.
Also the Jackson Family, and Spry, and Miss
Challis and other people will retire before an ad-
vancing host of fresh attractions.
** * *
The Stephenson Co. is finishing its season
at Adelaide Tivoli. There are no new pieces.
May Beatty skims through her parts in her usual
absent-minded manner; Edward Lauri makes
love much and often; M‘Naughton and the
brothers Bovis work hard in support. The
laughter is of that easy kind which bubbles up
at a witty joke, but boils over and shakes the
roof when a man is understood to have torn his
trousers. Maggie Stirling has come, appeared
before some deadly poor houses at the Town Hall,
and gone away discouraged. The Sunday show
is a new idea and causes unforeseen developments.
The Sabbath sportsman can do a “grand band
concert ” at the Jubilee oval in the afternoon, and
at night make choice between a “grand vocal and
instrumental concert, with bioscope ” at the
Tivoli, and a “complimentary benefit, with
phonograph,” at the circus ; which is going rather
far for churchy Adelaide.
* * ae *
More Irving memories :
Fred. B. Norton talks reminiscently of the late Irving.
He remembers the long, lean Henry as leading man of
John Knowles’s co., at the Theatre Royal, Manchester, in
1868 or thereabouts, what-time Alfred Dampier, Clifford
Cooper (father of Cooper Cliff, a high-salaried actor of to-
day) and Fred Everill were members of the co. Knowles
was a soulless drama-monger, who conducted his business
on tbe meanest principles, and probably paid Irvine ten
“ bob ” a week more than Dampier got for his labor.
There wasn’t much advantage in being leading- man. A
few years afterwards, when Irving re-visited Manchester,
he was asked to head a subscription in aid of the gifted
Everill, whose chronic thirst had brought him to grief.
The great man staggered the subscription-committee by
declining to put his name down. “No,” said he, “I
cannot give you anything. ... I will allow my
poor friend £2 a week for life ” —which was a kindly
way of dealing with a difficult ease. Everill
lived for not more than two or three years afterwards.
It was at Manchester in his struggling days that Irving,
Fred Maccabe and Phil Day conspired to “burst up ” the
spiritualistic fraud of the Davenport Bros., then gulling
thousands of believers at the Free Trade Hall. The
Davenports were working the cabinet trick for the first
time, and the Spirits were alleged to loosen the brethren
from the cords that bound them. Irving and co. fixed
them so securely that the Spirits couldn’t untie the knots.
Subsequently the triumvirate were induced to appear at
the Gentlemen’s Concert Hall, Manchester, for a charity,
and give an exposure of the knot trick that had put the
Davenports to flight. It wasn't in Manchester, says Fred
Norton, that Charles Dickens was” struck by Irving’s
work in “Dearer Than Life.” The drama - with
Irving in the co.—-was produced at the old Queen’s
Theatre, Long Acre (London), under the management of
Labouchere, a rather enterprising theatrical speculator
before he started Truth. Probably Labby’s obituary
notice of the actor will state what salary he got for
making his first little mark in London at the Queen’s.
And there is the oft-told story of how Irving, soon after
he made his great hit in “ The Bells,” was introduced to
Barry Sullivan by a mutual friend. Barry, at the time,
was storming to neglected benches at the Holborn
Theatre. The new “star” seemed genuinely glad to
know the old-school tragedian. “Proud to meet you,
Mr. Sullivan,” he said. The veteran replied, with lofty
politeness: “Irving, Irving—l have heard the name.
Are you playing in London, young- sir
Ambrose Pratt’s dramatic yarn of “Thunder-
bolt” has been published in book form by the States
Publishing- Co., and is now selling excitedly on the book
stalls. The “ Thunderbolt ” memoirs on newspaper pub-
lication created something- like a sensation, especially in
Victoria, where the Argus had to go back on its tracks
and reprint its earlier numbers containing the beginning
of the serial to meet the demand. The book, which
comes to the public in a very attractive get-up, is likely
to be a popular su -cess.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Died recently in Adelaide Destitute Asylum ex-mummer
Joseph Gardner, whose patchy career was at its brightest
in Australia what time George Ooppin ran shows at the
old Variety Theatre, Light Square, Adelaide. Gardner,
who died at the age of 81, came to Adelaide in 1848,
after having risen to some prominence in England as a
vocalist. Coppin persuaded him to take to the stage,
and he first appeared in “Love Laughs at Locksmiths,”
which ran for three weeks at the above-named house.
Later he went to Victoria, and played small Sh'akspearean
parts at the old Queen’s Theatre, then owned by J. T.
Smith. After a spell at gold-seeking, he formed the
Vaudeville Expedition Co., touring overland from Sydney
to Brisbane. Business was g'ood at first, but four or five
of the company were seldom sober enough to appear, and
the venture ended in failure. Gardner worked back to
Melbourne overland with “The Wizard of the North,”
playing as “ Prof. Gardner, Wizard of the Antipodes,
Comedian and Illusionist.” Afterwards he took a pub. at
Inglewood when the diggings were there, and in 1875
settled in Hindmarsh (S.A.). He turned against the stage
in his old age, and wrote a book on it: “The Down
Grade ; Twenty-five Years on the Stage, or the Life of an
Australian Actor, his Experiences and Vicissitudes.”
“ Ande ” : I found the north bank of our only Yarra
decorated with a string of red, white, and blue lights.
The boat-houses on the south bank were outlined with
red, white, and blue lights, and the house-boats on the
corner, by way of variety, were each a separate blaze of
red, white, and blue. The promoters got the Chinamen
who made the lanterns for boat decoration to paint upon
them Union Jacks and St. George's ensigns. These lan-
terns were carried on a line in the boats from stem to
stern. Originality was shown in each boat being decorated
differently—that is to say, no two boats carried the same
number of red, white, and blue lanterns. The largest
boat carried twelve, and there was a canoe on the river
without a light. About nine o’clock a large number of
rockets —fully ten—showing red, white, and blue lights
were sent up ; and a boat came down the river burning
Roman candles. These same candles are glorified squibs,
each emitting three balls (of fire), respectively red, white,
and blue. A crowd waited about Princes Bridge until
10.30 p.m. for the show to commence, and then went
home, with red language, white faces, and a general
feeling of the blues.
King Edward, by his royal desire to that effect, pre-
vented the production of a Passion play at a London
theatre after the tableaux had been designed and the
dresses ordered. The Church party is mostly in favor of
these Passion mummeries, and the Jews are just as
strongly antagonistic to them, on the g'round that the
New Testament story of the Crucifixion is a monstrous
Christian libel on the Chosen people and priests of the
period. It looks as though King Edward was influenced
by King Cohen.
“E.”: Regarded as a dramatic sermon for up-to-date
people, the Morality play “ Everyman ” is open to the ob-
jection that it insists upon the awfulness of a mortal’s
decease, as though Death were a punishment for the crime
of getting Born. On the other hand, “Everyman” may
be complacently accepted as a relic of the dark ages, for if
it one time expressed a popular dread of the inevitable in
Nature, it now prompts the miserable sinner to thank
God that the times are more comfortable than they were
when religion held the whip over common sense. Fear of
Death is fear of Hell and other after effects which the pro-
fessed experts in Futurity pretend to know' all about.
Disbelieving in the old Hell and blazes, a reasonable
person declines to shudder at the thought of dying.
“Everyman” appeals only to the shudderers.
Florence Challis is a sufferer from gastritis, and has to
endure the starvation cure. She puts much heart and
soul into the “ Old Bull and Bash ” ditty, but it is cruelty
to ask a starving girl to sing about a bull —the animal the
beefsteak comes from.
“0.0,”.: Miss Maud Jeffries intends retiring from the
boards now the Princess season is ended, and will be Mrs.
henceforth. She has been acting like it. Her work for
the last few weeks has been that of the comfortable mar-
ried lady lagging superfluous on the stage.
“N. 8.”: “Everyman,” recently revived by J. C.
Williamson, was turned into English only after the
Buddhist original had passed through several other
languages, including Dutch. English playwrights W'ere
just as fond of “adapting” in the fifteenth century as
in later times. The cleric w’ho compiled the English ver-
sion tried hard to impress audiences with the importance
of the clergy. Everyman is assured by Five Wits :
“ Everyman, God gave priests that dignity,
And setteth them in his stead among us to be ;
Thus be they above angels in degree.”
Evidently a barefaced attempt to crib precedence from
the poor unsuspecting angel, which can’t give evidence on
its own behalf, or even make a statement from the
dock.
“J.A.C.”: I used to know recently-deceased tenor,
William Parkinson, very well. He never w'as, as “Thorold
Waters ”(B. 26/10/’O5) says, “ a big man in his day ” ; he
was a g'ood bit above mediocrity, and that is all. His
success w'as entirely due to tw'o or three ringing high
notes ; he could at no time in his career have been classed
as a thoroughly artistic singer, and he was a very poor
actor. In one respect, how'ever, he was remarkable. For
years he travelled the provinces of the United Kingdom,
singing every night in the week, and sbme w'eeks a dif-
ferent opera each night, and I never knew him to he out
iof form. He was a great stayer. Even when he was in
Melbourne he was very fit for an old ’un. I met him once
in Milan, about 30 years ago; he had come over on a
three weeks Cook’s excursion ticket to study Italian
methods. That amused me. We frequently took our
meals together, and he would confidentially tell me that
he didn’t “ think these Italian chaps knew too much”;
and firm in that conviction he w'ent back much re-
freshed. lie was then lessee of the Preston theatre,
Lancashire.
“ Petramos ”: I have seen Henry Irving’s signature. It
loikcd just like “ Ipecacuanha.”
“ O’E.” : When Brighton’s unparalleled farcical trage-
dian, Tom Bent, climbed on to the stage and made a
speech during the interval at a suburban performance of
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” the other night, he was obviously
worried about something. I believe he had arranged to
play the part of Little Eva, but it was found at the last
moment that the wires on which that sweet child is sus-
pended during her apotheosis would hardly bear the
weight of Little Thomas. Hence the tears of one who
would give at least three silver coins to see Thomas, in a
golden wig and a diaphanous nightdress, standing on
tiptoe on a purple cloud.
“S.T.S.”: Australia seems to be a little mixed over
“Comedy and Tragedy.” Some people write as if it were
new or thereabouts ; a Bulletin writer (19/10/’O5) calls it
“one of Gilbert’s early effects in dramatic work.” It
isn’t either. It was written in 1884 (about the same time
as “Mikado ”) for Mary Anderson, then at the height of
her fame. I saw her in it, and, as she played it, it was
magnificent. All Gilbert’s best non-musical work was
earlier than this. “ Pygmalion and Galatea,” “ Palace of
Truth ” &c. ; in fact he has done nothing since that will
live excepting opera-librettos.
An Australian girl has found a new use for appendicitis.
She had a drab billet, with a commercial firm, and wanted
some excitement for a change and incidentally two
salaries.- So she knocked off work for a couple of days, then
bravely pulled herself together and returned for a day, after
which the boss got a letter to the effect that his faithful
servant had acquired the fashionable complaint and had
been sent to the hospital. A week later the kindly boss
made some inquiries concerning her health, and discovered
that if the young lady had appendicitis she was still bear-
ing up bravely, for she was shaking a vigorous serio-comic
leg with a vaudeville co. up-country. The young lady
knows now that you can’t serve the gods and Mammon,
and she probably shakes her vigorous leg along the streets
in quest of a new job.
R. G. Knowles, of the English halls, had a four-page
advt. in a recent issue of The Music Hall and Theatre
Review, said advt. being mainly devoted to an attack
upon a manager—one Oswald Stoll —who bad quarrelled
with him. When managers and “ stars ” fall out the
public get a notion of how the show business is worked.
In the course of his shriek Knowles says—“ With a sneer
Mr. Stoll suggests that although I am by way of retiring,
I am doubtless prepared to consider fresh contracts with
music-hall managers. In response to this I will say that
Mr. Stoll himself announced me broadcast to make fare-
well appearances when all the time he had contracts in
his safe for future dates.” It seems that the beginning
of strained relations between the parties was a personal
request by Stoll that his dear friend Knowles would omit
the word “damn” from his patter, an astounding
request, all things considered. “ Damn ” has ever been
accepted as the most excruciatingly humorous word in
British music-hall patter, especially when it is emphasised
by a bang on the big drum.
“Den”: Re the “ Australian ga-il”(not “gairl,”as in
B. 12/10/’O5). Can any Bulletin reader explain the
inability of the theatrical person to pronounce the simple
word “girl”? I have not heard that word pronounced
properly on the stage for the past two years. All classes
of mummers seem to be afflicted in the same u'ay, even
the distracted “ mothah ” in the bellowdrama, who
shrieks for her darling little “ gee-ull.” Some pronounce
it “gal” ; and there are many variations, but never by
any chance is the letter “r” given a show. (I am not
under the impression that the word is “ gurl” or “gur-
rul.”)
“J.A.C.”: About six weeks ago died Francesco
Tamagno, possibly, as far as voice goes, the greatest
tenor that ever lived. I knew him some 30 years ago,
before he had completed his studies for the operatic
stage, and I never heard any voice at all approaching his.
It was truly what the Italians call “ a cannon of a voice,”
and of a beautiful, virile quality. He was a big man of
magnificent presence. There was nothing much wrong
about his acting, and, although there havfe been, and are,
more artistic vocalists, yet, taking him altogether, there
was no one to equal him. Verdi, whose dictum was that
there were three things requisite for an opera singer,
“ voice, voice, and voice,” used to swear by him, and
possibly sometimes at him, for the maestro was not
always dainty in his language. Tamagno began his
career as a chorus singer at the Teatro Comunale of
Turin, his native city ; afterwards he rapidly made a large
fortune. He must have been worth a mint of money at
the time of his death, for, as the song says, “ he was a
careful man.” One good point about him was that he
put on no “side.” On his many long journeys, by sea
and land, be travelled in regal state at the expense of
the management, but he was always only too pleased to
escape from his swell surroundings and have a game at
cards with his humbler friends in the chorus.
Ryder Sloan “ off ” is a well-mannered Lancashireman,
with the musical burr noticeable in many of the English
plaintive dialect tones. He entertained his ship-
mates not with comic songs about “Bed,” but his
fine voice thrilled them witi: tales of a devout lover. He
and Boy Glen are pals, the boy’s burr being the result of
Sloan’s treatment. He fathers the lad, chooses his ditties,
cooks his patter, and sews his buttons on, for the sake of
dad Glen, who is Ryder’s oldest friend.
“Petramos” : I think Eugenie Duggan, of the Ander-
son co., has discovered the secret of perpetual emotion.
Salv’army officers are resorting- to grotesque devices in
the endeavor to keep Booth’s sweating organisation alive.
One at Blackburn (Eng.) arrays himself in a shroud and
lies in a coffin, which is drawn through the streets on a
truck. When a crowd has gathered he rises and delivers a
sermon called “ Corpses I Have Met,” or something like
that, amid the jeers of the assembled population. Even
these sensational tactics fail to galvanise the moribund
Salv’army into anything like its former condition.
The names of Goldsmith and Sheridan were blazoned at
the sides of Melbourne Bijou proscenium, in the good old
days of Brough and Bouc.icault, to suggest the standard
of comedy the house intended to live up to. And now,
when the theatre is open at all, the galleryite most times
leans a cheaply-oiled head against the classic names while
surveying the death-scenes of Little Willie and Little Eva,
or the turn of a “ dashing and refined London serio,”
imported direct from Footscray.
Adelaide singer Hilda Felstead, who is studying in Lon-
don, recently’ answered the advertisement of a “ musical
agent ” who wanted vocalists for a forthcoming “ high-
class concert.” The agent proved to be an exceedingly-
oily gentleman with an assumed Italian air, and he threw
fits of amazed rapture when he heard Miss Felstead sing.
Next morning the Australian received a typed note offer-
ing her a night’s engagement at two guineas provided she
spent the amount in half a dozen “ sofa stalls ”at the
“ high class ” suburban concert. There was no ensuement
of business.
The late Henry Irving influenced the English schoolof
acting as no other man could have done, for he was both
the most successful and the most peculiar of actors in his
heyday! A crop of Irving imitators sprang up 30
ago. His mannerisms, in a more or less pronounced form,
were spread throvighout the “ profesh,” the big imitators
having- lesser imitators, some of whom, perhaps, never
saw the old original master of the style. Pinero, what
time he figured in the L.yceum co. under the management
of Bateman and afterwards of Irving, was a notorious.)
copy of the leading man, his long, lean figure, his voibe,
and the top part of his face being- naturally Irvingesque,
apart from his studied mimicry. It happened in more
than one show that Pinero, making an early appearance,
got a loud reception from people who mistook his identity.
As an actor, Pinero was not of great account, but the
co. knew him for a clever fellow, and it was Irving who
staged his first piece—a little comedy-drama—in which
he pla.ved the elderly hero. R. C. Carton, who has
written plays almost equal to the best of Pinero’s, was
another young member of the famous Lyceum Co. for a
while, contemporary with Kyrle Bellew, if the present
scribe remembers rightly. Bellew, more especially at the
time of his first visit to Australia, imitated Irving so
closely that his voice has suffered from the unnatural
strain he put upon it. He talked and posed like the
tall, angular “ Chief,” though, of course, the beauteous
little Kyrle was more spry and graceful in his movements.
Irving had a slight limp, caused by a touch of string-halt
or a defect in the shape of one foot. The walk that his
imitators affected after he became famous was natural to
him from the first, but it ranked among the eccentricities
of genius when he brought it into notoriety. A bend in
his nose would have counted as evidence of intellectual
force. \
Something probably in the wav of another record—cer-
tainly something in the way of another horror. At Ilker-
ston (Q.), lately, there was a waltzing competition ; and
the prize, which was to go to the couple who dropped out
last, had to be cut up amongst three couples. They con
tinued the lunacy for five hours, and then had to be
knocked off because the committee wanted to go home
and milk the cows.
It is solemnly recorded by English papers that violinist
Kubelik bathed recently. Evidently he is coming to
Australia, the clean country.


fgs
Education
dfg
Shorthand, Bookkeep-
ing-, Engineer!! g,
Drawing, &c.
“Home Study” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney [2
sd
AMATEUR Photographers
Independent of Daylight
Prints Made in a Few Seconds
By Lamp or Gaslight.
Simple Instructions in Every Packet.
FACTS ARE SAID TO BE STUBBORN
THINGS. Here’s One—
Theße is No
PHOTOGRAPHIC
PRINTING PAPER
SO SinPLE TO USE OR WILL YIELD
BETTER RESULTS than ....
ALL POPULAR SIZES. POPULAR PRICES.
Principal Distributors— ,
HARRINGTON’S
386 GEORGE ST., afp.o. SYDNEY, akd 93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
CANADIAN
CLUB
WHISKY.
The firing of the Stanford-Merthyr coal
mine near Maitland (N.S.W.), last Sunday, is a
tragedy. So far five persons have been killed and
nine injured, and behind that comes the almost
equally pathetic circumstance that 400 men will
be thrown out of work—this at a time when the
coal-miner is none too prosperous, and has com-
paratively few sovereigns stowed away. It is one
of the largest coal mines in Australia which has
met with disaster, and so the distress will be all
the worse. The actual deaths through explosion
were few, yet they leave four widows and 12
orphans. The miner is mostly a married man and
generally a father who does his duty by posterity ;
in fact it is in mining districts that the birth-rate
is highest, while it is in the richest suburbs of
Sydney that it strikes bed-rock. If Vaucluse or
Darling Point blew up in its office the dead
wouldn’t leave many orphans, and the unemployed
wouldn't require to wonder much about the
family crust, there being very little family. But
disaster strikes the coal miner cruelly hard.
» * * *
George Reid’s astute way of putting
things was never more in evidence than in a
recent interview, when he advanced it as his
opinion that Australia should “frankly look to the
British naval forces for its naval protection.” In
other words, we should frankly be cowardly and
dependent and as little like Nelson and the Boys
of the Bulldog Breed as possible, and we should
frankly rely on Ma instead of helping ourselves.
George Beidis capable of putting an adjective like
“frankly” before almost anything. He would
even talk of frankly stealing a copper from a
blind beggar, if it suited him.
WHY SHOULD HE!
BOSS: “ Why, you
young rip! When
I was your age my
boss only gave me
half the salary you
are getting now.”
BOY: “An’ was yer
satisfied! ”
BOSS: “Of course I
was !”
BOY : “ Then, w'y the
’ell should ’e ’ a ’
given ye any more ?”
A N.S.W. Select Committee has decided
that that Orange firebrand, Parson Woolls But-
ledge, of Sydney, didn’t tell the truth in certain
wild accusations against the Civil Service, and on
the evidence it couldn’t possibly decide anything
else. Any ordinary layman might feel utterly
shamed at being thus publicly branded as a retailer
of falsehood, but Parson Woolls will probably
beam in public places just as usual. The par-
sonical conscience is a curious thing at times.
* * * *
The English bishops chosen to appoint
Bishojb Harmer’s successor in Adelaide must be a
tired lot. They don’t seem to worry themselves
in the least, and the Holy City is apparently
doomed to go bishopless for some considerable
time. Alleged reason is that all the clergy to
whom the appointment has been offered are afraid
of the Labor party, or think they won’t be ad-
mitted into Australia, or some such bosh. Ap-
parently they mistake Australia for the U.S.,
where clergymen arriving under engagement are
shut out, despite the frantic lies of a certain Aus-
tralian politician, who says the States open their
arms to all comers.
The parson whose intelligence has become
bun-besotted and leads him to leave the domain of
the thripenny and talk politics, threatens to grow
to the extent of a nuisance. Bev. Worrall, presi-
dent of the Gippsland Wesleyan circuit, lecturing
t’other night at an annual tart-conflict on “ The
Martyr Heroes of Fiji,” concluded by warning his
hearers of the “sinful, selfish, and hardening influ-
ences” of the White Australia policy. Australians,
then, are to improve this country by welcoming
Tannas who convert their dusky innards into
church-yards ? By importing Priam Singhs, to pay
attentions to unprotected women in lonely farm-
houses? Presumably the Bev. Worrall has never
heard of America, the country which has occa-
sionally to burn some of its nigger in the market
place for the “usual offence”? Or of the dear
little Jap girls of the Westralian goldfields? Or
of the Hindu-Malay-Lascar-aboriginal orgies on
the pearling coast up beyond Broome ? Or of the
sly-grog-selling Chow of Palmerston, or of his
sweet, smellful brother, the opium-smuggling,
girl-buying Celestial of Lilly Buk-stleet ? Aus-
tralia isn’t a goody-goody place, as regards its
white population. It drinks rather too much,
cusses a deal too much, and takes much of the
bloom off its generosity and love of freedom by an
assumption of cynicism and carelessness. But it
may be freely claimed that, minus the horrors which
arise from colored aliens and the presence of our
own blacks, the Australian would be one of the
“best sorts” morally in the world. The parson
who pleads for the admission of the crime-
producing colored alien suggests to The Bulletin
a dim suspicion that the threepenny-man is
seeking to make his occupation of sin-chasing safe.
* * * *
’Lige Dowie’s Australian dupes begin to
roll back. One of three, a woman, who returned by
the Sonoma, writes that “ the falsehoods told to
induce us to come were shameful,” and the pro-
mised plentitude of work, high wages, and free
education were in keeping. Men had to go out-
side for work, and the “ Profit ” collared a portion
of the wages, besides (in one case) sending in a
ten-shilling bill for six weeks’ ‘ ‘ free ” education of
two children. All commodities were double Aus-
tralian prices in Dowie’s monopolistic stores, and
when they ran short (a frequent happening) Zion
had to do without. Also, the most conspicuous
feature of Zion habitations was the swarms of
small, smelly, brown insects which aren’t sup-
posed to haunt a place with a name like Zion.
* * * *
Brisbane Trafalgared greatly —hung out
flags, drank champagne, marched 500 cadets
around, scattered spread-eagle orations, and gene-
rally posed beside its'silted' river as a Son of the
Sea. The Y. M. C. A. , whose chest is like a balloon
since it got a windfall, including a pub., took
charge of the principal arrangements, and wakened
unpleasant memories by sending, on its own
account, a cable to the French President. It ban-
quetted the Naval Brigade and Consuls with tea
and things eatable, and handed round a pro-
gramme-card at the theatre-show, every second or
third line of which card was an ad. for some brand
of whisky, or gin, or schnapps, or beer. The
Boyal Yacht Club at night talked Empire at its
rooms, after drinking ale, cheered Trafalgar pic-
tures on a lantern-screen, and anthemed Edward
VII. Some people also hung out Chinese lanterns
at night. But the demand for an Australian fleet,
so that, at a push, we could go out and try to help
along another Trafalgar, was heard nowhere. The
crowd which talks most loudly about “Sons of
the Sea ” is generally the angriest when anyone
proposes that we also should go in for the Sons of
the Sea industry.
* * * *
“Nulla”: “I met ah, what’s-his-name,
Tozer on the other side and was greatly prejudiced
against this country,” said the
Englishman on the Coogee
tram. “ But I’d travelled a
bit, China, N. and S. America,
and had 10 years at the Gape,
so I thought I’d see for myself,
and, well, I want to live and
die here ! I can’t say more !
Look at that ! ” enthusiastically
at the surf breaking on Marou-
bra Point; “ why if this were
an Italian bay, they’d rave
about it! Yaas, I made money
at the Cape, but one doesn’t
live in Africa! Sorry we don’t
hit it about Cecil B bodes,
but you’ll admit that in one re-
spect he was ahead of some of
your public men. fie did believe in his country.
Yes this is God’s own country and I know
America well. But Tozer And I agreed.
Tozer -.
* * * *
The people of Melbourne have lately de-
veloped an eerie habit of leaving their heads
lying loose along railway lines. The first one dis-
covered was standing between the rails at the end
of Princes Bridge station, one Sunday morning.
There was nobody near it, and it was not until a
couple of policemen tramped over a mile along the
line that they came across the rest of the outfit.
An engine had cut the head off and it had bounced
up on to some of the underneath gear and been
carried into the station, to fall off when the brakes
were applied. The next day, the station-master
at North Williamstown walked along the line a
little way to glance at the points, and nearly fell
over another head that was looking at him between
the rails. In this case, the body was only 10ft.
away. The man was identified as a carriage-
builder, who, when leaving home the day before,
had complained of pain in the head. “If thy
head offend thee, cut it off and cast it away,” says
the Scripture—or something like that.
V « » •
The Law in Victoria seems not only to
sympathise with cruelty, but actually to encourage
it. The other day at South Melbourne lovely
woman was fined £5 for unmercifully castigating
a little boy of five years , a ward of State tem-
porarily in her charge. This baby, who had
committed the heinous offence of losing a three-
penny-bit while going a message, was said to be a
mass of bruises from ear down to ankle, having
been stripped naked, his hands tied, and beaten
with a stick. Fined £5 ! The same day, at the
City Court, a woman who, quite unprovoked,
kicked another so that she lay in a hospital bed
for five days, was fined a whole £2 ! But, to
balance this, the culprit in the next case, who had
stolen £6 worth of cutlery from a city hotel, was
given six months’ hard labor without the option.
And Bent still says that no country in the world
looks after its children better than Victoria.
• * * «
The late chief accountant of Vic. Railways
is being slowly proceeded against on a charge of
falsifying the books, which are undergoing a
special audit meanwhile. From time to time the
accused appears at the City Court, and is re-
manded on bail. The latest remand is for three
weeks, “ so as to clear the Melbourne Cup week.”
During Cup week nothing happens in Melbourne
that can possibly prove injurious to the great
national industry of Ikey Mo.
“Snell”: This
is another fellow’s
story. The name
is Bill, and he
was the male end
of a vagrant court-
ship in one of
the suburbs. The
girl’s parents had
objections, and
the love-making
was done on the
sands, or in parks
and gardens and
waste places. One
night the rain
caught Bill and
Rose. In such
circumstances it
is customary for
the young al
fresco lovers in
our suburb to
seek cover on the
verandahs of
empty houses,
and after a hur-
ried hunt Bill
and Rose took
refuge at a neat
villa and sat on
the gas box.
After a little
while the young
lady became ner-
vous under the
impression that
there was some-
body in the
house. William
also fancied he
heard move-
ments, but was
not disposed to
vacate his com-
fortable pitch,
and succeeded in
persuading Rose
that it was only
rats. In fact
when the noise
subsided into a
sort of clawing
sound on the
other side of the
wall, he was
satisfied himself
that it was rats,
and the love-
making flowed
on smoothly.
Next morning,
going through his Age, William read of a strange
suicide—a man had hanged himself from a
picture screw in the front room of an empty villa,
No. 72, Blank-street. Then Bill remembered that
he and Bose had been roosting on the gas box at
No. 72, Blank-street, at the time given as the
probable hour when the desolate stranger had sus-
pended operations, and he realised that the scrap-
ing sounds he and Bose had heard were theclawings
of the hanging man’s naked feet on the plastered
wall. “Some blokes ain’t got no decency—he
must ’a’ known we was there ! ” said Bill.
* * * •
The “correspondence school” humbug (it
isn’t humbug in so few cases that the exceptions
hardly count) appears to be exploiting medicine
now. The matter was explained the other day
by a litigious cuss, who claimed enormous
damages because, as he alleged, an acci-
dent on the railway had prevented him
making a huge income from his practice as an
optician. He signed himself “Brown, Bef. D.
Phil.,” and he explained that that meant “ Doctor
of Befraction, Philadelphia”; and you became a
“Bef. D. Phil.” by paying fees to a Yankee
“ correspondence school ” for three years and then
writing a thesis. How- many “Bef. D.
Phils.” there are monkeying with this
country’s delicate eyes on the strength of their
having paid a “ correspondence school ” a few
dollars nobody knows ; blit it ought to be some-
body’s business to find out. A country that looks
after the people who look after the other people’s
teeth has plenty of excuse for calling on the people
who meddle with other people’s eyes to justify
their sign-boards and brass-plates.
* « * *
Adelaide police celebrated Trafalgar Day
by raiding one of the most notorious shops in the
Sainted City. Sixty-one prisoners were taken,
and casualties amongst the punters amounted to
one case of severe fright that had to be taken to
Adelaide Hospital to get its breath. Windows
were smashed and furniture broken in the rush of
the gallant but modest defenders to evade pub-
licity, but few, it is alleged, got away from “ the
strong ar-rum.” Three men who hid in a cup-
board were overlooked, and after remaining
folded up for two hours, they managed to crawl
out undetected. A line of cabs was chartered by
the victorious police, and a miscellaneous collec-
tion of racecourse tout, parson’s son, Afghan
camel driver, respectable bank clerk, factory ’and,
gilded Gussie, and plain Bill was loaded into cabs
and carted to the police-station. Several highly
respectable suburban homes have been plunged
into grief as a side issue of the raid ; and there is
much wailing over the unmasking of young hope-
fuls who were supposed to be “ back at the-office ”
or indulging in healthful athletics.
VISIBLE MEANS OF SUPPORT.
THE OLD MAN : “ Upon what grounds do you
count to maintain my daughter ?”
IT: “ Upon your unwillingness to see her starve."
A Melbourne Age advt. (21/10/’l5) :
"yOUNG Lady, nice looking-, has tickets for Cup,
-*- wishing- an escort, a gentleman. By 24th.
F.J.A., Prahran P.O.
A young, nice girl and a free ticket for the Gup !
It only wants the promise of free drinks thrown in
to crowd the excursion trains.
* * * *
The persistent ex-constable Crowe, of Mel-
bourne, has issued another circular re the half-
hearted Commission of Inquiry into Victorian
Police scandals. Crowe makes one very direct
accusation: “I have also sent a charge to the
Commission of my night-watchman and myself
having discovered a gang of policemen and night-
watchmen robbing places I was paid to protect.
Though the Police Department was furnished with
information, and found stolen property in one
policeman’s house, no steps were taken to prose-
cute the constable, though one of their accomplices
received six years for his share of the crimes.”
* * * *
A Portland (Vic.) tradesman, turning out
an old store-room the other day, came upon a box
containing articles of clothing and letters and
documents dated ’5l and ’52. One paper showed
that Mary Campbell owned the box, and that she
was indentured as a domestic servant to a Mr.
Chaffey. None of the oldest inhabitants remember
Mary Campbell, nor can any reason be found why
she went away without her box. Possibly she
left early to avoid the rush of capital being driven
out of the country by Socialistic legislation.
* * *
“ Snell ” : Woman has still a lot to learn,
but she is coming on. At Caulfield on Cup day I
was much interested in a tall, handsome girl
charmingly dressed, and looking as sweet and
ingenuous as if just fresh from a nunnery. She
made a rush from the lawn immediately after
Marvel Loch’s number went up. Her face had
suddenly flushed, and there was fine frenzy in her
eye. She actually fought her way through the
c ents flocking about a big-nosed book who was
miserably paying it out, and thrust her ticket in
his hand, gasping: “He’s won! He’s won!”
The book looked at the pasteboard, and said :
“Yith, Mith, he’th won, but thith ithn’t my
ticket.” “Oh,” said the young lady, “does it
matter which?” “Matter vich?” cried Noses,
“Veil, I should thay it did. I’ve got throubles
enough of my own.” The pretty girl then went
to hunt down the right man.
HIS BUST.
The Bulletin
Admiral Togo has been presented by the British and
Foreign Sailors’ Society with a bust of Admiral Nelson,
carved in the Victory’s timbers.
Shadow of Nelson, O forsake
Thy body at St. Paul’s ;
To-day thy kith a mock’ry make
Of England’s wooden walls ;
And, lo ! to magnify the crime
They add thy hero-shape,
To be (base spirit of the time)
The play-thing of an ape.
Let now no Eng-lish grocer boast
That Nelson of the Nile
Doth lend his loyal sailor ghost
To watch o’er Britain’s Isle ;
For all that’s left is —— and enough—
Beneath the chapel stones,
The poor remains of mortal stuff ;
A few forsaken bones.
N.S.W*
HUGH McCRAE.


JBMES R. LSWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128=130 PITT STREET (near King Street , SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KING STREET,
The Most Comfortable anti Up-to-date in the City. Tatroas may clepsn ! upon thorough attrition
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street. *
A Good Thing for the
fgs
A Smart, Cheerful, Well-fitting Suit, by
"R* C. HAGON" out of “ Best Material/*
sure of a place in the Great Event*
Price, £4 4s.
dfg
*
Merchant
Tailor,
129 King St., Sydney.
The summit of absurdity in Trafalgar Day
celebrations was achieved by the naval officahs who
dined aboard Nelson’s flagship and drank in silence
“ To the memory of those who fell in 1805—friend
or foe ” When anybody has been dead 100 years
it is surely time to drop all pretence of solemnity
in referring to the event. Seeing that they
couldn’t possibly have lived until now even if they
hadn’t fallen, all the people who fell in Nelson’s
sea fights are as dead as Julius Caesar. Now, a
silent drink to the memory of Julius Caesar would
be treated as a joke.
IN THE CRICKET SEASON.
FATH ER: “ Tommy, will you have a little more?”
TOMMY: " No, thanks, father. I think I’ll de-
clare my innings closed."
In oratmg over the Trafalgar celebrations
m Melbourne, a suburban municipal councillor
referred to “the splendid victory of Nelson at
vyaterloo.” After that even the memorable occa-
sion when Hannibal pursued Columbus over the
plains of Gibraltar may take a back seat.
“ Melb.”: I came from England to Aus-
tralia .as a child. Not long ago there was a
gathering of people who came by the ship. It
was meant as an entertainment, hut was very
mournful. These colonists seemed to have kept
their eyes in the backs of their heads all the time.
Of course it was different with their children, but
the oldsters sighed as exiles from a place which
kicked them out. You will not get a more exalted
idea of the Pilgrim Fathers and Mothers from
acquaintance with them. .Pear Old England !
Dear old slavery days !
This shows what a grasping person the
working-man is, and how, by comparison, the
Fatman can’t help being benevolent. A while
ago the steamer Milton, bojund from the Cape to
Australia, broke down in mid-ocean, her shaft
snapped. Then—
The engineer, Thomas Halliday, went over the stern in
a sling, and no sooner was he on the boss of the propeller
than he was under water, immediately afterwards to be
sft. clear of it. Two or three times he was washed off,
but he saw his way to partially plugging the inlet, with
the result that one could just work in the inlet without
being drowned.
For 26 days after that the staff struggled away in
the place where they could “just work without
being drowned ”; then the engines were tried,
and the ship moved,' and 12 days after was
able to crawl into Mauritius. The people whose
property had been saved in this way offered the
staff £3OO and a gold watch for the chief engineer
—and they took it, though they had been getting
their wages and dog-biscuit all the time ! The
other case, which shows that humanity isn’t all
bad, however, happened in connection with the
Maorilander Waikato. She broke down, not
under quite such bad conditions; but, instead of
being patched up by the staff, another steamer
hove in sight, picked her up, towed her in—and
that steamer’s Fat owners claim and get £27,700
as salvage. If anybody wants to get a firm grip
of what is meant by “the romance of the sea”
(referred to 716 times in recent Trafalgar articles),
he can’t do better than read the reports of claims
for salvage made by one crowd of rich ship-owners
against another crowd of ship-owners. Dog eats
dog all right when they’re both sea-dogs.
* * * *
From the “Woman’s Page” of S.M.
Herald (25/10/’O5)
Some folks are like Katisha, and find tame animals very
tame. They do love wild ones. A young girl living not
far out of Sydney has a lion for a pet. She keeps it in a
paddock.
Where is that devouring monster ?
* * * *
Bent says Victoria makes better provision
for child life than any other country known. It
does, it does —and this is how. A young married
wonian camped in a paddock, near Wangaratta
(Vic.), for three weeks without anybody troubling
to inquire the why and wherefore, or”the all-im-
portant how. But one morning a casual passer-by
noticed her lying on the ground in a comatose
condition, while a newly-born infant grazed
placidly some distance away. They were then
taken to the hospital, and, at latest, were not yet
dead ; but that wasn’t the fault of the ruminative
farmers who pervade those parts.
* * * *
At a Melbourne suburban police court
the other day a large, florid, dishevelled prisoner
was presented on several charges, including
drunkenness, indecorous behavior, and
biting policemen. He had the fragrance
and influence of the beer still upon
him ; there was a dazzled look in
his eye, and he smiled starkly
into the dim distance. When
evidence had been taken, and
just as the chairman was gathering
himself for a moral blast directed
against the sin of beer and the
iniquity of eating
policeman, the pris-
oner suddenly put
out his chest,
piled on all his
dignity, and
addressed the
bench : “Your
conduct has
been shameful
—most shame-
ful. Society
must be pro-
tected against
the likes of
you. Four
months and
two floggings.”
The prisoner
pointed to his
worship and
sternly or-
dered the
police to
“take the
fellow
away,” and
was him-
self walk-
ing magnifi-
cently out of
the court, when
the bench awak-
ened and commanded
the stunned policeman
to drag him back. Possibly
that man was a J.P. who had gone to the
bad, and the good old times came back to him in a
dream when he saw the old familiar court and
the cop’s well-remembered helmet.
* * * *
Professor Scherer in his. book, “Young
Japan”:—
The two cancers at the core of the Japanese character
are deep-set dishonesty and abandoned impurity ; eitl er
would be sufficient to wreck the life of any nation.
Japan’s is the only civilised Government that deals in
licensed prostitution as a source of revenue, and tolerates
the sale of young gips by their parents under guise of a
regard for “filial piety.” Japan is still a country where
the term “lie ” is not a term of reproach, but rather im-
plies a jocular compliment. Duplicity is masked by the
“Japanese smile”,; nauseating conceit mars popular
manners.
SOW TO REAP.
DOUBTFUL BUYER : “ Yes, but if
this stuff does all you say it does , you could get £1 for it."
BARBER: “ Yes, sir; but we makes our profit cuttin' your hair twice a day after you've used it."
The proposed regulations for the control
of Sydney child street-hawkers were badly needed.
Intention is to issue a license (with a metal badge,
to be worn on the arm) to every juvenile match,
flower and newspaper vendor, street singer or
other alleged musical performer, shoeblack, and
every other youthful wage-earner in public places.
Boys of from 10 to 14 may work from 7 a.m.
till 7 p.m. ; those over 14 may carry on till 10 p.m.,
lint those liable to attend school will be de-
barred from trading at all during school hours. A
card, let into the official badge, carrying the
bearer’s signature, age, number, occupation, and
the date of the license’s expiry, will give even the
casual policeman effective control of the youthful
licensees.
* * * *
The other night, when George Reid was
lecturing to a society of Sydney University
women, this mouse of thought fell dead on the
floor, overpowered by its own brilliancy :
The mind is a power in triplicate—thought, emotion,
will. It was sometimes said there was another power of
the mind, called conscience, but really that was not so.
It was a very amiable view to take, but conscience was
simply the operation of the three powers already referred
to. . . . Few thought of acquiring intellectual powers for
the purpose of developing the immortal principle that
was within them. It would be a grand time for the
world when parents not only put their children to trades,
but opened an avenue for the development of their
immortal intellects.
And many fair listeners were straining their corsets
in the effort to balance on the tight-rope of meta-
physics and guess what George was driving at.
* * « *
Timaru (M.L.) Charitable Aid Board grew
angry the other day. It has been supporting an
old man and his family for quite a long time ; fie
is unable to work and is subject to fits. Yet his wife
goes on adding to the population every year ; the
family is now a large one, and the Board has to
give an extra ration regularly. When the latest
unit came along, the Board made some scathing
remarks, but nothing was done. What could be
done, anyway ? However, it was vaguely under-
stood that one of them was going to tell the old
person privately that he mustn’t do such things
as the community couldn’t afford it, or words to
that effect.
* • * *
Another leper was unearthed, the other
day, in Palmerston (N.T.). It would be interest-
ing to know the number of lepers there are in the
north. Paddy Cahill, the famous buffalo shooter,
recently offered to bring in a mob from the Alligator
River at £1 per head. Two lepers in a month
is a fair average in a small population.
Britain’s idea of suitable emigrants for
Australia : —(1) Convicts of assorted sexes. (2)
Mrs. Pry’s pets, largely female gaol-birds. (3)
“Red Rovers”—females, said to be the street
sweepings of large English cities, many of whom,
however, made excellent wives and mothers, while
some founded “first families.” (4) “Penton-
villians ” —young men and youths from Penton-
ville prison, sent chiefly to Victoria. (5) Booth’s
wasters—origin and condition to be inquired into
before landing.
* * » *
“ Hiphen ” writes :
A word on English as she is speaked. Some time ago a
girl said to me : “ I know he’s English. They do speak
so naicelv.” Well, I’ve been there since.
I landed. A man said, “ Kirry yir liggidge, surr ? ”
I touched the fringe of society, and heard : “ Yaas, it
was ah dewy splendid day. Ay thought ay told yah.”
I fled north—to Yorkshire. “ Koom oop, laad, we’m
gooin’ ta show ’ee ta toon ” is what I had to struggle
with.
And so on through Scotland, Ireland, and Wales.
Practically every county in the northern Flyspeek has a
language of its own—it cannot be called a dialect. And
yet they have the impertinence to say Australians speak
badly and with a twang.
If you go from Cape York to the Leeuwin you will hear
one language spoken by white men, but from John o’
Groats to Land’s End you’d need several interpreters.
* * * *
“Elam” : Saw a Melbourne police con-
stable in sad circumstances the other night. He
was removing to the watch-house two soiled
doves, who. after much gin-and-bitters. had wan-
dered into a portion of the city where custom does
not sanction their presence. Crossing Collins-
street. one of them suddenly threw herself on the
tram-line, with loud lamentations. An advancing
gripman rang his bell violently, but had to pull
up. It took gripman, conductor, policeman and
cabby to lift the wailing lady into the four-
wheeler, and meanwhile her comrade clung to the
stanchion of the tram and expounded her estimate
of society to the women on the dummy. A con-
stable who assisted in the suppression of the Fitz-
roy Porties—it was done without the assistance of
the Courts, and by means of batons and short
lengths of stout garden hose—once told me that he
would rather do it all over again than arrest one
woman.
GIVE US A BEST!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After several all-night sittings on the Liquor Bill last
week, N.S.W. Assembly, at 4 a.m. on Thursday morning-,
came to some kind of a decision, which this writer has
been unable to sort out, even after receiving ten con-
flicting exp* illations.
There’s the person of possible piety
Dsing his best;
Plenty of zest 1
There’s the lord of the Liquor Society
Raising his crest;
Swelling his chest!
But as one of the general crowd,
Who are neither important nor proud,
For the sake of a little variety
I would suggest
Having a rest!
Just as one of the general crowd,
I would ask, if I’m kindly allowed,
For the sake of a little variety—
GIVE US A REST !
I’ve a humble regard for propriety
Properly dressed ;
Chain on its vest !
And the greatest respect for sobriety
Filleth my breast !
(’Tisn’t a jest 1)
I have read all the publicans say
(It makes seventeen columns a day)
Till I suffered from weary satiety
Over the quest—
Even the best !
Which is why I am rising to say
In a diffident kind of a way
(I don’t speak from mere contrariety) :
GIVE US A REST 1
Now, a man in a state of dubiety,
Which is the best;
If there’s a test
Very certainly ought to apply it 1 He
Needn’t molest
Those who invest
In a trade that he may not admire
To dispense what he doesn’t desire—
For, unless he can learn to keep quiet he
May be a pest—
Terrible pest!
So, as one of the general crowd,
I would ask, if I’m kindly allowed :
If it’s merely by way of variety,
GIVE US A REST !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


The Wild Cat Column.
In Melbourne, the other day, the executive
committee of the Municipal Association wailed piteously
to the members because “ they had in 10 years paid over
£lO,OOO to guarantee companies, and had received back
only £1621.” And even then, when they'saw the profit
there was in the business, the association either hadn’t
the nous or the pluck to suggest undertaking its own
insurance.
• » * *
The Maoriland Public Trust Office, which
looks after the State’s sinking fund, the Police Provident
Fund, the Coal Miners’ Relief Fund, and other public
trust accounts, and also acts as trustee for private
estates :
Paid in aid
Profit. of State’s - Total
Revenue. Reserves.
1901 .... £22,915
1902 .. .. £10,955 33,870
1903 .. .. 7,363 41,233
1904 .. .. 10,085 51,318
1905 .. .. 14,491 £20,000 45,809
So the State draw's a dividend, and, instead of being
added to sinking fund for the reduction of the public
debt, the amount goes into consolidated revenue ; and
this paper hopes Treasurer Seddon will feel as comfort-
able as the circumstance calls for when he handles the
money. The accounts are this year not accompanied by'
the usual report, and it is impossible to say by how' much
the total value of estates in hand has expanded during
the year. But securities and cash have steadily increased ;
so has the balance to the credit of private estates, put
into the hands of the Trustee under will. These are recent
figures of total trust funds, and as far as possible the
securities in private trust estates (included in the
total): —
; Under Private Total
Trusts. Trust Funds.
1899 .. .. .. £956,153
1900 .. .. .. 1,056,86 S
1901 .. .. £758,323 .. 1,672,304
1902 .. .. 807,624 .. 1,782,951
1903 .. .. 876,049 .. 1,936,073
1904 .. .. 976,768 .. 1,660,716
1905 .. .. 1,098,899 .. 1,896,224
This, of course, refers only to the realised portions of
trust estates ; the values of private estates w'hich have
not been realised and invested are, generally', about 50
per cent, of these amounts. In addition, the office, as a
matter of course, takes charge of intestate estates (value of
Public Trustee’s investments under this head is £100,956),
and of lunatics’ estates (£55,423), and convicts’ estates,
w'hich don’t amount to much, gaols not being in general
for those who have much in the w’ay' of estates. The
number of wills and private trusts in hand increased from
493 in 189 S to 836 in 1904 ; of intestate estates from 797 to
1062. Of the total funds at the end of the past financial
y'ear (£1,896,224), £1,813,709 W'as invested, the balance
w 7 as cash ; and of the investments £1,632,895, or 90 p.c.,
was out on mortgage. Thereportbeing silenton thesubject
of total value of trust estates, the management expenses
p.c. cannot be worked out. For 1904 the expenses ran to
11s. 4d. p.c. of the total value. This, compared with the
rates shown by private trustee co.’s, is high ; but the
public trustee does an immense amount of extremely
difficult work in administering native reserves. The
total income from charges and commissions on wills,
private trusts, and sinking-fund accounts works out at
ss. 11s. per cent., which is well within the rates of
private offices. ,
One item in the accounts of the Maoriland pub-
lic trust office seems liable to be misunderstood unless
some more explanation is offered than the accounts fur-
nish. Of the £32,385 income received last y'ear, £17,797
was “ interest in excess of amounts credited to estates ” ;
from which it might be assumed that, in addition to the
usual commissions and charges, the office invests its
clients’ money at 44 per cent, and hangs on to 4 per cent,
or so for itself. The explanation is that, when the invest-
ment is left to the discretion of the Public Trustee, a
common rate of interest is fixed from time to time by the
Executive, and not only is that rate of interest guaran-
teed, but the estate is guaranteed against loss on the
investment. The “ interest in excess ” is the amount in
excess of the guaranteed rate, and is a very small return
for the State guarantee against loss of principal and
interest. The reserves shown above include £15,414 ap-
propriated to cover possible future losses under this head,
and it doesn’t seem nearly large enough for the work that
it may yet be called upon to do.
-* * * *
After giving the other fire insurance offices
nearly' a year to think Over their refusal to accept re-
insurance from the Maoriland State Office, the latter has
sent its manager to Europe to fix up permanent re-insur-
ance arrangements. When the offices doing business in
M.L. played what they reckoned was their trump card,
and refused anything in the way of a treaty with the new
competitor, and tried to force it to take all its
own risks, the M.L. State Department went to Eng-
lish Lloy'd’s underwriters. In the hope that the other
offices would think better of their boycott, the treaty
was made for only' a year ; but as the other offices
have decided to go on in their foolishness, it has been
decided to- make permanent arrangements abroad.
Whereupon, of course, the baffled insuring crowd shrieks
at the State office, and tells the public that it is mostly' a
mere agency for passing- insurance on to foreign insurers.
Well, whose fault is that? The State office isn’t greedy ;
it is willing to share business with private offices ; and if
private offices won’t, it’s their funeral if the business is
handed over to the outsider. At the same time,
seeing that the State Fire Office has at its back the whole
revenue and assets and taxable power of the State, it is a
pity it didn’t make a perfectly new departure, and keep
ail its risks even if it insured the whole State.
Practically, its capital is about equal to that of all the
fire insurance companies on earth combined, and it
could have taken the chance, and made money by it,
and kept the business and profits in the country.
The United Insurance Co., Fire and Marine
(Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1895 .. £9,352 12^-p.c. =£8528 £824 £85,715
1896 .. 10,466 124 „ ~ 8528 1,938 87,653
1897 .. 9,951 124 „ ~ 852 S 1,423 89,076
1898 .. 3,722 124 », SS2S 84,270
1899 . . 7,302 5 „ ~ 3411 3,891 83,161
1900 .. 10,267 10 „ „ 6823 3,444 91,605
1901 .. 13,809 10 „ ~ 6823 £SS6O 90,031
1902 .. 23,102 10 „ ~ 6823 16,279 106,310
1903 .. 21,686 124 „ „ 8528 212 12,946 119,256
1904 .. 21,376 124 .. .. 5528 385 12,453 131,739
1905 .. 21,603 124 „ ~ 9673 4712 7,218 133,957
The writings-off consist of £2996 spent in altering premises
and £1716 devoted to writing down investments. The
reserves consist of formal reserve £77,080, reinsurance
£30,000, equalisation of dividend £lO,OOO, investment
depreciation £8284, and undivided profit £13,593. In
addition there is provision for unadjusted losses £6OOO,
though the directors say' the claims outstanding do not
exceed £l5OO. Compared with some predecessors, the
year’s experience is further shown hereunder :
1895. 1903. 1904. 1905.
Net premiums £58,499 £83,122 £84,468 £88,609
Rent and interest 4,606 5,171 5,952 6,496
Fire losses .. 17,295 21,081 22,265 29,244
Marine losses .. 15,560 12,410 11,387 13,006
Commissions, etc 14,438 24,099 25,254 .26,483
Other expenses . 5,143 8,016 10,139 9,349
Loss rate, p.c. .. . 56j 40J ... 40 47§
Expense rate, p.c. 33|- 38| 42 40|
Though fire and marine losses are shown separately', the
same" plan is not adopted with regard to premiums.
Apparently, however, extra losses in the fire department
have been mainly responsible for the jump in the general
loss rate. For several years Australian insurance co. ’s had
a run of remarkably good luck on the whole; but very few
of them show the same for the past 12 months. The expense
rate, though still high, shows a slight reduction, both
absolutely and in proportion to net premiums. Capital
has been increased during the year from £68,226 to
£79,677 ; and, with calls since due, the whole 34,161 issued
shares will be paid to £2 10s. They still carry a £7 10s.
liability. On the mean amount of paid capital during the
y'ear, together with reserves, the profits show 104 per
cent. ; net profits, after the writings-off, are £8 4s. 3d. per
cent.—and there isn’t much to complain of in that. The
co.’s excellent position and its fine progress are mainly
due to the fact that, in the extra-good years, it didn’t pay
meteoric dividends, but added the extra profits to
reserves, and so gave people who want insurance extra
security for their money'. As to investments (apart from
the working balances) the co.’s earnings amount to just
34 per cent.; this is lower than it ought to be, but that is
probably due mostly to a poor return on freeholds
(£56,000), and that again may possibly be due to the co.
crediting its properties with little or nothing for office
rent. But passing over that item as to which there is
some doubt, the investments (60 per cent, of them public
stocks and deposits) are a very solid lot; and their
solidity has been added to during the year by large pur-
chases of N.S.W. and M.L. Government stock, while mort-
gages and miscellaneous debentures have been reduced.
* * * *
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers (Sydney):—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., 1899 .. £35,706 7 p.c.= £31,500 £4,206 £104,365
Mar., 1900.. 37,979 7 „ „ 31,500 6,479 110,844
Sept., 1900.. 36,451 7 ~ „ 31,500 4,951 115,795
Mar., 1901 .. 39,898 7 ~ ~ 31,500 8,398 124,193
Sept., 1901.. 37,269 7 „ „ 31,500 5,769 129,962
Mar., 1902 .. 41,536 8 „ „ 36,000 5,536 135,498
Sept., 1902.. 40.768 8 „ „ 36,000 4,768 140,266
Mar., 1903 .. 41,209 8 „ ~ 36,000 5,209 145,475
Sept., 1903.. 39,053 8 „ „ 36,000 3,053 148,528
Mar., 1904.. 43,414 8 „ „ 36,000 7,414 155,942
Sept., 1904.. 37,570 8 „ ~ 36,000 1,570 157,512
Mar., 1905 .. 46,964 8 „ „ 36,000 10,964 165,476
Sept., 1905.. 37,394 8 ~ „ 36,000 1,394 169,870
This is the smallest amount added to reserves for a good
many years past, and, after the excellent showing of the
previous half-year, it is disappointing. Compared with
the corresponding slack half of recent years the income
is satisfactory, but, apparently owing to keener compe-
tition, the expenses have sprung up, as the following
shows :
1900. 1904. 1905.
Debts to public £10,938 £30,845 £12,377
Properties, goodwill, plant .. 671,662 630,238 643,221
Public stock and deposits .. 99,349 135,864 1.36,282
Cash balances .. .. .. 28,104 19,535 17,031
Stock 51,582 94,393 73,782
Sundry debtors .. .. .. 210,037 249,326 252,931
Profits on brewings, rents, &c. 113,562 110,945 117,502
Management, wages, &c. .. 74,611 68,375 75,108
The profits are stated after making an allowance (of un-
known size) for bad debts and depreciation ; this writing-
off for depreciation, whatever it amounts to, is in addition
to the £5OOO formally written off every half-year for wear
and tear of plant. The most solid-looking improvement
in the accounts is the growth of public stock and de-
posits ; the least satisfactory is the rapid growth of
sundry debtors. Whether this amount is running up
because not very much is being written off for bad debts,
or partly on that account, it is impossible to say ; but it
isn’t a good feature anyhow, especially as the turnover
isn’t increasing to the same extent. But, taking the dis-
closed profits as giving a fair idea of the business, Tooth’s,
Ltd., is a highly profitable concern, trading absolutely on
its own capital, and showing on shareholders’ funds a
return of so near to 8 p.c. for the past year that the
difference doesn’t matter.
* * * #
The Castlemaine Brewery and Wood
Brothers and Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.): —
Written To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profits. Dividends. - Off. serves. Reserves
1900.. £41,890
1901.. £13,093 4 p.c. =£lo,ooo £3OOO £93 41,983
1902.. 13,185 4 „ „ 10,000 3000 185 42,168
1903.. 13,080 4 „ „ 10,000 3000 SO 42,248
1904.. 13,022 4 „ „ 10,000 3000 22 42,270
1905.. 13,000’4 „ „ 10,000 3000 42,270
Somebody will really be suspecting presently that this
co.’s published accounts are not worth much. It writes
off £3OOO as a regular thing, and pays £lO,OOO in divs. as a
regular thing, and has just enough to do it with. From
these figures it might be supposed that Newcastle’s thirst
has a beautifully even surface that you might play bowls
on ; but, after all, it doesn’t appear to be that. A com-
parison of other items (so far as a co. which has the
lumping disease badly itemises anything) may throw
some light on the situation :
1901. 1904. 1905.
Liabilities to public .. .. £68,307 £61,568 £68,892
Properties, goodwill, plant, &c. 215,922 219,155 228,247
Hotels (special account) .. 41,848 45,810 54,731
Sundry debtors .. .. .. 77,348 65,979 55,929
Bills, cash 6,826 7,146 7,128
Stock .. 26,346 23,747 23,127
Receipts .. 61,716 55,778 50,550
Expenses (including provision
for bad debts) .. .. .. 48,623 42,756 37,549
In spite of the fact that the lumped expenses and charges
have been much reduced, it looks highly probable that
considerable amounts have been written off for bad debts;
at any rate, the reduction of “sundry debtors” item
is striking. Probably it is through this item that the
remarkable uniformity of the published results is
achieved. Anyhow, note this, which ought to be a good
sig’n if the properties have been reasonably well bought:
while liabilities to the public are practically the same as
they were in 1901, properties, plant, hotels, and goodwill
(the last a shocking- item, at which even a brewery
director ought to blush every time he sees it stuffed in
among the substantial assets) have increased by £25,208,
a little by reducing stocks, but nearly all by reducing
“ sundry debtors,” This money may have been got in
in the ordinary course of business, but it also may
largely have been written off out of current profits. In
any case, the movement is highly satisfactory. An
unfavorable feature, on the other hand, is the reduction
in income. But as to that it has to be remembered that
brewery co.’s have a habit of showing some things net one
year and gross the next, so this comparison isn’t worth
as much as a comparison of balance-sheet figures ought
to be.
* * * *
Harrison, Jones, and Devlin, Ltd., wool-
brokers, &c., of Sydney :
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1895 . .£22,957 7 p.c. =£7ooo £9,513 £6444 £13,387
1896 .. 13,629 8 „ „ 8000 5,000 629 14,016
1897 .. 18,176 8 „ -8000 5,000 5176 19,192
1898 .. 13,120 8 „ ~ 8000 2,500 2620 21,812
1899 .. 14,424 8 „ „ 8000 4,000 2424 24,236
1900.. 12,741 8 „ „ 8000 2,000 2741 26,977
1901 .. 6,120 7 ~ ~ 7000 10,000 16,097
1902.. 11,192 7 ~ ~ 7000 2,500 1692 17,789
1903 .. 9,014 7 „ „ 7000 2,000 14 17,803
1904.. 8,845 7 ~ „ 7000 2,000 17,648
1905.. 11,778 7 „ „ 7000 4778 22,426
Hitherto the accounts have contained a goodwill item of
£40,000. In the foregoing table this paper asset has been
disregarded ; and the co. now takes the same view', and
wipes it out. The Bulletin’s table of figures and the
balance-sheet therefore correspond for the first time.
Ten years’ progress in some other respects is shown
hereunder: —
1895. 1900. 1904. 1905.
Debt on mortgage .. £97,000 £78,000 £70,000 £60,000
Other debts .. .. 77,383 115,605 67,006 73,673
Freeholds (cost) .. 179,514 179,514 179,514 179,514
Total written off Free-
holds 9,514 28,014 34,514 34,514
Advances, &c. .. 121,770 173,082 113,153 114,599
Thus in 10 years the co. has written £25,000 off its pre-
mises and added £9039 to its reserves, and this amount,
which had previously to be borrowed for the purpose, has
been available for advances. The year’s profits work out
at an almost exact 10 per cent, on shareholders’ total
funds (capital, £lOO,OOO, and reserves).
* * * *
The Newcastle Building and Investment Co.
(Newcastle, N.S.W.), which in 1896 took over the New-
castle Permanent Investment and Building Society’s
rocky business, and transferred a large amount of capital to
contingency account (included as a reserve in the table
following), to provide for possible losses in realisation •
Written Off
(including
Losses on To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Realisation), serves, serves.
1898 .. £52,203
1899 .. £4911 4 p.c. =£3356 £390 £1165 51,368
1900.. 5322 5 „ „ 4195 2256 52,239
1901 .. 5159 6 ~ „ 5033 -1900 5),465
1902.. 6084 6 ~ ~ 5033 424 627 51,092
1903 .. 5738 6 „ „ 5033 226 477 51,569
1904.. 5765 6 „ „ 5033 209 523 52,092
1905 .. 5250 6 ~ „ 5033 90 127 52,219
And these figures show the book value of properties still
in possession at August 31st of each year :
1899 .. £108,576 1903 .. £73,941
1900 .. 101,243 1904 .. 71,737
1901 .. 83,756 1905 .. 70,084
1902 .. 78,177
Properties with a book value of £38,492 have apparently
produced £33,387. As these properties have been got rid
of, others have been secured, and the rents from the
entire holding are bunched together ; therefore it is not
possible to form any sort of idea as to whether the most
or the least profitable of the properties have been disposed
of. If it has been a fair average, then the cleaning-up
has been a much less disastrous process than was ex-
pected judging from the size of the contingency account.
This seems satisfactory, anyhow—in 1899 the properties
brought in £3 3s. 6d. percent, on their book value , in
the past year properties (reckoning in the new purchases)
brought in £4 7s. per cent., clear of rates and expense, so
far as can be traced. It isn’t high enough to suggest that
there will be no further losses ; but, as the properties
probably include some unproductive vacant land, it isn t
low enough to suggest that anything serious in the way
of loss or writing-down is ahead.
* * * *
The Colonial Permanent Building and In-
vestment Society (Melbourne): —
Written Off and
Sept., Losses. Losses on Sales. Reserves.
1895 ..£l5Ol ... •• r f 9 ’ S4^
Deficit.
1896 .. 823 .. £9495 .. 477
1897 ..920 .. •• h’”'
1898 .. 284 .. 9827 .. U. 508
1899 ..559 .. •• 12,067
1900 .. 548 .. • • 12.615
1901 .. 549 .. 1005 .. 14,169
1902 .. 310 .. 1244 .. 15,723
1903 .. 62 .. 3668 .. 19,453
1904 .. 159 .. 55 .. 19,667
1905 .. 97 .. 4079 .. 23,843
The capital was £48,000, so that nominally £24,157 is
intact. But there still remain £52,179 of properties
(book value, less £lOO5 written off from old reserve fund),
and as a loss of £4079 has been made during the year in
realising £12,537 of properties, the amount of capital
that is like!}' to prove really intact needn’t be mentioned.
The recent progress of realisation is shown hereunder ;
Advances and Owing to Paid off
Properties. Public. During Year.
1900 .. £84,559 £52,796 £2153
1901 .. 81,706 51,670 1126
1902 .. 76,728 48,065 3605
1903 .. 72,201 46,920 1145
1904 .. 70,072 44,937 1983
1905 .. 62,291 40,269 4668
Though, as previously mentioned, properties in possession
have been reduced ‘by £12,537, realising £8458, nearly
£5OOO is represented by deferred payments. In five years,
while assets (book value) have been reduced by £22,268,
liabilities have been reduced by only £12,527 ; and at that
rate, the remaining assets would wipe out only £35,000 of
the debt. Still, the experience of the past couple of
years has been rather better, so something a trifle more
cheerful than that may be hoped for. The fading
concern continues to be economically managed.
* * •* *
The County of Bourke Permanent Building
and Investment Society (Melbourne); from the year
when £66,812 capital was written off, of which £2249 was
added to reserves, the balance being used to cover losses :
Busi- Net
ness Profit on Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1898.. ' £9,660
1899.. £4,888 £1746 6p.c.=£5889 £745 10,405
1900.. 6,010 1561 6 „ „ 5889 1682 12,087
1901.. 7,363 2869 6 „ „ 5888 4344 16,431
1902.. 8,338 3913 7£ „ „ 7361 4890 21,321
1903.. 8,844 2632 7*,, „ 7361 4115 25,436
1904.. 10,753 1563 7f ~ ~ 7314 5002 30,438
1905.. 9,408 1500 8§ „ „ 8633 2375 32,813
This society is extending its business steadily ; in fact, it
has increased its advances so much during the past year
that, as it is apparently' not seeking new deposits, it has
had to go to the bank for an overdraft of £5314, whereas
12 months before it had a credit balance of £1604. The
properties in possession are now valued at £42,841 ; 12
months ago the item stood at £45,864 ; and if the profit
of £l5OO has been made on the properties sold (£3021),
then the writing down in 1898 was very severe indeed.
Possibly, however, some new properties have fallen into
possession during the year, though the item doesn’t con-
vey that impression. In any case, the position as the pub-
lished accounts show it is exceptionally good ; for after
paying for repairs, rates, and insurances, the properties
in possession give a return of £6 16s. 6d. per cent. Apart
from properties in possession, the society’s almost only
asset is “ advances, £109,787 ” ; this is £15,136 more than
it was a year ago, and £69,268 more than it was in Sept.,
1899, just after the cleaning up. Meantime net liabilities
to the public (after allowing for current dividends) have
increased onlv from £6622 to £24,680. Thus the new
advances of £69,268 since 1899 have been made up as
follows :—£18,058 from new deposits, overdraft, &c. ;
£29,842 from sale of properties (book value) ; and the
balance (£21,368) from profits. Whether, however, much
of it can really be called profit, seeing that it is merely
the surplus over and above the value to which the assets
were written down when nearly half the capital went
overboard, is another matter. But it was something
emphatic in the way of a cleaning up, anyhow.
* » » * *
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre 00. of Austral-
asia (Melbourne) :
Dividends. Nomi-
Pref. Def. Ord. Total Written nal Re-
Profit. ' p.c. p.c. p.c. Div. off. serves.
1900 .. £18,554 7 7£ 6 £11,300 £5518 £1741
1901 .. 14,583 7 74- 4£ 10,250 2995 3079
1902 .. 10,414 7 -7| 1 7,800 1873 3820
1903 .. 17,304 7 74 Nil 7,100 7860 6164
1904 .. 21,770 - 7 74 5 10,600 8661 8673
1905 .. 17,578 - 7 7f 5 13,200 3712 9339
During the year this co. has increased its capital from
£170,000 to £250,000 by the issue of 60,000 more cumula-
tive preference shares (making 140,000) and 20,000 more
ordinary shares (making 90,000); in addition there are
20,000 pref. shares, but without the extra blessing of
having a cumulative preference. Besides all this
heavy weight of capital, an undisclosed but tre-
mendous amount of which is represented by nothing more
solid than goodwill, the co. has now a special overdraft
from one bank of £30,000 secured by debentures covering
the co.’s assets, and another ordinary overdraft from the
same bank of £351, and a third overdraft from another
bank of £24,438. In 1903 the total debts to the public
(including overdrafts) were £34,700 ; in 1904, £39,836 ;
now, in spite of issue of another £BO,OOO of capital, the
liabilities stand at £89,772. Something like £16,000 more
has just gone into “goodwill, trade marks, patent rights,”
&c. —paper items which ought to be got rid of as soon as
possible ; and, as they stand at £137,524, they will take a
lot of getting rid of; yet not a penny is written off them this
year. Another £66,967 has gone into stocks on hand (valua-
tion), bringing them to £117,710 ; the balance of the money
which has been raised during the year has gone into
plant or is represented by “ sundry debtors, £37,120.”
The co. has been developing a business in general rubber
goods ; it lately absorbed one of the oldest of Victorian
rubber-goods businesses, the Pioneer, and no doubt this
accounts for the big changes in the figures. As a power-
ful, vigorous concern which is doing much for an Aus-
tralian industry the Dunlop Co. deserves specially well of
Australia; the" misfortune is that it is so top-heavy with
capital, represented mostly by “rights,” which really
amount to so much foreign debt. For the goodwill
alone Richard Garland, the energetic managing director
of the Canadian Co. which secured all “colonial” rights
from the English Dunlop Co., got £125,000 from the Aus-
tralian Co. (£45,000 in cash and the rest, in shares); and
that is a huge bundle for any industry to struggle under.
* * * •*
The Tasmanian Loan, Guarantee, and Fi-
nance Co. (Hobart): —
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Sept., 1899 .. £349 4 per cent. =£3ls £34 £2833
Mar., 1900 .. 351 4 „ „ 315 36 2669
Sept., 1900 .. 344 4 „ ~ 315 29 2698
Mar., 1901 .. 376 5 ~ „ 394 2680
Sept., 1901 .. 400 5 „ „ 394 6 2686
Mar., 1902 .. 419 5 „ „ 394 25 2711
Sept., 1902 .. 398 5 „ „ 394 4 2715
Mar., 1903 .. {written off’ £872” 1873
Sept., 1903.. 490 5 „ ~394 96 1969
Mar., 1904 .. 530 5 „ „ 397 133 2102
Sept., 1904 .. 541 5 „ ~ 399 142 2244
Mar., 1905 .. 529 5 „ „ 399 130 2374
Sept.. 1905 .. 557. 5 „ „ 399 158 2532
Of the reserves £l4OO is depreciation account; but there
are no means of telling whether this is for depreciation
which has occurred, or whether it is provision for what
may occur in the future. The whole assets are lumped
as “loans on mortgage and other securities and other
amounts due, £27,583.” Deposits total £9440, against
£8027 six months ago, when there was also an overdraft
of £2315, now wiped off. There is no material on which
to arrive at much of an idea as to the co.’s position ; but
apparently, if the deposits carry 4 percent., the gross
earnings of all assets average just about 6 per cent., so
they are probably a sound lot, and not much overvalued.
The Heddon-Greta Coal Co. (N.S.W.)
Deficit
Total (Apart
Charged from
Coal Land to Develop- Develop-
Sales. Sales. ment. ment).
Mar., 1902 .. £504 £1,798 £1,951
Sept., 1902 .. 2,983 £668 4,888 1,241
Mar., 1903 .. 4,290 1,685 5,692 521
Sept., 1903 .. 8,599 94 7,573 380
Mar., 1904 .. 9,927 209 9,881 1,520
Sept., 1904 .. 11,898 278 11,017 2,054
Mar., 1905 .. 11,986 12,450 2,054
Sept., 1905 .. 6,956 13,961 3,406
Apart from money spent on development, which may or
may not prove a good asset, the deficit has been increased
bv £1352, which is the loss on the half-year's operations.
Latter have been seriously interfered with by the fire which
broke out in the mine last February ; but the sealed-
off portions are being re-opened. The manager reports
that development is complete, and no further expendi-
ture on that account is required. Besides its share-
holders’capital (£42,573), the co. carries £14,500 of de-
bentures, and its excess of other liabilities (including
overdraft) over liquid assets is £5621.
The Wickham and Bullock Island Coal Co.
(Newcastle, N.S.W.): —
Profits. Dividends. Deficit.
Mar., 1901 {gf 7, } St J^
sept,™,.. 6511 {g* f ■■ ;; S}
Loss.
Mar., 1902 .. 1661 Nil 225
Sept., 1902 .. 25 Nil
Mar., 1903 .. 525 Nil 325
Sept., 1903 .. 1163 Nil 1488
Mar., 1904 .. 1214 Nil 2702
Profit.
Sept., 1904 .. 353 Nil 2349
Mar., 1905 .. 105 Nil 2244
Sept., 1905 .. 68 {Written off,‘£lBs6 } 4032
This writing-off is for depreciation of plant, leases, free-
holds, and royalties. The sole revenue has been from hire
of waggons, £1227 ; the expenses include £354 spent on
the new leases at Cessnook, Maitland district. The co. s
liabilities consist (September 30) of loan, £l5OO, and
balance of Cessnook purchase money, £6OOO. The
assets include “ mine account, £88,435,” plant and
machinery £18,547; cash, &c. £783. Apparently the
£88,435 is made up of £Bl,OOO for the old worked-out and
practically abandoned mine and £7,435 for the new
property. There is a touch of humor about this £Bl,OOO
for what is admittedly a mine no longer ; £7435 for what
the directors say they are going to make a heap of money
out of. “ The directors consider it unnecessary to write
down mine account, the value of which is an unknown
quantity.” In the circumstances £88,435 are probably as
good figures to use as any others. Ali -that is to be hoped
is that there are not any foolish people left who think
that “ £88,435 ”in a balance-sheet means £88,435. Under
the new system it may mean x.
*■* * *
Shareholders in Wickham and Bullock Island
Coal Co. (N.S.W.) are probably sorry now that they didn’t
save enough out of the profits from the old colliery to
buy and open up a new one. The old colliery is worked
out ; and, as the co. has some pref. capital, if it was
wound up there wouldn’t be enough left from the sale of
assets to give the ordinary shareholders anything. The
latter therefore decided to keep their interest in the co.
by buying a new property. But as the co. has no avail-
able funds, though it paid a 12$ per cent. div. no later
than 1901, and as a new property costs money, and as
calls wouldn’t bring in the necessary money swiftly
enough, the directors have borrowed at 1% per cent,
interest. Of course, there has been a row over it, and one
lot of shareholders want to kick the directors. Nobody
has so far suggested that they should kick themselves for
encouraging per cent. divs. when they knew that the
mine was just about worked out and there wasn’t any
available capital to buy another one with.
* * * *
The basis of the settlement of the trouble
between the Australian Alliance Assurance Co. (Melb.)
and the life-policy-holders is that the co. shall transfer
£50,000. Gent One professes to see great difficulties in
the way of stopping the litigation ; but if both parties
agree to shut-down on costs, Gent One probably won’t see
so many difficulties. The original judgment against the
co. was for £113,082 ; the compromise will reduce capital
and reserves from £224,657 to £174,657, less costs, which
probably run to £lO,OOO at least—£s369 “law expenses”
was included as an asset in suspense as at August 31st,
being apparently the amount paid to that date. There
are 50,000 shares in the co. But in re-estimating the
value of shares, in view of the compromise, it has to be
remembered that, in the bulk, the assets don’t return
quite 3| per cent. ; so the reserves probably ought to be
written down by a considerable amount.
* * * *
Registered in Melbourne, the Ecclesiastical Fire
Insurance Co., Ltd., to insure Church of England property
in Australia. The Vic. bishops and one or two other
church officers have signed the articles of association.
The idea is to call up ss. a share on 20,000 shares, and run
the business in conjunction with the Anglican parsons’
provident fund, though each will have its own collection
plate and till. * * *
The Canterbury Farmers’ Co-operative Asso-
ciation, Ltd., is another of the big organisations by which
Maoriland producers do, to a great extent, without the
middleman, and keep his profits for themselves. Only two
of its balance-sheets are available—for 1904 and 1905—but
they show a large and apparently increasing business.
After paying dividends (8 per cent.)on capital, 6 per cent,
bonus on shareholders’ purchases, and making a 25 per
cent, rebateon commissionspaid by shareholders on various
sales, the co. in 1904 had reserves of £37,079, including
undivided profit. There were for this year (to
July 31) reserves of £57,551, in addition to
£758 premiums on new share issue ; total £58,309. The
year’s profit was thus £20,472 ; this was after writing off
£2144 for fire losses, besides ordinary depreciation. In
1904 the profit was £18,309, assuming that nothing was
written off the special reserve for doubtful debts—a pre-
vious balance sheet would be necessary in order to see
whether anything was written off or not. The paid capi-
tal is now £59,188, against £52,584 twelve months ago ;
and the same dividends and bonuses are to be paid, ab-
sorbing about £16,000, and leaving the reserves (including
undivided profit) at £42,309. In addition to its capital, the
co. has £94,127 of fixed deposits to work upon, and its
other liabilities to the public run to £89,113 ; total liabili-
ties to the- public, £183,240, or about twice the co.’s own
funds. The assets include freeholds £40,540 ; the balance
is goods on hand (£82,337), and sundry debtors. The
business is, no doubt, highly profitable, but with such a
very large amount of outstanding accounts and stock, the
! co. appears also to carry heavy risks. For a co-operative
co. its reserves are unusually large, but not at all too
large considering that the capital is small and liability to
loss through depreciation and bad debts is very extensive.
* * * *
Between the beginning of October and the end-
ing of it B.H. Block 10 shares sprinted along from 775. to
90s. and Junction Norths from 13s. to 16s. 3d. This, in
the case of Block 10’s, was on top of a previous big rise.
Sydney rushed in after both these shares, and there has
been a heap of over-selling. Speckers in Sydney
and elsewhere considered that Sydney was coming in at
the usual end of the animal, and that they would be able
to buy in lower in a few days if delivery was demanded.
Sydney all along has been taking a little notice of silver-
lead stocks certainly, but hasn’t been viewing them with
any enthusiasm; and now, when Block 10 has just
doubled its price in 13 months, and British (new) has gone
from 9s. lid. to 315., and South (cont.) from 295. 6d. to
625. 6d., it thinks it is time it spoke. But, having slept
this long time, it had better go on sleeping.
Broken Hill Block 10 shares had a jump of ss.
on the report of “another sale of residues”—6o,ooo tons
at, it is said, about 10s. a ton. “ Residues ” turn out to
be slimes, which Broken Hill hasn’t reokoned in as
residues for a long while past. B.H. Prop, has been kiln-
roasting and smelting this class of stuff for over three
years, and making a profit of £1 per ton out of it; so if
Block 10 hasn’t got more than 10s. per ton, it has done
poorly. And, in any case, the purchase of these slimes
doesn’t indicate any new development in metallurgy.
There would he much more justification for a sharp rise
in price of stock if the mill were doing better work and
getting one ton of silver-lead concentrates from 5£ or 6
tons of ore instead of from seven. The profit from that
wouldn’t arrive in a heap, like the proceeds of these sales
of tailings, etc. ; but it would last much longer, and
wouldn’t give the share-market the jumps so badly, and


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY appliances prop. | TfT 504 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS, TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
Aaaoa
Portable Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engines, High Speed Engines
-for Electric Light, &c-, &c.
EXPLOSIVES and MINING REQUISITES generally. CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
Sydney Manager: A. E. Leplastrier. Melbourne Manager: C. A. Lempriere.
A 12 inch Suction Dredging Plant is being built
for the Weldbrook Tin Mines Go. The plant will be
similar in design to those erected at the Pioneer and
Briseis Extended Tin Mines (Tasmania). The engines will
be of the vertical compound condensing type of about
300h.p. fitted with an Edwards type of air pump and
large surface condenser. The boilers will be two in
number, of the marine type, and will work at a pressure
of 1501 b. to the square inch. The nozzle pump will be
centrifugal and directly connected to a vertical compound
steam engine. The barge will be 45ft. square. The
Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, which
is constructing this dredge, has been particularly success-
ful in building these large type of suction dredges and
owing to their reputation have just concluded a contract
for the erection of a plant in the Federated Malay States
which promises to be the fore-runner of many more of the
like.*
* * * *
The Review (London) August 19.1904, writes:—
” The Colonial Mutual Life Office does quite a big business,
some three-quarters of a million sterling in new policies,
and nearly £330,000 in premium income. The funds are
now running close up to three millions sterling, and as the
oldest Colonial office established in Great Britain, it will
always be entitled to respect and consideration.”*
* * » *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.*
» * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large »
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
■K * * *
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more—alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 2500b.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
are also putting down “ Hornsby ” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
* * * •*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange). *
* * « *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tarift' and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* « * *
Send us your address and we will post you a
pamphlet gratis how to purify acetylene gas. Brandt
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney, and Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.*
a • « *
D.S. : Investment appears good and safe
A.F. : Vic. has £4,000,000 of funded debt maturing in 'O7,
£2,000,000 in ’OB, £2,107,000 in ’ll, £63,000 in ’l2, and
£4,746,795 in ’l3 ; and then it has time to breathe till ’l7,
when in six years £26,500,000 will come home to roost.
Of unfunded debt £3,433,000 has to be provided in the
next seven years, three-fourths of it within the next two
years.
wouldn’t therefore be so likely to leave people sorry by.
and-bye. , * » -
Broken Hill speculators are cheerful—such of
them as are not bears—because of ex-ceptionallyfavorable
lead statistics. But most metal statistics, those for lead
especially, are a good thing to fall-in over. It P
out that the September imports to Britain were only
15,917 tons, which was much less than usual , and as 5653
tons were exported, the supply must have been very
short, and prices must move up. No doubt t 0
moment. But look at it this way. For the first seven
months of the year the United States, which does
a huge smelting business in bond for Mexico, held
on to 22,274 tons of imported lead. Someof that may
have gone into consumption; but it isn t likely to
have been much, because it would have had to pay a •klO
per ton duty before it went out of bond ; and that the u.a.
can produce lead at much below the price to which the
duty would bring the imported metal, is shown by the
fact that it actually exported some of its own lead to
England, where there isn’t any duty. It looks, therefore,
as though the 22,274 tons and much more that has accu-
mulated since isn’t in England simply because it’s lying in
store in the U.S. waiting for the price to go up still
further ; and then it will dribble out. Which means that
prices are high now because the whole of current produc-
tion isn’t going into use ; presently they will be pushed
down below normal because more than current produc-
tion will be reaching the market. And prices of silver-
lead shares will probably follow.
In New York Mining Engineering J. W.
Broomhead, who is supposed to know something about
that tricky subject, the supply of metals, says that “ to
Broken Hill the world must look for its future supply of
spelter.. . I can clearly see that in a few years time these
Broken Hill mines will be in a position to dominate the
spelter market.” Broomhead adds: “In the whole
metallurgical world I can see nothing to compare with
future prospects of the Broken Hill group of mines.” All
of which w'ill make pleasant reading to those Broken Hill
co.’s that have jobbed away their whole output of zinc
material, plus one-fourth their lead and about three-fifths
of their silver, at little better than dirt prices. At pre-
sent it looks as though three-fourths of the profits will go
to a foreig n group of financiers : and unless Australia does
something emphatic, it looks also as though it won’t even
have the job of using its own labor and coal and coke to
turn the dirt into metal.
* * * *
The Bewick-Moreing people are taking an
interest in the Dapto (N.S.W.) smelting works—now in a
bailiff’s hfhds, mostly through trying to knock out
stronger people in the risky game of ore-buying. The
Anglo-Australian Smelting Co. is on the stocks in London,
with the new Zinc Corporation behind it ; if it goes (and
with that crowd to back it, it’s a small “if”) the first
business will be to shift the works from Dapto, where they
should never have been put, to Newcastle. The old bait
of big New Caledonian custom is also being held out;
and the product from the new Broken Hill South Blocks
mill, which is also under Bewick-Moreing control, will go
that way. So far the Zinc Corporation hasn’t done any-
thing more definite than get plans under weigh for the
first unit of a concentrating plant to handle its tailings.
Present idea is to send on the silver-lead product to the
new works at Newcastle, and let the foreigner have the
much bigger job of smelting the zinc product.
» * » *
“Watty” : Re first shipment of ore from the
Barrier. According to a statement made to me by late
explorer Ernest Giles, “ Paddy ” Green tried the district
years before the records credit him with having done it.
Giles, in ’94, told me and others that, 20 years previously,
he, under instructions from Green, went out to the
Barrier to find by observation its latitude and longitude,
and ascertain whether it was in N.S.W. or S. Australia.
Green knew of the outcrop of what is now Broken Hill.
On Giles’ return to Bourke, Green sent out a cart from
Bourke, and had a ton of surface stone brought in 300
miles or so. A local blacksmith smelted some of it in his
forge, and as the stuff that resulted looked like ordinary
clinker, Green abandoned his scheme. No crucible was
used, and naturally enough the product would appear as
common clinker. They only thought of g - old —never
thought of silver or lead. For years the boulders lay in
the backyard, and Green, junior, told me he used to roll
them down the banks of the Darling River. Green, senr.,
was within an ace of capturing Broken Hill, and was just
the sort of man to open it up.
* * *
New Hillgrove Prop.’s shaft (N.S.W.) is a
source of anxiety. That no one was killed in the recent
burst is a consolation, but the possibility of more serious
consequences is there all the same. If the shaft became
useless it would force the Prop, to come to some arrange-
ment with,Baker’s Creek Co., whose boundary is only 90ft.
away. ~ If these co.’s threw in their lot together there
would be a better chance of developing the deeper levels,
which can be done more conveniently from the New Hill-
grove end. The scheme to carry the New Hillgrove
Prop, tunnel right through to cut the Eleanora reef is
one of those big ideas that require both courage and
money; and J. Bull, who owns the Hillgrove Prop.,
credits himself with plenty of both. But if the Eleanora
shaft is to be sunk, as is also proposed, it seems like
making two bites at one small fruit.
* * * *
Shareholders in Cobar Gold Mines are a patient,
long-suffering crowd. They didn’t kick when every penny
of profit made out of their oxidised ores was put into the
stocking - —“ to provide plant,” they were told, “ to treat
the sulphides with.” Twelve months ago they were told
that the milling ores were just- about finished. Since
then, however,: things have just dragged on, and latterly
the expensive mill, which will soon have to be scrapped,
has been banging away at odds and ends that have not
anything like paid costs. And still not a word about the
policy for the future. It’s a pretty long stocking the co.
has ; but it will melt without anything being done if
shareholders don’t wake up the board.
Apropos the richness of the ore where struck i n
the C.S.A., Cobar (N.S.W.). The nature of the C.S.A.
body is worth remembering ; it is a big lode from which,
down to the point where the ore was struck, the metals
had been leached out. G. H. Blakemore and others con-
cluded that there must be something below water level
because, near by, solid blocks of copper, evidently leached
from this lode, and caught in crevices of neighboring
rocks, had formerly been found. It is highly probable
that, where the ore is now found, it contains much of the
metal leached out from the lode above. The same thing
occurred at Broken Hill; the richest ore was found just
below the porous ironstone, and, again, the cap of the
sulphide zone was far richer than the ore that is found
.underneath. The general average of C.S.A. ore can’t
■ therefore be judged with certainty from the value of the
stuff in the present crosscut.
* * * *
R. W. Hardie, of Hardie and Gorman, hit Syd-
ney while it was hot, with a little C.S.A. float. At Cobar
he"got hold of three blocks, south of the one that Frank
■Gardner bought from Andrews Brothers, and, coming
back, asked £2OOO and a sixth interest for them. After
■some negotiations with Gardner, people were found to
.take them up on these terms, and the public has come into
the gamble. There are now 1000 shares of £lO, 800 being
Issued—soo to the public and 300 to the vendors. The
vendors also take £2500, which leaves £2500 to cover the
•cost of fossicking for the"C.S.A. lode—if it is there. If it
.runs far enough in the course it is apparently taking, it
.ought to be there ; but, then, all lodes stop somewhere.
* * * *
Castlemaine (Vic.) lives on the ground-sluicing
industry just now. It hasn’t three quartz mines worthy
the name, for the Spring Gully group isn’t panning out
up to hopes, and Francis Ormond is still groping about
for a payable shoot of stone. Then Cumberland and
Phoenix has closed down, and its plant sold. But divs.
flow in from the dredges, so the townspeople don’t look
so much down the sides of their noses as they should.
Balance-sheet of the Golden Point Dredging Co.
shows that, on Bs. called up, 19s. has been paid.
Russell’s Golden Point Co. has also started with a 2s. 6d.
div. on shares only called up to ss. These are first class
records, and explain the preference of Castlemaine folk
for this class of mining, as the risk isn’t great and profits
are almost certain if reasonable precautions have been
taken to prospect the ground.
Bright (Vic.) people are gradually opening their
eyes to the tact that Tewksbury wasn’t such a fool as they
took him to be when he pegged out the high land above
the river that every one had scorned as useless for bucket-
dredging. Tewksbury’s own dredge is reported to have
done record work, though the owner has kept a silent
tongue about results. Still, there must have been some-
thing out of the common or he would not have cleared so
fast to Maoriland to buy a couple more dredges. Nor
would there have been such ease in raising the funds to
put them on the ground. One or two Sj'dney people are
supposed to have joined with Tewksbury.
Melbourne newspaper men used so much paper
over compliments to Long Tunnel Dawson about his
analysis of the co.’s costs that they forgot to perform that
little duty for themselves. What has to be borne in mind
is that Long Tunnel stock has a market value of well on
the way to £5. Is there enough stone in sight to justify
that value? Development work during last half-year
resulted in 29,000 tons being proved. Putting this
down as worth 13dwt., the stone in sight carries
18,5000 z., which at £3 12s. 6d. per oz. is worth, say,
£68,000. Costs at £1 10s. per ton work out at £43,500,
or a profit in sight of about £25,000. On a share register
of 24,000 shares this is equal to a little over 20s. per share.
Co. has not thought about the capital for a new battery,
and it has to open up its north-west ground. Here there
are about 80,000 tons worth 9dwt., and if it can be worked
at a cost of 7dwt., then the backbone of the co. will be
found there. With the Extended working at 2500 ft., the
ground ought to be partly drained. Then the co. has
stone at 2050 ft. south to develop, but that cannot he
classed as proved until the trend of the shoot is known.
* * * ♦
Walhalla (Vic.) people, it was said last week,
had backed the Long Tunnel against the Extended, and
must be scowling over late developments. Whereupon a
Walhalla man writes: “ True, Long Tunnel has been
bumped lately, and those who got in at high-water mark
have had nightmare a couple of times. The Gladstone
tin collapse has not helped to steady things ; but, all the
same, Grayson’s incline shaft won’t turn on him. It will
be there when the last Pearson draws the ancestral div.
The mine will give the bear crowd a shake before long.
Present yields are more than bread-and-butter, and
another ’weight or two will leave the hand-to-mouth days
behind. Workings look a lump better just now, and
stampers are not telling a bad tale. To put the shaft
down another lift is only a small matter the way they do
things these times.”
* * * »
Re Coronation, Walhalla (Vic.), held up the
other day as a model for the Collins-street-run Donnelly’s
Creek shows to copy. The claim, on the outskirts of the
Gippsland township, started in a small way, and is now
going strong. It has a register of 2400 shares, same as
old Long Tunnel. Co. is putting through 100 tons a
fortnight of ounce dirt. There is a 6-head mill, but it is
shortly to be added to. The board is a practical crowd,
and the mine manager gets up early. Shareholders,
mostly miners, have handled regular divs. since Xmas,
and sit behind a decent reserve. Original shareholders
are on velvet, and are said not to have parted with a
scrip.
m * * *
Queensland coal-production makes very little
progress nowadays. From 1895 to 1901 the State tariff pro-
moted industries, and there were factories for the collieries
to feed, so the output moved along briskly from 323,068
tons to 539,472 tons. Then the Commonwealth Laborites
“sank the fiscal issue,” and Queensland made a further
mess of things and sent some Foreign-traders to the Aus-
tralian Parliament to help G. H. Reid knock out such fac-
tories as there were. Consequently, though the coal out-
put had moved from 323,068 tons in 1895 to 539,472 tons in
1901, it at once began to sag again, and last year it was
down to 512,015 tons. Moreover, in the struggle to keep
going, the collieries have been obliged to cut down their
selling rates; the average pricejn 1898 was 7s. 4|d. per
ton (Ipswich coal), and last year it was only ss. 11 jd. And
the hewing rates have come down to c rrespond. Pre-
vious to the Federal tariff there was an import duty ; but
the fall in the output of Queensland coal has not been
due to the removal of that duty. In fact, the imports of
coal, coke, and shale in the past five years have been
valued as follows
1900 .. ..£32,654 I 1903 .. ..£25,083
1901 .. .. 31,256 1904 .. .. 16,494
1902 .. .. 24,902 I
The development of Queensland coal mines, which was
going on steadily under the moderately high State tariff,
has thus been stopped, not by inter-State competition,
. but because the low Commonwealth tariff has knocked
out the Queensland coal-using industries that were
slowly g-etting' on their feet. The Queensland Laborites
sank the i seal issue and the hopes of Queensland indus-
tries and the Queensland coal trade at the same time.
Ipswich or Bundamba coal isn’t the best in the
world, but it is a long way from being the worst. It is
somewhat tender, and requires careful handling ; also it
needs screening. One or two cargoes have been sent
away, and haven’t turned out well ; but absolutely no
conclusive test has been made of it. And, anyhow, if
there were the home consumption that there should be,
there would be no need to look to foreign trade. The
known coal resources of the northern State are not any-
thing tremendous, and there’s no reason why Queensland
should break its neck in a struggle td feed the foreign
factory when it has none too much with which to feed the
factories it ought to have itself. The tests certainly
didn’t prove that the coal was not of excellent quality
for home use. An evil yarn was once told about N.S.W.
coals for coking purposes; nobody would buy N.S.W.
coke, because one or two tests of coke made out of coal
that hadn’t been properly screened and washed gave poor
results. Yet in 10 years, with proper handling, N.S.W.
coke has absolutely driven the foreign article out of the
Australian market. Queensland coal years ago was put to
another test in the Government steamer Otter, under
rigorous conditions, and came out satisfactorily. It then
took from 7’6831b. to BT7Blb. of Queensland coal to
evaporate water from the boiling point, against from
8‘043 to 8T221b. of N.S.W. coal. A coal that stands up as
well as that in comparison with the Bulli and Newcastle
product is good enough. It is only the tariff that isn’t
good enough.
* * * *
The output of Q. coal for the past couple of
years would not have shown up even as well as it has
done if it had not been for the opening up of three or
four new collieries in the Ipswich district, from which
large quantities of surface coal have been available at a
very low cost. The Aberdare colliery, the biggest in the
State, has held its own, but the other older ones haven’t ;
and the average time worked in the district has only been
about three days a week—which is a pretty heavy price to
pay for “ sinking the fiscal issue.” An association to more
or less handle the coal of the district—much in the same
way as the Lithgow association does on the western
N.S.W. field—might do some good. It would help, at
any rate, so far as shipping business is concerned ; at
present no colliery can promptly supply a large order.
But there would be a lot of waste even then ; an amalga-
mation of several interests is badly needed to get the
best working results. The present is an ineffective, cut-
throat system ; and if a colliery is hard pushed it often
isn’t as particular as it ought to be in “ filling,” and an
owner can’t be too particular in working banded seams
like those at Ipswich. But amalgamation or an associa-
tion wouldn’t increase the demand for coal; it might, in
fact, put up the price, and reduce the demand. Nothing
but a higher tariff can put up the demand and the price
at the same time.
» * * *
Mt. Morgan (Q.) is ahead of most
mining co.’s in two respects—it has adopted producer gas
for its power plant, and has steam shovels at work. Most
interest centres round producer gas because the co.
alleges a big economy is made in the use of coal. Some
of the coal is anthracite, mined at Wallaroo (Q.), and con-
taining over 80 per cent, of carbon. Producer gas is
formed by the mixture of steam with furnace gases, and
where big units of power are required at a fixed centre, it
is found more economical than the ordinary steam power.
Although roasting and chlorination is an elaborate pro-
cess, Mt. Morgan has reduced mining and treatment
costs below the figures of most co.’s which treat ore in
the crudest manner. The average is slightly under the
half-ounce ; and yet the 3d. monthly dividend tots up to
£150,000 per annum.
* * * *
From 1896, when the business started, to the
end of last year, 3,232,645 tons of Charters Towers tail-
ings had been cyanided for 1,425,9790 z. bullion. At 355.
per oz. this means that £2,495,463 has been squeezed out
of the tailings dumps. The old stocks being about
exhausted, the current output doesn’t, however, reach
the figures of a few years ago. Since 1899 —the top—
things have moved this way
Tons. Bullion, oz.
1899 . 693,538 278,256
1900 .. 515,206 237,935
1901 .. 381,671 154,621
1902 .. 320,245 140,092
1903 . 268,411 144,438
1904 .. 281,490 128,642
Present mturn of tailings is about 20,000 tons a month, of
which only 200 or 300 tons are from old dumps.
* * * *
North Queensland is having another little flutter,
in antimony mining. Market for the metal has topped
£6O, and buyers are offering from £2O to £25 per ton for
60 to 70 per cent, material. It is certain, from these
figures, that the N.Q. stuff is free from such impurities as
lead and arsenic. Nevertheless the buyers’ price leaves
£l5 to £2O per ton to cover transport to Europe, and
smelters’ costs and profit. Although the metal is
extremely volatile, metallurgical losses are not heavy. In
fact, antimony smelting and starring is anything but
difficult, and when Australia has rubbed its eyes
sufficiently and introduced a reasonable protective tariff,
the bulk of that £l5 to £2O per ton will remain in Aus-
tralia. We will ship the starred metal and receive the
foreigners’ cash for it.
* » * «
Officially reported that the surveyors of the
Etheridge-Almaden (N.Q.) route have discovered an easy
means of crossing the Newcastle Range. The survey is
being conducted at the joint expense of the Queensland
Government and the Chillagoe Co. Surveyor Fraser, who
is making a name for himself in N.Q., has charge of the
field work. The Government, however, controls the sur-
vey. An easy route over the Newcastle Range is cer-
tainly something accomplished. Fraser has gone back to
Einasleigh, whence he will begin his trial survey. Detail
survey from Almaden to Einasleigh was made three years
ago, but, despite that fact, and despite the solution of
the Newcastle Range difficulty, it looks as if the present
session will not see the Etheridge Bill.
* * * *
Aldershot works (Maryborough, Q.) have just
handled two rich parcels of New Guinea stone. First, 46
tons 18cwt., from the Woodlark King, owned by
McLellan, Hicks, and McLean, gave £BlO, or 4oz. 18dwt.
per ton (this gold is only worth £3 10s. 6d. per oz.); the
other, from the Illawarra claim, on Woodlark Island,
belonging to Hicks and McLean,"gave 4oz. 2dwt. per ton
from 23 tons. Latter gold was worth £3 13s. lid.,
making the parcel worth £348. A small quantity of con-
centrates is still to be dealt with. These owners have
another parcel coming down.
•* * « *
Reconstruction of Hannan’s Star (W.A.) and
proposal to double the treatment plant, seem more
unjustifiable as time proceeds. During September co.
treated 2450 tons worth 15s. 9d. at a cost of 235. 10d., and
made a loss of Bs. Id. per ton, or £lOOO. During previous
three months the loss was £l4OO. Further, the estimates
of ore reserves are unreliable, as the co.’s history has
proved. Last official estimate gave the value of reserves
as 345. a ton ; and, as shown just now, the ore treated in
September was worth only 15s. 9d. The 4s. assessment
will give directors £42,400, but if they double the plant,
and double the loss, the money won’t last long. Mine
can provide barely 25,000 tons monthly of the grade now
being treated. What will happen when double the quantity
has to be gouged out ? Probably the loss will be more
than doubled.
* * « •
Lady Shenton, Menzies (W.A.), which was
supposed to be utterly depleted, has some pay ore still.
During September tributors gouged out 523 tons, giving
4110 z., which isn’t bad for a dead’un. Mine was always
very patchy, and the shoots difficult to locate and follow ;
but tributors have a keen scent for patches. Many mines
in W.A. would be working more extensively if tributes
could be obtained. For instance, tributors have long
been trying to get into Hannan’s Brown Hill, and are
willing to start from the surface, but management won’t.
This dog-in-the-manager policy will be stopped some day.
* * * *
The latest race of mining men seen in Tassy are
of the sanguine order. The one notable exception is
Ryan, of the Gladstone. Grayson and Paul Northey vie
with one another in whooping up their respective shows.
Now another Northey has joined the chorus of these
greater prophets. This is J. W., brother of Paul; and he
tootles in a nice strain over a tin show up at the half-
worked-out Weldborough field. The claim is the Weld-
brook, a float of Langford’s, and recently discussed by
“ East Tasmanians” Nos. 1 and 2in The Bulletin. “The
flats are wide,” says the newcomer. They are—and many,
as anyone who has visited Weldborough knows. They
are also wet, he opines. That is not unusual
on the part of flats, especially in winter.
J. W. Northey found the Weldbrook flats too wet, in
fact, to bottom, so he tried the dumps of old shafts. He
sampled the claim in other places with “equally good
results.” Of the overburden, he writes “ The whole of
the overburden carries tin. In places the surface soil is
rich in tin. I have seen lib. weight of tin washed from a
small dish of dirt, but I do not wish to impress on your
minds that the whole of the surface soil is like this.”
This note of warning comes just in time to save the situa-
tion. It inspires the hope that in the summer some of
the flow of enthusiasm may evaporate, and that J. W.
Northey will then do a systematic sampling of the claim,
Weigh the property up in the balance that Paul used at
Arltunga, and then let the public know if his later results
coincide with surface prospects. Till then the public had
better wait. It is just as unsafe to buy a pig in a bog as
one in a bag.
* * * *
J. P. Lonergan, who has passed out in London,
was James Crotty’s nephew, and shared the latter’s for-
tunes on the Lyell field. Lonergan, prior to Crotty’s
strike of good fortune, was a railway-man who had worked
his way forward with Celtic push and good humor to the
post of station-master at a Melb. suburban station. It
was a change from selling - tickets to becoming the holder
of mining stocks worth a hundred thousand. Crotty
and Lonergan made big rises out of North Lyell. But how
much bigger would it have been had they never gone to
London to bring in Bull directors ! Lonergan was also
up to his neck in the fateful South Lyell, in Lyell Con-
sols, and a dozen other shows of the field which once had
a value of pounds, but now are almost forgotten. In his
halcyon days in Melbourne Lonergan was a marvel of
generosity, and more than one man ought to pay a
tribute to his memory. Also he owned the Mt. Lyell
paper, which came to so untimely an end. Of late years
he lived in London, but his surroundings there were
never so congenial as in Melbourne amid the dare-
devil set in which he moved.
* * * •
“Vigilans,” from Yam Creek (N.T.) : —“The
Northern Territory Mines of Australia, Ltd., is an English
co. It holds an immense area in the North ; much of the
country from the Howley to Pine Creek is in its hands.
Not a mine is really being worked in the 50 miles. Men
have tried to get tributes, but no business. Something is
wrong in the Mining- Act, when a great slice of country
can be held like this. For years nothing of consequence
has been done, and the place is merely a wilderness inha-
bited by a few Chows. Is it any wonder the country
makes no headway when this and other co.’s hold mining
areas just for speculation ?
“The Howley Mine, Brock’s Creek, has been shut
down for many months. Europeans have vainly applied for
tributes. Why they hold on to this mine is a mystery.
Tons of machinery are lying rotting - all over the place. A
40-stamp battery is falling into decay, while white ants
have destroyed the woodwork. •
“At Yam Creek the co. is ‘developing’ the
Ironblow and Mount Ellison mines. Some huge sum (they
say £170,000) has been spent (largely wasted) in batteries,
buildings, &c. A 20-stamp battery has hardly ever been
used. Two Wilfley tables are used by goats as a camping
place. A smelter and two reverb, furnaces lie idle and
sadly need repairs. Tons of machinery are stored away
or lying about promiscuously. Electric light is laid on
everywhere, and there is a hundred miles or so of telephone.
A main line cost £28,000 for 11£ miles. A general mana-
ger, assayer, assistant assayer, three clerks, underground
manager, engineer, shift-boss, and foreman carpenter
look after 12 European miners and 35 Chows at the Iron-
blow. At Mt. Ellison two whites look after 28 Ah Pongs.
The Ironblow (silver-gold) is down to the 200 ft.
level. Enough ore is lying- at grass to last the smelters
for eight months. Some of this ore runs up to 670 z.
silver and 12dwt. gold. There is no difficulty in smelting ;
as yet they have not met any trouble from zinc.
A large quantity of iron ore from the blow
is lying on the hill, and carries enough gold to pay an
economical co. Last smelting was six months ago. In
six weeks the value of the ore smelted amounted' to
£ll,OOO. There’s a veil of mystery hanging over this
mine. Unlike most N.T. mines, the workings on the
100 ft. and 200 ft. levels are good. It should be a good
gamble to buy shares at Is. 6d. (present quotation). After
next smelting more should be heard of the Ironblow.
But in connection with the N.T. you never know. At
Mount Ellison (copper) developing work is going on, on
the same lines as at the Ironblow. Everyone is very
reticent. All the work at Yam Creek was done by
Chinese, and therefore there is no European settlement
to-day ; only Chow hovels are in evidence.
‘ ‘ Efforts are being made by the S. Australian
Government to boom the ‘ white elephant.’ 11. Y. L.
Brown, the Govt. Geologist, is here, there, and every-
where. A diamond drill is down 330 ft. at the Union, at
an angle of 45deg. Wells and party are off to the Victoria
River. Another party has left recently for the Rop r.
Yet mining in the N.T. is almost dead. Zapopan is let to
Chow tributors, who pay 10 per cent, and 10s. for crush-
ing. Up to date (Sept. 30) they have got 5700 z. in 36
days. The Northern Territory Mining and Smelting Co.
is a mystery. Daly River Govt, smelter is shut-down.
Chows are scratching at Bynoe Harbor and Pine Creek.
The Mining Act wants remodelling, and dummying for
Chows needs to be stopped before you can improve
matters in the N.T.”
• * * *
Sydney inventor Frank Cotton, whose oil-
burning furnace excited some attention, has now on hand
a patent process for making steel from iron ore in one
process.
* ■* # S
The annual report of the Maori land Mines
Department shows the results of the work of 50 dredges
for four years:—
Gold. Capital
oz. Invested. Dividends.
1801 .. 44,914 £472,076 £45,359
1902 .. 71,315 348,801 107,506
1903 .. 54,162 395,429 81,177
1904 .. 59,613 356,784 85,226
Last year’s return thus averaged about 24 per cent, on
capital invested. But the return was very irregular.
Only 21 of the 50 dredges paid anything at all ; while the
Electric, on a capital of £26,000, paid £39,650, or over 150
per cent. After that the most profitable was the Rox-
burgh Jubilee, which paid £6750 on a capital of £7500.
Both these co.’s have continued exceedingly profitable
throughout the present year. The average profit to the
shareholders of all dredges furnishing particulars to the
department works out at about 28s. per oz. won.


Hotel
Australia
RATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of
guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Oastlereagh-st,, Sydney.
Householders will find that for universa.
use Little’s Phenyle Disinfectants are unsurpassedl
The Soluble Phenyle is a powerful insecticide, it
kills bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &c., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold by all
chemists, grocers, storekeepers, through Aus-
tralia.*
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
M
sdf
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHINERY
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
“ and only man IS VILE.”
[For Tub Bulletin.]
I’ve seen a bloke hauled up fer drivin’ ’orses what had
sores
On their shoulders, or their withers, or their backs,
And a sehool-marrn get a wiggin’ fer leath’rin’ cranky kids,
And a butcher fined fer over-ridin’ hacks ;
And I’ve heard the parsons preachin’ (not very often,
mind !)
’Bout the cruelty that’s rampant in this isle,
“ Where every prospect pleases,” an’ Nature’s always kind ;
Where everything’s rybuck “ but man is vile."
Now, you take them sore-backed horses an’ let Nature
have her way ;
Turn the prads out where v'.e man can’t make ’em work,
Nature traps ’em in a bog-hoie, and the sun shines just as
gay,
While they s' irves to d ;ath—my word ! she’ll never shirk
From playin' of a lo,/-down trick. Now blokes will
sometimes try
To do a little kindness for a mate,
But as far as I can gather, if you take things full an’ by,
You’ll find that Nature mostly deals in hate.
If a man ain’t drowned he’s earthquaked, an’ Provi-
dence ’ll grin
Oftentimes, and send a tidal wave along
To show how kind is Nature, and that man is full o’ sin,
An’ to prove that she is right and sin is wrong.
Heres some silly blokes,” says Nature, “under trees
out of the rain ;
I’ll stiffen ’em with lightnin’.” Then she laughs
An’ finds some kids in swimmin’; drowns ’em all, and
grins again
At a bloke who tries to save ’em, while she chaffs.
■*
P’raps a bush bloke’s doin’ decent, an’ has crops an’ kids
an’ stock,
An’ he’s kind to ’em, an’ they are fond of him ;
Nature reckons he shall prosper, an’ helps to fill his sock,
While she gets her teeth an’ claws in fightin’ trim.
Then she kills the kids with fever, rusts the crops an’
sends a drought ;
Dries the country so that she can help the fire,
And as she licks the land up and burns the cocky out,
She somehow makes the hymn-book out a liar.
Nature likes to see a kitten slowly paw a mouse to death
(If she didn’t she’d ha’ never taught it how).
An’ to watch a crow pick eyes out while a jumbuck’s still
got breath,
An’ a snake to bite a cocky’s only cow.
If these is “ pleasant prospects ’’—well, I’ve got no more
to say;
But you study Nature’s note-book for awhile
And you’ll find, if you are nimble with yer eyes from day
to day,
That other things besides a bloke is vile.
Claude Jewell.
DECLINED WITH THANKS.
BLACK BILL: “I say, young feller, me an' Mike
is just goin’ to settle a little difference of
opinion atween us, Markis o’ Queensbery
rules, an' we wants yer to tear us apart when
we gets inter holts, see!"
“A.D.”: A writer in a recent Bulletin
asks how it is that young fruit trees, growing in
the bush, are always free from pests. Plum,
peach, and citous seedlings will thrive in the
bush only up to a certain point. They perish
from want of sun and root-moisture. The far-
reaching gum and stringy-bark roots suck up the
available nourishment. The seedling thrives in
the loos« sub-soil, but when its roots develop, and
it starts to suck the hard, untilled clay, it meets
trouble. The constant dripping of moisture from
the eucalyptus probably frees the bush seedling
from pests; also it blights with the strength of
sulphuric acid the fruit when it starts to appear.
“Kaira” : I’ve been reading a lot about
wild-bee chasing, and thought I’d have a go
myself. I chose a biv bumble-bee for the object
of my chase, because 1 could see him further than
the smaller species, and because, if I lost sight of
him, I might still hear him buzz. After waiting
for a few minutes for him to drink his fill, I found
he could hold more than my patience would
permit, so I shooed him off the premises. He
made it easy going for me across my paddock.
Then I had to trespass on other people’s pad-
docks, and disturb other people’s dogs and cattle.
I had him well in hand till we came to the closer
settlement area, where the fences blocked me
considerably. We next came to a Chow’s garden,
and over the spring onions I flew like a scalded
cat, while Bung Lung, shouting “muck a hi,”
was a bad third with the pitchfork. When we
came to the garden plots the pursued stopped to
take in more cargo, but by the way he was puffing
I saw it was only a ruse for a spell, so I shook
him up again. We next came to a decline, and I
had him at the end of my nose; in fact, if he had
stopped to scratch himself we must have tele-
scoped. He put on a spurt, and was getting
away from me now, and I had to keep my eye
straight on him. He took a half-left turn ; I did
likewise. He went straight on, and I tripped
over a dog with my feet and struck a box with my
head. The box was a beehive. I took refuge in
a waterhole, and a thick, indignant blanket of
bees settled over it looking for me. But I tracked
my insect all right.
• * # •
“H.S.R.” writes:—
Ths Bullktin does not appear to have received the
prospectus of the Rockmelons’ Standard Soul Trust,
which is bound to cause a revolution in the sky-pilot
business. The idea is to build automata resembling
parsons after the manner of marionettes, and with a
newly-invented tape talking-machine, which will run for
half an hour, do the preaching now so expensively done
by parsons of all breeds of religious thought. It is
expected that any congregation can be run by this
machine for about £25 per annum, including the royalty
to the Standard Soul Trust on the invention. For a
sn all extra charge the Trust will fit up one of its patent
automatic collection-plate outfits. You can order any
breed of parson, from hard-shell Baptist to coon re-
vivalist, or Torrey and Alexander style. New tapes can
he had at so much per yard, and the sermons, prayers and
hymns can be turned on by quite inexperienced persons.
• • • •
“Two Seas,” on a much-debated beast:—
I lived in dingo-haunted country for some years, and
my experience says that dingoes do bark—to a limited
extent. They give three or four sharp barks, followed
by a blood-curdling howl unlike the cry of any other
animal on earth. It was the only sound in the bush that
disturbed my sleep and brought me out of my bunk look-
ing for my gun, and I can still hear ilsometimes in my
dreams. I have seen some mention of a “ tame ” dingo.
Nonsense ! You can’t tame a dingo—not even a half-
bred dingo. I’ve tried often, and know it, and have fed
pups myself—allowing no one else to do so—and they
would never cease to snap at my hand if I came too close.
I tied a slut up one night as a decoy when “laying” for
a dingo. Went to sleep—result, a fine litter of dingo
pups. Trained the quietest of them to work sheep, and
took her on a droving trip. But she was never tame.
When travelling to the station where I was to take
delivery of the sheep, she followed myself and mates, but
we rarely got a glimpse of her on the road. Keeping
about one hundred yards behind us, she would stop and
slink behind a tree or a log if one of us pulled up and
looked back. When we took delivery of the sheep she
worked well all day on her own—watching one wing of
the mob —trotting up and down and turning °the
stragglers in quite noiselessly ; but if I spoke to her, or
took any notice at all of her work, she would slink out of
sight.
Don’t know what she lived upon. At night she never
came up to the camp like the other dogs at supper-
time, looking for her share of the bones ; but she was
always ready to do her silent work in the morning when
the sheep moved off camp—and she always did it alone.
If one of the other dogs came round her side she curled
up her top lip, which was a hint seldom ignored. She
was never friendly, although I had her for many years.
* * * *
“C.X.Gr.”: Queensland keeps an expen-
sive vermin fence going on the 8. A. border. Why,
Heaven only knows. Riding along it a short time
ago I saw more rabbits on the Queensland
side than in S.A. As for the dingoes, where the
fence is a bit low they jump it in their stride. One
of the boundary-riders showed me a pad coming
ud to the fence on the one side and continuing on
the other, made entirely by dogs. He also told me
that whenever the netting had the least bit of a
sag on it the rabbits would climb it and drop on the
other, side. I believed him, for I saw one or two
dead ones suspended in the netting.
* » * *
Another imported curse comes to roost.
Premier Bent is now setting gangs of the unem-
ployed to work cutting down that useless parasite,
the mistletoe, which has already destroyed thou-
sands of valuable trees in the Vic. State forests.
* * * *
“Krex”; “C.X.G.” (B. 7/9/’O5) is
going “on the blind,” or does not know what he
is talking about, when he says that it was a rare
thing to see a dingo on Strzlecki Creek, a few
years back, when the S.A. Government was
paying for scalps. In 1900, when the bounty was
3s. a scalp, they could be seen just as frequently
as at present; and a mail-horse-minder at Del-
linghri, 20 miles from Innamincka on the Strzlecki,
by poisoning a dead horse half-a-mile from his
camp, scalped 35 in two nights. The dingoes
even used to eat their poisoned mates, turning the
skin inside out, just as a hawk does a rabbit.
“ C.X.G.’s” sarcastic reference to Queenslanders
as a painfully accurate people would be funny if
the drivers of the Strzlecki mail for the past 18
months were not South Australians. I know
them personally. The yarn about dogs chewing
hobble straps on horses is an old camp-fire lie to
illustrate the temerity of the animals, but it is
getting rather grey now. Hope this truth flies up
and hits “C.X.G.” in the right place, which in
his case seems to be almost any place.
* * * *
“ Kodak ” : The tall, mild, quiet man
with the trustful brown eyes cleared his throat:
“Once, when I kept fowls, a little incident hap-
pened which revealed to me the hitherto”—
“Five to one Hitherto!” muttered someone at
the bar—“ unexpected cunning of the ordinary
every-day variety of fowl,” concluded the quiet
man, looking round the room. “One day I
noticed a hen limping rather badly, so after a
while I fixed it up with a bread poultice. The
hen seemed to like it and it did her a lot of good
—until she pecked the bandage off and tasted the
poultice. Then she and her friends made a meal
of it. Next morning when I went out I found
every hen in the place limping!" There was a
pause. Then a faint voice asked for beer.
DONOVAN'S MOTOR.
BUSHIE: “ Darn my sight if that ain't Blinky Donovan what uster work
Carter's saw-mill! By gum, ten year ago he never thought he'd he
driving his own motor-car!"
“Pilio”: Par (14/9/’O5) headed “What
you see at Australia’s back-door step” isn’t
accurate. First, Cavanagh-street is not the main
street of Port Darwin, and, in addition to the white
saddler mentioned, it has a white pub run by a
white Australian and his white family, a white
painter, also a white sub-collector of customs and
white family, a white railway super and his white
ditto, also a white school-mistress with a some-
what speckled class-list. And there are others.
The municipal laborers are white, but contracts
are open to Chinese. The jetty cost £BO,OOO, not
£lO,OOO, and took two years over the estimate to
build—a good deal of colored labor was employed.
There’s not a Chinese clerk in the Territory. The
cable station does not employ a Chinese engineer.
In fact, the par referred to is so grossly inaccurate
and exaggerative as to be beyond criticism. Any
white man who cares to work can find a living
here. The mongrel Asiatic may be a curse, but
an additional curse is the white man who arrives
here penniless, and with a disinclination tc earn
a penny. We’ve had several of these lately.
They were treated well too ; but one, at least, has
evidently expended part of his borrowings in
stationery on which to libel this unhappy land.
Yes, the Chow is a curse here —some white men
are a curse anywhere. Send the right sort, and
we’ll keep his end up.
* * * *
“L.L.8.”: There were two brothers,
neighboring cookies. One kept pigs, the other
didn’t. The swine of the brother who did got into
the crop of the brother who didn’t, and did for it.
The brother who didn’t sought liquidated damages
therefor. The brother who owned the pigs that
did told him he had no hope, and that it wasn’t
the fault of the swine but of the fences, and that if
the fences, &c., &c. Each told his brother “other
things ”as well. The other day I met the pigless
brother and listened attentively to his tale.
“Nonsense, Jim,” said I, “what do you intend to
do ?” “Do ! ” said he, “ nothing now. But just
you wait a while —wait till mother’s dead.”
• * * •
“ C.X.G.” : Afghans have some quaint
ideas about animal diet. Tumbled across one the
other day. He had 101 b. or 121 b. of butter melted
into a gallon jar. Asked him what he was going
to do with it, and he explained it was for the stud
bull camel. Said it made him very strong.
On another occasion I hit on one doctoring
a sick camel with mutton broth, which, he
explained, was one of the best things
going for sick camels. Judging by the ex-
pression of contempt on that camel’s face
and the noise he made, I don’t think he
quite fell in with Rusty Khan’s ideas on
the subject.
Manifesto recently posted up by a N.S.W.
farmer :
Take notice, I warn all persons, especially Protestants,
off my land ; and caution everyone not to call at my
house upon any excuse.
I want no person’s acquaintance, and request everyone
not to speak to me, to prevent false charges being faked
up.
The last canard is colorable escobarderie. Owners of
stock on my land must remove them within seven days
from date.
H. Blank Smith.
* * * *
The female inspectorofVic. school-teachers’
back-blocks residences, lately appointed by Bent,
is telling some interesting things. The other day
she recommended that a way-back school should
have a male teacher instead of the girl at present
stationed there, “as there is in the whole district
no suitable accommodation for a young girl, there
being a total absence, of sanitary provision, and
the residents failing generally to recognise that
any improvement is needed. But,” the report
closes, “ these dirty people are well off for horses
and buggies.” Which is a charming little piece
of criticism of the “poor farmer” when you look
at it.
“ Yarrum ” :
“Reading in The
Bulletin about
treatment of con-
victs,” said old
Simpson to me,
‘ ‘ reminds me of
when I was up
country, before
fou were born.
was tutor on
a station where
from 30 to 40 as-
signed servants
were kept. The
wife of the person
who engaged me
bossed the whole
show, and super-
intended the flog-
gings. There were
no Kates or Mary
Janes among the
females, who were
plain Brown and
Smith, same as
the men. Gene-
rally, however,
the old lady simply
said, ‘Youbrute!’
She had a watch-
ful eye and a keen
sense of morality.
One morningearly
she thought she
saw Robinson
doing a get
through Jane
Smith’s bedroom window. She wasn’t sure,
but the pair were duly flogged and married by
order. The old parson afterwards remarked to
me that he couldn’t understand why the happy
couple fidgetted so during the ceremony. Strangest
thing about it all was that the first-born (a girl)
bore 40 stripes on her back. She of striped
back is now a leader of our society, but she never
went in for those low-necked dresses herself —the
gals affect them. Once the old party ordered me
to be flogged, and I reminded her of things. Then
she explained that she had forgotten I was
not one of the convicts. The old nigger-driver had
much coarse hair on her expansive chest, and
sneezed like a man ; but she was, they said, a very
highly-connected lady all the same.”
* * * •
“ F.H.R.” : There is a collection of
humpies on the Coonamble line called Balla-
doran. The principal industry is sleeper-chop-
ping, which is carried on for about nine months
every year for the Railway Department by con-
tract. Now, why can’t the Department simply
open the depot and let the men cut independently
at a fair price all the year round ? By insisting on
well-cut sleepers they would get the best of cutters,
and instead of a lot of humpies, which have to be
abandoned part of the year under the present
arrangement, a flourishing little town would spring
up. Rolling stones gather no shekels for them-
selves or the Railway Department. What we
want more than anything in this country is con-
stant work, so that people can settle down. I
haven’t been long enough in one place for the last
seven years to get my hair cut twice in it.
THE INSIGNIA OF HIS OFFICE.
Owing to the lofty aspirations of Victorian burglars the
police have been requested to pay particular attention to
the roofs of buildings. —News Item.
“ Who's that stuck-up lookin' Gussie?”
“ Sh', Pauli That ain't no Gussie. That's one
of them roof-spottin' coppers off dooty."
“Nulla”: Lately I bought some fowls.
J like poultry about the place. My fowls are of
the tame, Paddy’s Market type, and they do
their duty on the six working days, with an occa-
sional double-yolked egg to make up for Sunday,
Yet whenever I sing their virtues to members of
the fraternity I am met by the supercilious re-
joinder : “ Ah, yes ! not too bad. But you should
have some o’ mine” (procured at enormous expense
from England, Ireland, or elsewhere). _ “ Then
you’d have something to talk about.” I lie enthu-
siastically on behalf of my beloved barndoors, but
alas ! to no purpose, and it really seems that
unless I can get a fowl from behind the Hima-
layas or some place equally remote, I can never be
a full-blown member of the Most Powerful
Order of Perjured Poulterers.


TABLE SALT
contains the nourishing Phosphates which
are lacking in White Bread. By using
only “ CEREBOS ” SALT in the kitchen
and at table you get the same benefit as from
eating Brown Bread.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
HUFF
CHAINS
Those long, elegant chains that lend so much grace
to a woman’s attire.
We make in quantities. We do more—we show each
week the very latest development of them.
Plain Gold in the latest links. Gems set in many forms
from the latest “Barbaric’’ type to the most
elegant and refined.
We are cutting them very fine in price. We turn them
out so rapidly, it pays us to.
LONDON PRICES—plus Duty.
Muff Chains, with
Jewelled Slides, 5 )/-
to £9 9s.
We make these with
an exquisite finish.
g^3<
We make many designs,
qualities and weights of
Muff Chains,
SO/- upwards. |
London Prices
Plain Figures
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“Alec Z Be “Drifter’s” query (B.
28/9/’O5). Trucking some valuable mares, one got
her fore-feet caught in the door of the waggon. In
her struggles she fell between the loading stage
and truck, the weight of her body literally tearing
both hoofs off. Smearing the feet plentifully with
Stockholm tar, we sewed them up m pieces ot oat
sack. After being turned out for some months
new- hoofs formed and she was used for bringing
up the cows and working horses on the station tor
years, rearing several good foals before her cleatn.
Drover John O’Sullivan started from the
Gulf last April to overland 884 bullocks to Bunda-
berg, 1316 miles, dropping 200 of his charge at
Richmond en route. He only lost three beasts,
although the party encountered stages of 84 and 75
miles absolutely devoid of herbage, and one of 44
miles without water.
* * * *
“Pot Jostler, Jun.” : It is not generally
known that in Australia we have a unique speci-
men of the seal tribe (0. lobala). It is a hair seal,
but on the young cub is a distinct growth of under
fur, which disappears as the seal grows old. They
are becoming extinct, which is a pity, as they
form the connecting link between the hair and
fur seals. A few specimens are still to be seen in
King George’s Sound, but I do not know of any
other place in Australia where they congregate.
In years gone by numbers could be found on
Seal Rock, off Port Stephens (N.S.W.), but they
no longer frequent that spot.
■* * # *
It is alleged that turkeys do exceptionally
well on pricldy-pear. They will thrive on it with
very little additional food. This is the experience
of farmers in the pear-cursed country in Queens-
land. It is good news, but all the turkeys in the
universe could hardly keep down the prickly-pear
of one State. It has become a case of eating
forests from the root up.
DUPED.
PARSON : “A little bird told me you've been drinking
again."
THE ROUSEABOUT : “It's a loi, yer 'onner; there ain't
a bird in the district; the drought's killed 'em all."
“The Still- Walker ” : A good way to get
rid of a jumper or bulldog-ants’nest that is a little
too close to the humpy or tent to be pleasant, is to
get a piece of fresh raw meat, dip it in sugar, and
put it on the nest to be disposed of. In about two
minutes little black meat and sugar ants swarm all
over the meat and all over the nest. As soon as
a bull ant gets to windward of a sugar ant, and
gets a whiff, he’s off to tell his mates to shift camp
as a Lands Commission or a Butter Inquiry is
coming near. Next day there is not a bull or
jumper within miles of that nest. Did ever you
smell one of those big sugar ants? Never do if
you haven’t; because—phew !
FAR BACK IN OTHER DAYS.
MRS. COOCKIE : “ Hev some more bread and treacle, me pore man. I s'pect it's a long time
since you had a good dinner .”
DERELICT : “ It’s 43 years, madam, since I dined at the Australia Hotel."
“ S.” writes from beyond Camooweal
(North west Queensland) •
Thig p]ace is near The Ed „ e .' If anybody falls ov . er fche
Edge of Nowhere, it’s two years before yon hear the thud,
# + * *
“Will L.”: At Opawa, near Christchurch
(M.L.), there are some fish ponds and hatcheries
kept by an old identity, who swears that fish are
possessed of a high intelligence. There is no
doubt that his fish knoiv him. When strangers
approach the ponds they display great shyness;
when their owner comes, they swim close to the
edge. He talks to them in a high-pitched voice,
and when he bids those in the aquarium dance
the gorgeously-marked ramhow trout sink and
ns ® alternately with great rapidity, brushing their
scales against the glass. One small perch man
isolated pond shows signs of almost dog-like
affection at his approach, leaping clear of the
water and emitting a series of short barks,
“ Colm ” : Brown was off-sider
for the wood-hauler at a Queensland
sugar-mill. He came to my hut early
one morning breathing religion and
last night’s rum. Said he: “Sam’l,
it’s all right what the parson bloke
says about them miracles.” I gently
indicated my desire that he should
start at once for Sheol, but he per-
sisted thusly: “I bought a tin of
fresh ’errin’s at the store for tea, and
when I got to camp and opened it I
knew the parson bloke was right. I’d
never been able to swaller that yarn
about feedin’ the multitude with a few
small fishes, but, Sam’l, that tin of
’errins would have been too much for
fifty thousand multitudes. After they’d
had all they wanted there’d ’ave been
a whole tinful left.”
* » *
“Pint Pot”: Be “Drifter’s”
desire to find out if any bushman has
ever known a horse’s hoofs to grow
after completely crumbling away (B.
28/9/’O5). Once knew of a horse that
had been poisoned by some crank up
Braidwood (N.S.W.) way. The effects
of the poison evidently went to the
horse’s feet, causing the frogs to
crumble away ; and, in place thereof,
there grew hard masses, resembling
clods of earth or brown cannon balls. He was
turned out in a marshy paddock at Jerricknora.
Twelve months later he was chasing Boers, having
cost the Government seventeen sovereigns.
* • * -K
“ Wilbea u : Even in British Papua the
Ghinaman is at a discount. In 1858 the St. Paul,
from Hongkong to Sydney, was wrecked off Rus-
sell Island with 327 yellow men aboard. The de-
generate Papuan couldn’t see the force of letting
so much fresh meat go to waste, and used up the
aliens at the rate of three or four a day. The
islanders didn’t have to kill any pigs for over 80
days.
The patient camel, being a pleasant yam
from Westralia :
At Deep Well, Murchison (W. A.), on the afternoon of
6th Oct., Constable Dillon discovered in the bush the
mutilated body of the Afghan, Ameer Jan, who had been
missing for more than a week. Ameer Jan left his camp
on September 22 to round up a mob of milking camels,
and had not boon seen again. As a mad bull camel was
running loose near Deep Well in a frenzied state of
“must” and had taken charge of the milkers, other
Afghans considered it just as well to leave the mild-eyed
stock alone. Also in the circumstances they considered it
necessary to arm themselves with rifles and search for
Ameer Jan on horseback. They found the “ must ” old
bull, and as he was flecked with gouts of dried blood
about the chest and legs they were quite satisfied that
Ameer Jan was in Paradise. So they reported die matter
to the police at Cue, and from their praying mats in
the evening breathed a promise that they would
level up affairs with the bull when he got over his
tantrums. Dillon reported that the top of the
man’s head had been bitten off, the face was torn
away, and the left hand was missing. The body was
trodden into shapelessness, and the ground around it was
torn up with the violence of the brute’s fury. It isn’t
often a “must” bull-camel gets such a chance as this to
show what he really can do when he tries. The man who
potters around among camels in the cool months without
a loaded rifle courts his fate, and even so armed he wants
to be ready to fire promptly, for bulls on season arc
frequently cunning enough to lie in wait and show every
sign of amiability till the opportunity for murder arrives.
Cue is or was the most camel-cursed town in W.A.
Once before a mad bull that was blowing horrible red
blue-veined bladders out of his mouth in Austin-street,
knocked off his obscene caper long enough to bite the top
off the head of a passing Afghan, and then continued his
lewd pastime, while some other Afghans pulled the corpse
out of range. Some time afterwards that camel was shot
by a white camel-man while in the act of trying to
destroy a bullock-camel, and incidentally the white man
himself. About a dozen Afghans swore in court that
the deceased was a nice, kind, quiet camel that wouldn’t
hurt a worm. He was so tender-hearted that once when
a hen was killed he went and sat on the eggs himself.
The white man got mulct in damages, but an awful lot of
“ backsheesh ” changed hands over the case.
* * * *
“ Nellie G.” : Can anyone tell me why, in
the bush, “cow ” as an epithet is applied with such
contempt? If a ntan quarrels with his mate, if his
horse is shying, jibbing or misbehaving itself gene-
rally, in each case “cow” as a term of abuse is
equally applicable and insulting. To the feminine
mind this seems rather ridiculous, for, as a matter
of fact, the cow, of all animals, is the most deserv-
ing of approbation, the most dutiful and well-be-
haved. Perhaps, however, that is the reason for
the contumely with which man uses the term. Of
course the cow isn’t exactly a gay and dashing
beast, and that is, of all things, what the average
man desires to be. If you want to make him your
enemy for life, you have only to insinuate that you
think him harmless and tractable. The other day
I was watching a bullocky admonish a stubborn
leader. He used the whip freely and employed
the most forcible words in his comprehensive
and expressive vocabulary, all to no avail. At
last he called the animal a “cow”—a simple, un-
adjectived cow. It turned and regarded him re-
proachfully, with tears in its eyes, and then pro-
ceeded with a chastened spirit. A horse has been
known to commit suicide and a dog to run amok
after being called a cow, and if you try the asper-
sion on the house cat it is ten to one she will put
dead rats in the water-tank.
THE BILLYCANNIA ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From port and port the seaboard round
To arid central plain ;
From hut and homestead all the way
To There and Back Again ;
From Everywhere to Nowhere runs
The Billyeannia Road—
The weird pleasaunce of travellers
Who own no fixed abode.
A thirsty crew from Pint-o’-Beer ;
A crowd from Two-to-One ;
A sleepy lot from Lazy-Bones ;
A rich man’s only son.
A drifting host from Got-no-Push ;
A few from Sheer-bad-Luck ;
With odds and ends from God-knows-Where,
Make up the shiftless ruck.
Year in, year out, they saunter through
The land of Let-it-Slide,
And kindly all their wants allow
The Lord-knows-Whom provide.
Misfortune’s frown is half a smile
Unto that careless brood,
The very ills of life they grow
To look upon as good.
No man is king among them all,
But each man equals each ;
That which the new chum has to learn
The old hand loves to teach.
True Socialists, they share the luck
From day to day bestowed ;
A happy free republic is
The Billyeannia Road.
N.S.W.
W.L.D.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) loill be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Bryn Maur : Has been often—and better —
done Pedlar: An unskilful hand Ne’er-do-weel:
Interest hardly strong enough G. Knight.: Almost it
persuaded us Ariel: Very well written, but too much
spun-out and encumbered with detail 0.C.8.: Im-
practicable verse Archie H.: Very crude, but not
without promise Saretta : Reads like a bad fit of the
jim-jams... .X. Rays: Have no use for large “weekly
letters ” from anywhere on earth. . (Will decide about
weekly letters from places off the earth when we get a
sample, post paid.) R. 8.8. : None quite good enough.
“Bush Memories” is almost ricketty in its metre
J.A.D. : “ Jim ” is fairly graphic but has no central idea
Fitful: Too many weak spots... .Oktis : Ingenious,
but hardly printable Flashlight : Funny, but too
trilling A. Borig : Too slight and fragmentary
Accipiter : Quite out of our line... .F.B.Q. : Sorry it’s not
even yet up to the mark... .Kangaroo : Gone into basket
C.K. : Can’t guess what “ When I am Rich ” is driving
at K.E. : It hasn’t appeared yet. There is so
much matter on hand that the road to print is
rather gradual at times F.W. : “Impossible Task”
and “Careering” are both eminently fit to be read
at funerals. And even the saddest contribution
shouldn’t be written on both sides of the paper....
M. : “Nightmare” good in places, but rather too many
loose ends about it.... D.D. : You arrive at a high level of
m notony Hard Luck : Story about a Jew and a mine
rather du11... .Tartbelt: Don’t care to publish verse,
however good, which holds up the stockman as such an
incurably vicious “cuss.” Whenever we have met him
(sober) he seemed rather decent.... N. : The cry of the
person who pines to get back to the bush has been cried
so often... .A.L. : In the matter of “ Obit Mclntyre ”we
have d jcided not to rouse that very drunken person from
his grave... W.W. : “Geebung” very nearly got
thre igh. In fact, one false rhyme was mainly instru-
mental in turning the scale Alkine: “Raining in
London ” very unaccountable stuff. Why, because the
policeman turned up his pants at the feet, should the
butcher wander through the town with nothing on but a
shirt? H.F.T. : Second suggestion was too old
.J.B.L. : You have a fairly good touch, but the theme is
hackneyed G.C. : Too much straining after effect....
•lim P.: “Bairnie” doesn’t impress u5....E.C.N. : Too
flimsy B.L.H. : Some power, but little skill Kew
(Melb.) and Norman : Your Bird has not winged his last
flight. See “Sporting Notions.” Paroo : “Changes”
is a small, neat sentiment in verse. Would look well in
album Mars : Verse on the proposed Jap naval visit to
England too jerky, though it has some good points.
Sample of good points herewith :
L.M.R. : “Hatter’s Dirge” is very true, but the
metre is a fearsome scrambling over big rocks... .John
W.D. : “ Angel ” joke is older than Geo. 111. Is the other
equally venerable? Laldon : Good theme, inadequately
treated.... P. de L. : Workmanship inferior... .H.M. :
Doubtless true, but too weakly narrated H.H. :
Conventional style and stereotyped phraseology
Wisht Warner : Verse too steep ; and, by the \ ay, you
can’t spoon-stroll much along the banks of Melbourne’s
Yarra unless you like to stroll through bone-mills and
back yards Loony Dick: But U'e are not loony and
don’t go out of our way to illustrate unpleasant insect
subjects.... J.L.B.W. : The Bulletin is now agitating, as
hard as it knows how, for an effective defence system....
San Remo : We have the jackaranda tree in Sydney—
pretty plentifully too Kulpara: The drinking habits
of the broody turkey are “ off ” as a subject of discussion.
....Flo: Sorry none suitable Nym : A decent little
yarn spoilt by wordiness. Only a first-class yarn gets
there when it has to be dug out of a huge mass of ver-
biage. .. .The Stilt-Walker : Refuse to publish instructions
as to how to make an illicit still. We belong to the Good
Liquor Party W.E.W. : “ That Spot ”to hand. Even
if your best girl is dead, why not preserve the fact as a
secret sorrow instead of writing very moderate verses
about it A.B. : Tales and verse are either declined in
this column, or returned (if stamps accompany), or paid
for. No space to acknowledge pars. They are too
numerous J.B. (Charters Towers) : No: it was quite
another man.. ..V.F.P.A.: Hardly suitable Ukla: You
ask “ why Nature (usually so absolute in perfection) has
been guilty of an oversight in not providing horses,
cattle, sheep, etc., with the instinct to gallop about id
order to keep warm on a wintry day ? ” Well, Nature isn’t
such a complete idiot. Has it ever struck “Ukla” to
keep plump by eating his own fat? TeAroha: Excel-
lent sentiments, dull verse.. .Zob: Too trifling A.F.W,
(London); Sorry not in our line. Best chance is with
pars, about Australians or on matters specially touching
Australia.... Woodki : The name of the league you want
is “The Australian Brotherhood,” and the address is
Emmaville, N.S.W M.E.K. : A good idea, but metric-
ally too faulty... .The Hun : Obviously malicious. We
don't want to act the newspaper Hun or Vandal... .The
Hack : No ; it isn’t a fact. The Bulletin knows several
half-blood Maoris who certainly are not phthisical. But
it is true that half-castes are usually of a degenerate type,
physically, mentally, or morally... .Furnley M. : Un-
skilled treatment of a good idea MaryS. : A delicate
thought, crudely expressed and badly versified....
J.D.D. :No merit in any of them Sloper : Style too
sloppy A.T.W..: Smartly enough written, but the
theme '"s threadbare Beta: Pretty, but wholly undis-
tinguished G. Shannon :We have already noticed
that the mighty sweater Booth has been “presented
with the freedom of the city of London.” That sort of
thing only comes to the Booths of this world when they
grow very rich, and are blessed with the recognition of
Edward VII Unsuitable : H.8.J., Chip, M.L., W.M.M.,
J.K.S., Sydolt.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Ailath : Merely one person calling another a worm,
and the other person retaliating with the name of
another insect D.J.T. : “The Tug” is a joke that The
Bulletin illustrated years ago. Also this paper fancies
(and hopes) that it invented the joke W.M. : Sketch
not very bad, but the airy jest attached to it is rather
incomprehensible Chick: Sketch of small Chow and
large “John” declined E.H. : “First Shall be Last”
doesn’t impress us much S.M. : Farmer Green’s corn
isn’t a fit subject for illustration Gnat: Quite hope-
less Unsuitable : Fred S., A.E.G.
The Lion sat on the white chalk cliffs, looked o’er the
foaming blue,
And sucked the tip of a thoughtful tail with a kind of
doubtful chew.
As the Jappy ships came steaming on in their cocky,
uppish way,
He swallowed a lump with a kind of gulp and went to say
“ Good day ! ”
The Lion said to the little Jap he hadn’t done too bad,
The tune he’d played to the dancing Bear was one that
made him glad ;
But the Monkey got some rooster quills, and fixed them
in a row
To the freer end of his long backbone, and then began to
crew.


“The cook was a great tyrant at
Government House. No one except
Lady Jersey dared make suggestions to
him. When she was once away, the
cook served midday dinner for a week
for Lord Ancram, Mr. Goschen, the
English governess, the German gover-
ness, and the four children. A cutlet
fpr each person, and one over, was the
fare.—S./W. Herald.
Her son, then a boy of seven,
was coached in French, Latin, Ger-
man, and English. He found it
difficult to spell in all languges
correctly. The boy looked a dignified
little mite in tall hat and Eton suit.”
S. M. Herald.
“ Lady Jersey’s actions in her home
life were well-planned and systemati-
cally carried out. History she thought
the best study for girls.
Her young daughters,
when in Sydney, learned
English history con-
tinuously.”— S.M, <
Herald.
<*4
■ >\o <> ««■»’
V*
'
V e o" ‘
“ Young girts pursuing a University career were of
special Interest to Lady Jersey, They used to ‘sit
at her feet,’ on the several occasions when she in-
vited them to Government House, and learn wisdom,
and the beauty of spiritual endeavor.”— lbid.
The titled brand of “ spiritual endeavor ” la a very
superior brand of endeavor indeed.
mtL fy/ “ T* l ® Jersey family
A' /used to create a deal
H 'yy of interest in the church
mg, at Moss Vale, where they
WjSp'' j-' stayed for the summer.
Lord Jersey used to read the
lessons. When the collection-
/ plate was passed round, each of
his girls dropped in a threepenny
bit. This seemed a small sum for a
Governor’s daughters to contribute.
Lady Jersey pointed out that they were
brought up, according to the commands
of scripture, to give a tenth of all they
possessed. The girls had half-a-crown
for their weekly pocket money.”
- Ibid .
~ . \ gard f n party was once given for the University girls Contain I eisrh
(Lady Jersey s brother) taught dozens of girls to play hi Wards and nnfv
when they poked boles in the cloth. ’’-Ibid P * ' ™ ’ and only sm,,ed
A WELCOME TO THE JERSEYS.
"Sydney Morning Heralds own special Jeames has, by way of a welcome back to Lord and Lady Jersey now re=visiting
Australia, published an article on their home life in N.S. Wales, from which the above extracts are culled. Not to be outdone in
loyalty "Hop" adds a few illustrations.


*' WM^
fresh wjonKeys
Wfs • CAt "»v be
gubstTltled fov worrr
0 «r hvmA* on*s ! a
/ 0??
lisoK -^'.
\.%k'
tjliier Kerr M obj ec/s
"to "fife of Misery becAose
VTwi ll ‘ dry ujillbe °f
M|Sm benevolence *
MBiiMMI
violent buU
btrj»«-r»«l evfnwtf J|
jm
A\^r
*«*4~
goino honre f*"» s*■ 6 *
*
\1 XJ\ j ' '**■ •* • l .
(plfei?:— ! you jbr'D/- £»7J>irfc**
JilyT" lfyen-7 u$ |
f?e ou i"
I tn ported'
Ijy Sr}<? BeHinp
y Clubs At'eejtpliin?
“ All rntmDet's Wlfo **
St/sj>eeted of
bei™ in^towel; wilij
* Hie police -
3)nnK', Sir? Ifa/4rcir bishop
R«v MtjerChrKe Sty- "if |*»j>le would M
Ijoly lives &We ojf drinK We would’nrneed
fjospitaJs »X All • * E/Atily- or Archbishops
|Key Mo UCo : E.Ve« you c&*»f" do wittfouT'
- (juVnor,-~- we A** Nn Hje shew
! ”
Mori
V
TJ?e one
"to-day is >7©f A u strAliA
fortjje
but" -lb o|>cm our gates
wide Afy/eleorne
Anybody.-
l>AtK -Troirj Hinged
. aWended A tjomkr of-
f my Kef's k Says Avs r
i$ ii 7 Very odoUK.''
$ Only I of tfj'e Z?d*s cruisers Rid for
7 AVe. Arrived &■2otfjeri Are dolled
by enjirm down.—
Job Lot*;
—I H>s dibs’.— Poni'jou'f^’inK,C,«r>'tie»^«n 1 I *.
ought" to nAVe goT in lAst" Senate election
AostrA!iAs Critics ; 'Aye itjA'f'we does - nrjA ,s ter !
THINGS OF THE MOMENT.


gsdf
G-O TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Boujht. Price Lists Gratis.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89 C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Peter Close, it is said, vacates his position
in Sydney and goes to London shortly.
Someone said of the late Edward Langton
(Vic.), in his mid-way political career, that “he
rose from a position of precarious importance to
one ol assured insignificance. ”
Pauli, the mining director who won the
Charters Towers seat as an Independent, went to
the Opposition cross-benches when he entered Q.
Assembly.
Justice Heydon, of N.S.W., is a bitter
man. The other day, when a barrister wanted
time, his honor refused, telling him, if he hadn’t
read up the case, to fall back upon his natural
intelligence.
In 1877 William Overend, of Terang (Vic.),
passed out leaving an estate valued for probate at
£324. On Monday, 23rd inst., Justiee Holroyd
was applied to for leave to deal with a sum of over
£4OOO realised from the sale of a portion of the real
estate.
One of the proprietors of a daily newspaper
which condemns betting on horse races, but pub-
lishes the betting lists, defended the position, the
other day at Randwick, by asking, “Should a
newspaper which condemns a Government refuse
to publish the speeches of its members ? ”
The death of John Curtain, member of the
Vic. Leg. Assembly from ’7O to ’77, recalls that he
once electrified the House by saying, “ Of course,
Mr. Speaker, we are all tending towards the same
jail.” The House guessed what he meant, but
some members wished he hadn’t said it.
Thomas Walker, journalist, spiritualist,
and many other things, who for some time repre-
sented Northumberland after a hazy and scram-
bling fashion in the N.S. Wales Assembly, has
been elected on the Labor ticket as Parliamentary
blatherer for Kanowna by a more than two to one
vote.
Australia has had some shady politicians,
but when was an Australian member or ex-
member charged, like Watt, with conspiracy to
murder? Also it is difficult to remember when
one got 14 years, like Jabez Balfour. At his
worst the Australian M.L.A. has been mostly a
short sentence man.
Ages of Victorian Supreme Court Judges
with date of appointment:—John Madden, aged
61; appointed 1893. Edward Dundas Holroyd
will be 78 in January ; appointed 1881. Thomas
A’Beckett, 68; appointed 1886. Henry Edward
Agincourt Hodges, birth uncertain, called to the
Bar 1873, became a Judge in 1890. John Henry
Hood, aged 60 in June; became a Judge in 1891.
Captain Crowther, recently imprisoned by
the Moors, and whose life was for a few days
worth anything from twopenn’orth of gin to a
principality, is a brother of Mr. S. H. Crowther,
of Dungog (N.S. W.). Another brother is colonel
of a regiment in India, and a fourth of the family
(Major Crowther) died recently in Maoriland.
They are grand-nephews of Nelson.
The smallest member of the S. A. Assembly
is lawyer Mitchell. He was speaking of the evils
of cigarette smoking and narrating his own
experience when Archibald sardonically inter-
jected : “ They stunted your growth all right.”
Some people allege that Mitchell’s hatred of
the evil thing dates from the time when some-
one said that he and his cigarette made two sides
of a square.
PUGILISM DISCUSSED IN N.S.W.
PARLIAMENT.
“ It's a dirty, low subject, and I'm sur-
prised that it should be brought up in such
company. No decent man in his...senses,”
&c., &c.
A few November birthdays : Admiral
Rawson, 620 n the 4th ; President Stirling, M.L.C.
(S.A.), 56 on the sth ; John See, 54, and W.
M'Millan, 55 on the 14th ; Senator Guthrie, 47 on
the 17th ; Lord Northcote, 59 on the 18th ; Arch-
bishop O’Reily (S.A.), 59 on the 19th; Senator
Dobson, 64 on the 24th ; Senator Playford, 68 on
the 25th ; Mark Twain, 70 on the 30th.
Even that pushing, brainy, little woman’s
advocate, Vida Goldstein, seems to have other
yearnings at times. The other day she told the
National Council of Women that she hoped a cer-
tain committee would get through its business
speedily. “Life,” she pleaded, “seems to me
one long succession of committee meetings.”
“ H.” : It’s as good as a feast to see Vic.
Premier Bent at one. He goes through all the
items on the menu as if they were clauses in a
favorite Bill, and the onlookers can hear him
muttering to himself. “Clause one, Horse
Duffers. That Horse Duffers stand as printed;
carried. Clause two, Soup; sub-clause one,
Turtle. That sub-clause Turtle stand as printed ;
carried. Sub-clause two, Con-som. That sub-
clause Con-som stand as printed ; carried.” And
so on. True to Parliamentary procedure, Bent
leaves the preamble till the last, and then empties
the dish of olives on his plate, until there is a
regular Mount of Olives before him. It is one of
the most interesting things in practical politics to
see Bent reduce a hostile majority of olives to
submission.
Premier Carruthers stated in N.S.W.
Assembly last week that it was Captain Cook
who discovered Australia. Even Thomas Bent
knows more than that at times. If there is going'
to be a race between the two over the barren
wastes of ignorance, The Bulletin will be almost
inclined to back Thomas, provided he promises
not to sing by the way.
Possibly the oldest Australian native is
Willia-m Byrne, of Princes-street, Sydney, who was
born in 1808, the year of the rum revolution, or
Bligh rebellion, and celebrated his 97th birthday
last week. He was in business as a bootmaker on
Brickfield Hill in the thirties, when the old toll-
bar stood near the intersection of George and
Goulburn streets. The Byrnes are a long-lived
family ; three of the six brothers and sisters died
respectively at 79, 87, and 94, and a fourth within
five months of the century.
You can’t kill some men. Shannon, the
watchman at the Queen Cross battery, Charters
Towers, whom the recent explosion didn’t blow
up, used to be a Gympie pugilist, and the punch-
lngs he got then were baby-taps to what he has had
since. At the notorious Tarangaba mine, near
Yeppoon (Q.), a shot accidentally exploded, tear-
ing his arm. In 1900, timber fell on him in the
Kelly’s Queen Block mine, ripping the other arm
and crushing his ribs. A year later, in the same
mine, a shot drove a GJoz. stone into his chest.
And he is still moving round looking for trouble.
Journalist Thos. Corrigan, who recently
died, aged 79, at Subiaco (W.A.), began his
Australian career on the Mercantile Adver-
tiser, a Sydney commercial print owned by
J. F. Burns. Next he joined the Cumberland
Argus, with John Ferguson and the late Garnet
Walch as colleagues, and later on helped to crack
the Stockwhip. In the early 70’s he went to
Newcastle, where he stood by the Pilot for
awhile, and afterwards became part proprietor,
with Hugh M ‘Dicken, of the Chronicle. In
April, 1876, the Newcastle Herald was born,
and Corrigan became its editor. The Chronicle
died the same year.
Miss Hordern and Mr. Anthony Hordern
were, atlatest advices, with other Australians visit-
ing the lakes of Killarney. This is Anthony
Hordern the fourth. It is just 83 years since the
first Anthony Hordern appeared in Sydney. His
wife started a millinery shop in King-street,
between Pitt and Castlereagh streets, Anthony
the first doing business as a coach-builder
next door. The second Anthony became a
draper in George-street. The third followed up
the business, adding to it large railway specula-
tions in Westralia, in the midst of which fie died.
It is his son who has lately been considering
the Irish scenery.
Editor Philip Mennell, of the British
Australasian, recently dead in London, was a
native of Newcastle-on-Tyne. He was admitted
as an English solicitor in 1875, but abandoned the
law and came to Australia, where he trod the
Inky Way. He founded the Bairnsdale (Vic.)
Advertiser, and in 1882 became sub-editor of
Melbourne Age. Later he returned to London
and for six years was connected with the Age’s
cable agency there. He made three further visits
to Australia—in 1891 as London Daily Chronicle
correspondent; in 1895 as Times ditto; and in
1900 for the Morning Post. His best known
literary work is his “ Dictionary of Australasian
Biography,” besides which he published “The
Coming Colony,” a series of Westralian articles
reprinted from the Daily Chronicle ; a bio-
graphy of Lord John Manners, and a volume en-
titled “In Australian Wilds.”
There is an elderly business lady in a
Victorian country town who has never been a
biscuit-toss from her front door for over 30 years.
They erected a clock and band rotunda in the
town with much noise five years ago, and
she is the one person in the district who
hasn’t seen it, though it is only in the next
block. The other day, while making
out her accounts, a bright glare
attracted her eye, and looking
through the window she saw a
house in flames. Calling a boy
in the shop to go and ring the
firebell, she returned placidly
to her ledgers. She didn’t
even go out to look at the fire.
“Gr.” : K.C.M.Gr. -eese
are_ not the only people who
delight in looting the alphabet.
A girl I know signs all her
correspondence, private and
otherwise, Glorianna Maggs,
A.T.C.L., said letters inform-
ing all and sundry that Miss
Maggs is the proud possessor of some small musi-
cal “degree.”
The Right Rev. A. F. Winnington-
Ingram, Bishop of London, who has been de-
nouncing the fall in the British birth-rate and
“ the miserable doctrine of comfort” as the cause
of it, is an unmarried and childless person aged
47. His address is at Fulham Palace, and he
belongs to two clubs, and his favorite recreations
are golf, cycling and fives. He tries to dodge the
more aggravated forms of discomfort on £lO,OOO a
year. In his more frivolous moments he signs
himself “A. F. London.”
“ H.” : Premier Bent of Victoria has two
tags to his speeches that never fail him. Since
coming into office, he has never yet addressed a
public gathering without remarking, “ And now,
with good seasons and good rains and the blessings
of divine Providence, we can look forward to
great prosperity for this great State,” finishing up
with, “May you all live long and prosper.”
Lately, Tommy is starting to turn on the loyal
tap, and, for the last 34 speeches, has introduced
after “this great State,” the sentence, “and it is
a great State —with all these millions of acres
given to us by our Good King without a blister.
I say without a blister. By our Good King and
his mother, the Good Queen. May you all live
long and prosper.”
Ex-Judge Boucaufc, of S.A., has brought,
out his long-planned book on “The Arab, the
Horse of the Future,” with a preface by Walter
Gilbey, to show that Australia is about the best
country in the world for breeding purposes. The
old Judge has not lost his trick of vigorous
language :
I emphatically disclaim any desire in this book to
interfere with betting-, or in any way to denounce betting
or betting-men. They may bet till they are blind as far
as I am here concerned. They may risk a thousand
pounds to a penny as to which sparrow will first hop oil a
post. My object is to show on the authority of racing-
men themselves that the present style of betting, or the
present style of racing, is fast ruining, if it has not
already actually ruined, the English horse. . . . The
sprinter is a huge mistake, except for sprinting, and the
pure Arab of the desert is unequalled—also except for
sprinting—in any station of life in which it may please
God to call him, ... It will of course be said that I am
interested in the subject as an owner of Arabs, and there-
fore that I am not a reliable authority. That is right
enough. As I said, lam interested, and do not claim to
be an authority.
INSTRUCTIONS TO A DEPUTY-OPPOSI-
TION LEADER.
A favorite dodge of Deputy Opposition Leader Joe Cook
is to ask for a declaration of Government policy on any-
thing and everything.
REID: “ Get into this chair, and when you see
those two fellows trying to do the business of
the country just jibber and chatter like an
idiot. Any drivel will do. I'll be back anon.”
Premier Bent blows his own trumpet
with the assurance of a whole German band. In
the course of one short recent speech, the report
of which occupies about six inches in the Argus,
Tommy claimed that he “had read everything of
every clime,” that he could give a display of
calisthenics quite as good as that of the pretty
girls who had just performed, that he “knew ail
about Thunderbolt,” that he “ could recite well,”
that he was a good speller, that he once made a
lot of money for charities by lecturing on India,
and that he was a judge of paintings because he
was “an artist himself.” By this time Bent had
not nearly exhausted Bent, but he had exhausted
everybody else.
Elijah Bunn is an unusual kind of peti-
tioner at the door-mat of Maoriland Parliament.
Some time ago one Sewell, defendant in a small
civil case, blew himself up with dynamite in the
door-way of the courthouse at Murchison. Bunn’s
case is that Sewell was going to blow himself up
inside the court and slay everybody, that Bunn
got him outside so that the damage was miti-
gated, that Bunn was consequently close to
Sewell when Sewell blew up, and by reason of
that proximity he lost an eye in the disaster, and
that his services in saving his Worship and the
audience should be recognised. Which seems
very fair logic—even though petitioner’s name is
Bunn.
Mr. Walter Trafford, whose grievance
against the N.S.W. Pharmacy Board for refusing
to register him as a chemist is one of the matters
which occupy the attention of a Parliamentary Select
Committee, objects to The Bulletin’s inclusion of
that matter with others as “petty.” He points out
that the refusal of the Pharmacy Board to register
him tends to deprive him of his living ; that in a
court of law lie has successfully upheld the
right of his claim; that the Board refuses
to be bound by that verdict, and that his only
remedy now is a Select Committee. Certainly,
Mr. Trafford’s grievance (from an examination of
the papers) is a big one. The Pharmacy Board’s
attitude to him is singularly unjust, and there
should be a remedy. But that doesn’t vitiate the
argument, which was that Parliament should have
a small standing specially.-paid committee or
officer to inquire into such matters. Further,
Parliament shouldn’t be so foolish as to create a
board which is so much above the law that
special Parliamentary interference is needed to
correct its injustices.
Andrew Seton Chisholm, pastoralist, who
died at Goulburn (N.S.W.) lately, aged 72, was
the son of a Sydney native born in the city (or
town then) in 1796. His grandfather, James
Chisholm, is understood to have been connected
with the 102nd Regiment, and on retiring kept
the Thistle Inn, in George-street, where now
stand Bradley’s auction rooms. The house, which
had a garden in front, as most George-street houses
had in those days, afterwards became the head-
quarters of the Bank of New South Wales. The
first Chisholm is said to have secured the George-
street property as a matter of barter, one authority
giving 4h acres as the area. The price was 12doz.
port wine, six gallons gin, two pieces of broad-
cloth, 251bs. of American tobacco, one chest of tea,
two bags of sugar, one set of harness for gig, one
saddle and bridle, one single-barrelled fowling-
piece, two canisters of gunpowder and four bags
of shot. The military officer who sold his interest
in the land was considered to have had the best
of the bargain. The family was also much in-
terested in the Eveleigh estate, which Henry
Parkes purchased at a big figure for railway pur-
poses. The unearned increment did a good deal
for the Chisholm family.
Henry Weedon is the gaud-Mayor elect
of Melbourne city. He possesses a certain amount
of sense which he has shown in municipal politics
by a discreet silence when another man would
havebrayed. He was once upon a time a decorator
and perpetrated much more or less calamitous
adornment on the interior of Melbourne
Town Hall, the interior of the National
Museum, and on Government House when the pale
aristocratic Hopetoun came out to fete the Yorks.
Then Weedon got into some excellent mining
gambles and accumulated several sackfuls of
sovereigns. _ With them he bought a big photo-
graphic business and accumulated more sackfuls.
He was one of the syndicate that bought
the wrecked P. and O. liner Australia for
a song and made—and is still making—ridiculous
profits out of the deal. He is most noble grand
buckjumper of the mysterious order of Free-
masons, and a something or other of the Man-
chester Unity Oddfellows. These things all
help him to the. Mayoral chair. Besides,
Pleasance had found the game too expensive, and
couldn’t be induced to stand again. This left three
possibles—Burston, who makes money, and is a
colonel; Hennessey, who makes bread, and is a
husk; and Weedon. Burston was favorite, but
he scratched for half-a-dozen reasons, chief of
which is that he owns a jolly pretty daughter, and
wants to take her to the Cold Country. A care-
ful canvass of the council yielded only five votes
in Hennessey’s favor. So Hennessey retired,
and on the 9th November Henry Weedon will be
invested with the honor of spending a couple of
thousand sovereigns for the glory of the citv of
Melbourne.
Archpriest Therry,
whom the Balmain
(N.S.W.) Council has re-
fused to honor with a
local monument, was a
picturesque figure of the
old times, and did a lot
of pioneering work in the
attempt to civilise Bal-
main and other savage
dependencies of the Set-
tlement. He was the
first Government-accre-
dited R. C. priest to Aus-
tralia. Several had pre-
ceded him, some as con-
victs and others with par-
tial authorisation, but
Father Therry, as a con-
sequence of a debate in
the House of Commons,
carried with him the
despatch of the Earl of
Bathurst, entitling him to the full exercise
of his functions and the Imperial salary of
£lOO a year. He first attacked the savages, the
ancestors of the Balmaniacs, in a wooden
hut in Pitt street, Sydney, and, according to
accounts, he took sackfuls of hair off them and
applied plentiful soap to their exposed parts.
Some people never forgive. Government House
of the day called Tlierry, in effect, a socialist and
member of the Labor party, and stopped his
salary ; but the Imperial Government, on receipt
of the news, ordered the salary to be restored and
back payments to be made good. Father Therry
was spiritual boss, so far as the R.C. interest
went, of all Australia, and consequently had quite
a commodious parish. He was a bit literary, but
some of his manuscripts show that his spellng was
eccentric, and as he was an Irishman (born in
County Cork), of course he wote verses, most of
which are deservedly forgotten.
The motor car which carries Charlie Angas,
of S. A., round at a fiendish pace cost £lOOO. If
that car rushed past the grave of old John
Howard Angas, and he knew who was in it, he
would rise and throw clods after his son.
The name of the late Pat. M'Caughan,
remembered as Melbourne’s most decorative citi-
zen, cropped up t’other day at a sitting of the
Police Commission :
Robt. M'Hugh, ex-inspector of police, who retired in
May, 1903, after 32 years’ service, said that he had been
engaged in licensing work, and had been greatly inter-
fered with in his work. The late Patrick M'Caughan,
who owned an hotel in Flinders-street, came to witness
and asked him to help him to put the licensee, a man
named Anis, out of the hotel. Witness turned up the
register and found that there was nothing there to
justify his interference. Mr. M'Caughan demanded that
witness should interfere, and witness replied, “ I won’t
do it. If he has committed a breach of the Act we will
take action, but I will not do it on mere hear-
say.” Mr. M'Caughan became quite offended, and
left. Apparently he saw Mr. O’Callaghan, as shortly
afterwards witness was called into "the Chief Com-
missioner’s office. Mr. O’Callaghan complained that he
had been offensive to Mr. M‘Caughan. Witness detailed
the conversation that had taken place, and Mr. O’Callaghan
said, “Yes, it practically agrees with what he complains
of, but I don’t think it is wise for you to run counter to
Mr. M’Caughan, who is a very wealthy and influential
man.” The end was that witness got a lecture, and was
told that he should be more courteous, more polite and
more conciliatory, that he should not offend Mr.
M'Caughan in particular, as he was a man of very consider-
able influence.
Recently died, in England, ex-police
trooper J. A. G. McHale, who, in 1865, captured
bushranger John Dunn, near Canon bar (N.S.W.).
Dunn was then almost the last survivor of the
merry men, who included Gilbert, Ben Hall,
Gardiner, Peisley, Bourke, O’Malley, and others,
THE CARDINAL'S KIND
FRIEND, THE REV.
DIG BY BERRY , of Mel-
bourne.
and was keeping
pretty close.
McHale, with two
other troopers,
stationed near
Canonbar, went
after a “ wanted ”
half-caste, named
Yellow George,
who lived in a hut
on the _ Martha-
guy River. On
their arrival,
George and an-
other man ran
for the bush.
McHale pursued
the second man,
in whom he re-
cognised Dunn,
and shot him
with his revol-
ver through
the loins, at
40 yards.
Dunn fell,
and Mc-
Hale, think-
ing hi m
dead, in-
cautiously
approach-
ed, when
the ’ranger
rolled over
I and shot
him in the
groin. Dunn
recovered
sufficiently
to be hanged
at Darling-
hurst on
March 19,
1866. McHale
retired on a
pension of £1
Is. per week,
and returned
to Ireland,
where, later on, he inherited a small property.
He “ blewed ” the property, but his pension kept
him out of the workhouse.
A. R. Addison, M.L.C., of S. Australia,
used to fill the Anglican pulpit in a country town
every Sunday till he heard that a lady parishioner
had openly stated she would rather stay at home
for the term of her natural life than hear him
preach. The following Sunday he frankly told
his congregation that thereafter they would have
to get the local cash draper or the chemist to don
the night-gown on alternate Sundays, he having
decided to hold forth but once a fortnight so that
the lady parishioner might have a chance to
dodge him.


ALPV=>
THOSE.
■pocvß.
gs
dfg
TheGa
Once more to THE WICKETS,
dear friends, once more
To swell the record of
MATCHES won!
In CRICKET there’s nothing so
becomes a PLAYER
As MODEST STILLNESS and
HUMIDITY.
—Shakespeare slightly altered.
Is it NOT TRUE of AUSTRALIAN CRICKETERS that
the MORE RUNS they make, and the MORE MATCHES
they win, the LESS THEY SAY about it ?
And, likewise, ANOTHER GOOD THING with those
same AUSTRALIAN CRICKETERS is that they, ALMOST
ALL OF THEM,
Buy their CricKeting; Gear
£/ & AT £? &
Anthony Hordern’s.
Such a Grand Choice of Favorite BATS
and BALLS is not to be found elsewhere.
P. Dark and Son’s Patent Cork-Cased Handle, with splendid spring:, specially selected, 24s
Wisden’s Best, with Crawford Patent Exceller Handle, selected, 25s
Wisden’s Celebrated, with Crawford Patent Exceller Handle, 21s
Wisden’s Lord’s Driver, 17s 6d
P. Bryan’s Registered President, “best selected,” 21s
F. Bryan’s President, ordinary, 18s.
s. d.
Dye’s Champion, made by an Australian for Australians .. .. .. 20 0
Sykes’ Yorkshire Driver 25 0
Warsop’s All-Cane Match Bat, with Conqueror Patent Handle,
thoroughly reliable 20 0
Warsop’s Superior, All Cane 156
Nicholl’s Automatic Handle 22 0
Grimwood’s All-Cane and Rubber .12 6
Ayres’ International 20 0
Bartlett’s Favorite, with the Celebrated Repercussive Handle,
Specially Made For Australia 196
Bartlett’s Patent Compressed All-Cane Handle, selected IS 6
Gunn and Hoore’s Autograph Bats, extra selected .. .. each 27 0
Stuart Surridge Rapid Driver, specially selected each 24 0
Duke’s Willow King Bat each 20 0
Duke’s Century Bat, Cork Handle each 16 6
Duke's Best Practice Bats, Cork Handle each 10 0
Shaw and Shrewsbury’s Patent Double-Spliced, All Cane .. ..196
„ „ „ No. 2, All Cane, Match 13 6
„ ~ ~ No. 3, All Cane, Special Practice .. .. 8 6
Bussey’s AlDCane. Practice 5 6
Bussey’s Demon Driver 150
Patent Grip Rubber Bat Handles 10
CRICKET BALES
WHOSE. QUALITY Has been proved
on many a WELL-FOUGHT FIELD.
s. d.
Duke’s Renowned Cricket Balls—Match 5 6
„ ~ „ „ Picked, stamped “ P.K.D.” .. 6 3
Wisden’s Match 4 3
Wisden’s Crown 6 3
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
Palace Emporium, SYDNEY.
15he
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE, SOCIETY LIMITED.
REPORT BY THE DIRECTORS in connection with the
SIXTH ACTUARIAL INVESTIGATION of the Affairs of the Society.
THE Directors have the pleasure to present to the Members their Report in connection with the Actuarial Investigation for the Quinquen-
nium ended 31st December, 1904, together with the Report of the Actuary of the Society.
In the previous Quinquennial Report the Directors stated that they deemed it desirable in the interests of the Society, in view
of the fall in the rate of interest throughout the world, to make provision for valuing on a per cent, basis, and the present valuation has
accordingly been made strictly on the basis of that rate. Since the last Investigation a new Table of Mortality has been compiled, designn ted
the Om, which is reckoned to be the most reliable experience of mortality among assured lives. The effect of its employment in the valuation, as
compared with the former standard used, is to increase the reserve liability. They are gratified to be able to announce that notwithstanding
the decrease in the assumed rate of interest, and the employment of a new Table of Mortality involving increased reserves, the surplus dis-
closed by the Actuary’s investigation at the end of the Quinquennium, amounts to the substantial sum of £261,541 6S 6d.
After a careful and complete investigation of all the securities on the books of the Society they decided to recommend that out of
the disclosed surplus a sum of £50,000 be set aside for addition to the Investment Fluctuation Fund, bringing it up to £123,858 3s. 9d.
An amount of £211,541 6s. 6d. is thus left for appropriation, and they recommend that this sum be divided amongst policies
entitled to participate.
During the period under review the Directors have continued the policy previously adopted of consolidating the business and
strengthening the position of the Society, the increase to the number of policies existing being over 3000, and the increase to the premium
income over £20,000.
They have to record with deep regret the death, on the 9th September, 1905, of Mr. Robert Thomson, F.1.A., who was connected
with the Society since its inception, originally as Actuary, and afterwards as Consulting Actuary. They desire to place on record their appre-
ciation of the services he rendered to the Society.
They congratulate the Members on the strong position of the Society in respect to its reserves, and look forward with hopeful antici-
pation to a considerable improvement in the Bonus results in the future.
HENRY HENTY, Chairman.
LESLIE J. PARK, General Manager.
Melbourne, 18th October , 1905.
PROGRESS OF THE SOCIETY, 1873=1904.
Policies Issued—9B,46l assuring £29,270,926
Amounts Paid to Policyholders 3,515,331
Accumulated Funds at December 31, 1904... 2,920,210
Claims Paid immediately on Proof of Death and Title.
Premiums may be Paid at any Office of the Society in
the Colonies or in the United Kingdom.
Policies are kept in force out of Surrender Value so long
as there is sufficient to pay One Quarterly Premium.
The Society is established throughout on the Federal Principle, and thus secures for its Members the Widest Scope for Remunerative Investment.
Chief Office for New South Wales
A. ROSS HILLER, Secretary.
LESLIE J. PARK, General Manager.
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


to H
Charles Heidsieck
BU M S
EXTRA DRY
OK
u
FINEST EXTRA Q?
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
HIGH- CLA SS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN * OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
sdf
“grav'enei'ies”
RAINCOATS.
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
P.D. The New
(Jorsets
For Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . <, •
A WOMAN'S LETTR.
Sydney October 31, 1905.
My Dear Arini,—
Henceforth, if you are one who “considers
herself a lady,” and if you are about to marry,
you will decide upon a quiet wedding. All the
best people in England who are marrying, and
the majority of the wise virgins here, are foregoing
as much as possible the old-fashioned and rather
vulgar “ splash ” of an ostentatious wedding cere-
mony. There is also an increasing tendency to do
away with even the reception, and it is becoming
more and more common to read notices of
weddings with only the immediate relatives
of the contracting parties present. Even
the wedding dress is often dispensed with,
the travelling dress being substituted. The pair
that have been Breathed upon don’t want to spend
a tithe of their honeymoon cutting awful cake and
listening to speeches when they’ve got a walking
tour, or motor journey, or fishing expedition on
hand.
Yesterday the first petal of the trefoil of naval
weddings was pulled off. Miss Moseley, of
Neutral Bay, married a Euryalus minor officer
named Townsend, one of whose glories is that of
being son of an admiral. Miss Gollin’s wedding
to another man-o’-war, one Blackwood, follows
to-day. He is a sprout of the Dufferin
family. And Miss Reading, to Surgeon
Mummery, occurs to-morrow. The Flagship
carries these days a chronic wreath slung
high above its funnel. Miss Jennie Brennan and
her assistants, who went on board with the morn-
ing milk to put the hundred yards of wreathing
round the hoop-iron that skeletons that wreath,
were afterwards entertained by the presently-to-
be bridegrooms. Wondering trippers on the ferry
boats—“persons not in society”—think it is a
new form of signalling, especially as it is lighted
up at night. There is also, I’m told (on unreliable
authority), a knot of orange blossom on the
anchor. One of the strongest reasons why we
should have a fleet of our own lies in the fact that
our girls might then marry the captain of the first-
class cruiser Boggabri or the first brass-bound
Australian lieutenant of the Thargomindah, and
so keep the good Australian money in its own
country.
The Flag-Lieutenant, on behalf of Lady Fan-
shawe, is requesting a large number of Somebodies
and Anybodies to R.S.V.P. to invitations to an
“At Home” to be given by the Lady-o’-war on
Thursday.
A reverend gentleman named Taylor has re-
lighted that ancient fire of controversy, the do-
mestic servant problem, and made it again a burn-
ing and a crackling institution. Controversy
between mistress and maid rages in the D.T.
more furiously than the heathen, who, I believe,
are often too lazy to rage. Servants’ complaints
are mainly of long hours—l 4 on an average—over-
work, insufficient time for meals, an almost abso-
lute lack of leisure, and they demand that the
eight-hours system be made to apply. The
missuses who reply are solid in their assertions
of considerate treatment of their employees.
Maids taking part in the discussion con-
tradict one another. Tne efficient general
housemaid or cook need not stay in a situation
where she is treated with such injustice, say some
of the less hostile Mary Janes. A hundred
considerate employers yearn for her services.
Not a doubt but that in many second-rate hotels
and lodging housbs the servants work long and
hard. In private houses they won’t and don’t. I
know personally a cheerful intelligent woman of
thirty, a capital all-round worker who is “general ”
in a boarding house where there are eight boarders.
From six in the morning to nine or ten at night she
runs at her work. She daren’t walk, she says, or she
would “get behind.” Her employer is almost
as keen a worker. The general was offered a
situation at the same wage—l2s.—in a household
of two ladies, and she replied, “I’d die of
quietness. Here it’s always exciting, opening the
door to the boarders, and the different gents
coming and going and chaffing me a bit. I always
did like a bit of life. And, of course, there’s a tip
now and then.” The girl’s knee joints are in
such a state from incessant galloping that she
must presently break down and go to a hospital.
Where there are children in the household and
but one maid kept, the latter has no doubt to
work fairly hard, but so has the mistress. And
the latter has not the option of quitting her
billet. The Australian housewife is a great toiler.
She has need to be if she would keep a grip of her
home. But eight o’clock breakfast and seven
o’clock dinner or supper imply 14 hours, through
which the work of the day is done smoothly and
consistently, or crushed through with ominous
creaking of household wheels, according to cir-
cumstances. Mr. E. W. O’Sdllivan wants legis-
lation on behalf of the domestic, but even Miss
Rose Scott and other forefront sympathisers with
the working woman acknowledge that, as yet, the
law cannot intervene. The very quality of the
service in the average house precludes the
exact time schedule that obtains in office,
shop, or factory. Even if the eight-hours
system could be applied to the girls’ case,
where would the maids who went off duty at two
in the afternoon sleep and have their evening
meals ? The girls who worked the second eight-
hours shift would most likely have to sleep on the
premises. Could the first lot afford to pay for
sleeping and eating outside ? For that matter,
could the average employer afford the second
relay of servants ?
Raise the social standard of domestic work and
the problem will solve itself. Inefficiency on the
part of the employee is mainly the cause of friction
between herandheremployer. Training schools and
diplomas will alter matters in favor of the domes-
tic worker as they have altered them for the nurse
and the teacher. The latter professions were once
more harshly treated than the domestic service
of to-day, and as little considered socially. Recall
the experiences of Charlotte Bronte and her sis-
ters as governesses. Meantime I’d like to suggest
to Rev. Mr. Taylor that he form a registry office,
get the names of all those evidently capable but
overloaded girls who write to him the pathetic
letters of protest, and—well, he can then stand
back, so as not to be trodden underfoot by the
rush of considerate employers, as the unbeliever
was at the gate of Samaria. I would be sorry to
see a flattened clergyman at the door of a registry
office, with frenzied married ladies standing on
his remains and calling for domestic help.
Mr. Andrew Seton Chisholm, of one of our lead-
ing grazier and sporting clans, died last week at
his place at Goulburn. He married the then
beauty of this State —Miss Phoebe Raymond. My
Old Identifier says that there has been no one so
good-looking as she in the interval between then
and now. One of the Andrew Chisholm daughters
married one of the Camden Park Onslows, and
another became Mrs. Alston who, with her husband,
is a well known teacher of singing. As a girl she
studied in Leipzic, but her fine voice was injured
by overtraining. Leipzic seems an unfortunate
place. Napoleon, I believe, injured his voice
there also, about 90 years ago, through trying to
holler to 170,000 men simultaneously.
Mr. “Jack” Want’s health has not improved
sufficiently to allow him to be rocked in the cradle
of the deep per the Mongolia. So the family has
cancelled its intended passage by that liner, and
will await the K.C.’s recovery.
The Lazarus honeymoon pair, who had £4OO
worth of jewellery stolen from their rooms at a
Sydney hotel, are offering a reward of £lOO for in-
formation, &c. But jewel robberies are so care-
fully planned and the burgling firm keeps its head
so clear of the lees of drink that the precious stones
are rarely recovered. The steal must make the
Frank Gardners—who are at Petty’s—keep a lynx
eye round them for “Raffles” and such like Na-
poleons of crime, or else they keep Madame’s
jewels in a vault. She has two of the pink dia-
monds of the world, and the wide diamond collar
that lights up a box at Her Majesty’s on first
nights—well, there’s nothing like it in this office.
Talking of bijou things: Foregoing pair of
visitors have with them a rarely beautiful bit of
old Florentine workmanship—a small gold box
about four inches long, two wide, and one-and-a-
half in depth, carved, and enamelled in blue. At
the touch of a spring the lid flies back, and a tiny
bird with ruby eyes and emerald wings is shot up,
singing like a lark. It warbles for some two
minutes, then drops from sight as suddenly as if a
wild cat were in sight. The mechanism of its
being and doing is quite concealed, and for fear of
destroying the bird that sings the golden song
Mr. Gardner has never attempted serious scrutiny.
The curio was given him by the late Pope
Leo XIII., and because he is so often asked about
it by collectors in divers parts of the world (it is an
historic thing in bijouterie) he does the dis-
interested and carries it with him.
An undergraduate girl friend of mine (I don’t
think she’ll “get through” because she’s put a
mirror in the inside of the crown of her hat and
gazes hard into the hat during lectures) tells me
that she’s afraid there’s going to be a case of prof.-
napping at the University some moonless night.
One of the professors is unmarried ; he’s young,
and he’s got rather the aspect of a romantic Italian
tenor. Looks as if he might any moment fling a
corner of his coat over his shoulder and swagger off
the rostrum singing La Donne 6 Mobile, fie pro-
fesses one of the driest sciences going—the great
African Desert is a bog by comparison —and report
says he never in his life toyed with Maryphyllis
in the shade. But the girls who are cramming go
by looks. Meantime they ache to send him letters
and violets, and books for finger impresions, and
ties, and brilliantine for his moustache. Possibly
he gets, and stealthily throws such gifts into the
Uni. duck-pond, and the ducks gobble up the
white-hot letters and die in great quackony. I
hope some able-bodied Princess Ida will ’nap him
and stop his career as a heart-flutterer.
An Australian art student in England throws
ashes on the alleged glory of staying at great
houses. “Yes, I stayed five days down at the
Countess of Dot’s place, and in that time I saw
my hostess twice, at dinner. None of the crowd
in the house took any notice of me beyond a
‘How do?’ Not one cared for my singing or
pretty parlor tricks. They were all for outdoor
games and sport and bridge. On the morning of
the fifth day after breakfast I saw my luggage in
the hall, and a servant told me that my train went
at eleven. I felt for a minute as if I were being
turned out. But it is the custom here to keep
strictly to the time you are asked to stay. Your
room is wanted for a fresh guest.”
Miss Murray, who draws those ox-eyed, elfin-
faced young parties as illustrating the wearing of
the latest millinery and gownery in the “ Woman’s
Page ” of the S.M. llep.ald, is a Tasmanian
lassie, and a great-granddaughter of Admiral
Tarleton.
A correspondent tells me that the dolls’ stall at
Adelaide Government House Fete had on view a
doll’s bed —cost £26 ss. The sheets and counter-
pane were embroidered, and the pillow-shams
trimmed with real lace and insertion, all exqui-
sitely made ; but it was an absurd price, f rail
that. Yet it was sold. Fancy the poor kiddy
doomed to play with a 25-guinea bed ! Safe to
assert that the child won’t feel half the exhilara-
tion that the Ragged School youngsters experi-
enced when Mayoress Allen Taylor entertained
them at Sydney Town Hall. The costly toy is
part of the preparation for decadence. One
of the band of bored infants who dug up valuable
gifts in Miss Eadith Walker’s grounds, at her
recent children’s party, complained to her mother,
on returning from a schoolroom-dinner at a little
friend’s house, that “she was starved. The en-
trees were not at all rechcrehd.”
The side-saddle in M.L. is doomed —so a corre-
spondent tells me. Every second she-centaur
there now rides cavalier fashion, and one of the
items on the sports programme of a big agricul-
tural show was a riding competition for ladies
mounted Amazon-wise. But for once (or oftener)
the riders are not following a fashion set in London
or Paris, but in M.L. itself by the islands’ own
wahines. Mrs. Brownwoman habitually rides on
a man’s saddle, with the stirrup-iron between her
toes and a spur on her bare INo. 10, and she can
light her pipe in good bushman fashion while at
full gallop.
Mrs. Willie Mitchell, once the most admired
and talked-of woman in Sydney, is to be married
early in December at Lucknow, India, to a Colonel
Goodwin. They will live at Lucknow.
The Cup is filling up. Mrs. Philip Morton and
one or more of her sisters, the well-turned-out
Hay girls, and Mrs. Colin Stephen and Miss Mar-
jorie Knox are now among those who “ intend to
go.”
There was a great flap of local Somebody wings
last week when two engagements were announced
—Miss Linda Teece, a daughter of the A.M.P
potentate, to Mr. “ Bert ” Littlejohn ; and Miss
Maisie Chisholm, youngest daughter of the late
Andrew Seton Chisholm, to a Monaro squatter
named Baird. Latter pair met on the Vancouver
boat.
“Lo, this only have I found, that God hath
made man upright, but they have sought out
many inventions.” A fashionable Sydney dress-
maker tells me of the new walk to be assumed
when you adopt your next winter fashions. The
Princess robe and the long redingote that are
coming must be worn with a poise and gait quite
different from those that went with the short
“trotter” skirt. Chief points of difference
are the bend forward from the waist,
and the angle at which your chin must
be carried. And—you must mark this speci-
fication with mental basting threads —in order to
cultivate the correct chin and body carriage you
must sleep on your face. Yes, you must sleep
face downwards with a small pillow stuffed under
your chin so that you shan’t suffocate. Two
redingotes, it may be remarked—one of tartan
cloth, the other of mauve and black silk —will
help to give the Flemington lawn its usual crazy-
quilt aspect.
Always a-going to and fro on the face of the
earth (like Satan before he stopped to boil
Job), Mrs. Burdekin and her linnet-like unmar-
ried daughter are writing out new recipes for
mat de mer and getting their deck shoes ready for
an England-bound liner. To balance things
several absentees intend returning. Dr. Taylor-
Young came back last week. His wife and infants
come later.
Mrs. Kearney, a lady from an up-country
centre, and the writer of a drama, “Tantalus
Talascus,” accepted and copyrighted by Mr. J. C.
Williamson, is in town to renew her acquaintance
with Lady Jersey.
Douglas Gerrard’s bad arm seemed worse on
Monday night, and he was evidently playing in
great pain. Even from the circle the swelling of
the hand was visible. Next time the actor sees a
black spider, he’ll run from it, not at it. Con-
cerning “ Merely Mary Ann.’’ The pathetic
figure of the over-worked lodging-house slavey
made some of the audience think that London
“generals” want the Law’s protection pretty
badly. Nearly midnight, yet the landlady, as she
goes upstairs, shrieks a fresh order at her up-to-
date “Marchioness” from every step. “And,
Mary Hann, remember that to-morrow is the
Lord’s day, and you must be hup to call the three
pair back for hearly chapel.” And Mary Ann
takes her apronful of boots up to her own room, to
clean them before she sleeps.
Dr. Kate Hogg has succeeded Dr. Agnes
Bennett in overseership of the female wing at
Oallan Park.
Mrs. Billyard-Leake, in mauve chine silk, with
rare old black lace, was the most artistically con-
spicuous guest at the Townsend-Moseley wedding.
She was the Tasmanian heiress whose husband
had, by will of the dispenser of the wealth, to
take her maiden name. The Billyard beau whom
she chose was the admired man about town, and
arranger of Union Club frisks of some dozen years
ago. When the 8.-L.’s are not absentees they
mostly live at Young.
Copies of the “declaration” given Miss Flor-
ence Taylor by her master, Leschitezky, are seen
in the long, musical fingers of many Sydney-siders.
The letter says “ Miss Taylor is capable by her
great gifts of becoming a first-rate pianiste if she
can give to the art the considerable time and
careful study necessary.”
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 30, 1905.
My Dear Yarrie,—
After all the booming, Henley-on-tlie-Drain was
little better this year than last. A few more
shrubs, an extra yard or two of art-muslin, more
frill on the part of the fancy kennel occupants,
made the only differences. Arrangements were
so bad that the Northcote dame got stuck midway
in the entrance, where two short posts left only
sufficient room for a mosquito to hop through.
The cheerful Ex., being built on a more consider-
able scale, and being, moreover, rigged with
capacious marine chiffons, was stranded, and the
Aides fore and aft gazed helplessly on. I hey
couldn’t hew the posts down with a, scarf-pin
or a gold pencil, and they daren’t put a
helpful shoulder to the situation. Finally
the dame extricated herself and smiled again.
The Gr. Gr. boot-box was festooned with arsenic-
green muslin. The only one to beat it was that
labelled “Melbourne Club.” A canopy and a
French cafe air of revelry prevailed over the Bull-
and-Bush brethren lodged thereon. The Mac-
kinnon-Fairbairn amalgams had a notice to the
effect that guests must not crowd the upper shelf
of the kennel. In the afternoon that kept lots of
the timid away. In the night, when the heavens
wept over Henley-on-the-Drain, all the notices
on earth wouldn’t have kept the bankers
off. They poured on till the boot-box rocked.
The billed races got on somehow. The swarms on
the reserved banks were too much taken up with
the hospitalities on the hulks and the peacocking
struts of the social folk to care about anything so
wildly exciting as a race. The fancy boat-loads
thickening the traffic on the Drain helped the
scene to look crowded and lively. But nothing
could make the Drain appear salubrious. Dead
dog and vegetable debris took the stream where
the boats left room, and the aroma could only be
got through with careful steering.
Miss Ethel Guthrie, who has been having a
good time in the Cold Country, reappeared at the
Drain festival. She wore black tailorings, with a
dash of chaste white in striking relief.
Yes-No Reid is becoming a nuisance to the
tram-conductors. I had heard many stories, but
regarded them as the usual funny fiction about a
fat party till I saw things for myself. The round
man wagged a fat finger at the tram. It stopped.
In rolled Georgie heavily and painfully. He took
some seconds to balance his bulk and some minutes
to recover respiration. Then a great oily
peace brooded over his countenance. His eyes
began to flutter like the tired wings of
a dove. Finally he settled to sleep. The
coin-collector yelled “Fare.” The fat figure
made no sign. “Fare” was bellowed. A
slight tremor passed over the huge accumu-
lation. Georgie opened his eves and smiled
guilelessly. “Fare,” he echoed in a shrill treble,
and sought in fifteen pockets. “ I have a
ticket somewhere,” he chirped. The man in
buttons jerked away with brutal impatience to
collect other fares. When he came back, Georgie
was holding out a church coin. That delivered,
he started to search again for the lost ticket.
After five minutes of slow fat exploring, he dug
out the missing ticket, and, calling the exas-
perated conductor along, displayed it with the
contented remark, “I knew I had it somewhere.”
Then he sank it again into a deep abyss of his
garments, and went once more to sleep.
Miss Florence Young arrives in this hub on
Derby morning, which means that the Comic
Opera charmer is to air her Yank-cut frillies
at the Cup Carnival. A younger sister of
Florence is coining to the front of the
chorus. She now figures in the silk team, where
her straight buxom form and rather scornful under-
lip strike the stall-brayers as something quite
unlike the giddier elements of that frolicsome
team. It’s evident that the management shows
no favors to the next of kin of its stars. This young
novice has had to lurk in the back ranks for a
whole year. It’s only recently she has been moved
forward.
Miss Connie Armytage, the fiancee of ex-
Private Secretary Fitzpatrick, is off to Colombo
this week. With her goes Miss Brodribb, and
the pair intend to be on the salaaming tracks of
the Rajahs and such as don the turban of high
festivity for the Royal visit. In India they will
spend some weeks as the guests of Victorians
domiciled there.
Toorak has seized on the fact that a very rusty
old Federalist, long averse to the marriage yoke,
is looking round these days for a companionable
Eve. There is a flutter in the catteries in conse-
quence. A title and a fat income go with the old
boy.
Miss Alison Fairbairn, just, I reckon, to show
she isn’t prejudiced, and has the same sort of
blood as ordinary humanity, took the common or
garden epidemic of measles to herself, and at
present is not without spot. The attack was
timed badly, just as dress-fittings were due and
the Henley revel demanded her energetic aid.
Now she will not be declared free from spot till
the eve of the Derby. Several other bright girls
are down with the same complaint, and have had
their radiance dimmed thereby.
That very righteous surgeon, M. 17. O’Sullivan,
whose name is identified with the patriotic prin-
ciple of encouraging the birth-rate all he knows,
is back from his jaunt to the Cold Country with
an expanded chest and the latest Piccadilly tailor-
ings. On Wednesday the Women’s Hospital staff
turned out in a body to drink a welcome-back
brew at the Vienna. The O’Sullivan's melli-
fluous voice rolled out in Hibernian thanks for
the tea and muffin compliment.
Mrs. Bowes Kelly’s bidding to a swagger aspara-
gus spree at the Northcotes’ last week happened at
an inopportune period. She was otherwise engaged
contributing to the Victorian birth rate. Mr.
Bowes Kelly went on his own, with a personal
apology for the Missus in his pocket.


Nature’s Pleasant Laxative.
■r
NATURES
PIEASANTi
LAXATIVE’ 4
ifISMaBE
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE*
5
California Syrup of Figs is now
without doubt the most widely
appreciated household medi-
cine of modern times. Doctors
everywhere recommend it, be-
cause it strengthens the Liver,
Bowels and Kidneys whilst
at the same time thoroughly
but very gently cleansing the
sluggish system. Its great
value lies in the help it gives
in permanently overcoming
Habitual Constipation and its
many attendant ills.
WORDS OF ADVICE . —Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and
see that the package bears the name of the California Fig Syrup Co.
Imitations are numerous, but as you value your health you cannot risk
taking a substitute. Of all Chemists, in two sizes.
Depot : 32 Snow Hill, London. Australia: 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
-o. !
Amusements.
Theatre tov a l, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. .. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THUNDERBOLT,
Written by Ambrose Pratt and A. S. Joseph,
Presented by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, Headed by the
Talented Australian Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN.
SAT. NEXT, NOV. 4, THE MOCKERY OF MARRIACE.
Box Plan at Elvy.’s. POPULAR PRICES —3s, 2s and Is.
QRITER lON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
ALFRED D AMPIER
as CAPTAIN STARLIGHT
in
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 4, HIS NATURAL LIFE.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S DRAMATIC COMPANY in
MERELY MARY ANN.
Miss TITTELL BRUNE as MARY ANN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. IW~ PRICES AS USUAL.
I V O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Splendid Success of CRIMMONS and GORE.
Great Success of HILL and WHITAKER, Musicians,
Vocalists, Banjo Soloists, Banjo and Harp Duettists.
Continued Success of LES BRUNIN, Billiardistes Modernes.
Brilliant & Artistic Success of DIAMOND & BEATRICE.
PAYEN, L’Enigniatique Pierrot Gynmaste.
Everybody’s Favorite Comedian, MR. TOM DAWSON.
Mr. WALTER KEEN. KELLY and AGNES.
MAUD FANINC. FRIEDA NIEMANN. PEARL LOVELL.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBO LTfiTfrif
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Another Great Change of Programme by
LE ROY, TALMA, BOSEO, World’s Monarchs of Magic,
Greatest Illusionists on Earth.
RYDER SLONE, Vocal Character Comedian.
JACKSON FAMILY, Leading Musicians.
BOY CLEN, Juvenile Raconteur.
IRVING SALES and LES WARTON.
Plan at Allan’s. &3T PRICES —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. BLAND HOLT.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Powerfully Constructed . Australian Drama,
THE BETTINQ BOOK.
KW PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, Mr. O. SIMONSENS.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietor .. ..■ Mr. George Musgrove.
Lessees .. .. “ The Players.”
GREAT SUCCESS of
“TUB! B»L A.YER.a”
in the Famous Gaiety Success,
IN TOWN.
Special Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
PRICES AS USUAL.
pR IN CESS’S THEATRE, MELBO URN E.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 4,
Re-appearance of MISS NELLIE STEWART and
MR. GEO. MUSGROVE’S ENGLISH COMPANY
in
Sweet Nell of Old Drury,
For Six Nights and One Matinee Only.
gl JOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Commencing SATURDAY, NOV. 4,
MR. GEORGE STEPHENSON’S ENGLISH MUSICAL
COMEDY COMPANY in the Merry Musical Comedy,
THE SKIRT DANCER.
Staged Regardless of Expense.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THE LAST OF SIX
Price 6d. Post Free.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRc, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE ORCHID.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 4,
Mr. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
A COUNTRY GIRL (for 2 Nights Only).
CUP NIGHT, TUESDAY, NOV. 7, Re-appearance of
MISS FLORENCE YOUNG in PAUL JONES (for 4
Nights Only).
Plan at Allan’s. MATINEE, WEDNESDAYS.
ATH EN/E UM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of J. O. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8. EVERY AFTERNOON at 2.30.
Mr. J. O. Williamson’s Newly-Constructed
810-TABLEAU
AND
ALL-STAR PICTURE SHOW.
Box Plan Allan's, Menzies’ & Grand. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
“ PRINCES COURT,”
MELBOURNE.
General Manager A. L. BAIRD.
I*- ADMISSION 6d ; CHILDREN 3d.
LATEST SENSATION ! 1 !
“LEAPING THE CHASM.”
DASTRO, THE DARING (Amer; ca’s Most Famous Cyclist),
Leaps through 40ft. space (enveloped in flames), after
a lightning speed descent down a 60ft. incline on a
narrow track.
9.45 Every Night. 5.30 Saturday Afternoon.
9.45 Saturday Night.
TtZGERALD’S circus building,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING,
ERONI BROTHERS’ CSCANTIC CIRCUS
and MENAGERIE.
The Most Legitimate Circus in Australia.
200 Animals and Performers Engaged.
PRICES —3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Glen’s.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS, CUP
DAY, AND KING’S BIRTHDAY.
X\/irt he’ 8 HUGE SHows and •• •
irill£> Daring Death=Trap Loop.
NEW PROGRAMME-SATURDAY, NOV. 4.
THE VAST CITY OF TENTS,
ALEXANDRA AVENUE.
“A scene of gorgeous splendor.”
LOOP,
HIPPODROME,
ZOO,
WILD WEST.
Greatest
Shows
ON
Earth.
CIRCUS,
BEASTS’ PARADE,
MUSEUM,
BUSHMANSHIP.
Huge Elephant Herd.
Largest Travelling Zoo in the World.
8 Shows for One Ticket—4s., 35., 25., and Is.
Business Announcements.
NO MORE CADGERS
TF yon have one of our Trick Cigarette Cases. By so
manipulating it you can make the cigarettes appear or
disappear at will. Strongly made ; beautifully finished in
polished nickel ; will hold about a dozen Cigarettes. Is.
6d. each, or 3 for 4s. Trick Match Boxes Is. each.
A. «/. Smith & Co., 6 Moore St., Sydney.
JABORINE
HAIR TONIC.
The Finest Preparation ever introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 26, Posted 29. Give it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, ~
Ladies’ and Centtemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST. t SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years. T
The arrival of a daughter to the house of Rep.
H. W. Lee led to much brass and blow on the
part of Parliament. One would have thought the
race was just saved from extinction by this con-
tribution to the world of a little Lee. A muster
of the members in the Opposition room was held
to compliment the proud dad, and a presentation
of comforters, mugs, spoons, rattles, and an
address of rejoicing further flattered the parent.
Even the Deakin eloquence was let loose on the
subject.
The arrival of an infant to the George Verdons,
who are at present lodged in England, occurred
after many years of matrimony minus a cradle on
the premises. George Yerdon is a brother of the
Melb. Commissioner of Titles—the dandiest old
bachelor abroad in these parts.
Face-healing is the latest fad. The cream and
flower of society are sweeping down upon Miss
Rubenstein’s new beauty parlors in Collins street.
The Viennese of Valaze fame is just back from
Europe, weighted with valuable secrets of youth
and beauty, and has a charming suite of rooms,
where massage is administered according to the
most learned principles, and Melbourne rushes to
get its Cup face polished up.
The doctors have been doing remarkably good
biz. in the theatrical world. Two or three times
Miss Jeffries threatened to end her season abruptly
and retire to a hospital ward. The alarm kept the
co. in a state of hot unrest. In the comic opera
ranks Miss Margaret Thomas struggled against a
collapse. Twice she was out of the “Cingalee,”
and twice Miss Preston tripped from the rear to
shoulder the star part. Then Miss Preston fell
ill. At latest she was in'hospital. Likewise Miss
Thomas. Now Miss Clara Clifton slowly recovers
from an ’itis that effected the throat. Miss Rose
Musgrove makes tremendous jokes about her fever
crop and her transformation. She actually tells
the story of how she lost both hat and wig, the
other day, in Bourke-street.
Colonel Selwyn Campbell, whose light goes out
with the Waxcellency Madden’s, and glimmers
when the Wax assumes its brief but shining vice-
regal period, is getting some attention on charity
committees. The military bachelor is at present
foremost with suggestions for the dames’ epileptic
hop.
The eye is being camera-ed for medallion pur-
poses. Miss Amy Willard, of the ‘‘Sweet Nell”
co., was the first to flaunt one of the kind. A
Dunedin photographer “took ” her orb during the
recent tour of Maoriland, and she relates how the
snapshotter took care to select the better eye of
the two. The difference ’twixt eyes is now being
thoughtfully looked into, and most Misses of any
perspicuity are marking for future photographic
purposes the more pleasing, or sparklesome, or
serious (as tastes go) of the pair, when there is a
pair of ’em, which is usually the case.
Just at this stage the she-bowlers of the State
are dispensing with corsets and equipping them-
selves for the green. Vainly the straight-fronted
ones essayed to bob and. bend, and secure a free
arm-swing in the accoutrement of the fashionable
hour. Accidents were too frequent, and now the
she who is more of a sport than a friller, dispenses
altogether with ironmongery about her person,
and girds herself in simply with a leather belt.
At every other green game, with the exception
perhaps of croquet, the sexes may go straight-
fronted in comparative comfort. But one must
bend to bowl.
A Melbourne dame who was boasting a while
back about the marvellous merits of hei Jap.
house-boy, now sports a pained silence and a
white servant. It has crept out that startling
discoveries led to the Jap s dismissal. A search
for sundry missing socks revealed the fact that
Whathoshima fancied them as dish-cloths. Fur-
ther investigation showed that when he removed
the baby’s bath-tub he invariably washed the
dishes in the same water. The Jap appeared to
have no idea that there was anything seriously
wrong in his way of doing things, and fear of
further revelations led the staggered housewife to
hustle him off without saying much. The family
is now strongly White Australian, although
it does not care to go too deeply into the reasons
for the change.
R.O. Archbishop Carr is anxious to promote
church dances. As a means to matrimony he
prefers the hop to the bazaar any day. It grieves
Archbishop Carr to find the mixed marriage so
much in vogue. Periodically his curates warn the
congregation against the Protestant partner and
he himself enlarges on the theme—but to little
use. The fact is the R.C. girl is vastly in excess
of the R.C. boy, and moreover the up-country R.C.
boy is strangely bacheloric nowadays. Mary
Anne, too, is disposed to look down on Mike, and
all the sermons in the world, full of Gracetho’they
be, will not deter a husband huntress from seeing
virtues and beauty in the Protestant Robert when
he begins to talk business.
That tired feeling ! One of the sex afflicted
with apathy and poverty advertises plaintively in
the papers for a home and a small pittance in
return for light services, spring-dusting being
specially designated. Spring-dusting implies a
languid flicking of a dilapidated boa-tail over the
what-nots of Suburbia, or the desultory flutter of
a rag about the nude legs of the cottage piano.
The tired gentlewoman who publishes a request
for a little sewing, and will stitch for pa and ma
and seven little Australians when she’s inclined,
doesn’t compare for tired feeling with the dis-
tressed lady who would like to coquette with the
furniture in return for her bite, sup and bed in an
irreproachable house.
There are some terrible examples of “art” in
the Vic. National Gallery, but the latest aggra-
vation, just walled in a particularly good light (all
good canvasses are hung in a poor one), has for
subject “ Canute listening to the Monks of Ely.”
It is presented by the executors of the will of the
late Mrs. McCulloch. Canute is a wooden image
and his crew ditto. It is large and dull and drab,
and the Gallery czars are anathematised for giving
it a good place.
In a city of alleged sanctity, a learned and
erratic old scientist is being pestered by a reproach-
ful spinster, who charges him with past attentions
which she interpreted as being of a matrimonial
character, and she girds up her lawsuit and
prepares to sue him for breach of promise.
Aide Hood quits the staff of S. A. Governer Le
Hunte presently. The attache of the apathetic
air was no great favorite in Tortoise Town. His
heavy-duty air and lisp disqualified him from any
giddy flutterings thereabouts.
A smart Kew girl makes a marriage journey to
India’s coral mudbank this month (November).
Mahomet’s journey to the mount is made
because business anchored this particular mount
to Burmese soil.
Geelong feels grieved that its wealthiest couple,
the Philip Russells, are lodged in Britain for a
term of three years. They have nailed themselves
to a Perthshire roost for that time, and are giving
any rolling stones from their old haunts a good
time there.
Head-Master Blanche, of the Church of Eng-
land Grammar School, is off for an educative
jaunt. He purposes accumulating much collegiate
knowledge and training hints to apply to Tommy
and Bob. He also should acquire a more grown-
up air and the wrinkles of authority, for he is the
youngest-looking of the teaching tribe in the
State.
Mrs. Dyce Murphy has moved with her small
but important squad into the Sylvester Brownes’
handsome house at Heyington, which is over by
the sunny side of Tooralt. The “Nice Murphys”
the family is dubbed by an admiring set.
Miss Addie Hine and Miss Irene Dillon were
the star whirlers at “The Players’” show the
other night. The former is a girl with the
most pliable and revolvable legs ever displayed
by so small an Australian native. T’other takes
the cake as the Call Boy given to a sprightly pas
seul every now and then.
The new arrival at Stonington, Miss Stuart
Wortley, has had to set all her wardrobe aside
and get into impromptu mourning for her late
uncle. The misfortune of bereavement at a time
that was to have rung with revelry is tempered by
visits to hospitals and such institutions. That
would be, to many young people, a greater inflic-
tion than the garb of woe, but perhaps to one of
the Talbot race it is a pleasure.
A Maryborough squatteress—Mrs. James
Thompson—and her stylish flock trip to the Cold
Country shortly. The jolly dame is the mother
of the tallest twins that have happened here for
many a day. Their debut this season was a
humorous event.
A croquet tournament drew a frilly pack to the
Windsor lawns last week. Miss Birdie Robb
(Birdie is an unfortunate name to grow up with ;
it’s all right for the chicken, but not for the post-
chicken stage) presided at a tea. Mrs. William
Parbury won a hand-mirror as a result of the com-
petition. The curate game is much in vogue
around here.
Miss Evelyn Scott is brandishing a brigU ;w
engagement circlet before the eyes of the 'stall
Johnnies. The lucky He is said to be au. ieal
artist showing at Rickards’.
The sharp competition in tea and bun shops has
driven the proprietress of the Winter Gardens
and Chicago Arbor in the heart of the Block, to
make a big splash. The rosery is now furnished
as an Arabian garden, with a gorgeous Japanese
department in the near neighborhood. The two
classes of art decoration are designed to catch the
crowd. Tea-sippers with a prejudice against
Monkey-land can squat under Arab arches, and
vice versd. Three hundred can call for their tea
and muffin in this place simultaneously, and 300
tea-pots are on brew at the same time. ’Tis a
colossal bunnery.
The debutante daughter of Dr. £. £. Smith
has scored musically once more. The last pass for
a diploma of Licentiate of the Royal Academy
gives her the right to append a few letters to her
name. Miss Louise Smith is herself not the kind
to tag them on, but perhaps she’ll lend them to
popper, who has a weakness for the alphabet.
YOURS Affectionately, TRYPHENA.
HOW TO BE BEAUTIFUL.
Yalaze preparations are still on top. None better are to
be found in the world. Mdlle. H. Rubinstein travelled far
and wide for a skin food to beat Valaze ; she didn’t find it.
All the champion centres of skin culture in Europe were
searched through and through. Result—Valaze prepara-
tions triumphed. Valaze preparations are on top of the
beauty producers of the world ! Valaze preparations are
the sole creators of cream end roses in the face of woman.
Nothing to , eclipse them or come near them on earth.
Better news still! Study in the most famous laboratories
of the world’s skin specialists has resulted in the establish-
ing of Massage Parlors at ‘274 Collins-street, where fair
woman finds a new skin, a fresh bloom, a new beauty of
form and face. No need to go disfigured, to be ugly, unat-
tractive, with skin marred or blemished ; the scientific skin
treatment at 274 Collins-street will rectify all that. Miss
Rubinstein and her two Viennese assistants conjointly,
with a replete electrical apparatus, effect miracles. Mole's,
warts, superfluous hairs, wrinkles, double chins, disfigure-
ments of all kinds are removed. The face blooms afresh.
Nothing is impossible. Scientific Massage treatment, a
steady use of Valaze, the herbal soap will effect wonders.
The faded, withered skin disappears. The greatest
specialists in Europe have trained, taught, instructed Miss
Rubinstein and her assistants. Certificates bearing the
most eminent signature in the world’s list of skin specialists
testify to the fitness of these ladies. All Australia should
ring with the news of their coming—it is an epoch. Valaze
was a boon—now, in addition, is the Scientific Massage
treatment, and a host of new Polish preparations for re-
fractory disfigurements. The jaded society woman, the
tired theatrical, the weary singer, all have a chance of
fresh beauty and bracing up. No one need despair—there
is hope for the plainest, the most world-fagged. The age
of miracles is not past*—be ugly, be discontented, be cross,
be peevish no longer. The best Scientific Massage treat-
ment and beauty preparations in the world are yours for
the asking. Mdlle. Rubinstein, on her return from Europe,
brought out some most wonderful beauty-giving prepara-
tions, which have never before been within the reach of
Australians, as well as the Scientific Massage treatment,
and the marvellous amount of good one can receive by
spending a few shillings in the Massage Rooms, or on some
of the special preparations for blackheads or other dis-
figurements, or a set of the Massage Rollers, for using in
one’s own home, will be thoroughly appreciated.
Call in when passing 274 Collins-street (over Glen’s).
Melbourne, or make a special trip—you will be amply
rewarded. To suit your convenience, a telephone appoint-
ment can be made if you ring up 4361. Note new address.
Prices.—Valaze, 3s. 6d. and 6s. ; postage, 6d. extra.
Valaze Herbal Complexion Soap, 2s. Dr. Lykuski’s Special
Blackhead Cure, 2s. 6d.
“ Be Wise in time and Beautiful for ever.”*
According to news from South Africa this
country’s old friend Crickolas Willis has been re-
manded back to Sydney on one charge, but there
are two more charges to be heard. This appears
to mean that he is to be sent back once, but the
Natal court hasn’t yet decided whether it will
send him back twice or three times. Which
vaguely suggests the case of the man who had
eight wounds. Three of them were mortal, but
the doctors reckoned they could cure the other
five.
During the debate on the Liquor Bill in
N.S.W. Assembly, hon. members suddenly dis-
covered that they had closed up the bar at Sydney
Cricket Ground. As all the members are ex
officio members of the ground, the rush to get the
bar opened again before anyone knew it was
closed was humorous ; and then a caitiff arose and
challenged the vote that re-opened the bar, on the
point that members were pecuniarily and other-
wise interested. The Speaker, like a good thirsty
sport, came to the rescue and over-ruled the chal-
lenge.
Says the man from Mildura, “ What do I
see in the Cup? Well, not much until I have
absorbed my regulation allowance of D.C.L.—you
know the brand ! Then I get a fair notion as to
which horses I should back, or leave severely alone.
No whisky in the world can reveal the winner’s
name for certain, but my experience tells me that
the wisest selections are made under the influence
of D. C. L. I usually spot the winner in three tries
— i.e., three nips.”*
“Stella”: Am nursing a sanctimonious
ex - churchwarden and ex-half-a-dozen other
things. He is not seriously ill, but, all the same,
lam usually called up three times during each
... T , • i , , , , „ f
night. Last night, however, he only called once,
and next morning demanded much praise for his
great consideration. “ You know,” snuffled he in
bed, “ the righteous man is merciful to his beast.”
I told him I wasn’t his beast.
At Palmerston (N.T.) the other day two
town and two suburban sections were offered at
a “ ct . i ° n ’ a T nd . a bu Y er was found for only one of
‘ti^ fin ? ntral bW ’ for which £l5OO
was ottered a few years ago; now it is sold (to
the usual Chow) for £4OO. The drop in value from
£l5OO to £4OO is further proof of the great pros-
perity that flows in along with a discolored popula-
tion—Palmerston has now three yellow men for
every European.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
dfg
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S.
A MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. invaluable for Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
“ MAKES HOME, SWEET HOME IN DEED.”
- None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
sdf
Griffith and Allan, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne—(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS^
gs
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason*
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limb*
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
There were Six Hatters and Six Potters,
and now six Parisian councillors have refused to
shake the paw of Edward VII., and the six
Commonwealth States want to know what it all
means.
Lord Rosebery has the blastiferous cheek
to assert that if Australia sympathises generally
with the Tory party’s proposals for Protection,
therefore it must sympathise with that party’s
Chinese labor doings in South Africa.
It is thought likely that the Australian
excise on “ black-grown ” sugar will be raised
from £3 to £4 per ton, whilst the excise on white-
grown sugar will be left at its present £1 per ton
rate. That would give the white grower an
advantage of £3 per ton, and hasten the passing
away of the Kanaka.
A protest was made in the N.S.W. Assem-
bly, last week, at Mr. Crick taking part in the
debates since he is defendant in a serious
case. Certainly no ordinary man would care
to face his fellow-members until he had cleared
himself of an accusation of such seriousness, but
Crick is no ordinary man.
“ J.F.” : It would help things along if the
Australian Parliament took all N.S.W. outside
the 100 miles limit from Sydney as Federal terri-
tory, and collected the revenue thereof straight-
away, and thereby gave J. H. Carruthers some-
thing more important than the driving of a peg to
go to law about. I want to see a really good fight.
“Woodki” : I never had a very exalted
opinion of our State Legislature, but when it
comes to this sort of thing, in N.S.W. Hansard,
I think it’s time to call a meeting of myself and
pass several resolutions “ viewing with alarm ”
and calling on the country to “promote such
broad-minded legislation as will tend to the best
interests of the community ” :
Mr. Arthur Griffith : .
“A.S.”: The defence and immigration
Sroblems can be settled in one act. Get Dr.
laclaurin to tell the invader, when he comes,
that “the land has been sold and paid for, and
any talk of invasion or annexation is conversation
of a most dishonest character.” Then the invader
will go away home, and the need for more people
will cease.
“ Priam’s ” theory :
I am sorry that the Booth settlement will not come to
Australia ; it promised interest in the future. A band of
emigrants, picked for their Hallelujah devotion ; a set of
weak, emotional minds huddled together on a block of
land in the inland loneliness ; hard, coarse conditions of
life and penury made continual by the exactions of the
cause ; and the hysterical religious atmosphere that
strengthens and is strengthened by sex cravings. Sooner
or later that settlement would have yielded results of sur-
prising interest to students of the human mind.
Vic. Political Labor Council is raising the
question whether the Village Settlements Act of
1893 has not produced better results than the
Bent Government cares to admit. In short, was
it advisable to throw the Village Settlements Act
aside to make room for Bent’s Closer Settlement
Act, whereby big landholders are trading off their
more or less barren territory upon an obliging
Government ?
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers has offered to
submit his books for examination to the Lands
Commission. The offer was accepted, the Com-
missioner remarking that this “had been done
already with one Minister. ” With what Minister ?
It would be more satisfactory to the public if
evidence were tendered in open court of the agency
transactions of Ministers. It is presumed that
they are perfectly correct; if so, there is no reason
for concealment.
A Maoriland elector rose lately, gave a
long disquisition on the dangers attending Rugby
football, and then asked the candidate if he was
in favor of giving each of the M.L. Rugby team
now in England a grant of £2OO, seeing that they
might come back maimed for life. The candidate
declined flatly to encourage with a subsidy of
public money the pursuit of a bit of leather
covered with mud. “ Well, I won’t vote for you,”
said the disgusted elector.
Yes-No Reid cut a sorry figure, as usual,
in the House of Representatives, when discussing
the military Estimates. He vigorously denounced
the policy of the Government, which he described
as inadequate and ludicrously incomplete. After
half-an-hour’s tirade, someone mildly mentioned
that the Government, through lack of time to re-
organise things, had been forced to accept the
Reid Cabinet’s Estimates, and that the fat man was
braying at his own handiwork.
“ Two Seas ” on railway freights :
As showing the “pull” that the hairy producer of
wheat has in railway freights over the ordinary producer
or citizen who is not engaged in that soil-stirring occupa-
tion, a case of books weighing 4cwt. cost £1 9s. 7d.
railage from Warialda to Sydney, 462 miles. For the
same distance the Railway Commissioners will haul their
pet’s wheat at 14s. per ton—less than one-tenth the rate.
The bullock puncher doesn’t fare so well, as a ton of
“stinkin’ ’ides” (wet) over the same distance costs £2
17s. 10d., probably on account of the grievous weight of
the smell, although the inoffensive sheepskin pays the
same rate. A ton of greasy wool costs £3 7s. 3d., scoured
wool £3 13s. 6d., and, as a ton of the former doesn’t weigh
more than 20ewt. of the latter, the inference is that the
extra charge is made to discourage country scourers in
favor of their brethren around Sydney. Taken by and
large, N.S.W. railway rates afford some humorous reading.
But the wheat-grower smiles most.
Spruce Myth, haranguing Waverley (Syd-
ney) Women’s Liberal League the other night:—
As a contrast, he referred to the United States, where
an invitation was extended to all who could bring energy,
skill, money, or inventive genius, with no distinction as to
creed, color or nationality. Unfortunately, the politics of
Australia precluded any such consummation.
Now, is it possible to believe that Spruce is merely
mistaken when he tells such fairy tales —especially
as he always seems to work them off on “ fashion-
able ” women, who can’t be expected to know any
better ?
‘ ‘ Snell ” writes :
While the Victorian Police Commission is sitting
wouldn’t it be worth while inquiring how it comes about
that Melbourne policemen are aide to become fairly large
property holders on the poor pay that is their legitimate
reward? The idea of Policeman Hex owning his little
suburban terraces was erstwhile a joke, but I submit that
it is no joke. It is a stubborn fact that many constables,
starting with nothing, are able, in the course of a few
years when their wages have mounted to, say, £3 a week,
to become landlords, while ordinary workers receiving the
same pay are only able to just about scrape along.
Couldn’t the Commission try and discover how it’s done,
if only to provide an object lesson in economy for the
benefit of the community at large ?
The Local Government Bill evoked a
pathetic remonstrance in N.S.W. Legislative
Council on the ground that it would mean
“double taxation”—taxation, that is, by the
shire and by the State. MacLaurin, Kater and
Pilcher thought this was “glaring.” Still the
Sydney or Newcastle resident has paid that same
double taxation for many years without any
especial glare. And the people of England, Scot-
land and Ireland pay it as a matter of course.
“Loyal” persons like MacLaurin, Kater and
Pilcher are always telling us to imitate England
till they find it may cost them and their class a
few coppers, and then they would see England
boiled at the stake first.
Q. Premier Morgan has given a humorous
and effective twist to Brisbane Art Gallery row.
The squabble at first was between Brisbane Coun-
cil and the Government, the former refusing to
give up the pictures until the latter satisfied a
claim for rent. Morgan and Co. were too busy
saving the country to waste time on sore-headed
aldermen, however, so they neatly passed the
matter on by ordering the trustees to get posses-
sion of the collection at once or be gazetted out of
office. The situation is harrowing ; the aldermen
and trustees rushed into conference on the matter,
but the only joint resolution e ine to was that
“the Morgan Government was the most con-
temptible that ever disgraced Q ;ensl and.” The
aldermen will now either have o back down or
sacrifice their friends, the trustees. It’s a business-
like Cabinet, is Morgan’s.
ONE OF OUR ASSETS.—THE HOLE THE
GOLD CAME FROM.
“ Hufiin Guffin ” from Victoria :
There may now be added to the usual brigade of
hangers-on and followers-up of agricultural shows, race
meetings, &c., the Deform League platitudinist and his
kind. The three-card trick man, the cheap-jack, the
Punch and Judy proprietor and the side showman of all
kinds is now hustled in his railway seat and crowded in his
efforts to earn a dishonest copper by the representatives of
the Farmers’, Produeers’and Property-Owners’ Association,
the Reform League lecturers, the National Ass. officials,
etc., etc. The men with the monkey and the lottery are
said to be considerably upset by having to associate with
the new crowd when travelling, and are seriously pro-
posing a strike.
The N.S.W. Assembly has modified its
Liquor Bill, by extending the maximum time
before a pub. can be extinguished from three years
to eight years or more. There was, apparently, a
majority for the original proposal, but it gave way
before the stonewalling of a minority, and majority
rule went overboard. This sort of thing is simply
legislation by threat or bribery. To threaten a
majority that, unless it votes a certain way, it
will be broken down by long hours and exhaus-
tion, is just as unconstitutional as to threaten that
it will be broken down with an axe. And to bribe
it into surrender by the offer of some much-needed
rest is no less immoral than to bribe it with coin
or large notes. Legislators don’t appear to fully
realise this yet, but some day they will.
British War Minister Arnold Foster is
pessimistic as to army reform. Speaking at Croy-
don recently, he
confessed that he sometimes feared that nothing would
bring the nation to a sensible state of mind regarding tne
army but a tremendous defeat.
This should encourage Australians to follow the
advice of their Foreign-trade press and refuse to
establish an effective local system of defence.
Then when the British army is having its valuable
lesson, Australia, not being able to strike a blow
for itself, will get a valuable lesson also.
S.M. Herald, in its “On the Land”
column, concerning the Harvester squabble :
It was freely stated that the increased valuation would
fall heavily on the producers, but instead of that the
price to the producer was almost immediately reduced
some £l2 10s. Another somewhat significant fact is, that
while imported harvesters are down to £7O here, the
machines are being sold in the Argentine, where there is
no local manufacturer, at over £lOO.
The Herald argued for many years that Protec-
tive duties inevitably raise prices, and that the
local manufacturers were avaricious persons who
must be suppressed in the interests of the pro-
ducers. But it sometimes threatens to be a better
and wiser Herald nowadays.
Sworn in evidence before the Tariff Com-
mission by W. W. Forwood (of Forwood, Down
and Co.): —
Nearly the whole of the agitation and percolation
cyanide plants now in use in gold-mining in Australia
were of Australian manufacture. The whole of the furnaces
imported from abroad for the purpose of roasting ores on
the Westralian mines had been, or were, in process of
being discarded, and those of Australian design and manu-
facture were being substituted. The Australian-made
grinding-pans, and pans for grinding and amalgamating,
were certainly holding their own against the grinding
mills and grinding-pans of foreign make. Far more
machinery and appliances of foreign make and design
for treating ores in Westralia and at Broken Hill had
been discarded through failure to do their work than of
Australian make and design.
The Improved Small Holdings Bill, now
before the Victorian Assembly, is a scheme-for
“settling people on the land.” Under it each
settler is to receive £2OO worth of land, and have
£2OO lent him to go on with, and it is expected
that, with a total expenditure of £225,000, some
560 people will be settled on the soil in three years.
What a hideous joke—the settlement at great ex-
pense of less than 200 people per annum, when
some 14,000 people are leaving the State annually
for want of land, and taking several times £225,000
with them, and when then are 14 fertile but
almost empty counties, c paole of holding some
three million of people, who would settle them-
selves if the right kind of a land-tax and land law
broke up the big estates !
Lord Jersey, when he first
touched N.S.W. soil, made himself
“solid” with Australians by the de-
fence of the country against its
“ mosquito critics.” Returning to the
Commonwealth on a visit, he shows
that he has preserved a capacity for
fair judgment. Interviewed by the
newspapers, Lord Jersey gave as his
views: Australia ought to have a
High Commissioner in London, fresh
from Australian life; the “Stinking
Fish ” party is mainly responsible
for the adverse criticisms of Australia
in England; a flood of Booth immi-
grants would not be desirable for
Australia; it is the persistence of
borr owing and not any fear of “ Labor
legislation ” which depresses Austra-
lian securities in London.
Owing to the great exodus of
population from Tasmania the Evans
Ministry is “earnestly considering
the question of closer settlement.”
But the old sea-captain’s Government
can’t do anything unless it gets back
some of the land from its big landlords
to settle the people on, and the land-
lords won’t sell voluntarily at prices
that people can atford to pay, and the
ancient marine person regards any
compulsion as an outrage on property.
So Evans is a dismasted character, and
prostrate in the lee scuppers, so to
speak, and has sprung a leak, to say
nothing of having hove the main deck
overboard, and having much salt water
in the forecastle.
The average human life in
Britain is seven years longer than it
was at the time when Freetrader John
Bright uttered his “ rounded periods ”
in protest agafhst factory legislation,
and defended the brutal system of putting child-
ren to hard unhealthy labor.
S.M. Herald prints this for the informa-
tion of the Bruce Smith people who rave about
our restrictions on the Japanese :
In connection with the present negotiations between
the Federal and Japanese Governments it should be
borne in mind that no Australian, or foreigner of any
kind for that matter, is allowed to own land in Japan, no
Australian or Australian company can own or work mines,
or become a member of the Stock Exchange, or own
shares in railways, semi-Government banks, or subsidised
shipping companies.
William M'Culloch, of Vic., having re-
turned from the Benighted Kingdom, proceeds to
set Australia in order (see Melb. Age, Oct. 24).
After eulogising the discredited Jack Taverner,
he instructs the Australian Government whom to
appoint High Commissioner, rebukes “a late
Federal Premier” and a State Premier “not a
thousand miles away from Melbourne” for talking
through their necks, condemns the Australian
Parliament for its Irish Home Rule resolutions,
and concludes : “ I stated twice on the public
platform that tne people of Australia were pre-
pared to give quite as much [fiscal preference] as
they expected to get.” Now that William has
come back, things will go nicely, thank you.
Where the treasure is there shall the heart
be also! “Home,” to the average Australian
politician, is naturally the locality from which all
blessings flow —titles, stars, ribbons, gold braid,
and white silk continuations. Consequently the
Government of Australia provides a careful
definition of the word in the contract with the
Orient Pacific Company for the conveyance of
Australia’s mails: —
The homeward voyage (that is, to the United King-
dom).
The outward voyage (that is, from the United King-
dom).
Australia may borrow John Bull’s money, and
hire John Bull’s ships, and even import John
Bull’s submerged tenth ; it may be in a bad way,
and may be feeling mean—but surely it might be
allowed just for once to think of itself as “Home”
in its own mail contract.
Australia’s affable, placid Prime Minister
the other evening made this admission to Crouch,
M.P.: —
Britain has failed to keep her part of the Naval Agree-
ment bargain of ’O3, in that she has provided only one in
place of the two second-class cruisers stipulated for, while
Australia has promptly paid its tribute and kept its word.
And then the affable Prime Minister proceeded to
say that, of course, the Government didn’t think
it possible for Britain to commit a breach of the
agreement—Britain had just overlooked things,
apparently, or hadn’t remembered, or was busy
thinking of something else, or would fulfil the
agreement by-and-bye when it had time. The
cold hard fact that it had committed a breach of
the agreement Deakin was far too affable to admit.
But Deakin can’t go on being affable to the hare
and the hounds indefinitely, and some day the
hare will have to ask him to make up his mind
which side he is going to run with.
Prime Minister Deakin half threatens to
do something with the tariff this session. What’s
the matter with—
(l) Passing a Standing Order providing for the closure
of debate in order to suppress stonewalling.
(2) Introducing a Tariff Bill of one clause: “ All cus-
toms duties are hereby doubled.”
Then the Government might introduce, at the
beginning of next session, a new and elaborate
Tariff Bill, providing for duties on many things
now on the free list. A complete Tariff Bill
would, of course, be stonewalled, argued and
debated down to the last comma by the crowd
which is hired to destroy Australian industry for
the benefit of the importers, and despite all
standing orders it might, coming at the fag-end of
the session, be talked to death. But with a
closure rule, a Bill doubling existing duties in one
short yelp could be put through in two days.
After all the pitiful maundering of B.
Smith and the other people who have been
deluging this country with questions about hats,
and wailing over the shameful treatment meted
out by Minister Lyne to the importers of
the 1000 Panama that were said not to be
Panamas at all, the Customs Department proved
its case up to the hilt. The hats were first entered
at £54 13s. Id. the lot; then the importer’s invoice
valued them at £5O 3s. Id. ; yet, though a ring of
the chief importers refrained from tendering, an
offer of £lOB 3s. 4d., plus the duty on that valua-
tion, was made and accepted. So the importer
gets 10 per cent, more than he said the hats were
worth, which is mighty good business for a cash
transaction ; while the Commonwealth has about
£5O more to pass on to the States than if the
£5O 3s. Is. invoice hadn’t met the Lyne in its
path.
From the press gallery :
The House of Representatives, with much frothy de-
clamation, gave £25,000 of the taxpayers’ money to
help erect a memorial to the lately dead British Queen.
King O’Malley pointed out that the lamented lady had in
her lifetime drawn some £38,000,000 from the British
exchequer, but his remarks were received with a pained
frown. M’Donakl suggested spending the money on a
hospital, but was lectured for his presumption by Wilks,
who stated, perspiring with loyalty : “I willingly vote
the money, leaving it to those in control to put it to the
best use.” The total cost of the scheme, designed to
glorify the approaches to Buckingham Palace, will
be £1,000,000. “Think how much of it will be
spent in wages!” Langdon Bonython piped. Joe
Cook remarked: “It is a unique occasion. There
has been only one Queen reigning for 60 years over the
Empire.” Joe Cook further alleged that the late Queen
was associated with the abolition of slavery—for which
an Act was passed four years before she began to reign—
and that she had repeatedly saved the Empire from being
“ plunged into fratricidal war.” Then Willis and G. B.
Edwards and Wilks and Cook used such expressions as
“great and good,” “wise and glorious,” and all the
traditional adjectives, and Storrer reached the lowest
depth by appealing to Parliament: “ Vote the money, or
we will have a much worse name in the Old Land than we
have now.” Parliament then voted it.
Some recently published correspondence
re the Federal capital reveals certain curious
doings on the part of the soured and puerile
Carruthers. Here are some of the points:—
(1) A N.S.W. official appointed for the purpose recom-
mended the Monaro district as the best place for a
capital.
(2) The N.S.W. Government reserved from further
alienation the State lands in certain sites, including
Bombala and Dalgety (both on the Monaro), pending a
selection.
(3) The Australian Parliament selected the Dalgety site
in the district recommended by the N.S.W. official who
was specially appointed to report on the matter.
(4) Carruthers denied that the Dalgety site had been
reserved, and was bowled out.
(5) He refused to surrender it (a) because it was too
valuable, and later (6) because it was a poor, miserable
spot, and quite unfit for a capital.
(6) He induced the N.S.W. Assembly to refuse to sur-
render the Dalgety site. . _
(7) Prime Minister Deakin communicated with Car-
ruthers, asking for the Dalgety site for a Federal capital.
(8) Four days later Carruthers wrote back that he was
going to cancel the reservation of Dalgety as a possible
site for the capital—this after his previous denial that
there had ever been any such reservation.
How is it possible to do business on any rational
Erinciples with such a soured and snarling small
oy as Joey Carruthers?


W./i.RauNG C? lj?, §5B George sS?, sSvdnev.
Importers of Pianos,Organs <a Musical Instruments, Brisbane 4 Newcastle
1
Piano
Notes
/hr
Piano
Buyers.
Buy
K>ur
P/ano
at
Pa/injs.
You'//
Get
Va/ue
foryor/r
Money, ;
And
A//tAe
Attest
Patents
As we//
fine
Tone
anc/
Good
7ouc/i.
7Yiey
Stand
/n7une
/n any
C//mate.
So/c/
on
1/ery
Sasy
7er/ns.
O/c/
P/a/ios
TaAen
/n
PrcAanJe
Send
/or
our
/ree
Cata/o/ue
PJS L
Jnl JL*/
iL
N O \S
Buy an
Edison
Standard
Phonograph
By Blail!
dfg
IT’S easy to buy by mail—quick and
safe. You can depend on getting the
best instrument your money will buy if you
send your order to us. The Standard
Phonograph is one of Edison’s best instru-
ments. It’s music is loud, clear and abso-
lutely natural. Its rendering of the voices
of famous singers is perfect.
Fill this form in and post to us. We will
then send you our Catalogue.
Name
Address
BUY ONE
BY MAIL
PRICE-
-50/
OTHER
PRICES
FROM
20,000 RECORDS TO SELECT FROM.
PRICES, Is. 6d. each ; 17s, dozen.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd
“MY OPTICIANS
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (facing Royal Hotel).
<yiti j
Carpets,
Furniture,
Curtains, &c.,
CLEANED WITHOUT
REMOVAL . . .
BY THE
Simpson & Barton
SUCTION DUST
EXTRACTOR,
Office: 14 O'CONNELL ST.
SYDNEY.
Telephone 2377.
S-S?” Write or Telephone us and our
representative will- call.
LLER
m
m
jsa
OSTRICH PLUMES
Black, White, Creami
Natural, or Black
tipped with White.
5/'
Length, 12 inches.
Pust free.
The Feathers we offer
you cannot be bought
for twice the money
in any other house.
They are the best value ever offered
in Australia. Buy to-day, or write
for one. Send Postal Note or Money
Order to John Mi.ler.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST POST FREE.
sdf
gsd
fgsd
OSTRICH TIPS,
From the Farms of Africa.
Black, White,
Cream, or Black
tipped with White.
Length 10 Inches..
3 for 10/-
There’s a charm about
Miller’s Ostrich Tips no
other trimming can impait.
Natural Ostrich Boas, 21s. Length 1$ yards.
fg
sdf
gsdf
From the
Famous Farms
of South Africa.
Black, White.
Civam, Natural,
or Black aud
White mixed.
(15 inches)
10/6
Post
Free
There is practi-
cally nothing
more becoming
to the average woman than the
soft setting given her face and
head by really good feathers.
A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY.
gsd
This New
Fashionable Mount,
2 Tips with Osprey,
Black, Cream, or
Black tipped with
White.
3/
The Bunch.
Post free.
We make this SPECIAL
OFFER to advertise out
Ostricli Tips. Write to-
day. Send Fostal Note.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
~ , T .. at Corncr Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Address Letters to Department P. ' ° [Mention Tuk Bulletin.]
SI
?
Qmp
V
mi
Si§n
NICOLE ——fc-
UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NKOLEPNONES
TWO SPECIAL g
INSTRUMENTS *
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
The Colonial, and
The New Standard.
W, G, KING,
SOLE
AGENT.
316 George St.,
SYDNEY.


mi
am
Cable Address—
PASTIME, SYDNEY.
M. J. MOLONEY,
Tattersall’s Club 9
SYDNEY.
» ■■■ -
COMMISSIONS Executed.
fg
LONGEST MARKET RATES
GUARANTEED.
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations.
fr/oo Llats forwarded on App/loatlon .
Telegraphic Address—
MOLONEY, Tattersail's,
SYDNEY.
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
. Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
“ O.” : In a history of the Chow-labor war
which Australian booksellers are trying bard to
get off their hands, I read of Highland soldiers
swearing “by clan and kilt ” to loot a Boer farm,
or something. It beats me to understand why an
absurd, accordeon-pleated garment s b°^ lc L,
special sacredness. As far as I can see, the r lying
Demons might just as well swear “by pus
and pants ” to wreck the next plate-glass windo
with exceptional thoroughness.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Unless the Derby race on Saturday results in a
surprise from Jas. Wilson’s or Pay-ten’s stable, there is
very little probab.lity of the winner springing to a short
price for the Melbourne Cup. In this scribe’s opinion
Lady Wallace will win the Derby from Charles Stuart and
Scotland, and if the blue ribbon goes to the filly, who
has no engagement in the Cup, the three-year-olds will
look more than ever like a neglectable quantity for the
big handicap on Tuesday. Or if Lady Wallace goes down
before Charles Stuart or Scotland, or both of them, her
defeat will not alter the fact that the rather leggy
Scotland is of doubtful stamina for the Cup. The 3-vear-
old most likely to come into Cup notice through its
Derby running is Circuit, a strongly-bred colt in
Wilson’s stable, but it will have to finish ahead
of Lady Wallace in a fast run race before it will
be reckoned dangerous for the Cup. All things
considered it is not advisable to think seriously about the
Derby horses for next Tuesday’s race. Last year Blinker
made a good bid for the Cup after running “ nowhere ”
in the Derby-, but there are no good grounds for suspect-
ing that another Blinker will be sprung upon the public.
The Hotham Handicap has sometimes foretold
a Cup winner. If Blue Spec, Aurate, and Scot' Free
are hacked for Hotham Handicap, the winner of that
always interesting event should be worth considering for
the Cup: Perhaps Scot Free will be good enough to take
the minor trick on Saturday.
And as to the Melbourne Gup. Take the follow-
ing as the pick of the lot without pausing to consider
whether the rest of the field have any chances among
them : Maniopoto, Tartan, Warroo, Gladsome, Emir,
Marvel Loch, Scot Free, Toran, Blue Spec, Overdale,
Circuit, Roller, Aurate, and Scotland. Gladsome,
although much fancied by Sol Green a while
ago, is open to the objection that she has never yet
proved herself a great mare over a longer distance than 10
furlongs. The handicapper treats her as being 11 lbs. below
Emir at two miles, and although this seems a liberal allow-
ance, it is probably-not too much. Emir occasionally shows
stamina, and he is expected to excel himself next Tuesday
when he will have tog-ive 121 b. to Maniopoto and 81b. to
Tartan, not to mention lighter-weighted horses. He is
not worth backing to do it—at the price. He may beat
Gladsome and Marvel Loch (another doubtful stayer) in
any case, but even should he run the kindest race of his
life, this splendid galloper would probably get beaten by
the weight. And the odds against Emir running gamely
are fully 8 to 1, whereas some of the others are always in
a good mood.
Tartan and Warroo, in the same stable, repre-
sent the most trustworthy “ form ” of all the Cup
favorites. Tartan ran second in the Sydney Metropolitan
last year, and he won the Sydney Cup six months later,
proving- himself a stayer. Warroo also ran second for a
Metrop. before filling that honorable position behind
Marvel Loch at Caulfield the other Saturday. Of the two
stable companions Warroo looks the more likely to shine
in wet weather, when the going is heavy, but Tartan has
higher pretensions, on appearance and achievements, to
win a Cup in ordinary Cup time. The market on the
morning of the race should indicate which of the pair
carries the stable’s fondest hopes. The writer prefers
Tartan on the ground that, in winning a great two-mile
race, he actually did what Warroo has not yet tried to do.
Nevertheless, it is hard to believe Tartan capable
of giving weight away to Maniopoto, the horse that
brilliantly won the Metrop. at a time when his com-
rade gees from Maoriland were doing as they pleased
with the Australian opposition. Maniopoto’s “form” in
this country has certainly been eccentric, but if an
animal’s “uncertainty” is to be urged against his Cup
chance, how about Emir ? How about a dozen others, not
one of whom has ever put up a performance fit to be men-
tioned in the same paragraph as Maniopoto’s recent vic-
tory at Randwick ?
* ■ • •
Overdale is pretty certain to be running on
When many of them are slowing down. Scot Free, who
unluckily fell in the Caulfield Cup, has a chance over the
longer course, likewise Roller and Aurate, and any Derby
winner other than Lady Wallace. Indeed, the bold show
made by Aurate at the business end of the Moonee Valley
Cup last Saturday won considerable respect for the son of
Auraria. Torah seemed to tire in the Caulfield Cup,
nevertheless the natty little colt may prove a sticker next
Tuesday, and no devout student of the Racing Chronicle
can ignore him. Taking seven against the field, this scribe
names Maniopoto, Tartan, Emir, Warroo, Scot Free, Torah,
and Aurate, placing
Maniopoto 1
Aurate 2
Scot Free 3
Tartan 4
* * * *
Now is the time of portents. Last week a man
a-few doors from this office brought home a peacock, and
the noise that bird makes is deafening and horrible.
Several deputations waited on the owner, and offered
him drinks to suppress the nuisance. He was obdurate.
Then the staff noticed that every time the bird shrieked
it said “ War—roo ! ” A syndicate was formed to work
on the revelation of the oracle, and the bird has been put
in the cellar lest he should spoil the market by giving too
many people the tip. # ,
There seems to be a popular delusion that the
second horse in the Caulfield Cup has often succeeded in
winning the Melbourne Cup. As a matter of fact,
Acrasia last year was the rare exception to the rule as
regards Caulfield seconds. Within 21 years one winner of
the Caulfield has been the runner-up in the Flemington
race, and one has scored a first and third. Three horses
have been second in both Cups. Two of the Caulfield
thirds have won the Melbourne, and Acrasia, as aforesaid,
scored a second at Caulfield, and a win in the longer race.
Out of the 63 gees placed in the Caulfield Cup during
those 21 years only nine have been placed for the Mel-
bourne Cup. This year promises to add at least one more
to the list— but figures are more trustworthy than mere
fancies, anyhow.
* » * *
The attack on the V.R.0., caused by its refusal
of Wren’s horse nominations, has cleared the air of sundry
complaints that were laid against the racing club. From
time to time the V.R.C. was howled at on behalf of the
crowd that swarms to the Flemington Flat free of charge.
“Why didn’t the club consider the wants of the poor
Flatites ? ” was asked by people who wouldn’t have the
gall to ask why the Melbourne Cricket Club doesn’t open
its gates to the non-paying public when a test match is
being played. Both clubs hold their land under Govern-
ment grant, and both of them have three sorts of reserves
—for members, for grand-standers, and for the minimum-
priced public. The V.R.C. has now formally explained
to the Government that it differs from all the other big
racing clubs in not being privileged to charge for ad-
mission to the Flat, which at Caulfield is a two-shilling
reserve. Also, it does provide some accommodation for
the folks who get there gratis. The Flat has been levelled
and improved every year. A water T supply has been laid
on, and “ retiring ” places are available, and a tote would
be available if legalised. A free stand-building
is out of the question, for it would block the
view of the races for those who pay to see the
show ; moreover, it would kill the business by making
the Flat more attractive than the reserves, where the
view of the racing is more distant. Then there was an-
other complaint that the club had “ taken away’’from
the public the rising ground on the far side of the Salt-
water River, formerly the resort of picnickers on Cup Day.
Why should the autocratic V.R.C. seize the land that had
been so long utilised by joyous family parties for
Cup-seeing purposes? The committee explained firstly
that this background to the show had been disfigured by
a crop of advertisement boards proclaiming the virtues of
various beers and boots and things. Secondly, the
ground was a menace to the.interests' of the show, seeing
that the owner who let the advertisement spaces was at
liberty to sell it to a speculator, who might build a cheap
stand thereon and charge the public a shilling or two per
head for an entertainment which he didn’t provide. So
the club-bought that land, and having bought it, didn’t
choose to leave it open to deadheads. It is not expected
to be any more of a philanthropist than Williamson or
MusgrOve.
° • * * •
Membership of some of the Melbourne shops—
vaguely described as “certain betting clubs”—appears
to be charged with exciting possibilities just now. Mem-
bers suspected of being traitors in the camp are visited by
a.vigilance Gonunittee at their private residences, and are
either searched, there and then, for incriminating evi-
dence of their dangerousness, or are lured to the shop by
false pretences, locked in a room, and threatened with
various sorts of violence by the agents for the ruling
powers. One of these intimidation “ clubs” has obtained
a list of -names of candidates for the malodorous police
force, and any would-be myrmidons of the Law who
belong to the “ club ” are promptly black-listed.
The Cornstalk season will comprise three big
meetings at Sydney Cricket Ground under the « anage-
ment of the Summer Nights Syndicate. The tiust was due
last evening when this paper was weltering through the
machines, and there are still a couple of evenings to go
The second meeting- will take place in January, and its
biggest prize will be the Summer Wheel Race, ihe thud
will be the supreme effort, and be held in March, when
the great Svdney Thousand, the richest cycle handicap
in the world, will no doubt produce the usual crop of
scandals.
* * * *
To very many people the most interesting
feature of the Cycling Carnival that opened last night at
Sydney Cricket Ground will be the five-miles race with
which each evening'’s sport is to close. Maoriland s crack
road racers, the Arnst Brothers (J. and K.), will compete
in them, and it’s worth proing- a long way to see big* Jack
hurl himself through the atmosphere, while brother Dick
is not calculated to bore anybody either.
♦ * * 9
Sydney Telegraph recently remarked that
with the advent of improved motors in Australia we take
considerable interest in big- performances on similar
machines “at home.” Then it went on to describe what
happened at a race in Paris. The Telegraph is *at
home ” in any country but Australia.
* a *
It is about time cyclist Floyd MacFarland gave
up winning all the big handicap races with his mouth.
This paper is willing to admit right here that Floyd Mac-
Farland can outskite any three Australians, and some of
them are no duffers at the game either. If the elongated
American could only ride as well as he can brag', what a
sack of boodle he would take back to the States!
* ■* * *
Now understood that Don Walker, finding that
those parts of him which hold him off the ground are
“ better than ever,” will reconsider his decision to retire
from the cycling track. In his time, the Victorian has
scooped over £3OOO in prizes, and, having won 11 out of
14 scratch events lately, he begins to thinn the talk of
retirement w-as somewhat premature. But then there
was never any doubt about his legs—it’s his tail that’s
weak. Once the rear man has passed him, Don’s
tail has a tendency to fall right down and get tangled
among the spokes of his back wheel. If he can only
stiffen his caudal appendage, he will probably win a lot
more money before he is played out.
* * * *
There’s trouble over that swimming exhibition
in the Seine at Paris. The French people had arranged
an exhibition, hot a race, of the finest' swimmers in the
world, and with the exception of Kieran they all seem to
have been there, including our own Annette Kellermann,
of whom the gallant Gauls made a tremendous fuss. They
entered the water at different times, and though speed
records were noted, it was not a competition, and the
amateurs reckoned that they would be quite safe. Now
they find that they reckoned without the English National
Swimming Association, and that body has opened the ball
by declaring Billington, the English crack, a professional.
Bill, has lodged an appeal.
* * * *
The Ford-Towns sculling match at Raymond
Terrace on November 11th is attracting some attention.
Both men are training hard, and although young Towns
has so far impressed the spectators most, Ford and his
party are in no way dispirited. Towns dropped his boat
on the stones last week, and brother George having sent
up his own shell for training purposes, has set to work
vigorously to build a new boat in which Arthur will
endeavor to uphold the family bay leaves.
The closing day of the third round of Sydney
First Grade cricket was not remarkable for the batting.
With the exception of Mackay’s 147 not out for Burwood,
and L. Pye’s 122 for Central Cumberland, the scores were
small all round. Mackay’s 147 was a savage attack on
the bowling, and he lashed out at everything that came
within reach, lifting two right out of the ground. Pye,
too, swung the timber in great style, and eventually
met his fate through over-eagerness. Stepping out to
meet a leg-break he missed, and was promptly stumped.
* * * V
Joe Darling has been “denying” again—in
fact, Joe seems to do little else these times but go round
and deny things about the Australian XI. His latest
repudiation is the amount of the “make”; Joe is
emphatic that the rumored profit of £9OO per man is quite
incorrect. It would clear up a great litter of mystery,
and save Joe Darling a lot of wear and tear of jaw, if he
would publish a balance-sheet, or at least state exactly
what each man did make.
* * + »
Batch No. 1 of the last Australian XI. home-
returning stragglers reached Sydney last week, and
returned Captain Darling’s whitewashing with praise-
worthy promptness. Apparently, the bucket of white-
wash and the large brush form part of each kit-bag in
lieu of missing ashes. Denials of rumored dissensions are
also liberally strewn round. F'eminine accompaniments
have sown seeds of discord in more than one previous
cricketing invasion of England, and ’tis said that the
latest venture was not the luckiest in that regard. Some
day the articles of agreement will contain a clause that
members must travel in a state of grass bachelorhood.
* * * *
Said that cricket has seen the last of Syd.
Gregory. A few more of the last syndicate could be
spared with somewhat lees regret.
* * * *
Tyldesley and Hayes did not get any of the
consideration that seems to have been shown to
Armstrong- in the matter of making a season’s aggregate
of 2000 runs. In the last match of the year Rhodes got
them both out when they wanted 6 and 3 respectively of
the 20 centuries.
» » * *
The result of the Police Charities Carnival,
held at Melbourne Exhibition Building in April last, sug-
gests that the present Force should be converted into a
travelling circus, and a new Force should be created for
law’n’order purposes. The business management of
Melbourne police entertainments is beyond reproach.
This Charities Carnival yielded £lBOO, against total
expenses £384 (including only £9 for refreshments). The
hospitals got £l4OO out of the fund. At about the same
time some of the horsey toffs of Toorak held a gymkhana
at the Exhibition Building, and although they had the
advantage of the Easter Monday holiday and considerable
sectarian support, their profit is understood to have come
out at £6O. The public are not likely to bite at any more
gymkhana.
* * * *
The Australasian Amateur Athletic Champion-
ships meeting will be held in. Sydney on the 11th and 13th
of this month. Victoria has already selected half-a-dozen
of its representatives, and will choose the rest within the
week. Those already decided on are G. Blake End W. F.
Steele for the one and three miles; G. A. Wheatley for
the quarter, half and one mile. N. F. Burrows will also
compete in the half and one mile.- H. Duigan will look
after the high and long jumps and J. Pattinson the pole
jump and 120 yd. hurdles.
* * * *
Nigel Barker, the Sydney University flier who
beat Duffey, was born a few thousand years too late.
Had he lived in the days of the Olympiads he would have
been a bigger man than Edward VII., and been entitled
to walk round in the hot days dressed only in his bay-
wreath and sandals.
The late Golden Gate bruising hall is now a
running' track, and will be opened by a meeting of pro-
fessionals on the 6th of this month, when a big entry is
anticipated. A running track right in the heart of the
city should fill a long-felt want. Queensland seems to be
the happy home just now of the professional athlete. At
Mount Morgan, a meeting has been arranged for New
Year’s Day, when the “ Mt. Morgan Hundred ” will be the
chief attraction. At Bundaberg, prizes ranging from £4O
to the modest fiver will be scattered around. Charters
Towers recently had a “ Hundred,” and Townsville last
week had a £5O handicap and a youths’ handicap worth
£2o ’ . » *
The Sydney Yacht Squadron, which attempted
to open the season a fortnight previously, managed to
accomplish the feat on Saturday, in spite of a wind that
was downright horrible. The event of the day was an
All Yachts Handicap for prizes presented by the club
commodore, Mr. James Fairfax. Eight started. Culwulla
and Fairlie went off with a beautiful bound. Sunbeam,
Fleetwing and Oithona made a bad beginning. Off
Bradley’s Head a sudden squall struck the fleet, and the
struggle with the spinnakers jumbled things up beauti-
fullv, till Magic, with a top-sail shining like a fat cheque
on a sea of promissory notes, dashed out of the ruck and
led round the Head. Behind her came Culwulla,
Scotia, Sunbeam, Oithona and the tail. When the spin-
nakers re-appeared Oithona began to run past them, boat
after boat, till only Magic rocked away seven seconds in
front. Then Oithona got in front, and Culwulla ran past
Ma<’ ic. The end of the first round found Oithona first,
with Culwulla, Magic and Scotia in that order. Sunbeam
dropped out—it was no day for Sunbeams. On the second
run to Bradley’s Head the Magic came with a wonderful
burst of speed, passing Culwulla, but was unable to
overtake Oithona, which romped away from the whole
fleet, and finished nearly ten minutes ahead of the second
boat, Scotia. Culwulla and Magic dead-heated for third
P rize - ,
The Sydney sailing clubs want the Government
to resume the foreshores of Parsley Bay, Vaucluse, which
for years has been a favorite resort for sailing-men—on
Sundays particularly. The yachting clubs are holding
aloof, on the ground that the sailing club-members used
not to behave with decorum when they had the run of
the place. Though sometimes a rough “ talent ” would
spoil the pleasure of the majority, it is better that they
should be suppressed by the water police than the
decently-behaved should lose their playground. The
sailing crowd races on Saturdays and holidays, and con-
gregates at Parsley and other spots on the Sabbath, so
the parson crowd‘is against their petition. This will
probably settle its fate with Premier Carruthers.
That exceedingly fair and gentlemanly fighter
Peter Felix has arranged a bashing match with William
Squires. The matter at issue is the destination of a purse
worth £175, and the altercation will (D.V.) take place at
Sydney National Sporting Club on December 12th. This
writer, who usually avoids prophecy, ventures to predict
a very pretty scrap. # »
Yankee boxer Al. Neill, who broke his fist
fhditing with Willis (not the land agent—fighting our
redoubtable Nick would have broken the Yankee’s heart
and pocket too, in all probability) has gone to
California. He says he will come back again, with his
wife next time, to settle down.
* * * *
N.S.W. ex-Premier Twaddel received his knock-
out, as far as boxing was concerned, by the police report
on the Turner-Whitelaw upheaval. As soon as it became
evident that Turner had weakened so as to be unable to
properly defend himself, the referee gave the fight to
Whitelaw just as the police officer was about to stop
hostilities. Both the bruisers were medically examined
before and after the disturbance, and the badly-walloped
individual was declared to be unmarked, and as free
from injury as before the fight. His boiler gave out—
that was all.
* « * *
But if Australian fight promoters are-wise, they
will arrange for a set of Australian boxing rules in which
the kidney punch will be eliminated. Every other week
recently there have been exhibitions of kidney punching,
and the other day one man deliberately laid
himself out to bash an opponent, who is said to
suffer from kidney disease, round and over the
affected organs. Of course, the retort is that a man who
has kidney disease should not enter the ring ; but this
writer holds that the kidney region is one that should be
barred under the rules, just as the groin is. That it was
not barred was probably an oversight on the part of the
sturdy old Marquis, who never had back or any other
ache in his life. It is the only spot in which a chance
blow might inflict permanent injury that the thoughtful
old sport did overlook ; and the omission should be
remedied. If fight promoters don’t eliminate it, some
day the other side will start an agitation on the subject
which may kill the game. # t
Maoriland bruiser Griffin has been nicknamed
Maniopoto, probably on account of the lightning speed
with which he gets off his chair to the attack when the
gong sounds. In his return fight with Bert Clarke the
Maorilander kept himself fairly calm in the first three
rounds, and behaved with the polished indifference of a
Stoic. Then he got tired of pretending not to care, and
hurled himself through the atmosphere, whirling his fists
the meanwhile. The unfortunate Clarke, unable to get
out of the way, was struck about 17 times in as
many seconds, knocked down .several times, and beaten
all round the ring. Every time he 'rose to his feet a
whirlwind of meat fell on him, and by the sixth round he
was “ satisfied,” and so was his second, who handed in
the pale linen of defeat. What this writer wants .to see
is Griffin up against another whirler like himself. Then
a great wind will arise, and the dust-cloud will ascend to
heaven and obliterate the referee.
* * * *
The proverbially brief dog’s breakfast was a
lengthy function of eight courses interspersed with
music, compared to the return scrap between Martin and
Walcott, the latter being a genelman of color. The hos-
tilities took place at Sydney Gaiety Club on Saturday
night, and the first round terminated with Martin on the
floor, as the result of a right cross. The gong saved him.
When the signal for battle clanged once more Martin
rushed in like a wild elephant, but Walcott rushed also.
The trouble was that Walcott arrived at Martin before
Martin arrived at Walcott, consequently the former got
something hard and black in the middle of his counten-
ance, and was then banged hard and often round the
provision department. Martin reded against the ropes,
and Walcott came at him with whirling fists, but the Law
interfered, and the referee very promptly awarded Wal-
cott the money, for Martin was already beaten.’
**. * *
Melbourne’s weekly scrap at Queen’s Hall, on
the 23rd Oct., was between that busy feather-duster,
Paddy M'Mahon, out of the West, and Frank Silver, a
local product. Silver is probably one of the neatest ana
most gifted boxers in the Commonwealth, but, if people
who manage fights as public entertainments have tne
every-day sense of a mule, it will be a long time before he
gets "another opportunity to air his graces. Having boxea
brilliantly for a round and three-quarters, he carefully
took Mr. M’Mahon by the head and tossed him down.
The referee warned him, but he sought the earliest oppor-
tunity of repeating the act. He threw M’Mahon tour
times, and after so many bids for an adverse decision, ne
naturally got one. This is not the first fight in which
Silver has got an adverse decision in some such fasm ,
so his future displays will probably be in the absence oi
large and discriminating audiences.
AT [?]
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a drunk going home in a cab to-night, and I know
that that drunk is me,
As the hansom rolls ’neath the stars so white, with its
fare in an ecstasy !
Each pub. sprints by like a beery ghost, for the feet of
the mare are fast;
Ho ! I’ve got my knife in the Hebrew host, and I’ve
potted the “ books ” at last!
For I staked my shirt on Marvel Loch, at a sweet old ten-
to-one—
May the angels fodder that noble crock when her last good
race is run !
May her trainer sit in the heavenly- stalls, with a special
hymn to sing—
May her owner stroll through the jasper halls, and be
hailed there as a king.
Long years have I poured my precious cash in the gaping
bags of Mo ;
Hooray for the jock in the light chrome sash who hath
laid my Ikey low !
Hooray for the chestnut six-year-old that has gravelled
the angry Yid,
Who hath freighted me with his gladsome gold to the
tune of a hundred quid !
I’ll pay my bills—there are twenty-nine—and I’ll buy the
wife new clothes,
In the d.c. row she shall far outshine the daughters of
Isaac Nose.
She’s a dam fine girl with a dam fine neck, and I’ll buy her
a bangle too ;
She shall have her share of the lovely cheque that I’ve
torn from the moaning Jew !
Ho ! I’ll buy that pup that I like so much, and I’ll pay my
long club score,
I’ll free my ticker from Uncle’s clutch (I would fain shed
Uncle’s gore).
I’ll dine the boys in glorious style, and we’ll drink at a
hundred bars ;
And I’ll treat myself—well, I should smile !—to a box of
the best cigars.
We’ll paint the city a bright, bright red (and business can
rip the while),
And we’ll hie us forth and awake the dead (and the dead
shall awake in style).
We’ll go to the play at night with girls who are not our
propertee,
And if the result should be a fight that fight will be great
to see.
There’s a drunk going home in — hie —cab to-night, and I
know that — hie—drunk is me,
As the hansom rolls ’neath the stars so white, with, its fare
in a hie-’stasy !
Each pub sprints by like a — hie—old ghost, tor the feet of
the mare are fast;
Ho, I’ve got my knife in the—hie —Brew host, and I've
potted the — hie—at last.
Ho! I bet my — hie—upon Marvel Loch, at a noble ten-to-
one —
May the angels fodder—hie —noble crock when her last
good race is icon !
May her trainer sit in — hie—heavenly stalls, with a
special hymn to sing-
May her owner stroll through — hie—jasper halls and be
hailed there as a king.
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


Missing: Friends.
IF THOMAS JOHNSON SANDERSON,
son of Isaac Sanderson, will communicate
with The Trustees, Executors & Agency Co.,
Ltd., of 412 Collins Street, Melbourne, he will
hear of something to his advantage.
I' INGS, ALFRED EDWlN.— Legacy left
J you by uncle now payable. Please com-
municate at once with your brother, or with
BLAKE and RIGGALL, Solicitors, 120 Wiiliam-
street, Melbourne.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con*
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comror and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon afield Parade
SI HILDA.
T'HE Largest and best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
ill
lac*,**
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
W'"?P? LE ’ S ge O r GE HOTEL, opposite St.
’ Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
ft?”,?* Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
C. STR ATM ANN’S *
FINE....
Made on the
Premises
CHOCOLATES «»a
SWEETHEATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
MOUNTCASTLE’S,
BIA'TTEiaS.
NEW ADDRESS^*
305 <acorg? St., Sydoey.
GENT’S GOOD HATS.
THE CHICAGO & WINTER
GARDEN TEA ROOMS,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Largest and Most Fashionable
Tea Rooms in Australasia.
ENTIRELY RE-DECORATED and UPHOLSTERED.
AFTERNOON TEA, TABLE D’HOTE and A LA CARTE.
Early Luncheon During Race Week.
Dinners a Speciality. Open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
S
VeryOldVatted.
LiqueurWhisky.
Distilled ScßottJcd by
Kilmarnock .Scotland.
D?BAGSHAWS
VITAL FORCE TABLETS
THE latest^jbesttohic
m
&
&
Vi
EASY
TO
CARRY,
EASYtoTAKF
%!-
pep Box
8f 50 TABLETS
tfnof procurdETe /ocd/fy m/V
Vepos fed on rece/pt of 2/Jdy
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUE TOSYDNE
The Very First
Polish ""
is the polish that is given to ladies’ and
children’s shoes by HAUTHAWAY’S
Peerless
Gloss *
which is known the world over as the
finest shoe-polishing preparation ever oro-
duced. Not only dues it polish better than
any other polish, but it is good for the
leather—softens it, makes itcoinorta a e to
the foot, and has such protective and pre-
servative qualities that shoes upon which
it is used last much longer than they
otherwise would. Not sticky, but p'easant
to use, and gives a gloss of great brilliance.
Sold at all Boot Stores.
Be sure to ask for Hauthavvay’s. '
C. L. Hauthaway & Sons, 346, Congress
Street Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Preliminary
Announcements.
ADVANCE NATIONAL ASPIRATIONS.
- ADVANCE NATIVE INDUSTRIES.
Exhibition of Australian Made Goods & Australian Productions
AGRICULTURAL GROUNDS, SYDNEY
OPENS DECEMBER 20th, 1905,
For FOUR WEEKS DAILY TILL 10 p.m.
M. A. MARTIN, General Secretary,
134 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. McGUIRE, Organising Secretary.
’Piionb 1499.
The Pen Carbon Letter Book.
n
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,^
A SHEET OF PAPER
AND A PEN CARBON BOOK
S’ le Agents tor
Australasia:
Makes a complete outfit with wiiich any MAN, WOMAN or CITTr,D can write a letter, and at the same
time make' an exact copy without leaving the slightest sign of copying on the original.'
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of oraei‘3, receipts, bank- cheques. It leaves no vague,
. uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
It will save any house or family much money by its indisputable record.
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE.
Agent for Victoria—ANDßEW SHERAR & CO., 101-103 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
EIGHT-HOUR Demonstration, 1905
ART UNION.
RESULT OF DRAWING.
Prize
No.
Win-
ning
No.
Prize
No.
ning
No.
Prize
No.
Win-
ning
No.
Win-
Prize ning
No. No.
Prize
No.
Win-
ning
No.
Prize
No.
ning
No.
Prize
No,
Win-
ning
No.
Prize
No.
Win-
ning
No.
1 .. 123933
2 .. 160357
3 .. 155304
4 .. 33517
6.. 74211
6 .. 41488
7 .. 136356
8 .. 78053
9 .. 2939
10 .. 122540
11 .. 74994
12 .. 172271
13 .. 32003
14 .. 160960
15 .. 131387
16 .. 136898
17 .. 173969
18 .. 36002
19 .. 137220
20 .. 61071
21 .. 107167
22 .. 86857
23 .. 75169
24 .. 150310
25 .. 67026
51 .. 122955
52 .. 151095
53 .. 31950
54 .. 129378
55 .. 65264
56 .. 83317
57 . 98517
58 .. 129959
59 .. 152819
60 .. 51028
61 .. 6653
62 .. 104474
63 .. 122762
64 .. 125087
65 .. 116259
66 .. 160945
67 .. 27980
68 .. 148057
69 .. 148734
70 .. 46315
71 .. 30847
72 .. 49622
73 .. 107097
74 .. 137516
75 .. 90509
76 .. 131026
77 .. 5410
78 .. 1071
79 .. 19455
80 .. 113220
81 .. 88756
82 .. 59797
83 .. 125633
84 .. 106267
85 .. 5022
86 .. 12749
87 .. 8305
88 .. 156288
89 .. 29171
90 .. 51292
91 .. 133088
92 .. 73302
93 .. 43653
94 .. 158551
95 .. 147631
96 .. 52094
97 .. 87607
98 .. 63457
99 .. 130293
100 .. 169956
101 .. 19025
102 .. 100426
103 .. 8805
104 .. 149695
105 .. 125758
106 .. 105367
107 .. 28606
108 .. 55292
109 .. 45326
110 .. 144033
111 .. 103232
112 .. 138700
113 .. 62606
114 .. 110148
115 .. 94499
116 .. 84831
117 .. 106430
118 ..' 81584
119 .. 62621
120 .. 14421
121 .. 76533
122 .. 84552
123 .. 38302
124 .. 37402
125 .. 143176
126 .. 109525
127 .. 156622
128 .. 114154
129 .. 114764
130 .. 137556
131 .. 64752
132 .. 79298
133 .. 162989
134 .. 1243
135 .. 90369
136 .. 151937
137 .. 85270
138 .. 140073
139 .. 172841
146 .. 81155
141 .. 68859
142 .. 12218
143 .. 150571
144 .. 78337
145 ... .144887
146 .. 30459
147 .. 156905
148 .. 137466
149 .. 114416
150 .. 104551
151 .. 150529
152 .. 152190
153 .. 122228
154 .. 107514
155 .. 140244
156 .. 169090
157 .. 139650
158 .. 27532
159 .. 72471
160 .. 150475
161 .. 118955
162 .. 130560
163 .. 35811
164 .. 115801
165 .. 155530
166 .. 132432
167 ..
168 ..
169 ..
170 ..
171 ..
172 ..
173 ..
174 ..
175 ..
176 ... 51493
177 .. 119185
178 ... 90583
179 .. 101155
180 . 28741
181 .. 3406
182 .. 122027
183 .. 39572
184 .. 149276
185 .. 74353
186 .. 69323
187 .. 81795
188 .. 57608
189 .. 82295
190 .. 47509
191 .. 166077
192 .. 64993
193... 154383
194 .. 156306
351
117338
37259
96655
51116
61256
6236
65245
128276
122142
2024
55036
99740
91501
75187
195 ..
196
197 ..
198 ..
199 ..
200 ..
We, the undersigned, hereby certify that we have this day witnessed the Drawing of the above Art Union, and
declare the same has been conducted in a proper manner, and with absolute fairness.
(Signed)
PATRICK McGARRY, M.P.
H. GORDON, Sunday Times.
H. R. LEAR, Daily Telegraph.
Trades Hall, Oot. 28, 1905.
DAVID YOUNG, Senior Constable.
W. EYLES, D.C.R., A.O. Foresters.
EDWARD RILEY, M.C.A.
ALLAN McDOUGA LL, Secretary.
oas
m
r£
mk
\ ,
H J W
m
great fflotor Contest
THE Second DUNLOP RELIABILITY
MOTOR CONTEST will be held from
Melbourne to Sydney (572 miles) on Novem-
ber 14th to 18th, 1905. The Contest promises
to be one of the leading sporting events of the
year. Twenty-eight Cars—including the finest
and most powerful in the Commonwealth—
intend contesting for the “DUNLOP CUP”
and the Motor Road Blue Riband of Aus-
tralia. The Motor Cycle section will also
attract considerable interest—ten of the lead-
ing motor cyclists having signified their
intention of taking part in the competition.
We are printing a 24-page programme, giving
every particular in respect to the Contest.
This Booklet will interest you.
50,000 Programmes
OF THE
(Junlop |||otor (Jontest
now ready for distribution.
Anyone can obtain a copy
on application, or we will
post you a copy of this 24-
page Booklet on receipt of
your name and address and
a penny stamp to cover cost
of postage.
Apply for a Copy at Once.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus., Ltd.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
148-150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
117 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
268-270 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
617 Hay Street, Perth.
128 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z.
S 3
A cigarette fiend changed the subject
somewhat at Golden Gully, Bendigo, a few Sun-
days ago, by gyrating before the early church-
goers, clothed in some loud shrieks and an open
razor. By the time the police were on his track,
he had tumbled down a 12ft. shaft, and was dis-
covered at the bottom digging up the mud and
devouring it. One of the constables beguiled the
lunatic to the surface by offering to fight him for
a fairly large sum. He arrived with great alacrity,
'and put up a willing ten seconds against over-
whelming odds. After that, the lunacy ward re-
ceived him, and there he remains up to the pre-
sent, talking mostly about cigarettes.
N.S.W. Full Court has again tried to
decide what a place is. A Sydney bookie was
charged with betting in a lane off King-street, and
when the case came on a policeman gazed hard at
a plan of the locality, and swore that a certain
dab marked A represented a spot in the lane on
which the bookie did habitually and continually
plant himself and trade. Whereupon the concen-
trated legal mind decided that the said bookie
was sufficiently long in one spot to make the
locality he occupied a “place,” and remitted the
case back to the magistrate who had ruled that he
wasn’t in a “place,” but"who did not say how he
managed it. Unless the High Court upsets this
decision, a bookmaker will not be safe in con-
ducting a betting business in a public lane unless
he prances up and down all the time, but if he
keeps on the move he will be all right.
The squeamish folk now squealing against
any “compulsory” system of military training
probably don’t know that by Federal law the
Governor-General has power in time of war to
call out every able-bodied male in the Common-
wealth. All that is proposed now is that
they shall be trained for that call.
“ Heroism of John Smith ” was one of the
headlines in the account of the grievous Maitland
(N.S.NV.) colliery disaster of last Sunday. He
was the man who carried away the dynamite in an
off-hand fashion under his arm while the mine was
exploding like a 4th of July oration. When a
man named John Smith is a hero (and quite a
number of John Smiths are) he is generally a
perfectly unobtrusive person who didn’t realise
that he had done anything remarkable till he saw
it in the papers. Compared with the hero of a
Blandolt melodrama he puts on no chest measure-
ment worth mentioning.
The manager of Mort’s Dock (Sydney) voiced
another grievance against the lamentable Aus-
tralian tariff last week, when the new Manly boat
was launched. Mort’s Dock built the new vessel,
but owing to the backward state of the iron indus-
try here, several important parts of the machinery
had to be imported. On these there is a duty
which the dock had to pay, whereas if the ship
had steamed into the harbor as a going concern
there would have been no duty whatever. The
inference is that we want a big iron industry of
our own, and a duty of at least 20 per cent, on im-
ported ships.


INTERSTATE MAIL ORDERS
receive our immediate attention. All Goods are sent Post Free to any
address without the slightest CUSTOMS bother.
Absolute Satisfaction Guaranteed'
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Two-Bar Amethyst and Spray
BROOCH, 8s 6d.
With Bell and Chain, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CLOTH or HAT BRUSH, Pure Silver,
Long White Bristles, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, :ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gilt BEDROOM CLOCK,
Enamelled Dial, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
WEDDING RINGS: 9ct. Gold, 7s 6d, 10s;
15ct., 15s, 255; 18ct., 20s, 30s, 40s, 50s.
KEEPERS: 9ct. Gold, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d;
15ct., 17s 6d, 20s; 18ct., 22s 6d, 30s,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Pearl Set Bird and Spray
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open-Face Keyless
WATCHES, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255,
30s, £2. Nurse’s Special, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone Bar BROOCH,
Gold Mounted, 108 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Cherub Design HAIR BRUSH,
Extra Long Fine, White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-Plated 25s
Other Styles, 21s, 30s, 355, 40s, 455. ’
A. SAUNDERS. %
Set. Gold BRACELET, Pure Double Cut 1 iamond
Jid Two Rubies or Sapphires, £2
15ct. Gold, £4 10s.
Save by
Mail.
You can save
money by mail,
just as if you were
shopping in person.
Our
Illustrated Catalogue
brings our
immense stock right
to your door.
A Postcard will bring
you a copy.
All Goods sent
Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather PURSE, Pure Silver Mounts and
Lock, in Tan or Green, 8s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
Our
Catalogue
is a valuable guide
to shoppers, and is
to be had for
the asking.
It gives concise
descriptions and
range of prices of
nearly everything
sold by
this establishment.
Write to-day.
We post it Free
anywhere.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
PIN CHAIN
and
New Zealand
Greenstone
CHARM, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Ring, Opal,
Ruby or Sapphire,
17s 6d.
15ct. Gold Opal, 30s.
18et. Gold Opal, 40s.
msSm
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver or Silver-Gilt Amethyst
or Topaz BROoCH, 4s 6d.
/
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin TOBACCO POUCH,
Pure Silver Shield,
Best Rubber Lining, 4s 6d
Others, 4s, 5s 6d, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s.
LADIES!
/
POST
Sess^
FREE.
4cv
f LADY'S
SOLID
GOLD
WATCH,
\
£3.
sdf
LADY'S \
SOLID
GOLD
WATCH,
£3.
y
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting Key-
\less Watch, f-] late, patent adjusted balance,
jewelled, handsomely engraved. Guaran-
- teed for 15 years, and kept in repair
for 3 years Free. Price, £3;
others, £3 10s, £4, £5,
£6, £7 10s,
£l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
floral Spray BROOCH,
Fine, Pure White Pearls,
£3 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet
RING, 17s 6d, 20s.
Bloodstone, 22s 6d, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDEES.
FLOWER VASE,
Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Glass,
10s 6d Pair.
Others, 8s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING SET, on Black Base,
comprising Paper Clip, Shaving Brush.
Soap Dish, 255.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 14s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold RING,
Four Pure Diamonds
and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone HEART,
9ct. Gold Mounted, 10s 6d.
Others, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Lustre Pearl NECKLET, Filled Pcxrls,
Silk-Lined Case, and Oct. Gold Catch, 10s 6d
Large Size, with Knobs, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold RING,
Five Fine Opals,
£2 10s.
Extra Quality
Opals, £3.
Etoje;
«Willlll[llllllnn
smwim
Unix
A. SAUNDERS.
Three-Bottle Breakfast
CRUET,
Pure Silver-Plated, 15s 6d.
Others, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
"7s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel TOILET SET, comprising Mirror, Hair Brush,
and Cloth Brush, 27s 6d.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, 32s 6d, 355, 37s 6d, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS,
.UTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-Plated.
Handsomely Engraved, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 2s, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, ss, 6s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREA ) or CAKE SERVER, Pure Silver-Plated,
Mother of Pearl Handle, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
gsd
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Oak SALAD BOWL and SERVERS,
Pure Silver-Plated Mounts, SOs, 355.
Others, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird
CHARM, 6s 6d.
Large Size, 8s 6d.
15et. Gold, Pearl Set,
21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Leather WALLET,
fitted every convenience, 5s 6d.
Silver Lock, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
NICKEL
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Non-Magnetic, Strong, Reliable Knock-
about WATCHES. Our Unrivalled 20s.
Extra Quality Lever, 255.
Extra Jewelled, 30s.
Cheaper Lines, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
All Guaranteed.
SILVER,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Secret
Pearl Set
HEART, 20s.
16ct. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
? >ulton China Lining, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12: 6d
17s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE and POCKET-BOOK
COMBINATION,
Solid Leather, Silk Lining, 10s 6d.
With Silver Shield, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 3s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE STREET
Opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.


m
m
*3*
&
K
$?
*
o
Wlf
fa
■
rw
W.
l
THE CASE FOR. FREETRADE.
Mr. G. H. REID: “ BacK there! She doesn’t want any Protection. You musn’t interfere
with the animal’s natural food! ”


m
m
f
4
§
gen
-■V'H!
ml
*4'
fl
mm
fH*%jps
rm
u
w
s
fg
sdf
gsdf
gs
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE,
dfg
sd
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES.
(EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
UNDER THE TRADE MARK PB° T ECT | OH_ACTer | Bfi3j
0i
M
Refuse
Imitations
Wholesale:
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above .
OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England.
HARDY’S
gsd
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
New Zealand Loan Agency Co.
S 3T 33 HXT 3E3 Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS, k
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
ss-T^ C ° nSignn ? e T, t 8 ?! EE I PSKINS ’ HIDES . TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
promptly. 40 * * dlSP ° Sing to Very beSt Account Sales rendered
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application. K
THEY WILL BE WORN BY ALL
ON LAWN, HILL AND FLAT
AT FLEMINGTON.—
FANCY BROOCH, Ift/-
714
FLAT BELCHER, 18/-
917
5-LEAF SCARF PIN, 6 -
'SS
sod
HEART BROOCH, 14/-
600
DOUBLE CLUSTER
RING, 18/.
936
TIFFANY ENGAGEMENT
RING, 6/-
\\
7/
PANSY BROOCH, 12/-
' 504
ROUND BELCHER, 6/-
They will Absolutely
Defy Detection.
OCir Shops.
are daily thronged with customers who have
THOROUGHLY REALISED that our Diamonds
are THE FINEST IMITATIONS EXTANT.
OGr Workrooms
are working OVERTIME, duplicating all kinds of
valuable ornaments for our wealthy patrons, who
are not risking the loss of their genuine jewellery
either through carelessness or theft, AND NO
ONE WILL KNOW THE DIFFERENCE.
OGr Dianioods
have caused consternation amongst the ranks of
jewellers. They complain of business being quiet,
whilst WE ARE KEPT BUSY ALL THE
TIME, which means that our assertions made to
the public are absolutely true.
Take OGr Advice.
Leave backing horsed alone, and invest your money
in BARRTOS DIAMONDS instead. There is NO
UNCERTAINTY in our Stones; they contain all
the LUSTRE, FIRE, COLOR, FLASH, and
BEAUTY of the genuine Diamond, and, what
is more—
Their Brilliancy wifi Last for Ever.
OGr Stock
is replete with hundreds of exquisite designs in
Rings, Brooches, Pendants, Lockets, Bangles, Neck-
lets, Earrings, Pins and Studs, all perfectly
mounted in
HEAVY SOLID 15ct. GOLD SHELL
and warranted to last 20 Years .
TO OUR COUNTRY CLIENTS.
ALL ORDERS are executed the day they
are received. Should the goods not suit
you we will exchange them till they do, or
refund your money if they are not as
represented.
WE GUARANTEE each and every stone
to retain its brilliancy for ever, and will
forfeit £2OOO if it can be shown that we
ever refused to replace a stone that does
not give satisfaction.
Prices Range from
6s. to 18s.
dll
CLUSTER RING, 12/-
SOLITAIRE
SCARF PIN, 6/-
5-STONE PRINCESS
RING, 14/-
903
SOLITAIRK STUO,
BARRIOS OIHmOIIB CO.
100 KING STREET, SYDNEY
52 Swanston St., MELBOURNE
The Monkey’s objection to the Queens-
land Government including him under the general
term “ natives of Asia,” recalls to mind the famous
definition of a Chinaman with which Walter
James once delighted W. A. In 1894 he moved to
amend the Goldfields Act as follows :
No Chinese (in whieh term is included any person who
is apparently a native of any part of Asia, Africa, Japan,
or Java, or any one of the islands of the Indian or Pacific
Oceans, or of the Malayan Archipelago, or who is appar-
ently a child of any such person) shall hold any miner’s
richt.
lamf was in those days an enthusiastic young
man, with high ideals, and no paltry scruples
about ethnography.
“Melb.”: I have just seen a handsome
wooden shield, made out of the last native tree in
Melbourne city. This was the red gum which
stood on the Elizabeth-street front of St. Francis’s
Church. A much finer red gum stood on the
corner of Flinders and Swanston streets, where
the Cathedral is. A gouty antique hippopotamus
of a bent red gum is worshiDped by Anglican
identities, on the lawn of Bishopscourt. It goes
up a bit from the ground, then has a wonderfully
long horizontal stretch. Observe how the native
trees are beloved and cherished on Bendigo,
whereas Ballarat is all for the English greenery—
vide Sturt-street.


%
SO
4>
ea
£
..-I
S
1
S 3
P
4 0
0
%
:
sif
HH';l
I
1
m
m
m
*
rm
m
N
?K»
*as
HM
fl
-
fi£4
rv,■:->•
Irf?
N?
5/
4
*
/ft
5A55
.%
/
i»<ft
' ! i‘&i'*- - f**
a
was
ht
cCS
%
C?
y
□
o
c?
D>
(J>


*O5
£50,000 SAVED!
...ACTION o. AIR...
PERFORMANCE v. PROMISES
On October 4th, 1905, a deputation of local manufacturers of
harvesters waited upon the Minister of Customs, and intimated that
if a prohibitive tariff were declared upon harvesters they would
reduce the prices then ruling by £5 the first year, and another £5
the second year. They were, however, so far as can be learned from
press reports, suspiciously silent about what the third, fourth, and
subsequent years were to bring forth re harvester prices, and those
who follow that good old rule—“judge the future by the past ”
will mistrust that should the manufacturers succeed in their designs
to prohibit harvester importations, they will find some way to get
back the £5 and £lO cut promised for a limited time only. It is
well known that they, like all other sellers have in the past, always
got ALL THEY COULD, hence these indefinite promises look
strangely like “ HOT AIR.”
On October 7th, the harvester buyers of Australia got ACTION,
—they got performance instead of promises—they got something
substantial NOW instead of vague illusory promises to be realised
on in the dim future; for on that date we made an open
quotation on our harvesters as follows:
£7O cash at starting.
£73 March Ist, 1906.
£77 half March Ist, 1906 and half March Ist, 1907.
£BO quarter cash and quarter each March Ist, 1906, 1907, 1908.
£B5 third each March Ist. 1906, 1907, 1908.
This is a cut of £l2 10 0 per harvester, averaging cash and
terms prices together. There will be about 4,000 harvesters sold
in Australia this season, and hence our action obviously saves the
farmers approximately £50,000.
We shall settle with the hundreds of purchasers whose orders
we now hold at the reduced prices quoted above, believing that
those who entrusted us with early orders should be loyally protected,
although we must lose thousands of pounds in so doing.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
AGENTS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA——^
Don’t wait till Xmas
to present yourself or friend with a
“SWAN”
Fountain Pen.
A boon to the Business Man,
the Cleric, Lawyer, Doctor,
Student, Litterateur,
or Artist.
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Launceston and
Christchurch
&
Lasts
for Year®.
“SWAN” PENS are fully guaranteed.
Sold by all Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Catalogue post free
Mabie, Todd & Bard,
93, Cheapside, London, E.C.
f
V
RADIES !
ATTENTION
——iawMnwjfinup
A PERFECT COMPLEXION BEAUTiFIER AF
REMOVER OF “WRINKLES.
The Only ELECTRIC MASSAGE ROLLER( patented by Dr. John Wilson Gibbks)
with the World-Famous EPIDERMIA CREAM, The Wonderful Skin
Demulcent, applied in conjunction to specially facilitate the Massage.
All ladies who have given this a trial are delighted with the result. Rollers supplied
at— -Silver, 15/6 ; Gold, 18/6 ; Epidermia Cream at 2/fi— posted free to all States. Apnl.v
only at THE AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY Ltd., 177 LIVERPOOL ST.,
SYDNEY. SMB?— Beware ok All Imitations and Fraudulent Roll rs.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. 1d
Post Free.
“CLOTN€S
... OF ...
QUALITY”
#
From the designing of the pattern
To the adjusting of a button,
London Tailoring is the product
Of system intelligently applied
By Tailors who have developed
A Talent for the Fashioning
Of Distinctive and Individual
Garments for Men.
A THOUSAND PATTERNS.
Selection with simple Measure-
ment Forms Posted FREE.
g
LONDON TAILORING DEPOT,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
ONLY ADDRESS IN STATES.
MELBOURNE
TO YOU FREE! A Solid Silver Watch.
/
N-
TO introduce our Catalogue into as many homes as
possible, we have decided to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons of either sex who send in the
correct solution of the following puzzle :
OXR WXXCXXS AXE TXE BXXT.
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the watch. We make this condition because
we want our Catalogue to g'et into the hands of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toys, but Solid
Silver, and Fully Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
ARTHUR PRYME & CO.
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
A.F. PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ma i
GANZ
Turbine Pumps
for mines, water-supply-
works, etc., to suit all
kinds of requirements,
are supplied and erected
by the
Austral Otis
Engineering Co-
Cr. Hanna & Kavanagh Strec s, South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 331.
fgh
•nne^BßMtß
Fop Infant Feeding
it is Perfect.
"UNSWEETENED
It does not
thicken. It
is absolutely pure. It is Sterilized.
As Supplied to H.B.M.
& Army.__
sdf
FOSSELL & CO.. LTD.,
London, England.
fir 1/7 *• " ' juonaon, j&ngianct. -jffW ' * 'H7
Sole Agents tor New South Wales BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd.
CREAM, IN TUBES,
Soap and
Powder.
I 4* I 4* I 4*
I 4 s i 4* ' 4*
V
Sold by all Chemists & Storekeepers.
THE FINEST
SKIN PREPARATIONS
IN THE WORLD.
SOLE
AGENTS
LOHMAIUN & GO a y Mefbourne & Sydney.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £1.3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &e., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & 00.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
-Til 15—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offioes • - 105 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Rohehts, C. .VI.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 95.461 assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COL.I.INS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.I. A., General Manager.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,226 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specialty protected. .
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. Y. RALSTON.
The Bank of Qortk Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. ( 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) j £370,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Gollins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUN IT (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £17,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.f.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Go.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & 00., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, J). Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
Sl ‘Farlank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 181 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
scparate’y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
tST BEWARE OF IMITATIONS, “a®
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
gsd
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘ PfISVSPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
Sold'
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 i 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle- 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
DRUNKENNESS CURED.—Write to me and I will
forward my free book showing how drunkenness can be
cured secretly or otherwise at home, at small cost.
Permanent cure guaranteed. New, scientific ; a revela-
tion in treatment. ERASMUS CAMPBELL, Melbourne
Chambers, 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
snipping.
3NT. 13. L.
(NORD-D1; UTSCH ER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA~and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 25th NOVEMBER.
*PRINZ SIGISMUJD, 3300 tons.. 23rd DECEMBER.
*WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 20th JANUARY.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. Fof further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
ril Try it:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
QepilEarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
TksXttuK.
CRAIG & AITKEIM, N.S. W. Barber’s Suppl)
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LfN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
g
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, TO SAIL ON
4th NOVEMBER,
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC,
and MEDIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £1414 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
QCE A.KTXC S.S. Co. A-. and. A. LIU E,
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SONOMA. 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., ilanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
ISLAND
CRUISES
sdf
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INT REST.
EASY TERMS. y
WE
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about Ten Shillings a Day—that is less than vour hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
BURNS, PHILP & GO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
$
<s>
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
HXT.S.'W.
(|]ont de pete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLSREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Oueensland
J LI MIT HI).
Capital Paid-up ~ .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .., 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvestqd in Government Stock) 65,000 0 0
£698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, Creorge Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount, of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital _ .. £3,000,000
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
Nov. 27, Dec. 25, Jan. 22.
Absolutely
the
Most
Interesting
Route
to
America
and
Europe.
far WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
■
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUMC. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin
and card tricks), The Surprise Packet, or Nerve
Strengthener (a good joke), the Wizard Fish
(gives the definition of your character—very
superior for parlor, entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of- 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
• J 710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard !
GEO. H. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. ME'TCALFE, Assistant Manager.
™ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Vlotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
POET PIRIE
And GULF POETS,
ESPEEANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Marloo, November 3.
Landing Passengers in
Time for Cup Carnival.
S.S. Allinga, November 10.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, >
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Innamincka, Nov, 4.
S.S. Marloo, November 11.
nest and Cheapest Itoute to (lold fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst 1 ort of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
C- S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PASSENGERS booked to Bombav, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £76,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
. “E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Commercial Hanking Company
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,085,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,085,000 0 0
DIRECTORS;
>
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F, T. Humpherv, 11.L.C.
Auditors :
A. H. K. Maxwell, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNFY,
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager arid Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; VV. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: IS Bircliin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ;
Hon. II S. Lit tleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Netr South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ~ .. ... . . 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund 1,400,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total ... ... .. 5,400,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C., President
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The-Ron. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie. lisa.
The Hon. Ciias. K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine RisVs
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.


«GRAND PRIX ” PARIS 1900.
The Highest Possible Award.
JOSEPH GILLOITS
PENS.
Highest Quality, and Having Greatest
Durability, are therefore
CHEAPEST.
HEALTH not MONEY
V
I /
\ .
1
‘TT;
s
&
Gif
JC
lliSfiSw
WiflinfilniiilfliHiuiuiiiil
iiiinimwpffiiflniiiiiiHi/iin
Q O DJDi^^OF
vH
SOME QUESTIONS ASKED .—For the benefit of some patients who
keep asking- questions, there is no Cutting or Blood Poisoning ; absolutely no
pain.
The operation for Stricture or Varicocele never injures their power ; that
power is improved, wasting of parts stopped, blood circulated through healthy
channels, no confinement in house or bed, and patients can return home, even
if distant one thousand miles, on the following day.
We treat thousands of cases annually. We understand such cases better
than those who treat only a few hundred. Practice makes perfect in the
treatment of disease. Do not despair. Order your treatment at once ; let us
add your name to our long list of cures.
is the greatest blessing - What does a man gain if he
wins a MELBOURNE CUP SWEEP, and is not healthy or
curable of a disease . (t A man who is truly healthy is
rich beyond all dreams of riches, "ingersoll.
Thus wrote America’s great prose poet, the man whose beautiful writings and exquisite similes
are quoted as household words throughout the American and English worlds of literature. Ingersoll
is a man who will never truly die, for in the spirit of his writings he is ever present in the world of
men.
The philosophy of the above quoted lines appeals to all. Ingersoll only voiced a common fact
in superior sentences. Every man knows the value of health, even the truly healthy man. The
trouble is he does not truly appreciate it. True appreciation of health is only given by the man who
does not possess it, who is sickly and envious of his healthy companions, and whose life threatens to
end early.
It is this man who appreciates health, and when told he is incurable would give all he
possesses to be cured.
What a tragedy is life to the man who is told by his Specialist that no cure exists on earth for
him, and, like a man doomed to death, he must surely die ! And perhaps, by Early Indiscretions,
Disobedience of Nature’s Laws, Neglect, Privation, Exposure, Delay in seeking Skilled Medical Aid
before it was too late, he has aided the generation and progress of a deadly disease within his
system, and has unknowingly written and signed his own death warrant.
* * * # * * sfc # * *
There are many classes of Medical Men. Some are devoted to the treatment of one class of disease, some to the
other. There are doctors for the eyes, ears, brain, nose, throat, and other important organs of the body. Some are eminent
pathologists, others are exceptionally fine surgeons. Others, again, make a complete study of Diseases of Genito-TJrinary
sections of the Male, and treat this class of disease in preference to any other. To this class belong these Expert Specialists
of the Medical Staff of
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical Institute
who are known far and wide by reason of their great skill, their wonderful cures, their reliability in operation, their honesty
in practice, and, above all, their secrecy in treatment. They may be consulted Free, personally or by letter. Four
Legally Qualified Men are associated with the Medical Staff of the Institutes, Sydney and Melbourne.
We will be pleased to give all particulars and ADVICE FREE to bona fide sufferers concerning
our new and special treatment, which has been so successful in curing THOUSANDS OF YOUNG,
MIDDLE-AGED, and OLD MEN from Chronic Nervousness, Blood and Skin Diseases, Loss of
Low Spirits, Loss of Vigor, Muscular Weaknesses, Mental and Bodily Prostration, Affections of
Kidneys and Bladder, Rupture, Piles, Varicocele, Prostatic Affections, Insomnia, and other complaints.
Men whose eyes are dulled, whose brains are muddled and weary, whose nervous energy is
exhausted from dissipation, overwork, or disobedience to Nature’s laws, who have lost the sprightly
enjoyment of life, who have sleepless nights, dull, gloomy, despondent days, who have lost
courage, ambition, and the grit which is so evident in perfect manhood ; men who have BLOOD
and SKIN TROUBLES, and other complaints. If you have failed to derive any benefit from other
treatments, and have wasted both time and money, we offer you a COMPLETE and PERMANENT
CURE, which will NOT COST YOU A PENNY for CORRECT DIAGNOSIS. If you suffer do not put this
aside and say I will see to it later on, but at once take advantage of our system of Home Treat-
ment, and, if possible, have a personal interview. Our Consulting Rooms are open. MONDAY,
TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, and SATURDAY, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., and 7to 9 p.m. ;
SUNDAY, by special appointment only.
If you are living too far away to visit, write at once, in strict confidence, giving full particulars of your trouble, and
you will receive a plain and distinct statement of what we can do for you.
We never supply our Remedies for Cases we cannot Cure. We have made so thorough and complete a study of
Diseases and Troubles of Men that failure is almost impossible. We do not claim to perform miracles, but what we do
claim is that our Remedies Cure the Most Obstinate Cases when all other means fail.
The Strictest Confidence may be Relied upon.
We have References from every district in the Colonies.
Almost every post brings us fresh evidence of our success; but, remember, under no circumstance do we make use
of letters unless we have distinct permission to do so.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney (OPP. HYDE PARK),
Howard Freeman, Director and Principal of the Institutes. AND AT MELBOURNE.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., Physician-in-Chief.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Speeialiste in Diseases of Women and Children.
CORRESPONDENCE. —AII letters addressed to the Physician-in-Chief,
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., are supervised by
him personally, and a glance at the Medical Practitioners’ Lists for New South
Wales and Victoria will show that he is registered in those States, also in
Queensland, South Australia, England, and America. The Doctor has gra-
duated from the most scientific Medical centres in the United Kingdom.
As stated in our advts., he is a Man’s Doctor, having made a
special study in those diseases of the Sex to which Men are liable. He does
not profess to treat all diseases, but he cures all he treats.
A valuable Medical work which the Doctor has supervised is “Clinical
Experiences,” a book of over 600 pages, with thirty-one chapters on General
Diseases, and numerous Medical illustrations, and this will be posted Free to
any address in the Commonwealth upon application. He tells you how we
have cured thousands of Weak men in Australia during the past twenty-five
years. It is commended by hundreds of Australian newspapers, and Costs
You Nothing but the trouble of writing. Send for it to-day.
The Illustrated. Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.’ 5
The British Medical Journal
says:~“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own. 5 '
%
FOOI
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and tho AGED.
BENGEK’3 FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE.
Benger’s Fo?d has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
M. Ular’s recently-published “ Russia
From Within” shows that during the war
Russia’s old nobility kept up the reputation of old
nobility in general. Asked where were the boots
of his barefooted troops, a general replied, “In
the pocket of the Grand Duke Vladimir.” Into
the.same pocket went immense sums which should
have been expended on a factory for the supply
of drugs to the army. Trains despatched by
Vladimir, supposed to contain ammunition and
clothing, were found to be laden with stones and
straw. The same benevolent person assassinated
a station-master who shunted his train to allow
urgently-needed war supplies to proceed. His
son Boris arrived in Manchuria with eight lady
friends recruited from different countries. He
gambled, caroused* lost enormous sums of money,
and refused to go to the front when ordered
by his superior officer. When remonstrated
with by Kuropatkin he attempted to assas-
sinate him. Boris’s brother Cyril was the
direct cause of more than 60 men from the Petro-
pavlovsk losing their lives. A first-rate swimmer,
and quite uninjured, Cyril was making his way,
after the blowing-up of the ironclad, to the shore,
which he could have reached in another five
minutes. Round him were hundreds of injured
sailors drowning. The rescue boats dashed for-
ward. Cyril bellowed without intermission, “It
is I, the Grand Duke ! ” Numbers of disabled
men were clinging to the boat. “ Knock them on
the head ! I am the Grand Duke ! Beat them
off !” he shouted. Yet in the face of such dis-
graceful proceedings the poorly-clothed, halt-
starved troops, with hardly any provision for the
wounded, put up a good fight, and gave indications
of wonderful capabilities if not hampered by the
interference of a rotten nobility.
London Speaker of Sept. 9 pays a big
compliment to an Australian writer :
We turn to Maxim Gorky, as we turn to the sketches
of life by the Australian Henry Lawson, to escape from
the middle-class atmosphere of compromise and make-
believe which prevails now in English fiction.


DUNKLINC’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph .
f
melbdubhe
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
10s.
Warranted equal to any £lO
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
f 7 f)
r V5',iT T hr/! f
sft
&
“COMCONBOyS
TITS
gsd
fgsd
i
AGENTS:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
J. Connell & Co.,
V Sydney.
D. Cohen £ Co.,
V;
.Newcastle.
This
Trade
Mark
VERTEX
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX OELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/8.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Solk Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO -
-75 King Street, Sydney.
fg
Hotelkeepers, Fruiterers & Caterers
CAN PRODUCE
100 doz. AERATED WATERB for 30/■
WITH AN
AUSTBAL AEBATED
WATEB MACHINE
AND VERY LITTLE LABOR.
The only machine used by the Officers’ Ward Room of the Australian Squadron and Viotorian
Railway Refreshment Rooms.
NO STEAM POWER required to work it. Easily erected, and occupies very little space.
The “ GLACIER SODA FOUNTAIN."
A Beautiful Marble Fountain for Chemists and Fruiterers. The most
economical fountain ever manufactured, outrivailing all American productions.
For further particulars write for our Illustrated Catalogues.
ECKERSLEY & SONS , So/e Manufacturers,
W.A. Agents:
E. H. Fothergill & Co., Fremantle.
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
THE
‘PLUM’
sd
THE
‘PLUM’
/"I ENTLEMEN,- This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LICHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, ,10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
SOLE AGENTS :
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part of the World.
RCPlease add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY
Beautiful Home Decorations
gs
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities,
‘ OCR FAVORITE” ROM) EH'AMKL (Washable) -Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOJLIA BUTFor decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
;«SAPOEVi¥” BATH TUB ENAMEL. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers . Avoid imitations•
Successfully used in tliis climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “ SAPOLIN ’’ FLOOR
STAINS, “SAPOLIN” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
IF YOU SUFFER from RUPTURE!
DR. J. A. SHERMAN
RUPTURE CURE
is as different from all other treat-
ments as light is from darkness.
These Two Free Books tell all about it:
“Indisputable Testimony.”
“ A Warning and Guide to the Ruptured.”
WRITE FOR THEM TO-DAY !
If you suffer from Rupture,
and have found all other treat-
ments a failure, this ought to
be good news for you.
The Sherman Method will
cure you because nature is
assisted —not outraged.
No matter how long you
have been ruptured, no matter
how young or how old you are,
the Sherman Method of treat-
ment will cure yon —cure you
absolutely and without the
knife and detention from busi-
ness.
CONSUL TA TIONS FREE.
HOTJRS—DaiIy (Sundays excepted) from 10 a.m. to 12.30, 2.30 p.m. to 5.30
EXTRA HOURS—Tuesday and Friday Evenings, from 7.30 to 9. Saturdays, 10 a.
12.30 noon.
p.m.
m. to
A. W. MARTIN,
Sole Controller for Australasia,
St. Aubyns, 82 tiunter-st., Sydney.
IMPORTANT NOTICE. —As I intend to visit the Main Centres
of New South Wales after New Year, early application is necessary.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
nf
&
\*
v*
0
fitS
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
merits—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
dfg
Medicated
TABLETS.
THE GREAT NEW ZEALAND CURE
For Coughs, Colds, Catarrh, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption.
Recommended by the N.Z. Health Department, and
acknowledged by Specialists to be the Greatest Lung
Food of the day. Sold by Cthemists at 1/6 and 2/6 tin
If not obtainable, write, end stamps, to BJORNSTA9 & STAGEY, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
&
&
$
r<s>
9?
o <<
&
SCO'
*<*
&
&
'<?
<? V
«y
WHAT IS CATARRH?
sd
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
A w*
%
«r
Or
° r A
%
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
V s *
DRUNKENNESS
CURED
£UCRASY
may be given in Tea, Coffee or Food,
thus secretly curing the Patient
WITHOUT HIS KNOWLEDGE OR CONSENT.
Mrs. J. HATTON cured her husband with Eucrasy ;
Miss R. E. WILLIAMS cured her father ; Mrs. K. LYNCH
rescued her husband; and Mr. W. F. STANTON, J.P.,
S. of T., and 1.0.0. T., heartily recommends it. If in
doubt call on us, and read hundreds of testimonial letters,
or interview cured patients. Book of References FREE.
Address or call on
THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter Street, Sydney.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
fgs
dfg
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and atiectiou, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Wiite to-day. Address—
sd
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, a 9 Pitt St., Sydney-
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
gout *
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
El lEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
» POLICY FOit the COMMONWEALTH,
.xjL Price, Ud.; Posted, Sd


C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed,
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
fgs
Works s
Birmingnam, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt, i hey glide
over the roughest
| paper with the ease
of a soft lead pen.il.
Attention s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-t>.o;ting Ser.es.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
I
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning- mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engraving's, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is, Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, ls6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ohiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is, . Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadder’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s Gd. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IDS? - Established 20 ) 'ears.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2f.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ohevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore's Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate In composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., LONDON, and 7, Soring St., SYDNEY.
QLLOWAY
dg
re
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy tor Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” cr “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills, It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumoago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway's Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
V
o<? <&> ,<->
# v # *
&
r
dfgd
fd
ni
Islal
'■'ufFerers from Deafness or Het_ Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to 'I he L. It. VERNON (.O.
» 0 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
Is non-heating. One cup contains
more nourishment than 10 cups oi
any ordinary cocoa.
Himself Cured.
TAEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and
17 Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
rppc
■ HbL K3B
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CUREby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showina-sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh BL,
STTDIIS'IEir-
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address; A,MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREE TRIA ! !
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your nam ■
and we wilt arrange to forward one of cur
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure al l cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and al! Weakness of Men and Women.
ttle loill aloe Free
to each per
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men ~nd women. If you are weak in any way
de'ay no longer, but write to-day for our
Splendid Book a;.d Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin C© %
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. V!C.
Plea-e mention this pa >er.
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Cor pore
Sano.” Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN. The following- subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varicccele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for sufftreis to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you want to
and what you ought to know. Neurasthenia"
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation
WRITE TO-DAY.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S.
Eng'.
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
FRANZ
Superior
to
All Others .
. “A-D.8.” witnesses a piratical proceed-
ing- in Sydney :
She was a little Briton, she was, and had the arts of a
Circe. The way she piloted him from a busy thorough-
’T,!’«tarne be^ h aQ he T re a co . nse l " t . in £ was admirable.
T’s true be was only a sandy-han-ed, pigeon-chested slip
of a galoot, whose legs wouldn’t be over envied as loco-
jnotn e members even when their owner was sober—but he
had his humors. She had manoeuvred him into a side
street ere his beery brain struggled into a sickly half-con-
sciousness of his captor s design, and then her engineer-
ing genius arose to its zenith. Twice he let out with his
fist, ana pitched forward on her ample bosom, and was
snatched up and carried with legs kicking. She would
skirmish ahead at street corners for “ D’s.”, and return
mg with jubilant haste, buckle on to him a-min
staggering about on door-steps, coaxing with a leer’
scolding- him like a naughty brat, her arms and
legs baulking his threatening collapses and foggy
outlets of escape. Holding feebly aloft a broken
cigarette in one hand, he thrashed helplessly at
the air with the other whilst he was being
pushed, tug-ged, and hypnotised along by a slatternly
whirlwind of draggled voluptuousness. The alley- corner
had just been reached and the goal was in sight when a
’tec. loomed in the distance. The loon’s legs and arms
were now whipping like tentacles and his foxy face was
wild with perplexity. She took it all in at a glance.
Ducking her head she rammed it into his back and sling-
ing her arms about his waist rushed up the alley and shot
him into a kennel and the door slammed behind them.
Right under the eye of the enemy the prize had been
carried off. A score of faces popped into sight from as
many cribs and instantly disappeared as a weasel-eyed
’tec. stalked gloomily through the deserted lane.


m
Rothwelßs Lji
Only Address,
Edward St*, Brisbane.
Manufacturers of Masonic
Re~a’la. Dost Quality Blue
Apron and Case, £lls. (8.
r IN HOT CLIMATES ]
| where a good antiseptic soap is ofteiir
more a necessity than a luxury,
CALVERT’S
20 par cent
Carbolic Soap
has a ready sale, on account of its
refreshing qualities, and the protec-
tion its use gives against mosquito
bites. It contains 20% Crystal Car-
bolic, and is useful for insect bites
or stings, ringworm, itch, &c.
Calvert’s Disinfecting Powder
is guaranteed to contain 15% Carbolic and
so is cheap to use as it need only be lightly
sprinkled to destroy noxious and unpleas-
ant odours and prevent the approach of
infection. J lb., 1 lb. and 2 lb. tins.
F. C. CALYEET & Co., Manchester,
England.
WILL ANDRADE BOOKS
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is : post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse an® Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
(id. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and ail Zola’s, Is (id each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels. 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. llovv
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d,
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish,
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; . post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d doxen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CAROS, LOVE, BUSIr
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with ful directions, Is; posted 1/3.
A
'A
Y'jf,
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, eto.
No. 2—Conjuring: Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Bocks for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Flashlights on Japan, by Dr. Maloney, 6d, post 8d
God and My Neighbor, 9d, post Is. Tom Mann on
Socialism, 3d, post 4d. Shanty Entertainment, Is.
Botiiner’s Scientific Wrestling, 66fu11-pagephotos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwivks’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog DanCing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, ls. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, ls6d. Stolen Sweets, ls6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover's Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Age of Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is.
2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor, Is.
AND ANY BOOR YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any Stale will do.
MANNING’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
The most complete work ever published. 1905 Edition. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding-, breaking
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases—their causes, how to know them and
how to cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 10/6.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST
MELBOURHE.
Here’s Health 1
/
1
What Scientific Men Say
Dr. riunroe, M.S.E.E., Author of “Electricity and
its Uses,” says:
“As a Curative Agent, Electricity is becoming more and more useful
and established on a sound scientific basis. Its possibilities in this
direction are infinite, not only in the cure of Nervous Disorders, but in
the reduction of tumors, the dissipation of pain, the enticement of sleep,
the destruction of bacteria, etc. None can tell what further service the
Electric Current will render the arts of medicine and surgery. The
SEARCHING quality of its power is greatly in its favor. At present,
the cure of physical disease is the noblest of all the manifold uses of
Electricity.”
Drs. Beard and Rockwell say:
“ The effects of Medical Electricity may develop slowly, but slowness
of development marks a radical distinction between TONICS and STIM-
ULANTS. The agreeable stimulating effects which immediately follow
an application of general Electrisation, just as they follow the use of
gymnastics, walking, active games, etc., soon pass off, or merge into
the permanent or tonic effects that come more less slowly and after con-
tinuous treatment. The effects of Medical Electricity often continue to
develop long after the treatment has ceased. Weeks and months after a
patient has taken a course of Medical Electricity he will continue to
improve in his general condition, even though very little progress may
have been made while the applications were being received.”
ELECTRICITY EFFECTS CURES THAT READ LIKE
W MIRACLES!
MEN ! You are suffering from Lack of Nerve Force, the Vitality in your System is nearly a thing of the past.
You have lived in too big a hurry ; you have wasted your Nerve Force in many ways; you know how, and
so do we. You want it back, and we can give it to you. Every man who suffers from Nervousness, Weakness,
Weak Back and Kidneys, Indigestion, Constipation, Insomnia, Dyspepsia, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Lumbago, or
Sciatica, needs our assistance, and until he gets it he never gets well. We are the only Specialists in these com-
plaints who treat them in a commonsense manner. We simply restore to the body Nature’s Vital Element. We
give you a steady current of New Nerve Life, flowing for hours a day into your jaded and run-down system. We
cure because our treatment is honest, because we know that there is only one way of restoring life to your
Weakened and Enfeebled Organs. Electricity is a Natural Cure, and it cures while you sleep. It is the founda-
tion of your very existence, and if you desire to get your health back you must use it; you need nothing else.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
WORN WHILE YOU SLEEP, pumps a Constant, Soothing Current of Electricity into your body for hours at a
time. No burning or blistering of the skin, because the metal discs are covered with the proper electrodes, and the
current is perfectly under control by means of the Regulator Attachment, which permits any desired strength of
current being used. It has cured thousands, and will cure you of Lame Back, Rheumatism, Dyspepsia ,
Constipation, Nervousness, Sciatica, Anosmia, and Lassitude, and will absolutely dispel That Tired heeling
you have when you get up in the morning Electricity alone is the proper remedy for these and all other
Organic or Functional Weaknesses arising from improper circulation and unnecessary waste of energy.
It absolutely restores your Liver, Kidneys, and Stomach to a Sound, Working Condition.
Thousands Testify to the Benefits Received.
Mr. C. H. SNELL, of NAROOMA, N.S. W., writes
Gentlemen, —It gives me great pleasure to testify to the benefits received from your treatment. It is now
fifteen months since I first experimented and borrowed an Electric Belt for Bronchial Asthma. I wore it for
about eight weeks, and was so well satisfied with the result that I purchased niy appliance, which has given
every satisfaction, and for five months I have not had a return of my complaint. I believe that to those who
have never used your Belt its curative powers are beyond perception. I could write a lot about my condition,
as I have been very observant, but I will let these few lines suffice for the p e ent.
OUR SPECIAL DIAGNOSIS SYSTEM enables us to treat you
in your own home the same as if you visited our Specialist.
We have cured thousands in this way without ever
seeing- them. WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
Mr. P. CROSSMAN, of BELMONT, VIC., writes:—
Dear Sirs,—-It is with pleasure I write to let you know that I have been cured of Asthma through the
instrumentality of your Belt. I have suffered from this complaint for the past five or six years, and have used
bottle after bottle of medicine without the slightest effect, and I had almost given up hope of ever being cured ;
but when I heard of the wonderful cures your Belt had effected, I made up my mind to try one, and am glad to
say that I am now in the enioyment of perfect health.
FREE BOOK!
IF you cannot call we want you to write for our
Free Book, containing 50 Illustrations, and much
Valuable Advice and Information regarding this
Wonderful Treatment. It names many of the
Ailments that are being cured daily by the use
of our Belt and Attachments. Should you be suffering in any way, it will certainly benefit
you to read this work. In addilion, we will send you a Book containing the names and
photos of many cured people. On application, we will forward you these Books FREE
POSTAGE PAID, and CLOSELY SEALED to any address. WRITE TO-DAY.
CALL and have a FREE TEST given you. We
want to show you how we cure, and explain just how we do it.
Advice and Consultation cost you nothing. We give you the
benefit of years of study and practical experience FREE! Our Specialist is in attendance
daily (Sundays excepted) from 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. CARE OR WRITE AT ONCE!
ADVICE FREE!
the McLaughlin go.
10OW, MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
And XT 167 E. SWAfTSTO ! STREET, MELBOURNE.
90 WILLIAM SIR-ET, PERTH, W.A.
54 yiMLLIS STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
William Charles Crawford
Harry Joseph Crawford
THE BULLETIN XnjaS No., 1905.
FuTslislied. December l-itb...
AGENTS' ORDERS are now being booked, and should
reach us not later than 20th NOVEMBER,


“Squidge”: Walked into a tobacconist’s shop
in Melbourne one afternoon, and was kept waiting- 20
minutes while a man from the country bought a pipe.
Now I know why pipes are blamed for cancer and other
diseases. The hayseed examined about four dozen pipes.
His method was to put the stem in his mouth and blow
down it. The shopman told me everybody tried pipes
that way, and many of them only stopped blowing when
their wind gave out, or when they had blown through
all the stock.
HAVE YGU A
BAD LEG ?
With Wounds that discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen, tnat when you
press your linger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints b ing
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease,
if alio wed to continue, will deprive you of the power to walk.
You may have attended various hospitals and had medical
advice and been told your case is hopeless, or advised to
subnt tto amputation; but do not, for I can cure you. I
don't say perhaps, but I will. Because others have failed
it is no reason I should. Send at once for a Box of Albert s
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills, which is a cei tain cure of
Bad l.egs, Housemaid’s Knee, Ulceratedjoints, Carbuncles,
Bunions, Ringworm, Poisoned Hands, and Insect Bites.
Of all Chemists, Stores, &c. Prepared by ALBERT, 73,
F miingdon Street. London, England. Purchasers should
look fee the Registered Trade Mark of the Grasshopper
on a green label on each box. (Registered Copyright).
m.
LiU-
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
jp-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones. f
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence. , *.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
r Of course .you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
TOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
Happy Times!
=i
1 1 life seems
when the chil-
dren are hearty
and strong and
bursting with
spirits! Yet
there are other
times (and these
are not happy)
when the little •
ones are pros-
trate with pain;
or they are so
languid that all
the good moth-
er’s efforts to rouse
them are vain. Moth-
ers, there is one thing
that never fails to
bring back health, and
the happiness which
conies with health, and
this is
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
of cod liver oil with
glycerine and the hy-
pophosphites of lime
and soda. For rickets,
wasting, colds and
coughs, bronchitis,
skin or blood troubles,
refusal to take food, teething trou-
bles and all children’s ailments,
Scott’s Emulsion is a perfect rem-
edy. Mrs. R. Carr, of Chinaman’s
Flat.Wallsend, N:S.W., wrote us on
Sept. 15th, 1904, this happy letter :
“ My little bov Jack, aged 18 months,
was a very delicate child and suffered
severely from weak lungs and colds.
I tried various preparations, but he
grew worse. Then the Doctor advised
me to give Scott's Emulsion, which
agreed so well with him and made
him so strong that in a little while he
washable to run about again. Scott’s
Emulsion saved his life.”
Common cod liver oil will not
do for your sufferer what Scott’s
Emulsion will do ; that is, cure
quicKly. Doctors say that Scott’s
Emulsion cures three times fas-
ter than common cod liver oil.
This is because it is perfectly di-
gestible and perfectly nice, which
common oil and com-
mon preparations are
not.
Write to-dav for a free sam-
ple bottle (enclosing 4d. for
postage and mentioning
this paper) to SCOTT &
BOWNE, Ltd., 483, Kent
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
fdfd
Trade mark
Over Two Years of Awful Suffering-
Eyes Stuck Together and Would
Bleed When Washed Open in the
Morning—Every Lash Fell Out.
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
CURE BY CUTICURA
** I feel it my duty to tell of two most
wonderful cures of sore eyes by,Cuticura
Ointment. My little son had an attack
of measles which left the eyes in a shock-
ingly bad state. The lids became inflamed
and sore and every lash fell out. For two
years and ten months I tried many eye
ointments and lotions, besides following
every advice given me, but nothing
seemed to do them ans* good. They would
be stuck in the morning, and I had to bathe
them in warm milk and water, which was
a very trying duty, as the eyelids would
always bleed, causing the child untold
suffering.
“I had heard a lot about Cuticura Oint-
ment, so I thought I would try it, and
from % the first application I have had
cause to be thankful. Before I had used
one box of Ointment the lashes showed
signs of growing, and at the end of a few
months he had a crop of lashes of which
any person might be proud.
“I recommended Cuticura to a Mrs.
Phillips for her child, who also had sore
eyes, and her little one was cured with
less than one box. I have advised dozens
of people to use Cuticura Ointrhent, often
stopping them in the street, as I did Mrs.
Phillips, who was a total stranger to me.
I have such implicit faith in it that I have
written to relatives in England and Ire-
land telling thein of its wonderful virtues,
and asking them to recommend it to any
sufferers they might know.
“I am sending you this testimonial of
my own free will, in the hope that others
may be benefited as we have been,
(signed) Mrs. C. Todd, Old South Head
Road, Waverly, Sydney, N.S. W.” Ref-
erence, Messrs. R. Towns & Go., Sydney.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout the
world. Depots : London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5 Rue de
laPaix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney. Potter Drug &
Chem. Corp., Boston, TJ. S. A., Sole Props.
tS3f~ Mailed Free, “ How to Care for Baby’s Skin and Scalp.**
Make Money Easily.
THIS MACHINE MADE $12.65 IN ONE DAY.
Small Investment. Quick Profit.
ďf
WE PROVE IT.
This is the MILLS BAG
PUNCHING MACHINE,
one of our 200 varieties of
coin-operated, money-mak-
ing', amusement machines,
earning- daily large incomes
for their owners.
It does not matter whether
you live in a small town or a
big city, a small investment
will earn you a large, honest
ncome without much work
or worry. You only count
the profits. Perfectly legiti-
mate in any part of the world.
Others Make Money Fast.
An American customer in
a small town received our
Bag' Puncher at 4 o’clock one
afternoon, and collected
$12.65 the next morning.
Another collected 39,000
pennies in 13 months. That
means he doubled his money
every 60 days. Just think
whatseveral machines would
do for you.
Why Net You ?
Mills machines often pay
for themselves in ten days—
after that it is all profit.
Nearly everybody patronises
our amusement machines —men, women and children.
Nearly all our coin-operatedma chines can be made
to fit the coin of any country. If you have any sum
of money—62/6 or more—to invest in a sure money-
maker, don’t fail to write to-day for our Booklet
No. 66, “ How to Make Money Fast.” It’s Free:
MILLS NOVELTY CO., 11 to 23 S. Jefferson St.,
Chicago, U.S.fl.
Peter’s
Original
fllilk
Ghoeolate
“Oh! So good for
Little Mary.”
I
SHAVING
SOAPS
. tv-a
■n
. . ' • jMP
BJ :
|l|lf
fm
jb j
■,. 'lot
" j ■: V
..
—j
WMM
h>
More Than
% the Shave
depends upon the lather,
and the lather depends
upon getting Williams’
Shaving Soap. Most
used because it has
never been equaled in
ability to soften the
beard, keep a rich,
moist, creamy lather,
allay irritation, and make
shaving easy and safe.
It’s dangerous econ-
omy to experiment on
your face with other
makes.
Sold by Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers, all over the world; or
mailed to any address on receipt of
price in stamps.
Williams’Shaving Sticks, Is.
Williams’ Luxury Tablets, Is.
Williams’ American Shaving Tablets, 66.
(Trial Size) of Williams’ Shaving
Stick, 2d. Trial Tablet Williams’ Shav-
ing Soap for id. stamp by addressing
THE J. B. WILLIAMS CO.
65 Gt. Russell St., London, W. C.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
Main Office and Factories,
GLASTONBURY, CONN., U.'S.A.
BEN
_ rv — —-v in 5 and 20 pound Boxes.
FIGS FINEST FRUIT in the WORLD.
Business, Robbery, etc.
A little learning very nearly proved a dangerous
thing to Fatteh Barack, an Afghan litigant, who has
been troubling the Perth courts. Fatteh. has been
losing some money in his legal amusements lately,
and, so his enemies said, to put the balance of
his swag' beyond the reach of the Law’s talons, he
invested it in the Savings Bank under assumed names.
Being a man of culture, nothing less, it is alleged,
than the names of three great Persian poets would satisfy
his taste ; and the bank clerk received deposits for Omar
Khayyam, Hafiz and Firdusi. But the legal nose is keen
for plunder, and scented what it suspected was Fatteh’s
plant. Lawyer Le Mesurier argued that the gentlemen
aforesaid were dead and so could not deposit money, and
then sought to attach the poets’ deposits for his costs.
Fortunately for the honor of learning, however, Justice
Parker held that there was no evidence to show that
Omar, Hafiz, and Firdusi were not living ornaments of
Perth society. Thus, in a manner of speaking, poetry
was vindicated.
* * * *
“L.S.”: Re “ F.C.’s” par on chemists’ prices (B.
5/10/’O5). “ Common salt ”is not pure sodium chloride.
What “F.C.” got was probably the chemically pure
substance (Melbourne wholesale price, Is. 6d. lb.). His
remarks on “spirits of salts” are rubbish—wholesale
price 2d. to 3d. lb. (weight) ; retail (Melbourne shops, at
least) (id. a pint. But pure hydrochloric (mur'atic) acid
retails at 2d. oz. (measure). “F.C.” probably obtained
the latter. Paris green: wholesale price Is. 3d. lb. ;
retail 3d. to 6d. per oz. The book-signing at which
“ F.C.” cavils merely happens to be a check on the
casual lunatic, suicide, or murderer. As to “suspicious
regularity” of prescription charges, “F.C.” is surely
aware that a fixed scale depending on the dose is
adopted. He does not pay for the intrinsic value of the
drugs, any more than he pays his medical man solely for
the hire of his instruments when an operation is per-
formed. A chemist puts in three or more years of study
and examination, and four years apprenticeship (usually
working 15 hours a day for no pay) in the best years of
his life, to acquire proficiency in dispensing. His know-
ledge is surely worth the few coppers profit. And the
tame chemist who took the 2s. 6d. and didn’t smash the
asafmtida bottle on “F.C.’s” head for his schoolboy
performance was probably a cutter and an outsider and a
pirate. The non-unionist is parasitic on all businesses.
* * * »
Announced that Japan, “having purchased
some of the best blood stock in Australia,” will now go in
for breeding. Horse-breeding used to be one of the great
industries of N.S.W., and it was “natural” enough to
please the most rabid Foreign-trader, but somehow —pro-
bably because greed led to the export of all the best
breeding stock and left mostly weeds behind—it has lan-
guished of late. At one time the “ Waler ” went all over
the world carrying everywhere on his sure, swift feet the
reputation of Australia ; but now the export of horses is
comparatively trifling.
* * « 9
The Rockefeller Oil Trust has practically bought
up the Republic of Nicaragua—primarily with the idea of
exploiting its mines, and no doubt with an eye to the
ultimate importance of the place when the Panama Canal
is cut.
• * * *
“ Sussex-street ” has always borne a bad name
amongst butter-producers. The odor has now reached
fowl and egg dealing.. A co-operative society has been
formed to protect the interests of the producer against
“ Sussex-street.” One man says that his account sales
always recorded dead fowls and broken eggs, till the
monotony of the damage made him tired. Then he
instructed his son, on the quiet, to intercept a case of his
fowls, 16 in two compartments. At the sale-room; the 16
fowls were all alive; hut when the account sales were ■
rendered, as usual, so many were reported dead. The
salesman had the choice given him of a summons or pay-
ment in full. He paid. Another producer set a trap in
the matter of eggs. He was also tired ; so taking advan-
tage of the fact that he was personally unknown to the
agent, he attended and bought his own consignment of
the culmination of the hen. There were no breakages. ;
When he attended on the agent a week later, and put
before him the bill he had paid as buyer, and the account
sales he had received as seller, there was trouble for the
agent.
* * * *
“Two Seas ’’: One bears a lot these times about
cutting up big estates, and putting men on the land free,
with tools and tucker to keep them going until the
returns roll. in. Heaps of men are willing to take a turn
at “ struggling on the land ” on those terms; but not a
voice is raised on behalf of the poor little struggling
grocer. I’m one of them, and I venture to suggest that
the Government should resume Anthony Hordern’s new
emporium, for a start, arjd cut it up into small shops,
filled with a year’s supplies, and provide each tenant with
a delivery van and a man with an apron to do the heavy
work, and some small change in the till. I feel reasonably
sure that we would struggle with the tea and sugar busi-
ness just as satisfactorily to the State as the men who are
provided with free land and tools struggle with the soil.
We would be in a position to pay rates and taxes, any-
how, whereas the man on the land, with all his struggling,
is too poor to pay anyone but the land agent.
* » * *
At a recent meeting of a M.L. Star Bowkett
Building Society it was suggested that scrutineers be
appointed to examine the marbles previous to a drawing,
owing to suspicion of “fake.” Members were bashful
about accepting the position, one portly gentleman refus-
ing nomination point blank. “He doesn’t want the job,”
growled a voice from the back ; “ he knows his marble is
coming up. to-night.” Five minutes afterwards that
member’s marble did come up for a £5OO drawing. The
meeting then resolved itself into a society to debate the
laws of chance.
* •* * *
“Xela” gets his hair off : —“On a recent visit
to Sydney I went into a hairdressing establishment for a
shave. The tonsorial artist (I allow no common barber
to shave me) who operated told me that his shop con-
tained not one Australian-made article. ‘From the hair
restorer to the clothes brush, all imported, sir.’ * Poor
Australia ! ’ I murmured. 1 Your pardon, sir ; not quite so
close. Certainly, sir. I’d advise you to join our club ;
eighteenpence a week, and every attention. Your face
requires a little of our famous New York Pimple Ex-
terminator, sir.’ This rather annoyed me, as I’m
proud of my face, chiefly on account of its not being an
imported article, so I inquired if he’d paid duty on his
manners, but didn’t wait to hear.”
* . *. * *
Slave-buyers in China take stringent precautions
against the danger of purchasing lepers. One test is to
take the live stock under consideration into a dark room
and set a blue, light burning. If the slave’s face has a
greenish hue> in. this light he or she is thought to be
untainted ; a reddish appearance is held to indicate
danger of leprosy. Whether there is anything in the
Chow’s theory or not, his belief in the necessity of thus
inspecting the human property shows, how . large a pro-
portion of the population is suspected of the disease.
Still the cheap labor advocates sneer at all efforts to
guard against incidental importation of this Mongolian
loathsomeness, and talk vaguely about the “ hempire ”
when the subject crops up.
“ The Prooshau ” : The Indian hawker, know-
ing the bush youth’s weakness for scent, always carries a
good Supply, and the first bar of his overture, when
“bundarl” and “barsket” are displayed, is usually,
“ Buy bottle scent, young fellah ? verry cheap, only one
shilling.” Jim reckons he wants “ Poppin Axe,” where-
upon Mucka Singh declares, “ Better the scent this kind,
better the brand ; young gurrl mor-re like, I know.” So
the sale is made ; and when Jim goes dpwn to the “ kick”
at Mint “ Crick,” and expects to get a‘“ knock-down ” to
the “ noo. teacher,” he scents himself to the very boots,
and goeth forth like a rose leaf on the' breeze to make his
conquest. I saw;him enter, the. country shop one even-'
ing, just prior to a dance, intending to buy a hanfiker-
chief and a bottle of scent, but, only having' fid. over the
price of the ball-ticket, he was dismayed to find nothing
cheaper in the scent line than that amount. “Cripes,”
he said, “I wanted,a nose-rag too, but that’ll’ave to
wait, I s’pose ; must ’ave the bottle er sniff, if it’s a quid.”
* * * *
“Edyson” : Mr. Carruthers will be pleased to
hear of my friend the Dago. He keeps a small fruit stall
in the city, and I knew him long ago as an enthusiastic
Federationist who expressed His sentiments in impassioned
but barbaric English. The other night he had changed
his tune completely, and was cursing Federation from cars
to crupper. I asked an explanation. He spluttered in
his anguish : “ They tell-a me the Federash she make-a
the business mooch good, so I do-a the big talk for the
Federash. Now the Federash come, what it is I see? No,
saie-a for the peanut—no sale-a for the peanut at all! ”


o
L)L>
O
/
7
m
y
m
u
//.
Vj
U
m
THE best thing' that can be said about a Watch is, “ It’s an
1 Honest Watch.” It tells you the correct time always—you
never find it mislead you. If you want just such a Watch we can
recommend for your perusal our 48-page Booklet of Honest
Watches, prices for which range from 14/6 to £7O. We will be
pleased to post a copy to any who will make the request. We
mention on this page half-a-dozen dependable Watches, any of
which we will send free and safe by post, together with our
written guarantee, on receipt of remittance. ORDER TO-DAY.
fd
4/2 GEORGE
ST SYDNEY.
fg
For the Average Man
we find our special make of Waltham Lever Watch is par-
ticularly suited. The price is comfortably within his reach
while the Watch is neat and handsome in appearance.
The movement is jewelled, f-plate, with exposed winding
wheels, Brequet spring,
and compensation balance.
The winding is keyless,
and the cases are of the
Hunting style, made of
Hall-Marked Solid Silver.
We guarantee and sell this
Watch for
df
A Three-Quarter Plate
English Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the movement being so constructed
that the Watch is thinner than would be the case with a
full plate Watch. The b lance wheel being situated below
the level of the plate, is specially protected from damage.
We offer a Gentleman’s Keyless Silver Hunting, Jewelled,
Brequet Spring, Com-
p usatiou Balance, En-
glis i Lever Watch, with
guarantee, for
I
A Special Dust
Protected Watch
and one that has met with general approval, is the “ Excel-
sior.” This is an old favorite of ours, but lately we have
completed important improvements, including the addition
of a full dust cap, which completely covers the works and
excludes all dust and damp. It is a man’s Watch, fully
jewelled, f-plate movement, Brequet Spring, Compensation
Balance and has full Hunting Solid Silver Cases. A
splendid country
watch is the Excel-
sior English Lever,
and we post it to-
gether with our war-
ranty, for
V MAKERS PRICE v?
riW
For the Woman who
takes note of time
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise the
purchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Gold
Case jointed, Waltham Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeping, and were made especially to our order by the
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement
and winding work, etc., is
on the same system as the
men’s size. We will post
one free with guarantee
on receipt of
ff
An Ideal Lady’s Watch
is our 15 Jewel American Waltham Keyless Lever in its
18ct. Gold, Engraved, Hunting Cases. Manufactured to
suit the Australian climate, it has all the known improve-
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, and is fitted
with best Compensation Balance and Safety Hair Spring.
It is a High-Grade Watch in
every way, and will give
unequalled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
a
Get a GoiJ Watch now
Don’t put it off until possession gives you no pleasure, buy
it now wh( n you would really find satisfaction and delight
in it. We can supply-a 14ct. Gold Filled, (only you can tell
it is not Solid Gold through and through) Watch with a
guarantee by the Waltham Watch Co. that the case will
wear and look well for five and twenty years. The move-
ment is a fine f-pl .te Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Spring Waltham.
No man need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer tliis exception-
al one, with full
case and movement
guarantee, for
gdfgdfg
Visitors to Melbourne!
DO NOT FAIL TO VISIT . . .
J. & A. BOYES
For
MECHANICAL
TOYS.
MSS
<?»
STEAM and CLOCKWORK
LOCOHOTIVES,
LATEST MODELS In
BEAUTIFUL FINISH.
Toy Sewing Machines.
MAGIC LANTERNS.
Cast Iron Trains.
We keep the most durable Toys
obtainable.
From 3s, to £5,
m
n
IKK
Steam and Clockwork Trains
Complete with Rails and Carriages. At all Prices from 12s. to £5.
LATEST
STEAM
and
CLOCKWORK
MODELS*
SI
Motor Cars,
Torpedo Boats, I
Battleships* 1
fg
BEST VALUE in AUSTRALIA.
HOT AIR ENGINES*
Donkey Engines, from 3s, ss, I Os, 15s.
A Great Variety to choose from.
SEND FOR 1906 CATALOGUE (60 pages). READY EARLY IN NOVEMBER .
J. & A. RfIYES. 241 & 243 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams,
CONSULTATION
Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., November 7
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic-, November 7
MELBOURNE CUP (Special), Flemington, Vic., November 7
SANDHURST CUP, Pendigo, Vic., November 29
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 10/4 each.
... (drawn morning of race) 100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
PARCELS
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3cl. per Parcel.
True to Nature.
WOLFF’S
IMPORTED..
44
<j\o^
ftTS”
THE FINEBT
PERFUME
IN THE MARKET.
SOLD BY ALL
Chemists and Storekeepers,
SOLE AGENTS.
LOHMANN & Go ■ p Melbourne & Sydney.
df
I,
a
m
hf
gh
Heame’s Bronchitis Core.
thcb famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
lliose who have, taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis' Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain 01*
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where ‘ Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
I OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
“ I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid
results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts like
magic.”
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH,
Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld,
Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“I have been a Bronchial subject for nearly forty years,
but have found your Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDHOUSE, J.P.,
Stawell Brewery,
Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is
the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
the Chest, and Sore Throat.”
(Mrs.) JOHN McKENZIE,
Werona, Victoria.
"I suffered very much from Asthma for four years, and
tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any benefit.
I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la, last
Friday, and a bottle of your No. 2 Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2
Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON,
‘* Leongatha,” Riversdale Road,
Hawthorn, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.”
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES, .
Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte,
South Australia.
“ As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing
in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very
much enlarged sale and great prosperity.”
JOHN KING,
Chemist, Ballarat.
11 1 have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis
Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I am cured.” J. WRIGHT,
c/o Mr. D. McLean,
Camperdown, Victoria.
“ I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis,
during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now
completely cured.” JAMES WILLIAMS,
Huntly-street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
" It affords me great pleasure to testify to the mar-
vellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
F. W. BINNS,
c/o A. H. Massina & Co.
Australian Journal Office,
Melbourne.
“ Pur nine years my. wife suffered from Asthma and
Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, but none
succeeded till I got Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma
Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago.
She is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.”
A. ORR,
Clonbinane, Sunday Creek,
Broadford, Victoria.
“The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis
Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
F. 0. GREEN,
State School, Rosebud, via Dromana,
Victoria.
“I feel truly grateful to you for your invaluable
medicine. It is marvellous the good it did me.”
ISABEL P. WILSON,
“Coanwood,” Drummond-street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
“ I am glad to tell you that I have heen quite free from
Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure.”
W. UTTON,
7 Little Railway-street, Durban,
Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to
say that it is without doubt absolutely the best nasdicine
on the market for coughs and colds.”
A. E. ANDERSON,
Telegraph Office, Fremantle,
West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by vour Bronchitis
Cure, more than 12 months ago, and he' has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my
son, 5 years old, who has had a cold ever since he was
born. I have only given him a few doses, and he is better
already.” (Mrs.) W. J. WISHART,
Warwick, Queensland.
“Having used your Bronchitis Cure in mv family at
different times for years past, I wish to testify to the
relief always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any
complaint arising therefrom.”—Yours, etc.,
E. V. GODDARD,
19 Fitzgerald-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here
We sell more of it than of any other chest medicine we
stock.” WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is the best m; Heine I I ave ever
taken." D. WILLIAMS,
Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“lean thoroughly testify to thewonderf.il efficacy of
your bronchitis Cure in a consumptive < ough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect what-
ever.” T. LEW S,
Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
“ Your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure has been more to
me than money could ever pay. I am quite free from
Asthma now, and feel very grateful to you.”
ISA S. TOSACH,
Virginia-street, Geelong.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is all you des-r be tto be.”—
Yours most respectfully, R. J. M‘CL ILL. ND,
Red Jacket, via WaLialla, Victoria.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure myself, and have
recommended it to others, with mist beneficial results.”
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON,
Gumeraeha, South Australia.
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in t'.ie sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was
magical in its effects.”—CHAS. W ELBOW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my fanii'y,
and it cured each of them in from one to three doses.” —•
P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in
case I should want it.” —D. M'DONALD, Trinkery, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.”—
A. B. SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington,
Sydney.
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The
result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.”—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.”
S. STEELE,
Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
“ I suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years ; wa3
that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another; often had to sit up in bed part of the night.
Tried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists, without
success ; was almost tired of trying anything when, one
day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to
give it a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and
\sthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breath-
,ng and distressing cough have ail disappeared. I cannot
speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recom*
mend it to all my friends.”
ELIZA LANGTON,
Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to
in orm you that your Bronchitis Cure I as done us both
a wonderful deal of good, having quick I’. (..red us both.”
R. BASSETT,
Strath Creek, via Broadfcrd, Victoria.
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely
left me.” (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY,
Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, from
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present free*
dom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN O. TRELAWNEY,
Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the
doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two
bottles of it made me quite well. ”
H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure.
This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.”
A. ALLEN,
Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Broil
chitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most valu
able medicine.”
(Mrs.) J. SLATER,
Warragul, Victoria.
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct heaiing power.” Signed
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-st., Geelong and ss)
other leading residents.
HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d-
' SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY
branch depots o fli ce . NOi pi rs t Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


Good for the hands,
Good for the clothes,
SUNLIGHT SOAP
GOOD FOR METAL,
GOOD FOR WOODWORK,
HONHiY BftAND
BOVRIL
is the Cook’s best friend.
An appetising and nutritious soup
is quickly made by the use of
Bovril and it renders Curries and
all made dishes palatable and
strengthening.
Bladder Disease Can be
Cured.
From Mr._ Ale x. Dickson, 90 East Belt, Christchurch, N.Z., 21st Februarv 1004
During recent years I have been troubled with urinary difficulties. .VI v bladder seemed sore
and irritated and my physician said I had catarrh of the bladder, which was difficult to overcome
° f T" n, Va ? Ced years ; . Warner s Safe Cure was recommended to me, and I took
frequent doses, hardly daring to believe that I should be helped, but, to mv relief, ( found that
the irritation gradually subsided, the difficulty passed away, and my general condition
V m KT d - 1 ha ' e enj ?/ ed SP i ei w d hea,fch c f or the past six months, and readv "feel younger than
I did some years ago, thanks to Warner s Safe Cure.” " ’ y 8
From Mr. Christian Lawson, Cook Street, Auckland, N.Z., 17th March 1904
“I suffered from inflammation of the bladder for thirteen months, anil only those who simi-
larly suffer know anything about the agony I endured. It is one of the most painful disease™
person can suffer from, and one of the hardest to get rid of. Had it not been for Warner’s Safe
Cure I feel that I should be in my grave to-day, but, thanks to its wonderful efficacv, I am in
the best of health instead. I took fourteen bottles, and felt my health and strength gradually
three n inonths eheVe restoratlon 1S P erma nent, as I have not had the slightest pain for over
From Capt. W. J. Stuart, Master Mariner, Station Avenue, Coburg, Vic 6th April 1903
Wo 1 , IS o Wl r th o Uch p i eas " re tha ! 1 beg t 0 H 0 you of the g rea * benefit I have derived from taking
Warners Safe Cure. In the early part of last January I had a chill which turned to »
severe attack of Inflammation of the Bladder. I consulted two doctors, and after examin-
mg me each said it was a disease common to men of my age (I am over 60) and that
I could only get relief by using an instrument, as medicine would do me no good I posi
tively refused to let either of them use an instrument on me, but at once procured a bottle
of Warners Safe Cure I conscientiously and truthfully declare that before finishing the
first bottle I got absolute relief and began to feel better in every respect. I have continued to
take the mpdicine, and my health has wonderfully improved. lam in as good health now as
L Ca !!- e r!r exp -' ct tO - be ’ and my recovery is entirely due to Warner’s Safe Cure. I carefully observed
the diet dnections given in your book. I most strongly recommend Warner’s Safe Cure to anyone
who suffers as I did, and can only add that to me it has proved invaluable.” J
Writing on the 7th March, 1904, Capt. Stuart, says:—“ I have received your letter of sth inst
making inquiry as to whether I can now confirm the statements made in my letter to you of 6th April
last year and am very pleased indeed to be able to advise you that I have’ had no symptoms of any
return of bladder trouble, and my general health is so satisfactory that I am constantly being con
gratulated on my renewed vigor by all my friends. I can only add that I cannot be too grateful, as I
“remarkable'” The effect of the medidne »> “7 case has been
Elizabeth Roben, “ Brighton,” French Street, Kogarah, Sydney, N.S.W., 25th September,
, Ab r U 4? ight ye ?, rs / lgo 1 was stacked by great pain at the stomach and severe vomiting I took
a bottle of Warner s Safe Cure, but it did me no good. I then went to the hospital and underwent
an operation, but was not. cured. The pain I suffered was terrible. The medicine the doctors
prescribed gave me no relief. I was brought home and treated by another medical man but still
obtained no relief. He at last said he could do no more for me, and my friends were sent for Mv
sister having great faith in Warner’s Safe Cure brought a bottle with her, and gave me a tablesnoonful
every quarter of an hour from eleven o’clock until one, and the relief was wonderful. I continued to
take Warner s Safe Cure and Winner’s Safe Pills until I was restored to health.”
From Mr Joel Weatherby Bolton, King Edward Street, North East Valley, Dunedin, New Zealand
10th I ebruary, 1904. ’
“I was in good health until about four years ago, when I noticed that my back became lame and
sore. Ihe pains kept increasing, with severe twitches and slow, exhaustive aches. I found that I
had Inflammation of the Bladder. I tried many remedies without gettting better, but finally
decided to try Warner s Safe Cure, and within a few days, to my great joy, found relief. I con-
tinued to take the medicine, and at the end of three months was restored to perfect health. lam
only too pleased to endorse the value of Warner s Safe Cure.”
From Mr. Joseph Agnew, Fairfield, N.S.W., 18th September, 1903
i ‘l Som ?, year l : S ago 1 was atta( i ed J?y great pains in the groin, which at times were so bad that I
wTw^f Z r T n l • w W^ tr6a n ed r. by dc f torS ’ bu * found 110 relief. A friend advised me to take
Warner s oafe Oure, which X did, and aftei taking two bottles X was quite cured/ 9
From Mr. J. Fredk. Holmes, Auburn Road South, Hawthorn, Vic., 12th February 1905
„ - 1 hav , e plea f r< ; m stating that while in Sydney I was very much troubled with excess of
COHEN AT THE
DOOR
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ONCE UPON a midnight mournful, while
I wrote a leader scornful,
And the savage, sullen satire did exude
at every pore,
Whilst a distant dog was yapping, suddenly there
came a slapping
As if some pale spook was flapping—flapping at
my sanctum-door.
“’Tis some creditor,” I muttered, “with a bill I
owed of yore,
Only that, and nothing more.”
Yea, distinctly I remember, it was sometime
last November
That the bailiff did dismember all my household’s
precious store.
’Twas a time of sodden sorrow ; vainly I had
sought to borrow,
But they bade me call to-morrow, though my heart
was sad and sore.
“ ’Tis the bailiff,” I repeated, “ who has called on
me before.”
Here I opened wide the door.
On the mat there stood a Figger like an elephant,
but bigger,
He was piebald—partly nigger, partly specked
with yellow o’er.
“This,” I gasped, “ is Retribution—that remorse-
less institution
Which in endless resolution stalks the Night’s
insolvent shore.
This is Cohen —whom we’re owin’ forty billion
quid or more
It was Cohen at the door !
It was Cohen, Isaac Cohen, and a garment
strangely flowin’,
Made in arabesques of I O U’s and old P.N.’s he
wore.
‘Twas Australia’s great arch-bailiff; “Sir,” I
gasped, “ it’s no avail if
You insist that we shall settle on the spot our
debts of yore.
Shall we e’er be independent, and owe foreign
Jews no more ? ”
And he snuffled “Deverbore !”
“Bailiff,” said I, “thing of evil, bailiff still, if
Jew or devil,
Sent by Fate in ghastly judgment to this non-
finaneial shore—
To this bankrupt land Australian pawed by
every envious al'en—
This, our Home by paupers haunted—tell me,
Cohen, I implore—
Is there— is there balm in Gilead—must we serve
thee evermore ? ”
Said the Hebrew, “ Ever bore.”
“’Tis a lie,” I said, upstarting, for mixed shame
and anger darting
Permeated all my being to its hot, indignant
core ;
“ Take this half-quid as a token that thy cursed
spell is broken—
As a sign that we will pay you and be bled by
Jews no more.
We shall ship your bloated carcase with the D.T.
and the Akgus—
We shall sool you off Australia with a loud
emphatic roar ”
But he answered “ Deverbore ! ”
And that Cohen, never shifting, whilst our land is
doomward drifting,
Stands in bloated contemplation at Australia’s
bankrupt door.
And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon who
is scheming,
And the haggard slush-lamp streaming shows his
Nose upon the floor !
Shall that Nose loom in our portal like a vulture’s
beak immortal—
Shall the Nation be tormented by that spectre
ever more ?
By the grim, eternal spectre of I. Cohen at the
door?
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
Working the Game.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BALAAM pulled out his pipe with a
grunt of satisfaction.
“Tell yer what,” he said ; “ there’s yer
boots. They ain’t fust-class ; but we cud git a
ikey lot o’ drinks fur them boots.”
The Weed spat over his bluey with con-
temptuous skill.
“ Tell yer what,” he said. “ I ain’t goin’ ter to
do no sech bloomin’ thing. Go an’ swap yer own
bloomin’ boots.”
Balaam stuck out his feet. They explained the
situation mutely.
“Fat lot I’d git fur them,” he remarked.
“ Don’t be a chouse. Let’s hev a suck-in, an’ go
ter Kooringa. It on’y a mile on grass, an’ they’ll
be bound to dredge out suthin’ ter wear. Go on.
We ain’t had a booze since sun-up.”
The Weed looked with sudden interest past the
little wayside pub., and across the darkening
paddock.
“Well, I ain’t goin’ ter chanst it,” he said.
“ S’pose they didn’t guv me no boots. Where’d 1
be then?”
Balaam sucked at his pipe. The heat and thirst
of a long day lay heavy on them, and the smell of
beer came down the road from the pub. It put
genius into Balaam.
“Gimme yer boots while yer goes an’ arsks
Then yer won’t hev lost nothin’ if they says ‘ no ’ ”
“I’ll have lost me boots,” said The Weed
darkly. “What’d you be doin’ while I’m askin’’
I’d like ter know?”
Balaam looked him up and down as the original
Balaam may have looked on the ass.
“ You orter be aimin’yer livin’ in Parlymint,”
he Well, .. plant em somewheres where
1 ean t fin em, an arsk.”
“ I bin there before,” said The Weed. “ They
says as they never has anythin’ ter give away but
dog-bites.”
He lay on his back, with his head on his bluey,
and blew smoke in the eyes of the stars. But the
smell of the beer dragged Balaam to his feet.
Yer don’t know the meanin’ o’ friendship,” he
said. “ I’m goin’ to Kooringa on me own ; an’—
they’ll guv me suthin’ as I kin swap.”
“ They won’t. . . ’nless yer brings the dog back
clamped on ter yer,” said The Weed. But Balaam
shuffled into the gloaming, unheeding.
There were five girls on the Kooringa verandah,
and several men. From the lighted rooms behind
sheafs of radiance sifted through the darkness of the
garden. Suddenly from the shadows came the
barking of dogs and the yell of someone in fear.
Two men in evening dress jumped down the
verandah steps; hauled a crumpled thing from
under a laurel bush, then hid it with haste and
irreverent laughter. For the crumpled thing was
Balaam in a dirty flannel shirt and a kilt made of
a tattered coat.
Take them brutes off of me,” he howled.
“ They're smellin’ me legs .. . they be bitin’ me:”
“They won't if they know what’s good for
them, said the fair-headed man. “ What are
you doing in this rig-out, eh ?”
Balaam explained very lucidly that he had been
bathing in the river beyond, when a tramp came
by and stole the part of his attire which he could
least spare. “So I hanged round till it was dark,
an’ then I corned along, thinkin’ as surely I’d drop
on someb’dy as ’ud do suthin’ fur me.”
The fair-headed man looked at the other, and
his eyelid flickered on his cheek.
“Come along round to the little office at the
end of the verandah,” he said. “ Keep behind
him, Bert. All right, old chap. We’ll fix you
somehow.”
“You’re a gennleman,” said Balaam, in deep
gratitude. .
I know it. Don’t apologise. Here you are.
Keep an eye on him, Bert, in case anyone comes
in.”
The fair-headed one returned inside of five
minutes with a pair of grey check trousers over
his arm. Balaam looked on them. Then he felt
very sick. For they held the shape of his legs
yet, and that darn on the knee had been put in by
his own hands yesterday.
“’Fraid this is the best we can do,” said
the fair-headed man, regretfully. “ They’re not
very clean, I think, and they’re a bit shiny from
too much sitting down. But they’re better than
nothing, eh ? I shall be very pleased if you’ll
accept them.”
Balaam took them, and climbed into them, mur-
muring gratitude in broken words.
“Don’t mention it,” said the fair-headed man,
cheerfully. “Always glad to help a fellow in a
mess, you know. Mind the step. I’ll see you
down to the gate. O.i, don t mention it. No
trouble at all. Good night.”
Balaam did not speak, even when the clang of
the gate shut him out in the silence of the pad dock,
He crawled back to The Weed, and sat down
under the hedge on his swag.
“Plow long did it take ’em ter find it?” de-
manded The Weed, without removing his eyes
from the stars.
“ Wot yer gittin’ at ?” asked Balaam, in sudden
wrath. *
“Nothin’ pertickler,” said The Weed. “On’y
I tried the boot dodge last time I was by, an’ they
bunted ’em up an’ guv ’em back ter me. The
blessed dog ran my tracks back to where my boots
was planted. I thought as you might’a’bin tryin’
on suthin’o’that sort.”
“ 111 knock the ’ead off of you some day soon,
Weed,” said Balaam, thoughtfully.
G. B. LANCASTER.


HEADACHE
WISE doctors treat Headaches as a symptom only, not as a disease.
An aching head is proof of the disorder of some other organ—
generally the stomach or liver. Bile Beans are so successful in
curing headaches, because they remove the root cause, by correct-
ing and stimulating the liver and
digestive system. Mrs. S. A.
Masters, of 18 Jarrett-street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney, says :—“ I have
found your Bile Beans are an
excellent remedy for a disordered
liver. At times I have been so
bad that I did not know what to
eat. My appetite was considerably
impaired, and although at nights I
have felt like having a good sleep,
I could not do so, and in conse-
quence, felt completely done up dur-
ing the day, and suffered agony with
sick and nervous headaches. I was
induced to take your medicine by
seeing an advertisement wherein
Bile Beans had cured a iellow sufferer, and can now say from my own ex-
perience that Bile Beans are a perfect remedy for sick headache, loss of
appetite, sleeplessness, and those innumerable symptoms of a sick liver.
I would now use no other medicine, and always keep a box at hand
for an emergency.”
■ ■ --B
BILE BEANS are a SAFE FAMILY MEDICINE and a PROVED CURE for
BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES,
DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD,
BAD BREATH, ANAEMIA, DISTURBED SLEEP, LOSS OF APPETITE,
PIMPLES, and ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS, SUMMER FAG, and, in fact, all
ailments that owe their origin to defective Bile Flow, Assimilation or Digestion. BILE
BEANS are obtainable generally at Is. or 2s. 9d. Large Box (contains three
times the Is. lJ;d. size).
fgh
4
ONE
BEAN
ONE
DOSE.
HONESTLY WORTH A GUINEA!
Pears’Aniuial
XMAS, 1905. Heady Oovember 27th.
‘Jlelson & I}is dimes’
Vice-Admiral Lord CHARLES BERESFORD
and H. W. WILSON,
With over 100 SUPERB ILLUSTRATIONS.
Published in celebration of the Nelson Centennial, and appealing
directly to the National patriotism of every one of British birth
throughout the Empire. The life of the greatest Admiral of the
past, by the Greatest Admiral of the present. Also
3 tfIRSE PRESENTATION PLATES
(Each Printed in 13 Colours),
in the best and most artistic style of the Chromo-Lithographic Art, viz:
1. “ Saluting the yfttniral
By Professor A. W. HOLDEN.
28% x 18% inches *
2. “ Sweethearts ” By fred. MORGAN. 23 x ny t Fnchoa.
3. “Jhe Ijappy JKother”
By Madame HENRIETTE RONNER
19% x 13% Inches.
THE WHOLE ENTIRELY PRINTED IN ENGLAND.
Sold by all Booksellers* Wholesale Agents for Australasia—
GORDON & GOTCH.
James Vanvervecken and His
Moral.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE name of James Vanvervecken fco-day
recalls rather a fact than a personality.
The memory of his colossal failure, the
number of thousands whom he robbed, are of
greater interest than the man himself. But among
the men of his day, even in the first shock of that
crash which heralded the bursting “boom,” the
greatest exclamation was “ What a man !”
A short thick-set man, slightly corpulent, of
erect carriage and rather skulking walk; full
lipped, with heavily-pouched eyes of staring
habit, a taste for sombre clothes, and a detestation
of jewellery, given to speaking quickly with occa-
sional moments of hesitation —not a stammer, but
a pause as if to pick up the exact words he wanted
—such was James Vanvervecken. In hard drink-
ing days he was the possessor of a “capacity”
unequalled from Cairns to Fremantle. No
church-goer; a card-player and racing-man, in a
mild way; knowing everybody, yet without any
easily-designated close friends. These were his
principal characteristics up to a certain date.
Then the man underwent a sudden and delibe-
rate-transformation. He ceased to drink. Van-
vervecken for some twenty years had never gone
to bed drunk, but he had never gone to bed quite
sober. And, by merely willing it, he was able to
become and remain a total abstainer for ten weary
years. Quite what forced his determination can
never be known. But the men who examined his
affairs afterwards noted, curiously, that, just at
that date, Vanvervecken passed from the ranks of
commonplace thieves into the elevated condition
of a financial Sir Henry Morgan.
He did things, then and afterwards, which
amounted so nearly to the miraculous that one
auditor is said to have entertained the mad idea
that Vanvervecken was not altogether human.
The details are not incidental to this story; enough
to suggest that he mortgaged several large proper-
ties two or three times over, and that he devoured
the entire body of some half-a-dozen trust estates.
For ten years he walked, lived and slept on some
five or six hundred “live” shells, the smallest of
which could have blown him into Darlinghurst.
And in that ten years not one single grey hair
showed in his head.
Then the boom came, adding to the tortures of
the certain hell which he must have seen ahead of
him, a peep of the open gates of heaven. He be-
gin to make money almost as quickly as he had
previousij stolen it. To square things up he re-
quired an immense sum, but men made and lost
immense sums in those days.
S > ad led to the very considerable business of
watching his few hundred live shells, he went out
into the battle of the boom, and led the fight. At
this period one can easily imagine what the temp-
tation to have one. night’s good liquor-up meant
to the man—one night free from the spectre of
Nemesis—one night where his fiercely active brain
would not be eternally conning over the possibili-
ties of those shells. “Nightly,” so his valet said
afterwards, “ I used to hear Mr. Vanvervecken
jump out of bed and pull a chair across the room
to his writing desk. My room was underneath
his, and I could hear plainly.” One imagines him
just falling to sleep, when the memory of A
flashes across his mind. This Ais a very small
shell, but it is little things which great men
forget; so Vanvervecken, jumping out of bed,
sits at his desk in his pyjamas to indite the neces-
sary letter that will prevent the very slight
inquiry which would cause A to burst and ignite
B and all the other letters of the alphabet.
He was an extraordinary correspondent. The
exigencies of his position obliged him to write
scores of letters which otherwise would have been
clerks’ work.
With drink, he had dismissed, also, from his
life another little vice. A very charming, dainty
piece of vice, too—prettily framed at Vanver-
vecken’s expense in the cosiest of little houses.
“Vice” shed some very angry tears, and used
some surprisingly strong language, till finding
that, though the man went, the cottage remained,
she took comfort and another comforter.
At his club one night Vanvervecken remarked
that “a business man who talks in his sleep
should never marry.”
Perhaps he was thinking that it was hard
enough to carry a secret through the day without
blurting it out. For, mind you, before he became
a wholesale buccaneer he had been a social man,
though without near and dear friends. So the
boom went on, and Vanvervecken continued to
make money. Almost there was a reasonable
chance that he might be able to haul down “The
Jolly Roger,” and sail the commercial seas once
more an honest merchantman.
Then the bolt fell from a blue sky.
Without a preparatory tremor, the boom
opened beneath the country’s feet, engulfing a
leading bank. Vanvervecken was leaving his
office at luncheon time when a pale-faced, wild-
eyed man grabbed him by the arm.
“ Have you heard ? ” he gasped ; “ we’ve put up
the shutters ! ”
It was the Chairman of Directors, a man whom
Vanvervecken had known for thirty years, and
the news of his failure meant that Vanvervecken’s
Nemesis had arrived. He stared calmly at the
man’s white, frightened face, then, “Damn you !”
he said, and turning on his heel walked on down
the street.
During that afternoon rumors of a hundred
rocking firms filled the city ; and by night the
well-informed, in some occult way, had arrived at
a glimmer of the truth about Vanvervecken. He
dined at the club, and astonished the waiter by
ordering champagne. In the smoking-room after
dinner it was obvious that he had been drinking.
He talked and laughed as he had not done for ten
years. He spoke of the bank’s failure, frankly
acknowledging that it had hit him for “a few
thou.,” and he gave an inimitable description of
the efforts, during the afternoon, of several
acquaintances to pump him as to his losses.
Finally he made an explanation. “I took an
oath ten years ago not to drink while I was in
business, and I’ve kept it. To-day I made up my
mind to retire, and directly I made up my mind I
went into the nearest bar and had a small bottle.
I think I deserve it. Yes, damn it, we’d better
have another.”
Six of them kept it going. Out of the six the
only one able to walk unassisted to his cab was
Vanvervecken. Afterwards it was computed that
he owed the other five just an even hundred thou-
sand among them.
At his house, before going to his room, he gave
his valet a sealed envelope. It contained prac-
tically t'ne last of his and several others’ fortunes
—a hundred pounds. It was the valet who found
him in the morning:, looking—dead—very much
as he had looked living.
For the moral of his life : The strength that can
break vices can also break banks; and virtue,
with an ulterior motive, is no more respectable
than vice, with an excuse.
SHIRLEY.
Uncle Willie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS soon as Uncle Willie had gone out
of the front gate Elvira placed the baby
in the cradle, and turned severely to-
wards her mother.
Elvira was aged 20 years, and the baby was
seven weeks old. Between them were the ten
other children of Uncle Willie.
“Look here, mother,” she said, “I’m not a
child now, and I’m going to speak. If you are
going to have any more,” pointing disgustedly at
the baby, “you’ll look after them yourself. I’m
just about sick of babies. I wonder you aren’t
ashamed. Father’s got more than he can keep
now; What with you, and us twelve, and grannie,
and the three aunts, and now aunt Alma and her
brats.”
“ Elvira, how dare you ? ” screamed her mother,
her yellow face becoming mottled with rage.
“How can you understand. Wait until you are
married yourself.”
“Understand!” snorted Elvira. “ And—and
how likely am I to get married when I never
have any clothes fit to go out in ? ” And bursting
into tears, she went forth and banged the door.
Outside the gate Uncle Willie mounted his
squeaky bike and panted on his way, his shrivelled,
ginger-whiskered face purple with exertion. There
were three miles of hilly road from Uncle Willie’s
“farm” to his office in the little town. Every
morning, and every afternoon, his small shabby
figure would be seen pedalling painfully up the
steep hills, regardless of mid-day sun or scorching
wind.
“ A family man must keep in health, and there
is nothing like exercise,” he used to say.
Uncle Willie was a family man. Yes, certainly.
There were the twelve, mostly girls, his wife, his
mother, his three sisters, and recently “Aunt
Alma and her brats,” to whom Elvira had wrath-
fully referred.
When single Aunt Alma had earned a good
income as a dressmaker ; but, in order to live up
to the dizzy pinnacle of gentility to which the
had been raised, she now claimed not to know one
end of a needle from the other. When, after
ten years of shiftless married life, her husband
died, leaving her reduced to genteel penury,
she came to Uncle Willie. With his measureless
chivalry he would have considered it indelicate to
suggest that dressmaking was still a paying trade.
So Aunt Alma stayed, and her children went to
school with Uncle Willie’s. The other aunts
stayed too, and none of the girls were old enough
to marry, except Elvira who had no clothes.
So day by day Uncle Willie staggered on under
this crushing load of women, and day by day the
bike staggered under Uncle Willie as he battled
uphill to keep his health and win bread for twenty
mouths.
The crisis came with the failure of the potato
crop.
At the arrival of Aunt Alma, Uncle Willie had
gone to his office and made a calculation of the
too-well-known possibilities of his income. He
reckoned up liis salary as accountant to the local
gas-works, his earnings from his legitimate busi-
ness (a land-agency), his possible earnings from
his little farm, and he saw that the total did not
allow for Aunt Alma and her children. So he
planted more potatoes and trusted in the Lord.
But now the season had come, and potatoes had
failed, and as Uncle Willie panted uphill that
morning he realised that, for the first time in his
life, he was in debt.
But the courage of a lion was hidden under the
shrivelled ginger exterior of Uncle Willie. “As
long as I keep my health,” he said, putting on
extra speed and wincing at a sharper twinge of
his ever-present toothache.
On arriving at the township that day Uncle
Willie took himself to the dentist and explained
that he must have three teeth taken out.
“They interfere with my work,” he said, “and
I must work, and I must keep my health. I think
it is the toothache that is keeping me so poorly.”
“If you wish to take chloroform,” said the
dentist, “it will be necessary to have the doctor
to sound you and administer it.”
But with those twenty gaping mouths on his
conscience Uncle Willie dared not purchase com-
fort at the price of half-a-guinea, so he had them
out without an anaesthetic. Then, with the
scenery swimming round him, he went to his
office and tried to work. But it was no good.
“I’ll take the afternoon off, and the ride will
freshen me up,” murmured Uncle Willie; and,
getting on to his bike, he wobbled uncertainly
along the familiar road, which appeared to him
like a swirling stream beating him back.
“I’ll go home and rest,” he was going to
say ; but once more those twenty mouths gaped
in his mind’s eye, and he realised that there was
no rest there.
At the beginning of the Long Hill it appeared
to be getting very dark.
“ It’s getting late,” he said ; “I’ll go home and
—rest.”
Half-way up it was night, and something black
fell on Uncle Willie and suffocated him. He
stumbled off his bike and fainted.
* * * *
Grannie sat at the head of the table. On either
side of her were ranged, in long, tapering rows,
Alma and the three aunts, Alma’s girls, Elvira
and her ten sisters and brothers. Two large solid
pastry developments containing meat, smoked
before Grannie, and a pile of buttered toast swam
in grease at the other end of the table.
Elvira, poured out the strong tea impartially,
alike foi* Grannie and the dyspeptic babe of twelve
months which sat on her knee.
Suddenly Elvira screamed and dropped the
baby and the strong tea. Some men had come to
the door and they were carrying Uncle Willie on
a stretcher. He looked very small and pale, and
blood had trickled from his mouth and stained his
ginger beard.
The men turned to Elvira in explanation. “We
took ’im into the doctor and ’e sod ees ’eart ’ad
failed.”
ANDYS.


The photograph and letter we are privileged to
publish below testify eloquently to the value of
Ayer's Sarsaparilla:
mi
“In my line of business, viz.,
miner and prospector on the
fields in the West, one is always
subject to feeling out of sorts on
account of the diet. Several
times I had to give up work and
seek medical advice, which is
very expensive there. I got no
relief, and then tried several
tonics, one after the other, hut
they did me no lasting good.
Reading about Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, I gave it a trial. It did me
more good, with lasting effect,
than anything I ever took; and I
now always take two or three
bottles out with me and have
no more occasion for expensive
medical bills.” Wm. Thomp-
son, Hindley St., Adelaide, S. A.
Such a testimonial shows how valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those
who need strength, energy, a clear brain, and ability to prosecute
lifes work successfully. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces
up, makes work easier, gives strength to the muscles, refreshes and
Invigorates, and, best of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Greatest of All Nerve Tonics.
Wopared by DH. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. B, A.
Be sure that you are not induced to take some
Other Sarsaparilla, claimed to be “‘just as good.’*
See that you get “AYER’S” Sarsaparilla.
Ayer’s Pills act on the livers they cure biliousness.
Henry Skinner,
Oiarendon-gfc., South Melbourne*
Tthphom ITo. ma. .^.CATERER
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted him.
Public and
Catered for
on Moat
Banquets and
Private Bails
Reasonable
Terms.
fg
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
THE LOHDOH TREATMENT
FOB TKB
Inebriety*? |rag pdiction
EVERYONE interested in the work of
Victims of DRINK or
DRUG HABIT should be familiar with the
Treatment used at the London Institute.
Pull particulars sent Post Free on appli-
cation. Address—
H. W. BUTTREY,
London Institute, Box 121, IWasterton,
New Zealand .
A SOBER MAN
IS HIS OWN MASTER,
WHY BE A SLAVE TO DRINK?
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure for Alco-
holism never fails. A few doses produce
a wonderful change. The craving for all
intoxicants is destroyed, the nerves be-
come steady, the appetite for food returns,
refreshing sleep ensues.
IT MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY
and Cures are effected Quickly, Easily, Safely
and Permanently. DRUNKENNESS is a Dis-
not a Habit, and can be cured.
MOTHERS, SAVE YOUR SONS,
Release them from bondage whether they will
mr not. My Cure takes away all desire for
liquor without the patient’s knowledge.
My Bool: “Reclaimed,” No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address all Communications to the
Dr. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Hsalth, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
O' * CORO§|
ksS£** cE, °f f £-1
lh» only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy Strength
anti Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stainps for free pamphlet
Price 125., or four quantities m one, 365. Freight extra
Is. and Is. 6d. ’
Agents for Australasia — PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen «5t
Melbourne; N.S. W.~ Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
Bt., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the wise may be. Thousands Cured Annuallv. Remedv
sent oy mail in plain packages. When CURED we charo-'e
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS *
AVrite To-dav.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Efizcfbeth Street, Sydney. ’
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
(j’HLOROPYNE
Caution* —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, <fec. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation."
THE BALLET GIRL
h
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Po3t Fi e#, ts.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lints of Books and KoveUUt
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
WEAK MADE STRONG I
Try Our ELECTRIC BELT, with
SUSPENSORY Attachment.
8*
-2?
Price TWO GUINEA#.
IT Animates the sluggish
circulation, Stimulates
the Brain to Activity.
and. fills the body with
Life, Ambition, and En-
durance. It furnishes the
Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
eveiy morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energy and Vigor. Cata-
logue Post Free.
_ _ ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO..
Dept, H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydnay.
AN INTERESTING
K)ee^r^u?e^? U N G MEN ’ § instructions for the
embitterTf* and other «>n>Pl«nts, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nient^withinte** y'i ality - . Full directions for self-treat-
of perrons who b a n which has cured thousands
RENT PDT S^ a Im h T ?v P ? before read i n B: this book.
Bnic 1 A^ ress ’secretary,
street; Sydney. OT ’ VlCfcorf * Kli»betb-
EEQ
DEAF
fgh
Th* Hew Patent
SOUND DISCS
iCompletely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the game
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal,
xplanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. HAST, 145 Collin. St.. Melbourne
For Strenuous Life
it is necessary to have your system in good
working order—to have an energy born of
perfect health and strength each organ
kept in free action, and BEECHAfI’S PILLS
are foremost of the few things that will do it.
For Active Brains
your liver must be right, your stomach in a
healthy condition, and your kidneys properly
performing their peculiar functions. If you
would have a clear head and keen perception,
get a box of BEECHAM’S PILLS, use them
and see how much more alive you will be.
For Perfect Health
there is no greater promoter than these
famous pills. You will find it so all over the
world, and there are thousands of perfectly
sound and healthy people who owe their
healthiness to the use of
B66ClliUll*S
Pills.
6,000,000 BOXES SOLD ANNUALLY.
Pr r".± ml ?. h y Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Eng.
mm
Sold everywhere. Boxes 10|d., Is. lid., and 2s. 9d.
fg
v Absolutely CllfO
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
ii FURRED TONGUE.
I INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’B SECURITY In
3.
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pin. Small Dm*. Small Price.
liter TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter’s
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id.
Pott Free.
151 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY.
DR. MARTIN,
M.D., M. 8., 0.M., L.R.0.P., L.R.G.S., L.P.P.8.0., &c.
The old-established, Reliable Phy-
mdan and Surgeon may be consulted on
All Diseases of
Men and Women
FREE.
Age and Experience Important— Avoid Unskilful Pretenders—Both Sexes Consult
Confidently—No Experiments. If you are afflicted and Wish to Recover vour Lost
Health, Strength and Vitality SEND AT ONCE FOR
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN, & THEIR HOME CURE/
May be had from all Booksellers, Price 7e. fid., or 11
you apply to me now a copy will be POSTED FREE for
38. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and
193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Fcur-Oolored Plate.
The most interesting, up-to-date and reliable medical
T .. .. . „ work published. It is a true guide for all the diseases of
Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free to the public It
is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity, afflioted with long-standing chronic
nervous, exhausting 1 or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
FREE
ft'SO-poife specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate
gi\ ing a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Hook is like will be sent POST FREE. ’
CONSULT THE AUTHOR. A » Correspondence Confidential. CONSULT THE AUTHOR.


Asbestos . . .
Boiler Covering:
Has Proved its Economy Times without number.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3wt. casks.
75., Bs., 9s. cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lowt., 125., 145.,
16s. cwt.
It Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel.
Perdriau Rubber C 0.2
270 George St., Sydney.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers & Steam Pipes.
r
L
“ Is superior even to meat and 01
Inestimable value as a food.”
— Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
“ A diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL *
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid it eipecislly dungerou*,"
Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth. 300
MffM • niinA is firl
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SiMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
MAMMATTS
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
<shf
Mb b
WOLF
or
r • M AX
s-,
J. ft J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
At thm Showroom®-
PIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator*
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
It now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters m Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
it will stay on tho sheep’s back as long 1 as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from Itt
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
tDRMIIE*GO.. MUNIR
BLACK , BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases): —
PRICK IN MELBOURNE . - w 4kl- por
• «■» “&=/” n
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
Gallon.
BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) «.
*k/T
hf
INCERSOLL ROCK DRILLS.
Sergeant “Auxiliary Valve” Drill
“New Ingersoll” Drill
“Arc Valve” Tappet Drill
“Little Jap” Drill “Eclipse” Drill
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
80 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Thm Old ffo/Mfo English Rttmmdg.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLB.
Prepared by Poimodkbtbe k T rum ah, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for oyer a century for quick
efficacy, aa proved’by teetimoniale from all
parta of the World. Ia aold by all Chemiata
iu the Auatralian Colonies. r
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effeotually dastreya
all Parasites of Head er Body.
sou> in two auwe, 9d. k la. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon haring TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment xa occur.
Prepared by Poinodkstbb k 'rvitam.
71 Old Kent Road, London, and a >id by all
Chemiata in the Australian Colonics.
JOHN BRUT H,
Saddler,
371 Georg© Street,
S|-SrX33Nr3EBTK-.
gh
fg
RANGES
STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stows.
HEAD OFFICEBI
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORES AND WE2AK BYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES*
A CERTAIN REMEDY
ES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER RAILS.
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES"
CURED
A NOVEL PRESENT.
AN receipt of P. 0.0.
" forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
or M.O. for 5/- we wffl
address in Australia oh*
9ot. COLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with either
Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed the same
quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6. In 15ot.
Gt.F, Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illus
trated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully addressed
to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King-, Cole’s Book Broad*,
hf
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
la allowed on every cycle bought of na. lost
Money in full refunded without qoestiea
If not perfectly satisfactory. Highest J -
siaaow
isaxyg
£2.10 to £0
or Clincher A Won Tyres, laTsrted
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, ate.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee salt
delivery. . _
ghf
Secand-Hand Cyelam
all makes,
£1 to £2.10
iaB jrood as new,
Greet factory clearance
EARN A CYCLE
sale at Half factory priem.
taking orders from samw#
machine. ActlYe Mgtßjm
wanted In each"dlitrlo*- Large profits easily made. Write at «*•«•«
free catalogues and onr special, offer, using sufflcijffit postage
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, be., halfpriam,
MEAD OYOLE QO. Dept. ®*»
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AND CHICAGO.
WILFLEY v. CARD CONCENTRATOR.
The judgment in the recent law suit does not apply to the original Card Concentrator, but only to two experimental
Table Tops that were made for the purpose of trial during the absence of Mr. Guthridge from Australia, and before
the working of the Table was properly understood. We are, therefore, continuing the manufacture and sale of these
machines, and the mining industry will not be deprived of this valuable invention. According to the sworn evidence,
the “ Card ” has 50 per cent. “ greater capacity and makes higher concentrates and poorer tailings than the ‘ Wilfley.’
With the ‘ Card ' there is practically no loss of lead (mineral), as there is with the ‘ Wilfley.’ ”
The “Card ” Table may be seen on application, when evidence of its great superiority will be furnished.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd., Sole Agents, 17 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
