

D. H. BURKE’S “GALLEON” SCHNAPPS. “BEAVER” STOUT (Guinness’)
R. 6. WATKINS «SC CO.,
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AHD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ii
Grand Prix, Paris,
& Co.’s
SAWING & WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
Planing and Moulding Machines, Gone red Wood-workers, Deal and Flitch Frames ,
Log Frames, Band Mills, Circular Saw Mills, Vertical Boring Machines, &0., Ac.
For Illustrated Lists and
full particulars apply to - -
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 85 Pitt st., SYDNEY.
—"
(jadleys Orient Jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
sgifall
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowicl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
BOTTLED IN
SCOTLAND
T
WHISKY
sAF
HaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
Hew South Wales Branchs
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A g IBB> Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted, “a®
GUK 4m tQaltfvu) '(fyexjL ~($oIIom ‘ hjiooK^
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
1/3
4
i
2/6 daily
TREAT!
sdf
sfd
sfd
s
fO\
00
pmn^§
few
BREWERS, WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
and CORDIALS.
t
mm'
REGULAR pattern
df
SIMPLEST a.tnd
STRONGEST,
UNBREAKABLE.
FOR BOILER FEEDING,
MINING and CHEMICAL WORKS,
SHAFT SINKING and IRRIGATION.
**■ ■ -.'
BEStrjsa!
JE&W'
POWER PUMP.—Out Illustrates size 7x12
VERTICAL SINKING PUMPS
A SPECIALTY.
DIFFERENTIAL PLUNGERS for GRITTY WATER.
.STOCKS HELD.
SOLE AGENTS—
W. and J.
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST.,
/ !\ -
•: - :
» « \
**A
! Piungrer Sinking rcrnipj
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
■
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever issued in Australia.
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s” Futures, superbly produced.
&
A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS GIFT.
_——:—: il _ • ;
HELIDON SPAA-“ Stands pre-eminent as a Table Water.”
The Bulletin
Vol 26.—N0. 1317.]
[Thursday, May 11, 1905.
Registered at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post a 3 a Newspaper,


THE RATIONALIST PRESS SERIES.
NEW SUPPLY OUST OPENED.
Each Bcl. posted, or 16 post free for lOs.
1. Huxley, Lectures and Essays. 2. Clodd, Pioneers of Evolution. 3. Laing, Mod. Science and Mod. Thought.
4. Arnold, Literature and Dogma. 5. Haeckel, Riddle of the Universe. 6. Spencer, Education. 7. Allen, Evol. of
the Idea of God. 8. Laing, Human Origins. 9. Morison, The Service of Man. 10. Tyndall, Lectures and Essays.
11. Darwin, Origin of Species. 12. Emerson’s Addresses and Essays. 13. Mill, On Liberty. 14. Clodd, Story of
Creation. 35. Stephen, An Agnostic’s Apology, lti. Renan, Life of Jesus. 17. Laing, Modern Zoroastrian. 18. Intro,
to Philosophy of Herbert Spencer. 19. Mill, Three Essays on Religion. 20. Grey, Creed of Christendom. Also Extra
Series. 1. Eenesse, Jesus Christ. 2. Haeckel’s Cr.tics Answered. 3. Lewis, Science and Speculation. 4. Wilson,
Ne\V Light on Old Problems. 5. Gorham, Ethics of Great Religions. 6. Mangasarian New Catechism. 7. Christianity
and Rationalism on Trial. 8. Do We Believe.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
i
9 a
Registered.
S
FOR INFLUENZA,BRONCHITIS, I
ASTHMA,, ALL OF |
THE THROAT&LUNGS.&
AN IDEM.REMEDY.
Conta in no Coca ine
or otherpoioonoas drvj
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, //&.
T HE GREAT
ANTISEPTIC
RE MEDY..
LOS , SORE THROAT. LOSS OF V° lC ji
FOR COUCHS,CO
in Tins 1/5 or Post-Erce on receipt of- stamps i.-m the bole Manufacturer. G. HUDSON;
' i« n it SYDNEY DEPOT—S and 7 Queen's Place. Agencies in all the Australian Ste
3 * <% * * r r\ v r\v Afi.fexrT ''.v F f*v» A-rnich Street •
Qi<een3lz
THE RED PAGE.
MARSH-COOTS
[For a long time we have been looking for a
“ nature writer,” built generously on the Ameri-
can plan, and at last we think we have found one.
“Nature writers” do not seem to come to Sydney ;
maybe the air is not serious enough for them. A
“nature writer” is no longer born, like Richard
Jefferies ; se is made painfully of commonplaces
laboriously polished into “thoughts too deep for
tears.” These are supposed to be “ very improv-
ing.” The trouble with most “nature writers ”
is that Nature seems somehow to escape from the
writer : apparently the lady detests an: arritre
pais tie, and flees at sight of an anxious person
with a note-book. Nevertheless Nature herself
can be manufactured nowadays, and so it is we
read all these wonderful things about her. One*
more, please : —]
MARSH-COOTS.
ON the shores of the great Australian
lakes are marshes, composed in vary-
ing proportions of mud and water.
In these marshes live the marsh-
coots. I have passed many an enchant-
ing day in studying the habits of the marsh-
coot (ipecacuanha australis). The marsh-
coot is divided into two sexes—male and
female, both of which sing. The best time
to hear the marsh-coot sing is in the very
early morning, when it is busy searching for
worms in the marshes. I have not observed
that it is particular about the genus of the
worms; any old worm seqnns to do for it.
Its procedure is most peculiar. Uttering
its cheerful cry, it wades hither and thither
until it has found a worm. Then it swallows
the worm. To illustrate the intelligence of
marsh-coots I may say that I have repeatedly
placed artificial worms in their way, and
they never gave them a second glance.
Their power of detecting the natural article
from the imitation is unerring. In this
regard they Would serve as a lesson to many
human beings.
The marsh-coot is one of the most affec-
tionate birds I have ever studied—or, rather,
the female is. The male is somewhat gloomy.
I have repeatedly Seen the female approach
the male, presenting her bill with a little
cooing noise, and making evident efforts to
ingratiate herself with her lord and master.
The male almost invariably turned away, and
if the process were too often repeated he
would get angry and sing in a very harsh
key. The song of the marsh-coot is some-
thing like that of the common canary, but
different. It is beautiful to listen to it in
the earliest morning, when the last stars are
paling in the embrace of rosy-fingered
Aurora, and the great heart of Nature throbs
through the mud of the marshes. Unfor-
tunately that is the time when the mos-
quitoes are at their very worst.
The marsh-coot (female) invariably lays
nine eggs, brown in colour. This is one of
the remarkable things connected with the
marsh-coot that ordinary observers are apt
to overlook. It is true that you will
frequently find a marsh-coot’s nest con-
taining more or fewer than nine eggs,
but this is only 'because, the female has
forgotten to deposit the eggs in the nest, or
because tw@ females have deposited their
eggs in the same nest. This in itself is un-
usual, and leads one to the conclusion that
the marsh-coot is a very absent-minded kind
of bird.
In colour th e marsh-coot is brown, like the
eggs. It has. romantic black eyes, and long
black legs on which it walks through marshes.
But it must not be supposed that the marsh-
coot is an ordinary bird. Indeed, a marsh-
coot can teach us many lessons about the
wonders of the natural kingdom. Some-
times, as I watched a marsh-coot walking so
warily in search of worms, I used to wonder
if after all human life, with all its pangs
and sorrows, was worth living. Then sud-
denly from above the dim hills on the left
the glorious sun would flash up in a living
ball of ruby flame, and as I wended my way
home to breakfast I knew once more that in
“the good gray poet” Whittier’s immortal
words, slightly altered :
“ Gocl’s in His Heaven,
All’s right with the marsh-coot.”
[The next article in this series will deal with the
sand-coot. After that there are the swamp-coot
and the sea-boot to reckon with. Then we shall
tackle the mountain-coot, the plaiu-coot, and the
river-coot. If you know any more coots, kindly
write and tell us where to look for th£ir habits.
Now we have got a nature writer, that writer has
got to write.]
.. .
The new Academy attracts: it looks like
business, and it reads more like literary journalism. But
the criticism is too smooth and publisher-placating.
The type wants a thin lead through it.
“The Pacific, the centre of present-day inter-
national gravity.”— Saturday Review. . Call it the
Bellicose, with Australia as booty, and say how many
of our politicians are taking-, tithe of mint, and anise, and
cummin, and neglecting-the weightiest matters of Defence
and Armament.
The Magazine of Commerce, March (Is. net).
The general interest of this maga. is increasing. a
•reviewer of U.S. commerce declares: “ The only hope of
England is her colonies ; that is one of the chief morals to
be derived from a study of American papers.” And he
might have added that the cully hope of the epicn.es is in
themselves. As to typewriters : •• The cost of manufac-
ture of the leading American writing- machines, tor which
we pay 22 1, 95.... is not more than 4 1.” —The explanation
is that five of the principal companies, forming a trust,
have come to an agreement not to sell below tii:s price.
SAID FRANK M'COMAS
IN’ America I keep my full name of Francis.
There’s a great deal in a name. There’s
even a good deal in the aspect of a name.
Frank is familiar; Francis is dignified. It
pays a painter to appear dignified to his patrons.
Dignity raises prices; familiarity lowers them.
When the patron is permitted to presume, it is
the artist who pays for his presumption. That is
philosophy and business. Art’s art —1 hope
mine is; but art is also business —I know mine is.
You must live to paint; you must sell to live ; you
must advertise to sell. “Francis” is a better
advertisement than “Frank”—for me. No;
you can’t conceive a Philip May. But then he
was “Phil.” Temperamentally and charac-
teritically I’m Francis: Francis fits me now
that I’m-growing old, now I’m thirty. (You
can call it thirty for the present.)
When I left Australia six years ago I was still
Frank. America knocked the Frank out of me —
for sale purposes, anyway. I was born and
reared in Tasmania; came to Sydney with a
dream of painting ; had a few lessons—not many ;
a few paintings hung—not many. Then I made
my escape.
A mental, not a physical escape. Australia is
good enough for me, but it isn’t, good enough for
a painter. You see nothing, know nothing, are
too far away from the centres of art, and flounder
hopelessly among the traditions of twenty-five
years ago. It is pitiable 'to see the young talent
wasted here, just for want of knowledge, want of
chance to study the great work of great painters.
Don’t think I’m striking a superior attitude or
any of that bosh. I’m speaking of what I know.
When I escaped 1 was a blind Icitten too. I was
groping for light, trying to open my eyes ; but I
was a blind kitten. I went to Francisco and sat
down in front of big paintings there—there are
big paintings there—and studied them. Then I
wont out and struggled with Nature. Then I
came back to the masters and saw how they suc-
ceeded, -where I failed. Then to London and
Paris, and back again to California. So I learnt
to see and understand the good, the best.
Jt
I’m not talking of my own work, mind ; only
pointing out how one learns to appreciate good
and bad in the work of others. In Sydney it’s
nearly all bad : the men have no chance. What’s
tne use of buying, and hanging those things.in the
Gallery year after year? It’s no kindness to the
chaps that paint ’em : it : s only encouraging them
to go on in the wrong track.
And the sin and shame of wasting money as you
do ! There are a few good canvases in the Gallery
—the North, the Brangwyn, the Lavery, the
David Davies, and some others hold their place;
but the rest- three-fourths •of the lot—what
terrible examples of third-rate, fifth-rate, tenth-
rate painting ! Why, why, why on earth, don’t
the trustees—instead of peddling with nonentities
—spend their money to buy good things, the best
things, by the best men? One good Corot, one
Rousseau, one Diaz, would be worth years of
Struggle to your landscape painters.
There is no sense in following Arthur Streeton
if. you don’t see as Streeton did. He was sincere
in his way, and the others should be sincere in
their way. “Still Glides the Stream” is all
right, and Longstaffs “ Lady in Black” is fit to
•hang in any gallery in the world. But the imita-
tions bobbing in the wake of Streeton ! and Long-
staffs king and queen, so far behind himself ! —I
don’t know however he could do them.
When I’m at home at Monterey I paint trees
and skies, low-pitched landscapes that try I —they
do try*—to be sincere and truthful. There’s no
sense in slumming : pictures are either well drawn
or not, and I reckon a good man works till he gets
it. It’s hard work for some of us, hard work for
me. But I sketch and I paint, and America buys
all I paint. Prices from 20k to "AM. : one
lady has bought ten of my pictures for
well over lOOj/. Well, that’s not so bad—
for me. I don’t exhibit unless on my own:
it pays better to work with agents, and
uf> to now I’ve found a market for everything
I’ve done. Last year I held an exhibition, of
twenty-one pictures—sold ten in Chicago, five in
New York; one in Boston; and got heaps of
critical praise. On the other hand, some of the
critic say the work’s a fad —perhaps it is—yon.
must n’t ask me ! All I know is I try to put my *
best in every time I paint, and my best has been
every year growing better.
I try for honest drawing and harmonious
colour, and I try to make the picture give the
impression of charm Nature gives to me. Den-
man Ross, professor of Art at Harvard Univer-
sity, told me I was painting in too low a key:
"Go to Spain,” he said, “and paint the white
houses.” Well, I went there—last year—but I
did n’t get the white houses. Not in the way I
wanted to. But the struggle was a colourist’s
tonic.
I j ust came over to see my family ; going back
now. America’s been very good to me; the
people couldn’t be kinder. Australia’s just as
good, but not for a painter who wants to live
by his painting. If you burn half the pictures in
N.S.W. National Gallery, hang half the trustees
in front of the building, and make the other half
buy good pictures instead of sheer'downright rub-
bish, things may change. I hope they will.
— , — ; ———
One admires the persistency of G. Stronaeh,
the most-heard British advocate of Bacon’s Shake-
spear. In March Fortnightly he quotes SheileyV
affirmation that “Lord Bacon was a poet” in
virtue of the sweet and majestic rhythm of his
prose. And he cites examples from the essays
and elsewhere :
Truth may come, perliaps,
To a pearl's value that shows best by day,
But rise it ivill not to a diamond’s price
That showeth always best in varied lights.
Bacon, in fact, was so much of a poet that.in his
prose History of Henry VII he fell, despite him-
self, into poetic rhythms; and “there arc much
worse lines in the historical plays of Shakespear,”
says Stronaeh affably. K.g.:
Therefore during the Partiainsnt he published
His royal proclamation, offering pardon
And grace of restitution to all such
As had taken arms or been participant
Of any attempts against him.
Almost this persuadeth us.
THE VISION OF LOVE
DISCUSSING the part of vision in sex-
selection ( Ps.ucholor)!/ of Sex, vol. 4;
Philadelphia, F. A. Davis Co., 10. s. (id.).
Havelock Ellis commences by comparing
ideals of beauty. They differ widely, and the des-
cription is one-sexed even for Australia, where W.
Dunlop reports the points of an aboriginal goddess
as they appeared to an alwriginal:
1. She had long glossy hair hanging round her face and
down her shoulders, which were plump.
2. Her face was adorned with red olay and her person
wrapped in a fine large opossum rug.
3. she well knew how to show to advantage her
queenlike figure as she walked, with her polished yam-
stick held in one of her small hands, and her little feet
appearing below the edge of the rug.
Thus beauty for King Billy consists in long hair,
small hands and feet, a rouged face, and a good
figure well dressed. The girl must know how to
put her clothes on. Compare the Singalese ideal:
1. Hair spreading like a peacock’s tail, and falling to
the knees, terminating in graceful curls.
2. Eyebrows like a rainbow ; eyes like a blue sapphire ;
nose like a hawk’s bill ; lips like red coral; teeth like
jasmine-buds. *
3. Neck large, round ; chest capacious ; limbs tapering ;
skin smooth—without projecting bones or sinews.
The Hindu lotus-woman is described in still
greater detail; and her mental and moral qualities
receive attention:
She eats little, sleeps lightly, and being as respectful
and religious as' she is clever and courteous, she is ever
anxious to worship the gods and to enjoy the conversation
of Brahmins [i.e., literary people].
The Persians,are found eonsidering the down on
a lady’s lip as a great beauty. They classify it as
greenish or bluish, and compare it to herbage. On
the other hand, a French trouvhre of the 13tli
century commends the nape of his mistress’ neck
for that it is strong, white,,and without any wan-
dering hairbage. Joan of Aragon, the greatest
beauty of her time (16th century), is described by
the philosophic Niphus as “-neither fat nor bony,
but succulent”—which is the just word. Her eye-
brows were “not too bushy,” and her eyelashes
“ not too long ” ; her lips were “ rather thick," and
the feet, “of medium length, terminated in
beautifully arranged toes.” On the whole,
Niphus seems to nave observed the lady pretty
closely.
Sir R. Burton thinks that a beautiful woman is
esteemed all the world over.—An intelligent
native of Lukunor told the traveller Merton that
“Tattooing has the same object as your clothes—
to please the women.”—The scientific Stratz
says :
A man’s walk has a more pushing and active character,
a woman’s a more rolling and passive character : while a
man seems to seek to catch his fleeing equilibrium, a
woman seems to seek to preserve the equilibrium She has
reached. ... A woman’s walk is beautiful when it shows
the definitely feminine and rolling character, with the
greatest predominance of the movement of extension
over that of flexion.
It is said in The. Arabian Nights tliAt “Allah has
specially created an angel in heaven who has no
other occupation than to sing the praises of the
Creator for giving a beard to men and long hair to
women,” and this,’angel must note with alarm
Ellis’s remark that civilisation shows a well-
marked tendency to the abolition of such sexual
differences.
Jt
Taking the world over, blondes are preferred
to brunettes. Probably it was for a blonde that
faithless Phaorr left the swarthy littl’e Sappho.
But eyes! All colours have been sung and
celebrated, from vair mixed to vert green. But
Ronsard yearned for black eyes :
Noir je veux I'oeil et brun le te.int ,
Bien que Voeil verd Unde la France adore.
In Britain, other equal, “the most blonde
is the most beautiful ,r ; but often other things are
not equal, and famous English beauties have
not been extremely fair. The lover’s Affinity is
determined by a host of trifles, in which com-
plexion counts but not decisively. The intelligent
Stratz remarks that “There are no two, women
who in exactly the same way Strike back a
rebellious lock from their brovys. no two who hold
the hand in greeting in exactly the same way, no
’ two who gather up their skirts as they walk with
exactly the same movement.” “Among the mul-
titude of minute differences,”-comments the intel-
ligent Ellis—“ which yet can be seen and felt—
the beholder is variously attracted or repelled
according to his own individual idiosyncrasy,»and
the operations of sexual selection are effected
accordingly.”
Ellis thinks that the frequent observation that
women admire strength rather than beauty, to be
properly understood, involves a translation of
vision into terms of touch. “ How strong he
looks!” really means “How hard he could
squeeze!”
Women are very sensitive to. the. quality of a man’s
touch, and appear to seek and enjoy contact and pressure,
to a greater extent than do men, although in early
adolescence this impulse seems to be marked in both
sexes. “ There is something strangely winning to most
women,” remarks George .Eliot in The Mill on. the Floss,
“in that offer of the. firm arm; the help is not wanted
physically at that moment, but the sense of help—the
presence of strength that is outside them and yet theirs
meets a continual want of the imagination.”
Women -are often very critical concerning a man’s
touch and his method of shaking hands. Stanley Hall,
in Adolescence, quotes a gifted lady as remarking: “I
used to say that, however much I liked a man, I could
never marry him if I did not like the touch of his hand,
and I feel so yet.”
Do persons unlike attract each other to mar-
riage ? The evidence goes the other way : it is
the like, the kindred in appearance and character
who are mutually charmed. Instead of married
people growing afike after marriage, it seems they
are alike before marriage and are attracted because
thev are alike. Probably “ both men and women
seek tallness in the person to whom they are”
attracted. There is some evidence that light-
eyed (or fair) men tend to marry light-eyed
women more often than dark-eyed ; while
dark-eyed men tend to marry dark-eyed womei
rather than %ht-eyed. It seems that English
husbands are fairer than men in general—possibly
because “fair people... are more energetic than
dark people.” It does not appear that English
wives are darker than women in general: though
in England also (as Schopenhauer stated, and as
A. de Candolle concluded regarding Switzerland,
North Germany, and Belgium) brown-eyed women
seem to be found more attractive than other*.
On a point discussed by Mrs. Francis Anderson,
of Sydney, in her recent plea for co-education
of the sexes, Ellis quotes Westermarck’s magis-
terial History of Marriage to the effect that there
exists an innate sexual aversion between persons
living very closely together from early youth.
He adds —
Courtship is the process by which powerful sensory
stimuli proceeding from a person of the opposite sex
gradually produce the physiological state of tumescence,
with its psychic concomitant of love and desire, more oi
less necessary for mating to be effected. But between
those who have been brought up together from childhood
all the sensory stimuli of vision, hearing, and touch have
been dulled by use, trained to the calm level' of affection,
and deprived of their potency... Brothers and sisters in
relation to each other have already reached that state to
which old married couples by the exhaustion of youthful
passion and the slow usage of daily life gradually approxi-
mate.
The principle is clear ; and it follows that, if the
brotlier-and-sister attitude can be maintained, co-
education is likely to carry boys and girls over the
troubles of a critical age. As A. Mosso points
out, such liberty breeds the sense of responsibility.
The separation of the sexes till marriage should
either be made as complete as in France, for ex-
ample, or should not be attempted at all : there is
scarcely a practicable road between all freedom
and none. Sex-allurements thrive on a system of
separate education combined with frequent oppor-
tunities for social contact.
Jt
Here one may close this review of a most in-
teresting and valuable collection of observations.
lii the presentation we still miss the vigour of
Ellis’s earlier work : the precise epithet, the clear
phrase, disengage themselves less often than
formerly. Occasionally sentences must be re-read
to grasp the meaning. For instance, the last
sentence in the book runs :
In the .meanwhile we are, at all events, in a position to
assert, even with the evidence before us, that now that
the real meaning of sexual selection is becoming' clear, its
efficacy in human evolution can no longer be questioned.
The'expression 'would be stronger and more lucid
if written thus :
Meanwhile we can assert from the evidence before us
that, now the real meaning of sexual selection is becoming
clear, its efficacy in human evolution cannot longer oe
questioned. .
This slackness of style seems to be accompanied
by some reduction of Ellis’s old power of gripping
his facts and pressing his conclusions, A para-
graph on co-education in the United btates, for
example, and its social results, seems certainly to
be demanded in his penultimate chapter. But
these considerations detract nothing from ones
admiration of his almost heroic labour, in a
field where he is one of the first and most trust-
worthy of pioneers. \‘
*. >
Delitzsch wonders anew how the desire for fame
gnawed', old Assyria. Bucks upon bricks are covered
with the' titles and deeds of the king's. Sufficient have
now been found to fix with certainty all the details'of
tv various dynasties.- Some of the kings were humourous.
One, w!i" had filled up. a canal with sand, recommends
(.)D a brick) any successor who wishes again to see the
canal to dig out the sand.
We hope that, before his series closes, the
writer of the admirable legal articles in Syd. Telegraph
titled “The Mirror of Justice” will quote l>r. Johnsons
translation of “Nemo repente fuit turpissimus” I*
takes seven years to make an attorney.”
Hartfs Delusions (Brisb., E. A. Howard; 2s. J
is title of a pamphlet in which the author pleads that old
men and boys be employed to shoo birds from Cultivated
crops in order that the birds may be compelled to feed on
insects which may carry disease germs to others beside*
the author who was born at a place called Parrot s Dap at
that time abounding with bird-life and had an, optical
illusion in the form of a bird being deprived of h.s place
as clerk in the Postal dept, in 84 pages.
Item for local “artists.” R. C. Woodville,
illustrator of the war-horse with the fierce Chinese-wlute
eyeball, has just made a statement of his affairs in bank-
ruptcy--liabilities, 12,5212. ; assets, 1262. “Go thou an#
do likewise.” . ' •. ,
Writes “ Beaumont S.”—
Longstaff, Maokennal, Burgess, Will Ashton, and Shep-
pard are in British Academy this year. The list is not as
loiv as last vear’s, when Australia was except.onally well
represented.' The youngest of the exhibitors is Mill
Ashton, of Adelaide, who has two pictures accepted.
Longstaff .was excluded last year. _ >
Sending-in day for the Academy is March 21. Then
follow three weeks of waiting when painters refused
receive a “ Rejected Notice,” with the usual regrets and
request to remove work. Another week passes, and the
remaining painters receive either a varnishing ticket, or a
notice that “ The President and Council regret that they
are unable to find room for No. —, which has been selected
by them for exhibition, and, owing to want of space, they
request that you remove it as soon as possible. ('»ith
the New Paris Salon, “ accepted ” means hung.)
The following Monday,is Varnishing Day. The Academy
is open from 9 till 5, and the painters make the best of it
as an annual re-union. .
[Outsiders are only permitted to send in three pictures.
The R.A.’s and A.R.A.’s are hung along “ the line [of
sight], and the remaining pictures are put In where they
fit. An exhibitor dreads being “skied.” Napier Hem-
mino’, now A.R. A., upon entering the Academy on nofil
ven” distant Varnishing- Day,,' found his picture up
near the clouds. Getting a lengthy ladder, he climbed
up to the picture, and commenced working furiously.
He changed it ■ utterly—in fact, ruined it—and writing
SKETCH boldly across it, descended the ladder. The
Council must have talked the, matter over seriously, tor
the following year Hemming was made A.R.A.
One is not supposed to send a picture twice to tne
Academy, but often an accepted, but unhung, picture of
one i year has been known to be accepted and hung
the jiext.l , . . ..
During the next week the Academy is open for the
Press, and for Private View. The Academy Dinner takes
pi ice on the Friday before opening day, and this is
attended by the Academicians and Associates, each bung-
in-- one friend. Then comes the public, to view, criticise,
arid perchance to buy ; and by arid by the doors aie
closed again, and the young artist, exhibited for the fust
time, takes his nieture home, and tells himself that Fame,
after all, is not composed of one Academy exhibit.
A.G.S.


sfd
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
-*s, SYDNEY.
fds
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. s^SYDNEY.
śf
FOOTBALLS.
All Balls fitted with Best Quality
(IMPORTED) Red Rubber Bladders.
033, ASSOCIATIOIt.
V ROYAL
OoT B v.
"V s
H
i*V',
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Royal ” Match Footballs, 7/6.
NICHOLSON’S “Royal” Hand Sewn Match, 9/6
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Special Royal" Footballs, 11/6.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s Extra Special Stpd “A.N.A.,” 14/6
GILBERT’S Best Match Footballs, 12/6.
BRYAN’S “Grasshopper” Match Footballs, 13/6,
“DIADEM” Buttonless Match, Association only, 13/6.
SYKE’S “ Rival,” Association Match only, 10/-.
SYKE’S “ Albion,” Association Match only, 11/6.
SYKE'S “League Defiance,” Association Match only, 15/-.
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY. s. d.
olid Leather, No. 1 each 2 3
„2 2 9
’3„ 3 6
,„4 „ 4 3
„ „ Match II „ 5 0
ASSOCIATION. s. d-
Solid Leather, No. 1 .. .. .. .. each 2 6
» .. .. 2 3 3
3 ,39
„ „ .. 4 „ 4 6
„ „ Match 111 ~ 5 0
Special Youths’ Match Ball, Best Quality.. ~ 14 0
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra Special Value.
No. 1, Is. 9d. each. No. 2,2 s. 3d. each. No. 3,2 s. 9d. each. No. 4,3 s. 3d. each.
FOOTBALL BLADDERS (Imported). Red Rubber —Rugby or Association.
No. 1
s. d.
each 1 0
~ 14
„ 1 7
„ 110
No. 5
~ 6, Association only
~ 5, Rugby only, Special Extra Stout
Rubber
s. d.
each 2 3
2/9, 3 3
each 3 3
We can supply Colonial Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.—Shin Guards.
s. d.
Stout Twill, with tapes pair 1 0
Stout Twill, straps and buckles 13
Basil, leather straps and buckles .. .. <, 16
Brown Basil, extra large continuous leather
straps 2 0
Gold Cape, straps and buckles 2 9
s. d.
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather
straps pair 3 0
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, con-
tinuous straps, with or without ankle
pads 4 0
Same as above, larger size 5 0
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOT, blocked toe-cap, very light, a splendid
boot for Rugby, 10s 6d pair.
Extra Quality English-made BOOK SKIN BOOT (white), blocked toe and ankle
pads, guard over instep, very special quality, 14s 6d pair.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOQTS, blocked toe-caps, with and without
ankle pads, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d pair.
BRASS IN FLA TORS —Is 3d, Is lOd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 6s 6d each.
UMPIRES' WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS, 6d each. LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
Stout Web Belts, Double Straps and Pocket, Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
Solitl Blocked Leather Ankle Guards, 2/6 set of 4
EAR CAPS— White Duck (open top), 3s each ; Buff Chamois
(netted crown), 3s 9d ea. ; Gold Cape (netted crown), 5s ea.
JERSEYS —Men's Best Quality Navy, Royal Blue, Maroon or
Sky in single colors. Royal and Gold, Sky and Maroon,
Maroon and Gold, Black and Cardinal, Light and Dark
Blue, Black and White, Royal and White, Red and White,
Navy and White, Cardinal and Royal, Black and Royal,
Green and Red, Black and Gold, Green and Gold, in 2-inch
bars, 48/- dozen ; 4/3 each.
sfd
MANbICAO
5/-
H
M
STANbARb
7/3
Ascot
2 6
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size ..6sC’d, 7s (id
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap . .. T2s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 253
“ E.G.M.” .. .. 303
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz .
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s Gd
Slazenger’s eov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg - . .. 11s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
sfd
BOXING GLOVES.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; i
60z., 12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois,
Champion shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
Illustrated Sports, Fishing Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
WxL
25
M
14
5 10
The Great
Monte
Carlo
Game.
Perfection of
Mechanical
ingenuity.
Finest Quality
Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert).
PRICE—
10/6
Post
Free.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment
due in about six
weeks.
AW \ \
L
PUNCHING BALLS.
Swinging Ball, complete, with best
quality Red Rubber Bladder —
7s 6d, 11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s, 21s,
255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete—lss 6d, 16s 6d,
18s 6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fixing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rubber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels—
Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each i
SPECIAL REDUCTION
To advertise this Favorite
and up-to-date Rifle, the
Manufacturers have de-
cided to REDUCE the
Selling- Price
FOR ONE
MONTH
ONLY i.
Sheu/mg Oifle Apart
'THE MAINE"
Pifle
The Celebrated “ Maine ” Rifle,
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights
to 300yds., Bolt Action, 18in.
Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut .
Stock. Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges. Weight, 2Jlb.
PRICE 12/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
CONICAL BALI
AMMUKTIXIOKT.
Gun Cartridges.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
~ 22 Short
~ 22 Long
~ 22 Long Rifle
22 Extra Long..
$lOO
Is Od
Is Od
Is 3d
Is 6d
2s Od
i 9d 100
,1s ~
$lOOO
9s 6d
10s Od
12s Od
13s Od
18s Od
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D B B L Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or ffteel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
t oft- Phokp Ret)Ounding‘ Locks, Snap .boie-ena,
chambered' for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
sfd
“The Reliable,”
iß© 12s ©d
e c , (t the RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. HAMIIVIERLESS GUN, 12-
HOLLIS 8c SONS amascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels, both choke, side
gauge, top ever, g extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with
lock action, a " a^ e ° at^ f chambered for 2fin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR
ALL n SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States ..
£l2 12s
sfd
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight f R
sJlb
sfd
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12
lever, twist barrels, extension rib,
left choke, patent D. & E. fore-end
grip, walnut stock, weight about 71
or 16 gauge, top
rebounding locks,
»f to ! 40s
&
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifle
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 31b. -J gg
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V s. d.
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb. 18 6
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 3Jlb 166
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.'TSS®
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


D R. M ARTI HNJ,
. L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.F PSG
GRIERSON It RSAR AND MEDALLIST, UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH • F
PHYAT. ArPliinAT. Snr!TPTV /W* l.' IUVDTTDnn . r »mr, A . ’
M. ID.,
ROYAL MEITfOAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH V'IATE* ASSISTANt"dEMONSTRATOR M ?N PRACTICAL
OF°Fnmßrißr I H E VTf^ Y FTr' '> ,KMKER 0F THE GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE UNIVERSITY
FOITR OF AHSTR sf L SUPERINTENDENT AND VISITING SURGEON TO
FOUR OF AUSTRALASIA’S LEADING HOSPITALS.
„ to S these widely-recognised qualifications, combined with unswerving: faithfulness to his patients during his
extended pi actice, he has attained a well-deserved pre-eminence in their treatment. All those suffering from any
rn“lT^,1 h r f f OnSU^ D f r - M t R l IN ’ aEva .' s feeling certain that by so doing they KSH;
hennuQe , 1 deaf ear to them, be their complaint what it may. Many, on the other hand, think that
because their muscular system is strongly developed, they do not require attention. This is a fallacy for
apparently trivial symptoms often lead to the most disastrous results ’ ’
r»A.KTGER.OXT3
AIFTOmS.
Hacking Cough, Desire for Solitude, Act
for Stimulants, Eruptions on the P
ralgia, Pains in the Head, Oozing
position, Shortness of Breath, _. r __
MARTIN’S instructive work on DISEASES OF MEN'aND WOMEN.' This work will be forwarded FREE to am
part of the worid on receipt of stamps to cover postage. Many patients who have been treated bv unprincipled
uneducated quacks, feel dubious about writing even to a Physician and Surgeon so widely known and universal!'
it I S \lndl n AustraW Ulte Al. l^ i:E ' ? r ’> rU ?’ s Hospital’ is'
ids Kina in Australasia. All communications should be addressed to 1
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Aertex
Cellular
Underwear,
Shirts,
Pyjamas, &c.
And
Ladies'
Underwear
of every description.
Samples, Pamphlets and Price
Lists, post free, from
m
K*t**
SlMM m^m
wt m
Ns^ggsMiSSi
jt«»» »r*;*-3s
g^sagoiEgy
; ■ ::
<a»^r
‘ » J: V
siss^ra®
JK-QeKS***:**
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.
SOLE AGENTS,
75 King-street, Sydney
i
3
c^/VTIONU^
. -_v ■
i| |f U P .
RUBBER
HEELS
AniHimwmz
ROYALTY.
Wifi do more to giva you a feeling o c youth and brightness than all the drugs in
the pharmacopoeia. The hard street is made as soft and pleasant to walk on as a grass
lawn. Saves ten times their cost in the boot bill.
Render worn down heels impossible, relieve spinal concussion thus saving tha nerves
and reducing fatigue. Sold by every Up-to-date boot and shoe dealer and gene al storekeeper.
CAUTION—See tho name “ WOOD-MILKE " on ovsry Pad.
Sole Agents for AUSTRALASIA, D. & W. MURRAY, Ltd.
Adelaide. Kalgoorlle. Launceston. Townsville. Perth. Melbourne. Brisbane. Broken HilL
Sole Manufacturers of the Wood-Milnc Heels -RE YOLYING HEEL Co., Preston, ENGLAND.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT (
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EVt LASHES*
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
(NIELVEIR FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for tho Little Book- '
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
BILIOUSNESS,
The effect of Eno’s * Fruit Sait’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature's Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked ENO’S ’ FRUIT SALT/ Without It ytu hart a
WOR THLSSS IMITA TION.
Pr*par#aoalyby J.O.UNO, Ltd.,’FRUIT SALT’ WORKS,LONDON,BNGL,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <Sc., everywhere.
THE “MELBA” ACCORDEON.
sfd
possess—TON e!' 3 “ m ° St inlportant <l ualit 3' an instrument can
fS'Si&p
imperfectly understood by the ordinary maker of Accwdeons 18
metl f 3> e teS^ ld confers fltted^h
»4UfirfitSsfe
ALLANS, 278, 278 Co! I ins-street, Melbourne.
Health! The Most Vital Interest.
LEARN FROM OTHERS’ EXPERIENCE.
The Caie of
Mr. E. W. DAVIS.
(By a Sydney iieporler.)
ft is safe to say that the people
tvho have the most vital interest in
the following particulars are those who
hnd themselves in a similar position
to that occupied some seven years ago
by Mr. ltdward Walter Davis, painter,
ol Henwick-street, Marrickville, who
addressed these remarks to an inter-
viewer
“It was whilst i was living at
Leichhardt that 1 was so ill with
painters’ colic, and also rheumatism,
and 1 can givo you my word that for
several months it was a doubtful mat-
ter how things would go with me.
Both those complaints at once would
be enough to lull most men, and it
is no exaggeration to say that they
nearly caused my death. Aly digestive
organs were also in a terribly bad
way, so that, you see, I was suffering
from a serious complication ol ail-
ments.''
“Did you seek modical advice, Mr.
Davis ?’
“Oh, yes ; 1 saw a doctor, and for
some time remained under his treat-
ment. which, unfortunately, proved to
be utterly useless. 1 took enough
medicines to do me good in those
days if they had been of the right
kind, but evidently they were not,
and the agony I was continually suf-
fering was simply intolerable. The
rheumatic pains in my legs had quite
a crippling cl feet upon’me, for 1 had to
refrain from moving about as much as
possible because of any exertion ag-
gravating my afflictions. .Nearly all
my joints were as stiff and sore as
could be, so you can imagine how dif-
ficult it was for me to cio anything ;
but so far as doing anything was
concerned I hadn’t the inclination, for
1 felt as if the whole world had closed
its doors against me. In my melan-
choly frame of mind I could see no-
thing excepting in the gloomiest of
colours, and ail there seemed in this
life was to struggle hopelessly along
against over win luting adversities. Had
1 been told that in a short while 1
was going to die I’m sure it would
have been good news, for I was really
anxious to leave all my unhappiness
behind me.”
“It seems as if you had come to the
conclusion that you were not goino-
to get better
“Indeed, I could think nothing else,
because 1 could not get even a little
relief. Mv agonies had me worked up
to such a pitch of exasperation that
if anybody came and spoke to me 1
could sc nicely bo civil to ’them. And
what featful nights 1 put in week af-
ter week ! .frequently no sleep from
iho time I went to bed till 1 got up
again next day, and I’d like to know
who could have got to sleep if they
had fell, as I did, with the sensation
In my stomach as if everything was
being drawn up into a knot and then
screwed round and round. Combined
with these afflictions 1 had pains un-
der my heart, which caused me more
anxiety than enough, for what chance
had 1 of ejecting a recovery if 1 had
heart disease as well, and the way
palpitation occurred made me think
that organ was diseased. This was
not all, though, as my chest had
heavy pains in it which affected my
breathing, and not a day passed but
what I was nearly distracted with a
headache. If I took a small quantity
of food—and my appetite was too
poor to cat much—it simply turned
sour in the stomach and gave rise
to fits of belching, and a feeling as
if 1 wanted to be sick would come on.
Oh, there was no child’s play about
my illness, and I often say what a
lucky man 1 was ever to get rid of
it.”
“That is what I would like to hear
about. Do you mind telling me?”
“-Not at all. i am only too glad,
for it was such a wonderful affair, as
most of the neighbours round where I
lived could tell you. They knew how
i suffered, and when they saw that i
was. being pulled round they were '. try
curious to know what was the cause
of it, and 1 told them Clements Tonic
was the medicine that was saving my
life, which was the truth. besides
what I’ve already stated, I used to
get feelings of giddiness very often,
and my tongue was never clean, but
covered with slime, and in my mouth
the taste was like bile ; but when 1
had taken a couple of bottles or so of
Clements Tonic J was not a bit like
that, and the old feelings of sickness
alter eating were gone. That was a
good deal to be grateful for, but no-
thing compared to what followed, i
used to dream a lot whenever 1 ob-
tained some sleep, and would wako
up in terror as if 1 had been dream-
ing of murder or something equally
bad, but Clements Tonic had such a
calming effect upon me that when I
slept 1 did so soundly, and felt as
fresh as paint when i woke up. My
nerves might have had a lot to do
with those restless nights, for before
using Clements Tonic they used to
twitch dreadfully ; afterwards they
were firm and steady, and the little
involuntary pimps 1 used to give when
lying down were no longer in evi-
dence. 1 was not the same man at
all when 1 had been taking Clements
Tonic a few weeks. The acute rheu-
matic pains had been gradually be-
coming less and less painful, and in
good time they died out altogether.
Such a thingr might seem impossible,
but, on my honour, it is true, and
when 1 speak of the colic pains I can
say exactly the same thing—they were
done away with by Clements' Tonic
once and for all. Many of my work-
mates have reaped the benefit of my
experience, for when I have told them
what cured me they got Clements
Tonic lor themselves, and they have
always spoken of the results in satis-
factory terms.”
‘‘And how did your digestive organs
fare ?”
‘‘Couldn’t possibly have been made
more healthy than Clements Tonic
made them, which means' all the dif-
ference between a life of joy and a
life of sorrow. It meant that my eyes
were no longer heavy and dull as
they had been, and it meant that 1
could always eat heartily without fear
of being ill afterwards,' for Clements'
Tonic made my internal organs do'
their work more perfectly than ever-
That I had got very thin could only
be expected,, but under the treatment
of Clements Tonic I soon put on mare
flesh than I had before my illness, and
the additional strength 1 acquired was
amazing. My wife was also very ill
once, and Clements Tonic did her a
wonderful amount of good, which
shows that it can be usod equally well
by either sex, to whom 1 untailingly
recommend its use when circumstanes'
require.”
“And can we make use of this con-.
versation ?”
“Undoubtedly. You are welcome to
publish every sentence in any way you
prefer.'-
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
T. EDWARD WALTER DAVTS. of Reuwick-
street., Marrickville. in the State of New
South Wales. Commonwealth of Australia, do-
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing’ of five folios and consecutively numbered 1
from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and iaithiul account of my ill-
ness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also-
contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and I-make
;,his solemn declaration conscientiously believ-'
lg the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900. ;
Subscribed and declared at Sydney this
kh day of November, one thousand nine
hundred and lour, before me,
J. 11. BRANSGROVE, J.P.
POST CARO
ObIIhSLANO
POST CARD,
Stif.
TO INTRODUCE OUR NEW .
PICTORIAL POST CARDS, best Id. Post Card in Australia- —“
As a husre advertisement we will forward to anyone sending theil*
name and address, 120 of our best Id. post cards free. Anyone may'
send. We want no money. We merely ask you to sell these post card*
amongst your friends in packets of six at 6d per packet. After selling /
the cards (which will not take long-) you return the 10s. and we send A
you any present you may choose from a list we send. By continuing' l
the sale of these cards you may earn a Solid Sterling: Silver Watch ]
(Lady’s or Gent’s}. We take all risks. Cards returnable if not sold, /
Send at once to THE PICTORIAL POST CARD CO., ‘/j
BFC Falmouth Chambers,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
HARDY’S
700 Prizes.
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.


: %
When the
thermome*
ter is low
We get careless and dress as if
it were summer. Then come
chills, colds, coughs. Keep
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
on hand. A dose or two at
the beginning will stop the
chills, break up the cold, and
prevent serious trouble. Look
out for cheap imitations.
In large and small bottles.
Avoid constipation. Hasten a cure by the
use of Ayer’s Hills.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Purveyors
by Royal Warrant
sfd
To His Majesty
The King.
GUARANTEED PURE.
“MOIR’S”
WORCESTER
SAUCE
Quality & Flavor Unsurpassed.
“ MOIR’S ”
GENUINE
“SCOTCH* OATMEAL
It is the strongest Meal obtain-
able, Packed in hermetically
sealed tins, and is very fattening
and nourishing.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 5 MACQUARIE PLACE. [1
MARTIN’S
PILLS
A Safe Medicine for Ladies.
The reason is t ey are purely a vegetable
composition, and expressly suited to the con-
stitution and requirements of women. This
explains the great success and golden opinions
which follow the'r use. Thousands say they
save all trouble, effectually remove all impuri-
ties of the blood, beautify t e complexion, no
headache, no pain, no flushing, no giddiness,
no anxiety. They make work a p’easure, and
existence a joy. Superior to any other known
remedy, Price 51-■ Sold everywhere. Sole
proprietor, MARTIN, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Sou .Hampton, England.
PLEASURE & PROFIT.
Cyphers Incubators.
'T'HESE world-renowned INCUBATORS are worked on
1 a new principle. The Regulator is simply perfect,
and cannot get out of order. Being worked on the Hot
Air principle, they have no tanks to leak. They are self-
ventilated, and are fully guaranteed to bring out lively
and healthy chicks and ducklings. Send for circular.
J. & A. BOYES, AGEMTS,
241-243 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
THE GUINEA KING^
(§ ‘ . :
- i
I
Hand
Camera
To carry 12
J-Plates
with Rapid
Rectilinear
Lens.
Finest In-
stantaneous
Shutter
focussing up
to 4ft. Post
free to any
part of Aus-
tralia, 22/6.
«/. H. SQUIRE & CO.,
Kodak Depot, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
sf
“Fcr
30 Years
I have used Bonnington’s
Irish Moss for Coughs
and Colds, and any irrita-
tion of the bronchial tubes.
It always jfives relief.”
That is a plain, straightforward statement.
We could supply hundreds such. Cough
remedies have come and gone, but
Bonnington’s
Irish Moss
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of sales will not sell a remedy if it is not
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BONNINGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sake
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care-
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
“ BONNINGTON’S.”
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
“BIG BLOCK” CLOTHING.
Mem.: Business Men.
To obtain the benefit of Style and Comfort
at a minimum outlay, you should wear . .
These Suits are just the thing for business wear, and made specially to your measurements from Fox’s
Serge, Indigo Dye, and All Wool Fancy Tweeds.
The Price is—
40s. PER SUIT
To Measure,
Post Free,
and when you wear one of these Suits these features will be noticeable : The coat will hang well round the
shoulders, fit perfectly across back, feel comfortable over the arms, and set trim around the collar ; the vest
will fit properly and button snugly, as a good-fitting vest should ; the trousers will set right and hang grace-
fully—they will be of proper length and size.
TROUSERS TO MEASURE in New Worsteds, Tweeds, and Indigo Serges at 12/6 post free.
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS to measure, in fawn and brown beaver cloth, velvet collar, at 32/6, post free.
ABCOT OVERCOAT (full length ron neck to feet), in rainproof covert coating and rainproof tweeds, to
measure, 45/-, post free.
If you cannot call, send for patterns and self-measurement form and they will be sent you
post free on receipt of request.
TRY WHERE YOU WILL, YOU CAN’T BEAT THE BIG BLOCK CLOTHING.
Finney, Isles & Co., Limited, The Big Block, BRISBANE.
WINCHBSnU
Model 1904 .22 Caliber Rifle
aia
A BIG GUN
FOR A LITTLE MONEY
This new Winchester Single Shot Rifle, designed to handle
.22 Long and .22 Short rimfire cartridges, is the biggest value
in a gun ever offered. It is a take-down fitted with a heavy
21-inch round barrel and Schuetzen stock, and has the cele-
brated Winchester bolt action, which has been so widely imi-
tated. Its low price, simple and serviceable features recom-
mend it to all lovers of shooting. Ask your dealer about it.
s
fs
VISITORS TO SYPNEy.
the
Empire Hotel,
PITT & HUNTER STS.
THIS HOTEL is situated in the highest
and best position of Sydney, close to the
Botanical Gardens, Government House,
Circular Quay (the landing-place of all large
Ocean Mail Steamers), near principal Clubs,
Theatres, and within two minutes’ walk of
i G.P.O. It is most elegantly furnished
' throughout; Sanitary Arrangements are of
the very latest. Electrically lighted through-
out, and elevators to every floor.
Smoking, Commercial Rooms,
and Ladles’ Drawing Rooms,
and Library, &c.
TARIFF: BACKROOMS - - - from £2.25. Weekly
Vg FRONT ROOMS - - from £3 3s. Weekly
JAHES JACKSON, Proprietor (Late Western Australia and Queensland).
Visitors to the Old Courvtrv
THE NEW LOUNGE: ONE OF THE FINEST IN LONDON
Selr-coiYtEdived suites.
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL 111 LONDON
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH HE/VS//VGTOR\
L. OND OSV. S.IV.
*oYAL „ a s
sr Hj.
Backblocks Verse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the Golden Gate.
I wonder, and often wonder, when we gather at
Gabriel’s call,
And, grouped in a careless circle, sit round on our
nags and wait,
With legs swung over the knee-pads, desperate
doubters all,
For Peter to come from the Ivory Lodge and open
the Golden Gate :
I wonder, and often wonder, what things we shall
find to say;
But I know that none will tremble and none will
be filled with fear,
And a jolly young Bogan squatter will be gayest
among the gay,
And he will spin his latest yarn, and it will be
good to hear.
And there is a Lachlan friend of mine with a
merry, laughing eye,
I can guess the way that his thoughts will turn as
he peers through the Golden Bars
And catches a glimpse of a “ trilby ” white as the
angels wander by—
'‘l've noticed some ankles neat in Forbes, but these,
on my word , are stars 1 ”
And there is a reckless mate of mine, a drover out
Walgett way,
You can bet your life that he won’t be dogged by
any religious doubts.
If they keep us too long in the blazing sun he’ll
sneak for a start and say,
“A race! All hands to the nearest pub, and the
last to get there shouts l ”
There’s another—a rebel comrade—poor beggar, if
he gets there,
He won’t sit still in his saddle long, on his restless,
reefing brown
Before he has measured the golden rails and taken
a grip of the mare,
And called to the rest of us, “ Mind yourselves,
and I’ll hammer the top one down I ”
WILL H. OGILVIE.
“So Long.”
When old Daddy Time, in his haste, has flung
Day’s ripened hours o’er his snowy head,
And the mother crickets have shrilly sung
Their lullabies in the parsley-bed—
Spooning, we hang on the creaking gate,
Spinning love-yarns on the loom o’ Fate ;
Aye ! passing glad hours to the goal sublime—
The kiss-time, the bliss-time o’ “ So-long ” time !
“Breaker” Jake and I—how our twin-hearts throb
With Love’s pulsations the whole day long !
For sweet anticipations deftly rob
Hours of their weariness, when Hope is strong.
Coyly we watch for the sentinel stars
To peer, saucily, through night’s ebon bars,
Lighting the hours to the midnight’s chime—
The tease-time, the squeeze-time o’ “So-long’
time !
Let others seek crowns o’ bays or laurel,
Give us the hours when Cupid’s king—
Though often deposed when wooers quarrel—
Just for a moment hearts feel the sting;
When Jealousy has prepared a potion,
And eyes are wet with Sorrow’s lotion,
Love comes crowned again, with a solace prime—
The zest-time, the best-time o’ “So-long” time I
We care not at parting for prude Scorn’s finger—
Quite heedless are we of the night-bird’s cry ;
’Tis “So-long ! ” again, and again ; we linger
Till the quizzing moon-wraiths leave the sky :
Ah ! then we cling in embraces thrilling,
The quintessence pure o’ Joy distilling,
In transitions borne to Love’s heart-ease clime,
Themad-time, the glad-time o’ “So-long” time !
vio.
RITA SUNYASEE.
The Devotees.
Hark ! The sound of mighty paeans swelling up
through distant aeons,
Piping trebles, shrill falsetto, and the deep and
rugged bass,
Singing “Who will dare attack us whilst we shout
the name of Bacchus !
We, his true and loyal vassals, challenge all the
human race.”
And the song goes booming onward as the throng
comes marching downward
(Surely from the throats of amazons and giants
comes that sound),
And the clanking cymbals clamor as from out the
misty glamor,
These chaunting Bacchanalians step down to
solid ground.
Hark! The cymbals sounding clearer as the
concourse staggers nearer ;
We can recognise the tintinnabulation of their
chains,
And their voices seem to borrow energy from pain
and sorrow,
And I marvel if their losses are outvveighted by
their gains.
‘ ‘ Tell me, thou whose locks so hoary and seared
forehead tell their story,
Why ye serve this mighty Bacchus, who so little
seems to give ! ”
And he answers, “ We adore him, and prostrate
ourselves before him,
That if haply we may touch him, for a moment
we may live.”
Hark ! The sound of mighty pteans swelling up
through distant aeons;
“ Hear us, Bacchus, willing bondsmen pressing on
to kiss the rod.
Bacchus ! Monarch of dark Lethe flowing sullenly
beneath thee,
Bacchus ! Life were worse than hopeless but for
thee, our ruddy god.”
TIC.
W.G.H.


BAD COMPLEXIONS
Dry Thin and Falling Hair and Red
Rough Hands Prevented by
CUTICURA SOAP
MILLIONS use Cuticura Soap, assisted by Cuticura Ointment,
for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for cleans-
ing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping
of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red,
rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the
form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes, for ulcerative weak-
nesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic, cleansing purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers, and for all
the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Cuticura Soap com-
bines delicate emollient properties derived from Cuticura Ointment,
the great skin cure, with the purest of cleansing ingredients and
the most refreshing of flower odours. No other medicated soap is to
be compared with it for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair, and hands. No other foreign or domestic toilet soap,
however expensive, is to be compared with it for all the purposes of
the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combines in One Soap at One
Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the best toilet and
baby soap in the world.
COMPLETE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure torturing, disfiguring humours, eczemas,
rashes aud irritations, with lobs of hair, when all else fails. Sold throughout the world.
Australian Dcnot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq.,
London. French Depot: 6 Rue de i» Paix, Paris. Potter Drug and Chem Corf.,
Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated llauid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Cdticuha 1 ills are
a terative?antiseptic, tonic, and digestive, and beyond question the sweetest,
most successful and economical flood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic
digestives, yet compounded.
f
The Uniyersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician**
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and molt
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Female*,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
NEFO
D
\msim
The
‘PLUM’
sf
THE
‘PLUM’
ENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
VX like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of yean, oan testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a. Sd.
•* RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 18a. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21%
PMC* Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15a. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a.
Rkgistered and Sent Post Free to any Part or tub World.
pf Please add 6d. exchange on Country and It. on Intercolonial Cheques.
so!. Agent.: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney,
OPPRESSES.
Executed by
ISS=
WE CURE PAIN!
V
THE DR. AUSTIN ELECTRIC BELT is
the only never-failing cure for Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Weak Back or Kidneys, Nervousness,
Liver, Bladder and Stomach Troubles, Bains in
the Head, and all those ailments from which men
and women suffer. It cures after all other reme-
dies have failed.
We don’t aik anyone to take ohenses en
our Invention.
It doesn't cost you anything If we fall.
All you lose is your time, and if our belt fails to
cure, you will have the satisfaction of knowing
that’ the best, strongest, and finest electric body
appliances in the world— ONE WIIH 50,000
CURES TO ITS CREDIT—has failed, and that
there is no cure for you in electricity.
Remember, our terms are-
PAY WHEN CURED.
FREE DIAGNOSIS. —We do not charge for advice written or personal.
FREE BOOR.—Write for Qur beautifully illustrated Medioal Book and Letters from
cured Patients, sent sealed, FREE. Write to-day.
The Dr* Austin Improved Electric Belt Co„ d*. ■.
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B. New Zealand Clients will please patienfcs
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
1
tin*
) The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition 10
human Milk, the natural and therefore heat nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of frrn flesh and
•trong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLIRYS Ltd., LONDON, and 7, Spring St., SYDNEY.
WILL ANDRADE’S un* B
s
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over r>o engravings,new
1904 edition, hard covers,
improved, 3s 6d. Magic Up-
to-Date, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illus-
trated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Maria
Monk, Is 6d How to
Dance, Is. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d. Nana ; Piping Hot ;
Rush for the Spoil ; and ail Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Datk Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each Reynolds’ Court of London Series,
2s Little Folks' Reciter, Popular Reciter,
Humorous Dialogue Book 6d each. Nigger
Stump Speeches, Is; post. Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels. 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
Is. Georgette, Is; post., Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ,
post, Is 3d. Britain for the British, 6d.
Freemasonry Exposed and Explained, 1905 edi-
tion, with key to all degrees, Is. Cycle Building
and Repairing, new edition, 190 illustrations, Is 3d.
Macfadden’s Physical Training, Is. Virile Powers
or Superb Manhood, ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Hep-
tameron, and many others, all in cheap edition. Bride
of the First Night, 1/3. Rosario, the Female Monk,
2 . How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing,
1/3 How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clair-
voyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy, l's. How
to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing. Is 3d. How to Make Love. Is. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Picture
Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is.
Money Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets,
Is 3d Letter Writer Up-to-Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor, Is. French Art Studies, real
photos, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
Bothner’s Scientific W restlin e, GG full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, is 6d. Stolen Sweets, Is6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is, Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is. 2s 6d, and 6s 6d.
ANU ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
cataloguesNo. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE. —.
f AYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS.
NOTICE <
Tosufferersfrom Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatic*, 4
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, er J
Limbs. *
The Old Reliable English Remedy. <
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS. ’
Prepared by Poingukstkk & Trumah, of <
71 Old Keut Road, London. ]
Renowned for over a century for quick j
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all ,
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists «
in the Australian Colonies. i
Truman'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy* 1
all Parasite* of Head or Body. <
SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. k I*. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrb & Tuuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all 1
Chemist* in the Australian Colonies. <
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment.
NOT BEING
A BELT
it will not burn or blister tbe
skin -There is nothing to
wear round the body to
foster germs-It is rare,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
£1 of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
WRITE
for my new book ( illustrated ) “Mens
_ Sana in Corpore Sano.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and what you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S |
Eflg.^N
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE.
FREE
py POST, A PE®E< C
HOME CURE by that J'uijy
celebrated FRENCH H
PITAL PHYSICIAN an(
PARISIAN SPECIAL^-
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how fchey ma^ b)^ g
THEMSELVES 01- ALL NEBVOUb HOME
Debility, and their senou consequences.
CURE pure and simple t al who need it. Adore
PARISIAN AGENCY, CastleraagH St.,
f=! VDlTBir.


NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
«A#IMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
w* Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, oa. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
The Only Certain
Moustache Produeof.
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AQKNTS.
CRAIG &. AITKEIV. N.S.W. Barbers Supplj
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SVD.'IiY.
Til Try It. 1
1 ht RiiulL
IN HOT CLIMATES
where a good antiseptic soap is ofteff
more a necessity than a luxury,
CALVERTS
20 per cent
Carbolic Soap
has a ready sale, on account of its
refreshing qualities, and the protec-
tion its use gives against mosquito
bites. It contains 20% Crystal Car-
bolic, and is useful for insect bites
or stings, ringworm, itch, &c.
Calvert’s Disinfecting Powder
is guaranteed to contain 15% Carbolic and
so is cheap to use as it need only be lightly
sprinkled to destroy noxious and unpleas-
ant odours and prevent the approach of
infection. Jib., 1 lb. and 2 lb. tins.
P. C. CALVERT k Co., Manchester,
_ Enoland.
Humbugging
Offers or con
ditions to
comply with.
FREE
In order to introduce our Goods into every
home, a lady’s or gent.’s Rolled Gold Watch
Chain and Pendant will be presented, entirely
free, to each purchaser of one pair of our Special
Cuff Links, price, 4/9. Please note that we send
the Watch Chain and Pendant complete in case
with warranty along with the Cuff Links, im-
mediately we receive your postal note for 4/9 ;
if 3d extra is added goods will be sent by regis-
tered post, and thereby save any risk of breakage.
Address, THE INTRODUCING COMPANY,
• PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
USES
Insecticide
Kills
ALL
INSECTS
f
<9&
j£ Cfi
Of/imitation*
fo£ Kruse's
s
THE BALLET GIRL
fs
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
fast Fra*, 1a
Th* Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Past Frsa, la.
Lend Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY .
so
SOLD
BY
ROBERT!
f
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THI POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOT!?.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The now 26th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
oloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engraving's, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, It.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Ut-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Stand are Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Gd posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stumf Sfeeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writino Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, I*. Metal-working for Am*.
Tlurs, Solbeking, Brazino, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Flat Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustavs Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp os Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keepins, Is posted. Parlor Maoic, Is
post'd. Evert Man His Own Builder, Is. Evert
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Liohtnino Calculator Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speakino Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly. Gano op
Bushranger's, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simi'LE (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Evert Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All thasa prices Post Paid.
Don’t bo fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
oavo your cash, gee Eitablithed 90 Ytart.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS A DVT.
» -
Write for my ......
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere tor the Asking,
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Makb Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
le. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2a 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Cloq Dancino Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistrt, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court ok Enoland, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, la posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Me roan's Freemasonry,
la 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, Cd posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2a.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortunb
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full i reckons, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk's Advice to a
Mother, 3i Pd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post Iree. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted,
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1708 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted. Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Triced
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
LADIES' CD» GENT.'S
jWatches (EL Chains,
; Birthday RINGS
; Brooches, Curb Chain Bracelets— FßEE.
. A Solid Gold Ladies' or Gent.’s Watch costs
from to /, 10. Don’t throw your money
, away. If you want a watch that will equal for
I time any solid gold watch made, send us your
name and address at once, and we will send
you 8 boxes of our famous New Life Electine
Vegetable Pills to sell at i/- a box—a grand
remedy and cure for all impure and weak con-
ditions of the blood, kidney and liver trouble, a
cure for constipation and weak nervous disor-
, ders, a tonic and a life builder. Our pills are
genuine, and are carefully manufactured from
' the very best drugs. They are easy to sell.
I Send us your order at once, and we will send
you the 8 boxes, postage paid. When sold you
send us our money, 8/-, and we will send you
your prize. We are giving these watches and
other prizes to quickly introduce our pills,
and when you receive your premium we ask you to show it to your friends. This is a grand oppor-
tunity to get a fine Watch and Chain Free. Send us your name and address at once. Yon
take no risk. Electine Medicine Co., Ash St., Sy dney, N.S.W.
t^o* 4
e
Samples of the Hundreds of Testimonials we receive Daily.
Electine Medicine Co.
Mr. McDermott is buying all the pills himself.
They have done him so much good that he will
not be without them.—Mrs. D. McDermott,
OUfimbah, N.S.W.
ii Bourke Street, Footscray, Vic.,
Electine Medicine Co.,
Dear Sir,—l have sold your pills quickly, and
have found them very good, and will you kindly
send me 8 more boxes.— Mrs. J. Beisha.
MEN S DISEASES.
Private, Nervous, Skin,
and Blood Diseases, Loss
of Vitality and Vigor,
Rupture, Varicocele, and
all kindred disorders
cured SPEEDILY,
THOROUGHLY, and
PERMANENTLY.
Health, Strength, Vigor, Happi-
ness, Energy, and Ambition
restored by Australasia’s lead-
ing and most successful
Specialist Has more testi-
monials than any other
Physlolan In Australasia.
sf
Almost any Practitioner can af-
ford relief ; but men who are weak
and despondent require thorough
and permanent cures. Such cures
are effected daily by Dr. W. Carter
Watson, Chief Physician and Sur-
geon of the
Sydney Institute of
Medicine & Electricity.
He is registered by Government
Medical Boards, and when he
undertakes your case you run no
risk. His methods of treatment
are envied by less skilful Practi-
tioners. He never uses mercury or
other dangerous drugs, and his
remedies are prepared personally in
his private Laboratories. When
he says he will cure you thoroughly
HE IS READY TO BACK HIS STATEMENT
by a forfeit of £250, and testimonials of hundreds of cured patients, not only in Sydney, but from every
town and village in Australasia. He invites you to call and have a confidential chat about your trouble. A
thorough examination and consultation will cost you nothing, and he will explain his methods of making
weak and diseased men Strong, Healthy and Vigorous. It may be that you have been unsuccessfully treated
by numerous practitioners. That is not evidence that you are incurable. It means that the treatment was
administered unskilfully. DR. WATSON otters you correct treatment that will make a man of you, as it haa
made of others.
DR. WATSON cures a great many patients every year
without seeing them. This system of treatment is a
special and scientifically managed Department. If
you cannot call, write at once for a diagnosis blank which covers every symptom. Your case can be
diagnosed as minutely and treated as skilfully in this manner as by a personal interview. His great medical
work, “ MALADIES OF MANKIND,"
is sent FREE to any address on receipt of sixpence in stamps to defray postage. This large valuable work
contains 53 profusely-illustrated chapters on the functions of the human body, and properly-applied
Electricity as an adjunct to medicine.
Home Cures by Mail.
FREE ADVICE.
REMEDIES
(Including:
Carriage),
£1
Dr. W. Carter Watson, M.D.,
Etc.,
Etc.,
Chief Physician and Surgeon
SYDNEY INSTITUTE of MEDICINE AND ELECTRICITY,
78 WSe 80 Hunter at., Syd.no
10 to 5 Dally.
Evenings, 7 to ol
Monday, Wednesday!
and Saturday. 1
THE LAST OF SIX
Price Cel.
Post Fret
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years 9
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
f best proof of the claim of
Oxbridge:,
£ungTontc
l to be the WORLD'S OURE\
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
t can ba obtain 3d from
any Chemist or i tore,
and Saves Many
Lives.
ROTHJRHAIYIS
ENGLISH WATCHED
Speciality tm*
MODELE DE LUXE WATCHES
WITH RATE CERTIFICATE.
<SOLD BY ALL
WHO CAN SHO W-
H*tm
WAIN
a
Jewellers.
lU.UBTIMIDCfIM.ONU
s
f
TTfl m ~ iin
SPOONER'S
~ToYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots and Shoos.
(In bottles) Od. and XL
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (la
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROOATIOR,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing*,
Etc., Eta
Sold by all Storekeeper*
Boot Shope, Saddlort, da
km
SPO ONERS
V
*
*
*TCNT LEATHER BOOTS
CUI£O AIOS i?


HENNESSY’S
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
BRANDY.
Messrs. Honncssy guarantee all their Brandies to be GENUINE GRAPE, and distilled from Wine only.
MURRELLS & BECKER
MANUFACTURERS SPORTING
anti TRAVELLING GOODS.
■
SANDOW FOOTBALLS, the Most Reliable
in Australia, 14/6 (each quarter hand-
stretched) ; other sizes and qualities from 2/6.
SHIN GUARDS— White Drill, Straps and
Duckies, 1/6 ; Basil Leaflher, Straps and
Buckles, 2/9.
PUNCHING BALLS—22/6 to 35/-.
Punchball Bladders, Gloves, and Swivels
always in Stock.
TRUNKS, PORTMANTEAUS, and TRAVELLING
BAGS Of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
The Travellers’ Depot,
360 Collins St., Melbourne
212 Edward St., Brisbane
Write for Catalogue B.
Star Trombone Accordeon
s
THE LATEST NOVELTY I MARVELLOU8 INVENTION 1
No More Broken Stop# No Damage can be Done to the Stops.
This Patent Trombone Accordeon is fitted with the following
improved ideas
1. The Stops are fitted to the keyboard, as shown in sketch,
and produce the different tones by simply turning them in the
direction of the arrows.
2. The 10-pipe Ribbed Hard Metal Cover protects the valves
and reedSy and gives a greater strength of tone than any other
instrument in the market.
This Accordeon is fitted with extra strong double Bellows, with
Metal-bound Corners, and has extra special broad-hammered Steel
Bronze Reeds.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, as per sketch, £1 os.
Accordeons, 7/6 to 63/* Send for Catalogue B.
For GRAMOPHONE see our advertisement on another page.
Other
HEINDORFF BROS.
210 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
[3
NESTLES MILK
THE WORLD’S STANDARD BEST QUALITY.
Nestles Milk Food
for children.
THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR MOTHER’S MILK.
Wml
•*v~
n»k
i 1 *
*
iTiiWd
1
m
I
A
-•*e
sfd
RUBEROID ROOFING
FITS ANY ROOF FIT FOR ANY ROOF.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
11l Other States
*•■«*«**►* v ■
MELBOURNE -
ADELAIDE - -
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., LTD.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO.
FREMANTLE -
HOBART - - -
- J. M. FERGUSON, LTD.
- WILLIAM CROSBY & CO.
LAUNCESTON -
- THE TASMANIAN WOOLGROWERS’ AGENCY CO., LTD.
RUBEROIP
AVENUE...
has been designed for two
distinct reasons* The
first is to give an idea of
the appearance of a street
in which every house is
rcofed with RUBEROID*
The second to show the
titiPty of RUBEROID and
its adaptability to any
style or design of roof*
From both points of view
Ruberoid Avenue is a
success*
RUBEROID is the same
roofing that it was 14
years ago —the best that
can be produced* There
have been no attempts to
cheapen it* Rather have
the manufacturers im-
proved it where improve-
ment was possible*
Above all things, use
RUBEROID, and avoid
imitations*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 26.-No. 1317.
THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1005.
Price 6d.
THE ANTI-SOCIALISM MOVEMENT.
VOTER: “YES, BUT WHAT’S 'SOUR PRINCIPLES?"
CABBY GEORGE : “OH, I LEAVES THAT TO YOU, SIR."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS]
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiib Buixetin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to A tldrc.u < Letter*.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central Neios Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town ; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
H. R. Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Konta.—Bretver and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Ilona
Kong. • a
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1905.
ANTI-SOCIALISM.
Mr. Reid’s anti-Socialism tour progresses better
than might have been thought possible. He is
showing to fair houses, and, though a good deal
heckled everywhere, has never actually been
hooted off the stage. Once upon a time in poli-
tics, as in other walks of life, “ the play was the
thing.” But all that is changed in these days of
musical comedy, and it is possible for a politician
to hold the boards without either plot, rhyme, or
reason in his lines, just as it is possible for Mr.
Lauri to prop up into a similitude of dramatic life
some senseless jingle of variety business, simply
by good clowning. Mr. Reid has the advantages
of a massive impudence and a portly figure. He
can always raise a laugh, if not at his fun, then at
his figure, or anything else of his that is absurd
And the man who can raise a laugh has an assured
corner on the stage among a community where
“Hamlet” is played in an abridged form, but
never with the gravediggers’ clowning omitted.
It is, tod, looking at the matter away from the
heats and angers of party politics, right that it
should be so. It is not good for man to take any-
thing too seriously, even the vital business of
politics. Even there a clown must occasionally
have a place. But he must not intf-ude into the
leading part. That the electors will probably
make quite clear to Mr. Reid, if Parliament does
not, before many months have elapsed.
* * * *
For the anti-Socialism crusade, in spite of the
amused toleration it wins from a section of the
public which sees no harm in a little comic relief
during the Parliamentary recess, cannot by any
possible chance be taken sufficiently seriously to
put Mr. Reid back into power. It is attacked
weightily from two sides. From one side Mr.
J. 0. Watson, in a series of admirable speeches
which have given solid fact with much brightness
and clearness of expression, has set himself to
showing clearly what is the Socialism which the
Labor party aims at and which Mr. Reid
makes a cause of opposing. He has shown it in
actual working—the State-owned railways, tram-
ways, telephones, telegraphs, and postal services ;
the Factories Acts, the early closing laws and
Industrial Arbitration legislation ; has indicated
clearly and unmistakably the path which has
been surveyed for its further extension —legislation
which will attack in their citadels the sweater
and the land monopolist, and which will authorise
State and municipal enterprise to further substi-
tute control by the people for' control by trusts of
great industrial monopolies. Where in the con-
duct of an industry sweating makes the conditions
ot the workers bad for the social well-being, the
Law shall interfere and ameliorate. Where
monopoly, with envious hand, keeps back the
people from a natural opportunity of wealth pro-
duction, the Law shall push it aside. Where great
enterprises of public utility become under private
OAvnership dangers rather than blessings to the
community, the Law shall step in as master and
carry them on for the people’s good. That is the
Socialism of the Australian Labor party as ex-
pounded by Mr. Watson. Mr. Reid dare not
face the task of opposing that, and therefore
necessarily makes what little of his speeches
he can spare from clowning a series of
evasions and slanders. From the other side, Mr.
Reid is attacked by Mr. Bruce Smith, a genuine
anti-Socialist, who really is convinced that
Socialistic legislation is evil, who Avould siveep
away all Arbitration Havs. Factory Acts, State
railways, old age pensions, State schools, State
postal services, and confine the functions of the
State strictly to those of the police and military—
with an occasional bit of Socialism to help banking
companies when they are in difficulties. As to
Mr. Bruce Smith’s sincerity of faith there is not
much question. He is so deadly in earnest that
the jocosity and insincerity of Mr. Reid enrages
him, and he has been forced to come out with a
declaration of open hostility to Mr. Reid, Avho
has answered Avith rude and rather mean retorts,
characteristic of him—the man with the good-
natured stomach and the malicious head.
* * * *
Between the tAvo, Mr. J. C. Watson, the leader
of the Socialistic Liberals on the one hand, and
Mr. Bruce Smith, the true leader of the anti-
Socialists on the other, Mr. Reid’s position is
hopeless. Mr. Watson shows that Avhat Mr.
Reid professes to oppose is precisely what the
settled voice of the Australian democracy calls
for. Mr. Bruce Smith appeals to the small
section of the politically precious, who really are
against any State interference with industry, by
exposing Mr. Reid as the hollowest of shams. A
third factor comes into the contest. The ghost
of Mr. Reid’s reputation gibbers at him from
evei-y anti-Socialist platform. It was Mr. Reid
who, by artful appeals to the Labor Party,
trampled down Parkes and so climbed into
Eower in N.S.W., to be the faithful servant of
labor Avhen its Socialism was a good deal more
raw and pronounced than now. It was Mr. Reid
who, in the Federal Parliament for four long years,
grovelled at the feet of the Labor party to seek to
detach them first from the Barton and then from
the Deakin Government. If the secret history of
the first Federal Parliament Avere to be now dis-
closed by the Labor party (it Avill not be, for the
party observes a scrupulous standard of chivalry),
it Avould show Mr. Reid, Avho at present appeals
for power on the plea of antagonism to the
Labor party, ever prostrate before its caucus,
with an emissary ever eagerly waiting on
its councils to observe any chance of office
at the price of adopting its ideas. One typical
fact did find its Avay to publicity: when
the Barton Government was tottering to a fall
over the Arbitration Bill, and there was a
possibility of a general election being held without
an Elections Act in existence, and consequently
of the House of Representatives delegation in each
State being chosen, as is the Senate, by a mass
vote, Mr. Reid Avas Avilling to undertake to the
Labor party to put all its N.S.W. members—
Freetraders or Protectionists —on his ticket, and
thus go to the country in the closest possible
alliance with Mr. Watson and Mr. Hughes.
Their policy Avas then exactly Avhat it is now. So,
of course, Avas Mr. Reid’s. He wanted office at
any price.
* * * *
Mr. Reid only ceased to make hot love to the
Labor party Avhen his clear blue eye saw an easier
victim to his wiles in Mr. Deakin. So extra-
ordinary Avere the sacrifices Avhich Mr. Reid made,
and AA as prepared to make, to get to power, that
it did not need much cynicism for critics to sur-
mise that office Avas only intended by him as a
stepping-stone to a permanent billet; and this
notion is current now in the report that Mr.
Reid Avill be satisfied if the anti-Socialism
crusade succeeds so far as to make him Com-
monwealth High Commissioner Avhen Parlia-
ment meets. But it is difficult to believe, even of
Mr. Reid, that he had so sordid a motive.
Another explanation is that ambition to be
enrolled among the Premiers of the Common-
wealth blinded him to everything but the end;
that he Avas like the man who Avas determined to
get into good society even if he had to break in
Avith an axe. But Avhatever the controlling cause,
Mr. Reid’s actions Avere plain enough. He Avas
willing to do anything, believe anything, associate
with anybody, to creep and intrude into poAver.
That he succeeded is a reflection on Parliament.
If the electors should endorse his tenure of office
it Avould be a reflection on the people. But he Avill
need something more sincere than this “anti-
Socialism ” crusade to induce them to that.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA HAS AN ELECTION.
When S. Australia goes to its general election on
the last Saturday of this month it will have to
choose , bet ween one policy and three pretences.
Price’s party is the only one that has principles
and sticks to them. All the others stand for mere
vote-catching compromises. The big question
is that of the Legislative Council franchise.
The §. Australian, by virtue of his citizenship,
has a vote for the Australian Senate ; and so well
does he know how to use it that twice he has sent
to that House a band whose ability has made it
conspicuous in a House of more than average
ability. Yet for the petty State Legislative
Coined five-sevenths of these electors have no
vote. They are good and wise and patriotic
enough to be full citizens of Australia ; they
are not good and wise and patriotic enough
to be full citizens of South Australia. The
Register, the local Conservative paper, puts
the matter frankly. Power, it says, should follow
the purse—the bigger the purse the more the
power. Nothing else counts. The test is how
much have you got ? And pursued logically it
argues that a man can become a better citizen and
a more trusty political force by a successful
burglary.
* * * *
Price is the one leader in South Australia
who will have no truck with this grotesquely
unchristian and uncivilised doctrine. Darling,
Butler and Peake, the other three, all
toy with the absurd thing. True, it is so absurd
that not one of them ventures to adopt it in full.
Even the Register dare not propose to give the
millionaire, who has got rich by blocking settle-
ment, a thousand votes, and the farmer, who is
poor because the millionaire has blocked him or
sweated him, but one vote. It compromises by
giving the millionaire one vote and the starved-
out farmer none at all for the Council.
* * * *
Butler proposes to maintain the absurd money
qualification, but to put frills on it and so cloak its
deformities. His idea is to knock £5 off the resi-
dential qualification and give the dual vote —one
for the man and the other for the woman. The
result will be that Fat will get two votes instead
of one, and Lean will have none as before. It
is true that a few more, who are neither fat nor
very lean, will be admitted to the select. But the
principle is still there—the principle so brutally
stated by the Register, which, as its chief advo-
cate, ought to know. What special virtue there
is in a £2O house nobody, however, has discovered.
The selector who is battling for a living, and
prefers to live awhile in discomfort rather than
run into debt to either the builder or the
storekeeper, is surely as good a citizen as,
say, the sharebroker or the professional man
who sets out every morning from his £lOO-a-year
villa to prey or work in the city. The battler,
who to-day is doing, under adverse conditions,
what the pioneers did 60 years ago under better
conditions, seems indeed to he the very person
who ought to be encouraged. Butler. Darling,
and Peake encourage him by telling him that he
is unfit to be a free citizen, and that while the
city man who is comfortably bleeding him is a
good and desirable person, who should vote, he
is himself, to a degree, an outcast. Only Price
and his Labor party take the other attitude.
* * * *
But Price and his party are “Socialists”; and
Socialists, the liars say, are an irreligious lot, who
plot against the Sanctity of the Home, and are
the enemies of Religion. S. Australia, being
allegedly more religious than most places, the
“Power to the Purse” crowd cunningly screams
these libels with uncommon vigor. So sacred is
the home to the Pat anti-Socialist of S. Australia
that if it is a humble cottage it carries no vote, but
if it is a gaudy harem it carries two. And so
deeply religious are these Fat anti-Socialists that
they make riches the one consideration, and would
put Joseph the Carpenter down as “no class,”
and to be reckoned among the outcast five-
sevenths, because his manger wouldn’t be assessed
at £25 a year. Certainly Butler would pass him
if the assessors could anyhow make it £2O, and
Peake would even allow him in at £l5; but
below that—no ! Price and his party alone of
them all say that it is the man the country has to
consider, and not his hut. Yet the liars say
that this is the irreligious party—led, by the way,
by about the most fervent preacher in all the
State!
* * * *
But S. Australia is a timorous soul, and
desperately afraid that somebody will do some-
thing rash ; and Butler, it argues, doesn’t look
the sort of person who would be guilty of that.
He doesn’t. But he looks the sort of person who
will stay in office by the grace of John Darling ;
and that is worse. There used to be a lot of talk
about the “ Constitcoshun ”; the Labor party
always had wicked designs upon that bulwark of
our liberties. Somehow, though, the “ Constitoo-
shun” is in these days allowed to take care of
itself ; and, in particular, the anti-Laborites never
mention it. The whole explanation of this
remarkable silence is that the anti-Laborites have
been making firewood of the thing that only the
other day was the Ark of the Covenant. The
whole history of S. Australian politics, the
last few years, is a mockery of Responsible
Government ; and Butler and Darling have
been the mockers. Jenkins and Butler (his
Treasurer) never had a majority. They lived
simply because Joun Darling let them live.
They bro.ught down measures ; if John Darling
approved, well and good. If not—well, Nature
had fashioned them hollow. Darling governed,
but be accepted no responsibility—which is the
essence of “ machine ” rule and Tammany politics.
If S.A. returns Butler, nobody knows what will
happen. He may propose, but, since he cannot
have a majority of his own, another will dispose ;
and, no matter what that other may do, he will
not be responsible. Price, on the other hand,
offers an absolutely definite programme. And as
good as it is definite—not a programme to please
the extremists, but Liberal, evolutionary, and in-
tensely practical.
* * * *
As to finance, Price does not suffer from too
much courage. But he offers some reform. There
is to be no more borrowing except to pay off old
loans, to carry out authorised works and under-
takings which will show sinking fund as well as
interest. A definite declaration against all bor-
rowing would be better. Still, Price offers the
next best thing. South Australia has heavy debts
falling due ; the Labor party offers a guarantee
to Cohen not to reduce the value of his security
by charging it with any more unprofitable works.
Further, while Butler will do no more to place
the people on the land than Bent is doing in
Victoria, Price proposes a graduated land-tax
which will unlock more lands in one year than
any land-purchase scheme is likely to do in five.
Impose a land-tax, and lands which carry sheep
and ought to carry men will unlock them-
selves ; Butler’s scheme simply means that
another buyer, the State, will go into the
market, the price of land will- spring up,
and if the settler gets it he will be
heavily burdened with debt; and whereas before
he had to struggle to pav rent, then he will
have to pay interest. Butler shifts the load from
the right shoulder of the settler to his left; Price
shifts it from the settler and puts it on to the
land monopolist, who in most cases got the land
for little, and to whom, therefore, the tax does no
wrong. Price's programme is so practical that it
takes in, too, a Food and Drugs Bill—than which
no legislation is more urgent; "hardly any touches
more closely the life of the people. “But Price is
essentially the politician of the home; and it is
characteristic of him, as it is of the party he leads,
that he should put such a matter right in the
front of the things to be worked for. Timorous
S. Australia, too, might reflect on that plank—that
the politician of the home, who can think of the
quality of the family’s milk and bread and gro-
ceries, isn’t likely to be the sort of man to carry
bombs in his pockets.
IS COMMUNISM POSSIBLE?
“H.S.T.” furnishes some reflections upon a valu-
able and probably unique personal experience
Is Communism possible? Neither S.A. village settle-
ment experiments nor the New Australia-Cosme colonies
have provided any adequate answer to the question. As
stated, correctly, in “A Social Experiment ” (B. 6/4/’O5)
in reference to the former, “ they provided for
no conclusive test as to whether the modern
human is capable of Communism, for the condi-
tions were too severe for even individualism to sur-
vive und -r.” The writer was for three years closely
associated with the Paraguayan schemes, and also put in
a few months at one of the S.A. village settlements,
Murtho, now defunct, but generally regarded as the one
settlement in which any definite effort to realise Com-
munism was persisted in, even for a time. The Murtho
people, who were all in full sympathy with the New Aus-
tralian movement, and had mostly left decent positions
in the outside world, aimed at Communism because
they believed in it. The bulk of those on the other
settlements appear to have temporarily embraced
Communism, because it was necessary for them to
strike out afresh somewhere, and they took advan-
tage of the opportunity offered them; and, despite
the admirable intentions of the Kingston-Cockburn-
Gillen party, it was not to be supposed that men
without previous training in Communistic thought
would take kindly to Communistic living. As a matter
of fact, it does not appear that any definite attempt to
put in practice the principles of Communism was made at
most, of the settlements, and their failure was not the
failure of Communism. Life at Murtho was very pleasant
and restful to one tired of the clashing of interests in the
competitive world, and it is possible that the community
would have held together and prospered, more or less,
had its members been better used to pioneering and coun-
try work, and had it been possible to secure crops without
recourse to irrigation. But when irrigation is essential,
and water has to be lifted over a hundred feet before irri-
gation is possible, much capital, and more experience, is
needed before success can be achieved. Murtho fell to
pieces, as most of the other settlements have done,
because it failed to pay its way.
• * • ■*
The Murtho people were mostly religious, with a
simple faith that accepted Communism as an integral
part of the Christian teaching. In this they were
in line with the numerous communities which, in the
past, have demonstrated the practical possibility of the
communal life—within their own limits—and with
the Kappite, the Amanist, and Shaker communities,
which still exist and, to an extent, flourish in
America. Lane believed that as primitive society has
almost invariably taken the Communistic form, the Com-
munistic impulse was always waiting to re-assert itself,
given a fair chance. But he also came to believe that
any movement towards Communism, to be successful,
would need to be run on definitely religious lines. The
first disruption at New Australia lie attributed to the fact
that sufficient prominence had not been given to the re-
ligious idea in the early stages of the movement. He
withdrew from New Australia because, as he reckoned,
the Communism of members was the result of desire for
material comfort and not the outcome of religious fana-
ticism. The pick of the original settlers withdrew with
Lank, and Communism in New Australia thereafter had
no chance to survive.
* • * *
One or two good men remained—notably Walker
(Lane’s one-time partner in Brisbane Boomerang) and
Sibbald of Adelaide, who were not only capable of effec-
tive leadership, but imbued with the Communistic spirit
as well; but the crowd never trusted them. Those who
went with Lane and founded Cosine certainly had a belief
in Communism which might be termed religious, but the
real bond of religion holding them together was the
worship of William Lane (present writer was one of them,
and writes with no bitterness, but in sad and sober
earnest), and this served admirably to hold them together,
while it lasted. For two years life in Cosme was joyous
and full. Tucker was bad and housing poor, but the
social and intellectual life of the place moved on a re-
markably high plane, and work went forward animated
by a spirit of genuine brotherliness.
* * * *
When the present writer was obliged to return to Aus-
tralia, after two years’ residence in Cosme, he did so in the
full belief that the colony was destined at least to attract
and keep a population of some hundreds, perhaps thousands,
and to demonstrate anew the feasibility of the Commu-
nistic ideal. To-day both Cosme and New Australia are
still in existence. But whereas a recent visitor has
described New Australia (running now for over eight
years on individualistic lines) as the most flourishing
Anglo-Saxon settlement in South America, Cosme, after
some years of organising effort in Great Britain and Aus-
tralia, has seen scores of would-be Communists come—
and go—and has retained only a remnant of its original
and later settlers. After eight years of organising effort,
the community has sadly resolved to cease issuing its
little monthly paper and to confine itself to the publica-
tion of an annual report. Present writer, having a lean-
ing towards the Christian faith, as he understands
it, may be prejudiced, but believes he is perfectly
honest and unbiassed in ascribing Cosme’s failure,
aftei; the initial years of enthusiasm, to the absence of any
adequate religious sentiment cementing the community
and inspiring its administration. Lane never recovered
from the effects of the strain incidental to the launching
of New Australia and subsequent internal dissensions, and
in the end lost both the humanitarian fervor and the
sympathetic winsomeness of disposition which alone had
made New Australia possible in the first place. Brain-
fagged and warped and narrowed—alike in sympathy and
mental outlook—though he never lost in sincerity and
personal integrity, he became in time a centre of repulsion
rather than of attraction, and thereafter it ceased to be
possible for Cosme to expand on Communistic lines, though
the form of Communism has continued to be observed in
the conduct of the settlement. But it has been merely
the dead husk which has remained, for if the experience
gained at New Australia and Cosme and recorded of the
American communities counts for anything, it is certain
that genuine, living Communism is only possible to
moderns when those who would practise it are knit
together by a faith whereof one of the fruits shall be the
possession of that spirit of tolerance and charity which is
the essentially Christian (and Buddhistic, if you like) graft
upon the noble stock of Pagan virtue. This is, perhaps,
not necessarily associated with a theistic theology or with
belief in Christian doctrine as ordinarily understood. But
it is a curious fact that Lane notably lost this spirit,
which formerly was his most marked characteristic, in
proportion as he grew emphatic, and fanatic, in declaring
his abhorrence of the “ Christian idolatry ” and his belief
in the worship of Law-God, or God-Law, as essential to
Communism.
* * * #
Nordhoff, in his famous book on American commu-
nities (not easily procurable nowadays), showed that the
Communistic form of society, other things being equal,
was pre-eminently adapted to the primitive conditions of
pioneering settlement by communities lacking capital,
but held together by any tie of common belief. And this
at least was abundantly borne out by Cosme experience.
For the first six months of Cosme settlement the total
expenditure per head (representing all the funds avail-
able) was only £6, though this covered cost of working
bullocks, horses, transportation expenses, seeds, and
medical attendance, in addition to foodstuffs, all of
which had to be purchased. And all hands were satisfied
and contented, whereas it is not conceivable that the
individual families, but for the bond of Communism, could
have made homes for themselves, or even have existed
throughout that period, except on charity. The Shakers,
numbering now 18 communities, and practising Com-
munism for over a century, have proved Communism
possible, and so have other religious bodies in America.
But from Icaria downwards the secular movements
towards Communism have failed. Of comparatively
recent years, the much-advertised Freeland (which Dr.
Hertzka projected in Central Africa), Topolobampo set-
tlement in Sinaloa Bay, Mexico (in which Flurscheim
was interested, and which aimed at a “ Pacific City,”
practised irrigation, and ran for eight or nine years),
Kaweah (started to incorporate the Bellamy ideals),
and lastly New Australia, all failed of their
original purpose. New Australia probably had
stronger and more enduring elements of success in it
than any of the others, and this settlement —with the
Communistic element eliminated—gives promise of prov-
ing more or less permanent. At latest advice the popula-
tion at New Australia seemed to be holding its own,
several ex-settlers having returned, after sojourn in S.
Africa and elsewhere, and Gilbert Casey was engaged in
organising settlers on co-operative lines for cotton-grow-
ing.
* » * *
This may be taken as certain, that, notwithstanding
the fate of the Paraguayan experiments and the South
Australian settlements, Communism will continue to be
held as an ideal, far-off and unrealisable as are all ideals
that stir the hearts of men, but none the less attractive
and inspiring. Meanwhile, the forward movements im-
mediately possible in any such direction as Communism
will be made under the direction of men by whom the
ideal is subordinated to the real. Brigham Fouxg, the
coarse-grained, practical man who carried on the work m
the visionary founders of Mormonism, without directly
aiming at Communism, founded a community in which
virtual equality and prosperity should be common to alb
and incidentally laid the foundation for irrigation in aria
America, and, through America, in Australia as well.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Tiiug’s Trick. •
The econd Law Term has opened in New South
Wales, and there has been no sitting of the Arbi-
tration Court. Tlie fact constitutes a charge
against the Carruthers Government, which, if
not promptly answered by remedial action, should
earn for it instant dismissal from office. It is well
known that the Government has been much
prompted by its friends of the Employers’Federa-
tion to hostility towards Industrial Arbitration.
At the last general elections some of the capital-
ists were eager to bind Mr. Carruthers to
a definite pledge to abolish the Act. He,
not being in a suicidal frame of mind
then, refused. _ But, after the elections, he sat
quiet whilst his Attorney-General, the officer
sworn to administer it, attacked the Arbitration
Act. That fact indicated that he was prepared
to make concessions to the sweating interest, which
is in organised opposition to the principle of
Arbitration. Now an occasion has come, through
the resignation of Mr. .Justice Cohen from the
presidency of the Court, for quietly smothering
the Act. To repeal it, Mr. Carruthers knows,
is impossible. Parliament would never sanction
that step back. But if the Act is allowed to
lapse for a while, through the refusal of
the Government to surmount a difficulty of
administration, the Act would be as good as
killed. Already business under it is seriously
congested, and appellants who have been waiting
two years find their causes still unheard. Add to
the existing congestion the additional one caused
by a long cessation of the sessions of the Court;
add to it also the sense of the uselessness of the
Act which this breach of its continuity will im-
press upon many minds, and the Act will be to all
intents and purposes killed. The Carruthers
Government, when charged with its assassination
in this mean and underhand way, will have
no valid excuse. In a tired sort of way
the Cabinet pleads impotence. “It is not pos-
sible to get a Supreme Court Judge to preside
over the Court. It is not possible to appoint a
new Supreme Court Judge who is willing to take
up the duties.” That is all fudge. There is
nothing which is right, and in the community’s in-
terest, that the Executive cannot do. It can, and
almost eve.ry day does, anticipate Parliament,
seeking an indemnity afterwards. That is what
the Executive exists for. Mr. Carruthers, if he
choose to, could insist on the Bench of the
Supreme Court appointing one of their number to
preside at the Arbitration Court. The law says
that there shall be an Arbitration Court,
and the Bench can no more go on strike
against working in that Court than it can
against working in the Divorce Court, the Equity
Court, or the Criminal Court. If all the Judges
were suddenly smitten with such soft-heartedness
that not one would officiate where it was necessary
to send a man to gaol, the Government would
very soon find a way out of that difficulty. And
it should be just as ready to find a way out of this
Arbitration difficulty. If, in the last resort, Mr.
Carruthers lacks the courage to use the power
and trust which Parliament has given him, he
might summon Parliament to meet and help him.
Any step should be taken rather than allow
justice to be denied to Arbitration Court suitors.
Allowing that the Government is hostile to the
Arbitration Act, let Mr. Carruthers (or Mr.
Wade, who seems to rule him in this) move
openly for its repeal. To strangle it in a dark
corner, which seems to be their present intention,
is a Thug trick.
Tie Attorney-General and the High Court.
Few more disgraceful things have happened in
the public life of Australia during recent years
than the action of the Federal Attorney-General
in connection with the High Court. It is not
quite clear at present whether his action has the
sanction of the Government. Unless, however, it
is very soon disowned by Mr. Reid— a proceeding
which must, of course, involve the Attorney-
General’s resignation—it must be regarded as
the action of the Government, and must be
accounted for by the Government to the
House. It is hard to believe that even the
members of this Government, who have sunk
everything, except their determination to hold
office, will support the Attorney-General in
his present attitude towards the Court. The
incident began with a newspaper interview,
apropos of nothing, in which Mr. Josiah Symon
unburdened himself of a column of ill-mannered
and bombastic criticism of the High Court Judges
because they had, as the law empowered and
intended them to do, held sittings in all the States
qf the Commonwealth. He held up his hands
in holy honor because, in the course of his travels,
one Judge and his associate had between them
run up a bill of £4 13s. per day for a limited
period of time. It is said on very good authority
that these figures are wrong, and that, though
Mr. Symon now knows they are wrong, he has
■not publicly corrected them. In any case, assum-
ing them to be right, it is worth while mentioning
that the rate of travelling expenses which has just
been fixed by the economy-loving Government of
N.S.W. for the State Judges is £4 10s. per day—
this being by way of a reduction on the amount
previously paid. That, however, is by the
way. The point here is that if the expenses
had £4o per day, Mr. Symon’s un-
seemly haste to chatter about it in the news-
papers would not have been justified. There
was no public interest in the matter, for the public
knew nothing about, it. It was not necessary for
the purpose of defending his administration of his
department, for that had not been attacked. It
was nothing but a gratuitous and ungenerous
attack upon men who, as Mr. Symon very well
knew, could not retaliate. If there was extrava-
gance, that could have been stopped, and ought
to have been stopped, by a note from the
Attorney-General to the Chief Justice. Mr.
Svmon preferred to allege it by a method
which strove to drag the dignity of the High
Court in the mud, and which would, if only
the public had had a little more confidence
in Mr. Symon, have seriously weakened public
confidence in the Judges. The next step in the
business was a childish and pettifogging refusal to
furnish the Chief Justice’s room at the Sydney
Court with book-shelves. A more moderate and
reasonable request could not have been made.
The rooms of both the other Judges had been so
furnished, and the G.J. was put to daily in-
convenience by the absence of his private
library. Ten pounds would have done all
that was wanted. Not only did this < hero
of economy refuse to find the £lO, but he
published his refusal in the shape of an insolent
interview in the public press, in which he
announced that he would not be surprised if
the C.J. asked him to furnish his private house.
This was mere blatant insult. The last act in
this lamentable business was the Attorney-
General’s refusal t) provide the necessary ex-
penses to allow of Mr. Justice O’Connor’s going
to Melbourne, to try an important case. Strange
to say, Mr. Symon has not yet taken the public
into his confidence as to his reasons for this
action, and, if rumor speaks truly, those
reasons don’t quite commend themselves to
the other members of the Government.
But it is not hard to discern that his
reasons are to be found in his publicly
announced opinion that the Judges’ travelling ex-
penses should be computed from Melbourne, as
the seat of government. The principle upon
which that opinion is based may be perfectly
sound ; but its sudden application to the present
Justices is wholly indefensible. As everyone
knows, they were appointed without any such
condition, and the practice hitherto has been to
pay their expenses from their place of residence.
One or even two years’ notice of such a change
would be nothing more than fair to men
who, no doubt, have entered into private
engagements on the assumption that the
conditions of their appointment would be
honorably observed. In any case, the only result
of the change must be to increase the total amount
of travelling expenses, because the Court sits a
good deal longer in Sydney than in Melbourne,
and, under Mr. Symon’s new plan, the Justices
will, of course, be entitled to draw travelling
expenses during the Sydney sittings. These are
the squalid details of Mr. Symon’s recent relations
with the High Court. No one knows better than
Mr. Symon the imperative necessity—in the public
interests, and apart from any considerations of
fairness to the Justices—of maintaining the dignity
of the Court, and strengthening public confidence
in its members. No one has done more than Mr.
Symon to injure both. It remains to be seen how
the Government will deal with Mr. Symon, and,
if he is allowed to remain a Minister, how the
House will deal with the Government. It may be
that the Reid Government can’t afford to lose Mr.
Symon. But the House could easily afford to lose
the Reid Government.
*
Remember S’Africa!
The Chamber of Mines in Westralia tells the
Tariff Commission that “free” machinery is
wanted to make Australia prosperous. It pre-
tends to be wholly concerned about reducing the
cost of mining, but the members are much more con-
cerned in adding to their mining profits, the profits
derived from selling oversea machinery to Aus-
tralian mines. The “ manifesto,” which has been
sent to the commission, shows in every line that it
comes from people who have no permanent in-
terests in Australia. It reeks of the old spirit of
the gold digger who came to the country in the
fifties to make his pile and go “home” again.
When the mines give out, the Chamber of Mines
people will have no interests here, and, naturally,
they desire to build-up industries where their per-
manent interests are. They want to pay no part
of the cost of the permanent settlement of this
country. They do not want to return any part of
the Australian gold yield for the fructification of
Australia. They simply want to squeeze out of
Australia every available penny, and then go back
to the American and English machinery firms and
find them prosperous. What happens then to the
country in which they spent a few years does not
matter to them. But it matters to Australia. The
one virtue of the demand which the Westralian
Chamber has sent the Commission is that it is
frank. The wretched 12i per cent., which is no
more than a primage duty, is pointed to as some-
thing which is seriously handicapping the mining
industry and “ reducing profits.” This is a bald
statement that the whole of the interests of the
Chamber of Mines are abroad, and the statement
is as true as it is bald. The 12£ per cent, duty is
looked upon as a tax on the profits of the firms
that are as much machine-importing firms as they
are mining-management firms. Such people’s
desire for free imports is quite natural. They
have no interest in buying Australian - made
machinery, for there is no profit in it for them.
The buying of Australian machinery means per-
manent settlement in Australia, and work for
men otherwise than in the mines. It will
advantage the country from end to end,
but it will not advantage the foreigner. Hap-
pily, however, the Australian Tariff Commis-
sion is concerned in looking after the interests of
Australians, and not foreigners. Later on the
Commission will receive a memorial from the
Victorian Chamber of Mines. A committee is
rounding up a list of the free goods which the
Victorian Chamber wants. There is Mr. So-and-
So, and Mr. Such-And-Such, and, bringing up
the rear, “Mr. D. P. Mitchell.” This name
invariably winds up the list of special committees
of the Victorian Chamber of Mines. It would be
more honest but, perhaps, not so wise, to end up
the list with “and Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and
C 0.,” for Mr. D. P. Mitchell is an expert for
Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co. ; and the tariff
which is likely to suit Messrs. Bewick, Moreing
and Co. is not the tariff which is going to suit this
country. In America, which is Mr. Mitchell’s own
country, the representative of a foreign engineering
firm would scarcely put himself on a committee
to approach a Tariff Commission to explain to it
what was needed to make his firm rich. That
would be a dangerous proceeding there, because
Yankee patriotism has a deeper root than has
Australian patriotism. The proper answer of the
Tariff Commission to the mining people in the
West, ,and in Victoria, would be that the
machinery duties will go up to the level of those
of the country their managers come from, and to
which they intend to go back .when the mines
run out; so that, side by side with the worked
out mines, permanent industries will be in exist-
ence. So far as Eastern Australia is concerned,
the 12i per cent, duty is no burden to the mines,
because, except in electrical machinery, the Eastern
mines do not worry about the foreigner’s goods.
No Victorian mines, quartz or alluvial, buy much
foreign stuff. Bendigo and Ballarat mines find
all their wants well supplied by the foundries
next door, because when the mines were brisk, as
they are now in the West, the Victorians built up
their foundries with a tariff which enabled them
to stand. There are no Freetraders, even in
machinery, in the Victorian mining districts (not
even amongst the directors, who are just as keen
for profits as the Westralian “ mining engineers ”).
The Victorians have proved that it is better
in every way to have their machinery coming from
next door than it is to bring it from oversea.
An ounce of gold is of much more value to
a country when part of it goes to pay for machinery
made in the country, and where the area of the
wages-sheet is spread beyond the men in the mine
to the men in the factories which supply the
machinery of the mine. What these puppet
chambers are asking is that every ounce of gold
shall have a part ear-marked for the wages-sheets
of men in foreign factories, and a good part for
the middlemen’s profits. The whole business
should open the eyes of the Labor-Freetraders to
the dangers ahead. For if these two un- Australian
chambers, in the interests of profits which go to
the foreigner, can squeeze out the Australian
workmen from the factories, their next move will
be, in the same interests, to squeeze out the Aus-
tralian workmen from the mines. Remember
S’Africa!
♦
The “ Parochial ” Australian.
‘‘John Calvin” writes
“ One feels the difference from the first, but only after
some days understands that it is a reflection of the wider
world in which the Transvaal moves.” —B. R. Wise (B.
20,4/’O5).
There is blessedness in community of feeling- 1 When I
went from Australia to S. America it was as though I had
emerged from a dim, oil-lamp-lit tunnel into clear sun-
shine and broad fields. The world grew wide at a bound.
More than wide, it became peopled, and with the living
and the mighty. Solitude changed to community. Ger-
many, Russia, all Europe, became as important as Hay
and Narandera, as great as Sydney.' Instead of there
being- but a one-finger iteration of a single note, there was
a whole orchestra and a world full of the sound of it.
The baggage man on the wharf where I landed, the porter
at the hotel, knew Europe—knew the world indeed—as I
knew my local town.
Years after, when I returned to Australia, the stupend-
ous ignorance of the Australian (native-born, or adopted)
as to the meaning of “ proportion ” among nations struck
me as so great as to be ludicrous, even though pathetic
in its blindness. And it was amusing to note that the
fact that foreign immigrants knew more of Australia
than Australians of their status knew of foreign countries,
was taken as a tribute to Australia (“it showed how
important she was !”) instead of it being the other way—
i.e., a tribute to foreign intelligence and education.
In the S. American Republics (to speak only of what I
know) one looks at Europe eye to eye. And, coming back
here, the effect is as though one looked from afar, through
the wrong end of a telescope, and saw the mental vision
one carried home (for one certainly does not get it here)
reduced and reduced till its parts became infinitesimal.
One’s impression is that to Australia, Australia is the
front line of the universe, and Europe a back-yard where
a few half-taught kids are grubbing in the dust, dirtying
their pinnies and squabbling over a game of marbles for
“keeps.”
Some day Australia will suddenly wake up and find
that the world would have got along even had she never
been discovered, that Europe sets small value on her in
national partnerships, that even in trade she. neither
makes nor mars markets, and that she will be lucky if
she is not sooner or later thrown as a sop to Asia. (What
does Australia weigh as against one of England’s greater
national alliances?) And if she is, what of her ? and
where will she be? Self-esteem is a poor armor-plate
when the other man holds guns.
Indeed, one might say of Australia generally—“ They
see no nation great, because they themselves have never,
as a nation, been sought by the great, and don’t know
what it means. The course of their life has run through
sluggish channels, and they know not the meeting of
oceans ; and because knowledge has not been forced upon
them they refuse to try to gain it.”
To the average Australian, England is the little place
“on the edge of the world”—a place important chiefly
because Australia allows her to buy Australian wool.
Fortunately for England, her greatness does not depend
on Australia, and she would not be conscious of much
loss if Japan swallowed the island continent to-morrow.
And, indeed, of the two, it is not unlikely that, in view
of such a possible contingency, Russia would prove the
better friend to Australia than England. Who knows,
insignificant Europe may yet some day hand her over to
Russia as a naval base, and a Russian outpost to keep her
white 1 England would consider an alliance with Russia
cheap at the price ; and what could mighty Australia do ?
Wriggle and submit, and learn that the world is outside
Australia.
Which calls for some comment. B. R. Wise
said that, compared with the S’African, the Aus-
tralian 'press is parochial. “John Calvin”
stretches the criticism to a declaration that Aus-
tralians are parochial ; that Australia is a very
small spot indeed; and that England, mighty
England, may one day throw Australia as a sop
to some Asiatic power. Probably no one would
be more flabbergasted than B. R. Wise to find
approval of his statement mixed with such a
widening of its application. The Bulletin
would fain remark :
(1) That the Australian character is not, as a rule,
egotistic. The Australian is naturally rather cynical in
his attitude to national high-faluting. A much smaller
proportion of Australians scream about their country than
do Britishers or Americans. Analyse Australian skite, and
you’ll mostly find in it a saving savor of humor. The
bushman who skites grins at himself as he does so. He
doesn’t humbug himself. As a matter of fact the Aus-
tralian thinks too much of England and too little of
Australia. As to “ parochialism,” one would willingly
see a little more devotion to Australia.
(2) Australia’s interests are to be best served for the
present by Australians keeping “ their eyes in the boat.”
There’s such a lot to be done locally, that worrying about
the Hungarian constitution isn’t advisable.
(3) Taking them in the mass, the Australian people
probably know as much about the world’s affairs as any
other people—in spite of the handicap of a poor cable
news supply. In England there is a big proportion of
Hodge which doesn’t know that, say, Switzerland exists.
In Australia there is no Hodge. Would “John Calvin’
compare our bush-workers as to intelligent interest in
the world’s affairs with the S’American ranch-boys?
(4) If Australia did get up on its hind-legs now and
again to skite a bit, there would be some justification for
it. A very small speck of the world is this land on a
population basis. But in Art (no need to trot out the
names), Science (our machines arid our researches begin
to sprinkle the earth), Literature (a few respectable
names), Statesmanship (the Australian ballot, the Torrens
Title, and the Australian Federal Constitution),
Athletics (let all other nations bow diminished heads) —
Australia has shown itself no slouch of a country.
5. As for England giving Australia away with a pound
of tea to Asia, wait until that is tried 1 Australia has
been a feckless, improvident, borrowing, fr.eetrade, gun-
importing—instead of gun-making—land. But it is
getting out of that, and, maybe, could fight a little at a
pinch.
The above, a little . seeming-contradictory in
places, but, hone the less, all true, The Bulletin
wrote with avidity and publishes with reluctance.
For it seems somewhat close to “skite.” But we
are tired, profoundly tired, of all this depreciation
of Australia, this patronising of our little patch by
the superior person who has Been to London ahd
knows “ the larger life.” The kookaburra is due
for a little scream.
♦
A Landed Gentry.
Too much opposition cannot be given to the
attempt being made, here and there in Australia,
to form a “ landed gentry.” A typical example of
the attempt is in the Western District of Victoria.
There the Manifolds, the Macarthurs, the
Mackinnons, and the Blacks hold huge estates
of land, practically the whole of which is let to
tenant farmers. Quite .apart from the economic
side of the position—which is totally bad—there is
asocial aspect in which there is just as much to
condemn. Tho families named, togethor with a
few others who grow sheep on their own account,
form an exclusive Pure Merino coterie, - which is
as much alien to Australian conditions as a medi-
ffival knight in armor would be. 10 veil their re-
creations have the Pure Merino touch. The chief
frolic is polo, which is par excellence the sport of
the wealthy, while their spare time is given to golf.
At present the rank and file of the district take
little or no notice of the freaks of this clique ;
but the situation ' is ripening to the point
when the tenants and the laborers will be touching
their hats to the squire, voting as he directs, and
imitating generally that bad old English system
which our noveaux riches would dearly love to
acclimatise toAustralia, to take rank with the briar,
the rabbit, and the fox as pernicious nuisances.
And at the bottom of it all is, as usual, the land
question. A man who has an income of £lO,OOO
per annum from mines, factories, or investments,
has not a fraction of the influence that a man who
draws his £lO,OOO from tenants exerts. “Land-
lord ”is an admirable term. The man who is lord
of the land is truly lord of the people on the land.
The last English mail brought reports of a discus-
sion in the House of Commons over a case in
which a well-known English landlord got rid of
one of his best tenants—a man who was widely
popular, and who was one of the best farmers in
the country side —because he ventured to publicly
express an opinion different to him on a political
question. That sort of thing is inevitable under
the tenant system so long as human nature is what
it is. It is the business and duty of the electors
of the Commonwealth to see that landlordism is
made impossible on our continent. That can only
be done by effective land-taxation making vast
estates impossible.
A Reluctant Testimonial.
From the report of the N.S.W. Public Service
Board, which says anything in favor of Arbitration
with great difficulty :
The board, without trenching upon any political
question, has to express its satisfaction (which any
humane person will share in) at the satisfactory result of
the appeal to Arbitration in connectiOrt with the increase
of wages to the larger number of girls employed in these
clothing- factories. The ev,deuce of Miss Duncan and Sub-
inspector Tindall sufficiently emphasises the: terrible evil
which resulted from sweating before the. advent of the
Arbitration Court. Whatever opinion may .be held with
respect to the operations of that tribunal, one and all Who
have the interests of the workers at heart must rejoice in
the better, conditions brought about —&c.
The “ whatever opinion may be held ” is curious
and characteristic. The Arbitration Court has
prevented abominable sweating it has put an end
to a “terrible evil”; everybody inust rejoice in
the good work it has done; and yet it isn’t quite
the thing to stick up for it !
♦ - 'A,."
The Westralian Drift
The plaint of a Perth correspondent
Politics in the Gold State, never remarkable for lofti-
ness or wisdom, have got below the plane of a Vic. shire
council. Parliament is a dead level of mediocrity,
government is more than ever a matter of spending
money uselessly—appointing “royal commissions,” and
creating billets. The Daglisii Ministry, raised to office by
the strongest burst of popular feeling Groperland has
seen, has turned out to be almost the weakest team
on record. Its record is a melancholy gloom of
ineptitude, extravagance, and subserviency to the
Groper permanent heads, in which the honest graft and
business-like practice of Johnson are the only gleams.
Johnson, by a small experiment in pipe-manufacture,
found a way to save thousands that formerly went to
bulge contractors’ pockets. This is practically the one
credit item against a staggering catalogue of debits.
Westralia’s boom stopped long ago, hut the boom pro-
digality has increased. There never was an epoch so pro-
fuse with political picnics and commissions. Since Parlia-
ment was prorogued, four months ago, Daglish has barely
been able to give a fortnight to his Department—cause,
picnics. Hastik, Holman and Drew have been little
better. Yet “ reforms to be effected in administration ”
was the excuse by which Govt, got safely into recess.
As a financier Daglish seems to be a mixture of Micawfer
and Anglesey. March revenue included an item, £22,800
for Cue water supply ; he explained that it represented
capital sunk in the scheme, and held as a liability against
the local board. The work was built with loan money!
Things like that come naturally in a country which pro-
duced £650,000 worth of gold last month, and got £lO,OOO of
it back in revenue, and thought itself lucky to get that
much. Unification seems to be the only alternative to
ultimate State bankruptcy ; it may arrive as the outcome
of bankruptcy.
The Child Slaves of the Cow.
In his annual report 'V ic. State school inspector
John Byatt deplores again the disgraceful sweat-
ing of the children in the dairying districts. He
pleads with the parents for the children with
strenuous earnestness. Byatt truly points out
that the free education provided by the State is
rendered valueless to a percentage of young citizens
because they are not allowed to utilise it to the
full during the educational years. Not only tlo
these boys and girls leave school backward, hancli-
capped, dwarfed-in-mind; but, from that very
reason, they are incompetent to attend the agri-
cultural classes and colleges, which the State
has provided, to turn them into scientific,
competent farmers. The State has been
trying for years, and is still trying, to
build up an agricultural population equal to that
of up-to-date nations; anil much of its labor
is brought to naught by the very persons who
ought to aid it most. Probably this is at the
bottom of the Tory farmer’s loudly-brayed abjec-
tion to Socialistic legislation—he knows that the
same legislation that has given him agricultural
experts, lectures, irrigation, &c., has also stipu-
lated that the child under 14 shall not work in the
city factory, that the woman and the child
between 14 and 21 shall not toil more than a
stipulated number of hours a week, and that the
toil shall be done under fairly healthy conditions.
He knows that a Factories Act that applied to
the country as well as the city would put a stop to
his child sweating.
The Elect.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
While still the old world’s troubles did not cease —
Poor world, with sophistries all soaked and
crammed !
They marched across the callous centuries,
The excellent processions of the Damned.
These never bent a craven knee to fear,
Nor paid base homage to a gilded lie,
Nor dallied, while the chosen path shone clear,
With vile pretence or smug’ hypocrisy.
They never gave their birthright for a gaud,
Nor sold their fellows for a wanton’s smile,
Nor decked the hateful body of sleek fraud
With trophies torn from helplessness by guile.
All steadfastly into the strife they went—
A little band against the hosts of Wrong;
Amid the fray, though bleeding and sore spent.
They held their splendid heads up and were
strong.
’Mid smoke of tortures hideous and black,
They kept the faith, to their own virtues blind ;
And, smiling on the gibbet and the rack,
Smote off the fetters that enslaved mankind.
By Superstition’s clamors undeterred,
They cried defiance with their latest breath.
Their’s was the cleaving stroke, the piercing word ;
Faithful they were and fearless, to the death.
And now, their battered bodies cold and dead,
Grey dust beneath the scarce remembering sod,
Their souls enjoy (for this their bodies bled)
The kiss of comfort from their brother God.
TAS.
FBANK MOUTON.


1 OF 2
Events is Sure—Death or Old Age.
A 5 Per Cent. Debenture Bond (with 5 per cent, interest guaranteed for 20 years) in the
Equitable will make provision against both.
It will protect your family, if you die—or yourself, if you live.
NOW is the time to make such provision—
To-Morrow may be too late.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Please send me particulars of an Equitable
6 per cent. Debenture Bond.
1 was born ;
Name _
Address
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s . “The Cingalee.”
Theatre Royal. “If I Were King” and “The
Eternal City.”
Tiv01i....... Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “ The Rose of the Riviera.”
Bslmore Park Fitzgeralds’Circus.
Palace “A Female Swindler.”
Qjeen’s Hall Abomah.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Sunday.”
Her Majesty’s “The Way to Kenmare."
Theatre Royal “The Best of Friends."
OrERA House ... Rickards’ Variety Co.
But it was past 11.30, anyway ; and the
new musical comedy, or comic opera, or whatever
it is, began at Her Majesty’s at 7.45 sharp. Late-
comers had trouble enough to find a perch in the
crowded house, and after battling for it they were
going to have their trouble’s worth; so most
things had to be more or less repeated. Two
‘ ‘ sets ” only ; and both highly pictorial. The
one an idealised tea-garden ; the other an idealised
Oriental palace—the one where the English
Johnny, who isn’t a bad sort, and has the best
songs, finds his IS anoya; the other where
Boobhamba, in fearsome rig, takes the lady
to share the joy of his company with a
large number of other wives. George Lauri
hasn’t come into the picture yet. He is Cham-
buddy Ram, a wonderful Baboo lawyer, who has
played “gent one” tricks with Nanoya and her
property, likewise with a pearl of great price.
He wanders in and out without much cause, but
always with great effect. It is really a capital
character study, this of Chambuddy, in Lauri’s
h mds, though most of the humor is of the cheap
but popular sort, which hangs upon the Baboo’s
notorious capacity for distorting the English
language—or any other but his own, for that
matter; “in vino sanitas,” he tells the pep-
pery little judge who has had to deal with
some of his “gent one” errors. And besides
the English Johnny and Nanoya and Boobhamba
and the Baboo fun-maker there are other Johnnies,
and Rose Musgrove (who has made the acquaint-
ance of the Baboo in England, where he passed
for a prince, and now is in Ceylon to follow up
the acquaintance with inquiries), and more tea-
girls, and other Johnnies (and more tea-girls), and
an English girl or two who are there because the
Johnnies are.
* * * *
The music is light; and, except here and
there, it doesn’t appear to have any close intimacy
w. th the words. But Boobhamba’s opening song—
in Bantock’s best imperturbable manner—might
have walked out of the Gilbert and Sullivan den
in its best days. Miss Margaret Thomas made
her first appearance off the concert platform,
and sang three “kissy” songs always well, but
with most success when a plaintive note was
called for. Her Nanoya was a shy, clinging
little creature; and one wondered sometimes
whether she oughtn’t to have been a laughing
romp—the leader of the four romps, who, during
the proceedings, unanimously decide that, as
another of the planter Johnnies can’t decide
between them, they will share him. This other
planter Johnny also made a first Sydney appear-
ance—Mr. J. Doran, a light tenor, in a light
part j he has one good solo, and with Miss
Bassian makes what is that lady’s best contri-
bution, the dainty duet, “ You and I, land You.”
Otherwise Miss Bassian hasn’t songs whose
memory lives. Haigh Jackson’s numbers, on the
whole the best of the bunch, were robustly
delivered; and altogether, except for a slip in
Fred Leslie’s daring “Devil’s Dance,” the first-
night performance was remarkably smooth. A
long and successful run is merited no less by the
exceptional strength of the cast than by the all-
round quality of the piece.
* Aj>- ,<j»
Revival of “ If I Were King,” at Sydney
Royal, on Saturday, showed that play in a very
much better light than before. In his historical
melodrama, M‘Carthy did not waste much
thought on dramatic art, but he used up a lot
of artfulness, and the result is a story in which
every trick is obvious, and every character stagey,
but which is always bright and sometimes almost
poetic. Such is good for the public, which does
not want to think, but to digest in the theatre.
The first Sydney representation was given a
wooden and stiff character by the lead-
ing actor making of Villon a Yankee at the
Court of King Louis. This revival is
warm and full of color, giving Mr. Julius Knight
exactly the sort of part that suits him. Unfor-
tunately, on the first night, the effects of illness
showed perceptibly in the last act, where the
actor occasionally lost his lines ; but that notwith-
standing, it was a fine performance, gay and
natural in its Bohemian opening, and not too
extravagant in its subsequent heroic passages.
Subsequently Mr. Knight’s indisposition became
more serious, and he is not likely to act during
the current week. Miss Maud Jeffries—who
also on the first night was handicapped by
illness—well matched Villon as Catherine. She
was noticeably brighter than she has seemed
of late, and gave equal value to the pride
and tenderness of her part, making always a
decorative figure. In a cast almost wholly
new to Sydney in this piece Mr. Arthur Wontner,
as King Louis, and Miss Florence Hamer, as
Huguette, were noticeable; as also were Mr.
Harry Plimmer and Mr. Frank Stirling. The
picturesque ruffians who vagabond in the train of
Villon are also well acted. Setting of the romance
is excellent, and one of the acts is brightened by
a very effective ballet. The piece is to be with-
drawn on Saturday, though it is much better stuff
than “The Royal Divorce,” which was given a
three weeks’ run.
* * *
The Rickards show at the Tivoli is the best
for months past. “Little Tich ” has brought
back his burnished performance (and the chief
merit of it all is that it doesn’t seem burnished),
and adds some new songs to the whimsical old
capers. And though Tich could carry a show on
his own brief legs, Max Milian, an equilibrist of
the muscular type, has arrived with a turn that
has several new things in it; Miss Pierce continues
her clever “impressions,” which would be better
appreciated if her originals were friends of _ ours;
W. F. Hawtrey and Miss Winifred Austin are
giving variety to the feast in the shape of a thin
little sketch ; Nat Travers is coster-dittying; and
eight packed houses a week are paying manager
Rickards’ fare to Europe, where he is about to
hunt up new goods.
* X i lf *
At the Criterion a new piece, * ‘ Bill
Adams of Waterloo,” is in rehearsal: meanwhile
“The Rose of Riviera” will replace “The Skirt
Dancer ” on Saturday.
* * #
Next Saturday, at the Palace, “ A Female
Swindler ” will walk over the tracks of the girl
demented by drink, and chase Barbara Wade off
those Cross Roads strewn with broken bottles and
good intentions.
Jessie Maclachlan, who has just completed
a series of concerts at the Sydney Town Hall, ex-
cels most in declamatory efforts regarding doughty
deeds of the Scot. She has also considerable
power in summoning up romantic recollections of
the old country in the minds of sons of the
heather hills, and she breathes the language of
love in the softest cooing notes. Her voice
is a dramatic soprano of rich volume and ring-
ing resonance, and it has as much endurance
as that of Nance O’Neill in the curse scene
from “Leah.” Else she could not go through a
long programme with a generous expenditure of
chest notes, and wind up with “Rule Britannia”
in such clamorous tones. It is only when she
attempts “The Last Rose of Summer” and
“Home, Sweet Home” that she fails somewhat
in the finer phases of vocalisation. She is, how-
ever, richly humorous in the Irish songs of her
repertoire, notably “ Barney O’Hea.” Take her
all in all, she is a fine interpreter of the
quaint and expressive music of her coun-
try, which may well be proud of her.
A little less of her long-haired countryman on the
’cello would be an improvement to her pro-
grammes. Mr. M‘Linden has excellent execution,
without any superfluity of tone. Robert
Buchanan, the husband of the Highland
songster, is among the best of accompanists
who have visited Australia, doing much extem-
poraneous work without the aid of any music.
From an artistic point of view, the so-called
organ and piano duets, which opened each
part of the entetainment, were monstrosities.
They were organ solos with desperately futile
attempts on the part of the piano to
be heard occasionally. The duet arrangement
has, however, been necessary to comply with one
of the silly rules of the City Council, which pros-
scribes the organ being heard alone except at
municipal recitals.
# # * #
In the song, “Lochlomon’,’’ the lines,
“You tak’ the high road and I’ll tak’ the low
road, but I’ll be in Scotland afore ye,” have usually
been sung in Sydney as if a lover were having
a merry jest with his lass. But Miss Jessie
Maclachlan sings them differently, and ex-
plains that the other “reading” is erroneous.
The words were spoken to his sweetheart by a
Highland soldier, confined in Carlisle Castle in
1745, the night before his execution. His road
lay along the valley of the shadow, but his spirit
would be in Scotland.
* « #
One of the best performances ever'
essayed by- the Sydney Philharmonic was the
first act of “Lohengrin.” Signor Hazon’s
orchestra played like a company of angels in the
prelude, and afterwards with fine dramatic color
m accompanying the voices. Principals and chorus
got well into the Wagnerian atmosphere, and,
despite the absence of stage action and scenery,
the mystery surrounding the strange disappear-
MRS. E. H. MAAS (Miss Noni Rickards).
Photo, by the Crown Studios, Sydney.
ance of Gottfried and the amazement attending
the well-timed and miraculous visit of Lohengrin
to do battle for the basely maligned Elsa were
well indicated.
#* * *
Fitzgerald Bros, have found out that the
real interest of their show for the athletic-loving
Australians lies in the exhibitions of ju-jitsu and
Sumo wrestling. We have had one physical
development boom, and now there is a craze for
“defensive systems” There are some Roman
rings performers at the circus who are worth
going far to see, but the scrap-loving audiences
regard all the rest of the show as mere pickings
—the real attraction’s in the ju-jitsu and the
wrestling.
*# * *
As far as Melbourne is concerned, the
local talent for musical composition makes little
or no pretence of Australian feeling. It is just as
frankly German in sentiment as the local god of
music, Marshall Hall. One can forgive young
August Siede for being personally more Teutonic
than Australian, but why should he be about to
introduce a new “symphonic poem” under the
foreign title of “Siegreiche Liebe” instead of
“Triumphant Love”? Are the Australian sup-
porters and encouragers of local music manufac-
ture expected to think in the harsh language of
Beethoven ? What excuse is there for Fred.
Glutsam, the clever, painstaking conductor of the
Orpheus Society ? Olutsam is doing good work
with the Orpheusians. Their choral and orchestral
concert, at Melb. Town Hall last week, was a capital
entertainment, and a sufficiently melodious little
item in the programme was a song composed by
Olutsam, and warbled by a handsome Melbourne
girl, Miss Yetta Davis. The lady was quite
capable of doing justice to a song written in
Australian language, but owing to her lack of
coughsome German accent and method, she made
nothing of conductor Clutsam’s composition. It
was written in German, and entitled “Der
.Tiingling.” This is the very insanity of pedantry.
A young Australian composer setting German
words —presumably his own words —to music to
be uttered by an Australian girl who couldn’t
impart any German character or enunciation to
the lines ! A few weak-minded snobs applauded
the pretentious piece of foolishness (and the
highly superior critics for the daily papers stated,
of course, that Clutsam’s song was beautiful
beyond measure), but even these Chosen Souls
were less stirred than they would have been by,
say, a Greek ballad—words by Professor Tuoker,
music composed by Professor Marshall Hall in an
early-Athenian mood.|
** # *
Andrew Mack’s new drama, at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.), proves its claim to originality
insofar that the hero is a future mimber oL-lhe
modern House of Peers instead of a gallant ribel
arrmed wid a blunderbuss. “ The Way to Ken-
mare” is an American-Irish drama written by
Edward Rose, and its characters, from the hero
downwards, have the same little weakness as Ire-
land’s national poet of yore. They dearly love a
lord, begorrah ! And the lord they love is the
Earl of Kenmare, an Irish-English combination
peer, whose ancestor, by the name of Browne,
proclaimed himself “ Loyal in everything.” If a
dramatist borrows a title from the holy book of
British aristocracy he invites this reverent atten-
tion to detail in an otherwise flippant newspaper
notice.
# * * *
The future Earl, it seems, called himself
Dan Maguire when he became youthfully engaged
to a New York girl, and went to Colorado, or
somewhere, to earn his own gold-mine. After a
long lapse of years, he returns to claim his girl,
but the gas goes out, and the matured damsel
doesn’t recognise her Daniel in the dark. Also,
she is disposed to marry the villain, Clement
Fairley—the villain sounds very English—who
hopes to secure the Earldom in the absence of
registered proofs of Maguire’s legitimacy. So
Maguire determines to discover the miss-
ing paper and euchre the villain, where-
upon the characters mostly quit New York and
go to Kenmare in Ireland. Maguire, meanwhile,
disguises himself as a casual Larry, a bhroth of a
bhoy in a brown velvet suit, and the New York
girl loves him for his Larryness, not knowing him
for the Dan she didn’t see when the light went out.
A chaotic sensation scene, embellished by thunder-
storm effects, results in Larry capturing the re-
gister of his deceased father’s marriage, which
puts him in the way to reappear in the fourth act
as the Earl’s lawful heir, what time the loyal
tinantry outside the castle are jubilating over the
discovery of their future Lord. There is a
question as to whether the villain Clement shall
be thrown out of window and devoured by the
tinantry, but at this crisis a girl whom he had
betrayed comes along and leads him off the
premises in safety. The villain, when last seen,
is a broken-up penitent deeply indebted to his
lady victim. Then the good girl from New York
learns that the future Earl is identical with Larry
who was none other than Dan Maguire, and the
rose tipt in her dharling cheek is as lovely as a
sunset glow on the tip of an angel’s wing, and her
cherry lips are the softest that ever sweetened the
very soul of Dan, and the sparkle in her eyes—
but this is mere blarney.
* * * *
Andrew Mack in this drama, as in “Tom
Moore,” performs three-quarters of the work,
and does it very well. Ho is the same easy,
breezy actor, giving an air of naturalness to very
artificial situations, and singing sweetly by the
way. The character of the plot seems of little
consequence whilst Mack strolls around, and
Mack is rarely off the stage. Brandt repeats
himself passably as 1 villain. Miss Annie
Mack Berlein, who played Mrs. Malone in the
previous show, plays a humorous Mrs. Maloney in
this. Miss Lovett is the heroine; the support in
other places is of fairly equal quality, and the
mounting good enough.
** # *
At the Princess’s the wife of Justinian has
ceased to make the lion roar and roar again.
“ Theodora ” was to be replaced by “ Camille” on
Wednesday of this week. Next Saturday (13th)
the American drama, “Sunday,” will have a
revival, with Miss Tittell Brune in the part which
brought her to Australian light. “ Sunday ”is to
run for a week, after which some more short revi-
vals, followed by “The Second Mrs. Tanquer&y”
at the end of the month.
*# * *
Brunton’s excellent scene paintings and the
somewhat less admirable drama associated there-
with are now in their third week at Melbourne
Royal. Bland Holt and eo. could very well have
abstained from further reference to the Boer war,
but in that case Walter Baker would have missed
a fine opportunity to rally round the Empire in
the hour of need, and Melbourne might never
have realised the full force of Baker’s valor when
roused. It is a great moment when the hot Jingo
blood rushes to his lordship’s head and the brass
band begins to play.
*# * *
A number of new turns are happening
at the Opera House since Tich moved on to
Sydney. The four Figaros, who amount to only a
couple of Figaros, as a rule, are dancing and sing-
ing in various styles and costumes—a clever and
artistic performance of its type. Harry Taft, an
occasionally droll comedian who whistles with
great violence, is another recent arrival; also the
Magic Kettle is to hand. The Kettle, like the
scientific hanky-panky _ act of the Salambos, is
more surprising than interesting to the public.
The telephone is an equally remarkable fact, but
it is not an entertainment, except when some-
body’s best girl is talking tenderly to the wrong
man. Leo Dryden, the tuneful young man who
Bings “ seenas, has seen fit to introduce a new
scena. Moreover, Carden Wilson is back.
** # #
John” Tait has issued warning notes re
the artists who will presently appear in Mel-
bourne under his direction. Miss Carrie Haase,
most interesting of reciters, will appear at the
Athenaeum Hall on May 23 and 25; the Watkin
Mills Quartet Party starts at the Town Hall on
the 27th ; Miss Jessie Maclachlan happens on June
3rd; and Hugo Heermann, the violinist, comes
along a fortnight later.
-* * * *
The Anderson Co. is playing its third and
last week at Adelaide Royal, with a nautical
sensation, “My Jack.” Tom Cannam and Frank
Crossley are a capable pair of fun-makers. The
heroes and villains, male and female, are all fair,
but this writer fancies there is a finer actress
playing small parts than either of the two who
take the lead. The Ice Rink is enlivening itself
with races and fancy-dress carnivals, but the Ex-
hibition concerts are over, and the Tivoli remains
obstinately closed.
In the morning tea, in the evening tea, and tea in
the afternoon,
And a cuddle and a kiss, for each coffee-colored
miss, a kiss and a cup and a spoon ;
Young English Johnny (title in the distance),
mooning and growing tea.
Sighs and smiles, and a tea-girl’s wiles—that’s the
story of “ The Cingalee. ”
Skies of tropic blue, happiness for two, doesn’t
matter what the old folks say ;
“ Coolie she may be, what is that to me?” (Wait
till the coolie’s old and grey.)
A cup and a kiss, and only dreams of bliss, with
the Johnny’s bride that is to be—
You can almost hear the bells, that a wedding
tells, in the story of “ The Cingalee.”
But a gorgeous Chedder churl, claims the Johnny’s
girl—she was wedded to him, he says, at four;
He has ten or so already, not enough to keep him
steady, and he hankers for one (or twenty)
more;
And the British law, with a helmet and a haw,
say the case is clear as can be ;
So the harem opens wide to the Johnny’s little
bride —in the tale of “ The Cingalee.”
But of course he didn’t know that the sighing
lady’s beau was a boy of the Bulldog breed.
And he never took a rest till he hugged her to his
breast, this girl that the Johnny freed.
Then they laughed ha ! ha ! at Boobhamba, the
Chedder Bhoy of high degree—
They’re married now, no doubt, but they had to
leave this out from the story of “The Cin-
galee.”
The Wild Cat Column.
The banks, except the three of Queensland, have
brought down their deposit rates, as it was clear they
would, in view of the accumulation of capital in this coun-
try, where, our anti-Socialistic friends are always telling
us, capital is too much afraid to stay. The rates for new
deposits are now 2 per cent, for six months, 3 per cent, for
12 months, and 3£ per cent, for two years. Two things
have brought about this reduction. First, the anti-
Socialistic nonsense of the Stinking Fish crowd of political
adventurers. This chattering crowd, which is mostly the
old Freetrade rump, has succeeded in inspiring so
much want of confidence in Australia that industry
is not as active as it would be if they were dead,
or dumb, and there is consequently a restricted
demand for advances. And, in the second place,
a couple of unusually good seasons have put us in funds
to a rather greater extent than usual, while Governments
have eased off a bit in the matter of sinking those funds
in a dry ditch at Dog Hollow, and other such permanent
and reproductive undertakings.
Nothing has been arranged with regard to rates
for advances and discounts; but they will have to
accommodate themselves to the new’ conditions. For
the moment the banks will, of course, tell the impor-
tunate customer that they are not gaining anything by
-the reduction, since it applies only to new deposits;
but though this will be true enough for a few
weeks, the average will soon move down. When
deposit rates were put up \ per cent, in 1903
(1 per cent, for two years deposits in some cases),
the rates for advances generally moved up 1 or 2 per cent.,
and the banks’ profits fattened accordingly. Chances are
that advance rates won’t come down as promptly, and to
the same degree, as they went up ; but the tendency of
bank profits will, nevertheless, probably be downward—
until this anti-Sooialistic nonsense of the Stinking Fish
crowd is dropped, the tariff is raised, confidence in Aus-
tralia is increased, and industry is more active. Mean-
time there will probably be a brisker demand for the more
gilt-edged securities.
Figures that follow are not too cheerful. The
further the States get from the boom harvest of 1903-4
the worse the comparisons. Revenues of Victoria,
Queensland, and Tasmania for April, 1905, were all far
below those of April, 1904; and N.S.W. only shows an
increase through a remarkable spring in the stamp
duties. For the first half of the current financial year
Vic. revenue w’as £291,984 ahead of that for the corres-
ponding half of 1903-4; now the excess is down to
£85,540. Thus in the past four months, compared with
the same months of previous year, Bent’s revenue has
dropped £2o6,44o—w’hich can’t be too comfortable for Bent.
In N.S.W. in the same four months revenue has shrunk
£lls,Bl9—which can’t be too comfortable for Carruthers.
Current year’s total figures will probably be fairly respect-
able ; but if the latter part of this year show’s up badly,
what about next year, which will probably be merely a
continuation of these latter months? A financial reform
Premier needn’t be much of a reformer to show decent
results in a year of bumper harvests and big mineral out-
puts ; and that is all the experience these two have had
so far.
Figures for the past month (S. Australia fur-
nishes only quarterly returns)
State Revenues for April.
April, 1904. April, 1905.
N. S. Wales .. £952,186 £997,098 Inc. £44,912
Victoria .. 666,705 596,167 Dec. 70,538
Queensland .. 351,059 315,190 Dec. 30,569
Westralia .. 260,714 266,270 Inc. 5,0a6
Tasmania 90,200 75,086 Dec. 15,114
On the whole, Commonwealth refunds are the most dis-
turbing element. For the 10 months the gross
from Customs fell short of previous year s by £3/
and April accounts for £92,168 of this. But there s a
satisfactorv side to this. Australia isn’t borrowing from
the foreign Cohen to the old foolish extent; on the con-
trary, it used up seven or eight millions o. its bunipe
harvest to wipe out a little of the olddeot. In the d
days, when it had a good harvest, it borrowed a lot on
the strength of its prosperity; and when it had a ban
harvest it also borrowed a lot on the st ' r f n R t “,° ,1
adversity, and to tide over its troubles. "
borrowed it didn’t get money, it only .
which it collected duty; it reckoned a big Custom-
revenue a sign of prosperity, whereas it was to a g


*^s
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.—Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still viore economical and expeditious. Large Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS.—-Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives—EVEßYTHlNG.
iSF Our CATALOGUE is yours, for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING <&, TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Ppop. Ltd., 64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—so 4 Little Collins-st., Melbourne, and at Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
PHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor Oil,
* Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, Shellac, “Sun
Brand” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro*
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
fSy - Correspondence Invited.
HY. MARKWALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle,
Auokland, Wellington, Dunedin, Chrlstohuroh.
extent a sign that it was getting further into Cohen’s
hands. All of which, seeing that we must have more
revenue, is a good argument for higher, duties ; for with
the stoppage of borrowing the level of Customs revenue
must be lower, and it can only be raised by higher
duties.
For reasons previously given, following. figures
don’t give too accurate a view of what is happening now,
since the beginning and close of current y'ear are two
different things altogether: —
State Revenues for Year So Far.
1904. 1905.
N.S. Wales (10 mos.). .£9,416,458 £9,405,588 Dec. £10,870
Victoria (10 mos.).. 6,034,095 6,119,635 Inc. 85,540
Queensland (10 mos.).. 2,944,010 2,832,109 Dee. 111,901
Westralia (10 mos.).. 2,893,699 2,900,712 Inc. 7,013
S. Australia ( 9 mos.).. 1,786,307 1,966,621 Inc. 180,314
Tasmania (10 mos.).. 758,609 717,192 Dec. 41,417
Note that in every case where the figures are for the full
10 months a decrease is shown, except by Westralia ; and
its increase ought to have been much larger considering
the growth of population and debt.
Expenditure returns are as usual scrappy and
unsatisfactory:—
State Expenditure for Year So Far.
1904. 1905. Decrease.
N.S. Wales (10 months) £10,290,715 £10,015,624 £275,091
Queensland (10 „ ) 2,506,762 2,467,126 39,636
Westralia (10 „ ) 3,005,685 2,979,621 26,064
Increase.
S. Australia (6 „ ) 1,253,359 1,276,938 22,579
Victoria (6 „ ) 3,862,858 3,801,162 61,696
Compared with what Kidston has done in Queensland)
what Oarruthers has done in N.S. Wales, in the way of
economy, looks fine and large. But go back to 1902, and
put the two side by side :
1902. 1905. Increase.
N.S. Wales (10 months) £9,522,271 £10,015,624 £493,353
Decrease.
Queensland (10 „ ) 2,804,780 2,467,126 337,654
And the N.S.W. old age pensions were already in force in
1902—the sy stem began at the end of July, 1901. Car-
ruthers’ “ reform and economy ” have thus so far consisted
in spending in the past 10 months nearly half a million
more than was spent in the same 10 months of 1902.
Surveying the situation generally -
1903 1904 1905
Deficit. Deficit. Deficit.
N.S.W. (10 mos.) . £1,025,458 £874,257 £610,036
Deficit. Deficit.
Victoria (6 mos.) 624,030 270,350
Available for half-year’s interest.
Queensland (10 mos.) .. 242,757 437,248 364,983
Deficit. Deficit. Deficit.
S. Australia (6 mos.) .. 153,485 171,385 85,353
Surplus. Deficit. Deficit.
Westralia (10 mos.) .. 188,178 111,986 78,909
Tasmania furnishes no expenditure return at all; Vic.
and S.A. for six months only. Westralia is showing up
a trifle better these last few months ; but probably the
loan account, if that were made available, would explain
a good deal of that; for this Government still has a nice
little sum to play with, and to spend on things which
ought to be charged to revenue.
Only N.S.W. and Queensland let light in upon
its transactions with Cohen
1904. 1905.
N.S.W. Works .. £1,550,188 £1,222,340 Dec. £327,848
N.S.W. Harbor
Resumptions .. 680,905 317,254 Dec. 363,651
Queensland .. 512,540 163,847 Dec. 348,693
Kidston got his loan expenditure for last month down to
£5650. Carruthers’ total bill for the 10 months is
£1,539,594, so his total for the year will be close up to
£2,000,000.
• * * *
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
Society (Sydney):—
Dividends on Bonus Total
Capital (£6250) to Added Capital
Actually Paid by Policy to and Re-
Mar., Profits. Shareholders. Holders. Funds, serves.
1895 .. £15,667 94 p.c. =£5862 £3862 £5,943 £113,292
1896.. 15,087 92 „ ~ 5728 3728 5,631 118,923
1897.. 15,851 90 „ „ 5651 3651 6,549 125,472
1898.. 17,647 914 „ » 5720 3720 8,207 133,679
1899.. 17,530 97 „ „ 6055 4055 7,420 141,099
1900.. 17,213 113 J » „ 7087 4087 6,039 147,138
1901.. 19,963 1124 „ ~ 7036 4036 8,891 156,029
1902.. 17,952 1314 „ „ 8224 4224 5,504 101,533
1903.. 17,184 132 „ „ 8248 4248 4,688 166,221
1904.. 23,313 1324 » „ 8290 4290 10,733 176,954
1905 .. 21,446 149 ~ ~ 9312 4312 7,822 184,776
The co. doesn’t, however, put it quite like that. By pretty
regularly capitalising some of the profits, the capital has
been brought up to £62,500. On this a modest 8 per cent,
is paid (£5000) : the rest of the div. is made up of a
bonus of 20 p.c. on the premiums, divided equally be-
tween policy-holders and shareholders. The society,
which for 1903-4 had easily the lowest loss rate among
Australasian offices, will probably this year, in spite of
the increase, he again in the same position in the list.
Anyway, only two co.’s in 1904 got down as low as 19 p.c.
of net premiums ; and the Australian Mutual’s figure for
this year is 19‘8 p.c. Still, the co. makes these figures
somewhat lower than others do by including its 10 p.c.
bonus to policyholders in the premiums, whereas some
other offices which give the same bonus deduct the
amount from the premiums, and report the latter net.
Per contra, the expense rate is almost the highest.
The co. selects its risks, and watches them, and
that costs money ; but on the average, 1 p.c. spent
judiciously in supervision seems to save considerably
more than 1 p.c. in losses—though there is obviously
a limit to the number of co.’s that could as successfully
adopt this policy. The co. also stands off marine risks,
which mean a high average loss rate, but a low expense
rate —a fact necessary to remember when comparing in-
surance co.s’ figures. Some further comparisons :
1895. 1900. 1904. 1905.
Premiums .. . £29,416 £33,888 £35,856 £36,088
Interest .. .. 5,797 5.221 7,037 7,518
Losses 6,717 8,131 4,293 7,149
Expenses .. .. 12,828 13,765 15,287 15,009
Losses p.c. of Pre-
miums .. .. 22-8 24 0 12-0 19-8
Expenses p.c. of Pre-
miums .. .. 43-6 40-7 42-7 41-6
Just upon 60 per cent, of the premiums were profits. A
co. that can do business on that basis deserves to be con-
gratulated. True, a fifth of that 60 per cent, went back
to the policy-holders ; still, even then, there aren’t many
financial reefs like this to be worked. The capital and
reserves are represented chiefly by £137,341 of freeholds
and mortgages, and £52,642 of deposits ; and on the mean
amount held during the year the return was a solid £4
Is. lOd. per cent. —which seems to show that the securi-
ties are right.
* * » *
Glissan v. Crowley, which has resolved itself
somehow into a trial of some of the methods of the City
Mutual Life Co., is still wandering through the courts.
Last week N.S.W. Full Court was more than ordinarily
disrespectful, saying that “ corruption ” wasn’t too strong
a term to use, and refused to disturb a verdict giving
Glissan damages for malicious prosecution. Point that
seems to have given Chief Justice Darley most concern
was that some directors and other such officers had taken
commission for introducing business. That’s bad ; but
much the same sort of thing goes on all the time in the
most “highly respectable”financial circles. “ Local direc-
tors,” especially of fire insurance eo.’s, are sometimes ap-
pointed for the amount of business they can “ influence.”
They don’t get commissions, but they get fees ; and they
wouldn’t continue to get the fees if they didn’t bring the
business. They are not expected to attend board meet-
ings, though they may if they like ; but they have a
certain amount of business in their patronage, and they
are practically bribed with fees to send it a certain way.
This, of course, doesn’t improve matters for the City
Mutual; but it only shows that the City Mutual did in a
clumsy way what is habitually done in a more “ refined ”
way by people who are horrified at the other concern’s
conduct. All the same, City Mutual should have a
disinfecting as rapidly as possible, and consult policy'-
holders as to future management.
» # * *
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd., shipowners, mer-
chants, Island traders, &c.:—
Added
Written to Re- Re-
Mrch, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1896.. £106,062
1897.. £36,187 8 p.c. = £21,400 £lO,OOO £4,787 110,849
1895.. 48,289 8 „ „ 21,400 5,000 21,889 132,738
1899.. 42,212 8 „ „ 21,400 8,550 12,262 145,000
1900.. 53,072 8 „ „ 22,000 31,072 176,072
New Share Premium Added to Reserves 598 176,670
1901.. 46,410 8 „ „ 22,000 24,410 201,080
1902.. 55,219 8 „ ~ 22,000 33,219 234,299
1903.. 52,629 8 „ „ 22,000 30,629 264,928
1904.. 44,917 8 „ „ 24,000 12,372 8,545 273,473
1905.. 42,740 8 ~ ~ 24,000 18,740 292,213
Gross profits were practically the same as in the previous
y'ear, and but little less than in 1903, and actually' more
than in 1902 ; the difference in the net profits shown
results almost wholly from variations in the item
“sundry losses.” In 1902 these amounted to only
£6796; in the past year to £29,484. What they
consist of isn’t specified ; though apparently they are not
bad debts, for bad debts have a line (and a big line) to
themselves. Probably they are incidents in the risky
marine business, which constitutes about the largest
sheaf of the many irons the co. has in the fire. As to the
provision for bad debts, by the way, amounting last year
to £11,824, either the co. does a riskier trading business
than its reputedly conservative policy would lead one to
expect, or by making an exceedingly liberal provision, it
is practically building up an internal reserve. In addi-
tion to the reserves shown above, co. has sundry reserves
at branches—apparently a contingency account—amount-
ing to £27,787 ; this has increased £1846 during the year,
and it is doubtful whether this amount should not be
added to the profit. On the figures shown above, the
capital (£300,000) and reserves earned £7 9s. Id. p.c. On
the other hand, though 8 p.c. on the capital was paid in
divs., so substantial are the reserves (all, however, used in
the business), that only 56 p.c. of the profits are being
distributed. The unsecured book debts, always heavy,
have moved the right way—l9o3, £187,832 ; 1904,
£171,745 ; 1905, £164,447. And there is a similarly satis-
factory movement in regard to liabilities to the public.
• • * *
Mt. Boppy (N.S.W.) cheered Bull with a
3s. 6d. div. at its sixth meeting ; total for y'ear, Bs. per
110,000 share, against Is. in 1901, Is 3d. in 1902, and 7s.
in 1904. 00. has thus only 2s. 9d. to go to get its money'
back; and even then 70,000 of the shares were issued,
paid, to vendors. Results to 31st. Dec. :
Quartz. Tailings. Slimes. Gold.
Tons. Tons. Tons. oz. Value.
1901 .. 12,440 7,695 6,092 £18,781
1902 .. 10,697 6,565 3,873 7,815 24,211
1903 .. 29,312 20,783 9,347 18,801 79,724
1904 .. 35,378 23,831 10,091 21,800 91,460
87,827 58,874 23,311 64,508 £214,176
In 1901 there was seven months’ work; in 1902, five
months’. As divs. have been £94,532, and co. carries on
£520, expenses, including machinery and development,
appear to have absorbed capital and £119,644. Last year
gold won was £91,460, and expenses £40,587. At 31st
December, 1903, ore reserve was set down at 110,000 tons-;
estimate at 31st December, 1904, after allowing for an ex-
traction of 35,378 tons during the y'ear, is computed at
170,000 tons, an increase of 60,000 tons, attributable to
development in sulphide ores. Co. now proposes to in-
crease capital by £33,000 by new issue of 11,000 £1 prefer-
ence shares at £2 premium. Reasons given are need
of new main shaft further south and new reservoir ;
actual reason probably is that sulphide ores are quite out
of the reach of present plant. It’s therefore likely that
most of the new capital will be absorbed in a roasting
process. Withholding of present div. would have provided
most of the required funds ; but it’s the old grab over
again—the beginning of over-capitalisation ; and even a
Mount Boppy can succumb to that.
• * • •
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), known for its econo-
mic working of a low-grade proposition and also for its per-
sistentdenial that it was stretching out forneighbor, Great
Western, now eats its unreliable remarks. Great Western,
for some time owned but unworked by W. N. Willis, is
accredited with a lot of oxidised ore of low grade ; and as
Occidental’s workings on the same zone are on the
Western boundary, probability is that Western was much
wanted ; and there’s sound sense in the purchase. Price
paid (£1000) only' means that Occidental pays Willis the
equal of a 3d. dividend, and sets at rest for a while much
uneasiness in regard to future life of its free milling ores.
• * * *
A humorous feature of the Occidental’s purchase
of the Great Western, at Cobar, was that, only a few
weeks before the business w-as concluded, the directors’
half-yearly report pooh-poohed the idea of taking in “ this
unworked mine.” It backed up the suggestion that the
show was utterly valueless by declaring, that its own ore
on the Western’s boundary was worthless; and said that
The Bulletin ought to have known better than to advo-
cate the purchase. Within a month or so of this charac-
teristic bit of bluff, the purchase was made.
* * * *
0.5. A., already referred to as a syndicate-owned
show of some promise on Cobar (N.S.W.) outskirts, gets
into harness on an insufficient (£2000) paid capital.
Syndicate is full of the wisdom of mining men, and, under
manager Bryant, there isn’t likely' to be any foolery in the
management. Present shaft, down 250 ft., is to be re-tim-
bered and deepened to 550 ft., with some crosscutting
every 50ft. C.S.A. builds its hopes on sulphides, but the
chances of sulphide of iron and sulphide of copper are
about equal, and, if it’s the latter, the concern bursts.
Understood necessary plant is being rented from Cobar
Copper Mine, which will ease the drag on the slim banking-
account.
# * « •
Cobar Gold Mines, under Manager Bonderson,
so far hasn’t indicated what’s going to be done in the
way- of treating its low'-grade silicious copper ores.
Problem is exactly the same Chesney had to face, for, like
Chesney, C.G. mine is short of basic ore. Whether
Chesney problem could have been solved by a leaching
process will most likely be determined later on. At pre-
sent it is clear neither mine is a smelting proposition,
and everything points to fact that Cobar Gold Mines’ big
reserve will shortly be called on to instal a leaching plant.
Solution of silicious copper ores profitably would mean
much to Cobar, for it’s questionable if there’s a mine
in the field that sooner or later isn’t going to have the
same trouble.
Mt. Hope, Condobolin district (N.S.W.), that
erstwhile much-boomed copper show that caused some
heart sickening, is again beginning to take notice. For
past few years it has had a restful time, and, if the ore
hasn’t benefited by it, price of copper is more hopeful.
Any'how, Osmetti, Crowl Creek discoverer, thinks so.
He and a party have bought the mine and plant, lock,
stock and barrel, for the price of a Tivoli song, and Crowl
Creek experience ought to help them.
* * * *
Nil Desperandum, a locally-owned block joining
Lachlan G. M., Forbes (N.S.W.), on the north, started
crushing for the third time on May Ist. Previous erush-
ings have all been failures, and mine itself, so far as
supervision is concerned, has a somewhat muddlesome
history. Now a capable man is at the helm—Manager-
Potter, formerly of Chillagoe.
Federal, also Bull-owned, and joining North
Lachlan, is a distinctly low-grade proposition that hasn’t
yet made it clear how much profit it’s making. Reef at
100 ft. level is 20ft., and at 150 ft. level 2Sft wide; so
there’s plenty of dirt available for the mill; and, as the
field favors pockets, there’s always a chance of a rich
patch to sweeten things and keep shareholders quiet.
* * * *
B.H. North proposes an increase of shares and
capital which isn’t much to its credit. A few months ago
it paid a 3s. div. ; it has now a substantial credit balance ;
y r et to raise capital for shaft sinking and mill additions, it
proposes to issue 20,600 new shares, making 130,000 alto-
gether. Certainly the co. must have another shaft; it
can’t haul ore and send down filling with present appli-
ances, and keep its splendid mill fully occupied. But the
work could have been done out of profits without further
watering the stock. The new scheme, which is quite un-
necessary, simply means supplying the market with a few
more gambling counters. The directors’ idea is to sink to
1000 ft., which will take about tw'oyears, and add to the
mill to make its capacity 3000 tons a w'eek. The new
shares presumably will be issued at a small premium, and
will go to present shareholders if they can lift them. If
they can’t, underwriters will take them ; who the under-
writers are isn’t mentioned. Probably a new co. will be
formed, with a distribution of cash in hand among old
shareholders.
* * * »
Baker’s Creek, the mostly Adelaide-owned Hill-
grove mine, which for 15 years was most consistent div.
payer amongst N.S. Wales’ gold mines, but didn’t keep
exploration ahead of the mill, nor put aside enough to do
the necessary work with, has just about reached the
length of its tether, and will probably reconstruct in a
month or two. Many shareholders have been dissatisfied
with recent management, and wonder whether this new
scheme is part of a freezing-out process. Shareholders
shouldn’t allow themselves to lose their interest, anyhow.
* * * •
There is reported again the discovery of oil-
fields in Australia. This time ths locality is Maitland,
N.S.W. Last time it was in a Sydney suburb.
* * * *
The Long Tunnel Extended’s golden eggs have
hatched one or two very ordinary geese. The warning on
the wall was written in Waihalla when folk there
E aimed out their scrip, hut it is not read in Mel-
ourne even now. The situation is very plain
plainer perhaps than when it was previously put. Yield
down to under lOdwt. ; cause, disturbed ground at No.
23. Break came in the level, and was not looked at
seriously. Now it is found to go up towards the floor of
No. 22. How far does it affect the life of the mine, and
how far does it affect Long Tunnel, into which claim it is
making ? Reef in No. 24 level is solid, but it would take
the dull pain from the pit of the stomach
if it could be said for certain that the fault had
not affected gold values. Nine dwt. stone at the Extended
does not cover expenses; there’s the rub. Last div. must
have been a tight squeeze, even if the reserve was not
drawn upon. Certain of the old blatant crowd scuttled,
but Peter Finlayson stood to his craft. He is the sort of
man that makes mining ; so luck to him, and may he win 1
* * * *
The Mack’s Creek (Vic.) claims float somewhat
insecurely in the backwash of Melbourne speculation.
This does not arise from the poverty of the stone, so far
as it goes, but from a poverty of belief, on the
part of the broking crowd, that there is anything
like the value of the shares in sight in the mines.
The balance-sheet of the Star of the West Extended
tells, however, how much has come out of little. Appli-
cation fees, £500; preliminary expenses, £3OO ; 107 tons,
3120 z. Speckers had a bit of a nip when the yield was
posted, but are gaining breathing-time. What gave
them heart of grace to sell was the fact that the gold was
in leaders in the sandstone. Formation looks doubtful,
but manager Martin’s dictum is still —-“ It’s a valuable
property.” Time will tell.
* * * *
Another Rutherglen co. to pick up a little is
Great Southern. Wash of late drifted back to just under
13dwt., but as that gave a margin over working expenses,
it paid to be stoped. Value, however, is 17s. per fathom
less than the average that brought divs. last year. At
the south end of the mine there is only a comparatively
narrow run of payable wash opened up, though the gutter
is 900 ft. wide. The leading drive at this end, too, is not
showing up too well. North, the dirt is best in the centre
of the lead, but, as the bottom is uneven, it will cost a bit
more to work than the average run of wash. It is when
the ground off Nos. 2 and 3 shoots at this end is opened
up that yields will improve. The management is go-ahead
and straight. The rivalry between the mine and the
Chiltern Valley is good for both concerns ; but that doesn’t
excuse the parsimony of the board in some directions.
* * * *
The best feature about the Catherine United,
Bendigo, is that the gold has continued beyond the break ;
so sanguine souls hope for a repetition of the old rich
days. The Williams’ United central shaft is to be un-
watered and made a three-compartment working, after
which a hard go will be made to pick up the Catherine
United shoot.
* * * *
Great South Long Tunnel, Waihalla, after
having dragged out a weary existence for perhaps a score
of years, has been taken possession of again by the Long
Tunnel, which owns the shaft and portion of the battery.
Cecil, the late manager, is now tin-sluicing for the South
Mt. Cameron in Tas.
* * * *
Diamond Hill sections at Bendigo are divided
among small-priced col’s and are favorable as gambling
counters for those who may want excitement. Call-pay-
ing, too, is justified. The claims are away at the south
end of the New Chum line, and are ended by the Victoria
Proprietary. This is a Johnbull concern, re-formed
out of the Goldfields of Victoria, which was con-
stituted to take over the • Bendigo Goldfields,
New Chum Gold Mines, and Southern New Chum.
New Chum goldfields is the show that is galvanising the
others, as good gold has been got from a saddle at 453 ft.
Ernest Mueller’s luck has stuck to him, as he has a para-
mount interest in the claim. Adjoining shows are all
shallow, and do not rank as mines yet. This does not
apply to the Victoria Prop., which is down 1700 ft. Several
of them are crosscutting at 300 ft. for the reef. When
they get it they will be able to talk. Still, it is all bona-
fide work, and deserves success.
* * * *
Estimated ore reserves of two more W.A. mines
on Dec. 31 : South Kalgurli, 100,000 tons of 10 - Bdwt. ;
Hannan’s Star, 31,200 tons of B’62dwt.
* » « *
Idaho, Kalgoorlie, formerly known as Golden
Morning Star, adjoining Boulder Deep Levels on the east,
has treated 85 tons for 3020 z. Total to date, 152 tons for
1086 oz. Property was abandoned b3'a former co., but is
proving a success in hands of present holders. For past
four months a lot of dead work and opening- up have
been done and a good deal of pay ore found. Lode is
supposed to be a continuation of Morrison lode of
Hannan’s Star and Deep Levels.
* * * *
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), about which
there is a good deal of anxiety', continues to develop well.
The winze below 300 ft. is down 50ft. ; reef maintains size
and values. Opening up at 400 ft. is about to start; result
will be anxiously awaited. Shaft was sunk to 400 ft. a
year ago, before manager Harper took charge, but no
opening-up was done there, as money was scarce, and ore
in upper levels could not be treated, as, at that time,
there was no water. A 9d. div., or £7500, was payable
May 10, and it is safe to predict a similar monthly distri-
bution for at least a year ahead.
4 * * *
Nat. Harper, who has been in charge of Golden
Pole for past year, has resigned as from May 31, and his
place will be taken by R. Gibson, chairman of co.
« • * »
Associated Northern, Kalgoorlie, is in a far
better position than is generally believed. Two years’
reserves blocked out, and as much more practically-
assured. After G. M. Roberts took charge, a new pipe
of ore was found on the west; he also found that the origi-
nal pipe had straightened up at 200 ft., and went to the
surface vertically. These pipes are both very flat and
range up to 75ft. wide and 30ft. high, and dip south at
about one in four. Crosscuts have been driven to the
western boundary at No. 1 and No. 7 levels. These
have cut three other lodes not previously known.
A lot of lOdwt. ore is now being opened up in the oxidised
zone, and it is practically certain that a battery' will
shortly be erected to treat it. At No. 7 level lodes where
cut are poor, but may' improve. Westernmost lode is
supposed to he a continuation of the small telluride vein
w'orked by Paringa, but is wider and richer. Property is
very difficult to prospect, and fresh flat pipes of very rich
ore may be picked up any time. It is of interest for
shareholders to know that this mine is now open to
inspection.
* * * *
Northern Blocks Syndicate (W.A.) recently
secured an option over Great Leviathan, Southern Cross,
previously' known as Kenny’s Find. Kenny won much
gold at a comparatively shallow depth ; but on
sinking deeper reef became poorer. In crosscutting
at 160 ft., a 4ft. reef worth 35dwt. has been met,
and may, or may' not, prove a good thing. This
reef is supposed to be absolutely new, and, if width
and values continue, syndicate seems to he on a.good
wicket. Syndicate is in 350,000 shares, and, when pre-
sent option was obtained, had cash in hand, £7OOO.
Southern Cross has been long neglected, and has never
been properly exploited, as no work has been done below
300 ft., and the sulphide zone is an unknown quantity.
Manager Hamilton, of Boulder Prop., has an option on
Golden Cube at the Cross, and is now exploring.
Hamilton is a particularly cautious “chiel,” and makes
few mistakes.
• * • »
This paragraph is only of interest to Mine
Managers and directors who are desirous of cutting down
working expenses, without sacrificing efficiency. Most
mines use a considerable quantity of rubber goods per
annum, which is imported in most cases, and in many
instances partly perished before put in use, the con-
sequence being frequent replacements. If managers
will use Dunlop rubber belting, packings, gaskets, suction,
air and steam hose, they can effect a considerable saving,
as these goods are freshly made of the best grade rubber,
and are free from perish. Tbe Dunlop Tyre Co., who
have depots in every State, will be pleased to forward the
reader a sample of any class of rubber goods he may
require, together with rubber catalogue and price list.
Tenders submitted for rubber supplies.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out arid
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* • * *
Most millmen are scared to crush through fine
screens, owing to the production of slime mineral which
cannot be caught on bumping tables. The Sperry Slimer
will soon put this fear to the right-about. It is a vanning
convex huddle with an adjustable rubber surface. Write
for particulars to N. Guthridge Ltd., Sydney and Mel-
bourne. See bottom of back cover.*
» * * *
The Commercial World (London) July 15,
1904, writes with regard to the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited :—“ In responding to the
cordial vote of thanks passed to the staff at the meeting
alluded to, the general manager stated that the stability
and strength of the society had been growing year by
year and that at the end of the year 1903 it was in a
stronger position than ever before.”*
» * * *
The new electric light installation of the Mel-
bourne Exhibition Cycle Track, formed a great attraction
of the recent “ Austral ” meeting. The main feature of
the system is the “Ganz” brilliant arc lamp, forty of
which are distributed round the track, suspended on iron
brackets. The light is absolutely steady, soft and
diffused, doing away entirely with the injurious glare
common with other lamps and overcoming the objection-
able shadows in and under the globe. Special globes are
used which, while diffusing the light, do not cut off an
undue quantity and the effect is a light known
scientifically to be the best for all illuminating purposes.
The candle power is more than four times that furnished
by other lamps at the same current consumption. Electric
lighting by the “Ganz” arc lamp is cheaper than any
other form of illuminant, both in first cost, in fixing and
in maintenance. The contractors for this installation
were the Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd., corner
Hannah and Kavanagh streets, South Melbourne, Sole
Agents for Ganz and Co., Budapest, Hungary, who will
gladly furnish estimates and expert advice upon similar
or any electrical schemes.*
* * » *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange) for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
4 * * *
The Wilfley Slime Table which has been in
operation on the Ivanhoe Gold Mines for some months
past has been giving extremely good results. Mr. H. T
Brett, Metallurgist of the Ivanhoe Gold Corporation, in an
article contributed to the March number of the Chamber
of Mines Journal, W.A., gives particulars of the savings
made, and states that the introduction of the Wilfley
Slime Table will be of great service in treating the low-
grade sulphide ores of the field. Since the future of
Kalgooilie is so intimately bound up with the most
economical solution of this sulphide problem, this
assurance from Mr. Brett is a most important matter.
The Austral Ot.s Engineering Co., South Melbourne, are
sole manufacturers for Australasia of this table.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discription of cast or wrought iron work.*
Oil Engines.— lnformation has just reached
us that the Government Award (Gold Medal) in this class,
at the present Capetown Exhibition, has been awarded to
the “ Hornsby ” Oil Engine. The success of this engine is
perhaps the most remarkable in engineering history.
There is no engineering speciality which can claim, as
the “ Hornsby ” oil engine does, to have obtained every
highest award in the world—viz., England, America,
Australian, France and Russia, &o.—and last year it
secured the British Government award of £lOOO. It is
made in various types of fixed, portable, traction and
marine, and in the latter it is made in suitable sizes for
small pleasure craft, and in gradations of h.p. up to 500
b.h.p., as supplied to the British Navy. R. Hornsby and
Sons, Ltd., Sydney and Melbourne.*
* * * *
The Babcock Boiler seems to be favored by
mining engineers, over 50 mines in Australia using these
boilers. Mount Morgan has 20, Waihi Gold Mining Co.
24, Mount Lyell 12, Tasmanian Gold Mining Company 7,
and at Broken Hill there are 30 distributed amongst the
mines, water works, and electric supply, while in
Western Australia they are looked upon as a necessity,
there being now 68 in the principal mines and Kalgoorlie
Water Supply. It will be noted that coal is expensive at
Broken Hill, and wood fuel is expensive at W.A. These
figures speak for themselves. Evidently the ease of
transportation, the economy in fuel and maintenance and
the adaptability to any class of fuel, that are such con-
spicuous points in the Babcock Boiler, are much
appreciated in Australian mines.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
» * * *
Assay Balance, Ainsworth’s No. 1 special, 5 inch
beam, agate knife edges and bearings etc., sensibility
l/200th =0.005 milligramme = l/13000th grain. Price £5O.
Large stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. H. B. SILBERBERG and Co., 443
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* 4 * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
» * * «
Additions to Kalgurli’s treatment plant are
practically completed, and May’s return should be
benefited. Expected in future 7500 tons worth 60s. a
ton will be treated monthly, at a cost of 28s. a ton, leaving
325. profit a ton, or £12,000. Deducting a big margin for
contingencies it looks as if 00. will easily double its
quarterly divs. Last July reserves were estimated at
365,000 tons worth 14dwt. Since then 40,000 tons, worth
15dwt., have been treated, hut quite as much has been
developed, and reserves are as strong as ever.
(Continued on page 30.)


.. . •' .
m
s*?< ■
CUSHIONS
Designed
by
TOM
BROWN.
in Four
Colors.
Special
Price..
3/11
JONES & COfIPANY,
GEORGE AND BARRACK STS., SYDNEY.
m
mm;
hnf
SET.
EXQUISITE MODELS. „*? PERFECT FIT*
je GUARANTEED WEAR, #
THE
• • •
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside,
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.
Society
CANADIAN
CLUB
WHISKY.
The triumph of Father M £ Auliffe over two
footpads at Cessnock (N.S.W.) is another proof
that the professional man of peace can be terrible
when cornered or provoked to war—the failures of
missionaries to withstand hordes of cannibals not-
withstanding. Indeed the would-be shearer of
the cleric sometimes gets shorn. For instance, an
American evangelist was once stuck-up, while
touring Australia, by two greenhorn bushrangers.
He drew his tongue, reduced them to uncon-
sciousness, piled one on top of the other, and sat
down on this penitents’ form to pray that “these
erring brethren might be led to see the error of
their ways.” Prayer was followed by a collection,
to which the culprits contributed their all. Then
the presiding clergyman was about to depart in
peace when one of his own thoughts struck him—
“No Australian collection was ever unaccom-
panied by trouser buttons,” and, whipping out a
murderous knife, he took these also, leaving the
poor bushrangers utterly without the means of
support, decent or otherwise.
A HOBBY.
BERT : " Young! Innovent! Why , my boy, she’s
already buried three husbands.”
PERCY : “ Bai Jove! I suppose she’s making a
hobby of it.”
The Australian Wesleyans have acquired a
new mission steamer, the Privateer. We trust
the name won’t mislead anyone in the other camp
to remark that the Wesleyans mix piracy with
missionary enterprise in the Pacific.
N.S.W. Education Department is distri-
buting among the school children a “patriotic”
song-hook. Some samples of the ditties to be
sung on Empire Day and other such occasions :
1. Cantata : “ The Empress of our Heart, the Queen
beyond the Seas.”
2. Cadet march: “To Guard our well-loved Mother-
land.”
3. “ When the Empire Calls.”
4. “ Ladysmith Relieved.” [Who said “ Chinamen ”?]
5. “ The Empire's Sons.”
fi. “ The Dear Old Land.”
7. “ God Save the King.”
And the song-book is “Made in Germany.” It
recalls Arthur Rae’s suggestion : that on Empire
Day every “Australia first” man ought to keep
his children home from school and tell them why
he keeps them. Thus will what is meant for poison
be turned to sound and wholesome counsel.
Bugler Pearson, late of the Vic. detach-
ment of the Australian Imperial Regiment, has
cast a new and interesting side-light on the
enthusiasm of those devoted angels who hung
around our Cohentingenters’ necks some five years
ago. Bugler Pearson, in the character of a de-
parting hero, met a young lady, and married her
after a month’s acquaintance. She was a Mel-
bourne servant girl doting on the military, and
she “hooked” her victim with the knowledge that
he was bound to sail for Boerland and possibly be
numbered with the dead, in which case she would
get a pension to console her. Next year the
bugler was invalided home. He had saved £B4,
and he reckoned on starting domestic life with his
bride. His bride, however, was not taking any
live bugler after his disappointing conduct in rela-
tion to the pension. She preferred to remain in
domestic service at 12s. 6d. a week. He got a
decree nisi.
* * * *
May I brought a big crowd about the old-
age pensions- premises in Victoria Markets,
Sydney. Throughout the State there was prob-
ably a proportional crowd at every such pension
place. At the Victoria Markets there was, too,
something of a block, which the police had fre-
quently to disperse. The bad arrangement of the
payment system is woise than melancholy. Why
cannot the old people who have proved their
claims get a monthly credit at the Savings Bank
nearest their residence ? They could then draw it
as they wanted it, by order or in person, just as
if they had deposited the money themselves. In
that way the crush and personal struggle would be
wholly avoided. As the present system works,
the individual draws his £2 odd at once, and is
tempted to “ knock it down.” The Government
pays a private bank £lO,OOO a year, and supposing
it cost every penny of that (which it certainly
wouldn’t) for new Savings Bank clerks, there
would still be a gain in the decency of the pro-
ceedings. Into the distribution of the old-age
pensions the enemies of the measure appear to
have infused every available element for the
humiliation of the unfortunate recipients.
A tragic story of the bush,
from River Suttor district, central
Q. The owner of a station was
stricken with a mysterious disease
—probably dengue. Then his wife
and children were attacked. When
a distant neighbor happened to call at
the station homestead he found the man,
scarcely able to stand, digging a grave for
his dead wife, the eldest daughter apparently
dying, and the other sick children (one six months
old), fondling the corpse, inside the house.
* * * *
.Recent defalcations have directed attention
to the fact that certain indemnity companies do
not pay up the amount of their guarantees unless
the offender is captured. What an incentive to
crooked business is such a provision ! A man,
guaranteed for a couple of thousand pounds, who
has robbed his employers up to the limit and
gambled the proceeds, might severely tempt an
indemnity co. by confessing the truth and asking
for £lOO to see him safely away. Of course, he
mightn’t think of such a thing; and under such
temptation an indemnity co. might always be
honest. But the position lends itself to ugly
business.
St. Peter’s Cathedral, Adelaide, has been
enriched by a handsome, carved reredos, erected
by his widow to the memory of a
departed brewer. It naturally
is called a beeredc s.
THE RULING PASSION.
MR. ISAACS: “Ah,, Miss Cohen, I lofe to see you
pleased.”
MISS COHEN: “ How's that, Mr. Isaacs?”
MR. ISAACS: “ Then I see all the peautiful goldt
in your teeth.”
The S. Australian Railway Commissioner
has allowed a flaring “revival” notice to go up
on the advt. hoarding of at least one suburban
station —“Prepare to meet thy God.” In that
position it seems to be a tip from the stable, yet
the fatal-accident rate on 8. Aus. railways is
claimed to be the lowest in the world.
* * * *
Doctor’s evidence at the inquest on a man
killed by a fall of rock at
Bendigo (Vic.), the other
day, is worthy of note by
miners. Frequently, he said,
hurriedly bringing an injured
man to the surface in an
upright position in a cage
was sufficient to deprive him
of any chance of life. Patient
should be kept below, if pos-
sible, in a recumbent posi-
tion, and revived with hot
water bottles, etc., until the
passing of the first effects of
the shock.
* ¥ m
The Sydney daily papers
are writing about the Parra-
matta Asylum scandal as if
it had never before come un-
der their notice. But the
late Henry Parkes once pro-
posed so to enlarge the Rook-
wood Asylum pavilions that
room would be found there
for the unfortunate six hun-
dred now in danger of being
roasted at Parramatta; and
the Public Works Committee
as far back as 1897 recom-
mended the immediate con-
struction of a new asylum at Leumeah, on the
grounds that the inmates at Parramatta were in
constant danger.
* * * *
“ Country Schoolmaster ” on the decadence
of the country kid :
To “ Mulga Mat ” (B. 4/5/’O5), I must apologise for lack
of lucidity. My par on 20/4/’O5 did not refer to children
of towns or places where maypole jigs or school functions
worth mentioning are possible, but to poor little kiddies
in sleepy back blocks, wbos e ox-like parents only appear i o
value them for their possibilities as farm slaves or teat-
pullers. Heartily applaud statement that “the State
school is the one bright spot in the lives of outback
children.”
It will be interesting to note what attitude
Melbourne National Gallery trustees will take
with respect to a picture, the lour of which
is now under offer. The painting—a large
canvas—represents a white girl and a negro
girl sleeping in one of the cells of the
Coliseum, awaiting a matinee, when they
■will be delivered to the lions. Both girls
are completely nude ; but, as they are
supposed to be Christian martyrs,
nothing but admiration was expressed
for the picture by the unco guid when
it was first shown at the London
Academy. Respectable old ladies
used to attend and weep in front
of the picture, and curates would
bring young persons of 1G to
admire its With this
precedent it is possible that
the Melbourne trustees will
relax the prohibition against
the nude, which has made the
gallery a laughing-stock.
Years ago Surgeon Fit;-
gerald paid over £lOOO for
“Chloe” (probably the
finest work that Lefebvre
ever turned out, and
miles ahead of his
“Truth” in the Paris
Luxembourg) and pre-
sented the picture to
the gallery, but - the
trustees refused to ac-
cept the unclothed
damsel. A few years
back Altson the elder
put the trustees in a.
quandary by sending,
under the terms of his
scholarship, “The Go-
lden Age,” which com-
prises a number of
nudes. But they are
shadowy, decorative
figures, destitute of life
or warmth, and the
trustees permitted
them to pass. Young
artists should take
> example by Watts,
who satisfied both
parties by painting
voluptuous females
and giving them
Biblical names.
From the ticket issued
by the Union S.S. Co. for a
Maoriland excursion on Easter Monday :
The company is not liable in respect of the passenger or
o": goods for the consequences of the act of God, perils
and accidents of the seas or rivers, or machinery, boilers
or steam navigation, or other accidents, whether of a like
nature or otherwise, or of default or error of judgment or
negligence of pilot, master, mariners, engineers, steve-
dores, servants or others employed by the company,
whether in the navigation or management of the steameis
o: otherwise, or of breach of warranty of steamer or
e juipment, or of fire afloat or ashore, delay, or detention
o i the voyage, robbery or theft by land or sea, whether
by servants of the company or otherwise.
This is a consequence of the Jan. 2nd incident, for
which a sea-washed crowd of excursionists had to be
placated, in some cases, with compensation. The
co. now strives to “contract itself out” of all
liability, but it is extremely doubtful whether a
law court would hold some of the conditions
printed on the ticket as binding on li e j a : < poor.
EXCEPT.
HIM: " You never see me stuck in front of a glass
for hours at a time.”
HER : “Yes, I do—except when you are drinking
out of the bottle.”
“Spring ” : In a recent Bulletin someone
is alarmed at the supposed nerve-derangement
amongst the can’t-keep-still scholars in out-hack
schools. A simple remedy in heaps of cases is to
close-crop the heads of the afflicted boys and girls,
and to keep them cropped.
“THE DOSSER.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No happy Caesar ever dreamed
More blissfully,
In downy bed whose gold bars gleamed
Through tapestry
Than I, when all aglow with beer—
Save your disdain !
I camp without a care or fear
In the Domain.
For this is how I always rest !
The “ World’s ” my bed.
By “ Truth” my legs and feet are prest,
And at my head
Two grey-haired “ Heralds ” vigil keep.
When my cigar
Stump perishes, I fall asleep
Bobed in a “ Star.”
n.s.w.
DRIFTER.
THE ANGLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The river onward, silent, glides
With mystic eddies to the sea,
Grim prototype of Time that tides
Eternity !
And lo ! the angler comes along,
Casting his line to lure the prey-
Like echo swish of Pleasure’s thong
Heard any day !
He marks his epochs by the prize,
Landed to laud Ambition’s guile ;
His hopes with Fortune’s freshets vie
’Twixt frown and smile.
Anticipation’s fly he flings
O’er currents swept by daily strife—
Too often his sly luring brings
The dregs of life.
And standing lone, heedless of tears,
Beyond the ken of mortal eyes,
Death angles in the stream of years,
For him—the prize I
NYMSIE.


BOOKKEEPING
Taught by Post. We
have the HIGHEST
SUCCESSES in Accoun-
tants’ Examinations.
Intending Candidates thoroughly prepared in all
subjects. “ Home Study ” post free.
Stott & Hoare's Business College
MO9RH STREET, next Citizens’ Life Building.
JAMES R. LAWSON S LITTLE,
V
V
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128=130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
m
m
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
•V-*
for-
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KIKTGr street,
The Moat Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
AUSTRALIAN
GEOGRAPHY.
THE TRAVELLER : “ Could
you tell me how far it
is to Plentiboose town-
ship?”
THE HUMAN TANK : “ It’s just seven puls
further on.”
The Kinnear (Melbourne) divorce case has
some morals. The petitioner, Robert Kinnear,
aged 55, stated that his wife, aged 46, was married
to him 28 years ago. She was a girl of 20 when
their only child (a son) was born; and having
achieved a baby she soon became cold to him.
His station home wearied her, and she spent
about half of every year in Melbourne, or London,
or anywhere that she could be free of her husband’s
company. The habit of being absent grew on the
lady, and finally, after a holiday of some years
with her wealthy relations in England, she wrote
her husband, addressing him as R. S. Kinnear,
Esq., stating that she had finally decided to live
in England with her wealthy parents. He pro-
tested in kindly language; she replied in a curt
note, from which the “ Esq.” was omitted.
Finally he divorced her on the ground of deser-
tion. Had the position of the parties been re-
versed, the wife would have made the man pay
handsomely for the desertion of her, but under
marriage law the mere man’s wrong is one of
woman’s rights. Sauce for the gander is not sauce
for the dear little goose. A wife may practically
divorce herself from her husband, free of cost,
though she be rolling in riches, but if the deserted
man wishes to legally unloose himself he must
pay the cost of the suit,
* * * •
Apologists for the Sydney theatre system
of making an early-door charge, and keeping
patrons waiting outside until some are wearied
into submitting to that extra impost, now claim
that if all seats were booked, there would be a
heavy loss, for no one would book for some of the
back seats, from which little can be seen or heard.
Then why have such seats? Purchasers of theatre
tickets are as entitled to get what they pay for as
are buyers of any particular brand of whisky.
Not one in a thousand buys a ticket to stand;
or buys to sit where he can see nothing. When
the management takes a man’s money it really
contracts with him to give him view and hear-
of the show. Unfortunately, he doesn't un-
derstand his rights as a rule, and that
assists the growth of practices which are
“sharp,” if they are not dishonest. The theatrical
managers seem to claim that, without the early-
door exaction, and without taking advantage of the
innocence of the public by selling tickets for
standing, or for seats from which little or nothing
can be seen, they would not be able to make ends
meet. Then the remedy is obvious —an honest
and above-board increase in the tariff for ad-
mission.
The Presbyscotch Church Assembly in
Victoria has discussed the advisability of pulling
down the front wall and spire of the Collins-street
Assembly Hall, and erecting, between the hall
and the street, a 3-storey warehouse and shops,
which are calculated to bring in sufficient to pay
the whole ground rent and 5 per cent, on the
money expended. The idea is to be definitely
voted upon by the General Assembly in November
—whether the temple to Mammon will go up on
the frontage, leaving the Almighty the backyard
part of the building,
* A * *
One sport that holds an enduring place in
the great heart of Melbourne’ is dragging the
Yarra for a corpse. The other Sunday evening an
imbecile sprang on the parapet of the crowded
Prince’s Bridge, tossed off his coat, called out
“Good-bye, girls,” and plunged down to death.
Almost before he reached the water, the banks
were crowded ; a boat put off and an oar was held
out to him, but he refused to save himself. Then
for hours thousands stood there and watched the
black water and waited. Just waited. There
was nothing to see, and if the body were recovered
there was nothing to look at but a drowned body ;
but long after midnight there were knots still
there gazing into the darkness, at nothing. And
when, next day, the police recovered the body
after a little dragging, the crowded audience on
the bridge showed its satisfaction by clapping its
hands. So far, body-dragging as a sport lacks
“ barrackers.” But they will come. And No. 1
police party will be spurred on at its work by the
loud lungs of Collingwood, while Footscray puts
its money and its cigarette-stained yells on No. 2
party.
* * * *
The Argus the other day filled one of its
leading columns with a slab of grotesque im-
pudence. In setting out to criticise the manifesto
of the Australian Workers’ Union, it compla-
cently, and apparently quite seriously, recom-
mended that the labor organisers of the bush should
cease from directing attention to such small
matters as rates of pay, and the improvement of
working conditions, and work to remove the
moral faults of the shearer—his drunkennesss, his
extravagance, and his gambling habits. With a
noble fairness, the Argus admitted that the shearer
was possibly not born with a peculiarly vicious
temperament, and suggested that it is his per-
nicious environment which causes the inky black-
ness of his soul. This is a new and rather
disgusting phase of Tory journalism. The Argus,
when next it feels Chadbandish, might with
advantage look to its own crowd first. What’s
the matter with suggesting to the Pastoralists’
Union that it should give up immorality, drunken-
ness, bridge, and the promotion of bogus unions?
* * * *
The latest war memorial was unveiled last
week in Sorrento (Vic.) cemetery, to the memory
of five cohentingenters who died as the result of
the over-crowding and neglect they were subjected
to when they were shipped back by Britain in the
Drayton Grange—returned empties. In the name
of Jingo why is that incident memorialised ?
* * *• *
A Melb. firm has been fined for selling a
brand of “condensed milk,” imported, which had
had abstracted 90 per cent, of its fatty solids. It
wasn’t milk in any sense of the word. That’s the
sort of “food” the Australian gets as the reward
of his craze for imported stuff.
* * * *
Vic. Presbyscotch Assembly was lately
told by its secretary that the church boasted only
26,073 members. Their 485 churches had sitting
room for 83,5f0 persons, but an average of only
28,456 attended the morning service, 30,753 the
evening. One of the ministers truly remarked :
“ This is one of the most 'over-churched countries
in the world.”
Stated that the golden key which was pre-
sented to Lady Northcote on the occasion of the
opening of the hospital for women at Paddington,
N.S.W., cost between £lO and £l5. A ridiculous,
and under the circumstances, reprehensible waste
of money.
* * * *
In the Vic. Practice Court Justice
Hood has ruled that an unlicensed restaura-
teur is entitled to turn an honest six-
pence by charging Is. 6d. for a Is. bottle
of beer from a customer who instructs the
waiter to buy it at an adjacent pub. A revenue
detective raised the question by prosecuting a
Melbourne oyster-shop keeper for “selling”
liquor without a license in this go-between
ra inner, and all the local oyster-shops were deeply
interested in the case. Justice Hood, endorsing
the opinion of the City Court magistrates, held
the transaction in beer to be a sale by the licensed
victualler to the person who employed tiie waiter
as a purchasing agent.
A down-south city is simply letting itself
go in the matter of a scandal. For one reason and
another its “ society ” cold-shouldered the sharp-
tongued wife of a successful share-plunger, and
made the shoulder all the colder because the lady
was good to look at, and was accordingly looked
at by more male eyes than usual. Finally, the
lady resolved to quit; but before she went, she
wrote and scattered the most blistering pamphlet
ever printed about the city—its men (with reser-
vations) and its women (without any), its wine
and its morals, its clothes and its immorals. It was
40 pages of stabs with poisoned hat-pins. And
local society is answering back in warm tu quoques.
Japanese ju-jitsu is nothing like as
paralysing as the Japanese jim-jams
which afflict British folk so badly
just now. The latest yarn in
London Daily Mail is that if
England dares to offend
J apan—
an army of 150,000 men could be
landed in Australia almost
before the first transports
had left this country.
The eventual result
would be that we should
perforce comply with the
demands of Japan.
The dear old mother
country has been tak-
ing her tea too strongof
late, and it hasgoton her
nerves. How on earth is
Japan to get an army of
150,000 men to Australia?
To carry such a force,
with camp - followers,
arms and provisions,
would call for at least 200
large-size steamers, and
to convoy those steamers
in anything like safety
at least 20 first-class crui-
sers or battleships, not to
speak of smaller vessels.
If Japan stripped herself of
every coastal hooker it
couldn’t transport half of
150,000 soldiers to Aus-
tralia. A good many folk
seem to think that the age
of miracles has been revived
lately, and that the new
Almighty is the Jap.
For many years it was the
law in Maori!and that English
barristers were not eligible to
practise until they had passed
an examination in Maoriland
statute law. On his return
from the Coronation junket, the
dazzled Seddon persuaded Parlia-
ment to pass legislation permitting
any barrister who can prove he has
practised three years in England to
put up his shingle without examina-
tion ; he explained that the Bill was part of a recip-
rocal scheme, under which England would grant a
similar concession to Maoriland. So far, however,
the British Government has done nothing, and a
curt dispatch from Chamberlain just previous to
his resignation indicates that nothing will be done.
• * * *
The unblushing effrontery with which the
Jingo press now candidly tells the truth ! Thus
S. M. Herald in a leading article on the Jew
mine-owners of the Rand :
The Boer war was carried on, if not in response to tlieir
agitation, at least in accordance with it, and so they
hoped to earn at least greater profits under the new rule
than when they were subject to the restrictions imposed
by the Government of the Republic.
Had the Herald been so openly truthful in 1899
it is pretty safe to say that there would have been
no N.S.W. Cohentingenters.
* * * »
Three young men of St. Kilda, Melbourne,
were found indulging in a of delectable
humor the other day. They had "caught a cat,
stuck a pin in each eye, and had suspended the
wretched animal by the tail, and were inciting
fox-terriers to jump and worry it. There is some
comfort in the fact that the owner of the cat
caught them at it, and half killed one of them.
After which the local Bench fined the bunch £l6.
Only one of them appears to have been a returned
contingenter. The others were merely drunk.
* * * *
Melbourne Hospital is about to squander
something under £lOO in fat fees for ornate pieces
of parchment, bearing the King’s authority to
call the place the “Royal” Melbourne Hospital.
This is the institution which, every five years or
so, has to beat the drum loudly in order to stop
the bailiffs entering the wards and seizing the
instruments in the operating theatres. It is also
the same one which pays only three members of
its staff more than £2OO, and has the bulk of its
employees working for 15s. weekly.
The ethics of a solicitor. A N.S.W. gent
one, having been overpaid on a client’s account
nearly £2OO, by the mistake of another solicitor,
took the curious point, on being asked before the
Equity Court to restore the money, that in any
c a lie could only be charged as for a debt, and
that Equity had no jurisdiction to deal with him.
The Court held otherwise, and, on his neglect to
comply with its order, committed him to gaol for
contempt.
* * * #
“S.”: Was standing by when one of the
fiercest opponents of Labor in Melbourne bought
two tickets in the Eight Hours Art Union from a
small boy in Swanston-street. “I wonder you
stoop to encourage that sort of thing,” said Fat-
man’s fat friend. “ Ah, but think of their spleen
should I win the thousand. That’s what I venture
for,” answered the monopolist.
* •* * #
Some facts bearing on “economy” in
Victoria:—
Premier Bent recently: “And there is those clubs
called the Melbourne and Pentridge gaols. Why, every
one of those prisoners costs us £43 16s. 6d. a year to keep
in idleness.”
A deputation from the Benevolent Asylum Committee
interviewing- Premier Bent: “If you can see your way to
increase our grant by £5OO or £lOOO it would keep many
poor old derelicts out of gaol ; and we are very careful—
the present inmates, notwithstanding they are mostly
sick and feeble folk, only cost on on average £l3 Bs. Bd. a
year.” Premier Bent: “No ; I can’t give you any more ;
I have no money to spare.”
Coburg police-court, May 2nd : Eliza Toogood, charged
with having insufficient lawful means of support, pleads
not guilty. Constable deposes that he arrested accused
at the Pentridge gaol gates that morning, she having just
served a sentence of six months for a similar “ offence.”
She had no means, and was without friends. “ Six
months hard labor.”
OVERHEARD AT THE RACES.
PUNTER : “ What's Lord Ullin's daughter?”
BOOKY : “ A marc, you fool!”
Even if, to compete with the foreign
s l loc ]dy, the insufficiently protected Australian
woollen mill has to use up some cotton (and it
admits that it has to), Max Hirsch hasn’t
been g ame to accuse the local industry of taking
~ b c c ~ , -. r J , t- r
J} 1 ® re f u g e from the garbage tips. Yet English
“mungo is built that way. A woollen-mill
mana g' er describes the process :
The filthy cast-off garments from all the reeking dens
of fche civilised earth are gathered for their worth as
sliodd.v. Many of them, in their stench-laden foulness,
are sodden with disease and pestilential infections. They
come from the cities of all climes. The cholera fields of
India, Egypt, and Russia contribute their quota. The
great German army used to give a large supply. The
hospitals of the world send England their refuse flannels—
flpnne's that have wrapped successive diseases till the
v ' ra j h “ entered into the very fibre of the wool,
And the unpatriotic Australian, offered good Aus-
tralian tweed, snorts at “colonial stuff,” puts the
refuse of a cholera camp to his back, and is a
P roud man.
; . *
bear this in mind where’er you go,
The funny part of life is,
That though your pockets empty be
Your heart is light as light can be
Provided that from colds your free:
fi rorn coughing and bronchitis,
1° make that blissful state endure
Use Woods Great Peppermint Cure.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
AN UNEASY THOUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If ever I’m in love, I wonder whether
I’ll grow the bore
I never was before,
And stretch old friendships to their utmost tether;
If, in my fall
Beneath my charmer’s thrall,
I’ll lose my sense of humor altogether ;
Or if my skin,
So sensitively thin,
Will tan into a hint-proof, hide-like leather—
I wonder whether.
M. M. ESSIE.


: A
A Beautiful Complexion.— Your mirror will
reflect your beauty every day after a few applications of
the wonderful skin food “ Valaze.” This marvellous
beautifier feeds the pores and reaches the seat of the
starved tissues, thoroughly cleansing and purifying,
them, thereby removing all blemishes, blackheads,
freckles, and gives to the face that clear, transparent
appearance of a healthy child’s. From childhood to old
age we guarantee you a perfect complexion. “Valaze”
is not a greasy substance, but sinks into the skin and
shows no trace except the radiant and fresh complexion ;
guaranteed not to encourage superfluous hairs. 3s. 6d.
and 6s. jar, posted 6d. extra. Ask your chemist for
“Valaze,” and take no substitute, or write to Mdlle U.
Rubenstein, 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Mention this
paper, and receive illustrated guide to beauty. ‘ ‘ Valaze ”
soap, 2s. (lasts six months); “Valaze” (aromatic) herbs,
3s. 6d. packet; “Valaze” skin tonic, cooling and
refreshing, 3s. 6d. bottle; “ Valaze ” face powder (3
tints), 2s. box. Ask your chemist for VALAZE.*
A Great Remedy. —From W. A. CAVA-
NAGH, Esq., M.A., Inspector of Schools,
Horsham: “I have found Arnold’s Balsam a
most valuable remedy in warding off and curing
colds, both in children and adults.”
Cured with three doses.—From Mr. S. C. BENNETT,
Murtoa: “My little child having a severe cold in the
head and lungs, and having heard of Arnold’s Balsam, I
decided to purchase a bottle from our local chemis-t.
The curative effect was wonderful, and it is a medicine no
one should be without. The little child was relieved the
first dose, and after three doses did not cough any more.
Please accept my thanks for having placed a genuine
medicine in the hands of the people.” Sold by all stores
and chemists. *
Mrs. Ralph Ward, (274 Collins-street,
Melbourne), artistic hairdresser and manicurist,
will make a speciality of the above for a few
weeks only at 2nd floor, Woods’ Chambers,
Moore-street, Sydney.*
The Queen’s Face Food as used by the
English Royal Family and other Royal personages
in Europe. Madam Olga has decided to place the
Queen’s Face Food upon the Australian market,
and will open, on 15th inst., Massage Boudoirs
when the proper use of this Face Food will be
taught by an efficient staff and where this cream
can be obtained. Face and neck massage a
speciality. Address : Top floor, Savings Bank
Chambers, Moore-street, Sydney.*
The Grand BALLROOM SUITE
BAUMANN’S CAF€
Now Booking Dates for the Season.
BEST CATERING. MODERATE CHARGES.
Menus and Estimates Gladly Supplied.
FALIERES' PHOSPHATINE
MAS PRECEDENCE OVER «Ll OTHER
FOODS
FOR INFANTS 4 INVALIDS
ALL CHEMISTS 4 GROCERS
sf
Are
Dress Fabrics
Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
*<
markTHE VARNISHED BOARD |
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN
gtocWt
(E)ress
SHIELDS
THE day has long past when DRESS SHIELDS were considered a
Luxury, The higher and more refined ideals associated with Dress
demand DRESS SHIELDS as a necessity. If you want DRESS
SHIELDS that are a Luxury as well as a Necessity you will ask for—
KLEINERT’S.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, Mat 9, 1905.
My Dear Arini.—
Among the social buds at the Government
House ball on Thursday were Miss Laura
Hawkins, daughter of Dr. Hawkins; Miss
Gladys Bowker, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Steer
Bowker ; Miss Owen, of the Harry Owen family ;
Miss Maekellar, daughter of Dr. C. K. Mackellar
(a young lady of literary tendencies); Miss
Grade Acheson, of the Plunkett family ; Miss
Doris M'Culloch, grand-daughter of the late Mr.
Benjamin Backhouse and niece of. Judge Back-
house ; and Miss David, brainy Professor David’s
daughter.
As a garden party the entertainment at Govern-
ment House last Thursday was a failure ; as a
water party it was a success. Nothing of the
Chopin Raindrop Prelude about that afternoon’s
weather. The storm was a savage, Wagnerian
rainstorm. Certain hospitals must be glad.
Seventeen hundred guests were catered for, and
about three or four hundred attended. The nice
foodstuffs, practically intact, were sent mostly to
the women’s hospitals. Madame Pinard, wife of
the new Consul-General for France, appeared, and
proved to be a large lady, very well-dressed in
brown chiffon over white silk, with a hat tilted
well over her eyes, crammed and massed at the
back with roses. She is by way of being an artist,
and is having a studio built at “ Brooksby,” the
house they have taken at Double Bay.
Admiralty House dance was another damp,
moist function. Guests stood around, and the
naval men entertained them with storyettes about
storms at sea, whilst sailors mopped up the stream-
ing verandahs. Admiraless was, as she is
generally, the lady in grey—the grey of the oyster
as to gown, and the grey of pearls as to gems.
Mrs. Mills, wife of the managing director of the
Union S.S. Co., who has been floating about
Sydney for weeks in a new frock a day (or there-
abouts), wore a most Undine-y robe of pale
green chiffon. Mrs. Napier, wife of the captain
of the Euryalus, is one of the ladies o’ war
who doesn’t set up to be a finger-post to fashion.
She wears quiet, creamy gowns, and her hair,
simply parted in the centre, is waved back and
innocent of stuffing or padding. You never see
her coiffure “ornamented ” with a whole pullet or
“the family fire-irons,” to quote the epigram-
matist of Rose Bay.
Charity, thy name is woman! Hospital Saturday
this year in Sydney was wet and dismal. Never-
theless man was looted by fair women from
pouring morning to sloppy eve, and most of the
gentle ’rangers (can’t very well prefix “bush”)
looked like wet birds of Paradise. They had put
on plumed hats, bright silk blouses and many-
flounced underskirts, hoping that the rain would
clear off before they started their pretty larceny.
But the ungallant rain continued to fall on the just
and the unjust alike—the Hospital sirens and the
University satyrs who were celebrating their 54th
annual commem. in perfectly superfluous asses’
ears and fools’ caps. Collection realised £4623.
It was wonderful, considering the weather.
Mrs. Fitzgerald, the local mezzo-soprano who is
always referred to by a Sydney dresser as “one
of us,” gives a concert to-morrow night. Lady
Northcote has taken a huge packet of tickets for
the trill. Mrs. F. was a guest at the Macarthur
Onslows’ place at Camden Park last year, same
time as her Ex. was there. Her voice was trained
abroad, and she has sung at “At Homes” with
Melba.
Capture of the Sydney public by Scottish
soprano Jessie Maclachlan has been sudden
and complete. The whole of our. bagpipe-and-
thistle element makes. up a big proportion of
her slaves, but they are not by any means con-
fined to that section. Not only has she an
enchanting voice, and an extra allowance of
emotional sensibility, but she has a really
“ clever ” platform manner. Every woman in the
audience feels that Jessie would enjoy her com-
pany over a cup of tea and a muffin quite as much
as she appreciates Jessie’s singing. As for the
men— — ! The singer’s exits and entrances are
made in a half-ambling, half-flying fashion that is
perilously close to cake-walk style. At present
Miss Maclachlan is young and pretty, and
not more than stone, so she can afford to frolic
in and off the boards. Just here I think of the
Albani capers under the like circumstances.
Curiously enough, the same horde of women
who kissed Paderewski, or tried to do so, be-
sieged the artists’ room between the acts, and at
the close of the concerts, to nuzzle Miss Mac-
lachlan. And they are not a kissable horde
either. The singer endured the strange kisses
with well-assumed delight. She is a clever busi-
ness woman ! Not a trace of pibroch accent has
the balladist. Only she is capable of such under
excitement. There are two pianos on the plat-
form, one tuned high to go with the organ, other
low for the voices. When the singer began
“Rule Britannia” to piano and organ accompani-
ment, hubby Buchanan, from force of habit,
played on the “low” piano. None but the
fanatical musicianlies noticed the error, but
afterwards, in the artists’ room, the lady ex-
claimed “ Awm roon’d” in lovely heathery tones.
She was so grieved that the kissing had to be
delayed.
St. Vincent’s Hospital Ball had interesting
points. The Northcotes attended it only because
the Rawsons were absent from the State. They
don’t go to charity balls in Melbourne. They
won’t go to any more here. Rather naturally, the
committees of charity balls to come are asking
“ What are they here for ? ” They are valuable as
ornaments. Then why hide their value under a
billy-can, so to speak ? Other points were the
absence of a vice-regal set, and his Ex. walking
into the hall with his own wife instead of with
Mayor Allen Taylor’s. It was a rather small ball,
but the galleries were packed with two-shilling
gazers attracted by the theatrical attractions
arranged by Mrs. J. C. Williamson. Her Ex.
summoned the executive of the ball one by one on
to the dais and had friendly chats with them.
The Kelso King girls, who rejoice in the sweet
horticultural names of Iris and Olive, have re-
cently returned from putting girdles round the
earth, and their glossy locks and complexions,
and their chiffon velvet gowns, and their devoted
paternal progenitor (if he had successfully used
somebody’s hair restorer, he might pass for their
brother) now decorate halls, balls, and first nights.
The alliterative gentleman, besides running a big
assurance co., is executor for Mount Morgan pro-
perties. His late wife was one of the legatees of
Rand of Mahonga—the Tyson of his day. But
his great wealth was divided amongst fewer heirs.
State Governor Rawson with Captain Wilson has
just worked his way back from Unbroken Hell (as
D. C. Murray called it) and other parts. They
have done some real swagging—at least, they took
billies with them and a recipe for damper, and a
summary of the controversy in the “ Aboriginali-
ties” column as to the edibleness of the ’roo and
the goanna.
When the marriage of the pretty daughter of a
big merchant to a much-entangled “ smart ” young
man took place some few years ago, everyone
vowed that the match was not made in Heaven.
Some weeks ago the young wife and her baby
went home to her mother.
Amongst latest departers for Europe are Dr.
Rundle, and daughter Ethel, who is engaged to a
man-’o-war, and will probably be married abroad.
Mrs. Rundle, who never recovered from the
shock of the killing of her son (he was A.D.C. to
Lord Roberts) in the recent S’African war, died a
short time ago.
To-day occurs the marriage of police magistrate
John Lethbridge King (one of the Gidley
Kings) to Miss Swift, a local girl-daughter of a
Wesleyan minister. Bridegroom is a widower
with two children.
Matron’s dance at A.B.C. was hon. sec’d. by Mrs.
Robert Hotham (call it Hutham, or you’ll be told
to go round by the side entrance), who, if her hus-
band had lived to succeed his father, would have
been Baroness Hotham. She is an Australienne.
Hothams claim the distinction of having had
several relatives hanged for corresponding with
the Royalists in sixteen-hundred-and-something.
In some local families the hangings were of more
recent date, and are never mentioned with any
pride.
Dancers at the Ewan Frazers’ frisk at the Aus-
tralia Hotel speak admiringly of the dancing-cloth,
a kind of holland glaze, waxed and powdered, and
stretched tightly over the carpet. The E.F.’s
have been great entertainers during the horse-
and-Easter season. He does not follow his pro-
fession of doctoring, having inherited so much of
the earth from his father. An authority tells me
that this father “left it in his will” that his
eldest son’s bride should have £l2OO settled on her.
Delightful father-in-law ! If it’s true.
Mrs. Orlando Baker’s friends gave her the
conventional dressing-bag send-off. Miss Coffee
made the presentation. Mrs. Baker takes her
son home to their Fourth of July land for educa-
tion. Whilst the Consul is absent with her the
consulate will be administered by “Steel Trust”
H. L. Jones.
Our local composer and organist, Mr. Mote,
whose compositions have been played by distin-
guished local societies, has been appointed
organist to the Torrey-Alexander mission (which
is not a circus, though it has a ring-master sound,
but a religious show). Both Messrs. Torrey and
Alexander have missioned themselves into the
affections of cocoa heiresses. An organist ought
to be able to do as well for himself, especially
with such a romantic mop of black hair as Mr.
Mote exhibits.
It’s good news by cable that, in future, our
politicians who wish to strut in Court dress may
don the “second class” instead of the third as
before. I hear that "the three classes used to be :
First class, Englishmen and Europeans; second
class, British mayors; third class, Australians
and niggers.
At Woollahra, this week, Lieutenant Ward-
rober, paymaster on H.M.S. Cadmus, was married
to Miss Page, of Hobart, Tasmania. The marriage
was hurriedly fixed up by cable through the bride-
groom’s ship being ordered off suddenly to China.
The bride—as described by her friends—is a short,
fair, sweet little thing. Bridegroom is chiefly
known for his knowledge of bridge and dancing.
Prior to his appointment on the Cadmus, he was
on the Sydney station for over three years in the
Katoomba.
National Gallery trustees, no doubt, felt when
they bought Percy Spence’s “Australian Bush-
man” (£150) that the Royal Academy had in a
sense blazed the art-trail for them. R.A. had
hung that picture with enthusiasm. Through its
sombre greens, greys, and blues rides a typical
bushie. A foal trots alongside, and a meditative
collie lopes through luxuriant grass. So well ex-
pressed is the action of the horse that it really
seems to “go ahead” through the picture. And
the sense of wind is finely done. A bright light
breaks through the wind-driven clouds and lights
up a segment of sea.
Lady Northcote pays Mr. Alfred Deakin as
well as the artist a pretty compliment by buying
the chalk-sketch portrait of the statesman. It
was done in 1900, and shows Mr. Deakin (from
the waist up) looking down, as if reading, and the
angle at which he is “ taken ” brings out the best
curves of his intellectual cranium and aquiline
nose. Their Exes, also bought a little view of
Bathurst under a gold and rose light, and a sketch
of Lord Salisbury.
Awhile ago a group of leading London hair-
dressers met and decided that the coming hair
fashion should, among other features, have “a
little bunch of curls oyer the left eye.” But hair-
dressers count little with women these individual-
istic days, when each has her hair dressed to suit
her style of face and neck. Which reminds me
that Mrs. Ralph Ward, a well-known Melbourne
artistic hair-dresser, has started a branch business
m Sydney, at Woods’ Chambers, Moore-street.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
To a certain romantic match there is a sordid
sequel. The man is indebted to his ex-landlady,
and numbers of his Melb. acquaintances, for
various little sums. Also he owes to a vast bevy
of Block flutterers explanations of his illogical
behavior —promises of constancy, vows of eternal
love. These, the Benedict told the other chappies,
were mostly breathed jocosely through the ’phone,
over the turtle soup, or on a tram-car. ‘By gad ! ’
he chuckled, 1 1 took care none of them could nail
me.’ From all accounts, lots of them would like
to hammer him, which is much the same thing.
“The marriage of a charmingly pretty divorcee
to an adorer of big banking account is very near
coming to pass. The smart little dame will lose a
wide circle of admirers when she is haltered for
better or worse, and her friends are selfish enough
to keep this view before her.
“Miss Elsie Moore gives Collins-street a treat
in the newest ocean-girded toilettes. Their
number is legion, and their variety full of char-
acter and expression. In a long, soft-tailed ruby
velvet, and a large-leafed hat with a sweeping,
melancholy plume, Miss Elsie suggests romantic
Terrace-trailing memories. In a soft clinging
black voile, with a serpentine following and
gentle frou-frou, she conveys a dream of Paris
opera matinees or Louvre flirtations.
“The Waxcellency dame, in opening a Girls’
Shelter or a meat-safe of sorts for surplus babes,
made a full-sized speech at St. Kilda, the other
day. It sounded glib as well as sincere. And the
crowd was pleased.
“ What a pity quality of audience doesn’t some-
times tell on box-office receipts instead of quantity.
At the concert given by Miss Doris Madden and
Miss Ruby Grey, last Tuesday, the Naicest rallied
to the front pews in much frill and fuss. All the
Waxcellency’s tribe rolled along, with the slow
dignity of the well-fed, to their lesser relative’s
piano-playing, and approved with the serenity one
associates with an archbishop’s blessing. Miss
Doris is a Ballarat girl, and an agile performer
on the ivory keys, but she is as yet psychically
undeveloped, and wants red corpuscles in her
play. Miss Ruby Grey achieves a sweet light
warble. She too has more style than soul.
“ ‘When a man of 60 marries a young wife he
may have children ; when a man marries a young
wife at 80 he is sure to have children.’— French.
“ ‘The papers here,’ writes out an Australian
in the Big Smoke, ‘ are full of the Tozer maid
affair. All of them leave Symon’s explanation
untouched, and go on hammering away at the sub-
ject till one is sick of it. Long columns and 4ft.
capitals are devoted to the W. A. native brutalities.
The Bulgarian atrocities are not in it. Australia
gets into worse repute every day. The notion
prevailing through the Fog now is that all the
landed proprietors are moving out, or selling out,
of good old ’roo-land and settling in this dense
hub or thereabouts. How is it possible to keep
one’s end of the stick up when these Fog journals
industriously pound away at the same untruths
whenever there’s an opportunity to besmirch the
Australian reputation ? ’
“A globe-trotter, to hand by the India, has
been talking to Marquis Linlithgow', and lunching
with Wally, and motoring with the M‘Eacharns.
He is shocked at the state of the Linlithgow
health. It is at very low ebb. So are his spirits.
Wally changes not, save that he admits, with a
humorous crease down his long nose (Better-Not’s
way of smiling), that matrimony has its allure-
ments. Miss Maggie Stirling is fat and pros-
perous, and her voice fine. The M'Eacharns are
elated at things in the hub, and keep up a glad air
of golden success.
“Mrs. Lawson, the big, showy dame whose
dressing and independent manner kept the race-
world interested for many seasons, has applied
for and secured a divorce from her hushand —the
popular Melbourne solicitor. The wrench was
made in America, and the ground of the divorce
wms desertion. The papers quoting the case have
arrived here. This decree is only Uncle-Sam
branded. It gives the plaintiff liberty, but the
defendant remains tied-up till he chooses to get
the knot severed in Australian style. Mrs.
Lawson is a Miss Cumming—a cousin of ‘Baroness’
Clarke. About 18 months ago she tripped off to
Yankee-land, and has been revolving there
breezily ever since. Solicitor Lawson is an Irish-
man, and the son of a Judge.
“Youngsters in short pinnies are to be trotted
out this season and polkaed by Eton coats. The
Mayors of Melbourne started the idea, and subur-
ban authorities have taken it up. The old girls
hoped it would be limited to public hops, but now
private entertainers have caught on to the notion.
Mrs. Emmerton set the short-frock and knicker-
bocker ball rolling one night recently, when a
smart young muster of hopefuls and a sprinkling
of good, old, seasoned polka fliers tried the new ball-
room of ‘Raveloe,’ a South Yarra mansion. It’s
bad enough for the old girls to have to struggle for
partners among the insufficient males, but to be
lassooed in to have a look at the young ’uns having
a fly round is surely gall and wormwood.
“ Bishop Clarke hasn’t much tact. He was
addressing a society of a religious sort in East
Melbourne, some time ago, and, among other
things, told the young men (recruits mostly from
bank circles or professional ranks) that he was
glad to encourage such a society and to promote
its interests, as it did good, and kept a body of
desirable young men from sinful paths and the
streets. The streets! That society has been
ferociously snorting ever since.
“Social folk rolled up in force to ‘ The Road To
Kemnare.’ There was uncommon smart dressing
on both sides of the footlights. Miss Josephine
Lovett exploits a dream of a motor garb—which
Toorak at present is keen on adopting for its own.
It is in white heavy material, with a satiny dust-
resisting surface, and it owns a coat something like
lustre, with a neat touch of black on the collar. The
head is tied up jauntily in a white felt hatlet, and a
drawn gossamer bag that leaves the face in cameo
view. Later, the attractive New Yorker of sham-
rock family associations goes picnioing in a deli-
cate muslin, and a liat equal to the exigen-
cies of day-dreaming or impromptu kiss-in-the-
ring. Another dresser of consequence is Miss
Annie Berlein, who plays with a two-ineh
thick brogue and a figure of matronly perfection
(according to straight-fronted standards).
“ Lawyers’ wives took the clothes ixonors in the
audience. Mi’s. Walter Coldham, in white and
cerulean decorations, was a leading circle flasher.
Mrs. W. Crolcer took the stall bun for a splendid
spread of black chiffons. A massive dame, made
in Germany, was clothed in leagues of scarlet
chiffon. Another invincible dame had decorated
herself profusely in parts with gorgeous azure
silks and laces, but left a fair portion bare as a
foil.
“Winning by a head the Chiffon Stakes at
Caulfield, Mrs. Edward Miller got home once
more by her invariably excellent form. Her rac-
ing colors were pink and blue—the particular
shades in both most affected by the Parisians.
Mrs. Yallange was heavily backed for a place, but
the stand judges wouldn’t pass her unsporting
scarlet-ribboned hat. A stranger to please the
eye in the trained ranks was Mrs. Blake, one of
the William Millers, just back with her young
daughter from Europe. She was trim ana
sprightly in all cream and a head-mount of black.
Mrs. Lachlan Mackinnon, in tailor-made blue and
a hat two sizes too large; Mrs. Herbert Power and
Mrs. Dick Casey were Toorak favorites who didn’t
come up to their dress form at this meeting.
“Mayor Pleasance had fat promises of hope
and encouragement to offer to the Sculptors’
Society in opening Friday’s show. A city
decorated with statuary, he argued,'represented
the highest public spirit and good taste of a com-
munity. His recommendation to the Caledonians
to raise a Walter Scott monument opposite to
that of Bobbie Burns, on St. Kilda-road, was
being adopted, and on every possible occa-
sion he’d secure statues for the beautification
of the city, and incidentally work for the chisel
and clay fraternity. At which the brotherhood
banged out their approval.
“There’s far more pigment than putty about
the present Sculptors’ Society. Under the cir-
cumstances, the term is a misnomer. Only Douglas
Richardson’s examples of statuary count any in
the show. The kharki hero, cast in prepara-
tion for a St. Kilda monument, is a good
Australian type with much human expression.
A bust of little Dr. Moloney’s mother is another
striking example of portraiture; the strong,
wrinkled old face, showing the nose of command
and, in juxtaposition (so like the sex), a mouth of
sensitive feeling and gentleness, is the most
admired contribution from the Richardson studio.
The best she-exhibitor is a daughter of the late
merchant Tuomy. Eight examples of her brush,
in waters, oils and pastels, are all in their way
clever. Miss Fabriola Tuomy is quite a young
exhibitor, and attractive into the bargain. A
Healesville Bush Fire is the most faithful repre-
sentation of hill and gums and smoke and flame
yet daubed since Loxigstaff ’s ‘ G ippsland Ablaze
canvas was hung in our National Gallery.
“Mrs. Wesley Hall is contemplating another
jaunt abroad.”
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HEALTHY GIRLHOOD
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS GIVE COLOR, STRENGTH and VIGOR.
HEALTHY girlhood is the only path to
healthy womanhood. The merging of
girlhood into womanhood lays a new tax
upon the blood —and nothing can pay
that tax but Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, for they
alone contain the elements that go to make new
blood. It is the over-taxing of the scanty blood-
supply that makes growing girls suffer from all
those headaches, backaches and sideaches —all
that paleness, weakness and weariness—all the
languor, fainting spells and nervousness —the
perverse appetite, the despondency and the con-
stant ill-health.
Unhealthy girlhood is bound to lead to
unhealthy womanhood and a life of misery.
Nothing but the blood-building qualities of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills can save a girl when first
she undertakes the tasks and trials of womanhood.
That is the time when Nature makes new demands
upon the blood supply. But Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills actually make new pure, rich, red blood,
which meets those demands with ease. In this
simple, scientific way Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills fill
a girl with overflowing health and strength.
Without them, no young woman can be fully fitted
for the duties and delights of wife-hood and
mother-hood.
“If it hadn’t been for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
I would never have reached 19,” said Miss Florence
Lynch, Wilson-street, Broken Hill. My blood
grew weak and watery, and my whole health went
to pieces. Every bit of color left my face and my
lips. My hands and feet were like blocks of ice.
Each day 1 lost strength and weight. All day
long I had a dreadful feeling of weakness. My
bade felt as if it would break, and sharp pains
shot through my side. Often I would grow sud-
denly dizzy, and reel and stagger. I looked like
one in a hopeless decline.
“I could never sleep well,” Miss Lynch went
on. After tossing about in bed for half the night,
I would just doze off—and a few minutes later
I would wake with a terrible start. My nerves
went to pieces. My brain throbbed by the hour
with splitting, nervous headaches. If a door
slammed, my heart would thump like mad, and I
could hardly get my breath. I lost all heart and
interest in' life. Day in and day out I was
haunted by the strange feeling that something
dreadful was going to happen.
“It was no use trying to build me up by
careful nursing,” Miss Lynch continued. “I
hated the sight of food. The lightest meal made
me belch wind for hours. At last I started Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. The first
box seemed to have no effect—but the next gave
me a bit of an appetite. Then my headaches
eased up, and 1 slept better. I could feel the new
blood in my veins giving me strength each day.
My nerves grew strong and steady, and the color
came back to my cheeks. Before I bad finished
five boxes I was completely cured. So it’s no
wonder I thank Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
making me one of the happiest girls in N.S.W.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills actually make new
blood. That is why they are the surest cure for
all blood diseases like anaemia, biliousness, indi-
gestion, rheumatism, lumbago, kidney and liver
troubles and skin troubles like pimples and
eczema. And for just the same reason they are
the greatest help in the world for growing girls
who need new blood, and for women who are
troubled with irregular health, especially those of
forty-five or fifty when the blood becomes deranged
again. But you must get the genuine Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People—price, 2s. 9d. a
box; six boxes, 15s. 3d. post free, from all
chemists and storekeepers, or direct by mail from
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney.
■a-ido'a
3 TV
aod
sni
MNI
tSNVmiMifCFM
PERSONAL ITEMS.
David Syme’s illness is due to a buggy
accident. A motor ran into his buggy, and he
was rendered unconscious. Then he recovered
slightly, but later had a relapse.
Justice R. E. O’Connor and Mr. G. H.
Reid were once in a Ministry together—in the
Sydney School of Arts debating olub.
Profit Dowie is said to be suffering from
some incurable complabit, and to be therefore
hiding in Texas from his Zion dupes.
Colonel Murray doesn’t find his position as
Chief Justice of New Guinea very pleasant. He
has recurring attacks of malaria, and —as quinine
doesn’t agree with his constitution —no ready
means of fighting the trouble.
According to Adelaide AdvERTiSER’s Lon-
don correspondent, young Dr. Muecke proposed
to Ada Crossley three times before he was accepted.
Cardinal Moran, who has been seriously
ill, is now slowly recovering; but reports indicate
that he will have to abandon some of his public
activity for the future.
B. R. Wise has been combating the Aus-
tralian Stinking Fish party in London by defend-
ing the Arbitration Act. Wise is one of the
exceptions, that x )roves the Australian rule—to
export the best frozen meat and the worst public
men we produce.
The late Charles Moore, the father of
Sydney’s public parks and gardens, came to
N.S.W. as an Imperial officer, and was taken
over by the State when responsible government
was established.
One ex-member of N.S.W. Assembly lias
taken out a billiard-license for a city table.
All three members of the Federal High
Court are graduates of Sydney University. The
winning of a bursary there was the beginning of
Chief J ustiee Griffith’s brilliant career.
Last year Mr. Hertzberg, as president of
Bananaland’s Chamber of Commerce, deplored the
falling off in the State’s birth-rate. This year the
members presented him with a silver cradle to
commemorate the birth of a son.
It was W. G. Higgs (now Senator and
Chairman of Senate Committees) and J. D. Fitz-
ferald who first advocated Socialism in Sydney
labor circles, bringing the subject up before the
Typo. Association.
Bertram Mackennal is showing a bronze
figure ot a dancer at the Paris Salon this year.
Suggests an infusion of novelty into Mackennal’s
work, which is represented in Australia by some
tense female figures that look incapable of any-
thing so frivolous as a dance.
Dead, in Cape Colony, Samuel Kerr, ex-
miner of Castlemaine (Vic.). He emigrated to
S’Africa some 30 years ago, and was the discoverer
of tlie famous Jagersfontein diamond mine, which
produced the world’s second largest diamond—the
Excelsior, 974-carats.
LESSEE POLLOCK, the diamond king of
Melbourne and Adelaide.
The amazing cloudy casualness of the
Australian again. An applicant for a Victorian
pension dole said he knew he was 71, and his wife
wa,s about 65 or 66. He didn’t know how many
children he had, alive or dead. He’d had two
wives.
Adelaide at present is tottering along
bereft of its Governor, who is in the Northern
Territory, its Catholic Archbishop, who is on his
way to Rome, and its Anglican Bishop, who has
gone to England, having exchanged the local see
at £l2OO a year for that of Rochester at £3Boo—a
distinct call to Above.
During the recent visit to Rotorua (M.L.)
of the King of Tonga, Wairoa geyser was to be
2fked to show off for his black Majesty. But it was
Sunday, and the king' being a-proper young man,
missionary-taught, refused to attend the cere-
mony, saying that “geysers, like human beings,
should not be made to work on Sundays.”
Presbyterians’ new Moderator is Rev.
1. R. Cairns, of St. Andrew’s Church, Ballarat.
He is an Irishman from Countv Down, and was
for seven years in Maoriland. With money of his
own, he found more with his wife, and his car-
nage-horses are the most stylish in his city.
The crier of the High Court at Melbourne,
whom Attorney -General Symon proposes to
abolish, is none other than “ Davev,” the gor-
geoiislj'-Gapamoned individual who stands in front
Ho , u ’ se ’ directing visitors to the circle
and the stalls. Davey is not very old. but he is a
on 5° U B ne ldentlt y and * reckoned an authority
0 Il’ed otll' The , stol 7 is told that once he
called This way to the circle,” instead of
declaring the High Court open ; but people who
know Davey recognise this as a libel He is a
keen student of the law anrl i ’ i 7i S a
sten« to toct *a,, A 1 llas already taken
action. 4 1 constitutionality of Symon’s
ONE WAY OF LOOKING AT IT.
BARBER (who has just sold a bottle of hair-restorer to old bald party): “ Got a rattlin'
grod 'cad for business, that old core."
The old story of the missing mace of the
Vic. Assembly has been revived by a blackmailer’s
attempt to bluff Mr. Matt Davies into paying £2OO
as the price of suppressing the full and complete
yarn. Davies placed the matter in the hands of the
detectives, but, although the matter was followed
further, the offender escaped. Letters awaiting
him at the P.O. indicate that he had other schemes
of blackmail in hand.
Last week C. 0. Kingston was well enough
to attend a meeting in Adelaide of Labor party
sympathisers with the object of welcoming the
Westralian Works Minister. There is talk of
something being done to recognise his services to
Australia, and, if he is willing, it ought to be
promptly made something more than talk.
Mr. Frank M ‘Comas, a Sydney artist who
has reached a front place among landscape painters
in America, was entertained at dinner, at Paris
House, by his friends last week. Justice Barton,
Education Minister O’Conor and artists Souter,
Lister-Lister, Ashton and Hopkins said nice things
about the painter, whose success abroad is a
proof that Australia can grow something besides
cricketers.
If the war cables are to be believed (which
is at least doubtful) General Stoessel’s defence of
Port Arthur had for its motto, “ Never surrender
while there’s a turkey left in the coop which I can
sell at famine prices. ” But the Hebrew-controlled
press has been found out in so many lies about the
Russians that it is easy to suspect a fake in the
turkey story.
Old John Higgerson, who claims to be the
oldest Australian native, is a remarkable person-
ality. At 93 he is still a ranger of National Park
(Sydney), but was laid up the other day by an
accidental gun-shot. He has been married twice,
and is the father of 27 children. He began life as
a jockey, and in the last race ever run on the old
Hyde Park course rode Mr. E. Deas Thompson’s
Tam-o’-Shanter.
Whenever the High Commissionership is
to be filled it is to be hoped that the candidate
viiose health has broken down in the arduous pur-
suit of getting and keeping office in State or
Commonwealth Parliament will be, as soon as he
shows his nose, marked ineligible. The High
Commissionership is always being canvassed as an
office which any half-dead man can adequately
fill; and it cannot be too soon insisted that the
High Commissionership is not to serve the duty of
a sanatorium for State or Commonwealth worn-
outs; the office wants vigor and vitality in prime
order.
More than 3000 people assembled at the
Toowong cemetery, Brisbane, last week, to
witness the unveiling of the “Browne memorial.”
The late W. H. Browne was one of the big men
of Queensland. Born a working-man’s son in
England, he entered the British navy as a Jack-
tar. Subsequently he worked as a miner on the
Croydon (Q;) gold field. Returned to Parliament
in the Labor interest, he joined Mr. Morgan’s
Cabinet as Minister for Mines. He died in
harness in April, 1904. The memorial unveiled
is of roughly-hewn granite, emblematic of the
honest, rugged man.
Mr. George Reid, on his brother-barrister
and anti-Socialist, Mr. Bruce Smith :
If Mr. Bruce Smith will attend the Federal Parliament
when he has no court engagements as I did, I think it is
possible that he may be there very much oftener than I
was able to be.
It is just about characteristic of Mr. Reid—the
min without a single generous impulse—to sneer
at Mr. Bruce Smith’s recent luck at the Bar,
which is to a great extent explainable by the fact
that charlatanism is supplanting solid knowledge
in other spheres than politics.
Obit George Neville Griffiths, who in
1882-85 represented East Sydney in the Legis-
lative Assembly. He was one of those of whom
Henry Parkes on one occasion loftily said, “Hi
’ave seen five ’undred such pass through this
Chamber and • leave no mark.” The colleagues of
Mr. Griffiths were Edmund Barton, G. H. Reid,
and Henry Copeland. Of the 113 members in
that House, but the odd three remain, R. H.
Levien, Win. M‘Court, and “Spud” Young. Of
the nine Ministers of that day, Mr. Cohen is on
the N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench, and Mr. G. H.
Reid is Federal Premier.
“ Jerong ” writes :
News that Lou Byers (B. 20/4/’O5) has dropped in for
£15,000 will be hailed with joy by many an old digger.
And what memories his name brings back of the “roar-
ing days ” of Hill End and Tambaroora, when scrip was a
burden to carry, and most Hill Enders did not know
what to do with their money ! “ Northumberland ”
(Jimmy Brown) bought the Royal Hotel, Sydney, for
£lB,OOO. “ The Jingler” (Jerry Dwyer) built a big hotel
on the Hill, a white elephant. Sammy Holman (Paxton
and Holman) built Coyle’s Hotel—a good spec, at the
time, but no good to Holman. Jack M'Laughlin bought
the goodwill of the Flower Pot Hotel, York-street, Syd-
ney (“ Too much trouble calling and paying for drinks.
Help yourself; that’s my style,” said Jack). N. Lambert,
who won a ton of gold in his time, easily got through
it. And there were many more of the same stamp. When
the roads and streets were in a state of bog, Louis and
Holterman put men on at two-ten a week to repair them.
H. Oxenham and his mate, “ Ruggy Bill,” worked on the
job.
The Rev. Canon Potter preached his fare-
well sermon (on the last day of April this year) at
All Saints’—the ivy-covered, picturesque Gothic
old edifice in Chapel-street, St. Kilda. It’s 11
years ago since Bishop Goe appointed the Rev.
Potter to that High Church incumbency,'against
the wishes of some of the parishioners, who were
wild at getting such an elderly parson. A large
body of parishioners went over to the rival Low
Church establishment right away, blit it didn’t
make much difference to the Canon, for, through
the advertisement of the row, and his own curious
personality, he drew overflowing crowds for some
time. When a needful fillip was wanted to jog
things along he’d dash iiVo a Rentoul or Arch-
bishop Carr controversy.
“W.8.W.”: Homer nods. There never
was a Fellowes, C.J., in Victoria. The Yic.
C.J.’s were A’Beckett. Stawell, Higinbotliam, and
the present Madden. Fellowes was one of the
leaders of the bar in the days when Dawson,
Michie, Aspinall, Ireland, Sitwell, and Evans
were raking in the plentiful shekels of those auri-
ferous times; but he saw the days of the profes-
sional amalgam were come, and his aristocratic
instincts made an offer of a Judgeship welcome.
He was a big, ponderous Saxon, over 6ft. high,
and his speech had no oratorical grace, but went
straight to the point, bubbling often with quiet
humor. I used to think he might be a son of a
tall fox-hunting Fellowes I had seen riding to
hounds in Hampshire when he resided at Hurst-
bourne House as guardian of a lunatic earl.
During the recent visit of Federal mem-
bers to Westralia, G. H. Reid attended a
smoke-night, in Kalgoorlie theatre. Thinking,
like most people, that Reid gloried in his alleged
funniness. Mayor Norbert Keenan asked Yes-No
to “say something to amuse the company.” Reid
exploded like a twelve-inch shell. Parliamen-
tarians who were there say that he never showed
half so much rage in the fiercest Federal debate.
Yes-No protested against being considered a sort
of political burnt-corkist, and attacked Keenan
with fury. “You ask me to be funny,” he said ;
“ why, your Mayor is the funniest thing I’ve ever
seen,” and so on. Daglish, Premier of W. A., was
on the platform, and endeavored to smooth
things, but without avail. Reid sat fuming all
the evening.
Some more “ firsts ” :
Tasmania’s first farmers (100 years ago).—Richard Pitt,
Thomas Thistle, Blinkworth, Thomas Hayes, Cockeril,
Preston, Dacers, Henry Hayes, and Littlefield.
Sydney’s first police force, appointed 7th August,
1789.—Charles Peat (a life prisoner), William Hubbard,
John Coen Walsh, John Neal, Wm. Bradbury, Thomas-
Oldfield, Stephen Le Grove, John Archer, and Herbert
Keiling (7 years men).
LOOKING AHEAD.
MOTHER (to eldest girl, aged 11): “Minnie, you
ought to give your toy engine to your little
brother. You’re getting too old for such
things now.”
MINNIE: “I was thinking whether to give it to
him or keep it for my own little boys.”
Australia is getting to be a great country
for Platonic attachments, although none of its
climates is c( nsidered very favorable to the
growth of mild sentimentality. A clever visiting
actress, who happens also to be a grass-widow,
devotes some of her spare time to the task of
reforming reckless young men. She sits beside
her “bad case” like a spiritual and tells
him to be good, whilst he presses her hand gently
in token of submission. If the patient is married
she undertakes his cure with special enthusiasm
for the salce of his poor, dear wife.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’* Waverley Brewery, Agents.
A little hoy, a water-hole,
A little slip, upon my soul,
He sinks again—l reach a pole,
And pull him to the brink !
A little cot, a mother’s care,
A little “ tot,” a smile—ah ! there,
“ Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure,” I deolare!
It’s just the stuff to drink !*
FALIERES’ PHOSPHATINE
A Valuable adjunct to Infantile Dietary,
rarencs who would rear Strong Children, and arolt
tIM troubiea incidental to Teething, should an It.
ftfOS/VfATMte
TAM
FOOD FOR INFANTB A INVALIDS
iT.r, Ohuciri axb 9uan. i
Aboriginalities.
“The Carrier,” from back o’ Westralia:
At the starting of the first battery here the blacks
all stood in line, laughing and trying to keep time
to the drop of the stamps with their lips and feet.
Finally, when the pace had got too hot, the driver
let off a wild snort of steam, from the blow-off
pipe, in their faces. They fell over each other in
their rush away, completely demoralised by an
unearthly yell from the siren as they fled. They
treated that battery with respect afterwards.
* * * *
“S.S.S.” (who confesses frankly she is a
pretty girl): The Bushman isn’t given to lo-
quacity, is he? Up Gundagai, last week, I struck
a flock of travelling sheep. Drover looked nice.
I reined in my horse and coo-ed. “G’day.” He
said “G’day.” “Dusty?” “Ya-as.” “Going
far?” “Ya-as.” “Whereto?” “Yass.” “So
long.” “Ya-as.” And he went.
ALBUM VERSE.
The cat and the man and the terrier dog,
They played a waiting game;
AU night they stayed, and watched and prayed
For the rat which never came.
“ C.J.D.” : The name Nhill did not origi-
nate as stated by Horsham Star (quoted B.
(i/4/’O5). Mr. Belcher, who first took up land in
that district, told me that the word is simply the
nearest lie could get in spelling to the native
name, as given by the blacks.
’ * * *
“ A.E.P.” : I read in B. 13/4/’O5 that
want of wind prevents a cow from kicking. Non-
sense! I’ve had a cow kick 14 different sorts of
«nnt nff ino—after slip had hrnken the row-record
spot' oft me—alter sue liaa Dioken tne cow lecora
for two miles, and naan t enough wind lett to
wobble the hair on her top lip.
* * * w
“ Vern ” : Be jibbing horses. The best cure
IS a cuttle-dog that will bring blood at every bite,
,°* % »
‘ ‘ W T Gr ” on household pets •
Girls are the most troublesome of all home pets. Nearly
all the trouble which fanciers have with these pets comes
from a failure to recognise the fact that girls .are the
young of women. It is one of those scientific truths that
we simply have to face ; it has been proved by observa-
tion that girls ultimately become women. However
much we may regret it, we must expect to find several
poults of similarity between girls and women. For
instance, some women play the piano. It is a rare thing
to find a girl who does not play with a piano. A fancier
should expect this, and need not grow'nervous or question
the girl’s sanity when he sees her shedding her scales. By
all means give a girl a piano; you can depend on her
ton of the niano e 6
you may see sparks flying-or you may not; inifggra’.
vated cases the pedals can be amputated. If a girl,
of her own accord, takes to playing a common waltz,
there is, of course, something out of gear. But don’t
give up hope before you get at the root of the evil. An
impatient fancier might shoot the girl at once to put
her out of her misery. Now, with the kindest intentions
in the world, he might still be making a mistake. Do not
kill the girl until you are sure she is quite incurable.
Girls generally play waltzes because they are easier than
dns-ical music ; get another girl to tell her that, and she
will never play one again. She is sure to say bitter things
about the otiier girl’s hat or dress, but this cannot be
helped. It is only one of the many distinct points of like-
ness between girls and women.
“Fool”: He food-fads (B. 20/4/’0o) :
Those who can’t get food don't have any fads
about it. A while back I was prospecting (for
gold). Tucker ran out; local grocer and butcher
stopped “tick”; only the baker stuck to me.
Ate all available grub in camp; went to the shaft
and got the tin of windlass-fat, scraped off the
dirty part, and made the remainder last me two
days as butter on bread. Then got some sow-
thistles, boiled and ate them with salt and pepper.
Put in a few weeks working hard, too, and had no
fads, except to put a drive in far enough to reach a
supposed gutter.
* * * *
“Alma ” : I have a retriever dog who is a
decided epicure. He can be safely left alone with
any kind of meat or game except squatter-pigeons.
When these are in question he becomes utterly de-
moralised. Coming home once from a day s shoot
I had in the buggy 50 or (10 head of ducks, geese,
and pigeons—also the dog. On arrival we found
the villain had sorted out all the pigeons and de-
voured them, and them only. His demurely un-
conscious expression might have carried him
through but for the damning evidence of pigeons’
feathers stuck all over him. .Retribution followed ;
but in vain. On this one point he is a “born
criminal.”
* * * *
“ 0.” writes :
I fancy a little exact science will be good for The Bulle-
tin. There’s been far too much imagination in its columns
lately. Ben and me accompanied a geological expedition to
Kiama on the Thursday before Kaster. We concluded that
it was better to get our drinking bout over that night, so
we would be ready for work next morning. Next morn-
ing work began at Bombo quarries. It was very interest-
ing—we heard. We were in bed. Kiama is remarkable
for its horses. They walk about the streets and nod to
people that they know ; at least, that was my impression.
Ben and me made friends with two of them. A few
nights afterwards Ben and me had a row. He wanted me
to go to bed ; said that was the proper place for a man in
my condition. So I cleared out. Hadn’t gone far when 1
met the horse I had chummed up with. I put out my hand
and said “ Good night, old horse,” and I nearly tumbled
down with astonishment when the horse replied : “ Good
night, Mr. O. What are you doing out so late i 1 ” The horse
must have noticed how startled I was, for he said I’d
better come for a walk. Told me his name was Carbine,
and that he had won a Melbourne Cup once. Just when
we came to a pub, I was going in for a beer, wdien Car-
bine reminded me that Ac had a mouth on him, too, and
asked me to send him out a pint. Said he didn’t like to
go into the bar as there was no room to turn. I w'ent in,
and the publican took out the pint; when he came back
he was laughing fit to split, and next day I found out that
Ben had been on the other side of Carbine all the time.
Geology is a very interesting study, but it has its draw-
backs.
• * * *
The dismal veracity of science has now
taught that our great Australian gum is about the
one tree in the world which should not be called a
“gum.” The exudation from the bark of the
eucalyptus, which won for it the name of “gum,”
is, it seems, not a gum at all, but “an astringent
exudation of a tannin in combination with a
sugar.” Bush poets will please note to write in
future of the weird melancholy of the astringent
exudation forest, and to hear the weird moaning
in the tannin.
Harry Stock dale : Some little time back, a
couple of writers questioned the correctness of my
assertion in The Bulletin that the aborigines did
not sanction the marriage of those closely allied
by blood, such as first-cousins. I wish now to add
the support of a statement from Tom Petrie’s
“ Reminiscences of Early Queensland ”
For a woman who was about to become a wife, there
was no painting- up of the body, neither was there any
particular ceremony or rejoicing of any kind. The
aborigines, however, were most strict and particular
with ~e ffard to their lllai . r j age Jaws-indeed, they would
not dream of allowing things we do. For instance, ; man
might not even marry any of his former wife’s relations,
and those we call cousins or second-cousins were quitfe
out of the question. Marriages were generally arranged
without the contracting parties having any say whatever
in the matter, and a man w ould often so get a wife from
a trd)e ot^el ' than his own, though this was not necessary.
“GF ” • Ah a nnnltrv farm T wao „„„„
V* * * , , a poultry UllU, 1 MRS once
covering l roof of house with corrugated iron,
I here had been no ram for a generation. The
ducks were moving around in the usual listless
W ay, with the old drake in the van, looking for
anything wet. Suddenly the drake lifted his
. . , ~ -
T? ve . < J excitedly, then took a flying run,
followed by the whole flock, and dived on top of
three or four sheets of iron spread out together on
the ground. He went through the whole perform-
ance of “ducking” in shallow water, came out
a S ain ’ fla PP ed his win S s > then did usual
Pjeening business, followed by the harem. Think
°i the magnificent natural resources of a country
where a drake finds it so long between drinks that
he forgets what water is like, and doesn’t know it
f rom the shimmer of galvanised iron !
„,° „ .
t(TJ n ,, T , ow _
H.G. :In o 7 I Was helping to “ drove ”
25,000 ewes from the Darling to the Northern
Territory. We had 22 dogs, mostly good workers
f i.,, ~i,a,„ J ,■ ,
_ , _ L 1 10u ’ " ‘icn the temperature was high
at ? ( work heavy, was a three-quarter bred dingo,
a bad-tempered brute, but impossible to knoclc-up.
He bad been 11 years at the game.
CRUEL TO BE KIND.
MRS. PHBLICHOUSE: “ Oh, it’s all right, Mister.
Pete's bin dr inkin', an’ thinks he’s a bullock,
an’ Bill's doin' that to humor him—out o’
kindness, you know."
‘ ■ Q. ” : While crossing a ram-paddock t’other
day, I witnessed something extra in the way
of ram fights. The woolly combatants, each with
sudden death in his eyes, retreated from one
another for a space of about 20 feet. Just then a
wagtail came along, and alighted, chirping airily,
on the ground between the sports. Next moment
a dull crash rent the sulphur-laden atmosphere,
and the first round was completed. When the
clouds lifted I looked for the wagtail. But
although L did not find him, I saw the ram’s
retire with blood and dead bird on their fore-
heads. I walked over to pick up the pieces, and
found poor willy had been battered out as flat as
a pancake. Have often heard of two birds being
killed with one stone, but this is the first case I
know of where one bird was killed by two sheep.
• * * »
“H.G.”: Have known of only one per-
fectly tamed wombat. A settler at Glinkin, near
Jenolan Caves, some years ago had one which
would follow the missus about like a dog. A
special house, in the shape of a built tunnel, was
provided for him, but he preferred to camp under
the house, which was very inconvenient, because,
when “ wotnby ’’ heard the dining-table being
prepared for a meal, he took a short-cut to the
room by heaving up a flooring-board with his
back.
* * * *
“ A.W.N.” : Was astonished recently to
see a rabbit at the trunk of a tree frantically try-
ing to get a foothold. I got
within 10 yards, and saw, about
oft. up the tree, a goanna about
2ft. long eyeing bunny with
equanimity. Presently the go.
descended, and was immediately
attacked by the rabbit, which
kept jumping at the reptile,
striking with the hind-feet.
This went on for about 3min.,
when the go. reached a box-
tree and fled up it. The rabbit
then retreated to a burrow. My
idea is that the go. was after
bunny’s babies, and bunny was
defending the home.
* * *
“ Gipps ” : Had a chicken
that choked itself, the other
day, by swallowing a young
snake, Bin. long. The bird got
Sin. of the reptile into its crop.
The aspiring barn-door fowl
should not try to emulate the lordly kookaburra.
* * * *
“ Vigilans ” : Kimberley (W.A.) is a place
white men should be careful of going to. The
country is practically in the hands of huge syndi-
cates, which employ Asiatics and niggers, while
the white humps his bundle. On the Fitzroy one
Westralian firm has 3,000,000 acres and 100,000
sheep. Except at shearing time this property is
worked by three whites and a horde of blacks.
But Kimberley is not for sheep. They average
from 25 to 401 b. dead weight, and give
wool. The large cattle runs are not half stocked,
and there are no fences. At Yeeda Station there
are 20,000 head browsing on millions of acres. The
owners live in Scotland, and have a manager,
bookkeeper, and two stockmen. A splendid tract
of country round the Leopold flanges is practically
lying idle. No doubt Kimberley is good country
for cattle-raising, and that’s about all you can say
for it. Closer settlement is what it wants. With
a 100,000-acre selection a man would be all right.
Horses will not flourish. They contract a peculiar
fever, and fully 30 per cent, perish yearly.
Malaria is one of the curses. This year 11 men
succumbed. You meet some sad human wrecks
in Derby and on the track. There’s no pity, and
not much help, for the white in the Black North.
“ F.C.”: The
farmer is kind to
bis horse; 0 yes!
About a year ago,
travelling an un-
used bush lane in
the hilly country
of N. E. Mel-
bourne, I came
across a bay mare
lying on her back
in a rain-formed
gutter, and un-
able to roll out of
it. Tried to prise
her out, but
couldn’t. Went a
mile out of my
way to tell the
adjacent farmer,
whose mare it
proved to be, and
offered to give
him a hand o get
her out. “ Oh,
the boys’ll be
home this even-
ing ; they ’ll go
down, if she isn’t
up before then.”
Thoughtconsider-
able, but said
nothing. Last
week was down
the same track,
and stumbled
across the skele-
ton of a horse in
the same spot. Inquiries showed
the “ boys ” —yOuiig men over 20
—had postponed the job for a
week, when, of course, the miser-
able animal was dead. But then
they went down and got the
hide.
“ Jab ” : When the so-
called native cat gets among
young chickens he slaughters ruth-
lessly, eating, usually, only the
head, neck and breast of each victim.
Have known him to kill and so treat
13 in one night. The screech of an
ancient fowl tackled by a native cat
is almost human. The “cat” always
approaches from the rear, and, springing on
ehook's back, seizes the neck just below the head.
Few fowls live to cackle about the episode after-
wards.
* * * »
“Snell” : The lockup-keeper of a Gipps-
land town Complains that he cannot keep the
goats out of the cell, which is in need of repairs.
Which reminds me of Simpson, on the Piper.
Simpson was the Piper policeman, its only one.
The Piper watchhouse was not a very substantial
structure, to begin with, and as Piper drunks were
large, hairy, horny men, it presently began to
yield to internal pressure and succumb to wear
and tear. Then Simpson started stirring up the
nearest authorities. He wrote many reports
explaining the difficulties he experienced in hold-
ing his prisoners, and finally, losing patience, he
sent along a spirited document, which I edited for
him. Briefly put, it ran : “If the watchouse is
not repaired, I shall have to chain my prisoners to
a tree. As it is, I cannot keep the drunks turned
out of Mahon’s hotel from breaking into the cell
and sleeping there. Sometimes their snore keeps
me awake all night. The watchhouse is becoming
notorious as a resort of disorderly characters. ’
That last touch did it, and a brick cell was built
at the Piper.
BEE ITEM.
THE CITY YOUTH : “My ! ain't ’is legs 'ot ?”
“ Sto ” : An unquestionable case of animal-
suicide. At a place near Rylstone (N.S.W.) re-
cently, a cow was separated from her calf and sent
to an adjoining dairy. Twice she returned to her
calf, and on being for the third time driven away
she ran to a small water-hole and held her head
under water until she suffocated—in spite of the
efforts of several men to drag her away.
CAGED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As 1 passed by the Golden Gate
(The dream may yet come true),
I asked to see an ancient mate
Who was a saint, I knew.
For he was always good and kind
When he was here below,
And left no bank-account behind
When came his time to go.
He loved to rove the earth around,
Just at his own sweet will,
And when they put him underground
Mine eyes with tears did fill.
St. Peter, glorified and gaunt,
Looked at me far from gay,
And said, “ I hope you do not want
To lure your friend away.”
My old friend, through the Gate’s gold bars,
In whispers talked to me.
His halo shone with seven stars :
1 le wore it carelessly.
It did me good to look at him—
My glorified old mate.
“ Arid how do you like Heaven, Jim ?”
I asked him through the Gate.
I thought—but that could hardly be—
T heard him heave a sigh,
And fancied that he looked at me
With envy in his eye.
“ In here,” he said, “ is Joy unknown
On earth, beyond a doubt—
But, oh,” he murmured with a groan,
“ Old man, 1 can’t get out /”
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROR.


sfd
WOLFE’S Schnapps
MEANS BUSINESS WHEN IT TACKLES
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES;
Solid Silver Presents
For
Weddings
Abound in
our stock .
We specialise in SILVER GOODS suitable for WEDDING PRESENTS.
Culled from each of England’s great'makers.
Bought for Cash.
Bought in large quantities.
They cost us the lowest price possible. Hence we sell them at absolute
. LONDON PRICES ONLY—plus duty.
There is no questioning the quality of Hall-marked Silver.
Silver-mounted Reliable Clocks,
286
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS;
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street
SUNDAY CLOSING AT THE MINES.
DICK: “Mow'd it happen to Fogarty
JIM: “He was blind drunk on Sunday, and walked right into
the shaft.”
OLD STEVE: “ They shouldn't be allowed to be open on Sundays.”
DICK: “ What ? The pubs ?”
OLD STEVE: “No, you, fool, the shafts.”
“A.P.R.”: The inebriate who pervades
the bush drunkery has a profound scorn for city
manners. Struck a wayside pub one hot, dusty
evening, and inquired for the
bath-room. The publican sar-
castically observed that “ he
would have had one built if
he’d known I was coinin’,”
and showed rue to the horse-
trough. Several drunks, who
were listening, appeared to
regard my desire for water as
a personal grievance, and for
hours afterwards they kept
on remarking loudly: “It’s
time yer went an’ ’ad yer
bath, Bill,” or “Wait till I
finish curlin’ me ’air.” Later
on, when they found I had
placed my boots outside my
door to be polished, they
came and pulled off my
blankets to examine me closer.
I kicked one in the stomach,
and threw the rest outside
before they realised things;
but 10 minutes later they re-
turned with a bottle of
whisky, and explained that
they had thought I was a “ blarsted new-chum.”
“Harry”: T’other day a farmer in the
Lebrina (Tas.) district was called away from h's
work and forgot all about his team of bullocks,
which reuHiined yoked-up till somebody happened
on them three days later; How’s that for the
traditional patience of the ox ?
* * * *
Re horse-endurance. Twenty-
five years ago, when I was “ brumby-running ”
on Lower Macquarie, 11 horses were inadvertently
confined in a yard for 17 days without food or
water, and when liberated all but one (a foal)
recovered. In same district a boundary-rider left
his hut for Walgett, leaving a horse shut up in a
yard to be ridden next day ; but it was 11 days
before he got back, and the prad, which during
that time had no further sustenance than what he
could get off a small mulga tree, was able, four
days later, to carry a heavy man 47 miles.
* * * #
“ V.B. : Know a painter who, when very
jim-jammy and dead-broke, takes a stiff dose of
copal varnish, and says there’s no pick-up to come
near it.
“ San Remo ” : lie jib-
bing horses (B. 13/4/ U;>).
Knew a carter who employed
an ingenious method of cure.
In his paddock was a large
gum log about 3ft. in dia-
meter. This he had eoar-
fully padded with chaff-bags,
&c., and when lie had a
chronic jibber to treat he
harnessed him to a stronger
horse with the log between,
and set them scratch-pulling,
so that if the jibber didn't
pull well he got a capsize
over the log. After this had
happened a few times, the
jibber always altered his
mind and pulled like a Tro-
jan. Never knew the plan to
fail or to injure a horse.
“ 15.” : The roley-poley
plant of the Australian in-
terior has its counterpart in
the rolling weeds or tumble
weeds of the Arizona desert,
which, when dry. are sent on
their travels by the first high
wind. Like ordinary com-
mercial travellers, they drop
their seeds as samples while
on the road. Should they be
held by some obstacle and
their roots get covered, the
plant will revive and again
bear seed until once more
carried off by wind in the
dry season. By these means
the desert, with an annual
rainfall of 4 or 5 inches, is
continually replenished with
stunted shrubs.
» « *
“ W.L.D.” : Re music-
loving frogs. In a house in a
Sydney suburb the baby’s
cradle was near a window,
just outside of which stood a
rack of ferns, and for nearly
12 months, as soon as the
mother began to croon her infant to sleep, a green
frog came plunk against the window-pane from
amongst the ferns, and remained while the
lullaby lasted. If the child were fretful, however,
and interrupted the programme, the greenery*
yallery one’s sensibilities were hurt, and he retired
in disgust.
* » * *
“Long ’Un ” : At a certain hush railway
station of Maoriland, the method of collecting
mailbags is primitive. A certain wild and raw
collector, or “train agent,” to give him his proper
title, was instructed how to pick up a mail-bag as
the train moved gradually past the station at a
slowness of ten miles an hour. He was told that
the postmaster would hold out the bag for him,
and he was duly impressed with the necessity of
gripping it hard. “Else,” said his instructor,
“ you’ll hear the Devil yell as soon as the Old Man
learns that the bag has been missed.” At one
station the postmaster, a careless individual with
a torrent of whiskers, had neglected to bring with
him any light. The night was as black as a land
agent’s soul, and as the train passed - slowly
through the station the collector held out his hand
wildly auj grabbed what he thought was the bag.
The bag resisted and made furious objurgations,
but the resistance was overcome. Later on, when
there was only a handful of whiskers to show
instead of a mailbag, the P.M. could be seen
radiant in a cloud of adjectives, and he looked like
the centre of a blue conflagration.
QUALIFIED.
BOSS: “ Yes, you scum pretty smart, and if you
knew something of our lusiness methods I'd
engage you right away.”
APPLICANT: “ Well, I know a lit It of them.
I've been engaged to your typewriter nearly
three months .”
“D.”: Struck a hut near Douglas Park
(N.S.W.) once. A wire line joined at the ends
circled the humpy ; and to an iron ring on the
wire a large, bilious-looking bulldog was chained.
He could race right round the hut and defend it
from attack on all sides. Once the police missed
the owner, and, supposing he might be dead,
attempted to search the hut, but that merry-go-
round bulldog kept them at bay for an hour. Then
a cocky threw him a junk of meat, and while bully
stopped to take a bite the policemen cut the wire,
and holding an end apiece fled up two adjacent
trees. They tied the wire high up, leaving a
frantic dog on the ground in such a position that
he couldn't move either way without climbing a
tree. Then they went in to look for the tragedy,
and found the dog’s owner was merely drunk. A
series of dog stories told by the country policeman
would be interesting reading.
MISS JEANETTE BAUER—a specimen of
woman's physical development, prize-winner
at the great American physical-culture show.
“G.F.G.H.”: “ Maorilander” (B. 16/2/’O5)
errs in stating that it was the Maoris who brought
down the shearing-rate. It was “white” men
who, when the reduction was projected, cut-in
and secured the stations at 17s. (id., and the
Maoris, sooner than lose the sheds permanently,
accepted the reduction the following season, and
have had them ever since. The “ haughty
squatter ” is not hound by any ruling of the Arbi-
tration Act, as no one has ever been brought before
it in the North Island. If the Maoris are such
cheap workers, how is it that in the South Island,
where practically all the shearing is done by
pakehas, the price is much lower than in the
N.I. ? The truth is that the Maoris are good
unionists, and are quite independent, having their
homes to go to if the work does not suit them.
The boozing white man is the real enemy of
unionism in this country, as he is at the employers’
mercy.
J * * * *
Re star-seeing in daylight.
The white man, as a rule, has had no eye-training
on long-distance horizons ; nigger gets his on
plain and hill country. I have myself seen stars
in the day-time, after an aboriginal had pointed
them out, but not until I had keenly concentrated
my sight on the point.
“ Timbarra ” : Re “F.’s” eulogy of
rabbiting as a desirable and remunerative calling
(B. 27/4/’O4). Compared with wallaby-shooting,
rabbit-trapping is degrading slavery. You have
to wade through a sickening amount of blood and
slaughter to earn £2 10s. a week at it. Also, a
rabbiter trapping for carcases is tied to time, and
soon wearies of the monotonous day-and-night
drudgery. Now, wallaby-shooting is clean; one
never tires of the sport; and with skins up to
2s. 6d. one can earn in two hours more than any
rabbiter could in a day and a night. This season
men are earning £4 a week at the game.
* * * *
“Ham” : In Ecliuca recently, I knew a
rabbiter do-in a £146 cheque in five days. When
not too drunk, he’d drive round collecting the
dead-beats in a four-in-hand turn-out decorated
with rabbit skins. Knew of a man from Bal-
ranald (N.S. W.) who earned a fencing cheque of
£lOO-odd in a few months, and started off for
Queenscliffe. He got pubbed up near Swan Hill,
and, after a three nights’ spree, strayed into the
bush and went to sleep. Woke up half mad, and
walked 50 miles towards his last job, under the
impression that he was heading back to the pub.
Biggest modern dual cheque that I know of was
for £3OO ; and that lasted only a week in a shanty
which didn’t carry £lOO-worth of stock. Will
some lamenter dry his tears, and tell me how
these figures compare with those of “ the days
when cheques were big ” ?
* * » *
“ H.G.” : I don’t notice that any of your
“ Abo.” gourmets have sampled the flesh of the
hedgehog. While I was working with a railway
gang near the M‘Donald River (New England),
butchers’ meat was very hard to get, so various
wild creatures were tried ; and one evening, having
nothing else to use, we ventured on a hedgehog.
Skinned and well-seasoned it was palatable enough,
and during the next couple of months we accounted
for five more “pricklies” in the same way.
* * * *
“Ham”: The police-station garden was
in need of its autumn attention, and the force
looked round. The best man for that job was old
Bob Brown, so Robert soon did enough to get a
week. They told him if he made a good job of it
they would set him up with half-a-sov. when he
left. He got the 10s. But now you daren’t men-
tion “cabbages” in hearing of the force in that
Vic. township. For Robert, who had some scores
to work off, took the precaution to bite off the
roots of the vegetables before he planted them.
CHUCKIN’ SMILES AT ME!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We all crop troubles round our way,
As the folks ain’t slow to tell;
’Tis rarely a taste o’ Heaven we get,
But often a whiff o’ hell 1
Though fishermen grim grow bent and grey,
I’m a contrast, my mates ag'ree ;
An’ it’s jest because, when I get home,
My wife chucks smiles at me 1
When the locusts stripped my tater patch,
An’ wallabies nipped my corn ;
When drought woes veined my every dream,
And my world looked all forlorn ;
My lips would pucker, an’ bitter tears,
As salt, as salt as the sea,
Would bubble up—but only until
My wife chucked smiles at me 1
Only a handful my little wife is,
But of sterling stuff she’s made ;
She’s bested trouble these twenty years
An’ never once been afraid ;
She rolls up her sleeves when the larder’s low,
No lass more willin’ you ’ll see ;
But the best qf the work she does is when
She’s chuckin’ her smiles at me !
vie.
NYMSIE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
jYo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insnficiunUy stamped. Annie and
address must appear on ,\IS. Ad liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in; and in
no case will MS. he returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Sit>i: Presume that that Frenchman had got hold
some idea that any Australian shepherd appearing- in
p ihlic without ills dog- had ipso facto eaten the animal.
The misconception is extraordinary, hut not mischievous.
. ...Ethos: You miss the point, which was not that
“ religious revivalism can do iar good, ’ hut that it, on the
whole, does more harm than g00d.... K. Linnemami .
Yes, for real experts of original ideas ; for the rank and
file the market in both places i s'overcrowded. The same
rule applies to most callings of that character. The man
who feels that he can do something out of the ordinary
should come to the big cities ; the man of ordinary talents
finds an easier life in smaller communities Louis M. :
You can’t kiss .Maggie much when Maggie is milking;
I'ollie would proha ily resent it with her hind leg ...
Myrtle : You’ve noticed the working bullock “ step with
eager grace ”to his yoke. What had you been drinking ?
Nix : Two lines worth giving:—
If a temptation appear, God, let me slay it,
Let me, above all, O Lord, he game.
.T. : What is the practical use of a secular newspaper
discussing a birth 2000 or so years ago? There are enough
birth problems of this century....lioake : ‘.‘To define
liberty ” is rather a large order: hut if you note, in the
first, place, that “liberty” is to be distinguished, from
“ license ’’—liberty being the freedom to do right, license
the freedom to do wrong—you'll have got near to a work-
ing definition : “ Libel .‘y is an exercise of human rights
compatible with a respect for the rights of others.”
Grocer : (1) Register at nearest Petty Debts Court (free)
within seven days of date, also in Supreme Court, Sydney
(fee 2s. Oil.), within 30 days. First will protect you
against small debts judgments, second against bank-
ruptcy, also District Court and Supreme Court judgments.
(2) There is only one registry for stock mortgages—in the
Registrar-General’s office, Sydney. Consult the Act for
necessary form and procedure... .Viking : Don’t care to
discuss the free admission of aliens to Australia as
even a possibility. That isn’t a problem to he talked
of: it’s a disaster to he averted at any cost....
Sawdust King ; Lumbering verse and general lack of
brightness J.A.D. : Very flat finish Peter: Pretty,
hut out of our line.... W.N.J. : A few good points in
it....M.F. : Too essayish for B Holder: Always give
date of issue referred t 0... .G.W.A. : Fine feeling for
Nature ; otherwise crude... .Peg-: Not quite skill enough
in the working-out... .Nulla : A trifle dull and prosy....
Amateur: Moderate descriptive power.... San Remo:
The bottle-tree question has already been threshed out in
Tim Bulletin Cody: Marsupial meat is “off.”
Ban-acker: No need for trepidation, though it’s not
up to the mark... .O.A.W. : Very true, but very trite....
Oim : Falls flat P.Q.F. : Too crude V.B. : “ Yankee
Bill” not compact and pointed enough Bob: Inferior
workmanship.. ..It.H.G. : Doesn’t reach the level.. ..
Nymsie: “Do horses reason?” Now pretty generally
held that the intelligence-difference between human and
brute is merely one of a degree—not of kind... .E.L.T. :
Very mild humor..... Itan': Hardly worth print
Sto : Looks all right on paper, hut fear that it wouldn t
work Eric (S’Africa): Poetry not up to our level
C.11.D. : Send it straight, on to the girl W. Wood:
Your “ humorous verse ” hasn’t a sparkle.... Mars : Verse
too grandiloquent... .Ernest C.: Graceful enough, but
with no raison d’etre W.J.S.: Same answer The
Cvnic : Aftermath tails oft’ at the finish C.L. : The old
gentleman left several stalwart sons, who, we believe, are
all doctors save one, who is a veterinary surgon—a dogtor,
in fact C.H.D. : All excellent, but all said before, and
no particular reason for saying again at this moment.
M. : of course, lie’s a “local preacher” and a J.P.
But how can one escape that in S. Aus?....T.M. : Too
crude Les Lee : Yarn improved; hut still not up to publi-
cation mark. It shows good promise, and that is all
J.A.L. : Hardly up Robin: “ Mustering ’’doesn’t round
up its ideas Ray col : Humorous possibilities of the first
smoke been long ago exhausted by hards with bigger feet
than yours ii.B.D. : More poetry from S’Africa ! And,
unfortunately, again not good enough... .S.S.S. : No, no,
n 0... .Nip : Doesn’t move... .Bacchus : “ Lifeof V\ oman
quite commonplace... .W. M‘D :No thrill in your wreck.
....Y. : Why? C.C. IT. : Trite. ...F.T.D. : Your “ Sad-
ness” is so very tiredly sad.... Kerani: Just miss....
Rita: “Green Grass” simply paraphrases an American
cotton plantation sonax ...Roslj’n : Too inflated.. . . R.S. :
“ Capers ” frivols and gambols uncomfortably in a starched
dress and a stiff-necked collar... .W.M.M. : Suitable for
a music-hall song with a magic lantern accompaniment.
M.L.If. : Your wattle poem is that much realistic as
to iie wooden, hut has never a b100m... .Just : All just
fail Hamer: You’re always chasing a fine, poetic ex-
pression and never quite catching- it. Try and concen-
trate on a few efforts, and you may do better
Deodar: Too trifling H.S. : Don’t mix your Whitman
and your rum... .H.H. : “Jealousy” off the track.
What you diagnosed as infidelity was probably only head-
ache. .’. .Vici: Nothing fresh in it... .Cris. A. : Well, so
far, your verse shows no original thought. It is not suffi-
cient to he able to versify ; you must have also something
to sa y E.K. : “Jim and Elsie” an unrelieved!.'’ sordid
yarn C.A.C. : Don’t care for it Unsuitable: Teal,
C.A., P.J.D., Quillet, Quandongy Nulla, 5.G.8,, C. 5.8.,
Gilroden, O’H., Mars, Florence R., Lank; Alick D., M.J.,
A.L., G.L.S., A.G., W.J.R., J.P.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Tong Shoo: Only local interest....H.A.C. : Rather
steep. Unsuitable : Alf. K., V.R.W.
April Review of Reviews, splendid
number. Political notes, history of world.
“Doom of Russian Autocracy,” “Who is Father
Gapon?” Review of all leading magazines in
the world. All news agents. Ask for April
number and don’t accept anything else. Profusely
illustrated.*
Griffith and Allen, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne —(Broken Hill Chambers, Queeu-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
Natural history fact from Donald Mac-
donald’s “Gum Boughs and Wattle Bloom
(speaking of life on the Melbourne Botanic
Garden’s lake)
There are some curious hybrids between the Japanese
biack duck and the English mallard. . . . While the
English and Japanese ducks thus live in perfect sym-
pathy, neither will associate with the Australian duck.
The antipathy is mutual, too.


Kisses ■nn»i< r &y*.
s?^ n§ y s^ii^.
WKfrf^W'
"fowl it\f . ,
curves feJet'AW
J'm fljfcT in
l,obW he «s wording
! &wf frow> hiS ftWn '^ IAe _ c *•„
•nohr
v Ve°H c^
/Yr»<l embraces
> Drains
. n
ever
,o V\o^
A ** <
' wt
"tW
'/For
IpoßiTy
of \
The \
'Onv
If on
ifL-V** to <
t)«.
" a.'t-Me
f
I liKe ot»K<®l'/es.
k '-■'s »"
zr%z S**«Ss«r To fte
6 Ijors |»«« > 5S' on
ljis Wife (on tan
dfoyj Kowibw To
MEP OFF THE I
f apty 4r
sfd
ovcv
8c Ki«s
*>oi-r< j'o» life mvriwW 'fyaT, but,
jf • c?w '&*t I Kce}> 'em
Joins '%t S<W/
SSY<I f©
■ * Slls ok Qttu «>| I^c
j>Ur 'ew
■"IP .. _ 4- .
wceedwjSr *
bjf'l|»«foor»4 i^ftTKer^nT
THE REPENTANCE OF LABOR.


' ScHooLmissisES of
Void Sexes RecfNT L y ner
To Co-epfo-
<y\j l os/ .
11
¥-
(, i«is
Cos u Lp
* ANL y 4«. t
Tdey Onai^ou sLy
DEClDf]> TftAT it WouLfl-
NT 1)0
UaKn L?J
c s
HON I soTf QUE MALY?
£/j
°G,
Vo C,
SrJFF A N(> ,
In/ Ti Je A//tr| t* op
?/?oj>HET, MTS!
T (o-e}UG*TioN T by, /\nD
in [iff rr 'fifCjUN
Trfz)>tTi'£K / i
If-
L °°*S I BlfEve TclEy CouiPESeN'
Be taut Science Co-?p-
fuCATtopALLy i Do. (
st u PiD A s Ttify
<5 Cos CDJUCATioN IN Jew JiTs0 o.
Thlfy WoUIP sooN L e /*RN
TAjal Holts.
A
s .
‘IF l/l£j Of
11-° v
Dmw P
UmDfRSt-i
uvPy / AwL'KtT£-„
$
/If To Trie thqh-
ER ETI/cat/om, i _
S4W AT Ti7~Je'RRQLTf'S CiRCI/S A <*'R L
/3a/ another feller vo a trapeze
Aar ’Tc,c i ETt4eß . TAey Could n't a done
TrtAt nimour Co- e'potATioN , H£y ?
%
A Tf-T)
" wHo i /eyou Trf/tT
Black £y£ ? "
"Tim LoR! /.
OuCittrTEi? SEETny HlwW-
THOUGHTS ON CO-EDUCATION.


A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Fhcto. Pendants,
Set .’earls and Rubies
or Sapphires, 15s (id, 17s 6d.
Extra La rye, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
I") cl. Gold Two-Bar Opal and
Four Pure Diamonds, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Style Fancj Gold Chain Padlock Bracelet,
with Safety Chain, in Four Sizes, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4.
A SAUKFDERS.
Gold Buckle Bar Brcc’n,
Set Rubies or Sapphires, 15s.
9ct. Gold
phires,
A. SAUNDERS.
Bracelet, Set Diamonds and Rubies or Sap-
£2 15s. Fitted Extra Strong Safety Chain.
■
9
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Double Heart and Knot
Brooch, 12s Od. A Tasty Design.
d. SAUNDERS.
Gold Diamond Bracelet, Three Pure Double
monels, Extra Strong Safety Chain, £'>.
and Rubies, £4 10s. <
Cut Dia-
Dianionds
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Moulded N,Z. Greenstone
L’endant, 27s (id. Other Styles,
7s Od, 10s (jd, 12s (id, 15s, 17s (id,
20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SA-UNDEU3.
1 laml-Made liingg,
7s 6d, Ills, loot., Jus,
Extra Heavy, 255.
ISct., 20s.
Extra Heavy, 30s
40s, otls.
a. sum>i:ks.
Hand-Miule Keepers,
Oct., 7s G}], His, 12s Oil.
Isct., 17s (id, 20s, 255,
jSet.j 22s 6d, 30s,
40s, 60s.
m 4s.
£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half Hunting Keyless Watches,
Extra Heavy Cases, High Grade, 3 Plate Move-
ment, Fully Jewelled, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 Gs.
Guaranteed Three, Four, and Five Years.
A. SAUNDERS,
loot. Gold Diamond
and Two Rubios
or Sapphires,- 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct, Gold Set
4 Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2.
iHIBPH
A. SAUNDERS
18ct. Goid, Three Pure
Double Cut Diamonds,
£3, £4, £5, £G.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Half-Hoop Engagement
Rinir. set with Five Pure
Double Cut
±5
i•i rn <»n /11:
18ct. Gold 2 Heart
Opals, 4 Pure
Double Cut Diamonds,
£4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Buttercup
Set Pure Double Cut_
Diamond, £3, £4, £3.
ISct. Gold Give. Opal
Ring, £2 10s.
Extra Quality
Opals, £3 10s-
V,[
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Four Pure
Double Out Diamonds,
and Tvvo Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Ilalf-Hoop
Five Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £l5.
Smaller, £i2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band Rings,
12s Gd, los.
loct. Gold, 2Us, 255;
18ct. Gold, 255,, 30s, £
A. SAUNDERS.
1 Set. Gold Mali' Round
Single Diamord Ring,
£3, £3 10s, SA, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
f
s
M
£2 10s.
£3 10s
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ High Grade Solid Silver Keyless Levers.
Full Jewelled, f Plate, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4 10s. Solid Gold, £4, £5, £5 10s, £0 109
£7 10s, £S 10s, £lO 10s, to £2O. Guarantee<
Three, Four, Five, and Six Years
A. SAUNDERS.
Tsct. Gold Pure
Diamond and Pearls,
255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Bracelet Scroll, Set with Extra Quality
Pure White Pearls, £3 K)s. Extra Strong Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Match Box
Handsomely Chased, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
olid Gold Locket, 20s.
Silver, 4a 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Plain Sig'nel
Ring, Oct, Gold,
15s, 20s, 255;
15ct. Gold, SOs, 35s
18ct. Gold, £2,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Vomited N.Z. Greenstone
t-.'.sh Pendant, 17s 6d, 255.
SP“!AL REDUCTIONS
IN SOLID SILVER HUNTING KEY-WIND
USUAL PRICE, ENGLISH LEVERS. REDUCED PRICE,
£4 4/-
ass
m
f/sKSXSm
m
li
m
LJM
S 8 ; sth
fc^vgSSnfeS!
$$
«8E
iMK
§
F*"Xi.K t^-t- vvi«; : =w ? c
-
vYSR
mammmms
suss
>ae
s mb
ffl
"■y
■,:V
A. SAUNDERS.
In order to reduce our large stock we have decided
to sell these famous watches at £2 15s—usual price,
£i 4s. They are specially made, full covered cap, kev
movement, compensation balance, fully jewelled, dust-
proof cases, perfectly regulated and adjusted.
Kept in repair for three years free of charge.
£2 15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
df
9ct. Gold Diamond and Ruby or Sapphire Bracelet,
£2 10s. 15ct. Gold, £4 ss. Safety Chain Attached.
SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
Set Pure White
Pearls, 17s Gd,
22s Cd.
The Lord Watch
Between Me _ k
Thee
m
m
L«ej
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mi/pah Heart,
Charm, 8s 6tl.
Smaller, 5s 6a, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign Purses, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d,
Gold Filled, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d. Solid
Gold, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two Bar Pure Double
Cut Diamond in Centre,
£2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Amethyst Ring, 255;
15ct. Gold. £2, £2 103.
sdfghf
fgh
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Double
Thistle Heart,
Pendant, 12s 6d.
iir
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Shield and
Dumbbell Links,
12s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
G°kl rw° Bjar Spray, Amethyst and
Bell Chain Brooch, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Long Gold Muff Chains, ii
Style and Pattern made, £2, £2
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7,
i Every
10s, £3,
£B, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Enamel
Thistle Brooch, 3s.
Cheaper Line, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Go! (' Links, ‘2ss;
loot. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pearl ar.d Turquoise
Set Charm, 17s 6d.
\ * /
s
A.SAUNDERS
815 GecrgeStreeß
SYDNEY
A. SAUNDERS.
NICKEL,
20/-
SILVER,
35/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pin Chain
and Charm, 5s 6d.
Also Heart, Anchor,
Hell, Cross, or
Wishbone.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Design Double Heart and Drop Necklet, 15ct. Gold, set with Extra Quality Pure White Pearls
in Silk-Lined Leather Case, £l2 10s. Other Styles, £5 ss, £lO, £l5, £l7 10s, £2O, £25. ’
Send for Our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
We Send it POST FREE to any address
in Australia.
. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pin Nob
and Wishbone
Charm, 5s 6d.
Larger, Ts 6d.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2 10s
m
■■■■
GOLD
CASED,
£4 4s
Non-magnetic, Strong, Reliable, Knockabout Watches,
Our “Unrivalled” Dust and Water i’roof Case, 20s.
London Lever, 255; Extra Jewelled, 30s. Cheaper
Ernes, 10s, 6d, 12s tid, 15s. All Guaranteed. Will
be exchanged if not satisfactory.
I
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pendant
Set Peails
and Ruby
or Sapphire, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Chains, Single or Double, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5; 15ct. Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7, £B,
£lO. Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
Patent Gold Filled. Patterns 1 and 3,15 s, 17s Cd,
20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird
and Heart
Charm, 7s 6d.
Larger, Ss Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Waltham Watolies, Solid Silver Hunting Cases.
Extra Quality Movements, £2 10s, £3, £3
10s, £4, £5. Patent Gold Case, £1 4s, £5
ss, £6 10s. Solid Gold, £7 IQs,. £lO, £l2,
10s,- £l5, £2O, £25. Guaranteed Three,
Four, Five, and Six Years.
A. Saunders,
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith, and Optician,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George=st.,
Opposite Railway Station.


tgf.
. -'-.•w'lt
3m
• . 1 » •. *.
m
m f h *
smm . ;>
XiiSHv •
3®
ss
is
S£S
m
m
' . ■
flpr _
Si
&S
>v..
■ F XXX
r^W
*«
/./
X
H
Li
m
x-
/
."-..if
- Wf
■;
X '■!
s:
■;. ■■
MS
«
■
.
mm
:>Ty
; -.; m; £§3Bn ll# mi
■
n
'
m
■
I
tmn
t 3»
m
m
iiik
\
M
sai
i tCX
IB
■
s;i«S»§
.
m
mm.
.
-
SP&
SPIIS
x
V.-
SiSst
KB!
mrnmz
mm
-■-■
V
r- •-.
si
Specially Si
Sketched for “The Bulletin” from Costumes at Buckley <k Nunn's.
The above costumes can be supplied to any part of Australasia, and patterns and self-measurement forms: will be sent on application
In ordering, send illustration and quote number. The costumes must be read from lift to light.
-T , rri i v T 1 mAT and SKIRT SUIT In all colors of Cloth, Frieze Serge, Hopsac, &c„ Coat silk-lined, at 6 Guineas ; or with material
No. 1. Tailor-Made COAT and SKIRT SUII. in w e 10 - FELT HAT. French Sailor, in Felt or Straw, finished with quills and
i^BTO5 r COSTUMB Camel Hair Cloth, tan cloth facings, trimmed with navy, pale blue or gold fancy braid,
ribbon. 25/6. No. 2.-ETON WBim ;md inaterials , such 118 Cloth, Serge, Frieze, Hopsac, &c„ price 6 Guineas.
Lme m sleeves, and lace mve_ l ' _ ■ wit h 0 S Plumes, 63/-. Ho. 3.-BOLERO COSTUME. Blue Frieze Serge, with pale blue
lth, Sgcd with black and white fancy braid, guipure, a„d|ale
all colors and various fashionable materials. Ho. 3.—BEAVER HAT, Ostrich i fumes, bJ, .
BUCKLEY & NUNN, LIMITED., Bourke Street, Melbourne.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Tired in the morning ? There are times
when the night’s rest doesn’t fit you for the day’s
work. Those are the times for a stimulant that
will brace you up and stay by you. The best of all
tonics is Wolfe’s Schnapps."*
Mr. JONATHAN REEVES, Hutchins, Texas,
writes: —“I had an attack of PNEUMONlA—continued
to grow worse until the DOCTORS GAVE ME UP TO
DIE. Then JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT CURED ME.”*
A horror came to me one night,
A spectre blear and old—
“ Your name ! ” I cried, in wild affright,
It said, “ I am a cold.”
“ Begone ! ” I cried, “ your clammy touch
I will no more endure ! ”
And straight it vanished at the sight
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89 C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
gh
GrCJ< TO
IdOl.AM' for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOKKiuN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiszabeth-st., Sydney.
tustralian Stamps Bought Price-Lists
POLITICAL
POINTS
Mr. Reid couldn’t have better justified his
doubts as to the advantages of Federation than by
becoming Prime Minister of the Commonwealth.
In S. Australia only 52,000 people have a
vote for the petty State Legislative Council,
though 179,000 are on the rolls for the Common-
wealth Senate.
Premier Seddon now declares that the
M.L. Legislative Council is unnecessary and
should be abolished. It took him a long while to
make the discovery. He has just completed his
thirteenth consecutive year of office.
Despite the fact that they dearly love a
lord, the stinking-fish papers have never yet
quoted the Earl of Ranfurly’s recent article, in a
leading Yankee magazine, on the socialistic
legislation of Maoriland, passed, some of it, while
he was Governor. He concludes with admitting
that, so far, it seems destined to work out for the
prosperity, comfort and happiness of the people.
Reported from China that the export trade
in coolies to S’Africa is likely to soon stop. The
Randlords have not found Chinese labor par-
ticularly profitable, and it is hard to recruit fresh
workers, as some of the men who have gone track
give bad accounts of S’Africa.
The best bit of political news that has
dribbled across from Westralia since too far back
to remember, is that Daglish proposes to tiring in
a land-tax next session. If Daglish makes it high
enough and progressive, a lot of hard things said
about the mark-time Premier will be wiped off the
slate.
Some disinterested importer has written
to Melbourne Argus, proposing that a fund he
initiated to “recoup Mr. Max Hirsch for the per-
sonal expense that he has gone to” in order to
slander Australian industries. The suggestion
was received in dead—-or nearly dead—silence.
Even Flinders-lane had not cheek enough to pre-
tend that the Max had footed the analyst’s hill in
a purely'noble and unselfish way.
WOMAN IN POLITICS.
“Good gracious ! do you know her?"
“ Well, only politically, you know. She rounds
up the riff-raff for our drawing-room and
home purity meetings.”
“Pilliga ” on a land settlement matter
Pilliga is situated on the edge of the scrub, and we
agitated for about 10 years to get an exchange between
the Government and the owner of Kulindi station for
good land, known as Merriman, situated close to our main
street, across the lagoon. We succeeded in getting a bore
put down to keep the lagoon full, and we fondly imagined
the Government would cut up the land into blocks of 100
to 200 acres, to enable us (timber-g’etters, sawmill-hands,
carriers, Ac.) to make homes, where our children could
attend the public school, while our wives would be close
enough to the township to feel safe while we were at
work. But the land board is giving the whole 1800 acres
to one man ; so that, as far as we are concerned, it might
just as well have been left with the squatter.
Ploughs now pay a 12| per cent, duty as
against the old Victorian duty of 15 per cent.
An agricultural implement maker swore before
the Tariff Commission that imported ploug’hs
were sold now at exactly the same price as prior
to 1901. The reduced duty simply went to swell
the importers’ profits.
These politicians understand one another.
The North Canterbury (M.L.) Education Board
was having a wrangle as to whether Seddon had
really promised something or other. “I heard
him myself,” said a member; “it was after the
banquet, the other day.” “Oh,” said another, a
M. H.R., “after a banquet! We mustn’t look
upon it as a promise then.”
The International Harvester Co. of
America (the Combine) quotes £Bl as its price
for strippers in Australia (12| per cent. duty). £26
in America (45 per cent, duty), and £l4O in
Argentina (where there is no duty at all) !
Presumably £l4O would be the price the Aus-
tralian farmer would have to pay if the Australian
factories were shut up.
Half-Premier Reid told the women of
North Sydney (2/5/’O5) that he had the assurance
of a sound financial authority that one of the
earliest effects of the Socialistic propaganda was
the steady withdrawal of British investments
from Australia. But lie did not name his sound
authority, and his audience, those at least who.
thought aloud, cried “Rats!”
Mr. Watson, telling an Adelaide audience
what the Labor party really aims at :
They were striving to establish an educated democracy
for Australia. . . The Labor party did not wish to take
away property held under true equal conditions. . . It
affirmed as its ideal a nationalisation of monopolies and
a steady extension of the functions of the State and the
municipality. . . Their socialism developed the attributes
demanded by Jesus Ohrist. . . It aimed to give equal
opportunity to everybody.
The small fry coffee-growers of Queensland
will obtain just what they long needed under the
new Government regulation, whereby they can
send their product to a State mill. Buyers have
refused to touch small lots, because of unevenness
in curing and grading, and the Government has
now provided at Cairns machinery for hulling,
winnowing, grading and other preliminary pro-
cesses.
Its American correspondent gives S.M.
Herald the “only” remedy for a certain class of
pri vate enterprise abuses rampant in that country :
The only remedy for railroad abuses is to substitute for
stockholders, who usually elect directors who cheat them,
a Government commission armed with more plenary-
powers than the existing Interstate Commission, to rule
with a rod of iron.
In effect, State socialism —the Australian remedy
for robber-monopolies.
Looks as if the useful Queensland coali-
tion s life was threatened. Treasurer Kidston has
announced that early in the coining-
session a compulsory Conciliation and
Arbitration Bill will be introduced.
Mr. Denham, Minister for Agricul-
jiire, has stated in public (apparently
with reference to this) his intention
of resigning upon the first attempt
to introduce “ socialistic legislation.”
That brings the coalition within
measurable distance of the parting of
the ways. The Labor party feels
assured of a not less than four ma-
jority. Mr. Blair, Attorney-General,
is shortly to be appointed a Judge of
the Supreme Court, and it is not un-
likely that Mr. Bell, Minister for
Lands, will succeed Mr. Heeney on
the Land Court Bench. Both these
Parliamentary seats will be captured
by the Labor party when vacant.
On the whole, it would be
well for the Labor party and the
Labor papers if the “official organ ”
business .came to an end. If a
Labor paper is an “ official organ,”
it is expected by its friends to give
an unhesitating and undeviating
backing to the Labor party :
that interferes with its in-
dependence. And the enemy
seizes upon anything out
of the way in the
“ official organ ” about
religion, or morality,
or loyalty, to pro-
claim it as the
official opinion of
the Labor party.
It would be better
for all concerned
if the “Labor”
paper had no
official stam p and
were recognis-
able only by the
fact that it advo-
cated Labor views.
Mr. Hugh Nel-
son was a dissentient
to a secesh howl at
Brisbane Chamber of
Commerce dinner last
week. He opposed the Fe-
deral Bill, he said, but as the union
had been consummated, the people should make
the best of it. He ridiculed the secession move-
ment and showed the impossibility of success.
Russia seemingly is feeling the pressure of
war on its finances. Reported that it is prepared
to sell some of the State railways for £80,000,000.
Victorian Farmers’ Union has had the
saving grace to come out of the “ proputtv ” gang.
The Property Owners and Producers League tried
hard to rope them in. “But,” asked farmer Kirk-
patrick', “do you really think that the jeweller
in Collins-street is in sympathy with the farmer on
the Wimmera?” Then they all, with one accord,
began to think, and finally resolved that they
would not go up with Proputty against the people,
but run a political union of their own.
T’other day, the Clyde Engineering Co.,
which has beeu urging Carruthers to pass the
locomotive contract its way, applied to the Iron
Trades Council to agree to a reduction in wages.
The Council referred the matter to a vote of the
trade societies concerned; and the result is ex-
pected to be an answer that private enterprise
must fix its price compatible with decent wages.
Yet there isn’t any sense in throwing a wedge at
the co. over the matter. If it Had a proper
amount of Protection it wouldn’t have to ask for
concessions. With a low tariff it is either low
wages or no work.
A REQUEST.
A naval volunteer corps is to be started in Cape Colony,
and the Admiralty has been asked for the use of an
obsolete warship. —News Item.
ALGERNON FITZSMITR (of the London Red-Tape
office): “Say, old chap , some South African
johnnies want an obsolete boat to practise on,
don’t y’ know. Could you—haw—arrange to
lend them — haw —one of the Australian
squadron? ”
A State general election in S. Australia
isn’t like a general election in any other State.
It is always on a Saturday ; and, so that the voters
may have time to calmly consider the sins of
Darling and the imperfections of Butler, all can-
didates must be silent for several days previously.
Every election advt. must be publicly “autho-
rised ” by somebody ; so Brown can’t secretly call
upon all thieves to vote for their brother-scoundrel
Smith. Half the Council and all the Assembly
are elected the same day ; and, helped by the
strict limitation of expenses, candidates for both
Houses go prowling in battalions : all the candi-
dates speak at the same meeting, and, as there
may b'e 10 candidates, the meetings in the country
generally start at 3. And after the elections, the
candidates have to swear to a return showing how
much the whole business cost them. Pretty often
it’s less than a “ tenner.”
When George Reid was Premier of N.S.W.
he bumped against one fine sample of Freetrade
and anti-Socialism. Police-inspector
Tindall reported that a contractor
for making rail way-porters’ trousers
gave work out to a sub-contractor,
who paid girls and women sd. a pair !
Another sweater was paying a price
at which a first-class hand, working
from 8 a. in. to 12 p.m.—l6 hours a
day—could not make 15s. a week.
The horrified Reid (he used to play
dominoes with M‘Gowen at that time)
ordered that these sweaters should
be struck off the list of eligible con-
tractors. But when it was reported
that a little thing like that made no
difference, and that these two weren’t
any worse than the rest, and that the
system was at fault more than the
men, the names were restored. Now
the same George Reid is going to
fight a campaign in the interests of
the system under which his porters’
pants were made for sd.
In the daily papers it is always
the shocking employee who dodges
the Arbitration award—the employer
couldn’t do it. Yet when the N.S. W’.
Public Service Board went into the
matter of wages in the tailoring
business, it reported, “from the ex-
amination of the wages paid in dif-
ferent private establishments, it is
clear in several cases that the award
of the Arbitration Court is not acted
up to.” Which is the Maor.iland
experience over again. There, for
every employee found guilty of break-
ing an award, five employers were
convicted—in most cases of petty little
dodgery, with a view generally of
getting an underhand advantage over
their fairer rivals in the same business.
A recent report by the Brisbane Collector
of Customs shows that the number of Queensland
planters registered for the “white-grown” sugar
bonus increased from 2048 in 1903 to 2429 in 1904
—which disposes of the Tory contention that the
white man can’t work the industry. It is esti-
mated that the 1905 yield will be a record—
-100,000 tons.
The Queensland Labor Conference decided,
by 16 to 13, against a Federal referendum on the
fiscal question. The old superstition dies hard.
At first the party didn’t aim to be a rider —it
only aimed at being a makeweight. But now the
party aims to be a rider itself, and not merely a
lump of lead in somebody else s saddle. And
what chance has a rider got of getting a mount if
he won’t make up his mind whether he will turn
his horse head first or tail first towards the judge’s
box ?
Lawyer G. H. Reid, in his squabble with
lawyer Bruce Smith over the rarity of their
respective attendances in Parliament during a
certain period, put the case thus :
Fortunately for me, and perhaps unfortunately for my
duties as leader of the Opposition, I was very frequently
engaged in court, and therefore very frequently absent.
I can only hope that Mr. Bruce Smith will be the subject
of the same misfortune.
It is time the public began to take notice of the
complacent lawyer-politician’s habit of attending
to his duties in Parliament only when no business
awaits him in the courts. If carpenter Dobbs, a
Labor member, thus confessed that he only
worked in Parliament when he couldn’t get a
paying job at his trade, lawyers like Reid and
Smith would be the first to denounce his insolence
and greed, and would point a scornful digit to the
fact that the country paid him for attending
Parliament.
Freetrader Fowler, on the Tariff Commis-
sion, airing another exploded fad: “If we had
high protection here might we not have trusts?”
W r e might; just as a hungry man who gets a basin
of chicken-broth might chance to get a fly in it,
but he doesn’t therefore reject the broth; he
simply removes the fly. Anyway, the four largest
trusts in America are not helped in any way by
the tariff, viz., the Standard Oil trust, the wheat
trust, the anthracite coal trust and the railroad
combine.
Sydney City Council has approved of pro-
posals for running motor omnibuses in the city.
But the Council or the Railway Commissioners
should make it plain now, at the start, that the
carriage of the public will not be allowed to drift
again into private hands. The Private Enterprise
’bus, the Private Enterprise tram, and the Private
Enterprise train we have known, and have dis-
carded. If the motor ’bus is to supplant the tram,
the motor bus must be run by the people.
S.A. Chamber of Manufactures gave an
excellent object-lesson in the fine show that has
kept the Exhibition building occupied for six
weeks, and has now closed with a small profit to
the promoters. The Wheat State has not much
repute as a manufacturing centre, and many
Adelaide residents were genuinely surprised to
find that —besides safes and locomotives, salt,
rope, and cement, candles and starch—they can
make their own ink and many of the common
drugs, also such extras as cricket-bats and fiddles.
Australian-made (Beale) pianos sold at the
rate of 8 or 10 a week. A local industry in
artificial flowers claims to be the only one of the
kind in the Commonwealth.
There is much righteous wrath amongst
some Australian bishops and other middle-aged
ladies because the platform of the Labor party
does not “ officially recognise the Almighty.” All
sorts and conditions of people are warned against
the Socialistic movement because it does not go
out of its way to say a good word for the
Athanasian creed, and the most marvellous and
moving narrative of Jonah and the whale. This
is said to imply that it is ungodly, atheistical and
prone to'evil, and will undermine all morality and
bust up the family. But Mr. George Reid’s plat-
form makes no special concessions to fashionable
religion, and goes not out of its way to admit the
existence of a Supreme Being. Mr. Deakin’s con-
fessions of political faith contain no references to
the Virgin Birth, nor does Mr. Spruce Myth
promise to uphold Freetrade principles and bap-
tism by sprinkling. Why, then, this frenzied out-
cry about the shocking irreligion of the Labor
party ?. We’re reluctant to believe that these
stout bishops, gaitered at one end and haloed at
the other, would lend themselves to a deliberate
movement to prejudice Mr. Watson’s cause
amongst ignorant, unthinking and bigoted electors
by false representations.
A LUCKY ESCAPE.
“ Ach! you little stupid, vy did you jump off
ven it vas moving? Mine gracious me, my
boy, you might haf been fined.”
According to the cables, London Times has
heaved a brick at Carruthers’ proposal to establish
ironworks in N.S.W. by taking all the iron re-
quired by the Government for seven years at the
past seven years’ average prices. The Times says
“ the consideration offered for an enormous outlay
and an equally enormous risk is grotesquely in-
adequate.” And the Times is partly right. At
most the N.S.W. Government only guarantees to
supply one customer for seven years, whereas the
Commonwealth Parliament could, through the
Customs, guarantee the whole custom of every
State in Australia for local enterprise.
♦
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
onlv Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of'all chemists. PARIS MEDICINE CO., Temple
Chambers, London, E.C. England.*


Have You Seen the
CALLAGHAN SPECIAL
BOOT FOR MEN?
If not, you can form a fairly correct notion of its intrinsic
value by reading the following description of it
SOLES—SoIid oak-tanned stout walking
soles, stitched on a Goodyear machine,
with best Irish Flax Thread, warranted
not to rip open,
UPPERS—Uppers and vamp are cut from
plump skins, and are not skimped in
any way.
LINING—A good grade of Leather. The
inner sole is milled perfectly smooth on
the surface, and free from nails, creases
or thread.
HEELS—Square trimmed. Size 1 inch,
properly nailed.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Boots Exchanged.
Money Refunded.
This Special Boot
is giving complete
satisfaction, being
thoroughly reliable
in every respect.
Send for our
New Style
Catalogue ,
.
'V
mm •
' * • , . „
.t'
■
sbswss
FRENCH CALF ... 16/6
POST PAID ... 17/6
TAN LEATHER ... 17/6
POST PAID ... 18/6
Free Postage now includes West Australia.
JUST WHAT HAS BEEN WANTED,
A Good Practical TYPEWRITER
at a
Low Cost.
We have it!!
fd
The "Postal
Price £6 15s. ; with Oak Case, £7 10s.
No business man, no matter in how small a way, should be without a Typewriter. Type-
written letters look well, are more impressive, and lead to business. Send for full particulars—
OSBORN & JERDAN,
“MY OPTICIANS,”
393 George St., Sydney.
VITADATIO
The Great Herbal Remedy,
Cures
Kidney Disease,
Blood Poisoning, and
General Debility.
Maylands, W.A.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in testifying to the
great amount of good received by my mother in taking
VITADATIO. She suffered from kidney troubles, which, I
understand, brought on blood poisoning, resulting in a
large and painful sore on one leg, besides general debility.
In all, my mother took fifteen bottles of VITADATIO.
The sore is completely healed, and her general health is
very much improved. You have liberty to quote my
mother’s case as being genuine.
Yours gratefully,
S. KENT.
P.S. —Mrs. Kent is an aged lady. The sore was about
twice the size of one’s hand.
For further particulars ,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: 43!) Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Oonnell.street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
CONGREVES
BALSAMIC
LIXIR
FOR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
COUCHS, COLDS,
CONSUMPTION.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERS.
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price Gel., Poet Free.
From Coombe Lodge, Peckham, London, S.E., England
ARTIFICIAL
LIIBS,^
h
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason*
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS t Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
gh
BUILDING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER PAPERS.
NOW IS THE TIME
with winter close at hand, when those
who have Cool Stores or Refrigerating
Rooms take the opportunity of cold
weather to make alterations or im-
provements. If you are going
TO INSULATE
you cannot do better than pay us a
visit. AVe have a fund of useful infor-
mation on the subject, which we will
be glad to place at your disposal. Call
or write us—it will be worth while.
“If it is not seemly, do it not ; if it is not true, speak it not," — Marcos Aureliusi
Agents: W. S. FRIEND & CO., Sydney.
JAMES MoEWAN & CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Vic.
E. T. HARRIS, Townsville, Q.
NORMAN & CO., Adelaide, S.A.
JAMES W. JACK, Wellington, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A
HEDLEY BUTTON, Launceston, Tas.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Christchurch, N.Z. Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. DOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Australasian Representative,
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
IMPORPIBBTr-n WY ROYftt- CHARTEP, 183 S.
THE . . .
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Paid Up Capital ••
Reserve Fund •• •• • * • * * * * *
(Of which £500,000 is invested in 2J per cent. Consols at 85,
the remainder being used in the business of the Bank.)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors Under the Charter
£1,600,000
1,190,000
1,600,000
£4,390,000
s
EVENTY-FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK 01
AUSTRALASIA, with the Accounts for the Half-year to 10th October, 1904. Presented to the
Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting, held on Thursday, 30th March, 1905, at one o’clock.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance Sheet as at 10th October last, with
the Profit Account for the half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills
current, for British and Colonial rates and taxes, and for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit
for the half-year amounted to £140,065 Bs. lOd. . , •
To this sum must be added £16,885 16s. 2d. brought forward from the previous half-yeai, making
a total of £156,951 55., out of which the Directors have declared a dividend for the half-year at the
rate of 12 per cent, per annum, or £2 Bs. per share, free of income tax.
The dividend will absorb £96,000, and the Directors have further appropriated £30,000 to the
reserve fund, and £14,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises. There will then remain
£16,951 ss. to be carried forward to the next account. . .
The dividend will be payable in London and in the Colonies on the 31st inst.
LICHFIELD, Chaibman.
4 Threadneedle-street, London, 20th March, 1905.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from 11th April, 1904, to 10th October, 1904.
Undivided profit, llth April, 1904.. .. ~ 1
Less : Dividend, October, 1904 ab ’ uuu 0 u
Profit for the half-year to 10th October, 1904, after deducting rebate on bills current at
balance date (£5629 12s. 10d.), and making provision for all bad and doubtful debts. .£291,458 0 8
Less :
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial— . , ~ _
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, including the Super-
intendent’s department, and 168 branches and agencies £96,475 12 7
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery, travelling, &c. 26,595 O 3
London— Qm ,.„ „
Salaries 9,035 16
£16,885 16 2
General expenses..
2,896 5
£129,002 14 8
11. Rates and Taxes—
Colonial ..
London
£12,377 11 6
10,012 5 4
£22,389 16 9
-£151,392 11 5
£140,065 8 10
Total amount of unappropriated profit
Prom which deduct—
-156,951 5 0
For transfer to reserve fund
.. 30,000 0 0
esGrve lund. •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •* ** j
For reduction in cost of bank premises.. .. 14,000 0 0 q
Leaving available for dividend
£112,951 5 0
Dr.
BALANCE SHEET, 10th October, 1904.
Or.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation
Deposits .. ..
Bills payable, and other liabilities
Capital .. .. .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. .. 1,190,000 0 0
fOf which £500,000 is
invested in 2£ per
cent. Consols at 85,
the remainder being
used in the business
of the bank.)
Profit account ; undi-
vided balance .. 112,951 6 0
£471,783 0 0
15,180,394 10 2
2,011,391 7 10
£17,669,568 18 0
2,902,961 6 0
£20,572,520 3 0
F. H. BLOGGr, Accountant.
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion, and cash balances .. £3,315,103 8 7
Loans at call and at short notice .. 1,470,039 0 0
British Government Securities .. .. 967,140 12 2
India and Colonial Government Se-
curities .. .. .. .. .. 145,648 10 2
£5,897,931 10 11
Bills receivable, advances on securities,
and other, assets 14,368,061 4 1
Bank premises in Australia, New Zealand
and London .. .. .. .. 306,527 8 0
£20,572,520 3 0
R. W. JEANS, Manager. .
We have examined the Cash and Securities in London, and the London Books, and have verified
the transfers from the several Branches in the Colonies, and we beg to report that, in our opinion, the
foregoing is a full and fair Balance Sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of
the state of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the books.
London, loth March, 1905. WELTON, JONES and CO., Auditors.
CONSULT
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
SPECIALIST
IN PRIVATE, NERVOUS, SKIN AND BLOOD Dl SEASES, &.C., AC..
Treatment toy Post a Speciality. Advice Free '
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Celebrated Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a guaranteed cure for Nervous Weakness, Varicocele, Loss of Vigor, Melancholia,
Despondency, Spots Before the Eyes, Loss of Memory, Spinal Weakness, Confused Brain,
Bashfulness and Lost Vitality. Makes Premature Weak Men Strong and Healthy
Baxes, 6/- and 12/-. Ordinary Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6. Write for Circulars.
ALFALINE BLOOD PfLLS
Cure all Contagious Blood Diseases, Skin Complaints, Gravel, Strictuie, Affections of the
Bladder, Urinary Passage, and all Chronic Constitutional Blood and Skin Diseases, no mat-
ter how caused or of how long standing. They are Purely Vegetable, and contain no Mercury.
Boxes 61, Course 23/6. Write for circulars.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS cure Anaemia and Internal Female Complaints, Boxes 6/-
Course 23/6; Rheumatic Pills, 6/; Pile Powders, 6/; Fat-Reducing Powders, 6/; Liver Puls, 1/.
HEAD OFFIGE: 547 GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY
Also at his BRANCHES : 309 Queen St., Brisbane; IS Pulteney St., Adelaide; 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington. N.Z.;
Perth, W.A.. 481 Hay St. and 111 Hannan St.. Kalgoorlie. haws peter rasmusseh.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin-Screw Steamer.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
til William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
•—TJIIS—>
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • • 105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.,
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Brijce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,814,795.
Policies issued 94,657 - assuring £28,394,068,
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,267,019.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 St 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Rational Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1868,
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,213 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 42,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS. 12
Months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum. 2 Years
and over, at the rate of 4J per cent, per annum.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. Y. RALSTON.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J JAMITKD. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,539
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175.812
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 64.00 C
£697,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. I). Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street,
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government) .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital « ... £2,000,000
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Georgs & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250.900 ... £350.000
OCEAN
Accident and Giiarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M. L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John She, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jkssoi’, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Ci.ynk ; Adelaide. \V. N.
M‘Parlane ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. \V.
Fa rquhar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
and
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne,
CAPITAL PAID-UP X 90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND and UNDIVIDED
PROFITS (used in Company’s business) £15,122 8 1
Directors': F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDIv. A. LANG Assistant Managei
' EDISON
0010 MOWOfO
RECORDS
a
[EDISON
mo nouioco
RECORDS
For EDISON
PHONOGRAPHS
and RECORDS
WRITE TO . . .
Edison Phonograph Supply,
T & G. BUILDINGS,
Swanston Street, Melbourne,
Next Town Hall.
Catalogues and Price Lists Post Free.
NERVOUSNESS.
j,OSS of ENERGY and BTRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS oi SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINES, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Shipping.
KT. 13. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHF.R LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
•WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 13th MAY.
♦PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 10th JUNE.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. Bth JULY.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
fg
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe ~ delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Ulmlcls &2.f0tt>&5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres.Westwood Steel Rims.
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
pcFt in Australasia*
Motor Cars and Motocycles
'Tyres, Accessories , Sporting Goods &
•Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
'Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 339 B
CHICAUO, L'.S.A. and LIVEItPOOt, EMI LAM). .
WHITE STAR LINE.
gdg
PLYMOUTH and LOH DON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
19th MAY,
AERIC, SUE VIC, PERSIC,
and RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N L!N€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
O E A. KTXC
S.s. Co.
-A.. and
A..
LINE.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. VENTURA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, MAY 29.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
fgh
WINTER CRUISING
HE “Moresby ” left Sydney on Monday last on her
first cruise—all berths occupied. She will leave
again on 7th July and 7th Sept. next. On each
trip she will be away 53 days, and will visit the Solomon
Islands, Eastern New Guinea, and the Bismarck Archi-
pel. This cruise will cost you £2s—there are no extras ;
your home on the ship the whole time. Will you send
your address so that we can post “ HOLIDAY HINTS ? ”
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
fg
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress U ury.
axr.s.'w.
H)ont de pete D.*!l.C°->Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREACrH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Reynolds’s
Newspaper
Keeps the Democratic Flag
flying all over the World.
READ IT.
JOHN DICKS - - - Strand, London, W.C.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED*
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Agents Wanted.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL-
MAY 15, JUNE 12, JULY 10, AUG. 7.
THE BEST ROUTE TO EUROPE.
Affords an Opportunity of
Visiting the Attractive
Spots of the New World
Without Additional Cost.
GRAND EXCURSION TO CANADA,
The Finest Sea-Trip in the World.
The Grandest Scenery in America.
The Finest and Cheapest Excursion
from Australia.
WT WRITE FOR PARTICULARS. -«a
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE. *
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), The Three Donkies (a good joke), the Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character —
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond, (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3. P. 0.. Havmarket.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
SOUTH BRITISH
OFFICES:
SOUTH BRITISH CHAMBERS, 12 Bridge St., Sydney.
GEO. H. MOORE, Manager. CHAS. X. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
One of the
Wealthiest Fire
and Marine Insur-
ance Companies
doing business in
Australia, and
noted for its
Promptness and
Liberality in
Settlements.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Yiotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE, !
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY, f l
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Innamincka, Saturday,
May. 13 (Without Tran-
shipment).
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
May 13 (Transhipping at
Melbourne).
BRISBANE, 1
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, >
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Gabo (Howard Smith’s
Wharf), Saturday, May 13.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
May 20.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
<^Mniß^^Agents 2 6BßmGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
POUT SAID, will be disnatched MONTHLY as follows: -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, Inaio, Cnina
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIEIt DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managi ng'Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will he
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels’ in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding: Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPIT, Manager.
* T SAY, Jim ! Where did you stay when you went over
to Melbourne last ? ”
“ Oh ! at the
"FALSTAFF” Restaurant
SPENCER STREET,
Opposite Railway Offices.
I found it all right, clean and comfortable, handy to
railways and boats. Could get a hot bath when I wanted
it, and could be called any time by Night Porter.
Smoking Room ; 6 a.m. Breakfast. Board and Resi-
dence, 16s. and £l. Single Bedrooms, Is. 6d. Double
Bedrooms, 3s. Meals, 6d. and 9d. Try it.”
A Limited Number of Single Bedrooms are available
at Is. per night, or ss. weekly, with every
convenience. Tel. 1281.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comtoru and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade.
Sl\ KILDA.
rpHE Largest and laesc-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
Creswick Hotel
Bligh & Bent
Sts., Sydney.
Excellent Bachelors' Quarters. A Real English
Home. TERMS MODERATE.
PROPRIETRESS^-**
MRS. M. J. CHANCELLOR


It is a sort of double-banked misfortune that-a
prejudice exists in Australia against productions unless
they are English, and in England against productions if
they are Australian
HAVE YOU
BAD LEG
with Wouml* that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that >yheii you
pre«« vntir finger on the inflamed part it leave* the impres-
•ion? If 80, under the skin you have poison al»
the remedies you have tried, which, if not fexttafitpd, you
uever can recover, hut go oh suffering till death releases
you Perhaps your knee* are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankle*, round which the skin
may lie discoloured, or there may be wound* ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case i« hopeless-,■ or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, far, I CAN
CtJIU: YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL., tfecauss
others have failed i* no reason for not &ow being cured
Bend at once for
ALBERT'S UKASSHOI’PKR OINTMENT and ViLLS,
which Hfe » certain remedy for the curs of Bad I.cge,
lluiiieinaid'i Knee, Ulcerated Joint,, Carbuncle,, Po’HQUcd
(land,. Tumour,. Ab»ce»«e«, Sore Throat, Hropchiti,,
Bunion,, and Ringworm. Of all Clienirsts. Stores,
kc. Price, In Great Britain, 1/lid. per b ix. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Karrlugilun-atreet, Loudon, England.
Agent, :„i\LI.IOTT 8R05.,. Sydney. Pnrchaaera should
look (or th * registered trade mark of the Oral,hopper on a
yreen label on eacli bo*. (Reed copvrieh*>
Regular Habits......
Are the safeguard of health. Rid
the system of Nature’s wastes re-
gularly and thoroughly. Food
wastes 'nipt eliminated, froth the
system enter the blood as virulent
poisons, and HEALTH ahd BEAU-
TY FADE. If you require, as
everyone does from time to*time, a
simple, innocuous, palatable and
itiexpepsive aperient, try the new-
ly introduced Hungarian, pepper-
mint flavored, laxative,
LAXATINE
ONE SHILLING PER BOX, All Chemist
The Finest Preparation ever Introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 2/6j Posted 2/9g Give it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AIT KEN,
Ladies’ and Gentlemsn’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
fsd
MOST of us
have noticed
that our child-
ish impres--
sions, even of
quite trivial
things—a pic-
ture, a scene,
a word re-
main with us
through life.
As with the
mind, so with
body. The
childish body
is extraordin-
arily suscep-
tible to a hun-
dred ailments
which, if not
cured at the
time, often leave
permanently in-
jurious results.
All childish ail-
ments — rickets,
measles, bron-
chitis, whooping
cough, teething
troubles, eczema
diarrhoea, wast-
ing are best
cured by Scott’s
Emulsion of cod
liver oil with
glycerine and
the hypophosphites of lime
and soda.
Read this letter from Mr. W.
Foster, of Carrington Street, West
Wallsend, N. S. W., dated July
26th, t 904 :
“My little boy, James, aged four
years, was a great sufferer from
bronchitis and croup. I obtained
preparations of various kinds, but
he did not receive any lasting bene-
fit. Scott’s Emulsion agreed with
him perfectly, and from the first
dose he obtained relief. In a little
while he was completely cured and
is now a fine healthy bov.”
This power of curing rapidly
and permanently is character-
istic of
Scott's Emulsion
The explanation is that Scott’s
Emulsion is the only form of
cod liver oil which is perfectly
digestible, thus enabling the
system to absorb the full value
of the oil, instead of allowing
a large proportion, to pass
through and go to waste, as
happens with inferior prepara-
tions. Scott’s Emulsion is
therefore truly economical.
- Writeto-day fora free sample bottle
(enclosing 4d. for postage and men-
tioning this paper) to Scott & Bowpe
Ptd.,4B3,Kent Street, Sydney,N.S.W.
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines & Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c., &c.
Sole Agent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
A. ®> F.
9
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SO APMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke. Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Annual & Quinquennial Reports
New Premiums, 1904 ... £24,636
Renewal Premiums ... £195,267
Total Revenue ... £308,581
invested Funds ... £1,868,774
Cash Bonus now distributed £124,553
Issued Ist May by the M.L.A.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagb Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS ... ... £1,150,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
Food Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold orC. P. and C.L.)or Government Stock of
any of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current llates of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any finer
sfd
ARE YOU BALD?
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, I will guarantee that
CAFII>IiA HAIR TONIC will make that “down” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capilla. 2/6 a bottle;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. O.
Richakds, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Brumby”: Was recently accosted by two
youthful “bottle-ohs” “travelling” for a much-adyer-
tiSe'd patent'-niedicjne. Their business was to secure tes-
timonials in return for the gift of a large bottle of the
medicine and a box of pills. They wore doing fairly well
. too, a lSUqf people being willing to certify that they had
"been cured bySquiggs Squeaky Salve in return for a little
ot it on the nod. . : ,
A Fitzroy (Vic.) burglar hit on a neat trick the
Other day* and it was merely the cussedness of thims
that prevented, jt working out, alj right. Re sent the
residents in a certain house, tree tickets for a show, and
on the night of the entertainment went along and started
to burgle the premises, hut the .housewife had fallen ill,
and the housefather had remained at ho, nip to nurse her,
and, discovering the burglar; at the window, lie threw heavy
articles at him, arid chaspd him out pf the suburb
Possibly that housebreaker was ah ex-actor managey
Nobody else quite, realises the. terrible fascination a
“ stiff ” has for the average citizen. t
• * * *
Stated that chemist F. S. Howe and engineer
E. Thomas, of-the Mossinan (Q.) CentralAugar Mill, have
discovered a nompoisonous agent thats jviH .precipitate
every discoloring element in cane-juice and leave it iclear
as distilled .water, thereby ohyiating the need of refineries
and. enabling a turn-out of A 1 white sugar to be made
instead of yellows, the extra sugar gained by the process
being about 3 per cent. If .this be true, there’s a big
sugar' development ahead, and the discovery will appro-
priately coincide, with the Federa) process.for clearing the
colored labor element out of the. industry. . ....
* * * *
“J.F.D.”:‘ I have been in the provision line
recently, and purchased a little experience:—
(1) Bold roast sucking pig at a shilling a pound and lost;
opposition shop sold at sauie priceand profited- Pound that
pig had to be stuffed with mixed with bread
crumbs and seasoning ; so when you sell a pound of pig,
a big part of it.is sausage-meat bought at threepence or
less. Your profit comes from the sausage-meat. ,
(2) Don’t keep cheap pickles too long in the shop.
Take them outside. The corks fly out, and are likely to
hurt your customers.
(3) The horse often comes between the pig and his
corn. The pig is “ corn fed ” all right. The horse ate
the corn. Dead horses go to Botany. Live pigs come
from there.
(1) Label one cooked ham English and the other
colonial it doesp’t matter which.
Further points on application.
* * * *
Maoriland railway authorities intend adopting
the numbering of seats on the railways, and travellers
may purchase, two or three days ahead, tickets bearing
the number of the car and the seat they will occupy
during their journey—a civilised system of travelling
which should be initiated in Australia.
*** ' • *
“Australis” : Rc cotton-growing in Australia.
At Dargalong, on the Goulburn (.Vic.), in ’65, an American
named Cooper with a partner rented about 40 acres from
squatter Taylor and planted cotton. The crop was
abundant and was duly haled and shipped to U.S., whence
it was sent to England and sold as best American. This
continued for upwards of six years, when the partnership
was dissolved. I believe this was the first time Australian
cotton entered the English market. It was grown in
about lat. SS". Another Yank named Meredith, about
five years earlier, grew tobacco on the estate of late
N It. D. Bond (afterwards liandicapper to V.K.C.), A
great-uncle of mine succeeded to his place (the Murchison
pound) and found about scwt. of leaf packed in a hay-loft.
This our harvest hands said they preferred to the shop
article. Mixed with molasses and dried and pressed it
was in general use in the district, and after some years a
market was found in Melbourne for the residue, at what
figure I don’t know.
* * * *
“J.F.D.”: What price the Railway Commis-
sioners at the lottery game ? I attended the sale of “ lost
and unclaimed goods ” at Darling Harbor the other day,
and came home thinking hard. Buyers are not allowed
to examine the lots offered, and when a portmanteau or
trunk is put up, they are supposed to be in utter ignor-
ance of the contents. Battered trunks, worth about
25., brought 10s., 125., and 135., and when the purchasers
found they contained only rotten, moth-eaten articles the
illuminated language that flew round that yard was weird
and wonderful. I entered into the gamble, and bought a
canvas bag for 7s. 6d., toflnd it contained 1000 advertising
pamphlets. Emptied them out on the ground, and sold
the bag for 3d. ; then entered into the cursing business
with much vigor.
# * * *
“Sucker”: Re par “One Way” (B. 20/4/’O5).
One syndicate of take-downs advertises largely—“ Wanted
to buy, at once, sound, paying business.” . Hotels or
general stores mostly. Many men with good businesses
will sell out if they can get a profitable figure, but would
never otherwise dream of putting their business into an
agent’s hands. They provide the Shark with a good
crop of “ suckers.” Shark rarely troubles to buy or sell
a business; he is simply after signatures. Uses
stationery of the confidence-inspiring, established 1841
kind. Employs a solicitor all to his own cheek. Sucker,
replying to ad., receives a typed request to “ call at our
office and interview buyer.” Upon calling, prospective
purchaser is unavoidably' absent. Sucker is assured
his business is “ just the thing;” a good price can be
obtained, a sale will certainly eventuate. Particulars
taken down to be submitted to client, and, of course,
Sucker signs. If signature is not secured at this inter-
view, a bogus buyer is taken round to see Sucker’s busi-
ness; expresses himself delighted. Clerk calls later for a
few more trifling particulars—signed by Sucker. In a
few days a plausible excuse for “no sale ” reaches Sucker.
Week later a polite requestfor £25 or £5O, as per contract
signed ; later a lawyer's, letter, and, threat of proceedings.
Sucker desires to see contract-: referred to solicitors;
finds a type-written clause above hjs signature agreeing
to pay £25 or £5O whether the business is sold or not.
Sucker does not like to be considered a “mug”; dreads
law courts, exposure, ridicule ; and generally pays or
compounds. But he swears all the time that the clause
wasn’t there when he signed.
* * * •
In the wrangle among coffee merchants in Mel-
bourne and Sydney before the Tariff Commission no men-
tion was made of Australian-grown coliee. The assump-
tion was that Australians import all they consume. Yet
coffee cultivation is steadily followed, in Northern (Queens-
land especially, and could he made a splendid national
industry. In 1903 there were 394 acres under cultivation,
returning 83,6321 b. The whole of the. Queensland coastal
districts have been officially declared suitable for coffee-
growing of the best class. The Australian consumption
comes to over 2,000,0001b5., so that there is plenty of in-
ducement in the home market. Several about Herberton
and Cairns have lately given up sugar-planting for coffee.
Not much capital is required for a start, the plantations
running from an acre or two up. The gross average
return is £BO an acre with slight variations. The retail
price of coffee has maintained a singular sameness in Aus-
tralia for more than half-a-century. In 1837 it was Is. 6d.
per lb., and in 1904 it was the same.
* * * *
“ Petramos : No wonder Australian importers
grow corpulent. Am personally acquainted with several
youths of about 19 who work in an Adelaide warehouse
from 8 a. m. till 5 p.m. at os. per week. Some of them
are practically kept by their fathers when they should be'
keeping themselves, just because it is reckoned that “it
is a nice firm to-be connected with.”
* * * *
Milk people Henri Nestle of Yevey and Anglo-
Swiss Condensed Milk Co. have ooalesced, and basis, of
agreement show that for several years immediately prior
to coalition Nestle paid 100 per cent, to shareholders on
paid-up capital; and Anglo-Swiss, in addition to big
dividends, £2 per year bonus on £l6 paid-up shares.
* * * *
A recent little trouble in the Vic. Railway De-
partment throws an interesting light, on the resourceful-
ness of the poor porter. A poultry-farmer at Ballarat
wrote furious letters complaining that a magnificent white
Wyandotte cock, a prize bird, that he had ordered from a
fancier on the other side of the'metropolis, had been con-
verted en route to a common or garden barh-door fowl,
worth Is. 9d. The department investigated the mystery,
and after the detective had displayed much ingenuity, a
melancholy porter confessed that the prize Y-and-.
had escaped-out of its cage-while he was transfwring'it
from one train to another ; and after he had chased it for
miles all over the Victorian metropolitan system, it got
clear away. It was here that the resourcefulness of the
porter came in. He hastened to the nearest poulterer’s,
bought a two-shilling black hen, put her into the cage,
and sent hey along to the expectant farmer at Ballarat.


RESCH’S SELECT
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellent* the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., KEDFEKN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS-
The cricket-campaign has begun in England,
and the first match at the Crystal JPalace against the
Gentlemen of England resulted thusly :—First innings :
Australia, 270 ; Gentlemen, 156. Second innings : Aus-
tralia, 526 ; Gentleman, 129 for three wickets. Result a
draw.
• * * *
In the first match of the Australians’ tour of
England, (he “ Gentlemen of England ” played very much
below their average, and Noble and Hill played very far
above theirs. The only shocking departure from his last
year’s average was Warner. Beldam, Odell and Robson
also fell away some, but Fry, Maclaren, Jessop and
Poidevin were close up, while Lawton and Brearley beat
their averages by nearly 100 per cent. As bowlers,
Brearley and Jessop were not in it with Cotter and
Armstrong.
* * * *
The result of the first engagement of the Aus-
tralian tour, attributable to the immediate striking of
fgrm on the part of Hill and Noble, must not let Aus-
tralia run away with the idea of a triumphal progress.
All the same, the opposition, if weak in bowling, was a
strong batting team, and the result should put the
visiting side in good heart.
* • *
C. J. Eady, once in an Australian XI., is still
the best all-round cricketer in Tasmania. In the South
Tas. Association he took both the batting and bowling
honors for the 1904-5 season—s 47 runs (average 54 - 7) and
55 wickets (average 14).
* * * *
The partially-formed Australian Cricket Board
consists of A. L. Adamson and E. Bean, A. W. Green and
W. M’Elhone. The first two represent Vic., the latter
N.S.W. The rest will come in later.
* * * *
Despite much “influence,” the English Maryle-
bone C.C. will not alter the leg-before-wicket rule. Leg-
break bowlers have been sighing for a change for many
years.
« * * •
It was many a long year since the “ Gentlemen
of England” had deigned to play an Australian team
before the recent match. The “ Gentlemen ” reckoned
that the Australians were not quite class enough to play
with. Result of this match will probably renew that
feeling. The brutal Australians gave the Gentlemen
a rare lot of leather-hunting. English professional
cricketers would never have dared to be so disrespectful
to their betters.
* * « •
Eirsfc Eleece deserved to win the Goodwood
Handicap (and £B3 11s. dividend), at S.A.J.O. meeting,
for the sake of her suitable name—a name with some
Australian meaning in it. By Carlyon-Golden Fleece, the
four-year-old mare is only a commoner, but she has more
grit than most of the Carlyons, and in a ding-dong finish
she showed the necessary bit of stamina.
« * * *
The bidding for the Spooner Hart thorough-
breds, at Randwick on Monday, was poor, and not an
animal changed hands. Of the nine mares offered, the
two Australians—Vanity Fair and Minerva—compared
very favorably with the English importations. For the
two stallions—Goya (son of Velasquez) and Strathroy,
known by his performances here—not a solitary bid was
received. Three mares (including Australian Vanity Fair)
were afterwards sold privately to W. and F. Moses, of
Combadello.
» • • •
Sometimes a man buys a racehorse to reassure
his creditors that he is sound financially.
* * m •
The Onkaparinga “bookie” who paid £5OO
for the gates only just cleared expenses with his
lottery. The weather for two or three days previous
to the race was very wet, and choked off numerous
buyers. He made an attempt to insure against a rainy
day, but none of the Adelaide insurance companies would
quote.
*- # .*. #
Probably the most sumptuous entertainment
held during race-week was the one given by two big
bookies at Paris House, Sydney. They had won heavily
during the Autumn meeting, and gave a dinner, at which
the guests were principally heavy losers.
* * • *
Old-time jockey Higgerson, now aged 93, talks
interestingly of the great match between Veno and Alice
Hawthorne, on October 3rd, 1857. A casual remark by
Richard Goldsbrough at Liverpool that he would like to
see a match between the pair resulted in one being
arranged for £lOOO a side. As Higgerson v.-as allowed
£350 expenses to go to Flemington, the Victorians were
practically laying odds on their horse. The day before
the match Higgerson met Fraser in Melbourne, and F. re-
marked that he wished, for the sake of Victoria, that it
was Van Tromp that was to meet Veno. Those were the
days when a man could hardly remark that it was a fine
day without being asked to bet on it, and this harmless
observation was at once construed as a challenge, and
another match, also for £lOOO a side, was arranged to be
run two hours after the Alice Hawthorne contest.
Higgerson got £250. Veno won both matches. Higger-
son felt that he was doing well, and kept on the good way
by riding Cooramin in a match for £4OO a side against
Tomboy over li miles.
# # * *
To date of present racing meeting dead Lochiel’s
get top the list of winners with £12,596, the result of 76
successes. Wallace’s progeny have accumulated £11,049
and Grafton’s £10,608.
• * • •
Biggest plum of the Wheat State’s 2-year-old
events—South Australian Stakes—was, on Saturday, won
by Koran-Tarloek colt, Torah, in a way that suggested it
would be. wise to note his name for future reference.
After the race a Victorian turf man offered, and owner
refused, 500 gs. for the youngster.
* * * *
The exclusion from Charters Towers (Q.) course
of bookmakers who refused to pay 'a two-guineas fee led
to the cyclists in one race striking. That should be
noted on all courses. If cyclist authorities can’t keep
the bookmaker well under, the • bookmaker and riders .
will bring the sport to the level of pony racing.
* # * *
It is said to be likely that a new chairman of
the V.R.C. will be appointed by the committee after the
election next August. Mr. S. Miller has held the position
since the retirement of Mr. C. B. Fisher some years ago.
Mr. Miller, it is said, is not anxious for re-election. With
the “reformers” of the committee on the job all the
time, the chairman’s billet is not a bed of roses.
• * * •
Great consternation in the ranks of the Mel-
bourne suburban racecourse proprietors throughtheaction
of the V.R.C. committee in cutting down dates. There are
six proprietary courses in Melbourne—Moonee Valley,
Maribyrnong, Mentone, Epsom, Aspendale Park, and
Sandown Park, in addition to the Williamstown, Caul-
field, Flemington, and three unregistered courses. Men-
tone has during the past year or two been controlled
by a small syndicate ; Epsom has been run in theinterests
of the old Standard Bank ; the Moonee Valley and Mari-
byrnong courses are run by Mr. A. H. Cox ; the Sandown
Park course is run (and run well) by Mr. “Caterer”
Skinner; while Mr. J. R. Crooke, who owned the famous
racehorse Saladin (winner of the Australian Cup after two
dead heats with Flying Dutchman), has Aspendale Park.
This is his private property and practically unencumbered. '
He has lately put a good motor-car trackdown in the centre
of it. The V.R.C. says that Mentone, Epsom and Aspen-
dale must have five days’ racing per year only (starting from
January 1 next), the Sandown Park seven and Mr. CoX
ten, but he can only keep open one course, which means
that Maribyrnong must be closed: There is some talk of
the suburban clubs joining together and racing “on their
own,” but that way madness lies. It is no doubt rough
on a few people, but racing in Melbourne has outgrown
legitimate proportions, and something had to be done.
Popular cross-country rider, Mick Mooney,
killed in Steeplechase at Caulfield on Saturday, met the
fate that, sooner or later, befalls most who follow the
same calling:. Mooney filled the place in the public mind
occupied by Tom Corrigan (killed in a Steeplechase on
the same course years ago), and other crack riders who
went before him. Fact that Mooney had the mount
usually shortened the odds against. a horse. Mooney
rode in Sydney’s unregistered ranks once, but during’ the
past 13 or 14 years had been riding in Melbourne, mostly
for Messrs. Miller’s “Redleap” stable as first jockey; he
was on winner (Rawdon) of V.R.C. Grand National
Hurdles in 1902, and beat Col. Shilinski purely by fine
horsemanship. Mr. Miller bought Col. Shilinski subse-
quent to the race; and Mooney, the following month,
won Caulfield Grand National Hurdles and Steeple on him.
Other winners ridden by the dead jockey were Grafnell
(Grand National Steeplechase) and Realgar (Caulfield
Grand National Hurdles).
* * * *
Official openihg of the Rugby season in Sydney
on Saturday found fair crowds of onlookers in spite of
the continuous downpour of rain and the quagmire
grounds. At the University Oval over a thousand people
gazed upon North Sydney and Newtown ; at Rushcutters
Bay twice that number watched Glebe and Sydney fall
over each other ; and the smallest crowd was that which
rolled up to see the University, the crack team of last
season, beat Western Suburbs by one point. Ex-English-
man Swannell played for North Sydney in the forward
division, and was an ornament to his side. The day ended
with South Sydney and University winning their matches
(against Eastern and Western Suburbs respectively) by
one point each. Glebe and Sydney drew, as also did
North Sydney and Newtown. There are the makings of
some good footballers in Sydney, and if the papers would
speak severely of the man who breaks the 50 yards record
into the middle of the enemy’s pack, instead of saying
“Longlegs made a splendidly plucky run,” we’d get some
good out of them.
* * * *
Australian football was in full blast in Sydney
on Saturday, in spite of the heavy downpour of rain, and
on some of the fields there was danger of whole teams
being smothered in the mud. The Sydney District Club
tasted the full bitterness of defeat, when the Y.M.O.A.
crowd downed-them by 28 points to 21. What made it
extra bitter was the fact that it is the first time the good
young men have won since 1903. The days when to be a
member of the Y.M.C.A. meant being a degenerate
youth, with long, lank hair parted in the middle, are
past. Now-a-days there is a strong smack of the Crom-
wellian spirit about the Association, and the members
play football, swim, box, and use the single-sticks in a
way that excites hearty disgust in the breasts of the
Bathurst-street push. Nearly every team was short-
handed on Saturday, including Sydney. Paddington
team shows plenty of combination, or rather has a
backbone which plays a good, combined game, and by the
time the rest of the crowd catch the knack it will be a
tough team. Some of the players were hopelessly out of
condition. Players should start training before the
season begins, and get themselves into decent trim.
• * * * *
N.S.W. Rugby Union is going to make a big
effort to boom country football. In Sydney first-grade
competition a bye occurs each match to the ninth team,
and each team will be sent to a different part of the
State in order to unearth fresh, lusty, young players.
Also, seven country teams will be brought to Sydney for
“ Country week,” which begins on June 3rd.
* * * *
Westralian “ soccer ” football team has returned
home after losing all three of its “test-matches” in
Adelaide. The second and third were each lost by one
goal only. (But one goal means a good deal in this low-
scoring game ; ! in the final match the score was 1 to 0.)
Westralians’ age averaged 23, and they had all learned
the game while at school. S.A. men were older, and had
nearly all learned it in England ; and experience carried
the day.
» T * *
Victorian football season opened on Saturday to
bumper houses of keenly-interested barrackers, notwith-
standing the exposures of semi-professionalism made
when the councils of both League and Association were
considering the'matter of permits. By the way, the
League (the eight senior clubs) and the Association (the
ten next best) are now at open war. Latter wants to
keep its best players, with a view to good gates, and re-
fused several permits for transfers to League clubs, where-
upon the League council desired the Association ditto to
appear and explain its obstreperousness. The Ass. practi-
cally told League it would see it further first, and refused
transfer permits absolutely. Some players went over in
despite, and are, of course, ungetatable until the day
comes when .they begin to fall off, and want to play with
a minor club once more, when the cold breeze of ven-
geance will blow on them. Best of Saturday’s games was
at Fitzroy, where, with the issue in doubt right till the
bell, ’Roy, last year’s premiers, beat Collingwood, third
last season, by 34 points to 31. ’Twas a fast, fair and lively
game, but the kicking was vile, and kicking counts
a lot when one side of a post counts six points where the
other side means only one. Carlton v. Essendon also gave
a fine finish, the “ same old Essendon ” being over-run in
the last quarter, finishing 52 points to Carlton’s 60. Early
play indicates little change in the relative strength of
League teams from last season, but in the Association
both premiers (North Melbourne) and runners-up (Rich-
mond) went down, former to Ports, by 55 to 39, and latter
to W. Melb., by 56 to 40. At a moderate estimate, 70,000
watched the League teams and more than half as many
the Association, besides which the various junior clubs
had good audiences.
® * * * •
Already the English Rugbyites are talking of
“ coming again ” to rip the laurels Sivright lost from
Maoriland’s nobility. Said that the team will fall on
Maoriland in 1907, and that, at even this distant date, the
selection committee is hampered by having too many to
select from.
* » » »
At time of writing, there are in Sydney crews
from Tasmania, Queensland, S.A., Westralia and Victoria,
. to compete in the inter-State eight-oar race and Amateur
Sculling Championship. The general impression is that
the Croweaters are about the most formidable crowd, and,
when judged among their peers, the Sydney crew is far
from the least promising. When the original crew was
wrecked by the resignation of sundry rowers, who
imagined they could not be done without, there was a
general impression that N.S.W. was done for. Now it is
found that the new men are, on their showing, just as
good as the old warriors who thought they had become
indispensable. Their stroke is longer than that of the
heavy Tasmanian crowd, who are unusually strong, and
whose boat runs very fast between strokes. The Westra-
lians also row short, and N.S.W. appears to keep much
better time than the Gropers.
* * * •
Not unlikely that Towns-Stanbury match for
world’s sculling supremacy, to come off in July, will be
rowed on the Hunter River, through the action of certain
speculators, who have secured all the most suitable Sydney
boats for stationary positions. Scullers and their advisers
vow the Parramatta won’t see the race unless persons re-
ferred to give way. Towns and Stanbury are right in their
stand, for steamer money takes the place of “gate” to
them, and is their only certain compensation. Towns and
Tressider had to face a similar situation, and lost con-
siderably in consequence.
* # # *
Stevenson, seemingly, can give Weiss nearly
half the game at billiards. Playing in London, the other
week, Weiss got a start of 2250 in 9000 from the champion,
and was beaten by 1580 points.
* * * *
The annual meeting of the Federal Cycling
Council threatens to be unusually stormy, and there is a
possibility that the N.S.W. League of Wheelmen may
withdraw from the body. After compelling the lifting of
MacFarland’s disqualification, and allowing the Westralian
League to do as it liked, the Federal body became a mere
weathercock, and broke its pivot trying to whirl into
positions in .which it would offend nobody, and now it
hasn’t got a friend. The quarrelsome, grab-all leagues
want tqj?e ruled with a rod of iron and kicked thoroughly,
but it rhust be a just rod and the kicking done in a spirit
of stern equity.
» * • •
Christchurch, Maoriland, which in the early
days became the most “ bikey ” city in the world, is now
gone mad on the motor, and people who are not an a
position to buy motors for themselves join clubs in which
cars are bought on the Star-Bowkett lines. The council
the other day drafted regulations prohibiting the cars
travelling more than 6 miles per hour in the city, and
compelled the driver to keep a bell ringing or a horn
tooting continuously. Result was the traffic was nearly
paralysed by the creeping motors, and the city became a
regular pandemonium with the clang and croak of
innumerable bells and horns. The council met in haste
and re-cast its regulations, limiting speed in the city
proper to 8, and outside to 12 miles an hour, and
making it necessary to clang or croak only when
approaching a corner or when rapidly overhauling
a foot passenger. The conditions under which a man may
leave his motor against the sidewalk are fairly stringent
but eminently sensible. While the council is about it, it
might make it a heavily punished offence to leave chil-
dren of tender years in charge of horses. A horse which
might take fright at its own shadow is a much more
dangerous thing to be left in charge of a baby than a
motor car—the motor may bolt, but it never takes fright.
• * * *
Departed Americawards last Monday, in the
Sonoma, Ivor Lawson and Floyd MacFarland. Lawson is
not going to the world’s championships meeting, which
comes off in Antwerp this year. Kramer and Major
Taylor will be there, and somehow, with the top dressing
of the Exhibition track still thick upon him, Ivor doesn’t
fancy his chances against Major. Also, Kramer and
Major are understood to have skinned the Parisian pro-
moters of most of the appearance money they have to
throw about. Ivor will challenge the winner, whom he
confidently expects to be Major Taylor, to race some-
where in the States. It is expected that there will be a
general re-union in Sydney in 1906.
Ellegaard and Andersen in company with Rutt
and Australian George Farley go direct to Europe. They
are making for the World’s championships meeting.
Andersen may do something to astonish the Dutchmen.
He had only been racing two years when he came to
Australia, and the way he rode some of the races here
suggested that he had"the makings of a mighty sprinter
about him. Although the championships are to be
decided in Holland the best of the season’s racing will be
seen at Paris and in London. The Parisian managers pay
the biggest appearance money in the world, and con-
sequently get the best of the showing.
Motor cycling is threatening to boom in N.S.W.
The Pioneer Club is increasing in membership/and road
and track races are being talked of. One of the first races
will probably be a speed and reliability test from Bathurst
to Sydney, to be run on the same day as the road race for
bicycles. There are reasons why it should not come off
on the same date, as some of the cyclists might manage to
make use of the motor bikes as pace-makers, which would
be distinctly unfair to competitors not similarly blessed.
* % * *
The Australian Golf Club is, at last, to lose the
extensive tract of land at Botany, which it has held for
seven years. The Ascot Racing Club takes possession on
the 11th instant. Tenders for levelling, etc., will be
shortly called for.
* * * *
N.S.W. is the only section of the continent that
shows a loss through the visit of Duffey and Shrubb.
* * * *
At the London Lyceum, Tarro Myaka, the
great exponent of ju-jitsu, has several times failed for over
10 minutes to put a grip on Joe Carroll (the catch-as-
catch-can wrestler) from which he could not escape.
* * * •
The most kissed youth in Sydney for a long time
past was record swimmer B. Kieran at his departure for
England on Saturday. Beauty-acting is evidently not in
it with swimming as an attraction for the pretty birds
for whose feathers we all toil. They were there in bat-
talions, and Kieran, with real heroism, settled down
grimly to kiss the lot—and some of the minxes came up
for a second attention. Someone has advanced a theory
that, owing to atmospheric conditions and “ the density
of the water,” it is easier to make fast times in Australia
and America than in Western Europe. Others have
scoffed at our time-takers, and at the length of the baths
in which our records have been made. When Kieran gets
to Britain he will be able to show them how much there
is in this talk.
» * • *
“Old Timer”: Don’t agree with “G.B.’s”
remarks anent the Channel swim. Webb, Cavill, Hol-
bein, and most others, were not fast swimmers, especially
Webb (who invariably broke the surface with his kick,
and swam both heels out of'water) and Holbein, who did
all his swimming on his back. Of the dozens who essayed
the task, writer can’t remember one young man among
them. Webb succeeded, but he was nearer dead than
alive at the end, and only skill and close attention
brought him round. Cavill’s swim lacks satisfactory
endorsement; it is claimed for him that he completed the
trip, but had to be taken aboard an accompanying boat
through reaching a section of the English coast where
landing was impossible. Whenever a speedy swimmer
tackled the job he demonstrated that its accomplishment
in a very much shorter period than Webb’s swim was
possible where the necessary high degree of vitality
existed. Burgess’ remarkable attempt last year is the
latest case in point ; but Burgess was too old, and hadn’t
properly prepared himself. Why is the thing not within
Annette Kellermann’s powers? She is a young, strong, well-
developed, plucky woman, and a first-class swimmer—the
requirements in every respect. A Viennese woman
(Madame Icacescu) tried the Channel swim a season or
two back, and got very near indeed to success ; and Miss
Kellermann’s qualifications, in age, swimming, and
physique, are much superior to those of the Austrian.
* * * «
“Natator”: Bulletin par. (4/5/’O5) re the
Kieran-Hill-Mitchell trouble unintentionally wronged the
N.S.W. Amateur Swimming Association, which, as a
body, had nothing whatever to do with the matter till
Mr.‘Mitchell’s appointment; and then, at the suggestion
of the “ Kieran movement ” committee, Mr. Hill was
chosen at a meeting of the Kieran committee (which a
previous public meeting called by Mr. Mitchell had
elected). Mr. Mitchell "wasn’t accepted through being
little known, while all swimming people knew Mr. Hill
thoroughly. Further, Kieran stated to several individuals
that he was “only trying to do Mr. Mitchell a good turn”
(commendable gratitude), and would go with Mr. Hill if
his friend wasn’t approved of.
* * * #
Just possible that this season may see a Canadian
lacrosse team touring Australia and Maoriland. The Vic.
Association has guaranteed half the cost of the tour, and
it is proposed that N.S.W., Queensland, Soustralia, and
M.L. make up the balance between them.
* * * »
Al. Neill, of California, and J. Blackmore, of
Sydney Rocks, met in the Sydney National Sporting Club
ring last weqlc and gave an exhibition of genteel fight-
ing. Did they fall over each other, the man w'ho was on
his feet first rushed to lift the other up, and save any un-
due wear and tear of his hindleg muscles. Did either hit
while the shadow of the other’s hand was on him, they
promptly shook hands and threatened to fall on one
another’s necks, and even the D.T. reporter must have
gone home thinking how beautiful it is of the brethren to
stoush together in amity. In the 11th round a right chip
on the point of the chin saw Blackmore sway most grace-
fully. The ’Murkan smilingly pushed him off, he swayed
gently to the floor, and was outed.
* * » •
Sydney Gaiety Athletic Club saw a desperate
battle between bantam champion, E. Green, of Sydney,
and S. Wilmott, of Victoria, iast week. This event was
to have been for the championship, but as Wilmott had
the misfortune to scale a few ounces over the statutory
Bst. 41b., all that was left to fight for was the loot and the
glory. Green opened with a series of savage attacks, and
Wilmott faded out of reach with artistic skill. Sometimes,
however, he didn’t fade quickly enough, and caught blows
that raised lumps. For three rounds he was a virtual
target, and then he came again, and although Green
could hardly find a space that didn’t carry a lump, the
plucky Victorian fought back to such purpose that at the
end of six bitter rounds he had the champion once more
on the defensive. Then it became a mere slogging match,
both having apparently forgotten there is such a thing as
defence. A right cross sent Green down, but he came up
like an indiarubber ball, and rushed in to finish it, only to
be smashed back twice. Then Wilmott was floored three
times in one round, and was down again in the 13th, bi t
came up at 8. The 14th saw the end : a right swing ar.d
a left hook, and down went Wilmott. Up again at 8, and
another swing and hook, and as he staggered to his knees
his corner dropped in the towel, and Wilmott retired
beaten, but covered with credit and contusions.
• * * *
Victorian and Broken Hill heavyweight pugs,
Bob Fraser and Bill Lang, made things torrid, at Mel-
bourne Queen’s Hall, last week. They were up and down
in turn often. Fight looked surely Fraser’s during the
first Smin. Lang was spread-eagled twice, and barely
recovered himself before the second round. Then he
dealt out thump liberally, and had the game his way the
greater part of several following toe-to-toe rallies. Larig
was a gory spectacle in the ninth term through the
copious flow from a badly smashed nose, but yet was the
better man to back tili Frazer slipped to the floor and
Lang, crazed with excitement, hurled a vicious swing at
him while he was still on his knees ; consequence, prompt
disqualification.
* * * *
“ T.W.” : Ju-jitsu may be all right to tackle a
man who can’t use his hands, but it struck me, while
looking at the private exhibition of it at Fitzs’. circus,
that if a snaky-looking Jap came circling round a chap
who possessed such a thing as a “dirty left,” and the
said chap did not wait for the Jap to worry him round in
a circle, and flop him about on the ground, but simply
landed that Jap one on the point, he would just go to
sleep allee same as a man that didn’t play ju-jitsu. But
one thing is evident, it’s no good hitting the Jap on the
throat, or wrastling with him on the ground —he know r s
too much.
* ¥ * *
In view of the fact that there is a certain
amount of doubt (in other States at any rate) in regard
to the accuracy of time-taking at Randwick, the question
has often been asked why the A.J.C. does not procure an
electric clock, such as is in use at Caulfield and Flemington,
where there can be no possible doubt as to the correct-
ness of the times recorded. These clocks are made by a
Melbourne firm, and cost close on £4OO each. The A.J.C.
w'ould, it is said, have taken one some time ago had the
Melbourne firm agreed to the name of a Sydney clock-
maker appearing on the face of it. Now that Federation
of the States has been accomplished, one would have
thought that pettiness of this kind would have been
dropped. '
The Australian XI. doesn’t seem to have
been much disturbed by the sometime bleak spring
weather of the cold country. There is no need.
Intervals of genial Australian climate at its best
can be obtained, as Darling and Co., well know,
by occasional stimulations of D.C.L. the famous
brand of whisky. D.C.L. —Scotland’s noblest
product—supplies that joyful mental sunshine
which is the heritage of the healthy and the
wise.
Owing to the foolish woodenness of the
Federal Public Service Act and its administration,
the hardship of dismissal now threatens certain
useful officers in the Customs department. Some
nine or ten men have been employed in this de-
partment for three years to meet a pressure of
work following the new tariff. Their services are
still necessary, but rigorous clauses in the Public
Service Act say they must be sacked. They can-
not be kept on as temporary officers any longer,
and the Act declares that they are too old to be
appointed as permanent hands (that is to say they
are all aged 30 or thereabouts). When they are
dismissed their places will have to be taken by in-
experienced youths. Cannot such an injustice and
such a folly be prevented ? No one would make
any objection if the Executive delayed the dis-
missal of these men until Parliament can meet and
remedy sonie of the evils arising from the too-
stringent Public Service Act.
Anti-Federalism’s Newest Move.
Mr. Josiah Stmon, in his campaign against the
High Court, has tried another device. He has
written to the Victorian Govt, that in the Privy
Council appeal, Outtrim v. the State of Victoria,
the Federal Government will appoint no counsel
if the counsel appearing for Victoria will sketch for the
information of the Privy Council the history of the case,
the decision of the High Court upon the first case, and
the Constitutional issues involved.
Which looks very fine and fair, but, at bottom,
amounts to this : that the Federal Government
proposes to let the case go by default, trusting to
the opposing counsel to put its views before the
Privy Council! And the issue involved is no
longer the paltry one of the payment of income
tax by a few civil servants, but the large one of
the power of the Privy Council to review a decision
of the Australian High Court in a matter which
the Australian Constitution especially reserves for
final jurisdiction to our own court. In fact, the
validity of the Constitution itself is to be put
under review, and Mr. Symon proposes not to
appoint any counsel to argue for the Constitution,
and Mr. Reid cordially approves !
A Word About Testimonials.
THEIR VALUE. WHY ONE CARRIES MORE
WRIGHT THAN ANOTHER.
Behind every printed testimonial of a cure
effected by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills there
are thousands of others unprinted. Tens of
thousands of men and women have testified to
the cures of scrofula, sores, pimples, boils and
blotches, eczema, and rheumatism (caused by the
blood’s impurities) through the use of this remedy.
If the fact that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
purify the blood was required to be proved in a
court of law, and one thousand witnesses were
waiting to testify, justice would have, no use for
nine hundred and ninety-seven witnesses of the
thousand ; it would call two or three representative
witnesses, and on their evidence the case would be
decided. Those who witness to the blood-purify-
ing power of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
reputable, reliable and responsible people, whose
testimony would carry weight in any court of law
in the land. It shoiild carry weight with you. It
is one of the contradictions of human nature that
people who believe “that all men are created of
one blood ” belie their own belief in practice. If
John Smith testifies to a cure, little notice is
taken of the fact; if Senator somebody is cured of
a boil, then the medicine must be all right; yet
blood is the same in King and Kaiser, Prince and
Peasant, Senator and Tramp. It is made in the
same way, of digested food ; it is circulated by
the same mechanism. If an Emperor’s blood is
impure he will have boils or some other eruption,
like the commonest of his subjects. The medicine
that will purify the blood of somebody, will purify
the blood of anybody. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills purify the blood, anybody’s blood, every-
body’s blood. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
a positive and permanent cure for biliousness,
constipation, indigestion, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.*


AGONY WITH PILES
— "■—
A BUS-DRIVER PRAISES ZAM-BUK.
THE agony of Piles is as excruciating
as the disease itself is weakening.
Whatever form this ailment takes,
and whether it arises from a debili-
tated condition of the system, or a dis-
turbance of the digestive functions, Zam-
Buk can be recommended as a valuable
remedy. It helps to soothe the pain,
reduces swelling and inflammation, and
enables rest and comfort to come to the
worn-out sufferer. How effectively Zam-
Bult acts is shown by the following case
“Being a bus-driver,” says Mr. George
Tipping, of Arthur-street, Teneriffe, Bris-
bane, Q., “lam constantly exposed to all
sorts of weather. Although generally
blessed with good health, a few months ago
I had the misfortune to contract that awful
oomplaint, Piles, caused, I think, by sitting . _ , ■ . w _„
on a wet seat. The misery and inconvenience that accompanied this complaint
siderable, and I lost no time in trying to get rid of it. Hearing Zam-Bvik so we P
of, I purchased a pot and applied the balm as directed. The very first applicatio „,
the burning and itching sensation, and had an extremely soothing IJ ™uenc .
encouraged, I continued the treatment, and after a few more applications the „
thoroughly cured. I always recommend Zam-Bult as a prompt and reliable cure
/
/
/
//
ZAM-BUK, the Great Healer, is a SPEEDY CURE for PILES ECZEMA,
RUNNING SORES, SORE LEGS, RINGWORM, RHEUMATISM, LUM-
BAGO, SCIATICA, etc. As an EMBROCATION for ST RAINED MUSCLES awl
TENDONS, ZAM-BUK, rubbed well into the parts affected, is unequalled. As aHU UP-
HOLD BALM for CUTS, BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES BLACKHEADS,
SORE THROAT, SORE CHEST, CHAPPED HANDS CHILBLAINS SORE
FEET, RASH and BITES of INSECTS ZAM-BUK s
invaluable. Obtainable from all Medicine Vendors at 1/ , /
FAMILY SIZE (containing nearly four times the quam
titv), or from THE ZAM-BUK
CO., 39 PITT STREET, SYD-
NEY. Send a penny stamp
for FREE
SAMPLE
POT.
t
m
<33
*0
HEALING
SOOTHING
ANTISEPTIC.
p rhc 'm
Only kind *
I that wont
W%Dry o n .
fuc(r
■WILLIAMS"
SHAVING SOAP
-yyE recently advertised that a Bar o!
WILLIAMS’ BARBER’S BAR
Weighed “ 16 Honest English Ounces.”
WE DID OURSELVES AN IN-
JUSTICE, and we desire to
thank our good friends, the
Customs, for “ putting us
wise.” The Collector rules
that on every case containing
100 Bars of Williams’ Shaving
Soap (each bar being sold to
our friend the barber as a
Pound of Only Sixteen
Ounces) we must pay duty on
a weight of 112£lbs.
Williams’ is the only Shaving
Soap that pays duty on a
freater weight than the bar-
er pays for.
WE HAVE NOT ADVANCED
THE PRICE.
As good citizens we cheerfully
contribute the extra 3/2 per
case to the Commonwealth
revenue.
(t you like a Novelty, send a Penny Stamp for
Williams’ Triplet Key Ring.
J. B. WILLIAMS CO.,
232 Clarence St., Sydney.
C. Stratmann’
FINE...
Made on tiib
Premises
CHOCOLATES .-a
SWEETHEATS
124 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, Next to
Lawson’s Auction Boom.
Fresh Every Day.
sf
YeryOldVattcd
——■■■"■»
LiqueurWhiskt.
Distilled Scßottlcd by
7 (yrU
Kilmarnock .Scotland,
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d,; Posted, 8d
EBB
A
1=
QIQ
SAB
itiOß the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-C ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Btreet Coffee Palace," “«I
situated at 60 KINO STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS
W. W. GREENER'S
World-Renowned GUNS
sd
. Awarded Grand Prize,
St. Louis Exposition, 1931.
GREENER'S
CLUB RIFLES 3J0&297/230
Best in the market for Kangaroo
and Ladies’ Rifle Clubs.
All Riflemen should read “ For Sport and
War,” by W. W. GREENER. 180 Pages,
100 Illustrations, Posted 1/2.
GREENER’S GUNS and RIFLES-a Large
Stock on hand.
Catalogues and Price Lists on application
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne
(Greener’s Representative)
/
I have just opened a Splendid Assortment of
autumh anp winter
FOUR-GUINEA SUITINGS.
Samples and Measure Forms sent Post Free to any address.
E. T. WALSH, High - Class Tailor,
359 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ASK FOR WH«
FRANZ JOSEF LA6ER
PURE, WHOLESOME and INVIGORATING. There is Nothing Better.
Two Coleraine (Vic.) honorariums lately
fined a Hindoo hawker £2 for an offence against
a white boy, so revolting that the evidence had to
be taken with closed doors. The fine was paid
and the beast let loose.
S.M. Herald printed a good Saturday
article on “Man the Master,” showing how our
121 b. Orpingtons are derived from the 31b. wild
fowl of Asia, and the useful watchdog has been
simply bred up from the wolf. That’s a good
brick to aim at the Herald, which inclines to the
parsons’ view that “all men are brothers, and
that it is wicked to keep the Chow at arm s
length. If our brother, Ah Sin, is good enough
for a brother-in-law, Towser’s brother, the wolf,
ought to be good enough for a watchdog.
One is staggered at the blazing impudence
of the foreign-traders on the Tariff Commission.
There is no pretence that they are there to inquire
into the effect of the tariff on Australian industry.
One will ask questions on the relative prices of
Australian and other exportations in foreign
countries, admittedly from written information
supplied to him ; another will produce an alleged
interview with an Australian manufacturer printed
in an obscure Yankee print, which inust have
been furnished him by an interested importer.
And all plead hard for foreign industry.
“Even if Socialism will lessen the burden
of the worker and redress human misery,” says
G. Reid, “ surely the place to try the experiment
is not Australia ? There are other countries much
more in need of the amelioration.” Consequently
Mr. Watson and his party should instantly set
off to Russia or Turkey, and conduct their cam-
paign in those much more necessitous lands.
On the same lines it may be pointed out to G.
Reid that Germany and United States are much
more in need of Rreetrade than Australia, conse-
quently Germany or U.S. is his proper sphere of
action. There should be a movement at once to
present George with a walking-stick, a dog-chain
and travelling-bag.
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES-
MORRIS’S^
"imperial." Imperial
sfd
* *
Ointment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-.
-baiYiMs A stores. Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melb,
“ H.S.T.” on a medical subject -
Dr. Abramowski, of Mildura (Vic.), has achieved no
little local fame by his adoption and advocacy of a fruit
and nut diet, and, by his starvation treatment of disease.
By this treatment he has almost banished the fear of
typhoid from the district. Pripr to the adoption of the
starvation system the records oi ( the local hospital for 12
years showed an average of a fraction under three deaths
per annum from typhoid. Since February, 1903, when
the new treatment was initiated, there has not been one
death from that disease, though nearly 60 cases have in
that time passed through the books. Two fatal cases,
reported originally as typhoid, proved on post mortem
examination to have been due to abscess on the liver and
meningitis respectively. All food of any kind, as well as
drugs is forbidden the patients, who are directed to
solace themselves with copious draughts of boiled water.
Three or four weeks’ fasting puts most men on the high
road to recovery, but one patient, a Presbyterian parson,
with lots of fat to draw on, went for 51 days without
tasting food of anv kind. The universal testimony of
patients is, that after the first couple of days, all desire
for food is dead. Generally speaking, temperature is
much reduced by this treatment, and patients retain
their mental faculties practically unimpaired, tendency
to delirium being almost entirely removed. Health and
flesh are regained very rapidly after the fever and fast
are over.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
BELTING
iH
it recommended (o Mine Manager*. It*
Efficiency and Durability under wet condition*
renders its use more economical than leather
belting. Made endless (without atretch), nay
length, up to 60 inches wide.
SAMPLE AND PRICE ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. of AUST. LTD.,
tot Flinders 51., Melbourne : ISO Clnrenec St..
Sydney : 117 Grenfell St.. Adelaide; 268-270 Adelaide
St . Brisbane; 617 Hay Si., Perth; 12* Llehfield St..
Christchurch. N.Z.
f
Dunlop
Packings
Are Recommended
in all cases where
good wear is -required
You will find the Quality
and Price right.. Sample
of any class of Packing
on application.
THE DUNLOP TYRE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 150 Clarence
Street. Sydney; 1 Orenfelf Street,, Adelaide;
*6B-370 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 617 Hay
Street. Perth; 128 Lichfield Street, Chrfsl,-
church. N.Z.
W\\\


m
%
//tv
•t'o
Vt'A
i
r A
4
a
r,
A
%
T*\
X\
w*
=-2
/[
m
Q
i
/ii
Wl
The Yankee Harvester Trust
v . Australia .
The Yankee Harvester Octopus claims to do 90 per cent, of
the World’s implement trade. At any rate, the figures placed
before the Tariff Commission as Yankee exports for year ending
February, 1905, are as follows :
Argentina £2,680,929
British N. America ... 1,853,478
France 1.80,3,768
Russia 2,797,540
United Kingdom 991,231
British Australasia ... 861,672
These are .selling invoice values, not values for Customs purposes
only. Some interesting light was thrown on this matter by Mr.
Mackay in his evidence before the Tariff Commission. He
stated efforts had been made to pass entries at invoice value of
£26, while machines were passed through the Customs at a value
of £3B 2s. 6d. while they were being retailed at £Bl to £99.
THE OCTOPUS OR THE AXE?


“SUNSHINE” ON DARKEST AMERICAN METHODS.
The H. V. Mackay Great Sunshine Harvester Case.— See Tariff Commission Report .
*~ u I CAucouATe
THIS «S A GOOD
TW - P u<bH
[J
ƒ
. ais(d zvp T yy^-A u - '
Cva* yOvK-'nfefW;/.-if she h*s
SPrsjsfe.-^-
ft rMo, Oracle, IvF CrOT A V-VTTI-e. ju-j»Tzo _
HOLD ors TOU The OF „
H'QK SPECIFIC DuT'f- MOW "10V c;eT *
•"tPl*
VS£AO>
€.*POPO
__ TO FMt\ T£RN\S*
lie. «c w Sor-tr>Y, I've COLLARED TKKY '~IACHII'»E. " F
J yours, You get out or the. Business, SUCK.


Legal Notice.
“pURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division of the
High Court of Justice made in the Matter of the
Estate of Jane Elizabeth Hall deceased and in an Action
Joyce v Joyce 1904. H. No. 4124 an Enquiry was directed
in the following terms “An Enquiry whether John
Widdrington Hall the brother of the Testatrix in the said
Will mentioned was living at the death of the Testatrix
and if so whether he had died since the death of the
Testatrix and if he has so died who are his legal personal
representatives and if the said John Widdrington Hall
was not living at the death of the Testatrix whether the
said John Widdrington Hall had any and if any what
children and whether such children or any and which of
them were living at the death of the said Testatrix and if
any of such children were so living whether any of them
have died since the death of the said Testatrix and if any
of them have so died who are their respective legal
personal representatives and whether any and if any what
grandchildren and remoter issue of the said John
Widdrington Hall were living at the death of the
Testatrix and if any of such grandchildren or remoter
issue were so living whether any of them have died since
the death of the Testatrix and if any of them have so died
who are their respective legal personal representatives.”
NOW the said John Widdrington Hall if living is or if
he be dead all persons claiming to be interested under the
above enquiry are by their Solicitors on or before the 31st.
day of July 1905 to come in and prove their claims at the
Chambers of Mr. Justice Parwell and Mr. Justice Swinfen
Eady at the Royal Courts of Justice Strand London
England or in default thereof they will be peremptorily
excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Wednesday the 2nd. day of August 1905 at 1 o’clock in
the afternoon at the said Chambers is appointed for hear-
ing and adjudicating upon the claims
Dated this sth day of April 1905
E. W. WALKER,
Master.
GROSSMAN PRICHARD CROSSMAN & BLOCK
16 Theobalds Road, Grays Inn,
London, England
Agents for
Denison & Slater,
Newcastle upon Tyne, England
Plaintiffs Solicitors.
For Sale.
Mine 0 Machinery
For Sale or Lease.
Mount Steadman Gold Mining
Co., Ltd., in Liquidation.
'jpENDERS are invited for the purchase or lease of the
whole of the Assets of the above Company, con-
sisting of Two Mining Leases of 25 acres each, situated at
Mount Steadman, distant about four miles from the
Gayndah Railway Line now under construction, and 19
miles from Degilbo, the present terminus.
The Mine is equipped with a First-class 10-head Battery,
Engines and Boilers manufactured by Walkers Limited,
Tramway ‘Rails, Trams, two Steam Pumps, 95 chains
4J inch Water Pipe connecting the Mill Tanks with the
Dam. All the Houses and Equipments are perfectly
new and up-to-date, with the most modern appliances for
gold saving.
Particulars and List of Stores, &c., supplied by the
undersigned on application.
Tenders to be in hand by 5 p.m. on 10th June, 1905.
By Order,
ROBERT JONES,
Liquidator.
Richmond Street,
Maryborough, 3rd May, 1905.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
THE
DEAF
HEAE
By using the Wilson Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
j tressing head noises write
I for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering, Ad-
dress-Star Novelty 00.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melb.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
DAY
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: '* ‘Viyella* has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
W. DUNKUNC,
THE JEWELLER,
Watchmaker &, Silversmith,
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne*
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT FOR
FREE. —The best and most complete Catalogue
published in Australia of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods posted free on application.
\
Sr
/
I
No. 446.
GENT’S STERLING SILVER HUNTING
KEYLESS WALTHAM WATCH,
Compensation Balance, Fully Jewelled, Extra Heavy
Case. Specially made for the Australian climate.
Guaranteed in writing for 3 years. Post Free to any
part of Australia-
-45
I
I ■sPat-SFH:
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
52-58 Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and 00.
Brisbane.
Catalogues Free.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
’Of course voii have System
in your office. BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER !
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
fds
Rothweirs
Only Address,
Edward St., Brisbane.
Manufacturers of Maaonlo
Regalia. Best Quality Blue
Apron and Case, £lls. [B.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Oxerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALL PORT A POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared bv I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
26 High-street, Lelfast, Ireland.
Amusements.
FITZGERALD BROS. 1
Colossal Circus, Menagerie,
and Horse Fair.
BBL M O R.E PARK.
THE GREATEST SHOW
the Arm has ever introduced to an appreciative jury of
their fellow-countrymen.
LAST WEEKS. LAST WEEKS.
GRAND CHANGE OP PROGRAMME
a Deoided and Emphatic Success.
THE COMETS THE
On the Roman Rings. (Their First Appearance),
“AERIC,” “AERIC,” “ AERIC,"
the only man in existence who can stand on a swinging
trapeze-bar without touching it with his hands.
The HERBERT TROUPE of Aerial Trapeze
Gymnasts, from Barnum’s (New York), Olympia
(London), and Chiniselli’s (St. Petersburg). Five
Ladies and Gentlemen.
Immense Success of the MUSICAL WEA THERLEYS
and the Combined Continental Company.
“ JU-JITSU ” WRESTLING,
A MARVELLOUS EXHIBITION of Peculiar Bouts be-
tween a Japanese Champion, “ OTOKOJIMA ” and
Dr. GORDON.
A REVELATION in the art of SELF-DEFENCE, now
being practiced by the Army & Navy of the Whole World.
MATINEES: WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS,
and all Holidays.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s, and Is. Children Half-price, ex-
cept to Pit. Box Plan at Paling’s. Comfortable Seating,
Brilliant Lighting, Superb Dressing, Lovely Horses and
Ponies. FRANK JONES, Agent.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS at 7.45. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON at 2.
ANOTHER GREAT AND UNDOUBTED TRIUMPH
achieved by the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE CINGALEE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. GEO. STEPHENSON.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of MR. GEO. STEPHENSON’S
ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY
IK
THE SKIRT DANCER.
SAT. NEXT, MAY 13, THE ROSE OF THE RIVIERA.
Matinees Every Wednesday. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT and Miss MAUD JEFFRIEB la
IF I WERE KING.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 13, Grand Revival for a FEW
NIGHTS ONLY, THE ETERNAL CITY.
Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s and Is.
SCOTTISH ENTERTAINER,
Miss Jean Howison, of Perth, Scotland,
Interpreter of
ROBERT BURNS and lAN MACLAREN.
Address : The Bulletin.
QUEEN’S HALL, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sub-Lessee Mr. J. A. Miller.
OPEN TO-DAY from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m.
SUCCESS Of the FAMOUS AMAZON GIANTESS,
ABOM A H,
THE TALLEST LADY IN THE WORLD.
ADMISSION, Is. ; CHILDREN, 6d.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY
* Sole Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, headed by
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN,
in the New and Original Life-like Play,
A GIRL’S CROSS ROADS
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, MAY 13,
THE FEMALE SWINDLER.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is. Plan at Elvy’s.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
• Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Tumultuous Applause Greeted the Re-appearance of
LITTLE TICH. Nine More Nights Only.
Emphatic Success of MAX MILIAN, Mr. NAT TRAVERB,
Mr. W. F. HAWTREY and Miss W. AUSTIN.
Most Enthusiastic Reception of MISS ALICE PIERCE.
Immediate Success of Mr. WAL ROBINS, the Original
Black and White Comedian, MDLLE. ALICE CUERRA,
French and Spanish Soubrette and Dancer.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
MR. FRED ANDREWS and his MAGIC KETTLE.
FIGAROS, Character Vocalists and Specialty Dancers.
HARRY TAFT, Whistling Comedian.
First Appearance of LEO DRY DEN, Actor
Vocalist, Descriptive Comedian.
Change of Programme by WINTON, Ventriloquist,
and M’CINTY.
FANNY POWERS, FORD & BENTLEY, CARDEN WILSON.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING at the
Re-appearance of BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Brilliant Drury Lane Melodrama,
The Best of Friends.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
C. SIMONSENS, Manager.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING,
A.KI3DRBW 3YdZA-CK,
and HIS OWN COMPLETE COMPANY of PLAYERS in
THE WAY TO KENMARE,
FOR. THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALASIA.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES,
WEDNESDAYS.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), MAY 11, TO-MORROW
NIGHT (FRIDAY), MAY 12, the Celebrated
Young Tragedienne,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE,
IK
CAMILLE.
SATURDAY, MAY 13, SUNDAY (for 6 Nights Only)
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
Brown Hill Extended, Kalgoorlie, with a sub-
stantial cash balance, looks like having- another run The
rich ore shoot, which, during 1903, provided 13,000 tons
of ore for 42,000 oz., worth about £160,000, and was
thought to have petered out, is not dead yet. A rise at
200 feet, put up on a hint from Roberts, of Associated
Northern, is going up in rich ore, and it looks as if a fresh
make has been found. Should this prove extensive co
will be'in a position to sink a new shaft on Eastern lode
without calling on shareholders for cash.
* * * *
Cosmopolitan, Kookynie ( W. A. ), is showing
some improvement. Hitherto 9 and 10 levels have been
practically worthless, with, at places, a mere stringer of
no value. In putting up a rise at No. 9,716 ft. south, ore
3ft. to4ft„ wide, running up to 20dwt., is showing. At
No. 10, after driving through a blank, ore sft. wide worth
6dwt. has been met 407 ft. from crosscut. As Cosmopoli-
tan mine costs are now only 21s. 9d., 6dwt. leaves a
margin. Mine has probably seen its best days, but, as co.
holds 455 acres, intersected by Scotsman, Welshman and
Altona lines, in addition to Englishman (on which all
work has hitherto been concentrated) it has possibilities.
Altona reef, worked by tributors at shallow depths, has
produced a lot of gold.
* * » »
Norseman Gold Mines (W.A.) may be taken
over by 8., M. and Co. W. J. Loring is inspecting, and,
if satisfied, will take control. As Loring is contented with
low returns, he may try if he can make concern pay. Co.,
during 1898 and ’99, treated about 36,000 tons for 20,'0000z.,
worth £74,000, and barely came out square, so venture
doesn’t look very promising. There were then estimated
to be 30,000 tons of lower-grade ore in sight—too low, in
fact, to pay. But costs under Loring will be much less
than the old 745. a ton. Co. owns 20-head mill and
cyanide plant, but whole caboose has been practically
hung for the past four years.
•» * » «
Mills United, Charters Towers (N. Q.), for half-
year treated 5151 tons for 37190 z., worth £12,866 ; con-
centrates 163 tons, £1538 ; residues 4997 tons, £3201.
Average per ton, £3 Bs. 4d. Preceding term averaged
£2 ss. sd. for 3375 tons. Very little scoping has been
done lately. Stone is coming from development work—
of which there isn’t much done in Towers mines ; more
credit therefore to the Mills. No. 8 East has been driven
263 feet from the crosscut on 4ft. of “fair mineral
stone.” No. 7 East for 194 feet shows 3ft. 6in. of “heavy
mineral stone.” Two rises have connected 7 and S, with
3ft. and 4ft. of stone showing. No. 10 has followed a
formation for 220 ft., and has 150 ft. to go to reach the
dyke or slide, beyond which the stone is supposed to be ;
and Nos. 7 and 8 can be driven 420 and 380 feet respec-
tively before reaching the boundary. Investors outside
can form no idea what “fair mineral stone” means.
Recently a crushing on the Towers of 30 tons gave 4oz.
gold. Was that “fair stone”? Why don’t Towers
directors give assays and tonnage when they are
handling a decent property ? Mills’ half - year
commenced with a credit of £3046, which has
been increased by £6586. Costs, excluding development,
run to £2 4s. lOd. Co. crushes at the D.D. Block
and Wyndham mill, and is connected by rail. Credit in
hand will hardly meet costs of new machinery, to
replace the old compressor and boilers. Amalgamation
with D.D. Consolidated, to work the streets, will be,
when fixed up, a good thing for Mills. Consolidated will
give 100,000 paid-up, and allow Mills to nominate two
directors and a chairman out of a board of five. Ground
is too far away to be worked profitably by Mills, and the
Consolidated is desperate, with three and four feet of
etone in sight in its top levels.
* * * •
Day Dawn School Reserve, Charters Towers,
has put up a record that will be hard to beat. Co. has
been in existence about 18 years. Has enjoyed 11 years
and 2 months’ exemption, and now applies and get 3
another six months ! Stated that £40,000 has been spent
on the lease. Well, there’s mighty little to show for it.
* * * *
The old Burra copper mine (S. A.), owned the last
iew years by a co. which hasn’t lived up to expectations,
has been put under offer to J. Bull. There is supposed to
be about 10,000 tons of ore available for concentration, but
whether there is a pipe of ore below the old workings
(this has been the almost deserted village’s chief argument
for 25 years) would cost more money to find out than the
present co. cares about risking. The unwatering of the
old workings alone is a big job. If Bull doesn’t bite, a
small concentrating plant will go up.
* * -
If a wealthy London syndicate owned the
Anakie (Q.) gem field it is likely the place would boom.
A medium of popularising the pretty yellow sapphires,
and the other stones, is wanted. There is an improved
commercial value for zircons, but, in view of their beauty,
they ought to be higher. The Q. Govt. Geologist, Mr.
Dunstan, has some specimens of the deep hyacinths,
which, after cutting, weigh 10 carats, worth £1 per carat
in London. He has some deep-blue sapphires, some
lighter, some green, yellow and orange of great brilliance.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Alfred Dampier, ifc is said, has just had a paralytic
stroke.
A newspaper sub-editor divides theatrical agents into
two classes : those who give you a good cigar and a bad
par, and R. S. Smythe, who gives you a good par and no
cigar.
The concert to be given to Miss Rita Hope, the young
Melbourne pianist, is fixed for May 30th, at Melbourne
Town Hall, and a strong committee is conspiring to make
the affair a success.
An old pay-sheet of the bygone Queen’s Theatre,
London, came to light recently. It was for Xmas week,
1867, and it records the salaries then paid to a number of
actors and actresses whose names commanded big money
thereafter. The star member of the co. in 1867 vias J. L.
Toole. He drew £lO 16s. Bd. a week for grimacing in a
one-act farce, “ The Birthplace of Podgers.” John Ryder,
the old Shakspearian actor (and stage-manager), got £7
10s., whilst Ellen Terry and Irving, as Katherine and
Petruchio, received £5 and £2 13s. 4d. respectively, and
thought themselves lucky. Charles Wvndhain’s wage
was £3. Lionel Brough existed on £2 a week, and Miss
Heath (the wife of Wilson Barrett) played a small part at
the rate of three-and-fourpence a night. Actors then
learned their trade in the hard school of impecuniosity ;
they couldn’t afford to take holidays, “ cut a dash,” or
overfeed themselves. With no social functions to waste
their time at, they had a constant incentive to graft in
the hope of climbing to a summit of popularity, where
£lO a week awaited them.
The stage-manager at a big metropolitan theatre in the
Commonwealth was having a hot argument with the hus-
band of the star on a point of order. “ Anyhow,” said the
official person, “ I am stage-manager, and I’ll have the
thing done as I dash well please.” “ Oh, very well,” cried
the husband of the star in impotent wrath, “ but, look
here, dud-dud-don’t you ever call me Jimmie again ! ”
Violinist Hugo Heerman brings with him to Australia
Paganini’s favorite instrument—a Strad., bearing date
1640. Paganini’s son sold it to a Paris dealer in 1840, who
passed it on to a London ditto, from whom Heerman got it.
The heavy villain of a nomadic company, acting in
tragic drama in a Gippsland agricultural centre, made so
violent a dash at the heroine that he over-reached him-
self, and shot head-first into the orchestra, so severely
injuring it that it had to be removed in a waggonette in
search of medical attentions. The orchestra was found to
have sustained a broken collarbone. Australian manage-
ments may yet find it advisable to protect the band with
a hand rail.
A Melbourne touriste has been seeing the Divine Sarah
in “Angelo,” and comments : “In ‘ Angelo ’ Bernhardt
pitches her work as high and true and intensely human
as ever she did. She seems the same magnetic, incom-
parable Sarah—in look, in gesture, in figure, in her gamut
of passion pourtrayals. Only in the voice has she altered.
That is showing the only signs of decay. It sounds, at
last, old.”
The hero of Bernard Shaw’s latest comedy is an
amorous poet whose verses are "only fit for a married
woman to read.”
Miss Emma Temple and her sister, Miss Bessie Major,
have parts in “ Beauty and The Barge.” Miss Major was
a member of the original Brough-Boucicault Co., but had
not been seen in Australia for 10 years, or more, prior to
her recent re-appearance.
Peter Dawson, the young Adelaide basso, expects to
tour Australia with Albani next year.
The. world’s tenor of to-day is said to be Caruso. His
voice is of the most pleasing" quality, with all the fresh-
ness and purity of youth, but he has enormous power,
and his voice rings like a trumpet in the climaxes so ttat
he is easily heard above an entire chorus. Caruso was a
poor lad—his mother a street herb-seller in Milan—and
he had a sad, sour time in his early musical struggles.
Mrs. Clement Scott recently appeared at Bow-street to
answer a summons calling- on her to deliver up the books
and papers in connection with the fund for needy players.
This charity was established in 1881 by Admiral W. Carr
Glyn in memory of Adelaide Neilson—the greatest Juliet
of modern times—and the trustees appointed were Henry
Irving, Clement Scott, and J. L. Toole. The two players
never bothered to interfere ; Scott had all his own way.
Mrs. Clement Scott wished to fill his place when he died,
but Bancroft was appointed to the vacancy. The lady
then refused to give up any of the documents in her
hands. She was ordered to do so.
Mr. Joseph Carruthers seems to have got
off the fence with a declaration that he is “ heart
and soul with Mr. Reid ” in his anti-Socialism
campaign. Has Joseph, then, secured enough of
the Waddellites to make it certain that he will
not want the .Labor party ?
The Russians still adhere to the Julian
calendar. Their time is old style, and they are
12 days behind our dates; our “May Day” is
thus about a fortnight in advance of theirs. But
this did not prevent the daily press cable man
sending along his account of the horrible May
Day massacres last week.
The proposed gorgeous Queen Victoria
memorial in London probably won’t eventuate.
Original building design is to be modified con-
siderably, and the grand “processional road”
leading thereto, with its group statuary repre-
senting the units of the empire, is to be “in-
definitely postponed.” Some of the lavish pro-
mises, given what time the promisers were being
lavishly banqueted in London, evidently have
been mislaid.
The Morganite candidate running for the
vacant Mitchell seat in Bananaland is regarded as
secretly sympathetic with the Opposition, who
declined to put up a man. By acting in this
apparently quiescent way Pliilp and his party
hoped (1) that the fight between the Morganite
and the Laborite might rupture the Coalition
ranks, and (2) that the Morganite, known to have
a sneaking regard for Toryism, would succeed.
The plain duty_ of the Mitchell democracy is to
add another unit to direct Labor.
News from London relates that Inez Bensusan is play-
ing Yo-San in “The Darling of the Gods” provincial
company run by Ben Greet. Warburton, who did such
excellent work as Zaekery in the Australian production,
has just accepted the same part in the English per-
formance.


MILLER’S FEATHERS.
The Best that Money can Buy.
HOW WI DO IT.
Every line we sell is dressed from the raw
material at our own factory, direct from the
Famous Farms of South Africa. All middlemen’s
profits are saved, and that means a lot to you.
THIB SPECIAL OFFER to advortioo
our
sfd
Qstrich Tips
3 for 10/-
Black, White, Cream,
Natural,
er Blaok
Tipped
with
White
10ln.), Post
Free to any Address.
sfd
f
New Illustrate®
Booklets,
Post Free.
These Feathers cannot be bought for twice the money in any other house.
They wear for years, and re-curl again equal to new. Send Postal Notes. New
Zealand customers send money order payable to John Miller.
CHOICE NATURAL BOAS, 30/- (length 1} yards). No article lends a greater
air of distinction and completeness to a lady’s toilet than one of Miller s Exquisite
Boas. They are unlike any other, because they are fuller than the cheap imitations
sold in drapers’ shops.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP, O^
P., Corner Strand
STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swaneton Streets, MELBOURNE.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
ƒ
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? if so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
m
FOREIGN AND OLD
AUSTRALIAN POSTAGE
STAMPS FOR SALE.
Selections on Approval against
References.
Sets and Packets of Stamps, Albums,
&c., Price Lists Post Free
WALTER A. HULL, <.
No. lO Strand, Sydney
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
Director of Institutes.
WHAT '2 SPECIALIST?
w
EBSTER defines the word Specialist to mean “One who devotes himself to a Speciality.” The word
“ Speciality ” he defines as follows : “ That which is the special or particular calling of any person or business ;
that for which a person is distinguished or which he makes the object of special attention. .
According to these definitions, the followers of particular pursuits become Specialists. In the early centuries
there were no Specialists; as the world advanced they became a necessity. The world discovered that the “ jack-of-all-
tiadeS Tr rde S have e nowteTOme individualised, knowledge centred in various pursuits, the twentieth century gives us five
thousand Specialities of occupation. Each man attends to his own business, and becomes perfect through following out bis
The Public recognises quickly the greatest good for the greatest number, especially in Medicine and Surgery, where
immediate good results to ills of Humanity. Medical science was once practically at a standstill, proved by terrible
epidemics that swept across the world now subservient to scientific method. To-day we have the Specialist in Diseases of
Men, who, naturally apt in studying certain forms of premature decay, combines with his aptitude that experience which he
has gained in long years of active practice.
The Freeman & Wallace Physicians & Surgeons
have
CO
'e a system of general disbursement of their knowledge of treatment and cure of SPECIAL SPECIFIC AND
NTAGIOUS AILMENTS OF MEN. They boldly tell the world what their success has been, what they do, and how
TWO SPECIALISTS SplciAL.m E ES. ,N T
The name of the THE FREEMAN & WALLACE INSTI-
TUTE, is associated with rapid and effective treatment,
applied to the Cure of Men suffering from SERIOUS BLOOD
DISORDERS, RUPTURE, BLADDER AILMENTS, CYSTITIS,
KIDNEY DISEASES, PROSTATIC GLAND AILMENTS,
URINARY IMPERFECTIONS, STOMACH AILMENTS or
any class of complaint affecting the NERVOUS SYSTEM.
The Specialists are as familiar Medically to the Australian
public mind as the names of reigning Kings to the universe.
The secret of their distinguished careers lies in the fact they
cure where others fail.
A STAFF OF FOUR LEGALLY-QUALIFIED PHYSICIANS.
The Managing Director and founder of the Institute, Sydney
and Melbourne, controls a Qualified Staff of Four Expert
Physicians and Surgeons, who, through constant practice,
know their disease as a child knows its alphabet. They do not
pretend to treat all diseases ; they are Specialists only in Men’s
Disorders. The Physician-in-Chief, Dii. Richard Wallace, is
registered by Australian, English and American Medical
Boards. He makes no charge for friendly talks or advice by letter
£lOO,OOO POUNDS.
No less a sum than £lOO,OOO has been expended in per-
fecting THE FREEMAN & WALLACE INSTITUTE. New
inventions and methods of treatment of Diseases, discovered
by leading Scientists, are secured after their benefits have been
recognised by Physicians attached to leading continental hos-
pitals. All modern appliances for the successful application
of Electricity to combat disease are installed in the Institute.
The Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical
Institute is, therefore, up-to-date. Its Physicians practice
modern methods of treatment. Hence the success of the
Institute in permanent cures it has effected.
A GOOD BOOK.— It tells every Weak Man how to
get strong. It explains the reason for the Early Decay of
Manhood’s Strength and how Perfect Vigor is restored. It tells
how we have cured thousands of weak men in Australia during
the past five years. It is a beautifully illustrated 600-page
book. To any man who suffers from an early breaking down
of the Vital Powers it is invaluable. “ CLINICAL EXPERI-
ENCES,” 31 chapters, is the Book for Sick Men. It is com-
mended by hundreds of Australian newspapers. It costs
you Nothing. Send for it to-day. Post Free. No Charge.
f
The Freeman & Wallace Institute, Sydney
WE COURT THE CLOSEST INVESTIGATION.
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind that our treatment will
not cure you, it is a duty you owe to yourself to write to some of the
references we publish from week to week, and send an addressed envelope
for reply. Ask any of the attestants who have given these testimonies to
us if they think we can benefit you. We court the closest investigation.
Our Parcel Post System is a blessing to all sick men living in centres far
from medical men and aid. Thousands of men would now be in their
graves had we not so reached and treated them.
*******
FACTS THAT DEFY ARGUMENT.
We are treating thousands of cases annually, and is it not reasonable
to suppose that we understand such cases better than those who are
treating only a few hundred ? Practice makes perfect in any line, and it
is none the less true in the treatment of disease. You get the benefit
of Experience when you place your case in our hands. Do not despair.
Order your treatment at once, and let us add your name to our long list
of cures.
file Freeman ij Wallace
Electro=Medical &
Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., SYDNEY,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute. AND AT MELBOURNE.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., Physieian-in-Chief.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Principal Department of Women.
they do it. The Medical Practitioners constituting
their Staff are authorities on Chronic Ailments,
whose success for a series of years is attested by facts
incontrovertible.
By reason of the great cures effected and advertised,
the names of FREEMAN and WALLACE, as
Medical Specialists, are recognised and respected
throughout Australia. They do not profess to treat
all Diseases, but they cure those they treat. Any
man desirous of consulting their Medical Staff may
do so, and it will cost him the price of one letter or
post-card only. Correspondence will be replied to
punctually, but applicants for Professional opinion
upon SPECIAL DISEASES are requested to men-
tion the advertising source through which they apply.
Dr RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.
Physician-in-Chief.
5
ANTI-
BILIOUS
PILLS.
t. x (Jo not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
A FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family. M*
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says:—“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’*’
ƒ
For WANTS. INVALIDS, and t&o ABED.
BBNOZR’S FOOD IS BOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EYERYWH3BE,
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
The Priest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A priest am I. I may not know
The clasp of arms like driven snow,
Or in the taper’s sacred glow
Dream aught of maiden’s eyes.
And I must fast and grieve and pray,
And let Life’s laughter slip away —
The Church is great and wise.
The Church is great and good and cold
The very altar gleams with gold,
And scarlet upon scarlet fold
Droop oloths —embroidered, gilt—
Against the richly carvenwood.
The crimson—Ah ! It looks like blood
Down-dripping and fresh spilt.
A penitent has crossed the nave,
Her voice sounds low as from a grave,
And I must listen, counsel, save
Her soul from earthly ill.
She brings a scent of mignonette,
Accursed to me who would forget
The sunlight on the hill.
God made gold hair, but not for me ;
God made blue eyes I must net see ;
God made the curves of witchery
For other eyes’ delight.
But not for mine eyes spreads the feast.
I look on stone. lam the priest
And wedded to the Bight.
God gave me passions, human, strong;
God made her life one luring song,
And mine the music. Was He wrong ?
Ah ! scent of mignonette.
Ah ! just once more to hear her sing,
To feel her warm arms clasp and cling,
And then—to quite forget !
0.
M. FORREST.


Australian Mutual Provident
EgTmisHEi, 1849. p or Llfe Aggurance on the Mutt
Society
Principle.
has money to lend
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on tho security of Government
es, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
oprTt ! 'nf V tv!o DeC< * con tai° s a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege ot repaying up to 20 per
" otl sl e P-y—t of any
n !„ 4W>frt . o rp‘ IV: T wunouc nonce or paynit.. w «•„*
tjw. S . aT. 1 ,„ f „^ S r' l >2 T ss*°!?.?L Es ?' ’Chairman i„The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
n. R. J. Brack, M.L.O. ;F. E. YVinchcombb, Esq., M.li A.
a S ±l S r^ 0r J - T - V T a . lkk ' 1 : J^,ES Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. rv. o. olac
» ® n /?™T%£ latrer and Acluar .v— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F S S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’ ’ -
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Wire Cloth Weavers.
mmgmmm*
mmammmu
OSQHIK
«■■■*<*■■
fUlailirl
■ 243*!18*
film
■•»■*■£ X**|
•aaaaav
*«
<iMia»u! I
mmiiW |
‘jSjljjjjiljSjjl
Makers of all Kinds ♦.
Co Steel, Iron, of Wove Wire
Galvanised, Copper, and Brass.
WB HAKE A SPECIALITY OP
HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
We have the BEST MEN and
LA TEST MACHINER Y.
We would be pleased to get in communlcetlea with
those interested in Wire Cloth.
WE WILL BE FOUND QUICK, CIVIL, OBLIGING AND CHEAP.
f
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 fp 411 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
factories : 533 A Georgs St., and A!b:en Lens.
P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall and Post Office,
and within a stone’s throw of all the Theatres.
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3e. per day; Double Room, 6e. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2.30; DINNER, 5.30 till 7.30
Special Feature-RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS-—The Convenient and Modern System of* paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
MOTEL ENTRANCE = MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
Za Bulk Mid Bottle are universally acknowledged
*l*o DEFY COMiPETIXIOU.
WINES
I Tit Btsl Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS, Jw.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY,
New Zealand Loan « Mercantile Agency Co.
SYD2VTE3 Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended t© by our staff of highly effioient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
ST9 1782 fo
PHOENIX
Assurance Company of London
Assurances effected on Buildings and Contents; also on WOOLSHEDS, HOMESTEADS, and
other Station Properties, at LOWEST RATES.
NOTE,-LoBces Arising; from Bush Fires, Lightning, and
Explosion of Coal Gas are covered by this Company.
Annual Income, £1,500,090. Reserve Fund and Security, £4,000,000.
Has issued the LARGEST E POLICY ever written, viz., for
Premium, .£33,821.
KT Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, allowed off all Premiums.
117 PITT SL, SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers)*
WILLIAM N, FARMER,
Manama.
Don’t
Break
Down!
WHY lost Health and Strength? Why allow your
trouble to become Chronic ? You don’t want to
be always ailing, and your existence to become a burden
to others ! Perhaps there are those dependent on your
labor and exertions for a livelihood, consequently you
cannot afford to “throw up the sponge,” and exclaim
“ I’m done ! I’ve tried my level best to get relief from
almost every so-called remedy, but without success, s»
I’m sick of it all.” Such people we meet every day,
who, in sheer despair, come to us as a last resource!
Why? Because in Nine Hundred and Ninety-Nine
Cases out of a Thousand, Electricity is never recom-
mended t® them. It is only when one person meets
another who has been cured by our treatment that he or
she realises its value, and thus we gain friendship by our
wonderful cures. We have the remedy that is as Natural
for strengthening the body and revitalising the entire
, system as rain is necessary for a parched field. Eminent
Doctors to-day are using our Belt in their practice with
marvellous results (see reports which vve forward on
application). Recently the great Congresses of Science
at St. Louis gave a mighty impetus to the study of Elec-
tricity, and it has been proven that the human body is
an Electro-Chemic Battery, acting to known Electrical
laws. It contains many Electrical circuits, major and
minor, many nerve wires, many poles, many relays; in
fact, the life principal itself is everywhere Electrical in
its action. The blood is the exciting fluid of the human
battery, and the nerves are the connecting wires, and
sight is known to be Electro-Magnetic. These facts were
known to Dr. McLaughlin, and for years he has experimented and studied the best means
of giving that Natural Electricity back to the system that has been wasted by disease, with
the result that the most perfect and wonderful appliance for the restoration of Health,
Strength, and Vitality is now within the reach of every sufferer.
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIG BELT
Has Cured Thousands ! It is a Natural Cure,
and, as such, must cure you. There is only
one way to avoid a break-down. First stop
the leak or contributive cause ; next, repair
the damage that has been done by recharging
the system with Electricity... The greater the
loss of Electricity from your body, the greater
the Weakness, Pain, Disease, and Nervous
Derangements of the System. It is obvious
then that the Electric Power in the body
must be replaced to be Healthy and Strong.
Our Belt strengthens every organ. The cura-
tive benefit is constitutional, and there are no
cases of Weakness, Nervousness, Lassitude,
Loss of Vitality, Dyspepsia, Constipation,
Indigestion, Stomach, Liver, and Kidney
Troubles, Gout, Weak Back, Sciatica, Lum-
bago, Rheumatism, Varicocele, Rupture,
Functional Decline, Urinary Troubles, &c.,
that it will not cure.
wr
INS"
IT IS THE GRANDEST
INVENTION OF THE AGE
FOR WEAK PEOPLE.
Mr. ALBERT A. G. HUDSON, Wood v ills,
BAAN BAA, N.S.W., writes:
Dear Sirs,—l am very pleased to state that my
back is thoroughly cured, and never gives me the
least trouble now. I had only worn the Belt for
about eight weeks when I felt a decided change. I
cannot speak too highly of your wonderful Belt.
Again thanking you, and wishing you every success.
ƒ
Urinary Ai'ments.
A great many patients have come
to us suffering from complica-
tions arising- from mistreatment
of the urinary organs. Don’t
trifle with these disorders—per-
manent injury will result. Our
Electric Treatment .is the safest
and best. If troubled, consult
us. No charge is made for
advice. If you cannot call,
send for one of our Books.
SPECIAL TO MEN !
We earnestly advise all discour-
aged sufferers, and those desiring
to be cured of any of the diseases
that are treated hy Electricity
with such grand results, to
come and consult us, or write
us regarding their condition.
It costs you absolutely nothing
to obtain all information and
advice, so call or write at
once.
Functional Decline.
Electricity, tor the cure of
this derangement, is the most
rational, direct, and absolutely
the most certain, whereby the
Functional Activity of the parts
can be restored to normal.
We can send you the names
of a great many people who
have been cured of this wasting
disease by our treatment.
Mr. J. TINKLER, c/o R. Hunter, Burnewang Park, Elmore, Vic.,
writes
Dear Sir,—l have worn your Belt for the last thirty days, and am pleased to inform you
that it has worked wonders. I can sleep better, eat better, and, in fact, I never felt better in
my life. I can now do a good day’s work without getting knocked up. Your developer has
done all you said it would, and I feel like a new man.
Free Book.
Our Book contains every in-
formation about this Great
Remedy. It will be sent you
on receipt of Coupon.
Free Advice
will be given to every sufferer
who can call any week-day
between the hours of 9 a.m.
and 8.30 p.m.
THE
Or. HlcCaugblin
CO.,
180 W Market St., Sydney.
Also at—
-54 Willis-st., Wellington, N.Z.
167 E Swanston-st., Melbourne.
101 William-st., Perth.
William Charles Crawford.
CUT OUT COUPON,
SIGN FULLY, AND POST TO US.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
Dear Sirs,—Please send me your Grand, Illus-
trated 96-page Book, describing your method of
treatment by Electricity. I understand that you will
send it Closely Sealed, FREE, and POSTAGE
PAID on receipt of this COUPON.
Name
Address
The “GOERZ” Binocular
FIELD GLASS.
sf
The FINEST CLASS IN THE WORLD.
Good for any Distance up to 20 Miles.
SUITABLE FOR TOURIST, RACES,
MARINE, MILITARY, and all uses, and
absolutely invaluable to the Squatter.
Price £8 10s.
Size No. 9—that is, magnifying nine times as
much as the ordinary Field-Glass.
In Solid Loather Case, with Name
or Initials stamped In Gold.
X LIMITED NUMBER ONLY AT THIS PRICE.
OSBORN & JERDAN,
“My Opticians
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY


No. F6l37.—Very handsome “Louis” design
Presentation Tea and Coffee Service ; Best Silver
Plated, on Hard Nickel Silver, £l6 10s.
ƒsf
S TRftNP CORNER,GEORGE™
EEESI
VOU can buy from us just as safely and satisfactorily by letter as if you came in person. You can
> return at once any article that is not to your liking, and we will exchange it or ref un d the pur-
chase money. We post everything free on receipt of remittance. The following five Illustrated
Catalogues are Free ; write for whichever you are interested in Our General Catalogue, ( Our
Watch Catalogue,” “ Greenstone Jewellery,” ‘ Gifts for Babies, Presentation Goods.
dfg
No. 82384. —Cut t- 18 - 38
Butter Dish, Silver-
plated Sta , and
Knife, lls g d-
No. E3792. —Very handsome design, full size, Silver-
plated Tea and* Coffee Service. Just the thing for
Presentations. £9 10s.
No. G3llS.—Out
Glass and Solid
Silver Smelling'
Salts Bottle, 9/6.
No. G6OOO. —Silver-Plated and Real Pearl Handle Crumb Scoop, 32* 6d.
With Ivory Handle, 30s. With Ivoride Handle, 17s 6d and 18s 6d.
No. G 3171.
Silver - plated
Tea Caddy
Spocn, 4s 6d.
No. F 9689. —Our Special Field-Glass, of good quality,
complete in Leather Case with Strap and Cord.
Price only 21s.
o Gl9(>9. —The Most Popular 1 lower \ ase of To-Day
Best Plate, Weighted Bases, height 6Jin. ts Od,
6Jin. 9s (id, 7sin. 10s 6d.
No. F 4816. —Very Smart full-s'ze Tea and Coffee
Service. Good Quality Plate on Nickel Silver,
£8 10s.
No. G472l.—Silver-Plated Sauce Boat on Tray. A
Suitable Wedding- Gift this. Price ISs 6d.
No. 01456.—The Patent Orange Peeler,
Sih er-plated. Takes the pe 1 oS
quickly and cleanly, Is 6d.
No. G4591. —Solid Silver Satin-lined
Jewel Case and Pin Cushion combined,
No E 6511. —Very Handsomely-Mounted Oomb,
Hall-Marked Silver, 11s 6d.
No. F 1340. Best Massive
English Out-Glass and Silver-
plated Claret Jug, £2 ss.
Solid Silver Handker-
chief Bags. These are
now quite the correct
thing. An Assortment
of styles, £3 12s 6d,
£3 15s, £3 17s 6d,
£4 10s.
27s 6d.
m
UlUlflUlUi
No. Gl24S.— Polished English Oak Salad Bowl
with Servers : China-lined, Mounts and Servers
Silver-Plated, 30s.
N*. G 3404.— Satin-lined Jewel Case or Trinket Box,
4in. long, Best Silver-plate, 14s 6d.
No. E 2359. —A Novel Wedding Gift. A Silver-plated
and Embossed Sugar Basin and Cream Jug
on n, Trav. £1 10s.
No. E7l22.—Toilet Set, comprising Powder Jar, Hair and
Safety Pin Boxes, and Heart Shape Jewel Box,
on Tray, Strongly Silver-plated, £3.
No. F 2875. —The Apple Jam Dish.
Clear glass, Silver-plated Stand,
Cover and Spoon, 11s 6d.
HEALTH
APPETITE
DIGESTION
STRENGTH
ENERGY
VITALITY
d
Disease-Breeding
Uric Acid.
Uric acid is the predisposing cause of Gout,
Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, and Mental De-
spondency.
Uric acid checks the efficient filtering power of
the kidneys, and leads to the development of
Gravel, Stone, Lumbago, Diabetes, and Bright s
Disease.
Uric acid, again, is one of the chief causes of
constipation, that arch thief of health.
In short, excessive uric acid is a well-known
blood poisoner, which infects brain, nerves, tissue,
and muscle.
The grandest remedy in the world for kidney
trouble and all uric acid diseases is undoubtedly
Kutnow’s Powder.
The leading physicians of London, Paris, Berlin
and New York have tested the power of Kutnow’s
Powder as a natural solvent and elimiuant of uric
acid.
The result has been a veritable triumph for
Kutnow’s Powder. They not only prescribe it in
their private and hospital practice, but use it
personally as a guard against serious disease.
PROF. F. H. GRIFFIN, M.D., wrote: “I
only wish every soul in the world used Kutnow’s
Powder. They would experience great benefit.”
Kutnow's Powder is a most delightful, refresh-
ing health draught, nerve-bracing and exhilarating.
It is absolutely free from sugar, pleasant to the
taste, and always gives entire satisfaction. A
nation’s wealth is a nation’s health. Those who
value health take Kutnow’s Powder.
The Loss of Nerve-Power and
the Remedy.
The nerves are connected with all the organs and tissues of the body.
When, therefore, the stomach, liver, kidneys, bowels, and gall bladder are
disordered or diseased the nerves consequently are bound to suffer, and the
brilliant, energetic, shrewd and busy man gradually wanes in mental and
physical capacity. The dyspeptic individual is invariably of an irritable or
nervous nature; his digestive organs being impaired are gradually depriving
him of nerve-power and laying up a source of trouble and life of misery for
the future. Little do people think when they complain of nervous headache,
neuralgia, restlessness, insomnia, that the trouble arises in the stomach. The
question is how to regain this nerve-power. The answer is by using the one
remedy which is now endorsed and prescribed by all the leading physicians
in both hemispheres, and also most highly praised in the Lritish Medical
Press ; and this remedy is Kutnow’s Powder.
IMPORTANT CAUTION !
AH respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder, but there are others who,
for the sake of a little extra profit, will attempt to foist upon you some cheap
imitation of their own. It is well known that these cheap concoctions are
highly dangerous, and in the case of delicate, sensitive persons, capable of
inflicting permanent injury. Kutnow’s Powder is pure, painless, palatable,
free from sugar, and absolutely harmless. See that the fac-simile signature,
“ S Kutnow and Co., Ld.” and the registered trade mark. Hirschensprung,
or Deer Leap,” are on the carton in which the bottle is packed, and also on
the label on the bottle. This signature and trade mark will alone insure your
obtaining the
Genuine KUTNOW’S POWDER.
PROPRIETORS :
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Famngdon Road, London, E.C.
Proprietors hi U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Braodway, New York.
Frequent Reports of
Success.
A LEADING PRACTITIONER WRITES :
“Columbia Hospital, Chicago, June 10th, 1904.
“ It gives me pleasure to state with what satis-
faction I have used Kutnow’s Powder in my
practice. I find that it is a gentle laxative and
gastric sedative, which overcomes the most dis-
tressing symptoms so often remembered by patients
with so much dread. It soon controls the gastric
distress, keeps up gentle peristalsis and laxity, the
importance of which, surgeons appreciate.
“A. A. O’NE[LL,;M.D.”
KIDNEY TROUBLE RELIEVED.
“ 5, Sarsden Buildings, Wigmore St., W.
“ June 17th, 1904.
“For some months past I have suffered very
considerably with my kidneys, and at times the
swellings have been very bad, but I am thankful
to say Kutnow’s Powder has always relieved me,
and by its regular use keeps me in perfect health,
thus justifying every word in your advertisement.
“E. G. STEPHENS.”
REY. CHARLES RHODES WRITES:
“ Florence Cottage, Old Fletton,
“ Peterborough, May 31st, 1904.
“ After a more extended use of Kutnow’s
Powder, I can testify to its efficacy. I have been
taking it for about a month for sluggish liver, and
it has done me more good than anything else I
have tried. It is the least expensive in the end.
“ (Rev.) CHARLES RHOKES.”
PERMANENTLY ERADICATES CONSTIPATION.
[4-10


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
NOW OPEN
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
PRINCE OP WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W,, June 5
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tas., June 5 ... ... ...
GRANB NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vie., July 1 ...
BROKEN HILL CUP, Broken Hill, N.S.W., July 19 ... ...
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Sfrtmn Trav Will K. ow ,
s ' and 4t,m on each lOs. Ticket . Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances. '°* **°
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the f f L +
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for s!3 years nlst P‘. late , G ® ORGR A » A MS to carry on th.
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in “ 7 PAR ° ELS
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
11l
m
mm
ď
g
THE WAY 1 DO MV
•■-p*
Y Ben tTie Pvt '
time to remember that the boys ot
myself want some New Clothing |
just sitdowo comfortably and write 10
LINCOLN,
STUART « Col
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE (/
for their book “The Philosophy of Dress’’ and
some patterns of cloths, of which they send
SL a ,£ re l‘ T by return of P°*‘. I ‘ben
read the book and see what will suit me
Having made' my selection, and come to a
decision, I send them the order on their
special Measure Form, when finished, the goods
? r c S j to , ? le and 1116 Ca rnage is prepaid.
I find by this plan that I buy just as well aa
U I was in town, and am splendidly fitted
and suited in every way.
1 To oblige the Firm / always UU them
Which paper I saw their advertisement in,
Write to-day ’
for
Patterns
and the Book
Hearne’s Bronchitis
TIRtIHI FAMOUS REMEDY
FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS TTTP. T.ADnrGT catv /vei ' “
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANT CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Soreness
forting
never
and a Complete Cure is certain.
Cougha
properly treated with this medicine.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning",” a d dls!°fs generally sufficient
BE'WA.RE OP COUGHS ?
REMEMBER THAT IYERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
Terrible cough caused by measles.
Improved immediately and quickly cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send me by return pest
one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, for which please
find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough, caused by
measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced to have
a small quantity of your Bronchitis Cure, took one dose,
and improved immediately. I like to always have some
on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of
what it has done for me, and you are at liberty to make
use of what I have written. This is net the first time it
has done me good.—Yours truly,
O. R. HOOK,
** Hilslea,” Clyde, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
Two children in one family cured two years
ago by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
In the best of health now.
Have never had a sign of the Asthma since.
Mr. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—lt is with pleasure I can say that my two
children, whom you treated two years ago with your
medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best of health.
They have never had a sign of the asthma since. I always
keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure in the
house now.
) L. EDGELL,
Imeaton, Victoria.
BEONCHim
A sufferer 73 years of age.
Thoroughly cured by two bottles of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Immediate Relief—Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—l have been very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate
relief, and after taking the second bottle I am thoroughly
cured. Its effect on me has been most wonderful. I am
73 years of age. I trust you will make use of this state-
ment by publishing it for the benefit of humanity
generally,—Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TREZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
Dry hacking cough for twelve months.
Believed at once and completely cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Other treatment took ue effect.
Mr. W. O. HEARNE.
Dear Sir,—For twelve month* or moro I had a dry
hacking cough on my chest, that used to trouble me
terribly at night time. I was told it was a touch of Bron-
chitis. I tried different sorts of medioine, which took no
effect, so I tried your Bronchitis Cure, which I have much
pleasure in informing you relieved me at once. It has
completely cured my cough. lam sure anyone can
depend on your medicine for a thorough and immediate
cure.—l remain, yours truly,
DAVID MATTHEWS,
Modewarre, Victoria.
INFLUENZA and BRONCHITIS, j
Tea years suffering with a terrible cough,
and wasting away.
Completely cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Curo.
Mr. W. 6. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of
Influenza and Bronchitis, and for ten years was suffering
with a terrible cough, and was wasting away. I had
medical attendance, and tried various medicines recom-
mended, but without success until, on my daughter’s
recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, with
the result that it completely cured me, and I am per-
fectly free from any cough now.
E. ASTALL,
11* Shields-street, Flemington, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
A sufferer for years cured by on* bettle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
No other treatment did any good.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—My daughter, 12 years of age, had
a very bad cough that had been a great trouble to her for
years. 1 tjied every cough remedy I could get, but not
one of them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried
one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never
coughed since she finished it. lam glad to say the effect
has been wonderful. Yours eto.,
J. BATSEN,
Homobush, Sydney, N.S.W.
BRONCHIAL CATARRH.
An •bgtinate case cured by He arm’s
Bronchitis Cure.
After ether treatment had failed.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have a son, 9 years o! ace,
wh® for two years suffered from Chronic Bronchial
Catarrh. I could never leave him away from me a night
°®. n ®ideratien. Everybody just dreaded his being
left to their care. The least dampness of feet, cool sea
breeze after a hot day, or cold blowing wind, would con-
fine him to the house for days. I had medical advice,
and used different patent medicines, but without success,
until I got one small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure,
which has freed him completely from the Catarrh. Since
then he has been out in damp weather to school, and gees
about like any ether child ; in fact, he seems to have lost
a big burden, and is quite well. Will you please accept
my gratitude.—Believe me, yours gratefully,
AMY H. PARTRIDGE,
Kelso Heights, Singleton, N.S.W.
BBONCHITIS.
A South Australian storekeeper testifies
to tho Efficacy of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
A sufferer 70 years old cured by it.
Well and hearty now.
Mr. W. a. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am s storekeeper,
living in this township for the last 29 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing of your valuable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman
is over 78 years of age, an old bushman who has been in
these parts for the last 38 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the medi-
cine from me. He is at my place now, and he says that
this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis for a
number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks for
your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part
of it you like, as it may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly,
M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia,
CONSUMPTION.
Tot ill tt leave Ms bed*
A complete curt.
Mr. W. G. Bearn e.
Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you about the wonderful
cure your medicine has effected in my case. About three
years ago I began to cough. At first the cough was not
severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became very
weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my chest,
and great quantities at phlegm. On several occasions
there was blood in the expectorated matter. I had been
treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to be con.
sumption, and various other treatments had been tried,
but without benefit. It was at this stage that I heard of
your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a course of the
medicine. When it arrived, I was toe ill to leave my bed,
but I commenced taking it at once, and graduallv im-
proved. lam £l&d fc# say that the two lots of medicine
you sent have effected a complete cure, for which accent
my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully, y
_ , . J. BLAIR,
Wes tminst er-bridge Road, S.E., London.
Distressing, suffocating, dry cough for twolvt
years.
Entirely removed by five doses of Heamo’s
BroncMtis Cure.
He ether treatment could ovon oase it.
Sir,—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from most
distressing, suffocating, dry cough, that could not be re-
moved or even eased by any remedy, doctors’ prescrip,
tiens and patent medicines having been tried ; but I am
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and dif.
Acuity of breathing ete., were entirely removed by the
fifth dose »f your Bronchitis Cure.-I remain, sir, vours
most respectfully, ’ ■*
WILLIAM CROCKETT,
Baker’s Swamp P. 0., vi* Dripstone, N.S.W.
A Ito years’ case cured by one small bottle
of Hearno’s Bronchitis Curt.
Mr. W. Q. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
—I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES T. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE —Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s» 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
manoh depot office : ifo, 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562,


You will shake hands
with yourself when you
persuade yourself to try
SUNLIGHT SOAP
for the laundry.
FOR SCOURING POTS AND PANS.
TMfe BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
r
For BOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor 1 Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
-41 Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un«
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— A wincglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with <t
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
d
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Liver Letters.
From Mr. H. W. Crisp, Itodd-street, Dandenong, Vic., 22nd January, 1904. Late of Thorpdale,
Gippsland.
“ For the past ten years I suffered from disease of the liver, experiencing a sense of weight as well
as great pain in the region of the liver, especially in the night and early morning. I had tried various
remedies, but without benefit, when Warner’s Safe Cure was favorably brought to my notice. I
decided to give that medicine a trial, and after taking a few bottles and some Warner’s Safe Pills, I
found great relief. The complaint was speedily checked and the pain ceased. ”
From Mr. Albert Walker, c/o Mr. F. J. Freame, Graham-st., Port Melbourne, Vic., 12th Jan., 1904.
“ For years I was suffering from disease of the liver, that organ having become enlarged, causing
physical prostration and mental depression. I also had severe pains in the back. The slightest touch
or pressure on the liver would cause me the most excruciating pain. I was induced to try Warner’s
Safe Cure, and after taking three bottles of the medicine, my health was quite restored, and I became
strong and vigorous again, I take great pleasure in recommending Warner’s Safe Cure as a sure and
speedy remedy for disease of the liver.”
From Mr. L. H. Howard, 3 Douglas Street, Stanmore, N.S.W., 25th January, 1904.
“I can speak in the highest terms of Warner’s Safe Cure. About five years ago I suffered
severely from liver complaint, in fact, all my digestive organs were seriously out of order. I tried all
kinds of liver pills and various medicines, but only got very slight relief. Eventually I was advised
by my chemist to try Warner’s Safe Cure. This 1 did, with every satisfaction, for after taking four
bottles, I was completely cured, and am now in the best of health.”
From Mr. James Moore, Lion Hotel, Melbourne Street, North Adelaide, S.A., Bth October, 1903.
“I have been suffering from biliousness and indigestion for several years until about two years
ago, when I had a severe bilious fever, which prevented me from working for several weeks and kept
me confined to my bed. The many medicines I tried did not seem tp do me any good. At last X
decided to take Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills. I took a few bottles of the former and a
vial of the latter, when all symptoms 'of the complaint left me. Since then I have had no indication
@f the trouble. My appetite is excellent and my digestion perfect. I can now do more, and harder,
work than ever before in my life.”
From Miss E. Moncrieff Davidson, 1 Izett-street, Prahran, Vic., sth January, 1904.
“ It is with pleasure I acknowledge the amount of benefit I derived f-rom taking Warner’s Safe
Cur* and Warner’s Safe Pills, when suffering from liver complaint, and other remedies had failed to
do me any good. I had a constant disposition to sick headache, a prostrated, tired feeling, especially
in the spring, and susceptibility to change of seasons, but since taking Warner’s Safe Cure and Pills I
have been free from all such symptoms.”
From Mrs. E. Howard, 31 Hyde-street, Adelaide, S.A., 7th October, 1903.
“ I have suffered very much, at different times, for many years from liver complaint, indigestion,
and general debility. At first I paid little attention, but, getting worse as time went on, I began to
fear that I was on the eve of a general constitutional break-up. After trying various medicines, with-
out benefit, I heard of Warner’s Safe Cure. On inquiry, I found that many of my friends had taken
this medicine, with great and lasting benefit. Hearing such glowing accounts of the medicine, I
decided to give it a trial. It gave me almost immediate relief. In a few weeks I was quite cured, and
have had no trouble of the kind since.”
From Mr. J. W. Reid, Grocer, See., Manchester House, 171 Johnston-street, Collingwood, Vic., 14th
January, 1904.
“Having suffered from liver complaint for many years, and found no successful remedy in doctors’
medicines, I have on three different occasions taken Warner’s Safe Cure with most happy results.
The first time, after taking four bottles, I was completely restored, the second time, about five years
afterwards, same result with three bottles, and I am taking it now with every evidence of the same
success as before. I merely wish to testify to the efficacy of your invaluable medicine, and will cer-
tainly recommend it to all to whom it may be a boon.”
From Mr. W. F. Stanley, 5 Napier-street, Paddington, N.S.W., 19th September, 1903.
“ I have much pleasnre in giving my experience as to what Warner’s Safe Cure did for me. I
suffered from constipated bowels and severe pains in my stomach a,nd kidneys. I often retched so
much that I brought up pieces of the coating of my stomach. I was in the hospital three times, but
the treatment there seemed to do me no permanent good. Finally, I was advised to give Warner s
Safe Cure a trial. I did so, and after taking two bottles, can honestly say lam cured.”
As many people find it difficult to understand why Warner’s Safe Cure cures, as it does, com-
Elaints seemingly so different in character as Indigestion, Rheumatism, Biliousness, Gout, Neuralg*,.
lumbago, Sciatica, Anaemia, Debility, Blood Disorders, Gravel, Bladder Troubles, an explanation 1.-,.
perhaps, necessary.
Warner’s Safe Cure is primarily a specific cure for all diseases of the kidneys and even
Bright’s Disease, the most fatal of all diseases of the kidneys yielding to its curative properties.
Now, all the complaints abovementioned have but one origin, namely, the inability of the kidneys
and liver to perform their work of removing from the system uric acid and other urinary and biliai y
poisons. When such poisons are retained in the body the development of or one more of the disordti s
set forth is the result.
Warner’s Safe Cure restores the kidneys and liver to health and activity, and enables them to
fulfil their allotted task of extracting these poisonous waste products from the blood, and expelling;,
them from the body in a natural manner.
As a consequence, all disorders caused by the presence of such poisons are necessarily cured. [4.].
Noon of Love.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f | HE unregarded hours of night
Between their kisses slipped away,
Till on the midst of their delight
White-hot and fierce broke in the day.
Fierce and white-hot, the winds of morn
Sucked out the life of lesser men.
They panted, half in drowsy scorn,
Laughed, and touched hands, and kissed again,
Between the raptures as they lay,
She thrilled, and whispered, “Yet. ..we die —
Let us love now, while love we may ;
Kiss now ! who knows but Death stands by ;
“ Grey Death, that all our best of bliss
May strangle in his griping clutch ?
Kiss, husband ! while I feel thy kiss
I shall not fear liis coming... much.”
But he, with arms about her thrown,
“ Fear nought, my wife,” began to say ;
“We that are lovers may not own
A less imperishable sway :
“ Whether our doom long hours shall wait,
Or grant but one, but this one night,
We are the lords of either fate,
And bend them both to our delight.
“Grey Death, that all the lesser loves
Still strangles with his griping hands,
Whom neither prayer nor anguish moves,
Nor scorn, nor any king’s commands—
“ Death at our feast shall stand behind,
Like a trained serving-man, that whips
The tasted dishes off, to find
What fresh may lure his master's lips,
“ Still avid of the unpossessed,
Scarce to regret the sweets he leaves :
And we—as at that feast a guest,
Unheeding whence they come, perceives
“ New dainties on the board, and sees
A nobler vintage brim the glass—
So o’er the strewn eternities
From each just-ageing joy we pass
“ Unsated to the joy new-born ;
Still young, still lo vdng, still we climb
New heights of love, and laugh to scorn
The slow decrepitudes of Time.”
ISHMAEL DARE.
A Hash-house Helot.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FIVE O’CLOCK, and a dark, wet morn-
ing* In the narrow kitchen the lamp has
just been lit, and the cockroaches leave
the cold meat and make for darkness and safety.
The Boss hurries to and fro, bringing in coals,
filling the hot-water fountain, and swearing at the
fire. He staggers out at a run with an enormous
pan of ashes, his dark face contorted with the
effort ; his greasy shirt ruffles up round his middle ;
his trousers threaten to fall off. He replaces the
ashes-pan, curses again the fire, and starts to clean
the fish. To the dirt of yesterday and the ashes
of to-day are added the scales and sundries of the
“’couta.”
I start drearily on a pile of last night’s dirty
Elates. The water is half cold and the towels wet.
life doesn’t seem Worth living, for I have spent
the greater part of the night pursuing insects
with a lighted candle, and I am worn-out. My
eyes keep closing in spite of me, and I yawn till
my jaws ache.
The Boss wants to know “vat de ’ell is
dematter-a?” and advises me to “ look-a slippy
about de dam dishes.”
It is a relief when an early breakfaster arrives,
and the Boss, putting on his hat (I cannot imagine
why, unless it be an obscure form of etiquette),
goes to take his order. Then he thrusts his head
through the shoot, and, addressing an imaginary
cook, snarls, “Steak, an’a slice ; tea widout-a.”
He comes back, cooks the steak, and, transforming
himself into an attendant Hebe by the simple
process of tucking a grey-complexioned towel
under his belt, serves it with his own fair hands.
Presently the Missus drifts languidly in. She
is seldom able to rise without waking at least one
of the little Renalgos, Madalenas or Guiseppes,
who hang to her skirts by day and encompass her
by night; and now violent screams herald the
approach of the last baby but one. He stag-
gers in, clad only in his short waistcoat of wool,
looking like a little sucking-pig. His mother is
making pies, and, bawling the while, he essays to
climb her skirts. Being shaken impatiently off,
he tries his father’s leg. The Boss, who is cook-
ing chops, seizes him, planks him on the floor in a
corner, and tosses him a bone. Having to defend
this against the cat’s advances, Renalgo stops yell-
ing. but not before he wakes the baby, who, wailing
and kicking, is brought downstairs by his brothers
and sisters.
A chubby lot they are, brown-skinned and black-
eyed. They are clad in night-attire of men’s colored
shirts (left behind by skedaddling boarders), the
long sleeves of which drop into the pig-bucket
as the imps gather round it, extracting from its
cavernous depths evil-smelling bones to feed a
mangy cur that now appears from some dark cor-
ner.
As the Boss co As he scolds, worries at the fire
and savagely thumps a steak with his fist. Then
he snatches the wailing baby from the floor,
tucks it, face downwards, under his arm, and
stands while the missus loads the other arm with
plates of chops, steak, and sausages, and on his
grimy fingers erects a tier of cups. Thus loaded, ha
sails in to attend the boarders, who, one by one
stamp down to breakfast. ’
lo those breakfasters whose pay is sure he
apologises with hideous forced smiles for the
presence of “de yoongster.” One man ventures
on a little sympathy ; but, as he is chronically in
arrears, the Boss turns such a wolfish look on him
that he retires hastily behind his newspaper.
Through the noise I hear the Boss grumbling
about Vilet, de waitress, an’ ’Airiet, de nurse ;
cle bletty colonials ! feech-a lazy trollops ! I pays
dem fine a wages to come at fife a-clock-a and dev
come-a at dinner-time, and ack de fine-a lady.”
wfih h^ the r hgn3d “ Vl ’ let ” arrives, crowned
with the curling-pms of early morning, the Boss
returns to the kitchen, where, pipe in mouth and
„liat on head, he cuts up meat at lightning speed,
while the Missus drags her slippered feet from
stove to table and from table to stove. Her stock-
ings are innocent of heel, her back is bent, and in
silence she makes pies.
I set to work to mix the plum-pudding. The
flour is measured into the pail overnight, and now
a score of cockroaches scuttle out, but some,
blinded by the flour, have to be extricated one at
a time. The Boss, chancing to notice them,
chases the laggards with the flat of his carving-
knife. Some don’t leave the pan at all.
In due time the Boss passes out on his way to
market, pausing in the pantry to tell “Vi’let”
briefly his opinion of her in particular and of
waitresses in general. He is classically draped in
potato-sacks, for it is raining, and he pushes a
hand-cart, one side bearing the legend, “Giacomo
Tartelli; Australian Restaurant,” and the other
the mysterious inscription, “For Sail.” As he
disappears Yi’let puts her fingers disrespectfully to
her snub-nose and languidly turns again to the
cleaning of the “silver.”
I “do” the bedrooms —comfortless apartments,
and meagrely furnished. Round each bed the
floor is spotted with candlegrease, bearing silent
witness to the nightly massacre of the innocents.
Every bed has its accompanying mound of dirty
socks and shirts; each wash-jug is filled to the
neck with rubbish. The towels are mere holes
surrounded by a ragged fringe.
In the half-filled bath lies what a nervous
stranger might easily take for a determined
suicide—a pair of yellow “ moles,” a check shirt,
and red handkerchief float upon the water, and on
the floor alongside lie the hat and boots of the
“unfortunate man.” But the spectacle has no
terrors for me. I know it for old Barber’s “ other
clothes ”in soak. Old Barber is our best boarder,
and, as a man of prompt payment, is held in
respect by the Boss. He is a decent old man, and
about the only one in the place who doesn't use
horrible language.
An hour or so before dinner the crate containing
our “stock” turkeys is placed conspicuously at
the front door. Over them a card announces
“Poultry to-morrow,” and the public naturally
supposes it is looking at what will be to-morrow’s
pilce-de-resistance. But those birds are merely
stage-properties—a living but lying advertisement.
They are the Ideal; the Real comes home from
market weekly, and may be anything, from an
Orpington to an ostrich, so long as he is feathered
and cheap. Even now, to-morrow’s sacrificial
bird, in the shape of a black swan, hangs dead in
the recesses of the coal-shed.
The Boss now “ dresses ” for dinner. His ward-
robe consists entirely of confiscated “kits,” and
his to-day’s array is reminiscent of many past
boarders. I recognise his blue trousers as those
once worn by “ Long Dave.” They turn in under
the boss’s heels, and muffle the sound of his foot-
fall. The moorings of his underwear seem to have
given way, and an inch or two of red flannel
emerges from his trousers and drapes itself on his
canvas shoe. He wears a sham diamond in his
dingy shirt, and an artificial flower in his button-
hole, but dispenses with a collar, showing instead
a glimpse of a frowsy shirt.
Vi’let also dresses; her hair is done in an
enormous “roll” in front and a rat’s-tail behind,
topped by a rusty black bow. Her common little
face is heavily powdered, and her neck hung
about with mock-pearls. Her untidy skirt is
partly hidden by a natty frilled apron, and she
minces about in a pair of high-heeled shoes.
Presently there is a rush of “ coalies,” and from
that moment all is chaos, and the dining-room is
a sea of black faces. The coalies are hungry, and
their demands for attention are almost threats.
The Boss promptly loses his head ; he always
does, though asserting to the last that he was “ de
only cool von in de dam crowd-a !" He muddles
their orders, and mixes things up generally.
Orders pour through the shoot, and the voice of
Vi’let cleaves the hum of coalies as she squeals the
bill-of-fare ; the clatter of dishes, the scolding of
the Missus and wrangling of the children in the
kitchen bring the Boss rushing in. “ For Lor’s
sake take dem darn-a lceeds out of dis leetle-a
corner ! ” he hisses. Simultaneously he treads on
the baby’s stomach, clutches his hair, calls on
Heaven, and begins snatching wet plates from the
tub, piling them with cabbage and potatoes with
his hands. He plunges whole stacks of plates into
the washtub without first removing the “leav-
ings,” and renders the water unfit for use in-
stantly. When the tub is full he piles them on
the floor, where they are a trap for our feet and a
joy to the dog (till it makes a hasty exit at the
toe of the Boss). Then, to our relief, a dispute
over payment draws him away te the dining,
room. *
After dinner we have a time of pleasant relaxa-
tion ; the kitchen, swept and garnished, wears a
homely air, and the all-pervading smell of hot fat
and pig-brisket is replaced by a mingled odor of
phenyle and baking scones. The Boss, sitting in
front of the fire, tabes his “ clay ” from his mouth
to say : ‘‘ De bletty larrikin-a say I cannot-a spell
English By crikey, in my contree it is not-a de
bletty eddacation, but de preenciple.” No one
taking up the subject, he replaces his pipe, and
strolls into the yard.
As I pass out he is re-painting the inscription
on his cart', which now reads “ For Sell.”
JACKDAW.
Civilisation and Convention.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CIVILISATION is the multiplication of
conventions. No convention means sa-
vagery. The more numerous the conven-
tions the greater the civilisation, but the conven-
tions need not necessarily be of great things.
Convention in small things is os important as
convention in great.
Civilisation lies on one side of the man who eats
with his knife; savagery on the other. The per-
ception of a convention will lead him to civilisa-
tion. To drop convention is to drop everything,
even clothes. The naked animal has no conven-
tion, neither has the infant j but the infant,
growing, shows himself the child of his race in
unquestioning acceptance ef the convention of
that race.
Convention is the rubber-tyre of life. Without
it there would only be room for the fighting man,
and not much for him. The man who disregards
convention hurts us (we are ill when he forgets to
say “please”); but he hurts himself more, and
his race most. In him is the “black drop” of
reversion.
Convention is, on the one side, a recognition
of the rights of others ; on the other side a recog-
nition of our right by those others. It is the one
great agreement that needs no signature, and is
binding alike on individuals and on nations. As
to nations : By their conventions ye shall know
them.
Convention is to lire mental, moral, spiritual
and physical, what clothes are to the body. When
a convention ceases to fit life it is dropped—not
because the convention is in fault, but because
Life has changed. While it fits, it lives. Con-
vention is conservation. It is the niche in which
we stand in security while we cut the higher one
above our heads.
Deliberately unconventional people are gener-
ally cranks; the unconsciously unconventional,
ignorant. Ignorance is the enemy of man. To
be conventional is to.be normal. . A convention
only becomes such by fitting the many. The many
are the people. The few may be the leaders, but
they are oftener the derelicts, at times the reverts.
The freest people are they who, having the
most numerous conventions, feel them least.
They also are the most highly and truly civilised.
M. GILMOKE.
A recent case in England turned on the
question of how much mu?*j may be inflicted on a
neighbor. The man who sought an injunction
lived in one of two semi-detached villas. The
other was occupied by a family considerably
addicted to music. The mother and daughter
give lessons on piano and violin throughout the
day; at night a son practised the ’cello, and a
lodging professional vocalist regularly lifted up
his voice in song. The combined efforts of the
family and the lodger were occasionally reinforced
by friends who came to spend a “ musical even-
ing.” The Judge appealed to could give no
redress, holding that what was being done did not
go beyond “ the legitimate use of a house.” A
parallel judgment as to what is the legitimate use
of an axe under such circumstances would be
interesting.


fig
ALWAYS AILING,”
YET NOT SICK ENOUGH TO KEEP TO BED.
What a lot of people there are
“ always ailing ” —hut not sick enough
to go to bed. How do you know them ?
By their pale, sallow faces, dull eyes
and hopeless appearance —thin in face
and body, and always alarmed at their
condition.
They will tell you their back aches,
that their head and limbs ache; that
they have no energy —are rheumatic,
nervous, and irritable ; can’t sleep,
can’t eat; every little cold affects their
back—they cough a little, and their
hearts act strangely. They are gener-
ally miserable.
Such people have kidney trouble,
and don’t know it.
Despondent as they are, it is difficult
to convince them, and to get them to
stop thinking about their ills. But if
anything can do this, we believe it is
the statements of their neighbour made
in this article. Though they have lost
confidence in all medicine —a neigh-
bour brings a ray of hope in Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills and a neigh-
bour’s evidence is good evidence.
CMh
//fe
“Every Picture ielis a Story.”
Lasting SYDNEY Cures
Mr. Mahk Tiernky, 6 Darling-street, Glebe, this city,
lays: “In reference to the statement made by me four
years ago regarding my cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, I am glad to inform you that I am still well to day,
mid have been ever since using this remedy. lam only too
pleased to let everyliody know about this mediiine.”
The statement Mr. Tierney refers to is as follows : “For
a considerable tim» I have been subject to severe pains across
the small of my back, at times extending down tie loins. I
was always using liniments, but can’t say much for the
results. I could not rest comfortably at night, •• nd thus had
insufficient sleep. I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
advertised, and procured some. The first few doses eased
my pains, and, after taking a course, I was thoroughly
cured. ”
Four Years Cured.
Mr. John Moroney, Ham and Beef Shop, 228 Eliza-
beth-street, this city, states: —“About eighteen months
ago I began to get a feeling in the small of my back as if I
had a growth there, or if some foreign substance had lodged
tl.e 'e. I saw Mr. Grieve’s statement in the papers about
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and one day I asked him for
the full particulars of the case, and he advised me to use
this medicine. I’ve not got much to say beyond mentioning
that the pills cured me. They have removed the unpleasant
sensation altogetl e. - ; I’ve not felt the slightest sign of it
since I used Do: n s Pills. It is twelve months ago since
Doan’s Pills fixed up my back, and I am not afraid of the
trouble returning now.”
Three years later Mr. Moroney again states: —“Ibave
had no discomfort with the kidneys since I made the above
statement, over three years ago. They cured me then, and
lam still well. Tney are splendid pills. If aiybody calls
to see me about this case, I will be glad to give them full
particulars of my cure.”
Be careful to get
The Genuine Doan’s.
4MV sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of
by the FOSTER-McCLELLAN CO., 76 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
but BES SURE THEY ARE DOANS.
Up, Thou Sluggard!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LIKE to a captive bird he pines,
Who, snatcht from out the purple
sky,
Doth see the windy, star-lit lines
Where only now his soul may fly.
For him the sun need never lift
His wheel from out the sea again ;
For him the moon may drown and drift
Mid floods of silver snow and rain.
For what tho’ Winter hold the land,
Tho’ Summer come, tho’ Summer go—
He is defeated of Love’s hand,
And put to lasting shame and woe.
O man, O woman-loving man,
Is this thy hardy majesty,
To sink beneath the weakling ban
Of some fair girl’s duplicity ?
Fie on thee, sluggard ! Seize thy sword,
Fling discontent and care away.
Go to this damsel ... be her lord
Despite of any word she say.
And I will promise joyous things
For thee unto thine heart’s content —
For women make of men their kings
The ones who most their minds have bent.
But only jibes and bitter scorn
In heaped-up measure are bestowed
On those who’d better not been born—
The cowards-errant of Love’s Road.
Fair ladies dote on manly feats
Of strength of arms and bravery,
And yield, for such, their utmost sweets
To everlasting slavery.
So up, thou sluggard ! Seize thy sword,
Fling discontent and care away.
Go to this damsel ... be her lord
Despite of any word she say.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
A Sybarite on the Wallaby.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DON’T start on the “wallaby” if you
can avoid it, because when you shoulder
your swag you never know when you will
put it down again. If you will give the thing a
trial, however, here are a few useful hints, founded
■on 20 years’ experience on the track.
As to the swag, carry everything that is indis-
pensable and nothing else. It is useless to try to
carry on your back sufficient to make you even
moderately comfortable when in employment. If
you leave a job, or get the sack, you had better
remorselessly sacrifice all superfluities. If you
don’t, you will either half-kill yourself or throw
them away before you have gone far.
A pair of the best dark-blue blankets, at least
18 inches longer than yourself, is the first requi-
site. If in one piece, as they generally are, cut
them in two and hem the bottoms. You also want
a sheet, of double-width unbleached calico, six
inches or a foot longer than the blanket. It will
assist you in “rolling up,” if you fold the blan-
kets in three, backwards and forwards, and mark
the folds with a few stitches of red or white
worsted.
Next, a valise made of unbleached calico or
light macintosh, with one flap to tuck in and
another to go round outside once or twice. It
should be about 2in. deep, wide, and as long
as the width of the blanket folded into three.
When packed, it should be secured by two pieces
of tape or two very light straps. You can water-
proof the whole, if you like, with linseed oil.
In this you should carry everything hard, such
as shaving-tackle and the like, and spar e tobacco,
tea and sugar, with enough of other things to
make valise and blanket, when rolled up together,
rather more than half the total weight you have
to carry. The end that will be uppermost should
be slightly the heavier.
To carry swag, have made two straps 2in. wide
for about Din., then tapering sharply into ordinary
straps, with buckle-holes. The whole about 2ft.
long, the broad end sewn double, leaving loop
just wide enough to admit strap round swag ; the
broad and tapering part to be padded with horse-
hair in thin, soft leather, moleskin, or the like.
A buggy-apron hook should be made fast to each
strap at the point where it tapers over the
shoulder-blade. Each of these requires a short
strap, with a buckle at one end and a loop for
swag-strap at the other.
To roll up. Spread sheet, or a third of the
right-hand side of it, on cleanest and smoothest
available surface, which need not be much wider
than length of swag when rolled up. Lay one
blanket on sheet right-hand edge, six or eight
inches from edge of sheet, other blanket on top.
Fold over last blanket so that one-third is below
and two-thirds above, same with the other ; then
fold back into three, and sheet same way on top,
and turn over edge of sheet to protect blanket
completely. Place valise near head end and roll
up, pressing down flat each time top or bottom of
valise is uppermost, so as to produce a flattened
oval and not a round swag. Put one swag-strap
through the loops of the broad shoulder-straps and
the other through those with the buckles. Put
top swag-strap round swag six inches from the end
and the other as near the bottom as possible.
Get two small sugar or rice bags of hessian,
turned inside-out, and crease the corners the same
way a grocer turns down the corners of a paper-
bag. Sew across the creases, giving each bag a
flat bottom two inches wide. Sew the triangles
thus left to what will form the narrow sides of the
bag. One of these bags is for your soft clothing—
shirts, socks, &c.—and the other for tucker. You
want one broadish strap for each of these bags,
with a ring or “D” made fast twelve inches
from the buckle, to hang on hooks of shoulder-
straps.
Carry tea and sugar in the thin, tough paper-
bags tea is often sold in, each being placed in and
as a lining to a slightly larger Hag of unbleached
calico. You should have two of each for tea and
sugar respectively, only carrying enough for one
or two days’ use in the tucker-bag, the rest in the
valise.
In packing any bag, big or little, distribute the
contents evenly at the bottom, and then, holding
the top with your chin, roll up just like a swag.
If you carry a tent, fold the walls back inside,
doors and end projecting as triangles at each
extremity. Bring ridge to eaves, double again,
and turn in door and end neatly. Roll up blanket,
&c„ in this, button flush with eaves, leaving any
extra width to project at top. Fasten this down
over top end of swag with string or strap, passing
through top swag-strap, to keep out rain.
You will want a three-pint and a three-quart
billy, and a third big enough to hold the latter is
very useful if weight is not objected to. I ut a
piece of thick moleskin in the bottom of each
before packing.
A shingling hammer (not a plasterer’s hammer)
or small axe is one of the most indispensable
articles to carry in the bush. The front being
straight, you can use it as a hammer where the
plasterer’s would not serve : the notch is available
for drawing nails, and with patience you can do
almost any sort of cutting with it. I have skinned
and cut-up rabbits, cut and spread bread and
butter, chopped mincemeat, and broken up crusts
too hard for the teeth with one. A piece of leather,
with a hole for the handle to pass through,
wrapped round the head, projecting somewhat at
both ends, and secured by a very light strap, is
very convenient. You can carry it hung to your
belt behind, in your tucker bag, or stuck m the
top swag-strap. .
A few words about clothing. A light serge
sac coat of navy blue and a cardigan jacket are
the most suitable for the bush ; the former for
best, the latter for work, and both for cold
weather. Carry plenty of socks, and change at
least three times a week—it is just as easy
to wash three soiled as one dirty pair. Make
some dripping by rendering down (say) a jam-tin-
full of raw mutton suet, mixing with about the
aime quantity of neatsfoot oil, and adding couple
of spoonsful of Stockholm tar. Wash your boots
inside and out, and, ivhilst thoroughly wet , rub the
dripping well in, and also inside as well as out.
The oil softens, the fat keeps out the wet, and the
tar forbids microbes to come near either the leather
or your feet. Carry a small tin of this in your
biliy, and a tiny slush-lamp, made by cutting down
a jam-tin (leaving a handle) to 5-8 of an inch in
depth, a small piece of moleskin laid across serving
as a tvick.
In selecting a camp you must be guided by
circumstances, the essentials being wood and
watery and the very-desirables, shelter, bushes for
bedding, and dry ground. The third billy, men-
tioned before, gives you greater latitude of choice,
anc|cby filling:«11 three as camping time approaches
you can secure'enough for both night and morn-
ning, and also a more suitable spot for camping
than may be obtainable in the immediate vicinity
of water, and such latitude of choice will generally
secure freedom from undesirable company. Such
ahvays camp near water, and, if. possible, near
others of their own stamp. Having selected the
locality, fix upon the exact spot where you intend
to lie down, and make a fire at least Gft. (9ft. in
dry weather) to the east or leeward of where your
feet will be.
To light the fire, select two short pieces of wood
about as thick as your wrist, more or less, accord-
ing to the size of billy to be boiled. Place them
side by side, far enough apart for the billy to rest
on top, and leave a space underneath as a flue in
the direction of the wind. Place a small quantity
of the most inflammable material available—
stringy-bark, ribbon-bark, gum-leaves, paper, &c.—
at the windward end of these sticks, with the billy
full of water in place. Have some small twigs,
sprays of dry gum-leaves, &c., close handy. Light
the fine stuff, and, as soon as well on fire, add
more by degrees, finishing with sticks of fair size
all round the billy. If it is raining or blowing
hard, proceed as above, but shelter with a sack,
sheet, coat, blanket, or anything else available.
Hold it in front of you, kneeling with hack to
wind, secure the bottom with your knees wide
apart, the top being held between your teeth
whilst you strike a match and start the fire under
the shelter thus provided.
Always make a bed of anything soft at hand-
sprays of gum-leaves, rushes, grass, &c.; the
trouble is well repaid ; you cannot rest properly
on a hard, flat surface. If you are particular, lay-
down small sprays with the butts outward, right
and left. Unroll the tent without unfolding it,
and lay it on the bed of leaves, &e., with the end
that was inside when rolled up where the back
of your neck will lie. Unroll sheet and
blanket on this, starting at the foot, so that
the inner roll will bi at the head. Turn back
sheet. Turn back third fold of blankets to the
right, and spread the two-thirds of sheet over it.
Carefully double the whole half-way hack towards
the nead. Fold the bottom corners of the sheet
and blankets over the rest as fair as they will go.
Roll up towards post, and then unroll again
underhand and turn all there is to spare beyond
your own length over on top : and the spare end
of tent on top of that. Your feet will thus he
practically in a bag, with the extra thickness on
top. Place your valise, a piece of wood, or some
bushes against the bottom, and cover with more
bushes to prevent your feet turning the end hack.
Finally put the sticks from which you have
stripped the sprays on top of all to keep off wind
and sparks. If it looks like rain you can cover
the whole sheet and blankets with more sprays.
If 1 lid on carefully like thatch, and you lie still,
they will keep off a lot of rain. Use your bag of
clothes as a pillow, and leave sheet and blanket—
especially the former—long enough to cover your
head.
In wet weather it is a risky thing to sling your
tent unless you have time and tucker to wait un-
til it is dry, which may be a matter of hours
• ■ days. A soaking wet tent is nearly as
bad to' carry as a cart-load of bricks. 1 f you do
want to pitch it, find two saplings a little further
apart than the length of the tent. Use a rope for
the ridge, and peg out the corners only with four
short pegs, to which fasten the corner guy-ropes;
eaves close to the ground, walls turned ins de.
After making the rope fast to one of the saplings
and slipping it through the holes at eacli end of
the ridge, gather the whole tent in a bunch on
your shoulder whilst you pull the rope tight and
make fast to the second sapling, otherwise you
will find it hard to fit the ridge anything like
straight, and if there is much sag in the middle
the tent will slip down towards it.
If there is plenty of scrub and rain is threaten-
ing, select a good thick bush with suitable ground
to leeward for lying on. Push a long stick into it
about four or five feet from the ground and sup-
port the other end at the same height by two
other sticks tied together, one forked, and tl e
other resting in the fork. Place other sticks
against the ridge thus formed, as rafters, and
thatch with green branches, beginning at the
bottom butts of branches upwards, and slanting to
the rear. After covering the whole structure,
make good any weak places by inserting small
branches wherever wanted. Such a shelter, if
well put together, will practically keep off any
rain.
To the unthinking or careless reader, many of
these details may seem trivial and unnecessary—
“things which any fool would think of.” But as
a matter of fact, neither fools nor wise men do
always think of them. And they are all necessary
VESPERTILIO


Weak and Delicate
Debilitated and Languid for Years. Health and Vigor now Fully
Restored. Most Remarkable Cure.
Sc
• «>
y
Mrs. Mabel Boulton, of Turbot
St., Brisbane, Queensland, sends
us ber photograph, and says:
“From my infancy I was weak
ancf delicate, and grew to be any-
thing but a robust child, suffering
from debility, no appetite, and
the usual consequences of such
complaints. But my parents,
hearing of the health-restoring
properties of Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
procured some for me, and I am
happy to say that after having
taken two bottles I regained
health and vigor, and a good
appetite, and have not troubled
the doctors since. I am now
married and have a family of my
own, am strong and well, and can
recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
as a good family medicine.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is certainly a splendid family medicine. It is just as
good for the child as for the parent. The only difference is in the dose.
The thin, pale schoolgirl is as much benefited as her tired, nervous mother.
The rapidly growing boy, weak and languid, is as promptly aided as his
overworked and overanxious father. Keep this grand medicine in the house.
A dose at the right time will often save a long and expensive sickness.
All Sarsaparillas are not alike. Look out for that. Avoid the many
substitutes and imitations. Insist upon getting “ Ayer’s.”
AYER’S 1 arsaparilla
Takes out all Impurities from the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative.
Prepared by P®- ■*- <0- ayek 00-. lioyreU. KaM„ TT. S. A.
JOHN BRUSH,
SatUf lev,
371 George Street,
SYI3MEY.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO
GOUT
PILLS
I* the Great English (Jure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable thr'ough any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Free to Men.
%A#RITE to me and I will forward you my cienoinc
* * book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the assing, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
Mons Ahmano Goujuitd, 82 Little Flinders St.. Melbourne.
V.
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appetite for food will
■return, refreshing sleep ensues. My cure wi'l 1
surprise and delight you.
ONE OF MANY:
Ravensthoi'pe, W.A., 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, which has effected
a cure. / hare no desire for drink , in fact have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
Fours gratefully , R.G.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address ■
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S , Eng.
129 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
O'. ft'COHO-
«*»<**•■ If e-
VAR COtiELE Re s lSdy for WEA »«ESS, DEBILITY,
and Vlti L n4-J te +n fe tore / s snorg:y’5 norg:y ’ str ength
consthnfW,.** most " eak and shattered
Pri M?rit 1 & d sfca,n P s lor free pamphlet.
Is. and Is. Cd ’ qUantltles in one > 36s - height extra,
Agents for Australasia*- PERRY & CO., 47 flii- rfn st
St b S °v^fJ ■V- W & Co., 'J* O’Conneii
Sydney , Newcastle, Adelaide, and . ’erth.
68
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. c
-tiJIEjIDIR/UDG-JU <Sc GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fNLOROPyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, GOLDS,
ASTHMA, BiiQWGHIfH
DiAKJtiHCEA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
SHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28 1826. says;
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorodynb. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
ts best recommendation.”
WEAK MADE STRONG!
-'A
OUR Electric Appliance
pours glowing, exhilar-
ating Vitality into you
while you sleep. It Animates
the s3ug g i s h circulation,
Stimulates the Brain to
Activity, and fills the body
with Life, Ambition, and
Endurance. It furnishes
the Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energy and Vigor. Catalogue and Price List
Post Free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MEN, DON’T WORRY
After you have tried all other remedies for NERVOUS-
NESS, DEBILITY, etc., as thousands have done before we
CURED them. Let us treat you,-FREE of CHARGE,
for ONE MONTH, with our NEW CONCENTRATED
BOTANIC EXTRACTS, and the BENEFICIAL RESULTS
will surprise you.
Address: Botanic Institute, Victoria
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
gd
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
r, 145 Collins St., Melbourne
ASTHMA CURED
at home TO STAY CURED. Causes removed.
Health restored. Attacks never return. We have
;reated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever Patients in
Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, and
America. By Mail only. Not sold in stores. Write for
Book 32C, FREE, postpaid. Dr. P. Harold Hayes’
Asthmatic Institute, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
be e p»s
Ij’Oß Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILT, GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUIN 1A A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System : restoring the long-lost Complexion : bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing wil l) the Rosebud ok Health the Whole Physical Enehgy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Jicfliayi.’x Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinein
he ivortd. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes. Is l.Jd, and 2s 9d each.
NEW CLUB SHOT SHELLS
t
RE factory loaded with standard BLACK
POWDER and shot and wadjed with the
famous U.M.C. wads. New Clubs are the most
popular shell of their class in America and else-
where, for they are hard hitting and give a uniform
pattern to the shot charge. Moderate priced.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U, S. A.
. KTNG, Swan’s St., North Freemantle, W. Australia,^
HAS BEEN CURED
OF A SCROTAL
UPTIME
V'
Mb. J. KING
of 20 years’ standing without operation, and has dis-
carded his truss. He had suffered not only from his rupture,
but also from the effects of ill-fitting spring trusses, which caused
more pain than the rupture. He had given up all hopes of a cure
until he heard of the Il'ice method. He tried it and it cured him.
Thousands of men, women and children have been cured by this
method without pain, danger or operation. Among them are
Chas. Pittner, Mossman. via Port Douglas, Queensland; Mrs.
P. Medley, 331, Swan Street. Richmond, Melbourne; L. Exton
(child), 2, Harold Street, Newtown, near Sydney, N.S.W.; and
J. Westhead, River Darling, .Pooncaria, N.S.W. Your rupture
cannot be worse than some I have ,;ured. You owe it to yourself to
at least investigate carefully this method of cure. BEWARE of
any person or persons claiming to be or to have been at any time
connected with me in business in any way. Such statements are
absolutely fraudulent and devoid of all foundation. BEWARE
of all imitations of my method. The genuine Rice method can be
obtained from my London office only. I will send you a book
giving a complete description of rupture and its cure, and telling
why the Rice method has succeeded in so many thousands of
cases, if you will write for it. Do not be misled by worthless
guarantees, but write for mv world-wide-known and tested
method. Write to-day to W. S. RICE, Rupture Specialist
(Dept. 2320), 8 & 9, Stonecutter Street, London, E.C.
FITTLE
IVER
PILLSa
There’s SECURITY in
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Prlofc
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter’s
g
Price Is. Id.
Post Free.


A Good Macintosh!
RUBBER
BOOTS.
Men’s—ls/-, 17/6,
18/6.
Women’s—l2/6.
GOLOSHES.
Men’s—3/9, 41-,
4/6, 5/-.
Women ’s—2/9,
3/-, 3/9.
“CONNAUGHT,” Cape Coat, without
Sleeves, 20/-, 35/-, 42/-
“ ASCOTT,” Sleeve Coat, with Ventilated
Yoke, 35/-, 42/-, 50/-
Perdriau Rubber Go.
Ltd.
(Late Perdriau and Co.),
RUBBER MERCHANTS,
270 George Street, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
dgd
CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and eare'ully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
lar the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence .guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parti a 3
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCINQ I'LOORS
of various sixes supplied.
The Bulletin Story Sook:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
• pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
g
WORTH INGTON.
TRADE MARK-
32 and 34 Clarence St., Sydney.
•0,
WORTHINGTON PUMPS for all Services.
Condensers
High Lift Centrifugals
Oil Separators
Send for Catalogues,
Cooling Towers
Feed Water Heaters
Air Compressors
Meters.
mm**
\ **
m
T A.3XTC3-Y3EIS
HL ENSUES
BENNIES, TEARS & GO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth and Ooolgardie.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
■ r . *- • . ... . • s ■ .. '■ ' ' • ' ■ \ : I • ’ ' , ■' ■ s-v: ' /’V '
as wen as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
dgd
IESC./Sk.'XriES IjNT «=-Pnn-nr
All Kinds of Engineers’ Fittings and Supplies
Wood Pulleys
Shafting
Hangers
Valves
Summer
Bloc!
Collars
Couplings
g
g
DriSls
Reamers
• Wrenches
Valves
Osier Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
Write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st., Sydney. N.S.W.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a Messing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
Jsgr- BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAn.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bel), Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
rn loct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIIVIS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne. Vic.
A GOLD OR SILVER WATCH FREE,
SEND NO MONEY.
dg
We hereby undertake to give_ one
oi our famous Gold or Silver
Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman, or Child
who sends us the correct reading
of the following Puzzle..
|~DVT~M , *S T«*3 C t *"E j
The only condition is that, 11
vour answer is correct, you pur-
chase one of our SOi.II) STER-
LING SILVER CHAINS, or one
of our Gold-filled Warranted
Chains, to wear with the Watch.
Simply forward your answer
and enclose stamped addressed
envelope, so that we may inform
you if you have won the Watch,
we are making this offer solely
with the object of introducing
and advertising our goods. „
Forward your letter to our address..
Sold
by ILL
First-Class
Stores
nr Australasia.
N«. 8176 J
2 Blades * Pampa
Cocoa Handle - //6
Buffalo Handle « 2/«
Stag Handle • « • 2/6
d
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
ttro thm
BEST.
•f v
.
§9
We are Direct Importers
and have
SNOW DUPLEX
(••sodjnd
ll« JOi
■ •zis ||e)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges) Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fitting.,, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRVTTON & CO., Ltd.
S-7 STREET,
LISTEN !!! THE CARD CONCENTRATOR
BEATS EVERYTHING INVENTED.
ITS capacity is from 18 to 20 Tons per day, ST takes less than 1 h.p, to drive it*
ST has < an Auxiliary Attachment for Treating the Middlings.
ST is very strongly built, and will outlast your Mine,
ITS PATENTS ARE SECURE . ST WILL SAVE YOUR MINERAL .
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
