

D. H. BURKE’S “GALLEON” SCHNAPPS. “BEAVER” STOUT (Guinness’)
XO*7
Mining and
Kent str-oot* SiisrOLriey.
—WOMr— r
Contractors 9 Plant, Engineers* and Sawmill Machinery, a«.«**** a
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS a m GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW ANB SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Mining Requisites
ĥ
EOBiLRT,
Hadley’s Orient (jotel.
r ft ION EER"
ħ
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY Bl
:eo.
117 York Si, Sydney
For Direct Ploughing, GENERAL HAULAGE, and Farm Purposes,
McLAREN’S
Compound
h
For Full Particulars apply to SOLE AGENTS—
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., SYDNEY.
are SIMPLE
EFFICIENT
ECONOMICAL
and DURABLE .
A
1
"Always order
Pinc-Agplc Brand HAMS © BAC
The Master wont cat
? othcr r
ĥ
sAr
nationals
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security,
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch i
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Soc iet y)- W. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvasser* Wanted. "WS
a/i t
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
ħ
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
h
u
ft
ĥ
DAILY
TREAT!
ħ
Royal
Dutch
h
O
£5
a
a
o'
a
cw
S 3
*<3
e
Swrf
<**s
ASK
FOR
0 +
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY,
mmr X3ST BOTTX.E3. <*BfS
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
S 3T 33 UXT 3E3 Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended toby our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Pull particulars will be furnished on application.
ĥ
ħ
Melbourne, and Adelaide,
TINTARA
WINES. .
h
Co., Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.26.—N0. 1341.]
[Thursday, October 26,1905.
Registered at the General Post Offloe, Sydney, for Transmission by Port a* a Newas*p»


BOOKS WORTH READING——™.
THE SOCIAL UNREST : Studies in Labor and Socialist Movements, by John Graham Brooks, Wrapper
Is 6d, postage 4d.
The Pall Mall Gazette, London, says : “ It is an extraordinarily interesting book.”
MODERN SOCIALISM s As set forth by Socialists in their Speeches, Writings and Programmes.
Edited by K. C. K. Ensor, cloth 6s, postage 6d. 8
CHRISTIAN SOCIALISM IN ENGLAND, by A. V. Woodworth, cloth 2s 6d, postage 6d.
SOCIALISM, by Tom Mann, wrapper 3d, postage 4d.
PREFEREN7IAL TRADE : A Study of its Esoteric Meaning, by Benjamin Hoare, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
ĥ
mm
m
the Great
<. AS
■Antiseptic Remedy
for Influenza , Bronchitis, Asthma,&&ll affections of
the throat & lungs, a, for prevention of Consuroprios?.
Queensland. A “ ENT p Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Recent Street W.
THE RED PAGE.
When Death comes seeking for a prison'd soul ,
And flings the gate ajar,
The body moulders back to earth again,
The soul becomes a star.
The body rots ; the sun, and wind, and sleet
Fuse it and thresh it o’er
Atom by atom, till its pride complete
Is dust and nothing more.
The storms that roll in seasons round the world-
Take it, anew to raise
The broken paths that they themselves have hurl’d
Clean from the ancient ways.
And thus i 1 vs we mark the sure return
Of mortal man to earth ;
The poor grey ashes of the Grecian urn
Leap up in second birth.
We see with awe the resurrected shapes
Of painted vanity,
The tippler mingling ’mid the roots of grapes
For jocund company:
The buried damsels of a lovely hill,
The mean bare miser plain,
The poets chanting in a lilied rill,
The scowling gulch of Cain :
The priest up-soaring on a snowy peak,
His vestments like a cloud ;
The ice-floe holding in its bosom bleak
The pitiless and proud :
There too the landslip of a Judas lip
Its traitor danger hides,
And scandal falling with its ceaseless drip
Outwears the mountain sides :
The marble pillar of a stalwart face
Above the stagnant fen
Of things by far too horrible and base
To boast the name of men.
When Death comes seeking for a prison’d soul,
And flings the gate ajar,
The body moulders back to earth again,
The soul becomes a star.
N.S.W.
H. McC.
BITS OF MORNINO GLORY
The LODD r x (VIC., 70).
The subtle sense of dawning in the air is felt
first by Murphy, and Murphy’s rooster. For the
one is stumbling and cursing about the dusty yard ;
and the other makes hoarse and ragged peals of
cockcrow in the apple tree; before Madge, high up
towards heaven as the gum will lift her, has let
down a trickle or a bead of sound. Dawn is
manifestly there. You may see Tarrengower
shaping on the sky-line. Mountains as men
moving out of night into day at the impulse of
the dawn. The violet grows into the increasing
yet paling blue along all the east ; and beneath
that violet is the self-same gold as lies beneath the
purple collar of the ripening wheat. On that bar
of gold shapes the fringe of the mountain’s
crest. Delicate as cobweb work ; the forest fringe
webs the gold. Walk the world through and you
shall see no other sky line like that. Elm and oak
make blotched and heavy lines in summer, and
network of fairy skeletons in winter. Larch and
pine are tufted, pinnacled opaque. But the
multitudinous leaves of the eucalypt turned edge-
ward to the light line of dawn or eve, make tracery
which is lovely and rare as network of silver on
apples of gold. It is indigo purple spun on gold.
George Cpllingridge painted it once. He only I
think. Below that lace the foliage falls whorl over
whorl, to the long valley where the mist is still grey
and the mountain side still black.
On the low hills by the river the trees unfold
their dark arms, and fields of wheat and corn
appear. Save where the axe has made death.
There the tall spectres of the night shape slowly
into skeletons. Hark now ! ’Tis an elfin call from
fairy land. From the topmost bough of the
tallest tree a quavering of music ripples down.
It is the magpie awake. But whenever the strain
becomes rich and full, the kookaburra breaks out
incontinent as untimely; the crow awakens with
a groan ; the big white cockatoo with a shriek ; the
parrot and parroquet with joyful but tuneless
calls; the robin and wren, lark and quail with
tweet twitter and peep; raggedly punctu-
ating the dying shrill of the mosquito and
the increasing hum of the abhorrent fly
tribes, who infest the day. One to another,
flock unto flock, flight unto flight. Earliest note
about the time the first of the fairy lace along the
mountain ridge is spun; full clamour while the
first rays consume it, as otherwhere they devour
frost rime and icicles.
As the low rays light the breast of that
world, and the splendour of the full day
spreads fast on to the slopes and searches
towards the depths of the gullies, the clamour
dies away. Like Murphy and his raucous-voiced
cock, the common sort of wild fowl are getting
about their business. But high on the topmost
limb of the dead gum tree the magpie sits and
strangely sings. A broken-linked, bubbling strain,
such as some great human singer might send out, if
memory and power of continuity had snapped
together, but soul and voice of song remained.
Long sings the magpie while the great white
cockatoos flap down on the tasselled com and the
uniform broad grace of the ripening wheat; while
the blue robins and the long-tailed wrens twitter
about the murky scrub and the few belated wattle
blooms. The bell bird tolls “ Amen ” to Madge’s
canticle ere yet the heat of the day is full. A
half-mile up the little creek, where the scrub
growth is thick on the forsaken lead, the bell bird
tolls the sweet “ Amen ” of elfin land. A weird,
sweet sound in that barren, broken land, over
which the full day rolls now in dismal revelation.
MALICOOTA INLET.
The wattle barkers had been there years before,
and our camp was up on staging they had left.
Well above Malicoota water, which runs
inland from a sand bar just west of Gabo,
to the long estuary of the Genoa River. A
lovely and a lonely place. Neither Pop Jackson
nor Broken Bay are fit to hang on the line with it,
in memory’s gallery. Strangely lonely, yet
strangely inhabited while the night held. Un-
familiar calls were made and answered in the big
timber ; the whistle of the wild duck’s wing was
frequent; swans tacked in the ocean of heaven,
squadron hailing squadron the whole night long
“ Xrong! klook ! klook ! krong ! ” Fishes splashed
innumerable, leaping high and falling back on the
smooth water with lusty smacks.
night was long, and dawning welcome. A
band of grey beyond a still slow heaving sea, dull
over its whole breadth as a leaden coffin. Orion low
down to the north, the cross to the south, and a
half-waned moon in mid sky. The long white
breakers dimly seen, be3 i ’ond the Gabo light, as the
tower took shape. The lake a mist cloth, a face
cloth ; Genoa peak a solitary monument, and the
mountain knees of the Big Divide about Bendoc
huge, sombre, menacing. Fearfully and wonder-
fully death-like, corpse-like, is a lone land in the
first grey of the dawn. The scrub birds wake
timidly, the wonga and the bronzewing call in
whispers. The eagle on the gum overhanging the
cliff edge, and the crane on a dead limb over the
shallows, are silent till day is full.
Bendoc is first to see the sun, and a few moments
later Genoa Peak is aglow. And then, to us, in the
low foot hills by the water, appears the sun;
a ball of burning gold, whose rays smite
the cold lead of the ocean to molten, heaving
splendour, and stream over the breakers on
the bar. Seems, then, that the day stands
still, entranced with the perfect beauty all
unveiled and awaking. For the great lake is a
mirror of silver, of steel.' and in the shadows of
the wooded copses, of gltfes. Around all its shores,
doubled by the flawless reflections, is such a braid-
ing of beauty as young Joseph Banks might have
seen round Botany Bay. There are mile-long
ribbands of sand, pink tinted or gold in that
tender light. And within, under the glistening
foliage of the lily-pily, maiden-hair fern thick as
meadow grass dew-beaded and glittering, as a
low ray penetrates the rec'sses.
Over the rocks are the va-lttles. When the rising
bre-ze sways the wattle boughs so as to disclose the
under-leaf there is something of a fairer, richer,
grace than the apples of gold in the network of
silver; and that fair wood-dove, the wonga, knows
it well. Her bower is perfect as is the eyrie of the
eagle, seen over luminous valleys and shining
braes, well swung twixt sky and sea. When he
awakes, that king of the woodlands, and, silent as
majestic and cruel, sweeps out into the sky, all
lesser fowls are silent for a space. His shadow
passes, and the day is full. Genoa Peak is bald
and glaring, and the bones and breasts of Bendoc
hard and haggard. Indeed, th«y are very old.
But down amid the shining leaves and the dew-
beaded ferns and heaths, clipped in with a
marvellously indented shore-line of a hundred
leagues, Malicoota is a single pearl.
F.M.
HERSDIA'S SONNETS
There is formal propriety in the American gift
of a complete translation of Heredia’s sonnets
(Sonnets from the Trophies of Jose-Maria de
Heredia, rendered into English by Edward
Robeson Taylor : San Francisco, Paul Elder &
Co., 3rd edn.) Heredia descends from one of
the Spanish conquerors who wrote with their
swords the epic of the New World. His father,
a distinguished Cuban poet, published a single
volume of Spanish verse in New York, demanding
“le long fremissement ” of Cuban palms above
the abyss of Niagara, and pleading for Cuban
freedom in an invocation of the Fourth of July.
Thus the cordial understanding (or misunder-
standing) between America and Heredia springs
from generations before that of the French writer
and his translator.
That French writer, Heredia the younger, was
born (as it is said) at Santiago de Cuba in 1842 ;
and how his father, according to precise authori-
ties, “died at Toluca, Mexico, May 12, 1839,” is
a matter that may puzzle a Quaker. Heredia’s
mother was of French family, and he came in boy-
hood to receive a French education, to reside
(with occasional voyages) at Paris, and to sit at the
feet of Leconte de Lisle on the shoulder of Par-
nassus. He lived half-a-century before publishing,
like his father, a single volume of verses ; but the
composition of the 118 sonnets, which form the
larger and more important part of this small
volume, represented the slow labour of thirty
years. As a somewhat aggrieved critio has
pointed out, French poets are usually more pro-
ductive —from necessity, if not by choice or inspi-
ration. Only 118 sonnets in thirty years 1 Say
four for every year : one for. each season of the
year. Here surely was opportunity for “funda-
mental brain work.”
Heredia gives it: his sonnets have been medi-
tated well: he is the French master of the sonnet.
One after another they pass in splendid pageant:
a legend of the centuries related with all the con-
cision that Hugo lacked. Their colour, their so-
nority, are obvious attributes. To the eye they
appear like some brilliant tropical plant, its
forgeous leaves glistening with a metallic lustre.
'o the ear they may suggest the falling clash of
the old Conquistadore’s armour in a marble hall.
Each is struck like a brilliant medal into perfect
form ; and as the coin outlasts the city, so it is
possible that the miniatures of Heredia may outlive
the sprawling grandeur of Hugo. In the history
of the French Parnasse, Heredia may be com-
pared to the Arabian genie before he had been
freed from the antique vase that was his prison;
Hugo to the same genie when he rose in a turmoil
of smoke to fill the sky. That Hugo’s power is
greater than Heredia’s one cannot affirm with
assurance. It is more vast, more manifest, and
(in the eyes of the next century) that may bb all.
With the years since 1893 Heredia’s fame cer-
tainly has not lessened. His magnificence of form
was so overpowering that at first critical stress
was laid entirely there ; but now it seems realised
that behind the form there is a poetic substance
more vital and inspiring than was originally
agreed, and that much that glitters may be the
true gold of poesy. Grandiose the manner of
Heredia is plainly, yet by dint of concentration
grandiose can become the grand. To read Here-
dia once is to marvel at his majesty : to read him
twice and thrice is to receive an abiding impres-
sion of his monarchy, He is a model for all the
lax Latins, building in sonnets better than they
know.
E. R, Taylor, who has attempted that task of
Hercules or of young Rossetti, the translation of
Heredia’s sonnets into English, deserves this
praise at least: that his almost inevitable failure
is lit here and there by gleams of success that
may enthrall readers with the original. To re-
create Heredia in English, if that were possible,
needs almost as much time as was taken in the
original creation, Taylor has been able to give
spare time only, and most of his lines and forms
are still inadequate, needing the labour of new
years to polish them into something like ideal
justice. Yet by whiles one meets a version which
is not without its hint of pristine glory, and in
any case the attempt is highly interesting to
students. If in the nature of things such efforts
must err, one can extol the makers for their
courage, and join in tlieir intimate delight when
favourable fortune has lifted even one line, one
word, into felicity. To those who cannot appre-
ciate Heredia in his French, it may be said that
Taylor’s translation does exhibit in English his
subjects, and gives an aspect of the manner in
which they are treated.
For the pleasure of comparison, we quote
Taylor’s version of a single sonnet, linking it with
versions made by a Maorilander and an Aus-
tralian.
A UNE VILLE MORTE.
Cartagena de Indias, 1588-1583-1697 .
Morne Ville, jadis reine des Oceans !
Aujourd’hui le requin poursuit en paix lesscombres
Et le nuage errant allonge seul des ombres
Sur ta rade oh roulaient les galions grants.
Depuis Drake et l’assaut des Anglais mderdants,
Tes murs ddsempards croulent en noirs ddcombres
Et, comme un glorieux collier de perles sombres,
Des boulets de Pointis montrent les trous bdants.
Entre le ciel qui brule et la nm? qui moutonne,
Au somnolent soleil d’un midi monotone,
Tu songes, 6 Guerrifere, aux vieux Conquistadors ;
Et dans l’dnervement des nuits chaudes et calmes,
Bergant ta gloire dteinte, 6 Citd, tu t’endors
Sous les palmiers, au long frdmissement des palmca.
J. M. de Heredia.
TO A DEAD CITY.
City deject, the Queen whom seas obeyed 1
Unhindered now the shark pursues its prey,
And where the giant galleons proudly lay
Naught but some wandering cloud now casts a shade.
Since Drake was here, since faithless Briton’s raid,
Thy walls deserted moulder in decay,
And, like grand collar gloomed by pearls of gray,
Show gaping holes by Pointis’ bullets made.
Between the burning sky and foaming sea,
To drowsefui sun’s noontide monotony,
Thou dream’st, O Warrior, of thy conquering men ;
And in the languorous evenings warm and calm,
Cradling thy glory lost, O City, then
Thou sleep’st to long-drawn rustling A the palm.
E. R. Taylor.
Sad city, ancient sovereign of the seas,
Now unpursued the shark may seek his prey,
And only fleeting shadows float to-day
On waves where giant galleons rocked at ease.
Prom Drake’s rough hand, his rovers wild and stark,
Thy shattered, blackened ramparts crumble yet,
And, sombre pearls in glorious circle set,
Gape the grim muzzles of thy cannon dark.
Between wide skies that burn, white seas that foam,
Neath sleeping noonday’s weary sultry dome,
’Dream, lady, of thy proud Conquistadors ;
Or lulled by sighing, Swaying leaves of palm,
Brooding o ’er glories vanished from thy shores,
Rest in thy tropic night of languid calm.
IF. P. Reeves.
Sad city, O once the sea-queen, undismay’d
The shark may chase the scomber o’er thy bay,
And where of old the giant galleons lay
Only the wandering cloud extends its shade.
Since hither Drake led England's heretic raid
Thy walls are heap’d in ruin, or display
Like to black pearls ranged for the neck’s array
The yawning holes that Pointis’ cannons made,
When from the blazing sky the hard noons press
With weariness of heat, 0 Warrioress !
Thou dreamest of the old Conquistadores ;
And slumberest in the close nights’ languorous calms
Folding unto thy breast thy fallen glories,
Beneath the palm-trees, the long-shivering palms.
C. J. Dremian.
* —-——
Thanks to Sr. Givens’ zeal, the game and play
of copyright becomes more interesting than chess.
Sr. Givens’ zeal is like a star, and dwells apart:
one would not in the least disparage it. Unluckily
the weight of knowledge is on the side of Sr.
Keating, and Sr. Keating contends for the
foreigner against Australia.
The Senate wondered why, on 12 October, Sr.
Givens’ amendment was accepted so easily by his
opponent; and reactionary senators, conscien-
tiously doing their best to injure Australia, voted
I7o with some indignation. The position’s curi-
osity is shown in this : that quite possibly it was
the democrats who gave the reactionary vote, and
the sticks-in-the-mud who gave the progressive
vote. Original clause 13/2 now runs (with Sr.
Givens’ amendment in italics):
2. Copyright shall subsist in every book, whether the
author is a British subject or not, which has been printed
from type set up in Australia or plates made therefrom ,
or from plates or negatives made in Australia in cases
where type is not necessarily used , and has, after the
commencement of this Act, been first published in Aus-
tralia before or simultaneously with its first publication
elsewhere.
Sr. Millen could not understand why Sr. Keat-
ing accepted this amendment with a generous
acceptance. There are several reasons obvious.
In the first place, Sr. Keating had to remove
numerous blots here pointed out (caused, for
example, by copyright being given to any foreign
author who threw a book through the post at
some obscure place in Australia as soon
published). Sr. Givens’ amendment a
means of removing blots without loss of dign 7.
leaving Sr. Keating, indeed, m the pleasant guise
of a man who confers a favour.
[The necessity for registration simultaneous with pubU-
cation remains, and should certainly be secu e y
Representatives.] .
In the second place, Sr. Keating dished the
opposition.
For, look you, Sr. Givens’ amendment goes
beyond the safe line of Canadian preceden , it
goes too far. Not too far, maybe, if Sr. Givens
intends to devote the remainder of his senatorial
life to making his amendment valid ; yet too far
for practical purposes. After 37 years of struggle
Canada has succeeded only in compromising with
Imperial legislation ; and the Canadian public
and Parliament have exhibited more persistence
than this country seems likely to show. Canada
gives the foreign author a month s grace before he
need reprint his book in order to secure Cana-
dian copyright. The Commonwealth Bill gives
14 days only, though Australia is three weeks
farther from the foreign centres than Canada
is. The tendency of legislation is to extend
the period of grace. It is _ recognised that
there is a point beyond which the foreign
author will not go, even when he is kicked;
because practically he cannot go. I he U .M. Act
of March 3, 1905, gives the foreign author 12
months’ grace for printing in the United btates
(provided his book is in a language other than
English) and secures him copyright during those
12 months and thereafter. It seem* within
probability that this U.S. privilege may be
extended by-and-by to books in the English
language.
Thus Sr. Givens, if his amendment is to be
efficient, has against him certainly precedent, and
possibly the merits of the case. _ We can quite
well afford to give British and foreign authors 12
months’ grace for printing or reprinting
in Australia, if thereby we make it more certain
that they will print or reprint eventually.
Canada and America both have found that they
must yield a little in order to conquer; but Sr.
Givens’ amendment stands stark and uncom-
promising, or would stand if it were efficient.
As it is not efficient, and will not be until the
Foreign Reprints Act is applied to Australia and
a Customs duty is levied on new books imported
hither, all that Sr. Givens has done in this
connection makes it harder to reach his end. If
he had only known, he was defeating his own
wishes. Sr. Keating knew, but naturally Sr.
Keating would not tell.
J*
The Canadian compromise, which does actu-
ally bring British and foreign books to
Canada to be reprinted, insists only on
reprint. The type need not be set in Canada, so
that Canadian compositors need not be employed.
Sr. Givens’ amendment insists on the employment
of Australian compositors, which in theory is a
point better, and in practice a point worse; since
it adds greatly to the difficulty of securing the
supplementary legislation by which alone Sr.
Givens’ amendment can be made efficient. One
fears Sr. Givens was injudicious. It was inju-
dicious to overstep the safe line of Canadian pre-
cedent. Within that line we have an overwhelm-
ing case: beyond it the casd ior the other side
may overwhelm us.
What is the effect of Sr. Givens’ amendment as
it stands ? The profit to Australia is practically
none, and there is even loss in the greater
difficulty of securing possible profit. We will
wager Sr. Givens twopence, against his seat in
the Senate : that standing by itself his' amend-
ment will not bring to Australia one book that
would not be printed here otherwise. Indeed, it
is a question whether standing by itself Sr. Givens’
amendment will not drive Australian books to
London for printing, thus securing the very object
which senators who opposed him apparently crave
for. Under Imperial law a book printed in
London starts on its career of copyright in Aus-
tralia independently of the Commonwealth Bill,
and it need not even be registered in Australia in
order to have practical protection. If it be regis-
tered in Australia, it secures Australian copyright
without performance of any of the industrial
devoirs which Sr. Givens presumably imagined he
was imposing. As the Bill stands, Sr. Keating and
the foreign-trader are triumphant, and Australia
is in the soup.
In A White Roof-Tree (and other stories un-
acknowledged on the title-page by the disingenuous pub-
lishers) Ethel Turner completes her baker’s dozen of books
printed. Certainly this popular author deserves a word
congratulatory. In her limited field she is among the
most successful, and her persistence is a rare Australian
quality. Apart from their interest for children and
mothers, many of these books are admirably written ;
and the matter is innocent, gay sometimes, and usually
devoid of sentimentality—that curse of literature for the
young. The publishers should commemorate success by
banishing from future volumes the cheap and often nasty
English illustrator, since it seems that Australian books
can be fitly illustrated only by Australians.
One is happier with “ coogle.” In a Vic.
court the other day, a customer sued a priest for the
return of certain moneys paid for certain masses for
uncertain souls, etc), and alleged to have been misapplied.
The priest won the case ; and it is mentioned merely
because the customer declared that one day he had other
moneys which he did not disclose to a priest for fear of
being’ “ coogied ” out of them (Argus report). What did
the customer mean ? Is coogied a variant of cudgelled ?
or does its sly, wriggling, insinuating shape represe .t a
blandishing idea ?
(Friends are implored not to write more than two
columns in courteous explanation.)
“ With regard to Salvation Army immigrants,
it has been stated in an Ontario paper that they were an
absolute failure. Most of them were not physically strong
enough, and had come out expecting an easy life, which,
of course, they have not got. Whether they will ever re-
pay the Army the fare that was advanced to them is a
question.”—-A.L., writing from Brandon,. Manitoba, to a
Lond. paper ; Sept. 1.
A.a.s.


ħ
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
- SYDNEY.
FUR SKINS
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. v^SYDINEY.
MICK SIMMONS for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
ii
J n ]
mm
m
Postage on 1 Bat,
Is. N.S.W. ;
MICK
SIMMONB.
CRICKET.
MICK
SIMMONS.
MEN’S BATS.
CLAPSHAW’S Cane. £* «? SdfloL ; Spiral
WISDEN’S All Cane, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d ; LORD S DRIVER, 17s 6d , CRA
EXCELLER, 21s j Selected, 25s _t, , ttt-dtt i,'nn r vi. - 1> 99a fwi
COBBETT’S All Cane 10s 6d,11s 6d ; S DR!VER, 20s JUBILEE ED CONQUEROR
WARSOP’S All Cane, 12s 6d; Cane and Rubber, 16s, 18s 6d ; IMPROVED GONyUKKUK,
SYKE’S All’ Cane, 8s 6d; “A 1 ” Cane and Rubber, 14s 6d ; YORKSHIRE DRIVERS,
SHAW All Cane, 8s 3d, 8s 6d, 11s, 14s 6d ; Cane and Whalebone,
l2s 6d, 15s ; “. ALL ENGLANIV’IBs; I^ERC^4g VE ’ 198 6d
DARK’S All Cane 10s 6d ■ LORD’S DRIVER, 17s 6d , CORK HANDLE, 24s
NICOLL’S Automatic Handles, 15s 6d, 18s 6d » Rubber or Chamois Covered, 22s
BRYAN’S “ PRESIDENT,” 18s : “PRESIDENT SELECTED, 21s
G. G. HEARNE’S All Cane, 14s f; “AUTO-
GUNN & MOORE’S All Cane, 8s 6d ; CANNON, 21s, W.G. Selected, 255, auiu
pil APfT ” 27a
STUART SURRIDGE All Cane, 13s 6d, 17s 6d; I RA qpw(?t at V DRTVFR
LILLYWHITE & FROWD’S All Cane, 16s 6d, Ws ; SPECIAL.DRIVER, 22s 6d
SPECIALLY SELECTED CANE and DOUBLE RUBBER, 12s 6d
YOUTHS’ BATS.
Sizes 3 4 5 6
HALF CANE .. 3/6 4/- 4,9 5/3
ALL CANE.. .. 4/- 4/9 5/3 6/-
SELECTED .. 6/6 8/6 9/6 10/6
Sizes 1 2 3 4 5
PLAIN .. 9d 1/- 1/3 1/6 2/-
POLISHED 1/- 1/3 1/6 2/- 2/6
6 7
2/6 4/-
3/-
SIX SEAM
LEATHER BALLS.
PRACTICE, 5 Joz., 9d ; MATCH, sJoz., Is 3d.
Standard Match, sjoz., 2s 6d.
Extra Special, Gut Sewn, 3s 6d.
The above Balls are good value for use on
turf wickets.
“M.S.” Special Match, Gut Sewn, 4s 6d, 6s 3d.
For use on hard wickets these Balls cannot
be equalled in price or quality.
DUKE’S Practice, s|oz., 5s ; P.K.D., 6s 3d.
Match, sJoz., 5s 6d ; Best, 7s 6d.
WISDEN’S Match, 4s 3d ; Crown, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
COMPOS.
Boys, 3d, 6d, 9d, 1/- each.
Men’s, I/-, 1/8,2 3, 3/-, 3/6, 4/3 each
Postage on 1 Ball, 3d.
h
STUMPS WITH BAILS.
Men’s Brass Top, Steel Shod, 5/9, 7/9, 8/6 set
Men’s Revolving’ Top, Steel Shod, 10/6,12/6 set
Men’s Ash and Blackwood, 2/-, 3/-, 3/9 set
Youths, 6d, 1/-, 1/6, 2/6, 3/-, 4/6 set
LEG GUARDS.
Men’s White Canvas, 4/6 pair
Men’s Tan (continuous straps) 5/11,7/9 pr.
Men’s Skeleton Tan, 10/6 pair
Youths’ White, 4/6 ; Tan, 5/- pair
GAUNTLETS.
Men’s Buff, 3/11; Tan, 5/- pair
Men’s Gold Cape, 6/6, 9/6 pair
Men’s, with Black Rubber, palm, 7/6, 9/6 pa,ir .
Men’s Black Rubber, padded finger tips, 11/-, 14/6 pair
BATTING GLOVES.
Men’s Buff, felt protection, 4/6 pair
Men’s Buff, rubber protection, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6 pair
Patent Surry Shield, 4/- each
illustrated list free.
FULL
eMi/
s 10
The Great
MONTE
CARLO
GAME.
Perfection of
Mechanical
ingenuity.
Finest Quality
Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert).
Price—
10/6
POST
FREE.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Nextshipmentdue
in about 6 weeks.
i^\
■>Ja/ j
PUNCHING
BALLS.
Swinging- Ball, com-
plete, with best
quality Red Rub-
ber Bladder—7s 6d,
11s 6d,155, 18s, 20s,
21s, 255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with
double rubber fit-
tings, complete—
15s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s
6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Oord for fix-
ing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rub-
ber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball
Swivels —Is 6d, 2s,
2s 6d, 3s 6d each
'' bERKV
3/6
(=>
Hanbicao
51-
SIANbARb
7/3
9IZ
JLO3SV
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d inter-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size .6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. •• 12s 6d
Al 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
BOXING GLOVES.
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.W. ; Is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “ C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, Its 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; 60z.,
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
PP Illustrated Sports, Fishing Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free
£3
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
ĥ
ħ
h
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Sietnen’s
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; W'eight, about 71b.
ĥ
Folding Orchard Cun,
41 OS-
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 410 g. side lever
action, finest Siemen’s Steel 24in. Barrel,
case hardened locks, length over all 38Jin,
weight about 41bs., Walnut Stock
Postage on 1 Gun, 1/9 N.S.W. ;
3/2 Interstate.
35s
We can now
supply these
guns with
skeleton
stocks same
price.
MAINE
RIFLE
The Celebrated
ħ
"THE MAINE"
Pifle
Shewing Pi fie Apart.
fitted with Sporting-Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, 18in. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2flb.
h
• POSTAGE ON RIFLE —N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gan, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding- Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
ĥ
“The Reliable
£G 12S 6d
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE ” D.B.B.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12-
gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels, both choke, side
lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with
Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for 2|in. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR
ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
£l2 12s
MICK SIMMONS.
.22..
WINCHESTER
AUTOMATIC
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre, fires 10
shots in four seconds, weight _ _ . _
w £4 10s .
Postage : N.S.W., 2/- ; Inter-State, 3/8.
•ooox *-/w *• ooi ‘9 z
MICK BIMMONB.
wz
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. &E. fore-end, AQg Postage:
pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. .. N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
MICK SIMMONS.
e 3
t AO
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifle
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, about 31b.
Postage : N.S.W., 1/3 ; Inter-State, 2/2.
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V
Sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2}lb.
Postage, Is 3d N.S.W. ; 2s 2d Inter-State.
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 3£lb. Postage : N.S.W., 1/6 ; Inter-State, 2/8.
15s.
18/6
16/6
ħ
CONICAL BALI
h
ĥ
ħ
h
AMMUNITION,
Gun Cartridges.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
„ 22 Long
„ 22 Long Rifle .
„ 22 Extra Long.
$lOO $lOOO
.. Is Od 9s 6d
.. Is Id 10s Od
.. Is 3d 12s Od
.. Is 6d 13s Od
.. 2s Od 18s Od
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Sesurity or Freahold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
nph»nt!jf Q n ‘i „o'„ P Ji£ ° n ® d > Pastoral ant * Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our'new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fne.
Dnectois Thomas Lutlejohn, Esq.,Chairnvin; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
&sq. , senator the Hon. J. r. YV alker ; James Burns, Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ;F. E Winchcombe, Esq.,
Mana - er and Actuary — Richard Teece* F.1.A.. F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. * ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIONT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery. SYDNEY.
Model 1904 .22 Caliber Rifle
ĥ
A . BIG GUN
FOR A LITTLE MONEY
This new Winchester Single Shot Rifle, designed to handle
.22 Long and .22 Short rimfire cartridges, is the biggest value
in a gun ever offered. It is a take-down fitted with a heavy
21-inch round barrel and Schuetzen stock, and has the cele-
brated Winchester bolt action, which has been so widely imi-
tated. Its low price, simple and serviceable features recom-
mend it to all lovers of shooting. Ask your dealer about it.
EE
E
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel,
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach. Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
<
o m
ac tn
PUI
u
a
ħ
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
Capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prtpaitd only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.. ‘ FRUIT SALT * WORKS, LONDON. ENG.,
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c„ everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,^;,
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
11l HI TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Wfiak Me " ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure tine Nerves, Debility, Dost Power, Restore Dost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness.
Special Powerful Double
Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing' Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
A GOOD
REPORT
From Camperdown.
The Case of
Mr. E. J. SWORDS.
(By a Special Reporter.)
A condition of affairs favourable to
all sorts of ailments that had been in
existence a good while received an ef-
fective check, in connection with which
a newspaper man paid a visit of en-
quiry to Mr. Edward John Swords’
business premises, 150 Missenden-road,
Camperdown, and received the follow-
ing reply
“Yes,” said Mr. Swords, “I can eas-
ily tell you all that is of importance
in connection with the illness 1 escap-
ed from in 1896, when 1 was living at
Trangie, on the great-western line —a
yery hot place, too.”
“How long were you residing there?”
“Three years. Quite long enough to
ascertain that it was principally the
heat which was knocking me out, with
the sedentary nature of my trade,
which is that of a saddler. 1 got to
feel so much out of sorts that 1 could
not stand being indoors!, so 1 had to
leave my work and go travelling. The
clmnge seemed to give me a lift for a
while, but it was not long before 1 got
into my old state again, and as time
wore on my health went from bad to
worse. When 1 got up of a morning 1
felt fearfully languid, and 1 pictured
each day as it started as a long,
dreary term that would never end, and
how I would get through it I did not
know. But even when they terminated
I was no better off, as nightfall only
meant so much restlessness that I did
not know what to do to put in the
time till morning, and when it arrived
and I had to get up, I felt so weak
and low-spirited that 1 did not care
what happened. My internal disorders
caused such a bitter taste to come to
my mouth that on arising I often felt
inclined to retch, but 1 couldn’t, and 1
was never prepared to sit down and
eat a breakfast like a man should do.
As soon as I sat to the table, and the
food came in sight, a sickly sensation
came to my stomach, and 1 would
have to get up and leave
untouched, but, later in the day, 1 was
generally more successful in eating a
little—very little, because my appetite
was weak —but it didn’t make any dif-
ference, as my digestion was gone al-
together.”
“What were your feelings like when
you had eaten ?"
“Dreadful ! 1 can hardly describe
them. My chest had such a sensation
in it that I don’t know what to say.
1 know 1 felt that if I turned round
quiciuv it would break in two, and the
way I sometimes had to gasp for
breath would have made you tlnnk I
was asthmatical. Then I also suffered
from cramps in the stomach, caused,
no doubt, by wind that gathered there
from the decayed food, and if 1 had to
go through the same again, I would
much rather die. Many a time I ac-
tually sang out with pain, which also
used to find its way down my right
side, and almost cripple me. Heaven
knows, I was a martyr !”
“Did you find your weight reduced
at all ?”
“I fell away terribly—from eleven
stone four pounds down to about ten
stone. Just merely a skeleton of what
I had been ; and what made me feel my
afflictions so greatly was hardly being
able to move without feeling incorn
venience. 1 have done a good deal of
rough riding in my time, and used to
enjoy It, but when I was ill. I couldn’t
get on the quietest animal living with-
out the motion hurting me, for be-
sides what I’ve told you, I had ’such
intense pain across my back that I was
compelled to walk bent up like an old
man.”
‘‘H° w long were you ailing like this’”
‘For fully twelve months., and you
had better believe that during that
thus did not continue suffering for
the want of taking physic—no, indeed.
1 took a great many bottles of medi
cines, only, I’m sorry to say, to lind
that my money had gone for nothing,
in some instances, to bo made worse
than I was before. There was one lot
of advertised pills I took which made
me feel that 1 was going to die, I felt
so ill, and after them, thank heaven ! I
procured some Clements Tonic. Ah !
now I soon wished I had taken that
remedy before. What a year of tor-
ture it would have saved me, but it is
130 use regretting-. I’m lucky to have
got off like I did, and there is no
doubt that Clements Tonic is entitled
to all the credit, for that was the only
remedy that could do me any good.
Why, if you could form an idea of the
intensity of the headaches from which
1 regularly suffered you would say that
nothing but a miracle could have
cured them, and if that’s so then Cle-
ments Tonic must be a miraculous me-
dicine, for it cured mine. Besides this
it also put an end to the giddy turns
I used to have. Upon my word, at one
time I could not stoop down without
feeling as if I would surely fall over,
and I have often been sitting on a
chair and expecting to come a cropper
every second owing to the same dis-
agreeable sensation. My sight had
been very dim for a good while, my
eyes feeling swollen, and as if they had
a scum over them ; my tongue used to
be white with fur, too, yet Clements
Tonic sot all these defects to rights,
even when all other things had been
put aside as useless.”
“You mentioned that you had done
some rough-riding in your time. You
require good nerves for that sort of
business, don’t you ?”
“I should rather say so ; but I had
been without them for quite twelve
months previous to using Cloments
Tonic, and would never have had good
nerves again but for that remedy. I
had not only been so nervous that I
could not keep myself from shaking,
but even my mind was easily upset by
any noises, which made me exceeding-
ly irritable, and I was always fearing
some kind of evil. The greater part of
my nights were spent in restlessness,
for I was always thinking, thinking,
and when at last I dozed into slum-
ber, the dreams I had were awful—for
all the world like the nightmare. Well, it
was a happy day for me when I de-
cided to buy Clements Tonic, as it put
quite a different complexion upon the
whole of my career. ! t imparted more
strength to my nerves than thev ever
had before, and there’s nothing in the
world like that remedy to make one
sleep and eat. In a few weeks I
couldn’t locate a pain of any sort
about my body, and the best of it was
that I was gaining strength and
weight all the time.”
‘‘Did Clements Tonic cure you tho-
roughly V’
“Mv cure couldn’t have been more
complete, and 1 trust my experience
may be an object lesson to all who
require treatment. In any case you
may publish this narrative in any form
you desire.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, EDWARD JOHN SWORDS, of No. 150 Mis-
senden Road, Campcrdown, In the State of New
South Wales. Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that 1 have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing- of five folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and that ic contains atnd
is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to nublish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving anv payment ; and 1 make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown this
fifttr day of September, one thousand nine
hundred and four, before me,
E. BARNES, J.P.
FREE
h
mmti
A CASKET OF
JEWELLERY
FREE!
GOLD PATTERN RINGS, BROOCHES, PINS, PENDANTS, LINKS LOCKETS
AND LOVE TOKENS GIVEN AWAY!
addr , ess we will {<™d FREE ia Packets ot our
ENAMEL TOOI H POWDER and the same number of Coupons. Dispose of these
.2 Packets among your friends at the nominal price of 6d. each ; and to each rurchaser
?-D a J >a n-i glve one Cou P on > which entitles that person to an Antiseptic Tooth Brush
fKLb" Ihe continued use of this powder soon induces the growth of a Brilliant
™ , e k nai ttel Surface on the teeth, makes the gums hard and healthy, and imparts
a delicious fragrance to the breath.
WE DON’T ASK YOU TO TRUST US. WE TRUST YOU.
Return us the money obtained from the Sale of our Tooth Powder, and we will at
once forward you, FREE and Carriage paid, any Five Articles you may select from the
list of handsome premiums which we send with the Powder; thus you obtain a
VERITABLE CASKET OF JEWELLERY FREE. WRITE TO-DAY
ĥ
ħ
The Dental Specialty Go.
Pitt St., Sydney.
n
ARE YOU BALD?-
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, I will guarantee that
CAPILIiA HAIR TONIC will make that “down” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Cam,la. 2/6 a bottle;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. 0.
Richards, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Not every
woman
can a:'ord
to have
a maid.
Not many 4
would(
want one
around, any-
way. But you
certainly can
afford to have
Ayer’s Hair Vigor;
and most women would
be greatly improved by
it, too. It means so much
to have long, rich, heavy
hair; soft, smooth, glossy hair. And
this is just the kind of hair you may
have, if you wish it. If you wish all
the deep, rich color of youth restored
to your hair,
h
Mger’s
flair Vigor
will certainly satisfy you.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S, A,
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
ĥ
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HEREIN Cr S.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . . .
“ Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“ Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a ia Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
Loudon, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY : 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
ħ
EftSsS
!
. i.
DAY
NIGHT
h
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says : " ‘ Viyella ’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From, the leading Drapers.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
ROTHWELL’S Ltd
Only Address: EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
The Best Value 8/6 TERAI HAT
in the Commonwealth. 9/6 post paid. All Shades.
BRISBANE’S BIG HAT STORE. [2
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
tree from Bulletin office, ss.
ĥ
“For
30 Years
I have used Bonnington’s
Irish Moss for Coughs
and Colds, and any irrita-
tion of the bronchial tubes.
It always gives relief."
That is a plain, straightforward statement.
We could supply hundreds such. Cough
remedies have come and gone, but
Bonnington’s
Irish Moss
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of sales will not sell a remedy if it is nob
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BONNINGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sake
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care*
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
“BONNINGTON’S.”
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited
Merchant Drapers and Tailors, importers,
Manufacturers and Retailers.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING (Hand-Made)—
TROUSERS in Eancy Worsteds, Latest Shades, Light-Weight Summer Materials, Made to
Measure, 18/6, 21/-, 22/6, 25/6, 27/6, 30/- per pair
TROUSERS in Washing.. Goods, for Summer Wear—Brown !
Plain and Fancy Crash, 13/6 ; Plain Brown Duck, 12/6; Striped Duck, 15/6,
Tussore Silk, 18/6 per pair. „ ~, m t . .
RIDING- TROUSERS in West of England Whipcords Saddle Twists, Buckskins,
Bedford Cords and Venetian Twists, 27/6, 30/-, 32/6 per pair.
The Sailorman’s blue breeches have more of Cloth than cut;
There are Dutch-built tailor-trousers like a double water-butt;
Try Finney’s Faultless Breeches—just try them once, I beg—
They give Curve to the Slab-sidedest, and set-off a Handsome Beg.
Edward & Adelaide Sts., Brisbtine, Queensland
•pn **«*oq v HanvQNvaa *o
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
ham^nglaiidi
Works : Bis*min«rl
s
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pem.il.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Ser.es.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
HONESTLY WORTH A GUINEA!
XMAS, 1905. pi be Ready in ||ovember.
‘Jlclson S ijis dimes’
Vice-Admiral Lord CHARLES BERESFORD
and H. W. WILSON,
With over 100 SUPERB ILLUSTRATIONS.
Published in celebration of the Nelson Centennial, and appealing
directly to the National patriotism of every one of British birth
throughout the Empire. The life of the greatest Admiral of the
past, by the Greatest Admiral of the present. Also
3 large PRESENTATION PLATES
(Each Printed in 13 Colours),
in the best and most artistic style of the Chromo-Lithographic Art, viz
1. “ Saluting the Admiral ”
By Professor A. W. HOLDEN.
28% x 18yi inches.
2. “ Sweethearts ” By RRfd. MORGAN. 23 *nn inches.
3. “ the Jdother ”
By Madame HENRIETTE RONNER
19% x 13% inches.
THE WHOLE ENTIRELY PRINTED IN ENGLAND.
Sold by all Booksellers. Wholesale Agents for Australasia —
GORDON & GOTCH.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The Wind and the Rose.
If you were as the rose, love, and I were as the
wind,
No swathe about your bosom your loveliness
would bind ;
On bending stalk and slender you to my breast
would lean,
Your swooning heart lie open, no fleshly veil
between;
You never were averted, nor ever were unkind
If you were as the rose, love, and I were as the
wind.
If you were as the wind, love, and I were as the
lose,
My petals were the wanton of every breath that
blows;
My beauty you could see not, nor I your voice
could hear
If’t sighed when I was lovely but laughed when
I was sere.
Oh, we were gone with summer that all too quickly
goes.
If you were as the wind, love, and I were as the
rose.
If you were as the rose, love, and I were as the
wind,
Though never you could hear me, and I to you
were blind,
Yet lavish on my pinions your sweetness should
be borne,
Till lovers dreamt ’mid roses, but never felt the
thorn ;
Though Autumn see you withered, the Spring new
buds should find,
It you were as the rose, love, and I were as the
wind.
If you were as the wind, love, and I were as the
rose,
Your life were spent in sighing and mine in fleet-
ing glows;
Mine were no dream, no thrilling to feel your lips
on mine ;
What, then, were all my beauty, and what your
voice divine ?
What spell could break the rigor of passionless
repose
If you were as the wind, love, and I were as the
rose ?
If you were as the rose, love, and I were as the
. wind
Ah, never could I hear you, and you to me were
blind ;
In summer we would glory though summer quickly
goes
If you were as the wind, love, and I were as the*
rose ; ' >
No swathe about your bosom your loveliness
would bind
If I were as the rose, love, and you were as the
wind !
MAORILAND.
JOHANNES G. ANDERSEN.
A Boat Song.
Over the bosom of waters deep,
That sigh as they turn in their dreamless sleep,
Kissed by winds, and wrapped in light,
Sad as the morrow, but sweet as to-night,
We float as a song that the wind wafts by,
As a flower on the stream or a cloud in the sky,
Making the little waves break and flow
Softly and silently as we go.
This is the saddest of all sad lights,
This is the sweetest of all sweet nights.
Faintly elusive the joys of it seem,
As the half-lost words in a long-past dream.
Drifting we follow the virgin moon
In the shining steps of her silver shoon.
Making the riverside rushes sigh
And restlessly rustle as we go by.
What though this hour is wed to its grave,
As dawn is to dark or as wind is to wave ?
What though no memory of it may last,
When this joy is gone with the joys that are past,
We count not the cost of each kiss as it dies,
We float to Love’s time and the light of our eyes,
Making the envious white stars glow
More softly and silver-white as we go.
TAS.
JEUNESSE.
The Cheese Conference.
The little mites that ate and sprawled
Within a cheese of ancient air,
A mighty convocation called
Of all their best and cheesely wise,
To settle how it did arise
That they, and their great cheese, were there.
Most learnedly they all discussed
How their vast, noble, mitey world
Grew from a particle of dust ;
How, in a power magnetic held,
Its parts together were compelled ;
How it from other cheese was hurled.
With argument intense and vain
They settled when, and why, and how;
They spoke, refuted, spoke again ;
Each had his own unbending plan,
How they and it and all began—
But none of them perceived the cow.
And while each scientific wit
That in that Parliament did crawl
Disclosed his plan and proof of it,
A boy, descending on the scene,
Cleared the supporting platter clean
Of cheese, and mites, and proof, and all!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


(PROFESSIONAL!
Crackajack Professional, 3/_
Crackajack"
MOUTH ORGANS.
Sf * gygßßljSS
1
Crackajack Senior, 2/-
The covers are of heavy brass, heavily plated,
and artistically engraved. It is impossible" to
fully describe these instruments and their
musical qualities. They must be teen and
used to be appreciated. We can recommend
“/—'RACKATACKS” present not
only the very Latest Im-
provements but are unquestion-
ably t le Best and Most Beautiful
Toned Mauth Organs made.
The Reeds are of best bell
metal alloy, tuned by experts.
Crackajack Junior, 1/6
them as being superior to
all other Mouth Organs in
appearance, quality and
tone.
The frames are of thoroughly seasoned hardwood,
the reed plates are solid brass, and every reed)
tongue is securely riveted. The Tone is perfected)]
by a system of voicing the reeds, which makes it richjj
and powerful in volume, and the reeds are subjected**
to a process of special tuning, so that each note
throughout the entire register is absolutely perfect.
c^.-js^iSiSSiTg
|«#TBOSS CRACKER^!
Boss Cracker, 1/-
DEPT. L.
ALLAN & CO,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
e-ABET {©i
Crackajack Cadet, 6d.
SING A SONG OF SYSTEMS.
Suffering Keen .
Laxatine.
Constipation .
Jubilation.
LAXATINE
is a delectable, lollie-like, lozenge
laxative. It is not a violent pur-
gative, but a pleasant and perfect aperient, cleansing the
system of all impurities. TRY IT—IT’S GOOD.
All Chemists sell Laxatine. ONE SHILLING per Bex.
m
SST
V-
& DIGESTIVE TAB 1
VEGESALIS
TABLE SALT
WHICH IS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
DOES NOT BLACKEN SILVER.
Does not Cake.
USE IT WHEN COOKING
VEGETABLES instead of
OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
Of Leading Storekeepers
Wholesale:
VEGESALIS Co., 2, Tower Royal, London, E.C.
ENGLAND. j
WATERGUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines A Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumas, fic» s £e<
Sole Agent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMIMG, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
EXPERIENCE TEACHES
■ THAT
NESTLE S MILK FOOD
IS A COMPLETE AND EASILY DIGESTED DIET FOR
fOC/* INFANTS and INVALIDS.
25 MILLIONS
From August, 1904, to August, 1905 (One Year),
in Australia alone, over 2\ Million Square Feet of
RUBEROID were used for Roofing and Dampcourse
purposes. These figures are mentioned merely to
show the confidence which Builders, Architects, and
the Public generally have in RUBEROID. In the
foundation it stands for permanent total exclusion
of damp. On the roof it means comfort and durability.
Time only proves the excellence of
RUBEROID.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Melbourne— Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd.
Adelaide—A. W. Sandford & Co.
Fremantle— J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
Launceston —The Tasmanian Woolgrowers’
Agency Co., Ltd.
Hobart —William Crosby & Co.
<7
m*
/


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.-No, 1341,
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1905.
Prick 6d.
MULGA BILL OF THE FUTURRE.-(A YELLOW FANCY.)
S'lV^ol^
■w for
\\ % tia^ion^ 1 y
Cefesfo l
Koch's
rf oui 'fs "fte
1 O
, °!J-
-oor V^ l ' ,:, ' rort ,
4dK
CoW-fW,
/
.z •• ir
p,j, v&« OvtWKTo«!; Sn^K«s..
i Kyoc'K'trp
cliQooe
F e (s^ev7i»7^
*’ '»m fitfricK 7/cverevce


XMAS NO., 1905.
A GENTS’ Orders are now being booked,
and should reach us not later than
20th NOVEMBER.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
" Australia for the A astral tons. ”
Printed and Published bv William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Ihe Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £i q q
Half-yearly ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Tioenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that, it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in JllacJe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-draivn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson ds Co., 38 Riebeck'Street, Cape-
toivn; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kono.— Brewer and Co., 33 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x llfin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
“ Posters ” will be attached to agents’ parcels if The
Bulletin is satisfied they ivill be displayed.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1905.
THE EXCESSIVE AFFABILITY OF
ALFRED DEAKIH.
The session of the Australian Parliament draws
near its end, and what has been done is hardly
worth mentioning. A too-affable gentleman named
Deakin is at the head of affairs, and out of his deep
anxiety to damage no one’s feelings, he has, to a
great extent, let things slide. What work has been
done during the session has been good, but there
is so pitifully little of it. The Commerce Bill, a
measure which simply provided for a little honesty
and fair-dealing in trade, took up—it is not easy to
remember how many weeks of the time of the
House of Representatives ; and other business
travels at the same pace. The majority in favor of
the Commerce Bill was large and solid, but in that
matter, as in others, the Opposition was resolved
that, if it couldn’t prevent majority rule, it would
at least prevent the majority doinganylargeamount
of business. By slow, lingering obstruction, by
interminable speeches, by innumerable amend-
ments, and by constant foolish remarks about a
quorum, a little gang of blatant talkers—almost
every man of them from New South Wales—fills
in time, till, to all intents and purposes, majority
rule goes overboard. The rowdy knot of obstruc-
tives professes that it does all this silly clatter and
tinkling foolishness owing to the unwise character
of the Government’s measures, but their wisdom
or unwisdom is a thing for the majority to decide,
and the divisions so far show that the great
majority is behind Prime Minister Deakin all the
time. The awful affability of Deakin is the
chief reason why, even with a majority, hardly
anything is done. The truculent minority which
has bailed up Australia trades on Deakin’s affa-
bility. There is a general understanding that
the House shall finish each week's work on Thurs-
day, and shall close the session somewhere
about November, and the minority reckons that if
it can fill in the interval, it can prevent the
.rovernment and the majority doing any work
worth mentioning. There would be a chance with
a I rime Minister whose lower jaw stood out like
the track-finder of a locomotive—a man who simply
&xid that so much work had to be done, even if the
House sat on Friday nights and Saturday nights,
and kept on doing so till March, and that the
obstructionists could either give up their week-end
visits to Sydney or let Bills be shunted through in
* vxn . sence. Such a Prime Minister, backed by
a Whip who would find a quorum or die in the
attempt, could do wonders—but Alfbed Deakin
is too affable.
* * * *
In its systematic blocking of business, in its
sourness, its mean cantankerousness, its volu-
bility, and its petty parish jealousies, the con-
tingent of members from Sydney and its sur-
roundings has been the curse and disgrace of
i a j Australian Parliament over which Deakin
sheds so much needless affability. For many
years the State Parliament of N.S.W. was the
dreadful example of the British empire, and it
sent its bad traditions to the Commonwealth
Legislature. It was a Parliament which toiled
not, neither did it spin—except narratives in the
smoking-room. It had so utterly lost the habit of
industry that for the past 20 years it has been
practically impossible to get it to deal with any
large, comprehensive measure on any subject-
close attention and sustained industry were
foreign to its nature. Until the Labor members
brought into it some element of sobriety and
decency, its drunks and its free fights were a
matter of world wide notoriety. Years ago a
Maoriland paper broke into savage verse about it
asking :
Is it lag-dom in the blood
Of a convict-gotten brood
Ever breaking- out in ribaldry with language loud and lewd ?
Or what is it that ails
These men of New South Wales
That they emulate the rhetoric of the bagnios and the
jails?
The Parliament about which that was written had
raised obstruction to the level of a science, and
brought liquor, language, scuffling, and the
neglect of business to the dignity of an art. It
was a Parliament which thought for 40 years
about bringing in a Local Government Bill, and
for 50 years about building a North Shore bridge,
and produced nothing out of all that thinking.
And even when intoxicated members ceased to
rush into the Speaker’s chair and sit there with
waste-paper baskets on their heads, it was still
an assemblage where the maximum of talk went
with the minimum of work. It sent its atmosphere
and its old bad practices to the Australian Parlia-
ment, and Alfbed Deakin is too affable to cope
with the evil.
* * * *
There are such a number of great things waiting
tobedone-if only Alfbed Deakin were not so
affable. There are two transcontinental railways
to be built. The Northern Territory is waiting to be
taken over and opened up. There is urgent need
f n ' a Federal graduated land-tax, heavy enough
break up the big estates all over the continent
and Tasmania, and make room for millions of new
settlers. There is a new tariff to be built—one
that will start new industries all over Australia,
and provide work for hundreds of thousands of
people. Then when the land is made avail-
a >le and the factories are provided, there is
urgent need for a big immigration policy to
fiirmsh men for the land and for the factories.
I here is a loud call for a better military system,
for better defences, for an Australian navy, for
steel works, for an ammunition factory, and for
factories where we will make our own cannon and
our own small arms. Then, even if the formal
taking over of the State debts is postponed, there
is room to do a great work by creating a Federal
sinking fund, which will buy up annually a cer-
tain amount of State securities in preparation for
the time when the debts will be consolidated. (A
few millions to form the nucleus of this fund
might be raised by requiring the banks, as is done
in Canada, to hold at least 40 per cent, of their
cash reserves in Government notes.) There
is that famous peg to be driven in, * which will
be the beginning of the settlement of the Federal
capital question, and so far as is known the end
of the peg isn’t even sharpened yet, nor has the
mallet been bought or borrowed. Or, as an alter-
native, there is something to be done by abandon-
ing the peg altogether, by ceasing to be foolishly
affable to Cabbuthebs, by passing an Act for
taking possession of the M*onaro site, and leaving
Cabbuthebs to howl for redress in the High
Court if he' doesn’t like it. There is work to
do at beginning a negotiation for the federalisa-
tion of the railways, with a uniform gauge and
uniform management. The question of building
a Federal fleet of mail-boats requires considera-
tion. And above all, there is need for a steady
policy of the assertion of Federal rights against
State encroachments, and for a steady movement
towards the time when the State Governments
and Governors and legislative paraphernalia will
be swept away. But Premier Deakin is too
affable to tackle such questions with the deter-
mination that means success.
* * » *
If Deakin would sell three-fourths of his affa-
bility and buy violence and resolution with
the money, he would then be in a position
to make the first beginnings of reform by
putting a heavy heel down on the whole wretched
policy of obstruction. Unfortunately he is too
affable to have any heavy heel to put down.
He wouldn’t wilfully tread on a worm, or on Joe
Cook. It requires a bitter tyrant now to get the
♦demoralised House back into working order.
Such a tyrant would begin by driving the Parlia-
; ment to adopt an uncompromising set of Standing
Orders, and, if necessary, would include in them a
proviso for pushing- Bills through on the compart-
ment system—so much time to so many clauses —
and a proviso that the yap of the long-winded
member “be no longer heard” to prevent the
whole time being taken up by much yapping over
one clause. He would set a good example bv being
himself much more brief, and much more direct and
uncompromising, as well as much less affable. And
when the beginning of the new order of tilings
provoked a final burst of fury from the obstruc-
tionists he would break their hearts and their
stonewall together by long sittings and by the
remorseless use of every weapon with which the
Standing Orders provided him. And having got
the means to push a great programme through, the
kind of tyrant who is required would make sure
that he had one to push through. But Alfbed
Deakin, in the wealth of his affability, doesn’t so
much as tell the obstructionists what he thinks of
them. And if he did it would probably be
of little use ; he is too affable even to think very
hard things of the mob that has built a barrier to
block the traffic, and is yelling behind it with a
wild expression in its hand, so to speak, and a
broken bottle in its eye, if the matter may be put
that way. Prime Minister Deakin is a gentle-
man, which some of his opponents are not, but lie
is a great deal too affable to be of much real service
in politics.
* * * *
And J. 0. Watson is also a viptim of the affable
habit. And Lyne is affable, though the country
is blessed in the fact that he isn’t so much so as
Deakin. And Isaacs, who isn’t needlessly affable,
is a victim to the unfortunate affability of his chief.
It is difficult, however carefully the House is in-
spected, to select among its members any man
who is quite equal to the occasion, so bad has the
demoralisation become. Outside the Federal
arena, Arthur Morgan, State Premier of Queens-
land, and George Swinburne, the boa-constrictor-
looking man who supplies the brains of the State
Cabinet in Victoria, seem about as promising
as any. If one of them occupied the position of
Prime Minister of Australia, and had a workable
set of Standing Orders to limit obstruction, and
got the loan of Bent’s roar (the same to be
returned in good order and condition when done
with) to quell the preliminary disturbance, many
things might become possible. But at present
very few things seem possible in the Australian
Parliament. For slowness, for reluctance to deal
with large subjects in a large way, for lack of
courage to abandon the ancient precedent and to
climb out of the aged rut, it seems as if it
might almost get down to the level of the
State Legislature of New South Wales,
and that represents about the lowest
depth to which incapacity can descend.
The only time when it put up a fine record of
hard, useful work w r as in the days when Kingston
was chief nigger-driver and wasted no uncalled-
for affability on the obstructionist faction. That
time, unfortunately, is a good while ago, and the
great Democrat who did such splendid service is
now little more than a name. Since his time
things have degenerated till they have reached
such a point that four blockheads were allowed
to set down thirty-one fool questions (Bruce
Smith, of N.S.W., asked sixteen of them, and
Johnson, of N.S.W., asked seven, and Kelly, of
N.S.W., asked five and someone else asked three)
about one consignment of imported hats, without
receiving the incivility which their folly called for.
These thirty-one hat absurdities should be the
climax. When this session ends the party should
insist on the Prime Minister taking lessons in
haste, anger, and iniquity, and getting rid of his
affability. He is too affable for this world.
Whether he is also too affable for the next The
Bulletin doesn’t pretend to say. It has never
been there.
THE CAPITAL SITE.
It is quite time the Australian Government put
an end to the long-drawn-out humbug about
stating a case for the High Court, to obtain a
decision as to the legal questions involved in the
selection of the capital site. The negotiations
have served one useful purpose. They have
proved conclusively that Carruthers of N.S.W.
is determined to disagree over anything and
everything which is likely to lead to a settlement.
Having served that purpose, they should now end.
The rest of the business can be done, and ought
to be done, by the Australian Government alone,
without the slightest reference to the disagreeable
and tricky person who misrepresents N.S.W.
The present position of affairs is this : In 1904
the Federal Parliament passed an Act, providing
that the seat of Government should be somewhere
within 17 miles of Dalgety. It had a perfect
right to pass this Act; not even the unpleasant
Carruthers denies that. But the .Seat of
Government Act of 1904 did not assume jurisdic-
tion over any specific area, nor confer any rights
of any kind upon the Commonwealth. It merely
expressed the intentions of the Commonwealth
Parliament. The State Parliament refused point-
blank to grant a site near Dalgety. The Consti-
tution provides that the Federal territory shall be
either “ granted to or acquired by ” the Common-
wealth. The State having refused to “ grant ” it,
it became necessary for the Commonwealth to
“acquire ” it. The main question at issue between
Commonwealth and State is whether the Common-
wealth can “acquire” territory at present belong-
ing to N.S.W. without the consent of that State.
* * * *
The State Premier’s notion of the way to test
that question, is that the Commonwealth should
commit some act of technical trespass, on the
selected site, and that the State should bring an
action in respect of it in the High Court. If he
knew anything about constitutional law, he would
know that such a proceeding couldn’t possibly
raise the real issue. At present everybody admits
that the Australian Government has no more
right to drive pegs in the Dalgety site than it has
to steal pictures from the Art Gallery. If the
course suggested by Carruthers were adopted,
therefore, the only possible result would be a
verdict for the State, on the ground that the Com-
monwealth has no rights of any kind over any
specified area of land on the Dalgety site. We
don’t need the High Court, assisted by expensive
gentlemen in ridiculous wigs, to tell us what
everybody knows already.
* * * *
The real issue—whether the Commonwealth can
acquire rights over the site, without the consent
of the State —can’t be tested until the Common-
wealth tries to acquire such rights. One would
have thought that this must be clear to anyone
who can see the sun at noonday; but the com-
bined intelligences of the State Premier and his
Attorney-General doesn’t seem to have been
equal to making the discovery. They complain
that the Commonwealth Government ought to
have told them before that the Seat of Govern-
ment Act did not purport to “acquire” the
Dalgety site. No doubt the Commonwealth
Government made the natural assumption that
Mr. C. G. Wade, K.C., Attorney-General of
N.S.W., was just as capable of reading and under-
standing an Act of Parliament as its own Attor-
ney-General. That assumption, however, natural
as it seems, was apparently wrong. Prime Minis-
ter Deakin now proposes to raise the real issue by
passing a law actually assuming rights over the
selected site; and Mr. Wade objects that this would
legalise the proposed trespass by the Common-
wealth. Surely it is clear to Mr. Wade that an
Act of the Commonwealth can’t legalise anything
at all, unless the Commonwealth has power to pass
the Act. And the question whether the Common-
wealth has power to pass the Act is the very
question at issue between the Commonwealth and
the State. This attitude towards Mr. Deakin’s
proposal is not surprising in the State Premier,
who has consistently opposed any course that was
likely to bring about a settlement of the disputed
questions. But it is disappointing, to say the
least of it, in a man who, whatever we may think
of his political opinions, has always been regarded
as a sound and careful lawyer. But there’s no
telling what may happen to a man when he gets
into bad company.
* » *
However, the State Attorney-General’s legal
opinions, and the State Premier’s ill-natured
snarls are of no real importance. The
Australian Government can test the question
by simply passing an Act to assume jurisdic-
tion over the selected area, and by taking
possession of it just as if there were no
such person as J. Carruthers in existence. If
that eminent nobody wishes to take objection to
this proceeding, he can take his objection in the
High Court, by bringing an action for trespass
against any Commonwealth officer found on the
site. At present, so far as one can discover from
his published utterances, his only ground for
objecting is that he has an unpleasant habit of
yelping at everything that is done by the Com-
monwealth. This ground seems to be good
enough for the State Parliament. But the High
Court will probably want some stronger reason
for the objection than the unpleasant habits of J.
Carruthers. However that may be, it is per-
fectly clear that the only way in which the
Australian Government can hope to get a legal
decision as to the extent of its powers is by exer-
cising them, and going straight on until it is
stopped. If Mr. Deakin waits until the N.S.W.
Premier has done throwing stones at him from
round the corner, sheep will continue browsing on
the Dalgety site for the next twenty years.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Hat Disease.
Ever since a certain small and wretchedly unim-
portant incident of three years ago, hatters and
hats have been a mania and a nightmare with the
Foreign-trade faction in the Australian Parlia-
ment. That Collection of Superior Persons sees
hatters in its dreams, and goes to bed with its hat on
lest some political problem about headgear should
arise before morning. It lays in extra hats lest
there should be a hat famine, and when it falls
asleep in the House of Representatives it calls out
“ Belltoppers ” in its visions. Some of it has got
the obsession so badly that it now drinks its beer
out of a hat instead of a glass. A little while ago
this benighted party had a recrudescence of the
hat disease. There was a suspicion that an im-
portation of the dreadful article was under-
valued, and the Customs seized the lot by virtue of
the clause which provides that, in such cases,
the Government may compulsorily purchase the
goods at ten 'per cent, above invoice value, and take
its chance of selling them at a profit. If the
invoice was a fraud, then the importers deserve
to lose the goods. If the invoice wasn’t a fraud,
then they get their full money and ten percent.
frofit, which is a very reasonable profit indeed.
t was a matter that was hardly worth a two-line
paragraph in the papers, but the Foreign-trade
mob went hat-mad over it. It got hat-mania in a
dreadful form, and should have been put in an
asylum for deranged hats—if there had been
such a place. This is the awful record of the busi-
ness paper in the House of Representatives last
week:—
Bruce Smith (of N.S.W.) asked sixteen questions about
hats
W. E. Johnson (of N.S.W.) asked seven questions
about hats 7
W. Kelly (of N.S.W.) asked five questions about hats 5
J. Hutchison (of S.A.) asked three questions about
hats.. ..
31
And, in addition to all this, samples of the hats
were brought in and handed round, and silly
members dabbed specimen hats on each other’s
craniuins, and laughed the loud laugh which betrays
the bare-headed mind. The men who did this
sort of thing are supposed to represent the Com-
monwealth. The Commonwealth is a place of
over 3,000,000 square miles, and with 4,000,000
population, therefore it is a large contract—in
area, if not in population. It has all its future
before it, and very little history behind it. Just
now it is troubled about many things—about fixing
and building the Federal capital, taking over the
State debts, building two transcontinental rail-
ways, taking over the Northern Territory, getting
immigrants and finding land for them to settle on
and factories for them to work in, about a
military and naval defence system, about a
new mail service, about paying off a huge
foreign liability, about a new banking law,
about appointing a High Commissioner, about
settling for the State properties taken over, and
other things besides. And a gang of pettifogging
legislators can’t rise above a problem about a box
of hats—which will be honestly paid for in any
case, and the seizure of which, whether the con-
signment was under-valued or not, was perfectly
legal. They were a tired and rather inert lot till
these hats rose on their mental horizon, and then
they recognised that they had struck something
about their own size, and they rushed at the hats
to see if there was anywhere in the heap a few
small enough to fit them. It is a pitiable thing to
see the time of a Legislature—especially a Legis-
lature which represents a whole continent—fooled
away over an alleged grievance which, even if it
were real, is only large enough to take up the
time of an inspector of nuisances. Parliament is
supposed to attend to great questions first, and
to be a fussy and benevolent old grand-
mother afterwards—assuming that it must
be a fussy old woman at any time. If
everybody in private life wasted as many hours
over every petty grievance or small quibble as
Smith and Johnson and Kelly do, the world
would be at a standstill. Many years ago, when
Bruce Smith was still connected with a certain
shipping co., this writer—who was very young
then—had the misfortune to take a steerage pas-
sage by one of his boats, a patriarchal boat that
afterwards left its skeleton on the Victorian coast.
In the course of that trip—between sleeping on a
table, cockroaches, dubious Irish stew, and the
presence on board of a spieler with a smellful
monkey—-he acquired more grievances than
ten consignments of hats would amount to.
If he had been as lingering an ass as
B. Smith he would probably have called
at B. Smith’s office on arrival, and put about 160
questions on the notice paper, and made a speech
of at least six hours, and also moved the adjourn-
ment of B. Smith’s whole establishment. Being
on the hustle for a position as bookkeeper to a
tinned meat factory, he just went ahead and
attended to ousiness. B. Smith and his friends
are hereby urged to do likewise. They are
elected to attend to Australia’s business, and that
doesn’t consist wholly in a deranged babblement
about hats.
+.
More People Wanted.
That remarkable gentleman, Bruce Smith, ad-
dressed a meeting in Sydney last week about the
necessity for more population, and, if a daily
paper report is correct, he decorated his address
with the gross slander that statistics proved “ tJ»j
population of Australia was not only not ad van I-
mg, but actually receding.” The last population
returns show that the population of every State
on the mainland is increasing, and while Tas-
mania is losing a little, there is a steady aggregate
increase, so if Bruce Smith really did say what
the Freetrade daily paper ascribes to him, he
meanly maligned a country in which he has
got a living all his life, and for which he has
done very little except expound law points and
help to run a finance company. Further, he is


said to have explained how the United States
“opened its arms wide to the whole worm
(which it doesn’t), and how “the true Imperial
spirit recognised the right of the King s subjects
to pass from one part of the empire to, another as
they found it most convenient to do so. JN othing
was said about the equally solid theoretical right
of the King’s subjects to have an equal voice m
the government of the empire—which the King s
nigger certainly has not. But perhaps the most
remarkable feature of the Smith logic was the ex-
planation, given in Smith’s best Superior Person
style :
The members of the Labor party had an idea in their
minds that. .. every fresh workman introduced into this
country must reduce the amount of labor which those
already here are employed to do. They lose sight
altogether of the fact that every workman who comes
here not only provides for himself , but gives employment
to others.
After all these years of politics this is apparently
all that Bruce Smith knows! How does every
workman who comes here employ himself. It
he is almost any kind of a worker in iron, brass,
tin, or zinc, in woollen, cotton, linen, jute or silk—
if he represents any one of the trades which nnike
up three-fourths of the world’s manufacturing
industries —he doesn’t employ himself when lie
arrives here. He is simply told that Australia
doesn’t make these things, that it imports them,
that Bruce Smith says that imports are one of the
great sources of prosperity, and that he had
better get away, or apply to the Benevolent
Asylum. It is a ghastly mockery to see a stout,
comfortable legal gentleman —a member of a
purely parasitic profession and also a member of
the closest trades union on earth —rising publicly
in a boiled shirt to say that “every workman who
comes here employs himself” when he knows
perfectly well that workmen belonging to the
great majority of the world’s trades who have the
misfortune to come here don’t employ themselves
—there is no employment for them. When a
workman goes to a strange country he employs
himself if there is employment for him ; if not he
becomes one of the unemployed. According to
the Smith doctrine there are no unemployed, and
there can’t be any. How do the Smiths of this
world happen, anyhow ?
♦
The Old Man’s Will.
The State Parliaments of N.S.W. and Victoria
are just now both considering Bills which provide
that when the cantankerous old person so be-
queaths his property as to leave his wife and
children penniless, the courts may partly set the
will aside and order them to be provided for. This
idea has aroused quite a storm of opposition, par-
ticularly in N.S.W. Assembly; and in the main
it is very illogical opposition. The wisest-looking
owl who rose to argue on the side of what he
thought was ancient precedent (as a matter of
fact, it isn’t—most ancient law recognises, as the
Scotch law now does, the right of a widow to a
share of her dead husband’s property) could find
nothing wiser to say than that when a man
deliberately left his wife to starve —
His reason for doing so might be perfectly good, and it
might be a secret locked within his own breast, and no
tribunal was competent to say whether he had acted
rightly or wrongly.
That looks plausible at first sight, but if this sort
of logic holds good, then, of course, the testator
should be allowed —for reasons locked within his
own breast —to refuse to provide for his wife and
infants while he is alive. To give his corpse privi-
leges which his living personality didn’t possess is
absurd. If a wife or some young children are to be
deprived of food, clothes, lodging and money, and
generally thrown out on a cold world without any
reason assigned, it is reasonable to let the husband
and father commence the process while he is alive.
The reason, whatever it may be, is as good then as
when he is dead. Moreover, while he is alive he is
able to enjoy his family’s sufferings, which are a
wasted entertainment when he is in the mossy
tomb. Therefore, if the two Legislatures are not
going to pass the Bills now before them, they
should be logical and abolish all statutes which re-
quire the old 'tnan, while he still cumbers this
earthly sphere, to support his wife and his off-
spring. If it is proposed to be brutal, there is
nothing like being logically brutal, or brutally
logical. On the other hand, if the two Legis-
latures can shake off a bad modern English habit,
and take a fair view of things, a very good case
can be made out for the proposed, change
in these four propositions. (1) Somebody must
support the old woman, however bad she
may be, and it is as well for her dead husband to
do it as for live people who are not in any way
related to her. (2) Somebody must support the
infant, however villainous it may have become at
the early age of three or so, and its dead father
may as well do that as strangers. (3) If the old
man could stand the wrong and injury of being
compelled to support his wife and infant (even if
the wife was bad and the infant had committed
forgery in the cradle) while he was alive —and
the Law says he must do so—his remains can put
up with the shock also, (4) If he has “ locked up
in his own breast ” a secret reason for desiring to
leave all his money away from his family, that
reason may be creditable, but it is much more
likely to be a girl at the variety show. At all
events, no person should be condemned unheard-
even if the person is an old woman or a three-
years-old infant, and even if the sentence is only
one of poverty, hunger and wretchedness ; and if
the old man doesn’t assign any reason for pass-
ing this atrocious sentence, then it should
be assumed that he has none that can bear inspec-
tion. Even the oldest woman and the smallest
infant should be regarded as innocent until they
are proved guilty.
♦ -
An Appeal to Bent.
Thomas Bent, the remarkable Premier of
Victoria, after doing better work, for a while,
than any other Premier that Australia has had
for 40 years, shows signs of falling away. During
his Premiership there have been a very large
number of things which Bent has left undone,
but as a set-off to this he did two things that were
so great and so memorable that, if he had only
continued doing them, they would have out-
weighed all his bad deeds present and past.
They would have even compensated for his comic
songs and his bear-like antics, and have left such
a balance of merit in his favor that he should
have been allowed to kill Dr. Em-bung, M.L.C.,
with impunity if doing so would have given him
any satisfaction. During the last financial year
Thomas Bent proved that it was possible for an
Australian State to pay for its new public works
out of revenue, to dispense with loans, and also
to actually reduce its public debt. He proved
these things by simply doing them, and thereby
he committed the best action that any State Pre-
mier has been even suspected of for a generation.
Having got so far, there were hopes that Bent
would go further and follow out his policy to its
legitimate conclusion. To do that would only
require three Acts of Parliament—the whole lot
need not amount to more than a dozen clauses—
providing:—
(1) That all further borrowing should be illegal except
as regards borrowing for the renewal of old loans.
(2) That a certain sum (say, £100,000) B *_ l . oulf P aK
annually out of revenue to a public debt sinking bind.
(3) That a certain sum (say £100,000) should be pawl
annually out of revenue to a Public Works I und for the
construction of new public works. ..
Bent has proved, by actual demonstration, that
these things are possible, and it is only reason-
able therefore to ask that he should con-
tinue doing them, and should make them a
fixed policy by Act of Parliament instead
of a mere precarious accident. 1 erhaps he will
yet do so, but of that his latest financial state-
ment contains no definite promise. It foieshadows
nothing 1 more than a nominal surplus, and instead
of reading like the statement of the extraordinary
financial Bent, who dragged the Victorian
Treasury out of the mire last year, it might be the
work of a Carruthers, or an anybody. Yet
Bent plainly has ambitions to be an unusual kind
of Premier, and in no way could he be more
unusual, not to say astonishing, than by passing
the three Acts above mentioned. The man who
did that would leave so large a footprint on the
sands of time that ordinary Premiers would fall
into it and disappear. He would be paragraphed,
lauded, advertised or denounced in every paper m
the English-speaking world, and he would be
translated into foreign languages as well. _ Also
he would give the Stinking Fish organisation
the most sudden shock it has yet received, and
Bent, whatever his faults, has never been to any
great extent in the Stinking Fish business.. The
Bulletin appeals to Bent to lead the way in this
great reform, because he is the only Premier here-
abouts who looks unusual enough to do so. He
isn’t bound by precedent—no man who had a
respect for precedent could sing the songs he does
or sing them in the way he does —and only a man
who can escape from precedent is of any use in
such a case. Borrowing has become so habitual
in Australia that it requires someone quite dif-
ferent from the ordinary, commonplace, harmless,
stereotyped, bell toppered multitude to escape
from it, and no one can take even a casual look at
the back view of Bent without realising that he
is something apart from the ordinary multitude.
For a while this paper had hopes that it might
prove the right kind of apartness. There are still
hopes, but not quite the hopes that there were a
few months ago.
+
Carruthers’ Arbitration Sham.
Broken Hill takes Attorney-General Wade’s
Arbitration Abolition Bill so seriously as to pro-
pose a general strike if it is pushed on in its
present shape. What gets on the miners’ nerves
most is the provision that a board may be consti-
tuted in any trade, half employers and half
employees, whereupon three things may happen :
(1) The decision of the board cannot be enforced ; in
fact, there may never be a decision.
(2) Once a board is constituted, there can be no appeal
to the Arbitration Court.
(3) Though the award or decision of the board cannot
be enforced, and though there is no power even to
compel the board to come to any decision, and
though even if the board breaks down it is impos-
sible to go to the Arbitration Court, yet the right
to stride is taken from the workmen. This means that
the workmen are not allowed to do anything in the
nature of a strike if the board should come to a decision
against them, while if the decision is against the em-
ployers, they can strike as much as they like, seeing that
the award cannot be enforced. In other words, awards or
decisions can be enforced against workmen, but not
against employers.
Broken Hill talks about strikes' and arbitration
with a good deal of personal knowledge and ex-
perience. It had just the very kind of board that the
N.S.W. Government’s Bill mentions ; and it acted
splendidly—so long as there was nothing for it to do.
Then there was trouble. The co.’s said it was no
use for the two sides on the board to meet because
they (the companies) wouldn’t agree. They also
said it wasn’t any use arbitrating, because they
knew what they wanted, and were going to get it.
That was honest, anyway. The “ Reform ” brand of
arbitration is much less honest; it gives employers
“the office” to arbitrate and accept the award if
it suits them. It is simply a question of arbitra-
tion and the enforcement of awards, on the Maori-
land plan (and the N.S.W. plan, after all, hasn’t
been a bad copy), or strikes. Carruthers and W ade
cannot dodge that alternative. N.S.W. tried the
optional brand of arbitration, and some of the most
disastrous strikes the country has known occurred
while it was in force. In nearly three years of
serious industrial unrest only one small case of
conciliation and one small case of arbitration were
dealt with ; and at the end of that time a dis-
gusted Parliament refused to grant supplies to
keep the useless thing going any longer. So much
for the optional system in the light of practical
experience.
Very Deaf.
Thorold Dalrymple writes from England about
the very deaf Englishman
The Englishman won’t listen. After twelve months
study of the breed here on the spot, I diagnose deafness
as the great national ailment. Earlier observations were
confined to people of the lower middle strata, but lately
I’ve met a few who ought to have ears for everything, if
they really wish to justify the positions they have taken
as authorities on certain subjects. They have tongues
for everything ; ears for nothing.
Last night I encountered one of the greatest figures in
British statesmanship. He has achieved an international
reputation as “the foremost authority on England’s
colonial interests.” He commenced with the startling
announcement, “ Your country’s a failure, sir ; a rank
failure,” and for the next half-hour I listened with mixed
feelings to nicely-selected statistics from Coghlan, inter-
spersed with bits of Argus leading article and other flum-
mery. I was permitted to say “Yes” seventeen times
and “No” eleven or twelve ; but when I ventured “I
don’t quite ”- the great Imperialist silenced me with a
benign wave of the hand, and finally bowed me out
without hearing one word from his Australian visitor
about Australia. I thank him here and now for the vast
information he gave me about my country, but I’m sorry
he’s so deaf.
Lately I was invited to meet an eminent writer on
Japan. He talked Monkey until he looked apoplectic,
and when I tried to state why we don’t want the brown
creature in our yard, he cut me off with a comprehensive
statement that‘the Jap would be our making. “Ever
been in Australia?” I asked. “Well, no,” he hesitated.
“S’pose you’ve been in Japan, though?” “Know the
country through, sir,” he proudly answered. “ I was
there once for nearly two months.”
And so right through England’s politics and her litera-
ture. The standard book on naval construction as
applied to actual wariare was written by a boy just from
school, who is said never to have trodden the deck of any
vessel more menacing than a Thames ferry. “Special-
ists ” become so by battening upon the work of other
people. But to be “specialists” they must pose, and
above all things they must be oracular and—deaf.
The authority on things is only, however, a higher de-
velopment of the average Englishman, particularly the
Scotch variety. One of the Scotch kind I encountered
aboard ship making Londonwards from South Africa. He
argued with me for three days that Australia (where he’d
never been) was emphatic in its demand for Chamberlain’s
preferentialism, and that great public meetings had been
held in Australia. He was greatly applauded by many
other Scotch-Engiish who’d never been in Australia.
Somebody gave the show away by telling them I’d been
in the very thick of political journalism out there. But
he went on arguing, and said he didn’t care a (something)
if I was the Governor-General and the whole (picturesque)
Commonwealth ; he wasn’t going to have other people’s
opinions rammed down his throat. Still he was no worse
than a University product who assured me, the other day,
that Bendigo was not one of the large towns of Victoria,
and brought out a school book to demonstrate that the
four leading cities were Melbourne, Ballarat, Geelong, and
Sandhurst. When I explained that Sandhurst had become
Bendigo several years ago, be said I was mistaken.
What’s a fellow to do when people are so deaf ?
♦
A Labor Lesson.
Experience of the extremist section of the
Queensland Labor party at the last two bye-
elections and of the forlorn Labor party in Wes-
tralia shows, what it was rather necessary to
show, that there is no special virtue in the word
“Labor” to cover political delinquencies. The
electors are just as ready to punish a Labor
member who defaults on his political pro-
mises as a “Liberal,” or a “Reformer,”
or any other brand of candidate. From the
earlier stages of contempt and hostility the
Labor party very quickly, almost magically, came
in Australia to a position of commanding respect.
Very many Labor men seem to think that this
was because it was a “ Labor ” party. But it
was really because it was a radically progressive
party, which promised to bring a much-needed
leavening of honesty and sincerity into politics.
So long as the Labor party continues to live up to
that promise it will flourish. As soon as it
begins to fall away from it, it will perish.
In Westralia the Labor party won to office,
and the Labor Ministry, led by Daglish (who
now fitly ends his career by renegading)
misused and abused the opportunity. The result
was that the Labor Ministry went out with
ignominy, and, judging from the results of recent
Ministerial bye-elections, will have a hard time at
the polls. In Queensland the Labor Party organi-
sation outside of Parliament has thought fit to
declare war on the men inside Parliament be-
cause, following the sensible lead of Kidston,
Airev and Kerr, they insist on working for prac-
tical reforms instead of crying for the moon. This
intransigeant attitude the electors have now con-
demned decisively at two bye-elections, and, so
far as can be judged, the extremist Labor Party
could not win a seat at the present moment. It
might, at a general poll, keep one or two of the
men with whom it is quarrelling from getting back
to the House ; but that seems to be the.limit of its
power. The lesson from each State is the same.
A “Labor” party can win support from the
electors only by being practically progressive.
It is not sufficient to brand itself “Labor’’and
rattle chains and platitudes in the ears of the
electors.
♦
Humors of Australian Defence.
A correspondent on the humors of that tragic
farce, Australian Defence :
The Federal fort of Albany (W.A.) has been provided
with a complete set of submarine electric mines, their
object being to prevent an enemy’s ships entering the
harbor in time of war. These mines require careful
handling by specially-trained experts, but no provision
whatever has been made for any submarine miners on the
Albany establishment; and no one at present in the fort
is even competent to lay mines down in the harbor. The
Defence Department apparently intends to forward a
detachment of qualified men from the eastern States by
sea as soon as the enemy’s fleet has arrived in Australian
waters. .
A quartermaster-sergeant-artificer was recently des-
patched from Brisbane to Thursday Island on a tour of
instruction. Entrusted to his care were implements for
taking the impressions of muzzle-loading guns, and his
mission was to teach their use to another titled func-
tionary on the island. Muzzle-loading guns are, however,
out of date, even at Thursday Island, and as the imple-
ments were totally unsuitable for use with breech-
loaders, the impressions of the latter could not be
obtained. It is, however, believed that if secured they
would have expressed very strong opinions on the intel-
ligence of the Defence Department in Queensland. It is
not clear whether the armament of Thursday Island will
be revised to suit the implements, or further implements
despatched to suit the armament. The matter will, no
doubt, be considered when the Council of Defence meets ;
but it is understood that the quartermaster-sergeant
artificer returned, after a most enjoyable holiday, with all
his titles unimpaired.
Swan Island, near Port Phillip heads, is armed with a
little battery of quick-firing guns. Grave doubts, how-
ever, exist as to whether an enemy will ever have a chance
of attacking the fortification if peace prevails much longer.
The works, commenced some years ago, are still without
a concrete apron, and the emplacements consequently
crumble away after the discharge of each gun. A few
more years and a little more practice and the bulk of the
fort will have disappeared. Already a chasm 2ft. deep
yawns beneath the battery, and demands a victim.
It is hardly credible that the Federal Government, after
having already ordered 3618-pounder field guns at a cost of
about £90,000, with 12 more to follow next year at a cost
of another £30,000, has made no provision at all for ranges
on which these guns may be fired with safety. It has
been suggested that suitable ranges cannot be secured,
owing to the dense population of Australia ; but, on the
other hand, artillery ranges have been secured in England
in spite of population, so that difficulty should not be
insuperable. The Minister for Defence, however, pleads
want of money as the reason —“Think what an artillery
range 10 miles by four would cost!” and imagination
falters before the task. But surely it was a pity to
indulge in the newest guns with an effective range of six
miles if the cost of the ranges required for their use in
practice is beyond what Australia can afford ?
In Kyneton (Vic.) the military forces appear to be held
in greater esteem as contributors to the recreation of the
district than in their more prosaic capacity as defenders
of the hearth and home. It is, therefore, only natural
that the local authority (can this possibly be J. W. M'Oay,
M.H.R., ex-Minister for Defence and Colonel of the Regi-
ment ?), more convivially inclined than the military board,
has substituted a band-sergeant for the color-sergeant
authorised on the establishment for the Kyneton Com-
pany of the Bth Aus. Inf. Regt. The result has been
a most efficient band for each half battalion, and has
largely increased the capacity of the Regiment to strike
terror into the ear of the invader. Military discipline
must, however, be maintained, and the Inspector-General
is obliged to regard the change as a very serious defect.
He therefore recommends that early steps be taken to
appoint a color-sergeant; that the company be
trained by its own officers at its own headquarters ; that
its clothes and arms be kept at Kyneton instead of at.
Castlemaine ; and that the cost of taking the company to
Castlemaine to drill be saved. N.B.—-This change re-
quired the interference of the Inspector-General! Who
shall say hereafter that his office is a useless one ?
The 9th regiment of Australian Light Horse provides a
safety valve to the martial ardor of Ballarat and Bacchus
Marsh. Its commanding officer administers the affairs of
the regiment from Melbourne, where he resides ; while
the acting adjutant patronises Ballarat, but does not call
on Bacchus Marsh. To maintain the tone and social
standing of this happy family, all applications to enlist
must be submitted to the 0.0. in Melbourne for approval,
entailing much office work and expenditure on postage.
But Finn, iconoclast, objects ; urging, as most essen-
tial, that the 0.0. should occasionally visit outlying units,
and the adjutant still more frequently, in order that the
supervision essential to efficiency may be assured —and,
more ruthless still, suggests that the junior officer com-
manding a mere squadron is better able to recognise a
suitable recruit when he sees him than a 0.0. in Mel-
bourne in receipt of a neatly-written application (and
pedigree;). .
The object of search lights in harbor defence is to
enable guns to be trained on ships making a night attack ;
it is, therefore, instructive, but not surprising, to find
that at Queenscliff the steam engines used for driving the
electric light machinery are so arranged that the smoke
from their chimneys, when the search light is in use, in-
terferes materially with the effective working of the guns
in the adjoining batteries. The suggestion that the use
of oil engines would be preferable is probably too simple
a solution of the difficulty. The batteries themselves
might be removed, and so provide the Defence Depart-
ment with a fresh opportunity of displaying its'engmeer-
ing skill.
Careful hair-dressing is in future to be a feature of
Federal defence. In other countries hirsute warriors
may still strike terror into the hearts of their foes on the
field of battle. In South Australia, owing- no doubt to a
strong strain of German sentimentalism among its
citizens, the army offends conspicuously in this respect,
and, accordingly, .Major-General Finn “ finds it necessary
to impress upon all ranks, especially in the Militia
Infantry and in the Army Medical Corps, the necessity for
wearing the hair short.”
The Man Westralia Wants.
The financial question is by far the biggest ahead
of Westralia, and neither the Rason party nor the
Labor party seems to have the grit to tackle it in
earnest. In its last year the James Government
let the State drift £148,000 to the bad ; Daglish’s
year showed the lamentable deficit of £129,000;
and for the current year the even more shiftless
Rason faces a prospective deficit of £323,000 with-
out turning a hair. There were a few thousands
of borrowed money that Daglish had authority to
spend, and didn’t; and the only explanation the
shiftless Rason can offer for the fact that the State
isn’t as prosperous as it ought to be is that Dag-
lish withheld these few thousands. “If they asked
him,” he said in his policy speech, “to put his
finger on the spot where the depression existed in
Westralia to-day, he would say it existed because
the Government had not shown that faith that
it should have done ” —and all because Daglish
didn’t spend £216,000 of borrowed money .that he
might have spent. Rason’s one idea of showing
confidence in to-morrow is to go to the pawnshop
to-day. Daglish was an incapable financier; but
the still more incapable Rason blames him for
one of the few bright spots on his administration.
He had just had one taste of the treatment
Westralia was likely to receive from Cohen in the
future ; his £1,400,000 loan cost £IOO,OOO to raise,
and down to this day most of it remains
in the hands of the underwriters. All that
Rason can say in reply is that it will be all right
now—the war is over, and Cohen is open for
business at the old address ; and if he isn’t open
for business at the old address, then Westralia
holds heaps of money itself, and he will borrow
some of that. Rason is too magnificent a spend-
thrift to notice the hard, brown fact that money
is dearer in London to-day than it was when
Daglish tried to raise £1,400,000 in the open mar-
ket there, and couldn’t; and as for the other
string to his bow, he apparently isn’t capable of
seeing the folly of giving Westralia its own IO U.
If Westralia. has money, then it isn’t because it
can’t afford to pay that the State is having
one vast deficit after another; it is simply
because it has the misfortune to have shiftless
Treasurers who won’t ask it to pay. The
Labor party, if it isn’t satisfactory, is a shade
better than that. Even Daglish was better ; for
he, anyhow, did propose some little extra taxa-
tion. And it isn’t a pleasant thing to reflect that
he had no sooner proposed it than he was violently
thrown out, while Rason, who just proposed to
drift—who said that the prospective £323,000 de-
ficit “ gave him no alarm,” wherefore he wouldn’t
go on with Daglish’s taxation proposals, and
would scorn anything in the way of retrenchment
— Rason came back, and his colleagues with him,
returned with increased majorities in every case.
Apparently, therefore, Westralia doesn’t want
honest finance, it doesn’t want to pay its way, and
it takes debts and deficits for preference. In that
case Rason is clearly Westralia’s man.
The Chinese Horror.
A CORRESPONDENT to the RAND DAILY EXPRESS
instances the crowning horror, so far, of the Chow-
British occupation of the Dutch Republics :
A woman was assaulted while she was walking from one
place to another near Johannesburg, and the Chinese who
assaulted her, after having tried in vain to deprive her of
her honor, bit and tore her breasts. I learn that the
woman is now insane, and that she always cries out
“ Chinamen ! Chinamen ! ” and I further learn that, when
the nurse takes off the bandages', the poor woman’s breasts
hang in rags and tatters.
Will Mr. Bruce Smith kindly table another
motion for the free admission of the gentle and
civilised Chow to Australia ? By the way, it is
of these men that E. W. Cole wrote the other
day :
South Africa is importing multitudes of Chinese to
work its low-grade but almost inexhaustible gold mines.
These grand workers will make S. Africa boom, and
multitudes of our young men will be drawn thither by
high wages.
And our young women ? Will they be drawn
thither to have their breasts torn off by the teeth
of Chinamen ?
♦
On Vastness.
Mr. G. H. Knibbs, who, judging from his
speeches, wouldn’t know an aesthetic idea from a
parallelogram if he met them both in a poor light,
told N.S.W. Public Works Committee, apropos of
the proposed Mitchell Library building, to cost
£120,000: —
If we compare the structures of Sydney with those of
Berlin and Washington, ours will be found much too
small for requirements, and anything but imposing enough
for national monuments. Our buildings, the best of them,
would be too good to ruthlessly destroy, but yet small
enough to mark the mediocrity of our aesthetic ideas.
And he then mildly proposed that “ about £500,000
should be spent on the library.” Mr. Knibbs
is a fair sample of a class of people, not
peculiar to but very common in Australia —
a class from which nearly all aldermen and
most politicians are recruited —which has an
incurable confusion of ideas as to the meanings
of “magnificent,” “artistic” and “vast.” To
this class almost anything vast is magnificent, and
nothing is artistic that is not very large—where-
fore, one of Meissonier’s pictures isn’t a patch on a
dead whale or a tailings-dump at Broken Hill. The
prominence of such ideas in a community is a sure
sign either of lack of cultivation or of decadence.
The Greeks at their best were content to put all
that is accepted as greatest in human art into the
building of small temples and the writing of small
books and the shaping of small life-size sculp-
tures. It was the outside barbarians who had
the idea that an artistic effect could only be con-
veyed by vastness. In Australia the uncouth
confusion of size with beauty is very pronounced.
When Government House, Melbourne, was being
built, the architect was instructed to make it like
the ugliest of British Royal homes, “only bigger,”
and the artistic beauty of the place was held to be
guaranteed when it was provided that it should
include a ball-room alleged to be the biggest in
the world. Discussing the grandeur of the Spring-
street Parliament House the typical Melbourne
man will always tell you that one of its lobbies is
as big as the debating chamber of the House of
Commons. Sydney boasts as its claim to musi-
cal fame the biggest organ on earth ; of the
size in the musical world of the man who plays
it nothing is said. The Owe’Sullivan aimed at
making Sydney’s the biggest railway station in
the world, and that unfortunate nest of struggling
shops and fortune-tellers’ rooms (Queen Victoria
Markets, Sydney) was built with the notion of
being the biggest market in the world. All this
worship of bigness is barbarous. A small build-
ing can be almost as artistic as a big one,
if both follow a good architectural style, and
generally is much more so, since the big one, as a
rule, depends only on its bigness for effect. Aus-


IS you ß FARM SECURE?
If you die, who will have the Farm?
Your Family or the Mortgagee ?
An Equitable Endowment will keep the Farm in Your Family.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney
(or Nearest Branch of the^ciety).
Please send me particulars of an Equitable
Endowment,.
1 was Iwm
Nairn
Address
h
D
0
!»
t . ARE 1
FIRST
favourites”
im
£
s£
*?.
on account of
their purity*
& flavour.
Gallaher Belfasr- belong to noTrustorCombine
? f ‘he smallest places on earth, from
a Point of view of population : and even if thev
were thoroughly artistic otherwise, vast buildings
inappropriate to its circumstances iust as
great masses of jewels are to a young girl Berlin
Zon‘the E " pire “ffin «SS
hw?’ the bloated American Republic. Sydney
te ‘ m wt m T n'illion of Tits
craze for bS, b ° uld to a Knibbs’
to MmnivfK magnificence and vastness, seek
lh °“ ” l,es “«-»»of iB
♦
N.S.W. Politics—a Cursory Glance.
Carruthers is not a “strong
man. He is a person of great ability in
some respec tSi but cursed with a small, niggling
soul. With a good deal of cleverness, he spofls it
lackoTnbmk 00 WL 7 ’> nd by an durable
{ft-L , P m k Wher f Wlt h a little courage every:
ShU? easy ’ h ? srpw-s tearful in his desire
to be conciliatory ; and only when it is obvious to
nlssS° Cy that th ® tlme for a fight has quite
hmd ilo fi 1 R eVer C °^ e ’ Joseph raise the
loud yelp of defiance. Yet it is this man who is
Z 5 v bei - g f Pasled r actual1 y pushed-by his
Opposition into a niche as one of the masterful
1 remiers of the day. The Labor party in ISi. S. W.
is laboring—sometimes 24 hours a day— to make for
iw a . le P.station, and there is a good deal of fear
that it will succeed. The N.S.W. Labor party
has, in the past, had a deal more luck and a deal
more merciful consideration than it deserved
It, m addition to its other follies, it now
fastens Joseph Carruthers as a “strong-man”
incubus on to New South Wales, its tale of
misdoings will be complete. During last Parlia-
ment, the party supported the See-O’Sullivan-
Orick Administration, which left as its souvernirs
the Lands scandals, the unfinished white elephant
railway station, the Manly tram, and the busted
borrowing boom. For all the shocking incidents
of that Administration the Labor party was
blameable to at least the extent that it supported
the Cabinet solidly. Yet, when the elections
came the electors were quite prepared to forget
all that and to take the Labor party to their
bosom if that party had shown any signs of having
a practical reform policy. But the party refused
distinctly to rest under such a creditable imputa-
tion. It persisted in semi-attaching itself to the
deplorable Owe Sullivan and his loan methods,
and could be induced only to promise to be mode-
rately honest as regards the public finances. Still
the electors, in an incurable spirit of optimism
showed some belief m a party which didn’t profess
to beheve in itself to any remarkable extent, and,
of the three parties going before them, practically
wiped out theO Sullivan crowd, trimmed down the
CARRUTHERS crowd, and added to the strength of
the Labor crowd only. A little experience of that
Labor party in opposition has probably convinced
the electors of their mistake. At the opening of
Parliament, affairs were so divided that Car-
ruthers had no working majority against the
Labor party and the remnant of the O’Sullivan-
ites, and the solidarity of his party was eaten into
by the fact that many of its members were
solemnly bound to vote against any further
addition to the public debt. The Labor party,
which had reluctantly pledged itself to a strict
limitation of borrowing, might have, as a matter
of tactics if not of honesty, raised the question of
financial reform as soon as Carruthers started to
trot to the pawnshop to raise a trifle for the usual
permanent and reproductive tombstone, and the
coat of paint and china pot for the Government
accommodation house at Jenolan. But it didn’t.
When the Lands scandals set all honest noses
sniffing and _ the Carruthers Government was
obviously doing its best to burke a full inquiry, the
Labor party might have justly refused to allow any
public business to be transacted until the action the
public demanded of the Administration was taken.
But it didn t. Certainly it drove the Government
to action, but by easy stages and with a very
tender sympathy for jibbing. From the point of
view of the public interest this was deplorable, for
the delays thus permitted did much to rob the
investigation of its value. From the point of
view of political tactics it was even more con-
demnable, for now the Government is beginning
to plume itself on its rugged honesty in “pushing
on ” with the Lands inquiry, and within a very
few months the Public—the great Public of the
Long Ears and the Short Memory—will remember
only the fact that it v u is the Government which
granted the inquiry, and forget all about the urging
of the Opposition.' Having thus missed two golden
opportunities, the Labor party suddenly woke
up to the fact that it was its duty as an
Opposition to oppose, and began to stonewall
the Local Government Bill—a measure which,
with all its faults, is of real value. So the
Labor party stands to the public eye to-day
in this position, that it doesn’t object to Car-
ruthers continuing a wholesale borrowing policy,
limit which he is pledged and it is pledged,
and to stop which altogether many in the House
are pledged; that it didn’t feel deeply enough'
about the Lands scandals to attempt any stone-
walling or vigorous opposition on their account;
but that it was prepared to do its utmost to help
the Owe Sullivan and the roads-and-bridges
members to keep back a measure of Local Govern-
ment. . Asa natural consequence of this sort of
opposition,” the Carruthers Government has
been immensely strengthened. It began the
session in an almost hopeless position. It will
end it strengthened by many triumphs, with
improved morale and discipline. This additional
strength, too, it is threatened, will be used to
repeal and maim the democratic legislation of
past administrations. The position is not one on
which the Labor party is to be congratulated.
At present there is in Australia a newspaper com-
bine which maintains an agency in London to
supply cable news. By dividing the cost among
members of the combine the amount paid by each
paper is very small. The combine can kill all
fresh daily newspaper enterprise by refusing to
allow anew paper to join its ranks. The new
paper could, in theory, set up its own London
agency and send out its own cables, but then it
would have to carry the whole cost of the service
itself, and no paper could do that; it would be in
trie position of a man who was boycotted by the
1 ram way Department, but was told there was
nothing to prevent him building a tramway sys-
tem of Ins own and being the sole passenger! In
theory, also, the new paper could join with other
new papers and make a fresh combine, but only
the simultaneous starting of new daily papers in
every city could supply material for anew com-
mne, and the multi-millionaire who is to do that
hasn t eventuated. The Federal Senate has taken
steps to break up the monopoly by adding
™ n £° Pyrlght Bill . a c l aus e under which
the Combine must admit new members or lose
copyright in cable news. In other words,
it the old papers conspire to prevent anew
paper getting cable news except on impossible
terms, the new paper may steal the old ones’
cables—if it can steal them while they are still
fresh enough to be of any use to it. Supposing it
is an evening paper, it can do so ; if it is a morn-
-1 i^+u aP i er can * :- This is an inefficient remedy
at the best, though perhaps a better one could
hardly be included in a Bill dealing merely with
copyright. When a measure for the abolition of
Irusts comes along something more may be
effected. But even this partial remedy for a very
ugly system of boycotting has roused some papers
to boiling point. Sydney Telegraph, which
awhile ago arrogantly threatened newsagents if
they sold—in their own shops, which they run at
their own risk and cost —a rival paper which then
promised publication, is especially loud in its
complaints about “interference with private
enterprise.”
+
Another instance of the pernicious influence State
Governments can exercise over Federal matters
has just been brought to light in connection with
the lasmanian defence forces. In 1901, under
State control, the forces had become hopelessly
disorganised, without equipment, and without
ammunition ; they were armed with M.H. rifles
15 years old, and practically useless; and the
State Minister for Defence described the service
as being “more a menace to the State than a
security. Defence was then transferred to the
Commonwealth, and matters remained much in
the same condition till 1903, when the forces were
re-organised on a Federal basis. This entailed an
increased expenditure for Tasmania of £4OOO to
enable an efficient force of militia to be enrolled.
1 hereupon Premier Propsting had the impudence
to write to Prime Minister Barton objecting to the
payment of militia, as far as Tasmania was con-
cerned. Bigjohn Forrest, though protesting
strongly, collapsed like a pricked bladder before
the attack, and Australia’s uniform organisation
scheme was torn to bits just to oblige Propsting
Ihe Tasmanian militia, finding that, unlike all
similar Federal troops, it received no pay, was
naturally indignant. The bulk of the Hobart
regiment refused to turn out to welcome Hutton
when he visited the village, and Hutton re-
turned their civility by disbanding them. Scandal
a nd much ill-feeling were created, for all of which
the Federation has been blamed, though it now
appears that Eropsting was the real culprit. And
through Bigjohn’s vast incapacity to realise his
responsibility as a Federal Minister every little
State politician in Tasmania who has wanted to
pose as a patriot has, for the last two years, been
able to blither and bleat against Federation all
over the island.
-
Some evidence recently given before the Federal
Boyal Commission on old age pensions shows that
Victoria owes it to Iceberg Irvine that it has been
Put in the position of acting as a sort of Shylock
creditor to the old age pensioner. The secretary
of the Manchester Unity Lodge of Oddfellows, in
his evidence before the Commission, pointed out
that the result of Irvine’s amendment of the Old
Age Pensions Act was that the Curator of Intestate
Estates claimed the death allowances due from a
lodge to the widow of a pensioner. This was
verified by the Curator, who stated—
In dealing with the affairs of the deceased the Treasurer
has given instructions that first a decent burial shall be
provided. Then, if there be assets remaining in the
estate, these assets are applied in payment of the Crown
debt—that is, the sum paid by the Crown in old age
pensions. Finally, if there still be a surplus after these
charges are met, it is made available for payment to the
legal representative of the deceased pensioner.
The State which can use its officials to distrain on
the little “funeral money” provided by an old
a lj® pensioner s thrift, and snatch that paltry crust
from the widow’s mouth, ought to run a cent, per
cent, money-lending business from its Treasury.
Otherwise its SHYLOCKcapacities are wasted.
By dint of much outcry against “Tattersall,” the
Victorian Government has at last been induced to
take action, and a very remarkable kind of action
it is. Barrister Cussen was turned on to dig up
some law that would enable the agents who send
for “ Tattersall’s ” tickets to be prosecuted. He
got back to 1733, and found an Act of George II
which imposed a penalty of £2OO for procuring for
anyone a ticket in a “ foreign ” lottery. Cussen
interprets “foreign ” to mean “outside the juris-
diction of victoria, * and a writ has been served
on a Wesleyan gentleman named Abraham Hyam
Moses for the recovery of £2OO. Under another
Act of George IV., passed in 1824, Moses is
asked to hand over £SO for having sold a ticket in
a lottery not authorised by Act of Parliament.
Whole tram-loads of arguments in defence will be
raised, and the utter lunacy of speaking of the
“foreigners” of Tasmania, as viewed from the
standpoint of the Commonwealth Constitution
will be the principal line of defence. Wren’s
Tote still flourishes as of yore, and more so
Perhaps Barrister Cuss will be able to find ari
Act of William Rufus or Boadicea to squelch
Wren’s proposition also.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Merely Mary Ann.”
Theatre Royal “Thunderbolt.”
Criterion “Robbery Under Arms.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “in Town.”
Her Majesty’s “The Orchid.”
Theatre Royal “The Betting'Book.”
Opera House Le Roy, Talma, and Bosco.
Athenaeum Hall The Bio-Tableau.
Fitzgerald’s Building.. Eroni Bros.’ Circus.
Alexandra Avenue Wirths’ Circus.
Prince’s Court The Chute, &e., &c.
Town Hall “ Everyman.”
Apparently, “L’Aiglon” wasn’t thought
quite the thing for Trafalgar Day ; so “ Camille,”
which Miss Brune played in Melbourne in the
early part of the year —at a time when “ Camilles”
were bursting out all over the country without
warning has been put on at Her Majesty’s,
?A C ] ney ’ to ln le we eh of waiting for
Merely Mary Ann.” And,, in a manner of
speaking, “Camille” is merely Mary Ann too.
f he as ex plosive as some people feared
that Miss Brune would make her; in fact, with
what seems like a fine effort of self-suppres-
sion, she preserves some eloquent silences
at moments when other Camilles have littered the
stage with hysterics. But there is little grace or
charm of manner about the French beauty with
the stormy Past, and the pampered Present, and
the great longing for a Future which won’t be a
Past later on. The primitive emotions are played
well enough ; Miss Brune 'bears herself admirably
also under the lash of her Armand’s tongue; and
no fault whatever can be found with the way in
which she dies. The final waiting for Armand is,
in fact, one of the finest things Miss Brune has
done. But generally there is no rare quality in
the performance, no delicate handling, no new
suggestions. And she has no help from her
Armand. Poy Redgrave puts no tenderness and
little passion into the part. If pa Duval knew
what a circumspect, matter-of-fact, deliberate
lover Ins youngster is, he probably wouldn’t make
half the fuss he does. J; B. Athol wood, as pa
.Duval, follows the ultra-starchy models of that
well-meaning old gentleman. But why make him
unnecessarily unpopular by keeping upthe ultra-
starchiness to the end ? Why not let him bend a
little, and show that, if he has the stern duties of
a father to perform, he has still the sympathies of
a mere man who can recognise the worth of sacri-
fice m others ? Miss Susie Vaughan is a suitably
frivolous Prudence, and one of the brighter fea-
tures of the performance.
** * *
Sydney evidently likes its bushranger, and
plenty of him. In spite of the opposition at the
Royal, Alfred Dampier at the Criterion has to
hang out early notices to the effect that the house
that gazes upon the doings of Starlight is full.
I lie audience always loves the ’ranger who is
altogether good and pure, but the good and pure
bushranger played by Alfred Dampier it just
adores in a blind, dog-like fashion. He has the
knack of making appear quite natural Starlight’s
arrival just m the nick of time to prevent Mor-
gan s bloodthirsty capers, and Starlight’s genero-
sity to the lady passengers, as Alfred Dampier
manages it, doesn’t look as though it were
done specially to please the gallery, but seems
to arise from genuine goodness of heart. These are
the little things that go to make a great actor,
and it is pleasant to have the leg pulled by such a
master of the art. Dampier, jun., now plays the
part of Warrigal, but, although he plays it very
well and with heaps of activity, Sydney has grown
accustomed of late to having' its Warrigal speak
with a Scotch accent. Young Alfred will
have to cultivate a Scotch accent for the expres-
sion “My worrd ! ” Miss Rose Dampier is inclined
to give Aileen Marston a most unbush-girl-like
drawl, but the other members of the company
back up the central figure as he deserves to be
backed up.
** * *
Miss Eugenie Duggan continues to bush-
range nightly under false pretences at Sydney
Royal, and Laurence Dunbar, as Thunderbolt, is
II °/ P ersori in the theatre who doesn’t
tumble” to the base deception. It is just as
well, of course, that he doesn’t. If he did, then
the most exciting parts in the melodrama of
Ambrose Pratt and A. S. Joseph would have to be
cut out, including the most ingenious and ex-
citing section of the story—the plan to sub-
stitute somebody else for Miss Duggan in
custody, followed by Thunderbolt’s extra-final
stickmg-up job in which he liberates Miss
Duggan, so that at 11 o’clock there isn’t
anybody in custody at all. Something ought to
be done, however, to improve matters with regard
to the arrest of Miss Duggan, in the first place,
lhe impression the scene leaves on this writer is
that Thunderbolt just about sacrifices the assistant,
who had saved his life, in order to again save
his own neck. There isn’t any hanging about to
see that the youngster is safe. And this casts a
reflection upon the benevolent bushranger’s char-
acter. The piece retains its popularity, however,
and its brisk movement has been appreciated by
large houses throughout the season.
** # *
Sydney Tivoli has a very strong team of
entertainers just now, there being no less than
five “star” turns to relieve the efforts of the
comedian with the bit of mirror stuck on his nose,
and the coon singer, and the sad soubrette, and
the other somewhat weary items. It is an axiom
of the variety business that you must not have all
the programme first-class : there must be variety
of good and bad, bright and dull. Rickards pro-
vides at present so unusual a number of first-class
turns and of good second-hand ones that the inter-
vals of dulness are very few. Latest comers
Crimmins and Gore —a lady who is certainly the
longest and thinnest yet seen on the vaudeville
stage (except as a living skeleton), and a man
who makes up as about the shortest and fattest on
record—open in a shriekingly funny sea-side
sketch, which gives more promise than is fulfilled
in their later efforts. But, on the whole, they are a
genuinely comic pair, and, with Hill and Whitaker,
Les Bruniu, Payen and Lucie, and Diamond and
Beatrice, give the public big value in mirth for its
money.
*Jj
A revival of “ The Orchid,” billed for six
nights only, broke out at Her Majesty’s (Melb.)
last Saturday with all the enthusiasm of a musical
comedy that has come to stay for three months.
Also, Melbourne vvas there in vast numbers ready
to roar at its Lauri (who took himself too boister-
ously at times) and receive the plaintive ballad of
“Little Mary ” with unqualified joy. When the
song was new a good many people, it seems, failed
to catch the true significance of its burden, but now
they all know what “Mary” means, and the effect is
more touching. For several reasons “The Orchid ”
is an easy matter for praise. The music bites
one’s ear, the story has humor and a pinch of salt
in it, and the chorus dressing is generally known
as a dream—or several dreams. Changes in the
cast since the previous production are Miss Olive
Godwin where Florence Young used to be, and
John Doran in place of the droll, careworn citizen
who formerly took charge of his uncle’s flower-pot
when he went away on the wrong honeymoon
Comment on the new comers can wait until next
week, should “The Orchid’s” second crop of
success remain standing in the Williamsonian field
longer than the advertised period. “ Veronique,”
for the first Australian time, is understood to be a
joy in waiting, but there are obvious business
reasons why the present revival shouldn’t be
hastily cut down.
** * *
At the Princess’s two more appearances of
the Jeffries-Knight Co. will close the season. To-
night (Thursday) Napoleon, of “ The Royal Di-
vorce, will meet his Waterloo and meditate upon
his fatal Rock for the last time, and to-morrow
The Lady of Lyons ” will retire tearfully to the
little back room, where the sleep of innocence no
villain dared to mar. “The Lady” is an old,
stilted play that lives on its acting opportunities
for the two heads of the co., and gets notably
handsome treatment from Julius Knight and Miss
J effries.
** & *
On Saturday the Players are to start at
Rie Princess’s six consecutive attempts at “In
Town a bold undertaking for a band of ama-
teurs, but a lively subject of conversation for their
friends, anyhow. The Players lately produced
“The French Maid” in very respectable style
(for amateurs), and they are approaching “In
Town ” with an air of confidence that tells of per-
sistent rehearsal and firm resolve.
*■ * * * v
The first of two performances of “ Every-
man ” is due at Melbourne Town Hall this after-
noon, the curtain if there be any curtain —rising
at 2.30 precisely. An interval of two days will
give the Old Morality Drama a chance to get
acclimatised before being repeated on Saturday
night. “Everyman,” needless to say, is not
divided into acts, or embellished with a ballet. It
was written by the monks of old, who didn’t
believe m intervals for refreshments, but were
mindful of the fact that Morality should not out-
stay its Christian welcome. The lesson lasts
about 90 minutes, so a matinee performance,
beginning at 2.30, may be appropriately discussed
over a subsequent cup of tea.
** * *
Bland Holt, also, is preparing a drama
with a seasonable moral in it, for the warning of
his brother Everyman. Bland’s morality is
entitled “The Betting Book, or the Gambling
Evil and it will be impressively presented at
Melbourne Royal on Saturday next (28th).
** * *
The Prince s Bridge district of Melbourne
just now looks as though it had been dolled up
tor some more Jook o’ York celebrations. On the
one side a long stretch of Alexandra Avenue is
festooned with colored electric lamplets, and its
nanie for the present is “Fairy Grove ”or
Angel Lane,” or “The Heavenly Way,”
the title in any case signifying the approach
ros : er |ts. A show that opens
with a long illuminated procession to the
pay-boxes is expected to supply a bright enter-
tainment. Wirths’ show meets all the demands
ot an excited populace. The best “turns” in
their previous circus are repeated this time. Some
or these old items have been improved by elabora-
tion, or condensation, and the tigers that gambolled
of yore are now assisted by a further tiger, who
rides a tricycle. In the educated-horse department
the performance of the dandy quadrupeds is
w-A outshone by the shirt-front of Philip
Wirth, their ruler. William M‘Cloud, the long-
haired lassooer, is a notable member of the co.,
likewise a slick Australian Kelly who can slay a
mosquito with a stock-whip from afar off. An
alarming stranger flings bowie-knives at a nice
joung girl for the purpose of not hitting her,
and when the rest of the circus—from the
oacred Elephant clown to the dummy clown—-
has performed with credit, there comes Chefalo,
m ii^ emon the Death Trap. A while age
Melbourne saw a dejected old eagle loop the loop
on a bicycle, at Rickards’, but the unhappy bird
traversed a plain, straightforward loop, differing
from Chefalo’s track in the one particular which
provides the audience with its thrill. Chefalo is


There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used ; has 100 different
uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
Griffith and Allan, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne —(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases fin six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of all chemists. PARIS MEDICINE CO., Temple
Chambers, London, E.O. England.*
Spraying Fruit Trees.— Mr. G. A. Jones
writes from Bomaderrv ' —l have about 700 orchard trees,
and everyone says they are the cleanest trees they have
ever seen. I attribute their cleanliness and freedom from
disease solelv to proper spraying. I have used every kind
of wash for diseases of fruit trees that has been recom-
mended by the Government, but Sunlight Soap is the best
of them ail. It will cure a tree of San Jose scale, or red
scale, or olive scale. One tablet of Sunlight Soap should
be sliced up into two gallons of water and boiled until the
soap is dissolved, and, when nearly cold, spray on the trees
in the afternoon, when the sun is not too hot. For peach
aphides (which come on the tree when the trees are in
blossom and eat all the flowers off, which disease does
some thousands of pounds’ worth of harm in New South
Wales every year) I make the solution stronger, that is,
I add two tablespoonfuls of Lever’s Dry Soap (Sunbeam
Washing Powder) to every four gallons of the above spray,
and I spray the trees just before the buds burst. It will
also kill tlie aphides on rose trees, cabbages, and, Swede
turnips.*
Send us your address and we will post you a
pamphlet gratis how to purify acetylene gas. Brandt
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney, and Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.*,
doomed to break his neck, or otherwise hurt him-
self, if a vacant space at the bottom of the loop
were not suddenly filled in whilst he travels head
downwards to the point of danger. Up to now
the deficiency has been promptly supplied, and
the mechanism of Vne death-trap is beyond re-
proach in the meantime.
* * * *
On the other side of St. Kilda-road the
lights of Prince’s Court lend an air of festivity to
the neighborhood, whilst Fitzgeralds’ Building
shines with the announcement of Eroni Bros.
Circus. The Eroni banner waves over a circus
where the pink acrobat flies freely from a trapeze,
and the horse “ turns” are mostly, feats of human
prowess on the patient gee-gee’s back. Miss
Eroni wends her way upon a wire. Chas. Eroni
appears in various circus capacities. Master
James Eroni commits equestrian flip-flaps, and
the programme is fully half-a-yard long.
*■ * * *
At the Athenaeum Hall the Bio-Tableau is
happening 12 times a week, new pictures being so
frequent that the oldest get no chance to lag
superfluous on the stage.
** * $
A Melbourne correspondent scoffs :
The burlesque landing of Captain Cook at Botany Bay,
which some foolish persons carried out during the Com-
monwealth celebrations, was recalled at Melbourne Town
Hall, on Saturday evening last, when some misguided
persons perpetrated a fake tableau of the Death of Nelson.
The affair was sufficiently ridiculous to cause Nelson to be
remembered by the youngsters who witnessed the show
as a cross between George Lauri and Tommy Bent at his
best. One of the .most amusing features of the shivoo
was the appearance of all the noble tars of Trafalgar with
short hair. The committee guilty of this degradation of
a great historical event to the level of a Dan Barry melo-
drama had been seeking for a week for pigtail wigs, but
Bland Holt had cornered the Melbourne pigtail market,
and none were available. Just as the show was about to
open, on Saturday evening, a breathless yellow gentleman
arrived from “ Lillybuk-stleet ” with the offer of 50 false
pigtails used in Chow processions. He was dismissed
with scorn.
** * *
At the Opera House the golden harvest-
time has been marked by some further varia-
tions in the performances, but all the names
on the bill are what they were a fortnight ago and
earlier. The Mephisto illusionists accounted for
the boom at the outset; the Jackson Family and
other people help towards the rejection of hard
cash on Saturday nights. Ryder Slone is an artist
among comic songsters. His ditty concerning
Muggins might be a poor thing enough if another
man gave it lip in an orthodox music-hall way.
Slone is an unorthodox workman, and his Muggins
appeals to a mixed audience’s heart.
** * *
The only show to appear in Adelaide
Royal these days is that which the builders are
putting up in their endeavor to satisfy the City
Corporation on the safety of the exits. The
Tivoli gets the benefit. Thurston has moved on
with his spontaneously-generated ducks and the
lady without any visible means of support, but
Edward Lauri and May Beatty have come in, and
are giving their old piece, “The Skirt Dancer,”
with very nearly the old company. Manager
Marcus, for years Rickards’ representative at
this house, is in charge of Stephenson’s co. The
Perth City Band has been playing in the Town
Hall on its way to Ballarat, and Maggie Stirling
is in the Hall at present. The garden fete at
Government House, after three strenuous days
and nights, panned out at about £3OOO profit, to
be divided between the-Maternity Home and two
other local nursing charities.
The Age of September 1 (this is going a
little back) reported Mr. R. J. Alcock, of Mel-
bourne, as having asked the Minister for Trade
and Customs at a deputation re the Commerce
Bill that'“merchants should not be required to
brand each tin with the number of ounces of jam
or other stuff it. contained ; that it should be
sufficient if they stated the exact weight to the
men to whom they sold the goods and did not de-
ceive them.” On.this The Bulletin commented,
Sept. 14, that the suggestion was a “ cheeky ” one,
and showed a notion of business ethics not likely
to be generally commended. Subsequent inquiry
and correspondence with Mr. Alcock shows that
that comment was based on some misapprehen-
sion and therefore not fair. The deputation, it
seems, was discussing the export trade, and the
request was made that it should not be necessary
to put the weights on packages of goods exported
to Asia, so long as the buyer was not deceived.
Mr. Alcock writes
It was felt that the producers and manufacturers should
not be debarred from supplying their goods for export to
foreign countries in any size packages demanded, pro-
vided, of course, that there was no attempt at misrepre-
sentation. It was never for a moment suggested by me
or any member of the deputation that a different weight
should be marked on the package to that it contained.
That puts a quite different complexion on the
matter. To sell to John Chinaman a tin of jam
with no weight marked (which he is presumably
quite content to buy as a tin and on which a
weight label would convey no useful information to
him) is fair business; to sell locally a 14oz. tin of
jam branded as containing 16oz. would be pretty
close to robbery. The Bulletin regrets that the
earlier comments (based on a newspaper report
which was hardly accurate) did Mr. Alcock an
injustice, and is glad to make this amende after a
full inquiry into the facts.
Something like the most amazing citizen on
record sought redress from the Prahran (Melb.)
Bench lately, when John St. Clair Farquhar
Kirkpatrick charged his wife with the larceny of
a packet of letters, which he valued at £l5O.
Boiled down, the recent history of Kirkpatrick
disclosed that, when a clerk in the Union Bank,
two years ago, he married a handsome young
woman, with whom he was still living. Pie had
left his situation eight months ago, and had been
more or less loafing on a friend since then. Six
months after marriage be became acquainted with
a young lady, whom he subsequently betrayed,
and it was her love letters —which his wife had
found and taken possession of—-that he wanted to
recover. He solemnly assured the Bench that he
“would not take the title deeds of the city of
Prahran for them,” and explained that he had
arranged to elope with the ruined girl. Appa-
rently, however, he had neglected to do it, and
added one more to a record of failures. The
Bench dismissed the charge with scorn, and called
Mr. Kirkpatrick a name not often heard in the
law courts.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Thorold Waters Judging from the press appraisement
of him, and the one scant par that chronicled his death in
Melbourne, few Australians seem to have understood the
position once held in the English singing world by the late
veteran tenor William Parkinson. I always knew that he
had been a big man in his day, but until coming to
England I never dreamt that he had been so big that 20
years’ burial as a singing coach in a Melbourne suburb
had not sufficed to obliterate his memory. Now before
me is a recently published book of “ Musical Recollec-
tions,” by Bessie Palmer, .once at the top of the list of
English oratorio singers, in which several references are
made to Parkinson, and a quoted criticism relates that
“ for years we have,heard Mr. Parkinson sing, and though
always pleasing, he seems now to have so completely
mastered and improved his voice as to be as near a great
singer as it is possible to be. . . . He fairly stormed the
house.” Within the past year his name has recurred
several times in London journals, and a couple of months
ago the Daily Telegraph, in chronicling the death of an
opera star, laid a special tribute at the feet of the retiring
old tenor, who has passed out in Melbourne with so little
notice. In the North of England, to mention that you
were a friend of “Bill” Parkinson is to secure open
sesame to the hearts of the Geordies. I remember as a
pressman being recalled from a holiday to help write a
page of “ weep ” about Softgoods Sargood when he died.
Parkinson achieved a 12-line' par in just one paper. At
this distance the contrast is particularly striking.
A wail from Perth “ Someone ought to speak to
somebody about these theatrical. companies. A little
entertainment is good in'season, and not unbecoming a
philosopher ; but the spectacle: of six companies desper-
ately fighting for the patronage of a one-show town is a
worry to the mind and a weariness to the flesh. Perth, at
time of writing, is very much entertained —and very much
tired. Williamson’s Repertoire Co. is Gilbert and Sulli-
vaning at His Majesty’s ; Johnny Sheridan is mashing
‘The Lady Slavey’ at the Royal ; Nellie Stewart is wait-
ing for an opening to plant ‘ Sweet Nell's ’ feet upon the
boards; and Stephenson’s opera, co. waves its limbs and
whirls its lingerie in the background.Bostock and VVom-
bell’s menagerie has just been let loose upon this afflicted
town, and Wirths’ circus is threatened. Leonard Davis
has arrived to re-open the Palace Gardens; the ‘J.P.’
company is announced, and a visitation from Harry
Rickard's is a matter of daily dread. On Sunday nights
the bands wrestle with the parsons for the threepence,
and theatrescopes and orchestral societies, and other
small fry, fill up the week.”
Tom Burrows, the world’s record club-swinger, has left
S’Africa for Australia under engagement, it is said, to
Rickards. His match against Lloyd went the full 54
hours, both men standing to the end. Burrows got the
verdict.
This case seems to have happened specially to justify
Andersonian melodrama, wherein' the hero meets the
villain in the middle of Senegambia and casually remarks,
“ You here ! ” A Gippsland resident wandered into the
Yarra the other day, and was subsequently put into the
morgue. A few hours, later the Gippslander’s grandson
also" wandered into the Yarra, and was subsequently
placed alongside the other corpse. The corpses hadn’t
met before for years, and as far as anyone knows, had
both got .into the mud by accident.
Irving’s greatest distinction came to him after death.
He was the first man to have his ashes buried in West-
minster Abbey. His predecessors, turned to dust in the
old gruesome way, or were embalmed and are decaying
slowly. None of them was cremated.
Henry Irving never forgot his tutor William Hoskins—
who practically started him in “ the profession,” and on
two occasions sent £lOO when Hoskins was in a bad way
n Melbourne. ].
The Sydnev, Summer Nights Amusement Syndicate
hopes to turn an honest penny by means of the motor
craze. It has announced a gymkhana on Sydney Agri-
cultural Ground. One event is “Musical Cars.” The
motor-cars are to waltz round the arena, each with a
motorist and a lady inside, while the band plays. In the
middle of the ground there are to be a number of flags,
and when the band stops playing all hands drop out of
their motors and make a dash for the flags. It isn’t very
clear what happens afterwards, but presumably the
swiftest lady gets the best flag. Whether the slow ladies
have to kiss anybody by way of forfeit isn’t known yet.
Lingering’ memories of “ Our Boys,” a popular drama of
his younger days, seem to have helped to inspire Premier
Bent’s favorite saying that he always takes off his hat to
a cow. In the play, butterman Middlewick remarks :
“ Out of bacon alone I made a small independence. Why,
I never comes across a pig in the street now but what I
feels inclined to take off my ’at to it.”
“ Edyson ” : Although I cannot call myself one of the
younger generation of playgoers, it was my lot to see
“Our Boys” for the first time at the Bijou the other
night. I ' went mainly because it is one of the plays of
our fathers. Since my earliest youth I had heard “Our
Boys ” raved about as the height of excruciating comedy,
and my expectations were great. I found it uncommonly
dull. ‘Possibly the acting was responsible for much of
its -loom, as many of the actors who couldn’t and many
of the actresses who shouldn’t, were, engaged in the
lamentable execution of Byron s comedy. .But the
retired Butterman was the work of an old favorite in the
part and ancient critics assure me through the press
that he has lost none of his drollery. Yet I didn’t find
that representative of ancient grease any more comic
than an ignorant alderman at a banquet in our tune.
There is more material for laughter in three minutes of
Pinero's policeman in “Dandy Dick’’than in the three
acts of Perkyn Middlewick.
The late Herbert Campbell, a cockney music-hall singer,
whose bio- rasping voice and rough humor made him a
valuable'’comedian in the Drury Lane panto, for many
years left a few thousand pounds behind him. Also he is
said to have left a last will and testament in some dark
place which has not been discovered. A law suit re the
rnissin-- will turned mainly on the question whether
Campbell’s unwed wife (of 12 years standing) was
entitled to the three-fourths of the income from his
estate, which he had bequeathed to her in a draft will.
Testator’s executors propounded this draft, and the court
finally decided that it was a reasonable document and
should be admitted to probate. But by the time the
opposition was defeated Herbert Campbell’s estate had
passed away in legal expenses. One of the counsel
engaged jauntilv remarked that “ the oyster had gone.”
Only" the shell'was left for the dead man’s best girl.
Moral—Don’t lose your will after your decease.
“Kaylee”: Saw my first living Aunt Sally at the
Adelaide Government House Charity fete and have
pondered much on the possible consequences supposing
several people had chanced to hit their alleged relative
Sarah at the same time. Government House might not
only have been left with a dead Aunt Sally on its hands,
but the Law might have had to arrest all fashionable
Adelaide for manslaughter. Some day a man with a
straight eye will come along and hit the lady on a tender
spot and there will be results. It might be wise if
Parliament made Aunt Sally Slaughter a crime punishable
by a fine not exceeding 2s. 6d.
THE BEER-CHEWER.
COUNTRY SHAP: “ I’m just about to have a drink,
old boy. Join me? ”
WEARY WILLIE: “ Certainly. You'll excuse me
for not refusin."
“ Yarrab ” : A late production of “ The Fires of St.
John ” has set the dramatic scribes of this country ablaze
with comparisons of Sudermann and Ibsen. Though
the aforesaid conflagration flared up for a night only, the
embers of the paper men’s ideas of the two dramatists
still smoulder. ’Tvvixt Sudermann and Ibsen there is a
wide difference. Though they in places apparently belong
to the same school, the former is merely a carcase
butcher, the latter a skilled surgeon. Sudermann takes
hold of a theme, and, though often varnishing beautifully
with literary embellishment, fails in execution. Fails
also in technique. He throws his opinions roughly,
immaturely, before the public. His plays, which con-
tinually joit in action, all end abruptly. With the forcible
old Norseman the work is differently executed. The
natural order of things is Unswervingly maintained, and
though ofttimes descending into the morbid and the
antagonistic in order to obtain the and
shade, the rhythm is gloriously kept. He Ynoves his
characters with chess-like precision, and though his
command of literary adornment is comparatively finite,
his treatment and choice of characters are so admiiably
arranged that Ibsen leaves a lasting impression where
Sudermann would only cause a remark. To maintain
that the white-headed old -NprwegiSh and the rough
carpenter from Germany are allied, in class and style is a
fallacy. ' ",
“Melb.”: Bob Heir, the once popular actor, was
touched upon at the meeting of the Dramatic and Musical
Association, the other day. His grave at Invercargill
(Maoriland) is neglected, but good resolutions were made
about putting it in order.. G. V. Brooke came to Mel-
bourne accompanied by Miss Cathcart, as his pupil. Heir
joined the company in Melbourne, under Mr. Coppm. His
engaging teacher was Miss Cathcart. They married. The
most distinct recollection of them now is in their support
of Barry Sullivan throughout his long and distinguished
management. J. F. Cathcart (Mrs. Heir s brother) came
with Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Kean. The Heirs played in
opposition, with Sullivan at the Royal, while the Keans
were at the Hayniarket.
“S.S.”: Noting the feminine enthusiasm over Julius
Knight’s somewhat meaty, somewhat Napoleonic, des-
perately humorless David Garrick, and remembering how
female Melbourne once took to the slimmer, brighter,
neater David of “Curly” Bellew, I profess to discover a
decided change in the Australian woman’s taste for actor
man. She liked him spare and trim when Bellew was on
these boards, but she now asks for fat with her actor.
Julius tends that way, so did the recent American, Mack.
Certainly Cuyler Hastings had hard,edges, and. was not
fatter than a'hurdle, but after all he did not get a real
hannnerlock on the affections of the girl, the girleen, and
the elder specimens. On the whole, I think Tom Bent
made the mistake of his life in not sticking to the stage
when he took to it.
Florence Young was in a sensational boat accident in
the Hudson before leaving America, and a damp and
clammy Australian song bird was fished out of the river
after being in the water longer than was good for her. A
boat in which Flo and a bunch of friends were picnicking
turned turtle ; hence the excessive dampness and the
over-Flo. . .
The committee of the Ararat (Vic.)A.N.A. competitions
decided last week that they didn’t want Bent to give
away the prizes, lest he might inflict a recitation or a
comic song upon the audieii.ee. Ararat is a self-respecting
place, not yet educated up.to Bent’s uproarious humor.
“ Yarrab ” : What combinations apropos the occasion
are sometimes fluked by the biograph. On the evemng-of
Yom Kippur, I journeyed into the “Pa ace to see a bit
of the world whirled before me. One film revealed The
Wandering Jew” laboriously trudging over a broken
landscape with a liberal rock formation. The faulty
macadam upset the locomotion of the Peripatetic Semite,
and he spread down in an old elo’ heap to sleep. His
dream depicted the Journey to Calvary, and he awoke
with an expression on his face akin to mortal dread. A
quartette of the Chosen People—two of each sex-sitting
on my starboard side, grinned at the whole performance,
and one of the ladies voted it “ boskar. Truly, the Day
of Atonement hath lost its significance.
Horace Lingard made his first Melbourne appearance at
the Royal (March, 1876) as Perkin Middlewick, in Our
p )OVS ” —a part which he recently played again, for the
manyth time, at the Bijou. On its first Melbourne pro-
duction the piece ran for eight weeks to overflowing
houses. Dampier played Talbot Champneys, and the
beautiful Alice Dunning Lingard was Mary Melrose.
“ o’F.” : The man who wants to tell you how it is done
has been strongly in evidence at Melbourne theatres
lately. I vainly tried both entreaty and insult to make
him refrain from telling me all of Thurston’s secrets. He
(or another of his detestable race) insisted on explaining
the coin and flag manipulation at Rickards show, and a
few nights later he wanted to teach me how to give the
illusions of Leroy, Talma, and Bosco next time 1 was at
an evening party. I thought I would be free from him at
“The Cingalee,” but the unspeakable pest bobbed up
With information about Lauri’s Thurston travesty. It
was the last straw. I took him out, ostensibly for a
drink, and he is now being advertised for daily 1,1 the
“ Missing Fiends ” column. In justification I may plead
that I don’t want to know how the tricks are done ; I
prefer to remain in awed ignorance. And if I did want
to know I would consult a manual of legerdemain and
illusion at the Public Library, instead of listening to the
qackle of some fool, who knows everything but does
nothing.
Henry James Byron, author of “Our Boys” (recently
revived in Melbourne), turned out in 25 years at least
130 plays lone-handed, besides collaborating- with Bouci-
cault, Farnie, etc., and appearing as an actor. H. 6 was
responsible for 10 of the plays produced in London in
1871. In his burlesques, Byron was the most inveterate
punster of the pun-worshipping period, which ended with
the decline of Nellie Farren, and the replacement of
burlesque by musical comedy.
Carrie Moore, it seems, has scored the hit she was ex-
pected to make in the “ Blue Moon,” at the Lyric Theatre
(London), where she has just such a chance as she used to
get in the Williamson show's. A recent Poverty Pointer,
referring to the fact that the Australian girl was not
going to be the “ prima donna ” of the co., misrepresented
the situation somewhat. “ The Blue Moon ” appears to
be much of a muchness with “The Cingalee” (the scene
laid in Burma instead of Ceylon), and Carrie Moore’s part
corresponds to Rose Musgrove’s in the other musical
comedy, whilst the principal ballad singer (a Miss Florence
Smithson) fills a place similar to that given to Miss
Thomas in “The Cingalee.” Both girls are warmly
praised, the one as a dainty ingenue vocalist only, and
Carrie as a dashing, w'arbling comedienne. She, like Rose
Musgrove, has a duet with the funny man, in which an
imitation of the Pygmies bears a strong family resemblance
to the Gollyw'og business of Rose Musgrove and Lauri. Her
old colleague, Harold Thorley, is a successful hero of the
flimsy yarn, and the production is generally praised for
splendid staging and pretty faces. So Carrie Moore has
made a name in an important London attraction —thanks
to the fact that the show is run by Robert Courtneidge,
who selected her (for a Liverpool panto, in the first
instance) on his personal knowledge of her Australian
merits. “ The Blue Moon ”is Courtneidge’s first big
speculation in London, and, because he backed his judg-
ment of the Williamsonian co.’s “form” by engaging two
ex-members for first-class parts, theatre-goes on this side
will wish him luck. Writing of Carrie Moore’s perform-
ance to a friend in Melbourne he says it was “very good,”
with the “ very ” underlined, which, coming from him, is
equivalent to ‘a string of florid adjectives from a more
effusive critic.
Marie Studholme, who may head an Edwardes company
that comes to Australia next year to play “Lady Mad-
cap” and other pieces, is perhaps the most-photographed
woman in the w'orld. She is enormously popular just
now. At Dublin, t’other day, 18 policemen were em-
ployed to keep the crow'd away from the stage door. This
paper doesn’t believe it, but will try to look as if it did.
“Lam”: They are genuine, all genuine. Not only do
the open work stockings prove it, but I have it from the
lips of his dresser, who raves over them with enthusiasm.
Be it understood that I speak of Julius Knight’s legs—the
ones he displays w'hen he plays Microbe Tremendous.
After abandoning the concert platform for a couple of .
years, Queensland soprano Florence Schmidt is returning
to the old love, and intends to give a recital in London
during the autumn, whilst she is also on the warpath for
other engagements. When marrying sculptor Derwent
Wood, the Bananaland songstress was urged by her hus-
band to give up concert-singing, and the matter was
clinched when she lost some hundreds through the failure
of a leading London manager. A return to the platform
after retirement inevitably' means the repetition of much
uphill work even to those who have been most successful,
and Miss Schmidt shows considerable pluck in her new
decision.
It is twenty-one years since Mary Anderson first
appeared in Gilbert’s “ Comedy and Tragedy” at London
Lyceum. W. Muskerry’s “ Davy Garrick ”is also past its
first youth. With Edward Compton playing lead, it was
produced-at London Strand in 1886. The playwrights
snatched Garrick for a hero almost before the breath was
out of his body. A farce, entitled “Garrick in the
Shades, or A Peep into Elysium,” was produced soon after
his death in 1779, He is the principal male character in
at least nine plays, besides being introduced in many
other plavs and novels. The authors of most of these
works depict a painfully ideal Garrick, instead of the
mean man who reproved his temporary domestic partner,
Peg Woffington, because she didn’t count the leaves she
put in the teapot. The Garrick worshippers also forget
to record that when the affair was broken off, Peg
promptly returned the presents David had given her, but
her miserly ex-lover could not be induced to part with
the diamond shoe-buckles she had given him.
“ Melb.” : We expect something great from Williamson
in pantomime this year. It will be remembered that last
season he-was choked off through a shipwreck of props.
A photographer in the North of England claims that be
has set up a record in the sale of photo post-cards with
that of Mary Conly, erst of Melbourne. The plump little
soprano is now a festival singer in the critical north of
Chamberlain Land, and is far and away the most popular
vocalist visiting Scarborough, Bridlington, and other
Yorkshire watering places. This is attested by the fact
that, in a single week at Bridlington recently, 1254 of her
photo post-cards were.sold at one shop. The photo-
grapher says he had never before sold more than 100 cards
of even the greatest of stars in one week.
Old Joseph Docker, a politician of the
past, and father of the present Judge Docker, was
the first person to receive a grant of land in Aus-
tralia under the charter by which the East India
Company was entitled to property in a general
way “ east of the Cape of Good Hope.” The pro-
perty was situated near Scone (N.S.W.), and there
Joseph, with his lately-wedded wife, began the
Docker career. Joseph died in 1884, but the
widow survived till about a year ago, reaching the
long age of 95.
A whoop from Victoria :
The Melbourne police, being notoriously incapable of
capturing the right man “ on information received,” seem
bent on putting up records for prosecuting the wrong
man after their precious information has been proved
worthless. Last week a soft-headed farm laborer from up
country was standing on the Melbourne wharf with a view
to voyaging to Geelong (a sort of place which would
materially appeal to such a person) when a spieler came
along, borrowed £3 10s. and left him for ever. Somebody
advised the absurd person to go to the police, and presently
a detective took him in tow, whereupon poor Juggins
pointed to a respectable citizen as the man who had
borrowed his seventy shillings, and a prosecution resulted.
The prosecution, under the circumstances, was a police
outrage, for the detective admitted in court that the
accused man had given a perfectly satisfactory account of
himself, as a carpenter and contractor, and all his move-
ments from the time he left his home until he was taken
into custody. Police inquiries had practically proved an
alibi, in addition to showing that the accused was above
suspicion of being the man wanted, apart from the alibi.
But the fat-headed yokel from Euroa had given the police
a case, and they were not going to relinquish it because it
was obviously rotten. “ I’ve done nothing,” said the inof-
fensive victim in the old music-hall yarn. “ Neither have
I,” said the constable who casually grabbed him by
the collar, “ I’ve done nothing for six months, and I’m a
disgrace to the Force. So, come on.” Magistrate Panton
summed up the outrage in a few well-chosen snorts:
“ This case shows the misfortune a man may have to put
up with in Melbourne. If the police set about their work
in this way, any lunatic may come down from the country
and have anyone arrested.” Mr. Panton furthermore
remarked that, from the description of the spieler given
in the warrant, the police should be able to arrest him at
once. But thev wouldn’t be typical Melbourne police if
they often did the right thing. They’d be a disgrace to
O’Oallaghan’s Force.
THE LITTLE SHOWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They travel through the ways of all the earth,
In lands of snow and sun ;
They judge the world of men by what it’s worth
When all is said and done.
They rove throughout the land of silver sheen,
They brave the sleets and snows,
These remnants of the things that might have been
The Little Shows.
With beauteous face, and free and facile tongue,
And hopes that all-time burn,
’Twas from those ranks the brightest stars have sprung
(And to those ranks return !).
But they still dream, like boys, of fame-to-be—
The dream that comes and goes,
And furnishes With farce and tragedy
Our Little Shows.
No march of triumph rich with garlands fair,
No blazoned path for them ;
They take their rest in Nature’s open air,
Or in the tents of Shem.
Out in the ghostly glare of western lamps,
Or where the gaslight glows
In towns, or in the roaring mining camps,
The Little Shows.
They find the lonesome spots of all the earth,
Where day has long been dumb ;
They bring the furthest outpost songs of mirth,
And laughter to the slum.
So from the luckless day they make their start
Until their chapters close,
I’ll keep for them a corner in my heart,
The Little Shows.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


ISOd ONIdaUMMooS
We qualify for Positions as BOOKKEEPERS
ACCOUNTANTS, &c.
I'Ve Prepare for all ...
Accountants’ Examinations.
“llomk Study” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S Business College,
fIOORE STREET, SYDNEY. [l.
jrIEBEATei)
f
(OJ2SET.;
EXQUISITE MODELS. & PERFECT FIT,
* * GUARANTEED WEAR, J*
THE NFW
P. D.
...CORSETS
♦
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside,
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.
SOCIETY
CANADIAN
CLUB
WHISKY
At a Melbourne municipal feast the other
day, Mr. John Madden, of the soaped moustache,
said he remembered the time when the council table
was a gum log and the councillors sat on the top
of a rail fence. John did not say that the mayor’s
banquet of that day was baked ’possum and burnt
damper, but it seems a probable event. Mayoral
banquets and trappings have improved since
then. Whether alderman have done so or not, ho
one knows, but many have doubts.
* * * *
Director Maiden of the Botanical Gardens,
Sydney, has drawn up for the information of
N.S.W. Parliament a weighty series of arguments
against the proposal to seize on the Macquarie-
street frontage of the Domain as a site for the new
Public Library. As he points out, that would
involve the destruction of the very crown of a
notable pleasaunce—the wooded knoll from which
a wonderful view stretches to the Heads. There
is just as good a library site at Cook Park. There
is not in all Sydney such a view spot as the
Macquarie-street entrance to the Domain.
HER CRUMB OF COMFORT.
"I so lore opals isn’t it a pity that they are considered unlucky?"
“Don’t worry, dear. Yours are probably only imitations.”
Evidently the success of the Maoriland
footballers has “narked” some of the cockney
newspapers and won the condescending approval
of others. The Daily Mail sent a telegram to
King Dick, expressing its British amazement at
the brilliancy of the—haw ! —colonials’ playing,
and asking whether their victories against a
succession of dear old Ma Country teams hadn’t
made their compatriots feel awfully proud, don-
cherknow. Seddon having replied in a suitably
Imperial strain, a scornful other journal—the
Westminster Gazette— got its hair off. True,
the visitors had been wiping the grass with a
number of local football teams, but was this
“quite the sort of thing for a Premier to talk
about ? ” asked the W.G.
* * * *
Seddon unfortunately hasn’t a sense of
humor. Else when the Daily Mail sent that
leg-pulling request for his views on the brawn of
the Maoriland footballer, the frozen-mutton patriot
would have replied, “No astonishment this coun-
try victories Maoriland footballers over English.
Our men fed on best Christchurch lamb (to be
bought in London at M.L. Government depots),
which explains their prowess.”
Victoria has had something of an outbreak
of crime among its children. An 11-year-old boy
came before the Bendigo police court charged with
climbing into a store through the skylight in order
to steal cigarette cards from the packets on the
shelves. Next day another 11-year-old in Colling-
wood was convicted of snatching a woman’s purse.
1 inally, the same week, three youngsters—l 3, 11,
and 10 years—broke into the Baptist Sunday-
school in Portland, and rifled the missionary-box
of its pennies. The front names of four of these
criminals were an aggravation of the offence;
they were called, respectively, Cecil, Stanley,
Esmond, and Nelson. The fifth boy was named
Bill. The only deteriorating influence in Bill’s
life was the fact that he had won a first prize in
the Sunday-school he helped to loot.
* * « *
That chubby, elderly Cupid, Dr. Bevan,
of Collins-street Independent Church, has re-
turned from his English wanderings, and tells the
Argus that he discovered much dislike and
distrust of Australians in the Cold Country,
“ mainly,” he says, “due to unfortunate examples
of Australian character which the South African
war brought into prominence.” So, after all the
gush and enthusiasm about the contingents, the ser-
vice done to the Empire is recollected only because
of a few larrikins who broke up a bar or two in
Capetown, and a Bush veldt Carbineer who got
himself shot by mistake, or for doing what he
didn’t ought to —nobody quite knows which. Next
time Australia sends contingents abroad, it should
recruit them from the Y.M.C.A. and thus make
sure that they will behave up to the high moral
standard expected of Thomas Atkins.
* * * *
The Age tells of a Melbourne suburban
J.P. who delivered a stern ungrammatical address
to a youthful prisoner, and ordered 12 months’ im-
prisonment, whereupon prisoner retorted scorn-
fully, Gram, Whiskers, yer carn’t do it!”
“It’s done, sir, and entered,” said his Worship
severely. “ Look ’ere, d’yer know what yer
about ? What’s the charge ? ” “ Attempted
larceny. We must teach you fellows a lesson.”
“Well, yer carn’t give more’n three months
for attempted larceny.” Then his Worship fell
over things, consulting authorities, and it was a
squelched J.P. who hastily reduced the sentence
to a quarter of a year.
* * * *
It is proposed to establish a military college
at Sydney University. A wise step certainly, if
m other directions a movement were being made
towards national defence. But the establishment
of steel works and factories for the production of
ammunition and large and small arms are the first
essentials, and until these are supplied the teach-
ing of military tactics at a college is mere frill.
Thus “ L.E.”:—
Beware of the girl who carries a book under her arm !
The book is her bait, her pinch of salt, her toasted cheese,
to ensnare the foolish male. It’s reckoned to make her
look interesting and intellectual ; and there are hundreds
of girls who use this subtle weapon (mainly poem-hooks
and up-to-date novels). Many a gilded youth has gone
under to an unread Iveats or blue-covered Byron—even to
a ca,lf-bound Eric Macka.v. A variation is a bundle of
music, even though the owner can’t play the pianola or
Jew’s harp ; or a paint box, though she can’t draw beer.
Beware, therefore, young man, of the sesthetic maiden
with paint, music, or books ! Bernard Shaw observes
that the modern Don Juan is the female. She lurk after
the shv male with divers weapons. And when they meet
their fate, both generally deserve it. Young man, marry
the girl who is carrying home the groceries.
imm y S.,' on the interesting question
( Yarrum,” B. 28/9/’O5) whether there’s some-
thing in the atmosphere of the coal-mine that
Stines the craving for drink :
Certain it is that in many instances reasonable work in
the mine deadens the craving for drink ; but the same
applies to every sort of honest labor. Still, the smell of
powder smoke, skip grease, stink damp, coal dust, and a
few other items should undoubtedly make an excellent
pick-me-up , a bottled preparation with a fancy label and
a catchy name would make a splendid drink cure and the
inventor s fortune. But For instance, our cross-mate
got within I°o yards of the pit this morning. The iii'dit
"fVL Pa T? hini reeking with perspiration and the smell
of the pit, from its boots to its grimy hat. Yet all to no
~W lnds ad balmy with whisky scent blew through
the half-opened door, and the pub. regained its own.
Then there was old B , who worked in the pit and
kept a pub. Or rather Mrs. B kept the nub and
occasionally managed to keep B out of it. When she
didn t he got drunk there, and when she did he got
drunker elsewhere. He generally succeeded in filling his
water-bottle on a pay-Monday morning and getting down
the pit. Ihe effect of the pit air on him was wonderful
He worked like a Trojan, until he got a heap of slack
coal. Then he lay down on it and emptied the bottle.
Knew another, who chewed blasting powder to deaden
the craving for drink when in the pit. (Out of the pit he
eadened the craving with drink.) Have seen him, after
run from the pit mouth to the pub., and, with
trembling hand, vainly endeavor to raise the glass to his
lips ~when he couldn’t get it that way he bent his head
tremor? ked ’ aft6r Whlch he lifted the glass with °ut a
Hard drinking is mostly confined to the bullocker or
‘coal-eater” and the loafer. The steady hewer eithe?
has a social glass, and stops at that, or is a total ah
Stainer. Only knew one great coal-eater who not a
drunkaid, and he was in the Salv’army. This class is
upindlvfd r L f , aCllity by ul,scr "P ul ous employers to work
thl fln wage-averages, to the detriment of those of
their fellow-workers who keep going steadilv tL v
generally become shattered hulks between 38 and 45
compelled to offer their labor and manhood at any price
a menace to Unionism and a curse to the community.
GOING TO THE BALL.
MR. DULLOUND: “ You needn't have been so
particular over your toilet. Only nobodies
will be there.”
MRS. DULLOUND : “ Well , I thought I'd like to
look extra nice, so that you might perhaps
ask me to dance.”
One of our brown brothers from Japan has
started his popular national industry in Mel-
bourne. He was charged at the City Court, the
other day, with keeping a house for immoral pur-
poses m a lane off Little Bourke-street. The
three ladies found on the premises were appa-
rently daughters of Australia, and one of them
pleaded respectability, on the ground that she
attended to the domestic duties for ss. a week
* * * *
A matter concerning two legacies was
mentioned last week in a Sydney police
court. The legatees were two sisters, and the
mention arose out of the fact that one was on her
way to Callan Park Asylum as the result of
drinking methylated spirits, and the other, for
the same reason, was bound for a Rescue Home.
Wealth came to them unexpectedly, and they
didn’t know what to do with it, so they “ blewed ”
it on the horrible fluid that smells like varnish,
and tastes like paint, and makes your breath blow
up if you snort at a lighted candle.
“ O’Fipp” : The man who named the
byways around Little Bourke-street (Melb.),
had either a very keen sense of humor or none
whatever. In Lily Lane one does not notice
a profuse growth of the white flower of a
blameless life, and Blossom Alley yields only
grog-blossoms. Last time I wandered in the
neighborhood of Celes-
tial Avenue it seemed
to be making a gallant
effort to justify its
name. Two boys of
the John Bull-dog
breed and their
lady friends were
sitting on the
ground at the
corner, taking
sip for sip
from beer bot-
tles. In the
middle dis-
tance a half-
caste Chow’s
mouth wa s
watering as
he dug his
fingers into
some plump
fowls, vend-
ed by a curi-
ous cross-
breed who
looked as if
he could
trace his de-
scent from
all the tribes
O c Babel and
a few more
invented
since. Fur-
ther back
several
wasters of
the “mean
white” type
were bring-
ing all their powers of blasphemy to bear on a
discussion concerning Skinny Smith’s luck in
marking pak-a-pu tickets. Celestial Avenue was
having a celestial time that day, anyway.
* * * *
Evidence given before a N.S.W. Select
Committee on bread alleges that bakers who cater
for the poorer classes prepare a special doughy,
semi-cooked loaf, as “poor folk like it doughy.
They generally have a lot of youngsters, and if
the bread is doughy and moist there is no need for
so much butter.” It’s very kind of the baker man
to so study the tastes of the poor, and it would be
cruel to hint that he has any motive other than
kindness, or to bear in memory the fact that
doughy, badly-cooked bread contains more than a
fair share of water, which is cheap, and
can be sold at 21b. for threepence with
great profit. But it’s rough on the public
health. Writer, who doesn’t belong to the
very poor, and who makes special efforts to get
well-cooked bread, finds that, as a rule, the loaf
prepared for well-to-do folk is far from well
cooked. Its material is mainly starch—modern
milling takes most else out of the flour—and, with
really thorough cooking, it would be fairly nourish-
ing. As cooked by nine bakers out of ten, it is
harmful, and to the dyspeptic actually poisonous,
bince that is so with “good bread,” what must be
the quality of the special doughy stuff prepared
for the stomachs of the poor ?
* * * *
Transpired in a Senate debate on the
Copyright Bill that the total cost last year of the
European cable service to the Press Trust was
£15,182. That is divided among 20 daily news-
papers published in the capital cities within the
Commonwealth, and an association which supplies
the Maoriland newspapers, and another association
which supplies the provincial newspapers. The
cost to any one daily must be therefore infini-
tesimal; yet the service is kept at its present
miserably inadequate standard on the score of its
“vast expense.”
* * * *
Language from Melbourne calculated to
cause a breach of the peace :
Curator Guilfoyle, of Melbourne Botanic Gardens,
cloesn t like the efforts of well-meaning*, but one-idead
people who strive strenuously, in piling up rocks and
jamming green-stuff in between, to help Melbourne to get
close to the mighty heart of Nature, and lay its ear
against her palpitating bosom, and all the rest of it. He
speaks of their efforts as obstructing* and disfiguring the
roads, as an artistic disg*race to Melbourne which ought
to be wiped out, and says that every individual should
study the best models and protest against what he con-
siders inartistic or futile. Let us protest. Perched on a
peak overhanging* the Monier-built bridge leading to the
Botanic Gardens stands a princely pepper-pot erection
known as the Temp le of the Winds, or HSolus, or words to
that effect. The painful pilgrim climbing the long'flight
of rough-hewn steps to the fane finds suddenly sprung* on
him that most futile of all artistic shams—a hollow
mockery of super-fatted concrete blatantly masquerading*
as what it is not; and round the inside cornice of the
abonunation, in deep-sunk, foot-long* lettering*, is the
unblushing statement that it was designed and built by
W. K. Guilfoyle to gratefully perpetuate somebody nobody
ever heard of, who dug trenches and relieved pot-bound
geraniums when the gardens were yet young and innocent
oi guile. Rock work decoration, far from being futile, is
nonest, therefore artistic ; the thing to be deplored is a
lamentable lack of variety, eye-wearying in its irritating
monotony. But this hypocritical, jelly-mould lime-house,
perkily perched on high, only fills the beholder with a
whole-souled loathing at the abominable concrete
effrontery of the thing as it stands, a horror and an
offence against the morning sun.
After which few remarks the correspondent went
away and put a cool, damp, green cabbage-leaf on
his aching head.
THE RONTGEN GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her figure’s dainty chrysalis
Now wriggles in its sombre shell,
But mantles deep that come amiss
The summer sun will soon dispel.
Her wraps and rugs aside she’ll fling,
Her cerements of old winter furl,
So hold your breath, while sun-rays bring
The Rontgen Girl.
She is Australia’s own ; the fire
That flickers in her eyes and mouth,
The misty mode of her attire,
Are offspring of the sunlit south.
Her form is modelled to enslave,
From dainty toe to topmost curl,
And hlest be Fashion when it gave
The Rontgen Girl.
Her skirt will be of muslin then ;
Her blouse will be a filmy one ;
And both be far more filmy when
She stands before the setting sun.
She’ll set, enshrined in rose and gold,
Your heart aflame, your head awhirl,
When, Truth-clad, .you once more behold
The Rontgen Girl.
VIC.
A.B.
THE MORMINGTON MAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mornington (Vic.) Council has negatived a motion that
all male bathers over 12 years of age should wear cos-
tumes, on the ground that visitors would be driven away
b.V restrictions not adopted by rival watering places. No
motion was made regarding the costumes to be worn by
female bathers. —News item.
VIC.
Morn ngton has not suggested
That the powers with Which it’s vested
Should apply as la-k of dress did
To each maid ;
So the Council’s left its waters
For its charming, shapely daughters
Free to wade.
We will give our firm adhesion
Henceforth to that spot Elysian,
Where the merry maenads Grecian
May appear
On the sunlit beaches, flitting
In a garb of tightly-fitting
Atmosphere.
When we view each sunburnt Venus,
Naught intruding in between us—
Nothing in the world can wean us
Back to town ;
There we’d stay throughout the summer
Watching every pink newcomer
Turning brown.
Mornington is our objective,
For its Nereids collective,
Individual, irrespective,
Claim our hearts,
When their costume only air is
(Kindly tell us what the fare is
To those parts).
H.


Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128=130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
kiixtg street,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City.
Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
A Good Thing for the Cup.
A Smart, Cheerful, Well-fitting Suit, by
C, HAGON ff out of " Best Material/'
sure of a place in the Great Event*
ħ
Price, £4 4s.
h
R. C. HAGON,
Merchant
Tailor,
129 King SU Sydney.
It was sworn in a wife-desertion case in
Melbourne lately that the lady who had seduced
the defendant away from his appy ’ome prevented
him giving his wife anything by annexing all his
earnings—£s a week. She even “made him put
down in black and white an account of every
threepence he spent.” The magistrates were so
pleased at this evidence of thrift that they didn’t
order the man to support his wife, but merely de-
sired him to “see if he couldn’t do something for
her.” But it looks as if that “something” depended
mostly on the other lady.
re * * *
Melbourne Y.M.C.A. is making a special
effort to collect £7lOO in order that it may
buy out the building in Flinders-street, known as
Schuhkraft’s —now occupied by the Civil Service
Stores. The good young men had once a respect-
able place in Russell-street, which is now a sporting
club. They lost their heads in the boom days,
and built the huge pile now belonging to the Salv-
army, at the top of Bourke-street. They put up
the cash for the first storey, or thereabouts, and
trusted to the Lord to provide the wffierewithal to
pay for the upper floors, and when the burst was
over the new boom building was gone, and the old
previous building was gone also, and the good
young men were a shockingly bad example.
Since then they have hung out their holy shingle
precariously here and there, and have learned the
wisdom of strictly cash dealings.
* * * *
The law-court struggle between Tom Tre-
wartha, miner, and the Confidence Extended Co.,
of Bendigo, pr-omises to be a prolonged affair.
Trewartha, defeated in his action for damages in-
curred through alleged negligence at the mine,
succeeded in his application for a new trial, on
the ground that two members of the jury.had been
seen in conversation with the manager and one of
the directors of defendant co. whilst the trial was
proceeding. Judge Chomley ordered the case to
be re-heard at Bendigo County Court, next month,
the costs of the trial to abide the result of the re-
hearing. Now it is said that the co. will appeal
to the Supreme Court against the Judge’s decision.
Poor old Tom Trewartha ! Soon he will begin to
wish that Jus, accident had proved fatal. Though
we are a long time dead, we can be almost as long
a time in the Supreme Court. Moreover, there
are no costs when we are dead.
A HERO OF THE PUSH.
LUCINDA: “Heard you give big Connor a hawful doin' at
the match lars Saturdee, Skipper.”
SKIPPER : “ Me oath! ’N’ I’d ’a’ give him worse if the
rest o' the team had only let me get fair at ’im. ’
LUCINDA : “ What ’d they want ter stop yer fer?”
SKIPPER : “ Oh, they was busy on ’ini theirselves.”
The Law in Victoria begins to be weary of
certain ill-regulated persons who can’t make up
their minds. Under last year’s Justices Amend-
ing Act, when an accused person pleads guilty at
Petty Sessions and is committed for trial, the
depositions are taken then and the witnesses
allowed to disperse. But should the accused alter
his mind and his plea at the higher court, the trial
must necessarily be postponed in order to rope in
the missing witnesses once more. A shifty-minded
person just now before the Courts first pleaded
guilty, then, at Sessions, altered his plea, and his
trial had to be postponed. Subsequently he noti-
fied the Crown Solicitor that he had again altered
his mind and would plead guilty, but when he once
more faced the music this fickle individual s first
remark was, “Not guilty,” and as some of the
witnesses were by this time at vast distances the
discussion had to be adjourned again.
Two lots of inter-State Church dignitaries
have been talking about fire in Sydney. Ihe
Anglicans discussed the Athanasian Creed, which
holds out prospects of a hot grill for unbelievers;
and after pursuing the discussion along about ,wo
miles of type The Bulletin lost it in a stack of
theological straw, and doesn’t know for certain
where it ended. Most likely its m the stack
still. The meeting that Dill Macky s friend, Car-
dinal Moran, presided over also discussed fire,
but instead of wheeling along truckloads of theo-
logical straws it produced its bank book, and
remarked that the fire insurance co. s seemed to
be dipping deep into the collection plate, and
asked why the Church couldn’t have an insurance
fund of its own. In the end two bishops were
told off to draw up a working scheme, for submis-
sion to a meeting of bishops later on. A very
practical person is the bishop whose front name is
mostly Patrick or Jeremiah.
J * * * *
“L.” : The Anglican Synod of Austral-
asia, meeting in Sydney recently, lost no time in
affirming its “ex animo acceptance of the credenaa
of the quicunque rult .” Haste was probably caused
by the fact that the language of the motion had
been dead so long that the Synod feared it would
decompose before it could be got off the premises.
■* ♦ *
“L.”: Salvationists with collecting-boxes
are prominent in Melbourne every year during the
week before Hospital Saturday. When the time
arrives for hospital collections it is found that
Booth has skimmed the cream of public charity,
and that many have helped to fill his treasury
under the impression that they were supporting
the hospitals. When it comes to cadging, the
Sal v’army is as full of points as a three-card
trickster.
* * * *
At Bendigo, on Get. 12, Justice a’Beckett
sentenced an obvious monomaniac to the maximum
penalty of three years’ hard labor for indecent
assault, and three terms of four days’ each of
solitary confinement. The culprit had been twice
previous] v convicted and twice flogged for similar
offences, "and his Honor said it was a question
whether a lunatic asylum wasn t the proper place
for him. Possibly he ordered the “ solitary ’to
settle the question beyond doubt.
* * * *
The casual, gradual State official ! A Tie.
officer was taking a Neglected Children’s Depart-
ment youngster to Geelohglately, when, afew miles
on the Melbourne side of Little River, the infant
leaped from the train —going at 30 miles an hour or
thereabouts—and was seen to be lying alongside
the line. The official didn't stop the train, or tell
a porterat Little .River to go back ; he just thought
the matter over carefully till he re iched Geelong,
whence a rescue party was dispatched. But the
boy’s mind worked faster than the officer s, and
bv the time the party arrived he was a very scarce
infant.
* * *
“N.” : The demise of a very
venerable capitalist, call him Gilt-
gore, leads to reflection on the mis-
chief of waiting for crabshells —
otherwise shoes. He emerged from
humble life, and his surroundings
were as modest as Uriah Heep s or
Pope Sarto’s. His only child, a
daughter, was the great heiress of
the suburb. Forty years ago a
draper’s assistant, call him Smith,
annexed her. The match ended his
luck. His fellow yardsticks envied
him even as Tomlinson was envied,
when he bounded from Swan and
Edgar’s, London, upon the stage,
as Walter Montgomery. Giltgore
put him into a shop. Yet v. » e the
Smiths sulky. Giltgore thought he
was magnificent, but they thought
him parsimonious. The business
did not prosper. Giltgore dribbled
assistance but not enough, and so
the shop was disposed of. Giltgore
was of the kind who say, “You 11
get it all when I’m gone.” Of
course it is on the tip of the heir s
tongue to reply, “ But when are
you going?” The Smiths were
blighted beings, and battlers.
Their daughters grew up under the
buzz of “Giltgore’s heiresses!”
Consequently they wanted hus-.
bands with twice as much money
as they could get. Poor but honest
fellows were thrust aside. The
women mildewed into discontented
old maids. Smith, as an old man,
said, “What good will it be to
me? I wish my wife never had
the prospect of a bean.” Then Gilt-
gore died, and lo ! some boom bust
had left him really poor, and his
latter years had been a pretence.
Wise Jim Lick, of San Francisco,
put his beans into a telescope.
His hungry heirs can look through
it, to get a view of his spirit in
heaven. He didn’t think to leave
a boring apparatus, so that they
could sink for his spirit In case they
didn’t see it through the telescope.
Melbourne is a remarkable place for steal-
ing things. They will steal your bicycle or your
good name while you wait. The mace was stolen.
Treasurer after Treasurer has purloined pension
funds and little things like that. The other night
a gang of enterprising thieves walked off with a
pile of steel tram rails belonging to the big tram-
way monopoly. The rails only weighed a ton and
a quarter, and were in nice handy lengths of 12ft.
each. Someone will steal Fink’s Buildings next.
* * * *
Some faddists are trying to start a society
to guard against premature burial. In this coun-
try there is more need for a society to protest
against the undue postponement of burial. In
any Upper House may be found several men who
are dead, quite dead, but they don’t know it and
persist in remaining unburied.
A THE A TRICAL
FAMILY.
“And what part does
little Dicky take !”
“ Oh! he’s the leading baby.”
Mayor Cooke, of Unley (S.A.), lias solved
a difficult problem. Mayors have always found it
hard to discriminate between those who should
and those who should not be invited to social
functions paid for out of the Mayoral allowance.
Cooke has arranged a big continental evening at
the local recreation ground, and issued invitations
to all who exercised their civic and voted
at the municipal election last year, borne fami-
lies of specially high tone are left out because they
wouldn’t trouble to make a cross on a polling-
paper, while Polly Jones Bill Smith have
received their gilt-edged cards, and are not quite
sure whether to take them seriously or not, never
having met a sensible mayor before.
* * » *
Maoriland Government, which is, on the
whole, about the most business-like and practical
in the world, proposes to take another step in
combating phthisis, by establishing sanatoria
where the convalescent or the threatened may
live, and follow some lucrative ooen-air occupa-
tion. In M.L. perhaps, in Australia certainly,
tuberculosis could be, with proper precautions,
made as rare as smallpox, and to make it so would
remove a very heavy tax on the productive capa-
city of the people.
* * * *
After seven long years of Ministerial
muddling the matter of selecting a site for the
Mitchell Library buildings has been passed on to
N.S.W. Public Works Committee for inquiry.
Mr. D. S. Mitchell has already handed over to the
State 10,000 volumes—now housed in some inacces-
sible fashion in Macquarie-street—of the 30,000
Australian books, &c., which he prom'sed to
bequeath, the condition being that a suitable
building must be erected for their reception. The
building is a long way from haying arrived yet,
and unless Carruthers shifts things along when
the Public Works Committee has got through,
N.S.W. may easily miss this fine donation after
ali. Mr. Mitchell is over 70, and his will provides
that his collection must be properly housed within
one year of his decease, or else the gift lapses.
One scheme is the erection of a new National
Library, at a cost of about £114,000, in Sydney
Domain, about the spot where the landscape is
now encumbered by a mossy stone, dumped there
in bygone ages by some premature person as the
nucleus of new Parliamentary buildings.
A droll incident lately reported by the
cable is the capture of two British officahs by
Moorish brigands. If one could only see those
officahs protesting against the indignities they
suffer in the custody of the dusky desperadoes !
Bweakfast and dinnah shockingly served, and no
luncheon to speak of. No shaving utensils. No
changes of linen. No anything that makes life
worth living, bai Jove ! The situation must be
very like a scene in a Blandolt melodrama, where
Baker, in irreproachable regimentals, snorts
defiance at a host of mock Arabs and other dis-
guised supernumeraries, who have cut him off from
the British forces, and are feigning ignorance of
the fact that a brass band playing “Rule Britan-
nia” will shortly come to the hero’s rescue.
Mr. Brassman, landlord, was
shocked when, in answer to his
ring, the door of the Darling-
hurst house was opened.
Things were in disorder,
and his first thought was
that the tenant had
flown. On admission
to the little parlor he
felt reassured, and had
just spread his rent-
book on the table when
madam appeared. “ I
vas tinking
“Oh,” said madam
interrupting, “mypoor
husband was buried
this morning, after only
two days’ illness. I
forgot all about you
—but wait. Yes,
here is the rent.”
He looked care-
fully at the notes,
licked the stamp,
signed the receipt
and tore it out, all
the time flogging
his fancy to pro-
duce something
pretty in sympa-
thy. “Sheer up,”
he began, handing
over the scrap of
paper and making
bo the door, “it
vas veil it vas so
sudden; he might
have lingered.
Mrs. Smoran —you
know her —had a
husband shoost
like —he vas no
goot—but ven he vanted to
die he vould not hurry ; he
took six months and ruined
his vife mit expenses. You
vas lucky. Sheer up.”
—J Inscription writ large on
the wall of the dining-room of
a North Adelaide (S.A.) board-
ing-house :
GOD HATES GLUTTONS!
A couple of Melbourne’s worst-known
citizenesses were driven through the city the
other night in separate cabs, one with her head on
the floor, the other with her feet through the
window. Next morning the Law fined them 40s.
apiece or thereabouts, and remarked wearily that
it was tired of seeing the ladies. They replied
they were equally tired, and had not the slightest
desire to intrude ; they each owned more than 50
convictions, and found the fine monotonous. LOll-
- the folly of this weary old “ 40s. or 14 days.'
They are both young women, yet in the last few
years they have cost the State at least £2OO in
gaol-maintenance alone, without any advantage
whatever, either to the State or themselves. A
law that could shut them up for a few years in an
inebriate farm-retreat on the Gfippsland moun-
tains, and supply them with profitable work,
healthy recreation and education, might do some-
with them, but there is no healing virtue m
“40s. or 14 days.” Any cockatoo could fay as
much.
* * * *
Christchurch, the last of Maoriland s chief
centres to adopt electric tramways, is building the
lines on the old steam-car gauge of 4ft. bin. At
present there are horse, steam and electric cars
running over the same rails. In wet weather
everything travels on the tram-lines; hansom
cabs fit the tram-lines; motor buses, motor cars
traction lorries and funerals fit the tram-lines ; and
sometimes a dog has a fit on the tram-lines.
... *
W. L. Bodine, Superintendent of Com-
pulsory Instruction at Chicago (U.S.A.), recently
produced some Government statistics, covering 20
years, to demonstrate that woman and child labor
is driving men away from the cities. “ Man, like
the Red Indian,”'he said, “is dying out. In
1890 3 914,571 women occupied paying positions
in the IT.S. ; in 1900 the number had increased to
5.329,807. The female birth-rate is increasing, and
the death-rate is diminishing, while, with reg<ird
to the male sex, the reverse is the case.”
* * * *
Ballarat (Vic.) council is just now showing
how much grovel can be squeezed into an alder-
man without bursting him. When the Yorklet
was inflicted on this country he laid the foundation
stone of a Boer gore memorial in Sturt-street m the
alderman’s city ; but the site was wanted for the
electric trams, so the grovelling council wants to
shift the Burke and Wills memorial, and plant the
other in its place. Burke and W ills, having been
mere Australian explorers, can be pushed out into
some back yard; the best that’s going must be
reserved even for a butcher’s block provided a
blessed dukelet has touched it, or breathed on it.
And yet there isn’t a place in Australia that talks
more'about “the hardy pioneer” and puts on
more frill about “ the development of Australia
than Ballarat.
A THOUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A little moon that steals across a pearl-grey sky,
A fire out in the West where the red days die,
Hedged with dark gums a twilit pool where pale lilies lie.
O little moon ! A new white leaf uncurled !
O dying sun ! A flag of glory furled !
0 silent lily pool ! A grave,
The story of a world.
QUEENSLAND.
A.G.J.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Half of Maoriland’s financial year was passed
on September 30, and it looks as though Seddon will be
able to make another good Budget speech. He expected
his revenue for the whole year to be £121,530 ahead of
last year’s ; and for the half year alone he is £104,000 to
the good. The railways are mainly responsible ; they
have brought in £63,000 more than in the like period of
1904—for which credit the policy of driving off the sheep
alongside the lines to make room for the men. Under
the circumstances, Maoriland’s public stocks ought to
stand far higher in the market. Its 3.1 per cents are
only valued at the same price (99) as those of Tasmania,
and J p.c. lower than those of S. Australia ; and its 3 per
cents are at 87, whereas Queensland’s are at 87|. Con-
sidering that Tasmania and S. Australia have been
steadily exporting adult population for years past, and until
lately Queensland wasn’t importing any to speak of, this is
a serious reflection on Seddon’s borrowing policy. Twelve
months ago Queensland’s 3 per cents were at 85f ; but
Queensland has gone in for honest finance, and mostly as
a result of its determination to pay the bill and not water
down Cohen’s security any further, its 3 per cents are
now up to 87J. But Seddon’s inexplicable kink in the
matter of borrowing—he has increased his annual borrow-
ings from half-a-million to three millions—has, in spite of
the State’s prosperity, brought down the M.L. quotation
from 87£ to 87. Cohen isn’t concerned with the Arbitra-
tion Act, or the Factories Act, or the Liquor Act, or
Seddon’s other social legislation ; but he is concerned
when he sees other Cohens coming in year after year to
share his security.
» * * *
The last wild-cat pension scheme that happened
along was in connection with the N.S.W. public service.
It was a scheme by which the oldsters of the service would
be supplied with pensions by the youngsters, but it
wouldn’t be possible for the youngsters to accumulate
any fund to pay their own pensions with ; yet it was rushed
through by the Public Service Association, and with all
its absurdities, has been in operation for about a .year
past. Now another wild scheme has been issued by the
Commonwealth Public Service Association of Queensland;
and a special 50,000 issue of The Federal Service (the
association’s “organ ”) has been sent out in order to rope
in the servants of all the States to support the nightmare.
The preface to the prospectus is a trifle hysterical, but
otherwise admirable. It mentions that several men who
were in the service last year are this year in benevolent
asylums, and it adds that if the service doesn’t do something-
in the way of immediate contributions to a pension or
superannuation fund, the asylums will before long hold a
good many more who are now tying up the Common-
wealth’s sealing wax with the Commonwealth’s red tape.
But, after proving- that some scheme is necessary, the
association comes hopelessly to grief in propounding a
specific scheme. The trouble is the usual one of offering
too much for too little.
The idea is that every officer shalj, contribute 4
per cent, of his salary ; the Commonwealth is to add 1 per
cent. If the Federal servants wait until they persuade
the Government to do that, a lot more of them will have
plenty of time to get into the benevolent asylums. The
public servants can agree to hand over 4 per cent, of their
own salaries; they might possibly induce the Govern-
ment to provide that nobody shall enter the
service without coming into the scheme. But
the other is outside their control ;-and if they incorporate
that in their scheme, they simply hang it up indefinitely.
The scheme provides that, with the contributors’ 4 per
cent, which it ought to get and the Commonwealth’s 1
per cent, which it can’t rely upon getting, every
officer shall be entitled to retire at 60, and if he has paid
in for 10 years, receive a pension of £4O for every £lOO he
has paid in. Thus a man of 35 receiving £2OO a year
would for 25 years pay in £8 a year, or £2OO in all, and he
would be entitled then, being 60, to a pension of £BO a
year. Now, if the fund earned 4 per cent, com-
pound interest without a break and never made a
bad debt, and didn’t cost anything whatever to
run, the improved value of the £8 a year contribu-
tions in 25 years would be £333 and a fraction. The scheme
offers a pension of £BO a year for that, whereas if a
man of 60 took his £333 to the A.M.P. Society.it would
pay him £3O 16s. 3.1. and no more. And even that is in
excess of the ordinary English rate. In England the
Guardian Co. would pay only £2B 17s. Bd., the Provident
Life £29 12s. 2d. The American offices offer a trifle more
—the Mutual Life of New York £3l ss. 3d. ; the Equit-
able £3l 6s. Id, The City Mutual (Sydney), whose
annuities are more liberal than those of any other
office in the world of which this paper has any know-
ledge, would pay £35 6s. A life' office not only finds
it can only afford to pay about £3O where this super-
annuation scheme proposes to pay £BO (or £64 without
the Commonwealth’s subsidy); but if the insurance-
society’s annuitant dies the very next year the annuity
ceases, whereas the Queensland Public Service scheme
proposes to pay the annuitant or his heirs five years’
annuity certain. This is adding folly to foolishness.'
Take another case. A man at 55 may come
into the proposed scheme by paying five years’ contribu-
tions with 4 p.c. compound interest added. Say he
is receiving £3OO a year. He would pay in not quite £65
back pay ; then for another five years £6O ; total, £125. He
would after that be entitled to £4B a year. Even if the
Commonwealth paid the 1 per cent, which the scheme
mentions, the fund would have £lBO with which to buy a
man of 60 a £4B pension for life. The best that any life-
assurance office in the world would offer, so far as The
Bulletin knows, is £l6 18s, 6d. This wild-cat scheme
proposes to pay almost three times that amount.
And it is impossible for the scheme to pull
through by means of forfeited premiums. If an officer
who has been paying in for less than 10 years retires for
some other reason than ill-health, or if he is kicked out,
he gets his premium back ; if he lias been in for 10 years
or more, he gets 2 per cent. Compound interest also and
in neither case will the interest retained more than cover
expenses. If a member under 60 dies after paying for 10
years or more, his widow receives half benefits during her
widowhood, and if she dies his children receive the same
benefits till the youngest is 18. This gun is loaded, too.
A member at 45 has paid in £l2O in 15 .years. Again
giving the fund credit for the Commonwealth’s 1 p.c.,
there will then (with interest additions) be just £2OO
available. If he has a child of five, that means payments
of £3l2 —and there is £2OO to pay' it with. Or the widow
of (say) 43 has an expectation of life of about 25 years—
which would, if she remained a widow, call for £s9o—all
to come out of that £2OO ! The A.M.P. would offer (with-
out regard to re-marriage) £ll 14s. 2d., instead of £24.
It isn’t necessary, perhaps, to bunt this crack-
skulled scheme any further. If it were, other absurdities
might be pointed out—for instance, the absurdity of pay-
ing the same pension to the man who has paid in £2OO in
10 years, and to the other man who has paid in £2OO in 40
years, regardless of the fact that the latter man’s £2OO
has been improved, by interest additions (at 4 p.c.), up
to £420, while the other’s has reached only £240. The
old men of the service under such a system benefit at the
expense of the younger, and by the time the younger men
are ready to draw their pension, there’ll be a hole where
the pension fund ought to be. A pension scheme is badly
needed in the public service—it is a good thing to have oil
the;premises in any service—but the 50,000 (or so) people
who have been appealed to in the interests of this one
shouldn’t have much difficulty in deciding what to do
with it.
* * * *
The Agricultural Bank of Queensland, the
uewest of Australian State land mortgage banks
Interest Paid
June, - Loss. to State. D ificit,
1903 .. ..£336 3 per cent. =£47 £336
'Profit.
1904 .. 84 3 „ „ 417 252
1905 ~ 63 3 „ „ 773 199
The bank is not quite so absurdly restricted as it was at
the outset, but it is still seriously hampered. The S.
Australian bank, the most successful of the State banks
in the Commonwealth, might very well have been taken
as a model ; there the business is handed over to trustees,
who are given such wide authority that they may make
advances even on town and suburban lands ; and the ex-
periment has been completely successful. When the last
figures on the subject were issued that bank had re-
ceived back £287,334 of advances, and less than £ll,OOO
of instalments were overdue. It looks very much as
though, if the Queensland experiment fails, it will be be-
cause it has been hobbled. It is true that, being hobbled,
it cannot chase a man and insist that he takes a loan, as
the Q.N. Bank did in the drunk days ; but, being hobbled,
it cannot chase the man to whom a loan has been granted.
Thus the hobbled department is already stuck with an
abandoned homestead. It advanced money on the im-
provements ; the man left ; the bank hasn’t power to
carry out the conditions ; nobody else has taken up the
land ; so the bank can neither use the improvements nor
get paid for them. Yet, in spite of such handicaps, pro-
gress is being made
Mortgages Working Expenses per cent.
Outstanding. Expenses. of Advances.
1903 .. £6,253 .. £557 .. £8 18 2 per cent.
1904 .. 20,370 .. 550 .. 214 0
1905 —.. 38,417 .. 687 .. 115 9 ”
But to make the thing a commercial success the advances
must largely increase. At present, since the Treasury
supplies the funds at 3 per cent., which is much below the
market rate, while other departments do odd jobs for the
bank gratis, the business is not on a commercial basis.
* * * *
The National Bank of Australasia (Melb.):
Dividends. Added
Ord. Pref. to Be- Be-
Profits. 3p.c. sp.c. serves. serves.
Mar., 1899 £12,323 £7644 £4,679 £102,117
Sept., 1899 19,245 7644 11,601 113 718
Mar., 1900 22,152 7644 14,508 128,226
Forfeited Capital added to Beserves 4,977 133 203
£68,000 written off Beserves . 65 203
Sept., 1900 27,065 £17,887 7644 1,534 66’737
Mar., 1901 28,448 17,887 7644 2,917 69,’654
3) p.c.
Sept., 1901 32,050 20,868 7644 3,538 73 192
Mar., 1902 34,394 20,868 7644 5,882 79074
Sept., 1902 35,038 20,868 7644 6,526 85’eOO
Mar., 1903 34,660 20,868 7644 6,148 91’748
Sept., 1903 34,874 20,868 7644 6,362 98’ll0
Mar., 1904 36,233 20,868 7644 7,721 105 831
Sept., 1904 36,950 20,868 7644 8,438 114’269
Mar., 1905 36,130 20,868 7644 7,618 121,’887
4 p.c.
Sept., 1905 36,104 23,849 7644 4,611 126,498
Profits have moved down a shade still further, and the
dividend has been put up. The distribution now absorbs
over 87 per cent, of the profits, leaving less than 13 per
cent, available for reserves. This isn’t nearly enough
in view of the fact that the earnings are still small enough
to suggest that a considerable amount of the comparatively
trifling reserves might very reasonably be written off.
The whole of shareholders’ funds—capital and reserves
combined—amount to less than 18 per cent, of the total
assets ; they amount to only 25 per cent, of even those
assets which are liable to severe fluctuations ; and that
isn’t a sufficient margin. The reserve ought to be built
up much more rapidly than the present very ill-advised
increase in dividend will allow. Some banks seem
to forget that they were wrecks only 10 or 11 vears
ago, and they continued in business, instead of
being wound up, on the tacit understanding that
they would apply a substantial part of future profits to-
wards clearing up the wreckage. It is extremely
doubtful if the wreckage has been completely
cleared up yet; nevertheless they distribute quite as
large a proportion of their profits as if there were
no skeleton in the cupboard. In fact, some of them
distribute more, on the ground, apparently, that share-
holders haven’t had much of a dividend for a few years
past. They forget that shareholders didn’t get much of a
dividend for the very good reason that they had lost a
great part of their capital. The National is no worse
than others and not as bad as some ; but this rushing up
of the dividend in the face of falling profits and of a com-
paratively trivial reserve fund, nearly half of it forfeited
capital, calls for severe remarks. Whether profits will «o
on falling or not depends mostly upon (1) whether the
present rates for deposits are maintained, and (2) whether
a greater demand for money can be brought about. As
this comparison shows, the bank has abundance of
resources to meet such a demand :
Sept., Sept.,
1904. 1905.
Notes in circulation .. £240,497 £219,704 Dec. £2O 793
Bills in circulation .. 372,836 646,575 Inc. 273’739
Deposits at interest ... 3,781,559 4,025,242 Inc. 245’683
Deposits, current a/c .. 2,152,480 2,441,479 Inc 285’999
Liquid Assets .. .. 2,350,095 3,078,494 Inc. 728’399
Advances ... .. 5,224,525 5,378,880 Inc. 154’355
Bank premises (cost).. 450,416 449,839 Dec. ’577
Other real estate .. 253,316 216,959 Dec. 36,357
Advances have increased certainly, but deposits bearing
interest have increased more ; and whereas the liquid
assets 12 months ago represented only 351 per cent, of
total liabilities to the public—a reasonable "proportion—
they now represent 41J per cent. ; and over half-a-million
of the accumulation is either in coin, which isn’t earning
anything, or in other banks (foreign) where it is earning-
very little. As before mentioned, the bank’s earnings are
not high ; on the basis of shareholders’ total funds the
profits have shown up this way :
March, 1901 ..£3 12 8 p.c. Sept., 1903 ..£4 7 9 p.c
Sept., 1901 ..4 1 9 ~ March, 1904 .. 410 10
March, 1902 ..4 7 7 ~ Sept., 1904 .. 412 1 ”
Sept., 1902 .. 4 810 ~ March, 1905 .. 4 9 7 ’’
March, 1903 ..4 7 7 „ Sept.,- 1905 ..4 9 1 ,’
The gross profits (before charging expenses other than in-
terest and taxes) were £97,563. On the average amount
of assets this is £2 Is. lOd. per cent, per annum, while the
Bank of Australasia, on the same basis, shows £2 I6s. 9d.
per cent.—a difference which suggests that the National
Bank has still some writing down to do, and should have
continued building up its reserves energetically to do it
with.
* * * *
The Colonial Bank of Australasia (Melb.)
Dividends. To Be- Be-
Profits. On Pref. Shares. serves, serves.
Sept., 18.19. .£7,078 3 per cent. =£4,561 £2517 £3,557
£3060 forfeited capital added to reserves .. 6,’617
Mar., 1900.. 11,472 4 per cent. = 6,081 5391 l’’ooB
Sept., 1900.. 12,019 4 „ „ 6,081 5938 17.946
Mar;, 1901.. 13,718 5 „ „ 7,601 6117 24 063
Sept., 1901.. 15,069 5 ~ ~ 7,601 7468 31,’531
On all Shares.
Mar,, 1902.. 17,173 5 per cent. = 10,942 6231 37 76‘>
Sept., 1902.. 16,264 5 „ ~10,961 5303 43,065
Mar., 1903.. 16,223 5 „ ~10,961 5262 48 327
Sept., 1903.. 17,251 5 ~ ~ 10,965 6286 54,613
Mar., 1904.. 19,117 5 ~ ~10,967 8150 62,763
Sept., 1904.. 18,287 5 „ ~10,967 7320 70,083
Mar., 1905.. 19,320 5 „ ~10,967 8353 78 436
Sept., 1905.. 18,314 5 „ ~10,977 7337 85,773
Though the unusually high level of the previous half-
year’s profits wasn’t lived up to, still the net result is
better than that of the corresponding half of 1904. Yet
on the figures that follow so favorable a comparison
wouldn’t have been expected ;
Sept., ’O4. Sept., ’O4.
Notes in circulation £107,072 £108,666 Inc. £1 594
Bills in circulation 22,659 95,942 Inc. 73’283
Deposits at interest 1,519,138 1,635,192 Inc. 116’054
Deposits, current ac-
count.. .. 861,601 866,711 Inc. 5 110
Liquid Assets .. 579,430 746,603 Inc. 167’173
Advances, etc. .. 2,200,879 2,247,115 Inc. 46 236
Beal Estate .. 249,920 248,752 Dec. 1,’168
The increase in the interest-bearing deposits has been
greatly in excess of the increase in advances ; yet the re-
duction in deposit rates, coupled probably (though this
isn’t certain) with a smaller allowance for doubtful debts
enables-the bank to shdw better net profits than a year
ago. Even at this time of plentiful money, when other
banks have up to 50 per cent, of their debts to the public
represented by liquid assets, the Colonial has a reserve of
only 274 p.c. It looks none too large-; and yet, of course,
a bank that can s&fely work on a small margin (and
that depends upon the nature of its deposits and the sort
of depositors it has) has a great pull over other banks.
But the management which trusts its depositors and
works on less than a normal reserve takes a great respon-
sibility ; and the bank that does it ought to lay by cer-
tainly more than the average. The Colonial fills the bill
in the latter respect ; its dividend absorbs 60 percent,
of the profit, allowing 40 per cent, to go to reserves!
Further, the balance-sheet doesn’t appear to be over-
loaded with paper values, which call for writing
down ; thegross earnings (after paying interest) amounted
to £2 11s. 3d. per cent, on total figures, which is better
than the average. And on the basis of shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves) profits show up in this
manner :
Sept., 1901 .. £6 12 7 p.c. Mar., 1904 .. £7 15 0 p.C.
Mar., 1902 .. 7 6 6 „ Sept., 1904 .. 7 510 „
Sept., 1902 .. 610 10 „ Mar., 1905 .. 711 11 „
Mar., 1903 .. 614 9 „ Sept., 1905 .. 7 1 6 „
Sept., 1903.. 7 1 8 „
The Colonial appears to have a good borrowing connec-
tion, and is suffering less than most from the sluggishness
of enterprise. It is quite possible that this means that it
would show less improvement than most others if enter-
prise and industry were stimulated. Certainly it hasn’t
apparent the available resources to meet much extra
demand.!
* # * »
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne): —
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Mar., 1899.. £4315 3 p.c. =£2250 £2065 £8,041
Sept., 1899.. 4624 3 ~ „ 2250 2374 10,415
Mar., 1900.. 5843 4 „ „ 3000 2843 13,258
Sept., 1900.. 5863 4 ~ „ 3000 2863 16,121
Mar., 1901.. 6488 5 ~ „ 3750 2738 18,859
Sept., 1901.. 6700 5 „ „ 3750 2950 21,809
Mar., 1902.. 7061 5 ~ ~ 3750 3311 25,120
Sept., 1902.. 7095 5 ~ „ 3750 3345 28,465
Mar., 1903.. 7380 5 ~ ~ 3750 3630 32,095
Sept., 1903.. 6819 6 ~ ~ 4500 2319 34,414
Mar., 1904.. 7556 6 „ ~ 4500 3056 37,470
Sept., 1904.. 7333 6 ~ „ 4500 2833 40,303
Mar., 1905.. 8335 6 ~ „ 4500 3835 44,138
Sept., 1905.. 8238 6 ~ „ 4500 3738 47,876
The accumulation of money in Australia is one of the
most striking features in the Commonwealth’s history of
the past 12 months. The money is here, and there is no
outlet for it. No factories or industries worth mention-
ing are being established ; in fact, under the tariff which
6. H. Reid, Cook, and the Freetrade crowd in general
whittled down, some industries are drying up. Meantime
imports of foreign goods are huge. For years the gibe was
thrown at the Labor party that it was driving out capi-
tal. There is absolutely no doubt that the Reid-Cook
Freetrade crowd, and to some extent the fiscal-sinking
crowd, is driving out enterprise. Take the figures of this
bank :
Sept., ’O4. Sept., ’O5.
Notes in circulation .. £8,611 £B,OlB Dec. £593
Bills in circulation .. 39,360 52,290 Inc. 12,930
Deposits, current a/c.. 164,342 190,437 Inc. 26,095
Deposits at interest .. 576,083 699,167 Inc. 123,084
Liquid assets .. .. 261,957 499,367 Inc. 237,410
Advances .. .. 644,518 576,805 Dec. 67,713
Estate (Premises, &e.) 75,924 75,767 Dec. 157
Here we have an increase in deposits of £149,179, and a
decrease in advances of £67,713, so that, helped by other
movements, £237,410 for which the bank can find no use
in the ordinary way of banking has accumulated. Twelve
months ago the- bank held 33J per cent, of its liabilities
to the public in liquid assets (coin, bullion, public stocks,
and bank balances). Considering the large proportion of
fixed deposits, that was a perfectly safe percentage. But
now the holding is an abnormal 52J p.c. Included in the
liquid assets 12 months ago was £164,638 of coin and
money at bankers ; most of the latter is no doubt money
at short call in London, where comparatively high rates
prevail—2J per cent, for call-money in some cases. This
amount has now gone from £164,638 to £274,281; and the
increase is represented chiefly by money which has been
driven out of the country, and is now in London banks.
Under the circumstances this bank’s profits have been
remarkably well maintained—thanks, no doubt to some
extent, to the temporary keen demand for money in
England, so that the surplus assets are earning more than
they would do at most times. But that English demand
won’t last, and then, unless a fresh demand can be stimu-
lated in Australia, bank profits will look much less
attractive than they do now. As it is, they have only
been saved by cutting the deposit rates ; and even then
the Royal Bank of Australia, though its profit is still
excellent, shows less than it did the previous half-year.
If this movement continues, and the London demand for
money ceases, a further cut in deposit rates is more than
possible. It is more than the bank shareholder—it is the
depositor also—who must suffer from this importing-
disease, coupled with the land-locking disease. Profits
op this bank’s shareholders’ funds (capital, and reserves)
have moved :
Mar., 1901 ..£7 16 8 p.c. Sept., 1903 ..£7 9 9p c.
Sept., 1901 .. 718 9 „ Mar., 1904 .. 8 311 „
Mar., 1902 .. 8 4 5 ~ Sept., 1904 .. 716 6
Sept., 1902 .. 8 2 1,, Mar., 1905 .. 815 2 ’
Mar., 1903 .. 8 5 5 „ Sept., 1905 .. 8 9 9 „
* * *
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. of Tasmania.
Launceston (Tas.)
Net Dividends and Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1898 £17,417
1899 .. £49/8 7 per cent. = £2756 £2222 19,639
1900 .. 4403 7,, ~ ~ 2756 1647 21,286
1901 .. 3793 7 „ „ „ 2756 1037 22 323
1902 .. $,4541 7 „ ~ „ 2756 1785 24,108
1903 .. 5894 8 „ „ „ 3150 2744 26,852
1904 .. 5474 8 „ „ „ 3150 2324 29,176
1905 .. 3576 8,, „ ~ 3150 726 29,902
This co.’s remarkable run of luck has stopped suddenly
and instead of showing one of the lowest, it will show one
of the highest, loss rates for the year. The business is
small, and one very moderate fire more or less makes most
of the difference between a good year and a bad. For
many years the co. published no profit and loss account ;
but going back as far as possible, these have been its
experiences:—
. Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1900 .. £4785 £1774 £2143 37T p.c. 44-8 p c
1903 .. 6291 952 23 4 15T „ 38'0
1904 ... 5839 1087 2390 18-6 „ 41-0 ”
1905 .. 5844 2959 2248 50'6 „ 38’4 ”
The capital is £37,500, so the reserves are getting well on
towards the same figure. Further, they are so profitably
invested that, on the average of all assets, including cash
balances, the interest earnings are £4 12s. Id. percent.—
one of the best results among Australasian offices. Clearly
this co., at any rate, doesn’t buy banks’ insuring business
by leaving large sums either on-current account or at low
rates. The assets reach £71,836; and £66,773 is out on
mortgage. If the co. were struck by a big fire, with all
its resources tied up in this way, it might find itself in a
corner ; but so long as the big fire holds off it is earning-
fine profits for its shareholders. On capital and reserves
last year’s return, in spite of the co.’s hard knocks
reached £5 15s. p.c. The reserves, by the way, include
£2921 to cover unexpired risks—which is only a pro-
visional sort of reserve.
* * * *
The Brisbane Permanent Building and
Ba iking Co. (Brisbane): —
Dividend and Written To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1895- ..£3280 2| p.c. = £3172 £568 £21751
1896 .. 2642 2£ „ „ 2957 1,926 19 510
1897 .. 3410 2£ „ „ 2980- 2,705 17’235
1898 .. 4019 2| „ „ 3289 1,262 ie’7o3
1899 .. 47U 31 ~ ~ 3SBI 332 £498 17’20L
1900 .. 5618 3| „ „ 4404 315 839 18 040
1901 .. 6193 4 ~ ~ 4758 567 868 ls’oOS
1902 .. 5448 4 „ „ 4761 640 47 18 955
1903 .. 4803 4 ~ ~ 4763 394 18 606
1904 .. 4227 3J ~ ~ 3899 284 44 IBffiso
1905 .. 2867 Nil 16,322 5,195
There has been a cleaning-up in this office ; in the 12
months a new board and a new management have been
taking stock of the situation, and find it as unsatisfac-
tory as the last line in the table suggests. Nothing so
far has been written off capital, but apparently it isn’t
expected that the old formal reserve fund will be
sufficient to cover the necessary writing down, so profits
are wisely being- put by for'the purpose. Apparently
also, comparing the disclosed profits with those stated to
have been earned hitherto, something is being written off
internally. Anyhow, the advances are not much less
than in the previous year (£214,375 against £230,338), yet
gross interest earnings are shown as £11,289 against
£13,171. The advances and properties in possession, as
written down by £12,044, are now in at £220,323 ; and
the gross interest earnings (£11,289) represent £5 2s. 6d.
p.c. As newer advances ought to be earning from 6to 8
p.c., it is pretty clear that there is still some writing,
down to be done. Still the position isn’t anything- for
depositors to worry about. The cleaning-up, or partial
cleaning-up, lias, in fact, been done without any serious
disturbance of deposits ; latter have shrunk only from
£144,527 to £130,480 ; and as there is £111,284 of share-
holders’ capital in the business, in addition to the
undivided profit, and as it looks as though the directors
intend to strengthen the position out of earnings,
depositors appear to be amply secured. Working ex-
penses have also been reduced, and that will further help
the recovery along. r
The Australian Newspaper Co. (Sydney),
which runs the Star and the Sum, and will probably reach
tor the Moon some day :
Expenses Nominal
Gross (Including Net Divi- Re-
June, Earnings. Depreciation). Profit, dends. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1898 828
1899 .. £29,064 28,142 922 4 p.c. = 1600 150
1900 .. 26,611 24,648 1,963 5 „ „ 2000 113
1901 .. 25,921 23,915 2,006 5 „ „ 2000 119
Loss. Deficit.
1902.. 21,964 23,383 1,419 Nil 1,300
1903.. 21,592 22,975 1,383 Nil 2,683
1904.. 21,381 24,053 2,672 Nil 5,355
1905 : 23,370 23,933 563 Nil 5,918
For the first time for many years the goodwill item is
shown separately ; it now stands at £18,844. As that is
purely a paper item, and ought therefore to be discarded,
the real deficit is now £24,762. Very little can be said in
favor of retaining a goodwill item in the case of a profit-
able business, and nothing at all can be said for it where
the business has shown a continuous loss for years past.
The amount of capital at present intact appears therefore
to be £15,238, or 7s. 6d. per £1 share. But this, again,
depends upon the writings-off for depreciation of plant
and leasehold. If they haven’t been sufficient (and the
amount has never been shown), then the capital really
intact is less than £15,238. The improvement on the
previous year’s record, though substantial, is in one
respect not as good as it appears to be from the table,
for in 1903-4 a disputed railway account for £520, covering
services rendered in previous years, was paid. In other
words, the loss in 1902 and 1903 was somewhat greater
than is shown above, and in 1904 somewhat less. Apart
from the fact that the loss wasn’t as heavy as in the
previous year, about the only satisfactory feature of the
accounts is the reduction of the sundry debtors item from
£5846 to £4065 ; but the overdraft stands at £3565, an
increase of £545, the outstanding money collected having
apparently been sunk in plant. And as the plant doesn’t
appear to be able to earn profits—well, the position isn’t
cheerful.
• • * *
The Federal Building Society (Melb.) has
issued its first annual balance-sheet. The old society, a
vast concern which spread itself out over three States and
then put up its shutters in 1892, panned out less disas-
trously than might have been expected. When it col-
lapsed it owed the public :
Deposits and interest .. .. £330,347
Prepayments 362
Overdrafts, &c 66,169
Total £396,878
The capital was £200,000 and nominal reserves £26,662.
After being in the melting pot 12£ years it was reported
that £389,939 of debts had been admitted, that the whole
of these had been paid in full, without interest since the
melting-down process began, and that the assets that re-
mained might be worth £122,000 if they were carefully
nursed and realised. The new society has a capital of
£96,351, and its first year pans out in this way :
Business Profit on Total Dividend Nominal
Profit. Sales. Profit. (4 p.c.). Reserves.
1904 £26,488
1905 .. £4323 £1495 £5BlB £3854 28,452
The figures in the final report of the liquidator compare
with present figures :
1904. 1905.
Advances and balances owing .. £63,160 £92,870
Properties in possession .. .. 54,071 37,469
Cash balances .. .. .. 4,779
Overdraft 1,316
The society has entered into business briskly. Properties
in possession include shops and dwellings' £28,878, and
vacant land £10,581. Whatever profit may be got from
realising them, there seems to be little in letting them ;
the net rental return on the average value for the
year was only £1 15s. 6d. p.c. Still, repairs were fairly
heavy. It doesn’t, however, seem likely that the
profit on sales will be a regular thing; and, apart from
that, the profits show just under 4| p.c. on the written-
down capital alone. And that is low enough to suggest
that, in estimating the present value of shares, the
reserve fund which the new society took over may be
disregarded.
* * * *
Cobar (N.S.W.) is feverish over the rich silver-
lead development in the resurrected C.S.A., six miles
north ; and the stir isn’t surprising, for, so far as the
eastern crosscut has gone from the 450 ft. level, something
like 70ft. of lode has been driven through, which on
checked assays shows the remarkable average value of
£7 15s. per ton. Highest assays (taken from the last few
feet) show silver 1670 z., lead 56 per cent., and gold 13dwt.
Originally worked for copper, the upper levels of the
G.S.A. didn’t indicate anything definite ; there was a big-
formation, but no value in it. Then G. H. Blakemore
and others became interested in it, and the strength of
the syndicate they formed, backed up by State aid, gave
the show its first real chance in the sulphide zone. The
subscribed capital was £2200, which didn’t seem enough
at the time ; yet it has turned out all right, and each
shareholder who backed his pluck with a £5O-note
can now exchange it for a couple of thousands.
Of the subscribed capital the syndicate still has £lOOO ;
but flotation is already agreed upon, on the basis of
£44,000 nominal capital—22,ooo shares of £1 each to be
issued to present holders, with 22,000 preference contrib.
to the public at 2s. on application, 2s. allotment, and
with a calling power of Is. per month. Policy is to
thoroughly equip mine, sink new main shaft, and erect
smelters ; and as nevv float provides £4400 cash along with
the old £lOOO, and gives in calls £llOO per month, there
should be enough to open up. Experts like John Howell,
Brown, G. H. Blakemore, J. O. Armstrong, W. H. Tre-
wenack, and Low state that the lode in present crosscut
is almost bound to be very wide ; certainly there is no
indication yet of either wall. Of course, one can’t tell
positively ; but on the limited data available, the G.S.A.
seems likely to be one of the biggest things yet found in
the district.
North of the C.S. A., upwards of 1000 acres have
been pegged ; but, as country is covered with alluvial,
speculators are simply making a guess at it.. Nearest
leases (40 acres held by Tie.venack and 120 acres by
Doyle) take in country with the top chance ; but until
some development is done on these leases and the shoot
located, there isn’t anything to indicate the value of
ground further north.
At the south end of the C.S. A., Andrews Bros.’
claim, recently purchased by Frank Gardner on the basis
of £BOOO cash and one-sixth interest, looks like a good
deal ; and as it is now contended that the lode is a direct
continuation of Gt. Cobar, Gardner is likely to make good
use of this information or suggestion in his proposed float.
But the connection between the two is another guess.
* * * *
Great Peak Extended, Cobar (N.S.W.), pre-
viously referred to as a syndicate with speculative
chances, is now sufficiently satisfied with its silver-lead
lode development at 250 ft. level to launch out as the
Great Peak Silver Mining Co. (No Liability), in 5000
shares. Latest assays gave gold 13dwt., silver 360 z.,
lead 13 per cent., from a fair ore body. Previous to this
silver assays reached 2000 z., and lead 87 per cent., on
which showing Great Peak Extended may be reasonably
expected to open into a payable mine.
Premier (Cobar), comfortably situated between
the phenomenally rich and patchy Peak and Great Peak
Extended, also meditates reconstruction and enlarge-
ment. Present syndicate, whose boundary is within
30ft. of the well-known Blue lode, is now crosscutting ;
but operations are too slow, so syndicate is going to
see if aNo Liability Co. can’t facilitate the business. The
Peak, but a few feet away, is on 2oz. ore, and as the
strike is direct for the Premier’s property, a few moments’
thought on the Premier won’t be wasted.
* * * *
Boppy Mountain, which isn’t Mount Boppy,
but a huge conglomerate hill, with a likewise huge iron-
stone-gossan formation on its eastern slope, and-from
which cobalt, gold and silver assays were obtained in the
’9o’s, has, after years of neglect, been secured, partly by a
local syndicate, partly by an influential mining crowd.
The mountain lies between the State’s two top-notch
mines, Mt. Boppy and Great Cobar, and has an abandoned
shaft which was sunk in ’95 by Suttor, now N.S. Wales
Commercial Agent in the “East.” From this working
4dwt. of gold was got; so it is at least likely that Boppy
Mountain will pay for being thoroughly prospected. Any-
how, it invites that much consideration.
■* * 1C *
Broken Hill Junction North half-yearly report
(to Sept. 30th) proves nothing of any consequence. State-
ments of costs are more deceptive than otherwise ; they
are not costs of working, but mainly of experimenting.
Something nearer to an idea of what the mine can do is


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES PROP LTP . 504 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS, TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROBEY
EXPLOSIVES and MINING REQUISITES generally.
Sydney Manager : A. E. Leplastrier.
Portable Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engin.es, High Speed Engines
for Electric Light, &c., &c.
CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
Melbourne Manager : C. A. Lempriere.
I he best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
Wilfley Ore Concentrating Tables. Important
notice to mine managers and users of Concentrators.
The Supreme Court of Victoria has deckled in the action
brought against N. Guthridge Limited that the well-
known Wilfley patent is valid, and has been infringed by
N. Guthridge Limited by the manufacture and sale of
tables which they ca 1 the Card Concentrating Table.
The Court granted a certificate of the validity of the
Wilfley patent and ordered N. Guthridge Limited to pay
damages and costs of this action, and granted an
injunction restraining N. Guthridge Limited from in-
fringing the Wilfley patent. This is to give notice
that the Wilfley Ore Concentrator Syndicate Limited will
enfore its rights against all persons buying or selling or
otherwise dealing in or using such infringing Concentrat-
ing machines. By order of Edward J. Rigby, Attorney
for the Wilfley Ore Concentrator Syndicate Limited,
care of Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne.*
* ■* * *
The Commercial World (London) July 15,
1904,. writes with regard to the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Li n eed: —“In responding to the
cordial vote of thanks passed to the staff at the meeting
alluded to, the General Manager stated that the stability
and strength of the society had been growing- year by
year and that at the end of the year 1903 it was in a
stronger positi on th an ever before. ”*
The Cathcart Proprietary Gold Mine, Ararat,
was the first mine in Victoria to adopt electricity as motive
power for pumping, hoisting and puddling. This plant
commenced work in September, 1904, and has been in
constant and successful operation ever since. It consists
of two return tube boilers, 160 horse-power engine, 110
kilowatt dynamo, switchboard, an electric hoist capable
of lifting 800 tons in 24 hours, an electric three-throw
pump raising 25,000 gallons of water per hour and a 35
horse power motor driving the puddlers. The dynamo
also provides electricity for 40 lights by means of which
the surface and underground workings are lighted.
Experience obtained on this mine during one year’s
service proves that: (1) electricity makes an actual saving
in fuel amounting to about £350 per annum ; (2) the
dynamo and motors cost practically nothing to maintain ;
(3) the cost of lubrication is reduced to a minimum ; (4)
electric motors re juire much less attention than
steam engines; and finally (5) electricity is much
more flexible than steam power, permitting ready exten-
sion or change as mining conditions frequently require.
The contractors for this installation were the Austral Otis
Engineering Company Limited, corner of Hanna and
Kavanagh-streets, South Melb >urne, Sole Agents for Ganz
and Company, Budapest, Hungary.* [1
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Eit., 1894. *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrbkrq and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de I’ieteGo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, Chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
i i fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
• - * * •
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating- manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
Coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long ag-ain. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, liuming-, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
■* * * *
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more—alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 2500h.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Win. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
are also putting down “ Hornsby ” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IQOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
Golden Bendigo.— The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly g-iven. Geo. A.
M Her, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange). *
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange) for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * « *
This is what they call “ introducing capital to
develop our great mineral resources.” The prospectus of
the Diglum Dyke Gold-Mining Co. was lately issued in
Melbourne, 12,000 shares, 4000 of them to the vendors,
8000 to the public, at 6d. on application and 6d. on allot-
ment. Of the £4OO thus realised £lOO went to the vendors ;
probably another £lOO in flotation expenses. That would
leave £2OO on hand to develop a mine in North Queens-
land !
given by last month’s results —mining 12s. 6jd. per ton,
development 2s. 3Jd. per ton, milling 6s. IOJd. per ton.
Compare with the South—mining 10s. 2d. , milling 3s. 9Jd.,
development Bd. And the South is doing far more
thorough milling than the Junction North can ever do
with its incomplete, patchworkplant. It isn’t to be expected
that the Junction North, so far as one can judge, will ever
be able to work down to the South’s costs, which is so
much the worse for the Junction North. The estimate of
ore-reserves put forward (123,819 tons) is also worth very
little. The grade isn’t uniform, and how much can
be profitably treated can only be guessed at. This is the
position : The magnetic process failed. What the wet
method can do has never b ;en really tried, because the
mill is, according to mo lern ideas, an absurdity. Yet it
is known that it is a difficult ore to treat. It seems to be
a more refractory ore than Block 10’s, and Block 10, with
the very best and newest in the way of mills, is only
getting out 37 per cent, of the silver and 66 per cent, of
the lead. Therefore, until a remodelled mill gets to work
under fair running conditions on Junction North, the
size of the profitable reserves is unknown, and the value
of the mine a riddle.
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation, the new concern which
has been buying up the Broken Hill z.nc dumps, was
registered in Melbourne on Wednesday of last week ;
capital £350,000, £340,000 issued, £l shares paid.
Same day there were buyers at 375. 6d. Very
pleasant for the promoting syndicate (Lionel Robin-
son, Clark and Co., of London ; Bewick, Moreing
and Co. ; H. .7. Daly ; and the Baillieus, of Melb.),
which took all the. shares ; but what do shareholders in
the Barrier co.’s which sold their zinc dumps feel about
it'? -For the syndicate doesn’t even propose to do a stroke
more than even the poorest of the co.’s could have done
for themselves—doesn’t propose to erect any expensive
works ; doesn’t, in fact, propose to do anything except
produce a very crude concentrate and sell it to Europe,
where the foreigner will have the work of turning it into
.metal, That export duty on crude and semi-crude ore
will have to come yet.
* ’ * * *
Exit H. O. Hoover, of 8., M. and Co., s from
Melbourne. ’ The next scene in. all probability will be
London, where the way for the return of this smart
engineer of the. West has been paved by Lionel Robinson
and Marks’Financial Noosn. Hoover and H. J. Daly are
now like Siamese twins. The latter scores a distinct
saccesi in getting the appointment of managvng-
director to the new Zinc Corporation Limited. In-
vesting public does not look with the eye of approval
on the advent of the Westrahan and old Melbourne
land-boom elements at Broken Hill. But they have come,
and, having plenty of boodle, have taken up wliat looks
like a g-amble on the metal market. Hoover in three
months has practically snapped up the Junction North
and the South Blocks; lie has got the Baillieu-Tyrell
North Broken Hill combination on Ins side ; and the
Block 14 Baillieu-Lionel Robinson shoal has swum
into his net. His spell extended to the South
Broken Hill, which made the remarkable deal in
tailings ; then he had a try with Block 10, but
it heeded not the voice "of the charmer. This was about
his only rebuff; and, as he is credited with mopping up
the Rotter z.nc process, and with buying into the De
Bavay process, it. maybe.admitted'that he wasted no time
and did well. All he wants .nowhs a high price for spelter;
and presumably he would not turn up his nose at a boom
in Hill stocks.
New Hillgrove Prop. (N.S.W.) explosive rock
has “ kicked ” again, and, as in December last, the “kick”
has made a mess of the shaft between Nos. 5 and 6 levels.
Last time, the trouble was mainly around No. 7 level.
Present disturbance is serious enough to keep the mine
idle for six or seven weeks—except, of course, for shaft
repairing. This Ji Bull 00. has shameful luck ; it Had
just tasted divs. when this renewed trouble hit it. The
latest burst supports the theory that the Hillgrove slates
are built on the same principle as the g-lass drops
that the youngsters used to play with—drops that were
made by suddenly cooling molten glass, and would
explode when struck. In Baker’s Creek, Hillgrove Prop.’s
neighbor, rocks have been flying oil’ in this way for years,
but there the “ kick,” as the local miners called it, was
local; at the Prop, the business amounts to an artillery
discharge. Just how much force there is behind the dis-
charge, even when it is local, can be sized up from the
fact that, six or seven years ago, a small chip Hew off and
cut a Baker’s Creek.miner’s eye out. Molecular strain,
they call it,
A 'Vic. syndicate lately secured patent rights
for a quick process for lUamifabturing white lead. An
E.igl.s.i co; has-been working the B;s:;hoff process with
results that should point a moral to the Australian syndi-
cate, The old white-lead process was tedious and involved
a slow turnover of capital ; the B sjhoff process lias to tie
worked coniiuuous.y and, on a large scale to keep down
the cost of production ; lienee a largely-increased output
of the white lead, Australian producers will therefore
require heavy Protection against such competitors ; and
probably special legislation will be requ.red to deal with
dumping.
The Sandford people have signed the contract
with the N.S.W’. Government for .a seven-years non and
steel supply, and the manager is already on his way to
Europe alter such plant as can’t already be produced in
Australia, and an expert staff. As to the latter, some
idiots are already asking what.the Commonwealth will do
about it, as tnough the Immigration Restriction Act
didn’t prov.de the fullest .opportunities for adm.tting
experts not procurable in Australia. Tne Saudf nd
managers mission recalls the time, not so long' ago, w.ien
the Hinted (States imported 200 or 330 Welsn tin-plate
workers to set that business going in America ; and no .v
it has become one of the greatest industries in the world.
Westralia’s gold yield for September was
16i,29i Oz. ; total for year 1,489,3510 z., against 1,479,6180 z.
for same months of last year. Tne shortage is 10,2670 z. It
seems unlikely that this can be made good ; but it is
not likely that the shortage- will; be any larger
at the end of the year. Chief "producers ' were :
Lii\e gold,-*- Fingall, 13,6330 z. ; Horseshoe, 13,971 oz. ;
Oroya, 12,8140 z. ; Ivanhoe, 10,4790 z, ; Perseverance,
93 790 z. ; Kalgurli, 59220 z. ; Gwalia, 52980 z. ; L, V. Co iso’s,
400Soz. ; Associated Northern, 36300 z. ; Cosmopolitan,
22930 z, ; South Kalgurli, 34080 z ; Hainault, 19210 z. ; East
Murchison United, 15210 z. ; Bellevue, 14370 z. ; Burbanks,
6410 z. ; W.F. Main Reefs, 4730 z. ; Hannan’s Star, 4540 z. ;
Hannan’s Reward, 3730 z. ; Craiggiemore, 2700 k. ; .South
Gippsland, G63oz. ; and Queen Margaret, 50oz. Bullion.
Great Boulder, 15,2810 z. ; Pole, 2llloz. ; Mt. Morgans,
17986 z. ; North Feather, 123J0z. ; Golden Ridge, 10J4oz. ;
Princess Royal, 103ioz. ; Cumberland, 6130 z. ; Red Hid,
6740 z. ; Waihi, 58Soz. ; Mt. Jackson, 5330 z. ; Buraauks’
M.L., 5980 z. ; Fraser’s, 4260 z. ; Greenmount, 3iJ>z. ;
Queensland, Menzles, 6600 z. .Chief gains on August.—
Perseverance, 2300 z.; E.M.U., 3600 z.; Vivien, 250oz.;Great
Boulder, 600 oz. ; Golden Pole, 3200 z. Losses.—Associated,
14600 z. ; Lancefield, 200 oz. ; Hannan’s Star, 150 oz. ; W.F.
Main Reefs, 90oz. ; Ida H., 190 oz. ; Burbanks 8.G., ISOoz. ;
Mount Morgans, 2500 z. ; North Feather, XOOoz. ; Potosi,
170 oz. The big slump in Associated is due to machinery
alterations-.which were in progress, ■
September net results of W.A. mines are as
follows : — Profits —Oroya, £40,000; Fingall, £35,700;
Boulder, £25,900 ; Ivanhoe, £33,340 ; Horseshoe, £22,550;
Kalgurli, £14,640; Associated Northern, £10,980; Gwalia,
£lO,BOO ; Perseverance, £9700 ; Golden Pole, £5300 ; South
Kalgurli, £BOOO ;L. V. Consols, £3380; Haina.lit, £2140 ;
North Feather, £1540; Cosmopolitan, £1330; Ida 1.1.,
£ll9O ; Cumberland, £B9O ; Red Hill, £B2O ; E.M. United,
£5OO ; Bellevue; £320; Mertons, £450; Vivien, £2OO.
Losses —Lancefield, £l6OO, W. Main Reefs, £1803; Mt.
Morgans, £l4OO ; Hannan’s Star, £lOOO ; Golden Ridge,
£640, Princess • Royal, £580; Burbanks 8.G., £580;
Craiggiemore, £lBO ; Wa'.lii, £so.' With regard to W’aihi,
although grade of ore treated is nearly 6s. better than in
August, expenses are nearly 7sr higher, hence the loss.
Divs. paid by W.A. mining co.’s during hist
nine months of year total £1,733,376 against £1,559,132
for same period of 1904, a gain of £173,444. The increr.si
in divs. is brought about entirely by a reduction in work-
ing costs, as value of gold produced is £43,500 less.
Ivanhoe, Kalgoorlie, announces that its ore re-
serves, as at June 30, were 695,200 tons, worth H'B3dwt
This compares with 715,000 tons, worth 15dwt. on Dec. 31
last. The decline is insignificant, being less than 3 per
cent, in quantity and just over 1 per cent, in value. At
present rate of consumption ore reserves are good for 31
years. Many things may happen in that time. So far as
tested the lodes at the bottom levels continue as strong as
ever, and the slight decline in values is counterbalanced
by a decline in costs. Extra Wilfley slimes concentrators
are also being installed to increase percentage of extrac-
tion. It has been found, too, that grinding pans are
cheaper in this case than grit mills, about which much
nonsense has been written. Manager Nicholson does not
miss many points, as his management of the Ivanhoe
proved.
vr ■*• * *
Associated, Kalgoorlie, had a very short run of
its treatment plant during September, and treated only
half the usual tonnage. The profit worked out at. £4900,
but, as £4997 was expended on alterations, co. came out
about square. Plant alterations are just about complete,
and it should be up to its full capacity of 9090 tons by end
of year. At end of last year co. had investments vaJiteif
at £160,000, chiefly British Consols, so the £39,000 sanc-
tioned for remodelling treatment plant need not be*
debited against current revenue. Under the circum-
stances, co; may pay a surprise div. before long, as it has
been earning steady profits since manager Roberts took
charge in March. The'worst pill was the discovery of the
error in survey, which made the 20ft. west lode appear to
be in Associated ground when it is really 10ft. inside of
Perseverance. ,
* * * *
Directors of Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.),
have at last said something about future divs. These are
to be 7s. per quarter, which means 20 per cent, per
annum on £7 per share. Future monthly output is to be
reduced to £53,500, equivalent to £3 per ton treated,
whereas ore reserves on June 30 were valued at £4 a ton.
If the 657,000 tons estimated to be in reserve on June 30
were worth £4 a ton, why. add 219,000 tons of mullock to
reduce the average to £3 a ton? Hr, M. and Co. have an
enormous reputation as m.ning engineers and managers,
but the cases of Fingall, Oroya, Laneefieid, Hellevue,
Burbank’s Birthday Gift, East Murchison United, and
others make one sceptical of their calculations as to re-
serves. As urged here again and again, gpld contents of
ore reserves should be only the recoverable gold. What
is the use of including metal that cannot be g'ot out, even
though assays prove it to be there?
Oroya-Brown Hill, Kalgoorlie, which had been
on the down grade, has had strokes of luck recently.
First, in the east crosscut at No. 5 level in Doolette shaft
on Oroya North block, a lode, or rather a pipe of
ore, has been cut 50ft. east, averaging sft. wide,
and 22dwt. for a distance of 130 ft. driven. Ore
in this drive has been very erratic, ranging from
ldwt. to 117dwt. This Doolette shaft is about 750 ft.
north-east of Pomeroy shaft, and the lode cut is a con-
tinuation of the lode worked in the oxidised zone in
1898-9 by Capt. Parkes, who g-ot from it some 50,000 tons
for 21,0000 z., out of which divs. of Is, were paid, or £9491,
On the original Brown Hill block, on which working
miners have long' been trying to secure a tribute, very
good values have been located. Some of these miners
indicated the spot where they intended sinking, and the
management took the tip and sank a shaft “ on its own.”
Years ago, when Feldmann was in charge, there was a
tremendous fall of earth in the upper levels, which
smothered thousands of*tons of pay ore. This could not
safely be worked from below, but is now being worked
from the surface, and prospects look g-ood enoug'h to
lengthen the life of the mine considerably.
* » * *
Litigation re Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, is over
at last, and the streng-th of the property will soon be
known. One of the members of the syndicate, Bertolini,
has been fighting for his alleged rights for months past,
and the bigger divs. the mine paid, the harder he foug'ht.
Under such circumstances naturally the lode was lost ;
but as Bertolini has now been knocked out by the
Hig'h Court, the lode or shoot will probably be resur-
rected.
Westralia Mt. Morgans still works at a dead
loss. During September the 60-head mill ran less than
half time, and treated 5349 short tons for 245. lOd. per
ton. Tins means a loss of some £1490. The new 900 h.p.
engine is directly coupled to the mill, so receives the full
-jar from the stamps, which are the heaviest in the world.
iFrepaent breakdowns result, and mill has recently only
been running ji.i.f time. Until belt or rope driving is in-
troduced, as well as a systematic style of development,
mine will continue to be worked at a loss ; and recon-
struction is inevitable.
Golden Pole (YV.A.) is still too deep a mystery
for the ordinary man to grapple with, and for his peace
of mind the outsider had better stay where be is. .Spite
of board announcements, the mill was shut down half of
September for overhaul and repairs, and only 1800 tons were
treated, worth 87s. 9d. a ton ; profit, £5OOO. Only a small
quantity of slimes and sands was cyanided, as the plant
required some adjustments. Full run i.s expected this
month ; interesting- to see how it pans out. The con-
tinued decline in grade of ore treated is, meantime,
ominous. Manager Nat White says he has been treating-
more oxidised ore. This seems a lame excuse, for the
oxidised ore used to return 2oz. to the ton exclusive of
residues. Lode in the north drive .at No. 4 level is sft.
wide, but this includes formation in the centre of the
reef, which is split.
* * * *
Boulder No. 1 ( W.A.), which has been worked
by tributors for years, has had a stroke of luck. In a
winze below the 166 ft. level a pay shoot 4ft. wide, worth
15dwt., was found. In following this down, the lode
widened to sft., and values went to 45dwt. per ton. The
shoot is, however, only 69ft. long at 133 ft. level, and it re-
mains to be seen if it lengthens at depth. The tributors
have been sinking but sft. weekly, so it will he some time
before anything much is known of the find. Shares have
jumped ; but investors are reminded that' there is a 3s.
liability on the scrip, and that there are 225,090 shares.
“Bob ” Anderson retired from the chair of the
Stock Exchange of Melbourne after 12 months unceasing
toil. He took office wiieii disintegration was imminent
because of the row between the Exchange and the Stock
Exchange Co. over the relative position of the two con-
cerns and their mutual financial obligations. The new
blood in “the room ” wanted to shake off the boom incu-
bus which the old blood had let the co. pile up. But to
do that meant repudiation. It needed a strong
man to save the situation. They got one in “Bob”
Anderson. He had been an official assignee, had run
an <erated water establishment, had been a horse-breaker,
and last and least had been a broker; and he brought
much experience of the world, besides business knowledge,
and fought until he got the tangle out. Result is that
the co. and “ the room ” have a sensible working agree-
ment which ensures peace for many a day. If Anderson
did this, old Joseph Thompson’s tact as chairman of the
co. helped to the end. In the chair Anderson was a
stickler for rule and form. No onedoubted his honesty, no
one questioned his wish to do right. Still, somehow,
he often missed the mark, though everyone wanted him
to score bull’s-eyes. A. J. Noall, his successor, is a son of
old William Noall, the doyen of the “house.” If blood
tells, Noall, jun., ought to make a good chairman.
Like his predecessor, he is a bit of a Hotspur.
Long Tunnel Extended, Walhalla( Vic.), is again
talking divs., and consequently there are more.smiles on
the faces of the Coll ins-street props of the co. than there
are wrinkles on the face of a pug dog. As things have
worked out, co. has done better than critics thought
possible. It has got its extra plant in, yet been able to
keep its reserve of £7OOO intact. What buoys the heart
of Collins-street, is that when the reef was cut at 2500 ft.
the other day, not only did it carry good gold, but
underlie was not so fatefully to the west as some people
who were short of the scrip would have liked it to he ;
thus in a double sense the mine lias been a surprise.
Walhalla folk scooted out of Extendeds for Tunnels long
since, as they did not fancy the chance of Extended
picking up the shoot of stone in the old North Co.’s
ground. How they will scowl now they learn the scant
underlie towards the Tunnel !
**. , * *
John Cock has a ticklish job ahead of him to
locate the old Dona Mundi workings, which the eastern
face of the Chiltern Valley mine, Chiltern (Vic.), is
approaching. His aim is to save a rush of water which
might endanger that end of the mine. It is a coincidence
that the two biggest alluvial shows in Victoria—
the Berry Extended and the Ciiiltern Valley—are
on the grope for old workings. In each ease
. the miners don’t feel too happy. What circumstance
can better show the necessity of the Mines Department
insisting that all mines shall keep plans as a measure of
safety? Cock’s mine does not prospect so well in the
west end as up the lead to the ea*t. Owing to the big
pressure of water on the south side of the lead in the west
end, the ground mined has been fairly wet, and costly to
. work. Improvement cannot be looked for till the branch
level gets away under the, wet ground south ; but as there
. is fully 1000 ft. between No. 24 cross-drive and the present
.block line, Cock ought to be able to get the south ground
.drained in tinie to prevent any check to his work. The
wash at the old Wallace-Chiltern shaft is not opening up
.well. Cock seems to think he is not across the lead,
so that he may yet reach a run of gold. Co. is financially
•strong, it has £5OOO in reserve, and it is unquestionably
well-managed.
*■ * * *
> No one quite knows how it is that North of
.England, Maldon (Vic.), scrip stands so high in the
■market. Taken all round, there hasn’t been a publicly-
owned mine at Maldon for the past two years outside of
Eaglehawk Co.’s that has not duffered out when put to
the battery test. North of England has, so it is said, an
80ft. shoot at 160 ft. level. Lately some specimen dirt
was met, and so the public is notified that prospects have
been greatly improved. The cruel deduction might be
made that the other quartz needed a sweetener. How-
ever, a little Stock Exchange “buck” was attempted,
but the Mt. Tarrangower fiasco lives too strong in the
memory for the public to bite on a mere bagful of
specimen stone. The co. has its battery, and when that
talks the public may come in. It should await more than
one clean-up, too, and the proving of more than an 80ft.
shoot.
♦ * * *
Papuan, Charters Towers (Q.), a show that is
seldom heard from now, is plugging away at exploration
work, and getting scant encouragement. The half-year
gave a profit of £133 from 1326 tons that averaged
£2 15s. 6d. a ton. The Victoria reef, from which the last
div. was paid some six months ago (although it wasn’t
earned by £27), has apparently turned dog on the co:
Previous term saw 1454 tons put throug'h for an average
of £3 ss. 6d. a ton, while the last 507 tons treated this
term was only worth £2 10s., which will about cover
costs. Clark’s on one side has nothing of aiiy value
dipping the Pap.’s way, and the Band of Hope on the
other side has less. So with the £750 in hand attention is
to be paid to a block 100 ft. by 200 ft. that the Co. has on
tribute from the Victory.
* 4 * *
Golden Alexandria is the one bright spfeck over
the Ruby Ridge way at Charters Towers ; 378 tons put
through gave 9510 z., concentrates and residues to come.
Estimated the parcel will be worth £lO,OOO.- -Directors
promptly declared a div. of Is., equal to £5OOO. Show
is not looking- its best at present; the Ift. of stone in
No. 3 level has pinched. The No. 4 levels have just been
star ed in f mnation carrying leaders, some of which show
mineral. Still, considering the frequency of blanks in the
locality, a pinch for, Bft., as in No. 3, should not cause
anxiety. More divs. will probably come before the end
of the year, as there is about £5OOO in hand.
* » * *
Queen Cross Extended, Ch. Towers, an all-contri-
buting share co. that spent its cash in looking-for a reef, has
been reconstructed. First crushing, for the new co. was
62 tdns for 60oz. ; concentrates and residues bring the
value to £3 19s. 3d. a ton. This isn’t good enough for
three months’ work on stone.
* * * *
Mills United, Ch. Towers, for a fortnight sent
up 926 tons for 2700 z. ; concentrates, £1065 ; residues
£2ll. Total equals £2 7s. 6d. per ton. Management de-
serves credit, as the mine is being developed beyond the
ordinary Towers - level. Stone is mostly broken in course
of development work, consequently it is none too clean.
Sloping has not commenced in earnest yet, although the
output is increasing. The half-yearly meeting is ap-
proaching-, when the cost of crushing is to be considered.
At' present co. pays 11s. Bd. for carting and crushing.
Prospects of th.e mine, together with the bodies of low-
g-rado stone available, warrant the purchase of a battery.
With a treatment plant of its-own, handy to the mine,
Mills’ could put up local records for cheap mining. Every-
thing is in its favor ; large blocks of.ground are ready for
stopingyand others are being opened up. There will be
little or no handling of stone once it is broken, as the
grade of the ground is steeper than anything else on the
field.
* * ■* ft
Harrison and party, tributors in Clark’s Bril-
liant Worcester and Victory, Oh. Towers, were in a warm
spot, and got permission to sink a winze for ventilation.
In doing so they cut a rich vein in the footwall. This is
supposed to be a continuation of the reef that is giving
Tuekett and party such handsome returns from the Vic-
tory tribute, As a reward to the tributors for the dis-
covery they were allowed to stope on it for a week ; then
the co. took it over. Quality is reported good, but there
is not much of it.
* * * »
Biggenden Mining Co. (Q.), which pursues the
tricky bismuth with no g-reat results, reconstructs. It’s
only a little reconstruction, however, yet about all the
case merits ; 40,000 shares of 10s. each are to be issued
paid to 7s. Gd. Present holders of paids and contribs. for
every, 10 shares g 4 et 8} and 6J shares respectively in the
nen- co. All shares will carry 2s. 6d. liability', thus pro-
viding £5OOO. D, rec Lars . urge that want of water has'
stopped Operations just when developments look better
than ever before, which is probably quite true. Mine
developments, however, are- only a small factor in the
success of a bismuth ‘proposition; Are the directors satis-
fied that their system of treatment and extraction is
good ? Are they' satisfied that their method of market-
ing the product is sat.sfactory ? If they are, then
they' are easily' pleased. The ore carries some gold,
and the mine is also supposed to be worked with much
secrecy. An interested visitor was on that account, not
so long ago, refused permission to have a look at the
workings. Without, much hesitation, -that interested
visitor proceeded to pour out a cart-load of detailed
information concerning the mine workings and prospects.
Instead of engaging that man as an official, the co.
“ shooed ” him out of the place. “ Cheek ! How does he
know?” He knew because it was his business to know.
It is no use having secrets if you put them in a box that
leaks.
* * * *
“Fairplay” writes: — “Surely The Bulletin
(vide 19/10/’0.5) can’t object to the allied tobacco interests
turning out hand-made cigarettes as well as its friend
John Jacob Schurh? Why, then, allege that the allied
tobacco interests consider that the cigarette pie is theirs ?
As a matter of fact, there are more outside cigarettes as
plums in the pie now than before the tobacco interests
became allied. In fairness to the allied tobacco interests,
it ought to lie stated that their own distributing house
(Kronhei.ner’s) handles more outs.de cigarettes and
tobacco (Hill’s, Underwood’s, Gallagher’s, and so on),
than.it did before the present .system ca-ue into vogue.
Many will not object to Tub Bullktix’s idea of national-
ising the tobacco trade, prov.ded it can prove that it is
financially in the interests .of the Commonwealth. But
that has got to fie proved. Fair statements of the case,.
pro and con., will hurt no one. Again, on October
19th, a paragraph in the ‘Wild :Cat’ column is
all out. The Tobacco Co. bought 380 odd bales
at an average of 51. Two bales only were bought
at 2d., and 33 ba'es were bought at Sd. You state
‘ The trust is sorry, but it is only a twopenny variety.’ It
is not a question of variety, but a question of a lot of
mouldy, frost-bitten, coarsely grown and ba lly'-eured leaf,
the only excuse for purchasing which could possibly have
been that the tobacco manufacturer is trying to foster
flue curing. Trust or no Trust, it is to the interest of
the tobacco manufacturers to foster all they know the
production in Australia of properly leaf—and
they are doing it—and lOd. to Is. does not stop their
Texas (Q.) purchases.”
* * * *
Robert Schloesser has applied for a 20-acres lease
of Mount Hogan, Etheridge district (N.Q.). Mt. Hogan
holds the old General Gordon line of reef, which in its day
was responsible for many good yields. It has not been
worked for some years. Schloesser is a mining engineer
employed by Max Gorier, of Melbourne. Gorier in turn
•represents Brandeis, Goldschmidt and Co., of London.
It may be that that crowd sniffs the Etheridge railway
coming. Bewick-Moreing thought they sniffed it 18
months ago, and hustled round after leases and options,
and dropped them smartly when they found the Queens-
land Government was taking- quite an intelligent interest
in the railway deal.
* * * •
Grayson s first clean-up at the Gladstone (Tas.)
dredge was two tons of black tin of the value of £2OO.
Dredge ran about seven weeks at a cost of, say, £GO per
week, so, apart from additional plant provided, the co.
went back over £2OO. Still this may not be a fair vvay
to pit it, as the co. knew the clay bar had to be
dred ,ed. Grayson’s estimate for this work was three
weeiis. That it took twice as long with a new dredge
ne;ds a lot of explanation. Ryan left 10 days before the
clean-up. His testimony, up to his departure, was that
t ie gr und was all pug and no tin. So, actually, to be fair,
ta<e work as starting from about the time of Ryan’s de-
parture, as Grayson s wires soon after that indicated that
be wa i getting into the wash. On the 17tli Grayson tele-
graphed “ Started dredging wash afternoon shift yester-
day afternoon ; wash prospects well.” Apparently he
must have been stripping before that. If so, that ought
to be counted in. If be was only then out of the clay he
won £loo between the afternoon of the 17th and the ‘2oth.
As matters stand, what Grayson will probably claim is—
(1) that he has got outside the region of the oiay ; (2) that
he has proved the existence of deep ground ahead of his
barge, thus substantial ng his boring ; (3) that he has been
able to savejdn ; and (4) that the dredge will work.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resell s Waverley Brewery, Agfents.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE in Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
ħ
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLG3TH,
h
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHINERY
We would be pleased to get in 'communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
Aboriginalities.
STRAYED.
FIRST INSOLENT YOUTH : “ What're yer a-
fotterin' of it up fer, Bitty?"
SECOND INSOLENT YOUTH: “ There's a reward
fer it. It's the Steepin' Beauty a-walkin’ in
its sleepy."
Nym : I was bitten once by a snake,
t felt a prick on my right hand, below the little
finger—just sufficient to cause me to raise the
member to my mouth to suck it—mechanically.
As I saw the snake gliding away I grabbed my
fishing rod and despatched him. Then I tied a
ligature (of fishing line) round my wrist—painfully
tight. The satisfaction of having killed the
wriggler was full within me—but it slowly gave
way to a sensatiou on the spot like the sting of a
nettle. Bending my arm to suck the spot”again
I thought my wrist would burst—the blood flow
had stopped ! I cut out the two purple spots (like
twin flea-bites) visible amidst the redness, and
sucked, as it seemed, my fist dry. Whether it
was the^ taste of blood or not (it was salty) I became
sick. This made me move towards the township,
but I met a mate on the road who saw something
was wrong. He quickened my steps. My boots
seemed filled with lead. I hardly knew I was
walking. The power of feeling was gone, and the
helpless sensation began to creep upwards. My
heart seemed to miss a beat or two, my ears bulged
while interminable cricket chirps filled my head
Then the tightening of my chest strings became
unbearable. I thought my lungs were paralysed
I remember being hurried into a pub—the uncork-
mg of a three Star bottle—the hum of human
voices saying “What’s up?”—and I knew no
more ! When I woke five hours later the pub
was m darkness. I rose with a mighty effort and
groped my way into the night. How the stars
twinkled ! The cool air brought me to my sober
senses though my head still throbbed.
“ Janor,” on “ panning off” :
In cleaning' gold per dish, the ancient dodge men-
tioned by “ The Prooshan ” (B. 28/9/’O5) of “ spitting in
the eye of the gold” is good enough when handling coarse
metal, but with fine gold it is the surest means of getting
rid of the profits, and is never used by good and experi-
enced panners. This can be easily proved by panning
into a second dish and re-washing the residue. The
better way is to get the metal together in the belly of the
dish, with just enough water to cover the bottom, tilt the
pan slightly towards you, and gently sluice sand over the
bottom until it is collected in the side opposite the gold,
then imprison the lucre with a wet forefinger while wash-
ing out the sand.
Every miner loses more or less gold in dishing, for the
• IS "i is not an ideal gold-saver. The loss occurs generally
in the first part of the washing operation, not in getting
rid of the final spoonful of sand, for the less dirt in the
dish the less risk of loss. Insufficient puddling loses gold
per ‘ clay-balls ” ; unskilful raking out of the heavier
stones, likewise ; while thick, sludgy water, which the
fossicker has so often to use in a droughty land, is another
gold sneak. But with easily-puddled wash ( i.e., free from
clay), clean water and gold not too fine, the loss with the
bulk of alluvial men is trifling.
As in all other callings, there are miners whom experi-
ence does,not teach, and they never become good panners.
I knew an old hand at the game, who was the prospector
of an alluvial field in N.S.W. His claim was rich, shallow
ground, yielding up to seven and eight pound's worth of
gold per week, and he dished all his gold in the gilgis
which abounded in the neighboring scrub. He lost so
much gold that a tired individual who put in his time
shadowing him from water to water made up to 2oz. per
week washing his pannings. Also, I once saw a bloque,
on joking bent, slip an imitation 2dwt. speck into a dish
of wash about to be agitated by an experienced dish-
puncher. The joke did not arrive, for the man with the
dish lost the chunk of brass !
The gold dish-as a washdirt worrier has dropped out of
use of recent years. What dirt remains is poor, and
trends to the pension of old age ; so quantity is the only
hope, and it rattles through puddlers, troughs, cradles
and sluices, and the dish tries an odd prospect and cleans
up.
Most difficult metal to handle in the dish is mercurv.
It requires different manipulation to washdirt. At an
ordinary bush battery clean-up, where the dish is largely
used, an alluvial panner is quite up a wattle. Should
this strike the optic of any gold-seeker who reckons he is
just “it” with the dish (there’s whips of ’em around), let
him take a small bead of quicksilver, drop it into a dish
full of black sand, and pan off. If he recovers the bead
his opinion of his dish work is built on a rock, and he is
without any flies whatever as a pan-whirler.
* * • *
The baker at Monbulk (Vic.), where they
have to “ pack ” their goods owing to the badness
and scarcity of the Bent roads, sends his bread
round by a lad driving a hefty young bull.
Nothing has happened so far, but the youth says
he begins to feel shy of the pink flannelette that
adorns so many clothes lines on washing-day.
“Yarrum”: It strikes me that much of
this Uncle-in-Fiji business is
a joke. Why Fiji so often,
anyhow ? One night, a few
•months ago, I was at a North
Sydney hotel. Anoldcountry-
looking gentleman sat in the
tap-room. Simpson made in-
quiries and was told it was
Mrs. Publichouse’s father
from Murrurundi, who was
down for a trip. The old
man, it seemed, had a dread
of Sydney, and didn’t often
visit it, as he was afraid of
being taken down. Simpson
thought he saw possibilities
of an airy jest, so he wan-
dered into the tap-room, and
gave the old man the time o’
night. He next asked the
ancient to give it a name,
which he did, and they got
chatting. After a bit, Simp-
son remarked that he had a
rich uncle in Fiji and-r- But
the father from Murrurundi
arose as if a bull dog ant had
got him, and shouted “I’ve
heard of these Fiji men
before ! Good night to ye ! ”
Then he rushed into the
bar shouting : “ Mary, there’s
a shairper in yer house ! ”
Father Hayseed didn’t see
the joke for quite a long
time, and Mary had to leave
the beer-jerking to pacify
him. Even when he said he
saw the joke I don’t think
he saw it.
* * *
“ O’F.” : lie gum-leaves
an “old man” bush as orchard-pest preventives
(K 21./9/’O5). Fruit-growers in Bendigo district
(Vic.) believe that onions planted around fruit-
trees repel injurious insects. But the trouble is
to get them to grow in the shade and among the
roots of big trees.
* * ♦ 4
Car&doc uses some vigorous language;
Re the trancontinental railway line from Oodnadatta
to Pine Creek. Apart from the vast importance of the
project from a defence point of view, and the opening un
of excellent pastoral country from Mac Donnell Ranges
northwards, the moral effect will be considerable • it will
shift the horde of horse-thieves and cattle-duffers which
now infests Central Australia. The most notorious brand-
fakirs in the Commonwealth are to be found there. Ever
on the alert for “ clean-skins,” or figuring out how a
brand can be faked or successfully blotched, they live a
debauched existence, which must, in its “ inner own ” be
a veritable hell. So bad has the duffing of cattle become
that Bond Springs station offered a reward of £lOO for
conviction of the culprits. But who dare speak?
I recently trekked north as far as the Mac Donnell
Ranges and back. Among other things I saw bullocks
with lumpy jaw m the slaughter yard. The towns-
people, and the few other unlucky wretches who have to
go there, have this filth dealt out to them, or perhaps
they eat goat, which does not always carry the brand or
earmark of the man who kills it. A few weeks ago an
old resident of one town denounced the “lumpy law”
business, whereupon it was proposed to hunt him out of
the place as a public nuisance. Police? Yes thev
are supposed to supervise the slaughtering- but
residence in those surroundings would make nmst men
callous.
Let them get their railway. It will wipe out many
horrible conditions which now exist, and clear the air in
that country of pastoral and more or less mineral wealth.
* * * *
“Kink ” : Who said curlews do not breed
m captivity? In the garden attached to the
Rochester (Vic.) Post-office a pet curlew (one of a
pair) has laid a couple of eggs, and when I met
the lady she was busy hatching them out Pa
curlew shows no interest in the trouble, but then
ma always was the more approachable of the
twain, bhe has made a crude nest of charcoal
and sand, just anywhere in the garden path right
in the way of traffic, and sits away, taking no
notice of anybody. °
DOG-TAX
SARCASM.
OLD LADY : “ O yes,
sir, we had a
dog last year, but
he died, pore thing.”
CONSTALBLE : “ Did ye, indeed, mum? Well,
well! But that's a moighty foine tom-cat
ye have lookin’ out at the windy.”
The Australian out-back takes all reason-
able and many unreasonable occasions to be
sociable and frivolous. Wording of a ticket
which comes to The Bulletin :
STIRLING TOWN HALL.
GRAND SOCIAL
In Aid of New Cemetery,
ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13th, 1905.
items :
Vocal. Musical. Dancing. Supper,.
MOONLIGHT.
Lady’s Ticket, 1/.
“F.C.” ; Thanks to “The Prooshan ” for
his belated information (B. 12/10/’O5) re “old man
grass.” Why didn’t he call the smelly stuff
southern wood at first and save me two stamps ?
Will now undertake to test the alleged remedy for
fruit pests. If it fails “ Prooshan ” will be duly
informed, in three paragraphs and a blastiferous
peroration.
* * * *
“ Wilbea” : A correspondent (B. 20/7./’O5)
mentions a curious New Guinea method of catch-
ing fish. The fish kite used
at Dobu (8.N.G.), however,
is probably unique. It con-
sists of several leaves of a
tree ( Morinda Citrifolia),
each about a foot long and
three or four inches broad,
sewn together and supported
by a framework of the ribs of
a palm leaf. To this are
attached two strings, one of
which the fisherman holds
and regulates the kite by.
The other is long enough to
reach the water, and may be
from 100 to 300 yards. To
the lower end is fastened a
tassel of dense cobweb. The
fisherman goes out in his
canoe, and flies the kite so as
to keep the tassel bobbing on
the surface of the water.
The teeth of the fish are en-
tangled in the web, and the
capture is then made by means of a small hand-
net.
• * * *
“Tiny Tim”: Broken Hill’s dust and
sand and appalling remoteness from the ozone-
laden sea breezes do not dry up all the humor of
folk. During a brief sojourn in Silver City I have
noticed the following unusual names painted on
residences : “My Wurlie,” “ Paddemelon Patch,”
“ Gassan Gunyah,” “ The Dug - Out,” “ The
Ranch,” “The Landlord’s Lair,” “Bromide
Villa,” “Oxideville,” “Stocks and Shares,” and
one of the nattiest of vine-clad cottages bears the
well-printed legend, “ Pipped -on -the-Post ”
named, perhaps, after the villa the owner didn’t
build with the money he didn’t win on the horse
that didn’t come in first.
“ Thurla ” : The Teebreen-
yah blacks were celebrating
some long-past suecess-
ful raid, in true
white pfeller
style, with a
sports meet-
ing, at the
old sapling
stockyards on
the station.
An extracker
was strutting
around “call-
ingtheodds,”
equipped
with a batter-
ed bookie’s
cash bag that
hehadgot hohl
of somehow.
The fielder ap-
peared to be doing
well, but some one
passed the word
round that he was
a welcher if
‘struck.” So the
fleet - footed ones
kept their eyes
open as each event
was run off. The
125-yards race was
for colored men
only, and Obin
Tommy was reck-
oned a dead cert,
for it. The bookie
climbed on top of
the sapling fence
to call better, and
yelled, “ Here yer
are ! I’ll take five
tshilun tah wan
Obin Tommy; two
tshilun tah wan all
uthers.” He was
rushed with Tom-
my’s backers, who evi-
dently knew something
good. Just as the runners
lined up ior the final, with
Obin Tommy crouched on
scratch, several staunch
supporters climbed up
alongside the “book” to
get a better view. And
when one had deftly hitched the rear part of the
ex-tracker’s belt over a sapling head, the other
accidentally slipped off the fence and grabbed as
he fell the legs of the unwary fielder, pulling him
down to the cross-rails. There they left him sus-
pended several feet above the ground (to be col-
lected after the race) a cursing wriggle of black
profanity.
*** ■ *
“Jay”: I once saw a-wallaby project
himself into a log-fence with disastrous results. It
happened in rather a curious Way. I was shooting
in the ranges round Bungendore and found myself
on a ridge with a crest of big loose boulders. Set
one of these rolling. It bounded off down the
gully faster than a land agent returning from
furrin parts, and made more noise. Half-way
down it broke in two, one half landing on the spot
vacated a small fraction of a second earlier by said
wallaby, who was getting out of the way of the
other half as fast as he knew how. He evidently
lost his head at finding himself surrounded by
flying boulders. Anyhow he hit the top log of the
fence when he came to it, with a whack like a
great Amen. Went down to investigate and found
him dead.
WELLY NT.
Judge Molesworth decided to-day another appeal by a
Chinese against a conviction under the Immigration Be-
striction Act in a court of petty sessions. It was shown
in evidence that appellant had been asked to write the
following by way of “ educational test ” : “ Much interest
has been excited by an article on the relations of-radium,
the sensational charai. of which is only partly concealed
by the, abstruse and technical terms in which the writer
clothes his meaning. The discovery of this new form of
activity of matter is regarded as a most momentous one.”
Judge Molesworth found in favor of appellant, whose occu-
pation was described as that of a gardener, on a technical
point, and quashed the conviction. —S.M.H.
“ Did you pass the educational test?”
“ No savee.”
“ All right. Pass in.”
1 ‘ Thurla ” : I don’t wish to pose as an art
critic, but Lionel Lindsay’s picture (B. 21/9/’O5),
“ Easily Annoyed,” seems to call for some remark.
It is rather unusual, and decidedly dangerous, to
erect a windlass on the bare earth ; one requires
to log up a bit for tipping purposes. Also, if
the man at the handle end intends to wind from
the side he is standing on, he having the rope on
wrong side must wind underhand, which is very
unusual and awkward. It is better to shift the rope.
THE SQUIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With a frequency distressing’ to all who desire to see
Australia kept free from the humble bow and scrape of
England s Hodge, paragraphs appear in the Argus set-
ting forth that Mr. Very-Common-Smith, or some other
hyphenated landlord, has returned from spending in
Europe the money earned for him by his Victorian tenants,
and apubhc welcome was accorded him. If we’re going to
f tait hat-touching and bob-curtseying in Australia, what
in the name of common sense did our fathers come out
here for?—
-Che Western District squire away to distant Europe went,
Meanwhile his tenants grafted hard to earn his heavy
rent;
And when at length the strange far lands on him began to
pall,
The hyphenated squire returned to Hyphenated Hall.
alien all his faithful serfs stood round and cheered in
ecstasy ;
The State school children all marched out to sing their
songs of glee.
ft made him think himself at ’Ome, where yokels touch
their caps,
To see the glad servility of all those humble chaps.
And then as Mulga Bill came up, the cheers rang out
again,
Bill took his pipe from out his mouth and spat with deep
disdain.
But as the carriage passed him by he raised a large brown
hand ;
The coachman pulled the horses up as if Bill had
command.
The squire beamed from his carriage with a blandness
good to see—
He was not wont, metiiinks, to often act so graciously.
He thought, perhaps, Bill wished some slight petition to
present,
As humble men named Bill would do down in the Vale of
Kent.
But with a graceful nonchalance that raised the land-
lord’s ire,
Bill took from out his clothes a match and struck it on
the tyre ;
Then, with the graciousness of one who does a kinglv
deed,
He waved his hand, as in command, and proudly said
“Purceedl"
VIC.
WUSSLEAN.
THE VOICE OF THE BUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Voice of the Bush 1 what doth it say ? ”
Exclaimed the bard, in dreaming- study.
The bush man stared in some dismay,
But truthfully responded “ ! ’
S.A.
DEN.


S4JL&
WOLFE’S Schnapps
MEANS BUSINESS WHEN IT TACKLES
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.G. : Pictures not of much account, and one Joke
distinctly venerable Wasp: One no good ; other not
much good M.A.J. : Gag not very bright, and the two
men don’t look like Domain dossers E.H. : Sketch of
two bees conversing about a, great public question de-
clined. .. .E.A, : “In Jlaoriland ” wouldn’t be much of a
sketch even if you had taken (he trouble tp spell cor-
rectly. .. .Deeby : But are you a judge? In this office it’s
part of the business of life to know what is good black-
and-white. As to “ jealousy ” operating to smother a
promising youngster, that is absur,d. The Bulletin, if
for no oth.er but sordid motives, welcomes any new
talent—real talent—in that line, since if it were refused a
show here it would soon find publication elsewhere
Greyve : Too iabored T.D. : “ Bundaberg Malp ” rather
too local, and picture too faint to reproduce E. Me If. :
“ Boots ” idea old, which makes us suspect the age of the
other two. Sketches not much above schoolgirl 1eve1....
Unsuitable: A.M.
HUFF
CHAINS
Those long-, elegant chains that lend so much grace
to a woman’s attire.
We mike in quantities. We do more—we show each
week the very latest development of them.
Plain Gold in the latest links. Gems set in many forms,
from the latest “Barbaric” type to the most
elegant and refined.
We are cutting them very fine in price. We turn them
out so rapidly, it pap s us to.
LONDON PRICES—plus Duty.
Muft Chains, with
Jewelled Slides, 5./-
to £9 9s.
We make these with
an exquisite finish.
■SSSS^SS3SSS3SSS
We mak,e njany designs,
qualities and weights of
Muff Chains,
50/j- upwards.
London Prices
Plain Figures
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“ Panto” : A Chinaman with a bad tooth-
ache came into the telegraph office where I was.
Our funny man cured him. He disconnected the
main battery and gave John a loose end of the
connection to put in his tooth —then put the other
side of the connection in John’s hand, wet.
Result, a yell of “ Whaffor,” a frantically cavort-
ing Chow, seven smashed battery jars and a con-
sequent interruption to the line—officially un-
accounted for after three months’ correspondence.
The theory advanced was, “Must have been
smashed by expansion owing to the extreme heat.”
Thus does the climate of a healthy State get
Stinking Fish thrown at it to cover the misdeeds
a Chinaman.
SAME HERE (AND NOW).
They would be dragged off to some remote region, where, under the
name of a farm, they would receive a dismal swamp on an uncultivable
hillside.— Annals of Tacitus (p. 33).
Condition of the rank-and-file in Rome, A.D. 14.
“C.X.G.”: “Credo” (B. 5/10/’O5) says
there are no Afghan hawkers. If he came up
this way (Northern S.A.) he would find enough
and to spare. We also have the Hindu and the
Assyrian variety, but they are about played out;
the Afghan is in full bloom. He combines hawk-
ing with carrying. When loading is scarce he
buys a ton or two of flour and some potatoes and
onions, and starts for Queensland, selling as he
goes. He can cut the storekeeper’s throat at this
class of business, for where the latter has to pay
£lO a ton, say, for cartage, the Afghan will cut
the carrying price for himself, and do business all
along the line. Then, if there is any wool to
bring down, he will turn carrier again. Even
when fully loaded as carriers, most of them cart
a small bundle of drapery and fancy rubbish, and
sell as they go—mostly without a license.
“ Chip ” : I
was lately given
particulars of a
Horror by an ex-
Fiji man. (Have
not known him
long enough to
be able to say
whether he is an
unusually obser-
vant person, or a
colossal liar.) 11
v is a long, elastic
marine worm, a
weird beche-de-
mer which prac-
tises physical cul-
ture and calis-
thenics. If
touched with a
stick it draws its
long, slimy yard
of monstrosity to-
gether until it re-
sembles a hard
black ball. If fur-
ther worried it ex-
udes a viscous
milky fluid which
clouds the water
and makes it in-
visible. A con-
tinuation of the
interference ex-
asperates the
beastie, and it sud-
denly turns inside
out, presenting an
appearance calcu-
lated to make a
temperate shark
imagine it has
“got ’em again.”
And if again prod-
ded with a stick
the abortion be-
comes even more
exasperated,
blows itself up to
the size of a large
pig, and bursts
with an appalling
sound, spreading
around a deadly,
sickly effluvia
which temporarily
paralyses anyone
within 20yd. To
see a worm like
this would be
worth a long jour-
ney.
* *
“ Yigilans ”
alleges that S.
Australia is worse
than Westralia in
regard to one form of nigger treatment -
Off the northern shores of North Australia is a place
called Malay Bay. Six or seven prows visit it yearly from
Macassar, and remain for six months at a time getting
trepang. Each boat has from 40 to 50 Malays. When
they go away theyjeave us a legacy of leprosy, or some-
thing else nearly as bad. They are allowed on shore, and
most of their time are camped with the blackfellows, with
whom they barter their shoddy. Gins go off to the prows
at night in dug-outs ; there is no one to interfere. The
Westralian Government has taken steps to stop the lubras
going off to the pearler’s luggers ; also the Malay from
landing. Here, in S. Australia, gins go off to the luggers
in Port Darwin waters, and some horrible cases have been
known of opium-drugging and maltreatment. Malays
land right under the town of Palmerston and give opium
and square gin to the blacks and their lubras. There are
huts in Palmerston where they meet and have wild orgies
unmolested. An unmentionable disease is so prevalent
amongst the blacks that one shudders to think of it.
Chinese in the North-
ern Territory are not al-
lowed to take up mining
leases, but they are allowed
to become tributors. One
white man has 30 leases
(mostly of 80 acres), which
he has let to Chinese, with
out a white man on the
lot. Some have as many
as 10 tributors. The white
man gets 10 per cent, of
the tin won. Drastic action
should be taken at once
in this matter. Solomon
and Mitchell, the Territory
Ms.P., are perfectly aware
of the facts, and should see
that a new Mining Bill
dealing with this matter is
introduced and pushed
through the S.A. Parlia-
ment. There is plenty of
metal in the Territory, and
if there were no Chows
there, it would be a good
place for a working miner.
Now, it is only good for
sharks and boodlers, who
live by sweating. At Wandi
(N.T.), a mere handful of
white men have 300 Chinese
working leases. This place
alone would give work to
at least 100 whites. Pine,
Yam, and Brock’s Creeks are the same; where
you see one white man you see 100 Asiatics work-
ing leases for him.
* * * *
“Deeby” : I lately passed a Government
tank on the C< ndobolin-Nymagee (N.S.W.) road.
It is let to the present “ caretaker ” at a few pounds
a year. There are hundredsof acres of good fenced-
in land included with the tank, so the “caretaker ”
runs a dairy and pig farm. The stock has access
to the tank itself, therefore you can imagine what
the water is like. Everywhere the fences are
falling down for want of a little attention, while
the expensive front gate is dropping to pieces for
the lack of a bolt. There are many other Govern-
ment tanks in as bad a condition. And these are
some of the reproductive works in which have
been swamped hundreds of thousands of our hard-
borrowed money.
ADVERTISING AUSTRALIA ABROAD.
THE FAT PERSON (to J. Bull family): “Ladies and gentlemen, I have
pleasure in introducing to you a full-grown male specimen of the true
Australian. Pray keep your seats; he is securely chained. Observe
the animal closely, and you will not be surprised to hear that his
manners are bad, and his morals are awful. I exhibit him in the hope
of encouraging British emigrants of the better class to flock to Australia.”
“Freewheel,” from the native part of
Maoriland :
“ Hello,” I said to my friend, “ where is the racing
track?” “That’s it in front of you.” “What! That
ditch ! Why, it looks like a tunnel with the top off ! ”
On closer inspection I found it had been excavated, thus
leaving the track with a steep bank about two feet high
on each side, from which hung dry cocksfoot grass. One
rider, % hen complaining bitterly of the pain caused by
the dry ends of the grass hitting his shins, said, “ Why, I
cool'd have won, only I thought someone was throwing
stones at me,” The bell to summon riders to their marks
was not ai. wered promptly, as the competitors refused
to start until all dogs were secured. This step was quite
justified, as there were four times more dogs than Maoris.
If a rider were to cast his eye heavenwards, when riding
round the track, it was to gaze into the face of a Maori
dog, who, with protruding snout, stood on the bank
scrutinising things with a devouring look. When all dogs
had been fastened up the ground presented an amazing
appearance. Here stood a Maori woman with three dogs
tied to her waist with flax, her waist measuring about
three laps to the mile. Further on, a dusky child had a
huge mongrel tied to a perambulator, in which peacefully
reposed several copper-colored children. The starter
stood majestically on the bank, with a look which plainly
said, “ I shall do my duty or die.” Beside him were the
three dogs which were using the old lady for an anchor.
When the whistle sounded “ All ready,” the starter raised
a cumbersome weapon in mid-air and fired. Never was a
louder report in Maoriland since Tarawera blew up.
With one accord the three dogs leapt skyward, taking the
anchor with them, and fell through what should have
been the top of the tunnel on to the track. Several riders
immediately charged into the seething mass of dogs, flax,
and woman, and to add to the commotion, a pram was
seen advancing at a furious rate, with a dog attached,
straight for the scene of action. One infant fell out safely
on to the grass, but the others were hurried remorselessly
into the fray. The starter was disarmed when just on the
point of firing on the combatants. The heat was eventually
started again, but owing to the absence of several officials,
who were discussing dog-fights in the refreshment room,
the competitors were allowed to ride several miles further
than they should have done. In fact, they intended to
ride until darkness intervened had not someone shouted
out for them to sprint. All concerned, except the placed
men, wanted it run again, as the officials had unjustly
awarded the places to the first three men at the end of six
miles, whereas the race was a 2-mile one. For two solid
hours argument ensued. The placed men refused to start
if the race was run over again, and threatened to sue the
promoters for £57,000 damages. The officials brought the
local doctor to argue with the competitors, but he only
made matters worse. Then they tried the local lawyer,
but his decision was upset by a well-known racing cyclist.
Then everybody gave his advice gratis. Eventually the
entrance fees were refunded and the race declared off.
Two dogs were injured.
* * * *
A S.A. teacher asked a pupil the use of
rivers and was answered by a lad with, alas, much
experience : “ When they are dry you can get
sand from the bottom of them.”
* * » *
Dr. T. F. MacDonald, of the Bureau of
Tropical Disease, (deraldton (N.Q.), lecturing in
Melbourne:—■
Under tropical conditions the white people could work
and flourish. The old danger of disease had, to a large
extent, disappeared. North Queensland was growing a
fine white race, many with the almost abnormal chesf
expansion of 7in. His observation showed him that the
white gangs in the sugar fields are really healthier than
colored gangs working- under the sam,e conditions. Any
large alien population would only lead to the physical,
mental, and moral deterioration of the white races.
A BALLAD OF BATTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bill Thomson was a burly bloke ;
His weight was twelve stone ten.
No dog dare bark when William spoke
Among the station men.
At boxing he was very deft —
Or so he used to skite ;
He said he had “ a dirty left ”
And “ very ugly right.”
He used to boss the other chaps
And order them about ;
They seemed to be afraid ; perhaps
They thought they’d get a clout !
The station hands at Dingolong
Mere nervous seemed to grow ;
It certainly was very strong
How Thomson ran the show !
At length there came to Dingolong
A silent sert of man ;
He too was sinewy and long,
His name, we learned, was Dan.
He came to act as station cook
And bake the ’possum pie ;
He had a calm, determined look,
And steely cold grey eye.
One day Bill Thomson growled a bit
About the breakfast meat,
An 1 swore the brownie wasn’t fit
For Chinamen to eat.
“ It’s all you’ll get,” observed the cook,
In gentle tones and bland ;
“ And growling doesn’t suit my book,
You’ll kindly understand.”
Bill Thomson stared ! Bill Thomson swore !
“ My special oath ! ” said he ;
“ Why, never did I hear before
Sich words addressed to me !
Just come outside, my gentleman,
And then, by all that’s blue,
I’ll show these fellows how I can <
Knock saucepans our of you ! ”
The slim-built cook, I may remark,
Was brought from Sydney town
By devious means and dodges dark,
To take Bill Thomson down !
And it was whispered, I may state,
Although he looked so tame,
He was a first-class middle-weight,
And understood the game !
Who won the fight, you ask ? Well, look—
Of all the sickening scenes 1
Bill Thomson bashed that blessed cook
To blessed Smithereens !
His cold grey eye did William close—
He knocked him all about,
He knocked hiip on his cold grey nose,
And then he knocked him out.
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on .I [S. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
James Marshall: The Bulletin doesn’t worry
about any religion except where it touches on politics.
A section of N.S.W. Protestantism (the Orange sectionj has
allied itself with the Foreign-trade party, and every candi-
date it puts up is a Foreign-trader and a virulent enemy
of Australian industry. Also a large number of the
Protestant clergy have allied themselves with the nigger-
labor party (the Anglican Synod recently' passed a pro-
nigger resolution, and allowed an Anglican bishop to tell
it that Asiatic civilisation was ahead of the civilisation of
Europe); and others (Fitchett, by way of a sample) have
joined the Stinking Fish gang—Fitchett is now telling
Europe generally about the imaginary horrors of this
country 7. So far, we haven’t come across any R.C. priest
who hollers for Foreign-trade, the destruction of Aus-
tralian industry, low wages, Kanakas, and the giving
away of this country to the scum of Asia, but when we
do we will make remarks to him. Perhaps when you call
The Bulletin “ the R.C. organ,” you reckon that it
should advocate the destruction of Australian industry
because most of the R.C. crowd seem to be for Australia..
Manton : There is a gentle prettiness about some of them,
but not much strength... .Juck 11. : “Our Brother the
Jap” is much too rugged Will J. : “Spring in Aus-
tralia” is a rather confused item.... D. : “Flogging” is a
very rocky thing Bushgirl: “One Morning” well-
written, but hasn’t enough climax. “ Coming Home ”is
better, but it wrestles with a very hackneyed theme....
W. W. : “ Bush Miles ” and the other are rocky in one or
two spots, and it is difficult to repair those spots ..
C.B. : “Study in Blue and Gold and White ” just misses
the ’bus....W.M. : “ Cleopatra ” is pretty good verse, but
the extreme deadness of the lady is a drawback.... O :
“ The Spectre ” has been carefully 7 inspected and found
wanting-....H. : “Deluge” and the other two are too
scrappy Warrian : The person sitting by the fire and
dreaming about “days gone by ” had better be dead
“Draw Poker”: Well, Mr. A. was a remarkably good
dealer A.Y.Z. : Can you tell the character of a dredge
by standing on the shore and watching- it? Some of this
paper’s published information came from a man who
worked on board the lamented craft.... W.T.M.: Graphic,
but lacking in general interest... .Wm. P. : You have
good descriptive power, and should do well with practice.
M.L.: Sorry “Owl ” is still below the mark W. H. M.:
Couldn’t be much worse... .Zeno :No command of style
as yet Platman : Kind of thing that needs greater
skill than y 7 ours... .R.A.K.: “ Mothers” is well-conceived,
but lacks compactness and symmetry Maori D. : The
pugilistic parson is too ancient a device....G. Prosser:
Much too long and prosy Gava : Conventionality kills
you, but some of them have promise.... W.: “Richmond”
too local. The other is very g00d....“De Mortuis Nil
Nisi Bonum ” : No name or address, and it looks like an
American steal W.Y. : “Longings” are very in-
distinct spectres from the land of Yearn, probably
the result of poetry made on an empty stomach.
.... Daniel D. : Ol.d clo’ joke unsavory—and 01d....
F.G.K. : Hopelessly bad Waal: A curious mixture of
strength and weakness Thomo : A tame trifle
A.J.P. : Feebly conventional W.M'D. : Too awkward
in form J.B. : “Rooster” is absolutely childish....
Wahine : Not amiss ; but parodies are barred except in
very special cases.... M. : “Confession” has more vigor
than skill Will L. : Artificial and overstrained De
Facto : Very weak and inartistic A.G.W. : Humorous,
but faulty in detail C.C.B. : Your hand isn’t strong
enough S.K. O’K. : Prosy and uninteresting
Dominus : You have no narrative gift Potjostler : It
made us very tired... .Philistine : Cut out pars and send
to Bulletin accountant. Verses have a glimmer of merit.
Nulla: Tale well written, but flat and lifeless
Frank G. : A rough piece of work Neville G. : All
been said before—and better! T.H.R. : Thanks....
Dayton :“ A Shift ” rather rocky... .E.W.D. : The verses,
as you point out, were a steal, and the person who sent
them could be put in gaol for getting money under false
pretences—-if it were worth while. At the same time, the
swindler was a writer of some alleged standing, and so
well known that it seemed a case where no suspicion was
called for F.E.L. : Sorry they don’t suit us Jean
H. : Very crude work Clare: Too long for the interest.
Queenie P. : Falls rather flat Huck S.: No good.
.. ..Glenbarr : Well versified, but one subject is trivial
and the other conventional E.M.: Too conventional a
“regret” poem S.T.T. : Pay for anything, long or
short, that is printed Disgusted: But perhaps the ball
was for a charity. North Queensland isn’t a mean place.
... .Flaneur: Hardly enough snap... .TiakiParata : About
up to the level of musical comedy jingle W.M. : Inten-
tions of “ Gentle Chinese ” good, but it takes more than
good intentions to make verse W.G.P. : We take it
that “ Squidge ” only referred to those Salv’army lasses—
and they are not rare—who themselves proclaim their
past wickedness Don: Schoolboy “howlers” rather
out of our line G.B.S. : Not in our way Ping: Of
course the Japanese won Rorna : The school ma’am
who decided after all not to marry the farmer because he
said “ was yer ” was a fool. She may one day have to take
in washing to keep a husband of irreproachable grammar.
B.C.W. : (1) Will note. (2) The Bulletin itself is a
good deal Scotch when it can spare time from being Aus-
tralian Subscriber : You can’t have subscribed long, or
you would know that The Bulletin gives no countenance
to the loathly habit of writing anonymous letters about
individuals’ morals Index : Put on our Index Ex;purga-
torius... .Nat G. : That yarn was told in The Bulletin
within the last few 7 months C.W.B. : Neat enough, but
hackneyed Dogsox : Too trivial Daba : You stop at
the interesting point, Please write when you’ve disr
covered what the haunt of your haunted house is stuffed
with Pimpinis : An old yarn, of quite too pink a tone,
anyhow The Mussel: Your suggestion that the Argus
should take a popular vote as to the Twelve Best Bush-
rangers referred to that journal W.0.C.D.: Been given
before Krex: (1) The agents for the Petriana were
free to land the colored crew in Australia if thejagave
guarantees that the men would all be shipped away again.
This was required, not only by the Australian Immigra-
tion Law, but the British Shipping Law 7 . (2) The Petriana
crew were removed by another ship, which happened to
come along before they landed Unsuitable: B.T.
G.J.0., Oktis, H.K., C.S.K., Oliver, J.G.B.


fool labour may be dtjan
u5«/eSS, V for 1 usance i[ ardei'd' -
miner Were do smK 3k shaftin'
Coilihi SV -Ay-
- And yet" Da/ie N
4 fere aye paid »ni»7«S
in (ol'ins s. ! jd
; i'i 11 << 11 |i( 11 h 111! fIiV /1 I n/m m'lli ~~
/ At Mclblown HaH-Certifiers
Were oiven out' About" dlje l*fe
sAsygtyS?li\h E>hibitl<m M r ße?d
got' one - fsiews ite.tr>.
i Ijaye *n«cli f>lea^are., fny liitte \oy, in
you litlte “loKen, As 'itje
sUnderar ofr A u S‘ r »A**^ r » Industries ! •’
J tlrdent dfcugbt
%o. CJoVernnjent'
ouoKt"do encour*pe
\loc\l <>
b|it>7 rjext’'nyorn^^
3 e^~ l/es tied
sol da be di ictd(fQcl
'to by %«■ —- dj
vWt I S |ir eVer
V b<^>. Jl
V llje fi>lica bve beer,
directed, do |?ay sj>eciaO
Ajdlen+ion do tf>« Yooj-i oj bu 1 lcli n os
on dtj e ,r treats fo hvrnbo-
of c&&e% oj sHo|>' breaking recently,
wbtre bare entrance
b.y «o€d>vii .
S*\ 'lew dy jjo of-
Will Surely be heeded 0r tsts
VfotK say a "between a //toUrf'
ĥ
boy 4l
cbVAeder «b before / / \ d
Tusdice A'RetKcH‘for
J jobbery l | / jj
V 1
V And +0 d« you attribute,,
'jour downfall, d**r broiler?"
’ Reddin' T^ooderbol^Sir!
ON YARRA’S SHORE.


A HAT DELIRIUM.
The Australian House of Reps, has the Hat Mania badly. It contains about six members who never make a speech without moaning “ Six
Hatters!” And last week 31 questions about hats (16 of them by B. Smith) were put on the notice-paper, because a consignment of hats had got
into trouble over a matter of alleged under-valuation. Samples of the arrested hats were brought into the House and tried on by excited
members. Prime Minister Deakin rose to explain amid a maddened chaos of hats.


After Henry Irving had achieved fame the
D.C.L. degree was thrust upon him. But to what
extent did that other D.C.L. the whisky to wit
—assist his eareer ! Most men admit that for
flashes of inspiration at critical moments the
whisky of the scholarly brand is to be relied upon
every time. No one can partake judiciously of
D.C.L. without proving by result that it is in
truth the Whisky of the Wise and the glory of
Life’s drama. “All the world's a stage, and all
its greatest men drink its Wisest Whisky ” as
Shakespeare didn’t say.*
XriAS EDITION
.... OF ....
The Bulletin, 1905,
/4 Special & Enlarged Issue.
Published on DECEMBER 14.
It will contain Verses, Sketches and Stories, grave and
gay, by the foremost writers of the Commonwealth.
The illustrations will represent the best Black and White
work in Australia, and will picture the national humor.
Tub Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year, is the
standard epitome of the life of young Australia. ’
Agents will be supplied at the usual
rates, but, in conseguence of the heavy
outlay on this Special Edition, NO
RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post 'free to any of the Commonwealth
States and New Zealand, 6kd. ; Foreign addresses, Bd.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Stated that a member of the suddenly-dis-
solved V estralian Parliament intends suing the
Government for breach of contract, also for a
month s salary in lieu of notice.
A rumor still goes round that Oscar Wilde
a “ ve - 4- \'T lter in aa American monthly, the
ORmo, explicitly states, in a signed article, that
llde is living in a Spanish monastery, and has
been spoken to by men who know him.
Westralia has also its Sudden Solomon—
only mwe sudden. Newton Moore, Minister for
Lands m the Bason Government, was sworn in at
the last sitting of Parliament, and sworn out two
minutes later by a dissolution. .Left swearing 1 .
Died at Toowoomba (Q.) a week or two
ih°’n ag f d Mrs ‘ , Thoma s Alford, who named
the Darling Downs city when it was first laid out,
and who was one of the first three white women
o venture into that district. Her sixth son was
the first white infant born in Toowoomba.
The parson who tides to hurry sinners
towards salvation generally meets with trouble
sooner or later. An ex-Sydney shepherd took to
delivering tracts in Adelaide hotels the other
mght, and a son of Belial laid aside his beer and
struck him heavily on what he smells with.
From Corowa (N.S.W.) Free Press
Mr. Bruce Smith is not frequently given to levitv the
senousness of the wrongs suffered by the patrician clas!
to which he immaculately belongs are too real, and weigh
iSff'o&r o' the sSS
Victor Nelson Hood, the private secretary
of Governor LeHunte, got a little reflected glory
during the Trafalgar day celebrations in Adelaide
because his father (Lord Bridport) was a grand-
nephew of Admiral Nelson. It is a far-off re-
rad knee Jut made sonie kiud of dim tem P° rar y
An accommodating politician is Keyser of
Westralia. He sat in the late Parliament as a
Labor member, but expresses his willingness to
contest the seat this time as an Independent: or,
it that doesn t suit, as a Ministerialist. Ap-
parently the only point Keyser insists on is the
salary.
ARCHDEACON HINDLEY, OF MELBOURNE.
A darky at a Wyalong (N.S.W.) Quarter
Sessions case, badgered by G. H. Reid to illustrate
the size of a hole down which he threw something,
finally said “ It was as big round as your stomach ”
The Court roared. The hole was found on subse-
quent measurement to be 3ft. in diameter. So it
wasn’t a very bad guess.
August Englehardt, the eccentric founder
of a sect of Sun Worshippers numbering four
cranks, whose chief “ plank ” was to live in a naked
condition on the beach of a remote Pacific isle is
still alive and naked. He was slain by a circum-
stantial .press report in July last, and The
Bulletin shed a tear over his demise. Said tear
is hereby swallowed.
REGARDING THE NEW NOTICE IE
THE PARKS.
“And I can assure you , Brown , when I pulled him out he was a black bream—well—
fully that long,” d[?]., d[?].
Mr. S. Irish, the first Druids’ secretary in
Australia, and the man who secured the first dis-
pensation for a lodge of long-beards (this was at
Adelaide in 1850), has passed out at Brisbane,
aged 79. He came to Australia 60 years ago,
and spent most of those years in the Queensland
capital selling drapery. Consequently when he
IJruided he had the advantage of being’able to sell
himself his own long pale shirt at cost price.
Brewers and ex-brewers are a healthy
race in Australia. F. J. Butting is 86, and goes
to business regularly. E. T. Smith is 74. and
►w-fo ca K e all the social functions.
V\ ilham Knapman is very active in his antiquity.
As a young man Botting was a builder, Smith an
ironmonger, and Knapman a carpenter. Last-
named turned a theatre and hotel, built at Port
Adelaide by George Coppin, into a beer foundry
away back in the times when the average citizen
drove his thirst before him like a herd of cattle
because it was too large and numerous to be
carried in the ordinary way.
Died in S. Aus., “Corny” Proud, who,
like two or three others, left the Inky Way to do
something considerable on the Adelaide Stock Ex-
change. But most times he had to play a lone
hand there. Even when at the top of the silver
boom he was running one of the biggest share-
broking businesses in Australia, he still kept up
his letters to the papers and his speeches against
I at and Monopoly ; and the rest of the Stock Ex-
chonge reckoned that that wasn’t playing the
game. He put in good work in recent years on
behalf of the municipalisation of Adelaide trams,
and in most things his energy was on the right
side. ‘
At a recent meeting of the Collingwood
(Melb.) branch of the P.L.L. the allegation was
made that Wilkins, M.L.A., had ceased to be
a financial member of the League and was six
quarters in arrears with his subscriptions. The
president decided that he had lost his membership
of the branch, and the question of finding some
Labor candidate other than Wilkins for next elec-
tion - was vvarml y discussed. Next night Mr.
Wilkins moved the adjournment of the Vic
Assemble “the position of the Victorian Racing
Club and the by-laws which have been exercised
against Wren of the Tote. Did Mr. Wilkins mean
that to assert his fitness to represent the Collins-
wood Labor League in Parliament ?
Died the other day, aged 86, William
M Intosh, the virtual founder of Narracoorte
(b.A.) township. He came to Sydney in 1837
passed down to Victoria, and thence in 1845
“overianded” to the Narracoorte district. In
1.848, as a storekeeper, he started a settlement
which he called Kincraig, after his birthplace in
Inverness (Scotland), on the south side of Narra-
coorte Creek. Nine years later the Government
laid out Narracoorte township on the other bank
but Mac.’s village had the business, and kept
most of it. Later on he “ squatted ” pretty con-
siderably, among the estates he either owned or
shared being Baker’s Range, Mount Scott
Cromer, Narracoorte, and Moy Hall. Reverses
came m time, and he went off the land, and put
in the rest of his days in a stock and station
agency business.
, North Queensland even the parson
isn’t the ordinary sort of parson. The best-
known of him, Archdeacon Campbell, of Cairns
is partly preacher and partly metallurgist If lie
preaches a sermon on Tophet, he straightway
delivers a lecture on some mineral or other to
balance things. Back of Cairns more prospecting
is going on now than anywhere else in Australia 0 ;
and the archdeacon spends most of his time
making free assays and giving gratis advice to
the man who reckons he has dropped on to some-
thing. Which suggests a new scheme for the
training of parsons, just officially alleged to be
most defective. The parson or parson ess who is
sent out to the heathen land ahead of the rifle
and the rum has to study medicine; why not
tea,oh the local parson how to treat lumpy jaw
and pickle wheat ? Why should only the heathen
get something thrown in with his Christianity.
The old lifers” of Maoriland Upper
House grow very few One more died last week
T. Peacock, a Hawkesbury
native born m 1827. He went to
Maoriland in 1812, and sat m the Maoriland
t P il er ,7i ou l° tonot much purpose for 27 years.
In the 20 s there was a large family of Peacocks at
Windsor, Penrith, and Bathurst.
Died at Gerogery, near Albury, the other
day, August . Fnederick Heppner, a sturdy old
Herman by birth, a sturdy Australian by adop-
tion. When Lyne first stood for Parliament it
was at the instigation of Heppner, who stumped
the electorate and practically secured the seat for
the present Minister of Customs. Heppner could
neither read nor write, but was singularly shrewd
and for more than 30 years was the most influential
man in the district.
at Holman is now acting as leader of
JN.b. W. Labor party. He is, for grace of diction
and fluency, probably the finest speaker in Aus-
trana, but never uses one word when six will do
and he prefers ten. On a subject with which he
is familiar he can, it is said, talk for three days :
on a subject of which he knows nothing 1 for three
weeks. Ihere is a big chance for a man capable
of lifting the N.S.W. Labor party out of the rut.
as Holman that man ?
Premier Bent, as described by the Age
Ben b bj tween the intervals of initiating brick-
neSnant abai)do " in «’ them, has devoted
ixnufeeii to the cultivation of comic singing. He is honest
enough probably, and certainly exhaustless in industry,
end pnd o a ' ld br ® at . hle . ss sort of way. He will fiv from
fhv t 0 e , nd of Hctona. in a week, and look into every
Uf'®f' and 'S lx penn.v affair that may be sprung upon him.
He knows the history of every twopenny grievance in the
sei vice, and can tell the name of every occupant of a
crossing ; but he can no more emancipate his
d r S and apply ifc fco questions oi
Statesmanship than he can eschew the foibles and frip.
penes which have linked his every public appearance with
tne request— Give us a song.”
Little Jenkinson, the Queensland M.L. A.,
who preaches on Sunday and runs a small-beer
paper during the week, now sits on the front
Opposition bench, beside Philp and Leahy, much
to their disgust. Jenkinson posed for a while as
the coming Premier—the man who was going to
Su P i e u unoccupied area of Queensland with
i hup ; but as the country refused to take him
seriously he now strikes the attitude of an ex-
member of the Philp Government and one of the
boss exiles..
In Westralia the disorganised Labor party
has rejected the useful ex-Labor Minister Hastie,
and given the nomination for Kanowna to that
fluent person, Pommy Walker, once of N S W
the person whose revolver went off in a train
whereby parson Laseron was shot in the back’
the writer remembers Walker best as a short man
in a petticoat, playing the name-part in “ Marmon-
deLe the Moor, a drama of his own concoction.
Marrnondelle had a friend to whom he made
speeches ten minutes long about the abstract
virtues, while the friend stood wearily first on one
leg and then on the other, and wished that
Marrnondelle were dead. That was many years
ago, but the friend has been gone in the feet ever
since.
Pastor Worthington, the man who swin-
dled various women withincomprehensible remarks
about Egypt, is likely to get out of liis Victorian
gaol. It is alleged that his health is affected by
oakum-picking and by confinement in a building
that is wholly devoid of ornament. The Govern-
ment has lent part of an ear to the appeals and
promises that if medical evidence shows the grey-
headed conbdence man s health to be really going
an order will be signed for his release. Yet any
number of men who were not cronk parsons, and
didn t have beautiful grey hair and an upward ex-
pression like one looking for an angel in a tree-top,
have been allowed to die in gaol. The difference
really lies m the hair and the holy aspect. Those
whom Worthington took down helped to send him
to gaol in a burst of temper. Now they have re-
pented and remember the old man’s hair again,
and picture it hanging out of the cell window in
t ie moonlight, and being trodden on by the coarse
warder as he goes by on his rounds. Great is the
power of ha r.
W. P. Crick wouldn’t miss his Caulfield
Cup for all the criminal prosecutions on earth,
and lie bullied hard for his fortnight’s remand, and
got it. It is worth betting that he will bully hard
and successfully for another remand to carry him
over the Melbourne Cup, and then he will return
refreshed by Horse, and put up a fight worth
seeing.
“ Melb.” : Capillary Bevan lards the lean
earth again. What jolly jaunts these Revs, do
have ! His Collins-street congregation is abso-
lutely miserable in point of numbers, but why
should he care? The income is big, especially
since the Federal Government has taken such a
slice of the church’s endowment of brickwork.
Some facts about W. N. Willis (sum-
marised), from an evidently admiring friend, in
All About Australians
His grandfather was a Peninsular War veteran, Private
Willis, who married and settled in N.S.W. in Governor
Darling’s time. Private Willis had a son, John Willis, a
farrier, of Mudgee, noted for his physical strength.
John Willis had a large family, of which one was William
Nicholas, born at Mudgee 47 years ago. John Willis left
for [Frisco, died there, and Mrs. Willis was left with
William Nicholas and the rest of the family. She made
a brave struggle and brought up the youngsters de-
cently. Among other enterprises of the widow was a
dressmaking business, and she employed there Sarah Bed-
ford, the first wife of John Haynes, one of the Haynes who
haunt William Nicholas. The great land agent picked up
his education mostly at a night school. His first job was
in an office at 2s. 6d. a w eek. Then he was a “ super ” at
the old Victoria Theatre, Pitt-street, managed by John
Bennett. William Nicholas was a handsome youth with a
curly mane and a bonny blue eye, and John Bennett took
a fancy to him and promoted him to small parts. W.N.
played as W. N. Kingston. A chest£gmplaint drove him
out West and he was a store-hand, then a successful
hawker, again a storekeeper, and then a pastoralist. He
dipped into journalism as part owner of Truth and finally
took to land agency.
An old fogey thus :
Apropos “ Wentworth the Lag” (B. 19/10/’O5). Don’t
blame Macquarie only in the matter of this error. I don’t
suppose the Wentworths of to-day care in what position
their Australian progenitor arrived. In a despatch to
Gastlereagh (April 1810) Macquarie wrote : “ The number
of persons of this description—emancipists—whom I have
admitted to my table consist of only four, namely Mr.
D’Arcv Wentworth, principal surgeon ; Mr. William Red-
fern, assistant surgeon ; Mr. Andrew Thompson, an opu-
lent farmer and proprietor of land ; and Mr. Simeon Lord,
an opulent merchant. Three of these persons have
acquired property to a large amount ; they have con-
ducted themselves with the greatest propriety, and I
find them at all times ready to come forward in the most
liberal manner to the assistance of the Government. In
order to mark my sense of the merits of Mr. Andrew
Thompson, I have already appointed him a justice of the
peace and magistrate at the Hawkesbury, where he has a
large property, and I intend to confer the same marks of
distinction on Mr. Wentworth and Mr. Simeon Lord when
vacancies in the magistracy at Sydney, where they both
reside, may occur.” These two were appointed J’s.P.
17/5/1810.
In 1812, in a publication known as The Newgate
Calendar, the following appeared : “D’Arcy Wentworth,
once a famous highwayman on the road leading to the
metropolis, became a Botany Bay Esquire with two offices
under Government. He was Surgeon-General, a Justice
of the Peace, and a trustee for the public roads.”
. B. Barton, in “ Poets and Prose Writers,” published
in 186-said this “ William Charles Wentworth was born
at Norfolk Island in 1701. His father, D’Arcv Wentworth,
went there in the previous year, and a certain authority
tells us that he was ‘particularly noticed’ by Major
Ross, the Commandant, who on account of his ‘abilities
and reputation, immediately appointed him a superin-
tending surgeon of the island.” Bligh, on the trial of
Colonel Johnston, alluded to D’Arcv Wentworth as
having been sent out, and the statement went un-
challenged.
In 1898, nearly 40 years after “ Poets and Prose Writers “
was published, Mr. G. B. Barton published in a Sydney
newspaper a life of W. C. Wentworth, and was taken to
task for “ Bowdlerising ” history in the account given of
DArcy Wentworth’s advent to Norfolk Island. Mr.
Barton backs down somewhat, and ignores Macquarie’s
mention, giving Bligh as the author of the scandal. Mac-
quarie’s despatch reached England before Johnstone’s
trial, which took place on May 11,1811, and lasted a
month. Barton practically calls Bligh a liar, inasmuch
as he (Bligh) must have known that Wentworth came out
free, he (Bligh) having all the papers concerning prisoners
6tc., at his command. But in this Barton errs, as the
early Governors—notably King—complained that ship-
loads of prisoners and exiles were sent out without a scrap
of paper to indicate their offences or their sentences.
A man of great holding power.
Czar possesses more capacity than any of his
Ministers.— SYDNEY MORNING HERALD.
Queensland Hansard, through a rush of
work, has now to engage an extra man for the
Assembly one night a week. An average night
there means something like eight ordinary news-
paper columns per man. With a late sitting it
means more. Yet all the chief has been allowed
tor the extra hand expected to turn out this quan-
tity of copy is £1 a night (or, at most, 2s. 6d. a
column). That is sheer sweating, which "even
liard-up Queensland ought not to find necessary.
G. SMITH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Souls that thirst for the healing stream, come seek
salva-she-on
From Gipsy Smith, and Banger Brown, and Roarer
Robinson ;
Bearn biessedness from Crooked Kate ! Find help from
Mildew Maud !
Let Sloppy Sal dismiss your grief and turn your hearts to
Hear Mag the Missionary preach, and shun your sins with
shame ;
Hear Phunmo Wilson’s doctrines told in words that burn
like flame ;
1 ? 6 ChUrCh ° f % ° DaVe ! hear Backblox Bill
Hark how the words of Mungo Mick will cut the devil
short !
Oh they that preached the Gospel first had spread it
faster far
By advertising it with names resembling those that are •
Tnen Pusher Paul, and Pete the Pug, and all their kin
and kith
Had made the soul-redeeming path more smooth for
Gipsy Smith 1
VIC.
LAM.


ANTHONY HORDERN’S
FAMOUS
MANY A MAN a™
MANY A WOMAN
is grateful For Wonders
worKedthrough
Anthony Hordern's Famous Low Prices.
Render Saving
Easy*
LOW PRICES
RENDER SAVING EASY and
WEALTH POSSIBLE. They
FOSTER the good CAUSE of
DOMESTIC ECONOMY, and tend
TOWARDS THE CREATION of
FINANCIAL PARADISE.
Many a Butcher-
'• Vj
VJ\
Many a Baker
Many a Cook
Many a Drape:
Many a Clerk-
Many a Lumper
medium of Anthony Hordern’s Famous Low Prices.
Can THANK THEIR STARS for many a BUMPER that Has come to tHeir lot per
Anthony Hordern’s Famous Low Prices
are, to quote THE LINES of a CELEBRATED WRITER,
“PLAIN FOR ALL FOLK TO SEE-!”
They are neither ENIGMATICAL nor HIEROGRAPHICALj
they tell a “ PLAIN UNVARNISHED TALE** of
ANTHONY HORDERN’S GREAT SUCCESS.
Anthony Hordern’s Famous Low Poices
Have been praised in both POETRY and PROSE. Every now
and then, TENDER. LITTLE VERSES, written on PRETTY
PINK PAPER enclosed in enchanting envelopes, reach ns,
full of PLEASANT PRAISE, and EVERY DAY thousands of
thanKs expressed through RIVERS OF INK, meandering over
REAMS of PAPER, tell ns a story of Great APPRECIATION of
Anthony Hordern’s Famous Low Prices.
PR.ICE LIST (illustrated and otherwise), FASHION BOOKS, and Information sent POST FREE ANYWHERE.
ANTHONY HORDERN SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS & &
Palace Emporium, vSYDNEY.
THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Thirty-Fifth Report*
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General
Meeting on 27th October, 1905.
..£12,376 9 0
TpHE Directors have pleasure in submitting to Shareholders the annexed Balance Sheet and Statement of Accounts
* for the half-year ending 30th September, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £4137 15s. lOd. brought from last half-year) amount to ..
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz. :
To pay the usual dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum .. ..£4,500 0
Transfer to the Reserve Fund (making it £45,000) s>ooo O
And to carry forward the balance 2,876 J
-£12,376 9 0
The Directors are pleased to be able to report a satisfactory half-year. The increase of business referred to in
March last has been well maintained through the dull season of the year, but profits have again been adversely
affected bv the close-cut rates for London Exchange. , „ ,„ ri ~,
The Directors have to record with extreme regret the death of their esteemed colleague, Mr. Charles Camp bell,
who always took a very keen and active interest in the affairs of the bank, of which he was one of the original
directors and a large shareholder. The vacancy thus created has, according to the articles of association, to be filled
by the board, who have this important matter under consideration. ,' ’ ' . ... ~ . ~ .
The Directors again beg to thank Shareholders for the substantial support accorded to the institution in the past,
to which its success is largely due, and they hope for a continuance of the same “ enlightened selfishness in the
future. By Order of the Board,
H. T. WILSON, Manages.
BALANCE-SHEET
Dr.
OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
For the Half-year ending 30th September, 1905. Cr.
CAPITAL and LIABILITIES.
To Capital authorised—
-600,000 shares of £4
each £2,400,000 0 0
Capital subscribed —
First issue of 150,000
shares .. .. .. £600,000 0 0
Capital paid up .. £150,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. .. 40,000 0 0
Profit and loss account 12,376 9 0
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation
Government deposits .. .. Nil
Other deposits—rebate
and interest accrued —
Not bearing interest.. £190,436 16 6
Bearing interest .. 699,167 3 4
Balances due to other banks
£202,376 9 0
8,018 0 0
52,290 6 0
£889,603 19 10
480 1 8
£1,152,768 16 6
Contingent liabilities as per contra .. 216,097 0 0
£1,368,865 16 6
ASSETS.
By Coin, bullion, and cash
at bankers ~ ..£274,231 011
Notes and. bills of other
banks 459 5 3
Balances due from other
banks .. .. .. 14,652 16 6
Bills and remittances in
transit and payable in
London.. .. .. 94,762 8 4
Government, municipal
and otherpublic stocks,
debentures and funds 114,900 0 0
Stamps 360 19 10
£499,366 10 10
Real estate, consisting of—
Bank premises .. 55,000 0 0
Other real estate at cost to bank .. 20,767 610
Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts .. .. .. .. 576,804 18 10
Bank furniture, fittings, stationery, &c. 830 0 0
£1,152,768 16 6
Liabilities and securities of customers
and others in respect of contingent
liabilities, as per contra .. .. 216,097 0 0
£1,368,865 16 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, i*>nt and other charges .. .. £3,695 011
Income tax paid 313 1 6
Balance.. .. •. 12,376 9 0
£16,384 11 5
..£13,637 15 10
By Balance at 31st March, 1905
Less dividend declared 27th
April, 1905 ... ..£4,500 0 0
Carried to reserve fund .. 5,000 0 0
9,500 0 0
Balance carried down £4,137 15 10
Profits for the half-year after deducting’
interest accrued on deposits and
rebate on bills current, less reserves
for bad and doubtful d bts .. .. 12,246 15 7
£16,384 11 5
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance.. .. ..£40,000 0 0
£40,000 0 0
By Balance at 31st March, 1905 .. ..435,000 0 0
Transfer from profit and loss account .. 5,000 0 0
£40,000 0 0
IF IT IS A...
GENUINE
BROWNIE
IT IS A GENUINE KOPAK
4f* kf v
$ s
And gives perfect results, as do all other
Kodaks by virtue of their simplicity.
PRICES :
No. 1 Brownie
PICTURES 2} X 2i
No. 2 Brownie
PICTURES 2\ x3i JOS.
No, 2 Folding
Brownie
PICTURES 2i x3i 24s
No. 3 Folding
\.\
\ \
ħ
78 Queen SI, Brisbane;
37 Bundle St. Adelaide.
h
ĥ
Brownie
SIMILAR TO No. 2 F. 8., but TAKES THE
FAVORITE 4-PLATE SIZE
455.
From the SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for KODAK
LIMITED, “ PREMO ” CAMERAS, and all KODAK
and “ AUSTRAL ” Specialities, DEALERS’ SUPPLIES, &c.
Baker & RoOSe
Propy.
Ltd.
375 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
“The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne
80 Queen Street, Brisbane
37 Bundle Street, Adelaide


Tb« Very Best
CHAMPAGNE.
CHARLES
NEIDSIECK
Ask for it Always.
3tcwt
(Dress
Shields
THE day has long past when DRESS SHIELDS were considered a
, r™.c,! h ® hlgher and more refined id eals associated with Dress
aHI T ELDS as a necessit y- If you want DRESS
‘ fhat are a Luxury as well as a Necessity you will ask for
KLEINERT’S.
HIGH- CLASS COMFOR TS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
QUALITY and AGE.
BRANDY
ħ
Dress fv\Bßies
trademark
Are Stocked by the
.jt Leading Drapers.
THE VARNISHED BOARD
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
_ Sydney, October 24, 1905.
My Dear Arini,—
Sydney society feels frost-bitten at the idea of
ri™ S K - OVe , ly S T l6 f of entertainments for the
Jerseys bemgknoehed on the head by the death of
Lady J.s father Lord Leigh was over 80-
JL J aS rp a K fa !I r thln f? for him to die, any-
how. The Mayoral Taylors had arranged,
9W> n ( ? St . other fl .' lsks > a reception for them, and a
f °A§ n tS W - 6re lnv , lted - The Jerseys will have
the Melbii suite at the Australia Hotel. Talking
of the Australia hostelry—the jewel robbery from
there has raised a ripple. Mr. Lazarus is a Ben-
1S fe de “ fcall - da rk, foreign-looking
andslender-is a Maorilander. They are enduring
their loss with great calmness. H
. The return fare for the Indian trip (and renew-
ing your acquaintance with the Prince and Prin-
cess of Wales) is only £4O. Why, if it were
. e new clothes required, you’d save
a 7 th f e *r j P- on e thing you must be particular
about when you get to Buddh land—and that is to
hustle for your laundry if it does not come back to
you in reasonable time. Haroun al Raschid will
hire out your clothes to his country-people, and to
yours, for a week or a month at a time, and, if you
corner him, he’ll tell you such lotus lies about his
press of work that you’ll give him extra rupees to
hurry up It is reported that a tour of appalling
extent is being industriously arranged by the local
authorities in India for the Wales pair. Every
hour is being provided for. The menu for each
meal on every day during the three months’tour
is being carefully considered. Not a detail, from
the texture of the sheets to the size of the servi-
ettes, is to be forgotten. In fact, things dovetail
so exactly on paper, and leave so little margin for
the unforeseen, that if an elephant breathes too
nard on an aide-de-camp and blows him down it
may disarrange things for two months.
It has come as a great shock to a prospective
man-o -war bridegroom to learn that his mother
has married her younger son’s tutor. So when
the local girl bride (that is to be presently) gets to
England, she can compare bridal trousseaux with
her mother-in-law, and help the latter to shake
rice out of her gomg-away gown.
What would not the Australiennes give for a
visit from that section of the British fleet known
as the Second Cruiser Squadron ! “It is composed
ot six of the fastest and smartest ships” and
this is a gratuitous statement—officered by men to
whom the same adjectives might be applied.
1 nnce Louis of Battenberg commands it, and it
has a sub-title, “ The Dancing Squadron.” When
its Admiral gives a ball on his flagship, a special
dancing floor is put down over the deck. Farm
Oove aches for that squadron.
One of the most gold-leaved girls in Sydney,
Miss I. Lyons, goes hence presently to marry a
man who was on the Australian station for a few
months. She is a clipper-built style of girl, and
knows how to spread her hat just the right way.
Her late father, Captain Lyons, was a Balmain
identity of note. A farewell Tea of great august-
ness was given her at the Australia last week.
Published list of lappers includes names of Miss
Eadith Walker, Mrs. Geoff. Fairfax, a Stephen or
so, and various Dangars, all guarantees that the
bnde-elect doesn t belong to the hoi polloi- as
Irof. lucker or Dan O’Connor would call them
when he didn t like to say “herd ” or “rabble.”
Miss Muriel Marks who, after her return from
India, marnes Dr. Fred Watson, is, like her
cousin Miss Irene Marks, a finely-haired damsel.
It is yellow hair, and there is a wealth of it Also
she possesses a good figure. An old identity who
is always talking old times at me, says that the
lady s maternal forbears, the Moffitts, well-known
booksellers of early days, “were among the
decentest people here.” Mrs. John and Mrs
James Marks and Mrs. Thorne were Moffitt girls.
Had a look at Douglas Gerrard, the importation
for male lead, in “Merely Mary Ann,” at a re-
hearsal last week. Aslender, dark-faced youngman
of medium height, who wears his frock-coat with a
difference, and has the Piccadilly droop in all its
virulence. To possess this droop to a nicety you
bend fro ™ tko waist, and your elbows and
shoulders must be so adjusted as to aid the effect
°L-f e § anfc dejection. This first-class but crushed
attitude must not be confounded with thestraight-
front corset declination. That is a totally different
o 'liquity. Most of the local she Somebodies who
have travelled, and who have souls that loathe the
memory of the shops and gardens in which their
joint and several poor dear pa made the money
count as part of their travel-polish the correct
Piccadilly droop. Two sisters—N.S. Walers, not
long back from foreign parts—wear it, but with a
painful self-consciousness as if the kink had also
entered into their mental outfit. Don’t think it’s
worth your while to acquire the Droop at this
day, date and generation, because manv of the
Pointer maidservants and nearly all the little
stitching apprentices have assumed it, that it is
doomed to extinction as a fashion.
Douglas Gerrard has been taken up by the belle
whose name was so bracketed with Cuyler
Hastings, and her set, and is, generally speaking
being stroked down by society.
I would like to start a Society for the Prevention
r Lobsters. On my morning sprint
from the Quay I pass a fish shop at the door of
winch is always a basket of live lobsters, their very
advanced eyes staring wildly, their claws clawing
the air feebly. Once I asked a Tito Melema be
hind a prawn counter how he killed the lobsters.
His reply was too ready—“ Put them in cold water
and they drowns.” It was a fish story. They are
by some fishmongers at any rate, slowly boiled into
the tomb. No wonder so many deaths are
due to eating lobster. Scores of charming young
actresses and members of the corps de ballet eat
a lobster mayonnaise before retiring, and that
night their soul is demanded of them. To be
*u°° j d a lobster is a fearsome thing. But if
the dramatic profession and clubmen will eat
lobster and die, some more humane method of
killing the poor shell-fish ought to be adopted.
Of course hardly any food—of the kind that
used to be alive —will stand very close investi-
gation. Remember the Angel in Wells’ “Won-
dU U ~ Slt ”• who loat his appetite altogether
when the train of facts leading up to roast lamb
was unrolled to him? There are many who
sympathise with that feeling. I know several
suburban homes where the home-fed poultry can’t
be 1,7, or ie table because “the children
wouldn t eat anything they’d seen alive.” Most
people, however, practise a happy hypocrisy in
such matters. They know that cutlets don’t grow
on currant bushes, but shut their minds to the
thought of the slaughter-house. But a stand
should be made against unnecessary cruelty in
food preparation. And - lobsters boiled slowly to
death (I believe they scream quite humanly as
things begin to get warm for them) are beyond
the pale.
By the way, a Maoriland school-master recently
got a note from the mother of one of his pupils
requesting him “not to teach Johnny any more
about his inside because it made him sick.” De-
scriptions of blood or “innards” affect the vivid
imagination of a child, as teachers of physiology
know well, and lessons on the intestines are often
interluded by faints or nausea of the pupils. An
Australian doctor, who studied in Edinburgh, tells
how, at the Royal Infirmary there, it was no un-
common sight to see three or four students “ coming
to on the stone floor outside the lecture theatre,
lo go off at a tangent: It would be difficult to get
any woman to look at a prize fight, yet one of the
most attractive pictures to women in the series
shown during a recent flickergraph season was a
prize fight. It looked horribly realistic, yet
women used to go just to see that “turn,” and
then they would leave, shuddering, “because
there wouldn’t be any more fights.” Makes one
think of one of Macaulay’s lays—that in which
two severed heads, stuck on spears, are carried
through the applauding streets, “and maids that
shrieked to see the heads, yet shrieking pressed
more nigh.”
. -Artist Charles Nuttall did not have any struggle-
time in America. The Hammond Illustrating
Co. took him up at once. Tenor Roberts told
JNuttali he was doing well, singing in grand opera.
Florence Young, after eight months holiday, and
not very good health, is on the way back to Aus- '
tralia.
Miss Nora Kerin’s matrimonial choice is a Mr.
Cyril Michael. Miss Kerin is one of the five
famous ccmsins, of whom the other four are Miss
Julia Neilson, Miss Hilda Jacobson, Miss Hilda
Hanbury, and Miss Lily Hanbury. Han bury is
an adopted name. The girls are Jacobsons. Mr.
Goodman, manager at Her Majesty’s, was at
school with Pa Jacobson.
Of a travelling She various hostels, or rather
their guests, speak much and loudly. The tourist
announced that she sang. She said it with the air
of one who has had Great Advantages. Into the
hostel drawing-room one night another woman
brought a Kosciusko sized pile of music and begged
the tourist to choose and sing. There was none of
her songs in all that 1J yards of melody. But
so that the guests should not go dis-
appointed to bed the visitor said “I shall sing
you a Cherokee love-song.” For ten minutes she
howled like a dingo, occasionally turning round to
translate a Cherokee phrase at the listeners. When
the dirge ceased the dirger said, “ I am so sorry I
can t sing you ‘Entreat Me Not To Leave Thee,’
but on the voyage out someone stole my music.”
rive men who had been listening arose as one
and went into the bar and drank the thief’s
health.
Mr. Justice G. B. Simpson announces the com-
plete restoration of his health and his near return
to Australia. ‘
The “ Thunderbolt ” poster, “ Bail-up,” show-
ing the coach stopped by bushrangers, has caused
Douglas Fry, the animal painter, now visiting
Australia, to speak the admiring word. Many of
them, in fact. Mr. Fry has gone to Melbourne,
and wdi paint the winners of the Caulfield and
Melbourne Cups. Others going towards the great
annual drinking utensil are Mrs. Burdekin and
her daughter, also Mr. Owen Cox and Miss
Bonsor, and heiress Walker, and a string of
friends. The steamship Potters will quit Maori-
land salmon fishing in time for the Great Neigh.
Major Robert Stephen, hussar-son of Septimus
Stephen, is returning to Australia for a sojourn.
He has been an absentee more or less for 18 years.
But he still held hands across the sea, and some
five years ago married Miss Mollie Osborne. His
brother Colin s horse, Elvo, had, it may be men-
turned a strong following of Pointers for the
Caulfield Cup. But the animal was one of those
that commanded a splendid view of the other
steed s tail.
Mr El well, an American sailor, and his bride,
a Melbourne girl, are having a honeymoon. Some
months ago they left Australia for America in the
Koanake, of which Mr. Elwell was first officer.
I fie Roanake, which prided itself on being the
largest wooden ship afloat, was burnt to the
waters edge at Noumea, and the Elwells, with
the rest of the company, escaped on board
the Susquehanna, an American barque lving
handy, and also homeward bound. But two days
from port the Susquehanna “opened out” (or
broke its back, or something) and sank. The
boats couldn’t beat back against the trade winds
and for five days the Elwells pursued their honey-
moon on the Pacific with little to eat, and not
much more to drink, till they hauled the remnants
of their trousseau ashore at the Solomons. And
when last I heard of them they were still following
up. that indefatigable honeymoon there or there l
abouts.
A pleasant enemy writes from Adelaide :
: Little Mr. Way, with his Chief Justicess, walked up to
the reserve for distinguished guests at the opening of the
Government House fete, and, to his surprise, lie was
£w ded » off- ~W hat name?” demanded the Cerberus
' Wa L was the reply. “ You can’t go in here ; your
naane is not on my list,” responded the official. Expostu-
lation was useless, and the indignant magnate had to go
a round-about journey to get into the enclosure from the
other side. The name on the list was “ His Honor the
JuSt A lC f'' ’ n V - Way has besn that for 29 years,’ and
B: ' Gover . nor 15 times ; a 'so he has been a
for six years, Lieutenant-Governor for 15 years, a
member of the leftal profession for 44 years, and a 0.0. for
31 years ; and he is an ex-Attorney-General, a Privy Coun-
cillor, about six different kinds of “Hon.”, a Bible
Christian, and the step-father of Hiss Shylie Blue. And
after being- all these things in little Adelaide for all these
years, somebody managed to rake up a gatekeeper who
had never heard the name of Way.
Wellington girls are making much of boyish-
looking Dr. Bell, Maoriland’s newly imported
Director of the Geological Survey. Bell is a clever
young American who has dropped into a well-paid
billet. Only 28 or so, he has seen and done a good
deal—graduated as Doctor of Science, lectured on
geology at Harvard University, explored in the
great lone land of Northernmost Canada, shot
grizzlies, Esquimaux and other strange animals,
even confesses to having written a novel—an
American novel at that. He is an enthusiastic
youth, and it was perhaps to cool his ardor that
Premier Seddon sent him down for the winter to
the Westland bush, gold-hunting. The doctor is
strong on outdoor sports, and talks of importing
his Canadian snow-shoes to “ski” over the
Southern Alps, and his birch-bark canoe to shoot
the Wanganui rapids. His sister arrives from
America shortly. Other men’s sisters will
certainly think her a superfluous quantity.
The Australian voice abroad isn’t always as that
of one crying in the wilderness. Artist Arthur
Colhngridge, whilst going through the “innards”
of the 1 yramids lately, got awfully greased by the
sputtering candles used by the guides. He wrote
to the Department of Antiquities in Egypt before
leaving that angular land and pointed out this seri-
ous drawback to the exploration of old Pharaoh-
dom, and the other day got a courteous reply saying
that the authorities, moved thereto by Mr. C’s.
letter, were going to light the passages with
electricity.
Are there any relics of Nelson left in any other
part of the world ? So many have turned up in
centenary week one is reminded
of Mark Twain on “ Bits of the True Cross.” Old
ladies and gentlemen nearing 90 have “ distinct re-
collections ” of being chucked under their infantile
chins by Nelson and noticing that he was minus a
limb and an eye. At the great flag-flap at the
-Lown Hall on Saturday night, a great-grandson
of Admiral Pasco—who, as a flag lieutenant,
hoisted the famous signal on the Victory a hundred
years ago—hauled up a like signal across the plat-
form. Kiddy was introduced by Admiral Fan-
shawe, and as the Telegraph remarks, with
patriotic tears rolling down its nose: “It was a
moving sight—the Admiral, the child, and the
expectant audience.” Mrs. Hugh Dixson, the
principal bunting presenter, was absent. The
lady has just undergone an operation for appendi-
citis. Anybody would be absent under such
conditions.
A herd of University under-grads, had the
gallery of the Palace on last night of “ The J.P.,”
and made a witless display. They lowered
“high” crayfish on to the stage and the like,
i-hey determined that the co. should remember
them by their bad odor. A local merchant, in the
stalls with the wife, was struck on the head by a
bag of rice. It burst, and he has angry opinions
on the wearing of rice next the skin.
The Ramaciotti automobile is a stylish thing in
toot machines. Yellow wheels and a dark body—
I have seen grasshoppers so colored. There is
also a Ramaciotti motor launch lying on the face
of our harbor waters.
* Cable announces that “Earl Cowley will be
married to Lady Cradoek-Hartopp, the divorced
wife of Sir Charles Cradock-llartopp, at Colombo.”
I his is the lady who, for the three .weeks that her
suit lasted, wore a different and ravishing costume
every day. And the charm of her toilettes must
have gladdened the jury. Now, a jury-influencing
gown, unlike .Jonah s gourd, does not grow in a
night. Think of the prescience of the lady ! She
must have had at least 15 gowns built for the trial.
How did she know that the revelations and the
arguments and the points were going to last out
that long ?
A high-jinks bachelor in Sydney keeps a pair of
beautifully modelled legs to be used as “pin-
cushions.” They are nearly life size. The bend
of the knee, with three silk frills above and an en-
Uancmg garter, and the pretty foot are all there.
Other day, whilst dispensing afternoon tea to a
small crowd, talk turned on Phil May, and the
high-jmker took the group into his bedroom to
show it some Mays. A unit of the party was a
young Englishman studying for the Church (some
church). At sight of the Legs he fell back a
pace and turned tomato-faced. The high-jinker
looked at him tiredly and quoted, “‘Man'is the
only animal who blushes—or who has need to.’”
David Jones and Co. are turning out some
special gowns for the Cup. Lace and chiffon and
silken fabrics woven and wrought into cunning
works of art that might be hung in the National
Gallery. Might be —onlv they’d want a special
guardian against women until change of fashion
put em out of date.
. The Frank Gardners will be in JMelbourne
m time for the Glorious Fourth, and if Madame
does not take the pineapple for face and style—
well, my opinion of Melbourne art sense will
drop over a great precipice. He—F.G.—is
said to be in a fair way to re-assert himself as a
mining magnate in N.S.W. Also various local
Men of Standing have balanced up to him saying,
‘Start ye an automobile factory in’ this fair
mtyV’ The Gardner-Serpollet auto works
in 1 aris cover five acres. Their part owner
thinks N.S.W. is on the eve of a huge mining
revival, and he is backing his thoughts by ex-
tensive lease-buying in the Cobar and Orange
districts.
A capital portrait of Mayor Allen Taylor has
been achieved by Falk, and will be presented to
the original by his constituents and friends to-
morrow night at the Town Hall.
A little golden-haired darling of five or six
caused many beads to turn on Sydney Block on
a recent Saturday morning. She was escorting
her mother, a well-dressed, sensible-looking
matron, and wore a white bonnet, red cloak, and
no stockings or shoes. It was a bitter morning,
and her legs looked red and chill, but missie pat-
tered along as if thoroughly happy. Boots are
mostly a bother Jx> children, anyhow.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 23, 1905.
My Dear Yarrie,—
An air of complimentary bereavement sobered
the G.G. contingent at the Caulfield Cup. Her
Ex. trailed a purple velvet coat,, which she wore
all day over the lawn, while Governor Bedford’s
spouse took her subdued strut in temperate mauve
chiffons. The polished black head-piece of the
G.G. and staff completed the mournful look of
things. But outside that pen the whole racing
tribe rioted in gay apparel. Toorakites swarmed
in simple attire, leaving the splash to the popula-
tion of beer and books, always strong at the big
meeting. Miss Ruby Madden, back from the
Osbornes’ cattle-run, showed up meekly in a
French-blue garb and sat-upon hat. The younger
Miss Lesly was scarcely better decked in rusty
green. A whole flock of forward Toorak chickens
showed the same indifference to a chiffon sensation.
So Hebe and the Block charmer had the field to
themselves. Miss Wilson scored another point
for Geelong in a silk-pink glace and a hat that
was a cross between a Romney and a coolie’s straw.
Mrs. Everard Browne reared a vermilion toque fly-
ing a paradise plume from her defiant top-piece,
but the rest of her didn’t match the gaudy note.
Mrs. J. Alston Wallace sported the wealthiest
white frock of the Terrace swarm. Mrs. Dyce
Murphy and Mrs. Edward Miller seemed much
more important than their garb. They both
looked scornfully superior. Mrs. Wesley Hall had
a resurrection in black and repentance purple.
Dame Talbot’s renewal of mourning has damped
the spirits of many official and semi-official Gup
hosts. The death of a brother is the cause. All
engagements except those marked “ charity ” are
wiped off the slate, and the grey dame wears the
habiliments of woe once more. She had only
evolved a few colors from a wardrobe darkened by
a similar family bereavement on her husband’s side
some time ago, and had ordered some gay apparel
when the second piece of bad news arrived.
However, their Exes, have decided not to cancel
the one large Stonington spree of the year—the
lawn party—for which pasteboards are promis-
cuous, and many of the guests come from very
outer circles.
The President Wrixons mourn the Talbot
mourning. The State Exes were to be their
piloe dc resistance, but the black-bordered sta-
tionery has intervened. It isn’t possible to
secure the Commonwealth Vice-Regals, and now
Mr. Bent will have to star before the frilly
multitude on the 2nd. The horror of it !
The A.D.C .-in-waiting once more “ is desired by
their Exes.,” &c., to invite Mr. and Mrs. Blank to
the strawberry scramble that ushers in the clothes-
horse season. The Y.R. Lawn Trail of the 31st
will see the freshest of the chiffons, as it precedes
the races this year of nag.
After a great deal of scheming and plea, the
Alexandra Club has roped in Dame Northeote for
its top-notch patroness. The club that wants its
beer license has been after this blank honor for a
long time, but her smilesome Ex. kept the
Tabithas waiting. On Thursday there’s to be a
grand crush at the Pianola Hall when the
patroness will beam during the dreary reading of
the annual report. It is pleaded in extenuation
that this is the first report ever submitted by the
frilly management. There are 550 members in the
club, and of these there are 250 not wanted. The
cream, such as it is, runs to 300 in this State.
The difficulties the Society dame experiences
in bobbing to the greater Exes, amused the
Stand crowd on Saturday. One of the cream was
banged brutally forward, and nearly extended her
bob to a prostration, because she was run into by a
backer, helter-skeltering along the terrace to collect
his little bit. Not every dame can preserve her
balance when bumped amidships as she endeavors
to accomplish a demi-semi genuflection.
The race-cloak was the strong .novelty of the
Cup. One forward matron liked hers—a ‘tomato-
toned affair—so well that she adopted it for the
day and strutted so persistently that the Stand
took on _the look of a tomato splash. The silk
variety in many instances looked like theatre
cloaks out on the loose. The linen kind were as
the butcher’s overalls, and the tussores alone
resembled the thing needed.
The latest in startling millinery effects is a set
of ribbon streamers worn aft in the manner of the
undertaker’s crape weepers. The funereal idea
was the better carried out, last Saturday, by one
Caulfield strutter having her streamers in the
purple hue of regret. These hung to the rear of
her festive hat with a solemn suggestion of the
grave behind the gay. Another, flourishing
green rear ribbons like something stolen from a
green parrot’s hinder decoration, merely gave one
the idea of a bird-tail of inordinate length.
The fashion of scattering Val. insertion and
edge over the summer raiment spreads. I saw in
preparation for the Cup a garb which owned four-
teen dozen yards of Yal. Someone in the brewery
line of business is to wear it. There is nothing
like beer to froth into lace. The dress builder is
in despair over other orders to lay on the Val.
thick and profuse. The sewing on of this finest
of lace fripperies is a minute and laborious per-
formance. “The only thing,’’ said the weary-
eyed, nerve-wrecked clothes-architect, 'is to
charge for it.” And charge for; it she does with a
vengeance. Infinite pains must be taken
in stitching leagues and leagues of the Val. all
over the material. Even the roses and wheels
formed of it take countless dozens to produce any
effect. And Mistress Smart pays through the
nose for the trouble.
Mrs. Fred Payne gets “ Maretimo ” ready for the
particular Toorak hop of the carnival. The thing
is to be done vastly well. The usual Cup hostesses
are holding off this year. Even the Cliveden
dowager abates her entertaining zeal, and limits
her hostly attention to a Cafe Chantant for a sick
fund of some sort.
The T. H. Paynes had a fine turn-out for the
Caulfield whirligig a tandem pair of prize
prancers, which raised the dust along the road


It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating , single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 3(>4a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
—THE CRY=
OF A MARTYR
WRETCHEDNESS and MISERY
CRUEL STOMACH PAINS,
SICK HEADACHES,
DRIVEN OUT BY
MOTHER
SEIGEL'S SYRUP
“Fortwoyears Iwas nothingshort of
a martyr to BILIOUSNESS and IN-
DIGESTION. I suffered terribly
from SICK HEADACHES and
palpitation OF THE HEART.
and could only do my work with
great difficulty After eating I had
SEVERE PAINSin the CHESTand
STOMACH and an INCLINATION
to VOMIT, together with EX-
TREME DEPRESSION of the
spirits and LANGUOR, which ren-
dered me unfit for anything. I never
knew what it was to be other than
WRETCHED and MISERABLE. I
spent a lot of money in buying and
using a great many medicines and
mixtures but got no relief, until
I was induced to get a bottle of
Mother Seigel’s Syrup. At once
my health began to improve, and a
few bottles relieved me of all the
miseries I have described and made
a complete cure. I still remain in
perfect health.”
Letter from Mrs. Annie Cremer. Marysville
House . 48, A mold Street. South Yarra ,
Melbourne , Victoria ; Apnl 12 , 7905.
TAKEN DAILY
AFTER MEALS, IN WATER
h
A
Panacea
for all
Stomach Troubles
DrSheldon’s
DIGESTIVE TABULES
Digest what uou eat ”
The Only Cure
for
Indigestions
Dyspepsia.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSO L
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING,-
THUNDERBOLT,
Written by Ambrcse Pratt and A. S. Joseph,
Presented by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, Headed by the
Taiented Australian Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Elvy.’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
Amusements.
Q RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGIIT and EVERY EVENING,
ALFRED D AMPIER
as CAPTAIN STARLIGHT
in
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
H E ? MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
„ two NIGHTS of
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S DRAMATIC COMPANY in
CAMILLE.
Miss TITTELL BRUNE ... as CAMILLE.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 28, for the First Time
in Australasia, MERELY MARY ANN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. KST" PRICES AS USUAL.
TIVOLI T HEATRE, S Y D NE Y
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Splendid Success of CRIMMONS and GORE.
Great Success of HILL and WHITAKER, Musicians
Vocalists, Banjo Soloists, Banjo and Harp Duettists. ’
Continued Success of LES BRUNIN, Billiardistes Modernes.
Brilliant & Artistic Success of DIAMOND & BEATRICE.
PAYEN, L’Enigmatique Pierrot Gynmaste.
Everybody’s Favorite Comedian, MR. TOM DAWSON
Mr. WALTER KEEN. KELLY and AONES.
MAUD FANINC. FRIEDA NIEMANN. FANNY POWERS.
O PE , R A . H ° u SE > M ELBOUIR IM E.
w Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Another Great Change of Programme by
LE ROY, TALMA, BOSEO, World’s Monarchs of Magic,
Greatest Illusionists on Earth.
RYDER SLONE, Vocal Character Comedian.
JACKSON FAMILY, Leading Musicians.
BOY CLEN, Juvenile Raconteur.
IRVING SALES and LES WARTON.
Plan at Allan’s. KsT PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
(VIEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of A SAILOR’S KNOT.
SAT. NEXT, OCT. 28, BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Powerfully Constructed Australian Drama,
THE BETTING BOOK.
B3T PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
ORINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
•T Proprietor .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Lessees .. .. “ The Players.”
COMMENCING, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28,
“THE PLAYERS
in the Famous Gaiety Success,
I IST “I" O W 3XT.
Special Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand
PRICES AS USUAL.
g_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
8 * Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE ORCHID.
&3T Special Numbers. Additional Novelties.
Plan at Allan’s. MATINEE, WEDNESDAYS.
1"OWN HALL, MELB OUR N E.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THIS AFTERNOON, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26,
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, OCT. 28,
THE KNIGHT-JEFFRIES COMEDY CO. in
the Great Morality Play,
EVERY IVE _<£V TNT.
MR. JULIUS KNIGHT as EVERYMAN.
THEN/EUM HALL, MELBOU RN E.
. Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8. EVERY AFTERNOON at 2.30.
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Newly. Constructed
810-TABLEAU
AND
ALL-STAR PICTURE SHOW.
Box Plan Allan's, Menzies’ & Grand. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
“ FRI3VCBS COURT,”
MELBOURNE.
General Manager A. L. BAIRD.
DCF- ADMISSION 6d ; CHILDREN 3d.
LATEST SENSATION ! ! I
“LEAPING THE CHASM.”
DASTRO, THE DARING (America’s Most Famous Cyclist),
Leaps through 40ft. space (enveloped in flames), after
a lightning speed descent down a 60ft. incline on a
narrow track.
10 p.m. For a Few Nights Only. 10 p.m.
FITZGERALD’S CIKCUS BUILDING,
MELBOURNE.
ENORMOUS AND GENUINE SUCCESS of
ERONI BROTHERS' GIGANTIC CIRCUS
AND
MENAGERIE.
Absolutely the Most Legitimately Successful Circus Ever
Seen Here.
Horses and Ponies Trained to the Pink of Perfection.
Animals that do Everything- but Speak.
Trapezists, Bar Performers, Clowns, Dummies, Chair
Balancers, Contortionists, Bareback & Jockev Riders, &c.
EVERYTHING OF THE VERY BEST.
THE KING OF HORSE-EDUCATORS —Mr. CHAS. ERGNI.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS, AND ALL HOLIDAYS.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s, & One Shilling. Box Plan at Glen’s.
FITZGERALD’S CIRCUS BUILDING.
ĥ
8 HUGE SHOWS and . . .
Kilpatrick’s Deatli=Trap Loop
MELBOURNE OPENING A SPONTANEOUS TRIUMPH.
THE VAST CITY OF TENTS,
ALEXANDRA AVENUE.
“ A scene of gorgeous splendor.”
LOOP,
HIPPODROME,
ZOO,
WILD WEST.
Greatest
Shows
o\
Earth.
CIRCLE,
BEASTS’ PARADE,
MUSEUM,
BUS] I MANS HIP.
Huge Elephant Herd.
Largest Travelling Zoo in the World?
PT* 8 Shows for On? Ticket—4s., 35., 25., and Is.
VICTORIA. RACIOrG OLVB.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY - November 4. CUP DAY - November 7
OAKS DAY - November 9, STEEPLECHASE DAY - November 11
LARGE ENTRIES. H. BYRON MOORE,
ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS. Secretary.
right valiantly. The weightiest carrier-van kind
of motors snorted aggressively past the gay
tandem, but not even the garishly decorated
cars of the Alston Wallaces or the Fairbairns
could beat the spanking turn-out.
Two Vic. politicians came back from a grand
gad by the China —Agar Wynne and William
M‘Culloch. The former, who successfully mingles
horse interests with politics, has been seeing how
things are done at Ascot, and shaking the fat paw
of Wriggler Taverner with great cordiality.
Landlord M.L.C. M'Culloch has mostly dawdled
with youthful relatives. He’s a frisky veteran, is
William.
The Australian Club is forward with paste-
boards for a dance on November 10. This club
gets very extravagant about its annual revel, and
the appointments are always perfect, even to a
wonderful arrangement of light and shade for the
sitters-out and the couples who climb to the tower
for a breath of fresh air.
The suburban Worships are still dispensing the
reception biscuit. Down at South Melbourne the
paw of greeting is extended to the local gasfitter
and the paperhanger of ambitious notions this
Wednesday. The populace generally is invited to
roll up and nibble.
The birthday, and the anniversary of the first
tooth, and the fiftieth year of wedlock celebra-
tion seem to tempt the Fates. Gyles Turner
had scarcely finished receiving his golden wedlock
congratulations when he fell ill. And he hasn’t
been very well since. The same thing happened
with old Dr. Neild. The wise thing is not to
rejoice too loudly over any good fortune.
The surprising engagement of the day is that of
a musical charmer —daughter of a prominent
manageress and Conservatorium engineer—to a
champion golfer. The man of the record scores is
being put to the test of appallingly long concerts,
and his sporting phiz is a study thereat. But the
girl is a very young and fresh dazzler, and her
near profile, even through an age-long classical
strum, must prove a comfort. A squatter friend
of mine who put in a recent evening at a particu-
larly profound .recital, gave out afterwards that
Beethoven’s Pastoral Sonata reminded him of
sheep (some of them lame) running down a moun-
tain. Perhaps the engaged golfer mentally com-
pares a Chopin Berceuse to a series of fast-driven
balls splitting the wind of the links.
A titled visitor has been affectionately interested
in a petite charmer who once frisked it with a
vaudeville troupe. Another instance of the
eligible jolinnie turning from the blandishments
of the Toorak flutterer to the joyful regard of a
gay footlighter.
Mrs. James Traill hasn’t tripped back to the Cold
Country and her languid spouse yet. It will be
remembered how the captain languished in the
long-ago role of A.D.C. For the time the dame
loiters at Stony Park, and puts in a lengthy
appearance (mostly in clingsome black) at any
function worth while.
Mrs. George Chirnside issued forth from a
lengthy retirement to break bread with the
Talbottles at one of their recent small and early
dinner parties. Since the swan-note of last
summer Mrs. George has refrained from joining
in any fashionable frisk, much to the disappoint-
ment of other friskers.
The sudden shining forth of Miss Olive Godwin
among “ The Orchid ” stars took a thronging race-
house on Caulfield Cup night by storm. As a
successor to Florence Young, the new tripper had
her responsibilities, but she carried them out
well—mainly owing to a soaring top-note, and as
graceful dress blandishments as Palotta’s of old.
One song, a duet with baritone Jackson, and one
dress, a golden symphony, with a crown-piece in
nasturtium tones, won the crowd completely, and
other sins of omission or commission (due to in-
experience) were forgiven her. She’s a fetching
young thing, and her dresses are a delight.
Mrs. DyceMurphy, a superior dame with the lofty
manner, is lodged up at the Grand with her family.
The dame, round whom so much romance has been
woven from time to time, walks to the fore with
majestic mien. Her entrance into the theatre —a
lace mantilla fluttering from the top-mast—is more
magnificent than any stage-effect. A grown
daughter carries all her ma’s airs and graces multi-
plied by two.
A dame of interesting theatrical antecedents
and tragic domestic experience has re-married,
and joined the ranks of grease. Perhaps the re-
marrying came after the grease-dabbing. How-
ever, both occurred.
The stormy authoress of “ Arcadian Adelaide,”
after a marked season of gaiety at Menzies, has
sailed for ’Frisco. Hubby too. The Fisher pair
left their Melbourne pals many festive memories
and an aching head.
A few of the Federal dames have a yearning to
get some pleasure and profit out of the gardens
surrounding the twin houses of Babel. Members’
wives have a growing sense of their importance to
the Commonwealth. Dame Forrest thought of
organising lawn sprees of some kind, but nothing
came of the intention. Dame Fysh nodded her
bonnet many times in approval of such garden
flutterings, but nothing came of that either.
However, Mrs. I. Isaacs took the Bananaland
dame—Mrs. Groom—ipto council, and the pair
determined on a croquet party. Last Mon-
day she shed her air of dreamy languor to
make this a success. The guests represented
the cream and skimmed milk of society
—Federal and otherwise. There is a new
arrangement holding with regard to these Parlia-
mentary lawns. Though locked while the House
is up, members may secure the key from the
janitor and trot their she-chums into the green
Eden—a great boon to philandering members, who
demand that key most of the adjournment period
and have a garden party pretty well to themselves
and the girl.
Miss Emily Dyason recital-ed on a grand piano
to the most frocky audience that has put in an
evening at Glen’s this year. The Dowager, the
Mayoress, and a few others of the very glassy were
there in considerable splendor. The Dowager
has a passion for the cane seat of the mighty and
the carpet patch of reserve. The strumrner of
this recital was most stylish. She interpreted
Beethoven and Chopin in ivory glace with the
silver glistenings that proclaim the ex-debutante.
Expense is nothing to the Dyasons, who own
leagues of territory and mining plant in Bendigo.
A whole clan of much wool-wealth is rejoicing
over the arrival of a son and heir to a couple who,
after 12 years of domesticity, had counted cribs out
of their province. A dozen aunts, a grand-dame
or two, and a host of the more remote kith and kin
are crowing over the arrival of the belated infant
The veteran widow of old-time Speaker Francis
Murphy had a birthday frolic the other day, when
she flourished a double eight on the scoring-board.
She is a vigorous party, with green memories of
the late Francis and his record fourteen years of
Speakership, a period so long agone that many
rather old people are surprised to hear of there
ever having been a Speaker named Murphy.
The cunning notion of publishing picture books
to illustrate Summer fashions has earned for
Buckley and Nunn more serious attention than
the average drapery publication gets. To see a
girl in a cheap cambric frock cut so carefully as to
make her look a Greek goddess is a seductive sort
of ad. To view a picture-girl looking like a
freshly-plucked peach in a frilly muslin that costs
little more than the dirt-cheap linen is a further
decoy. Buckley and Nunn are evidently studying
the sex closely to hit right on its fancy as in the
present picture-book case.
A fresh character comes over the face of needle-
work. Small effects in infinitesimal thread are no
more, save in point-lace designs. Now broader
patterns prevail. - Sumptuous roses, of every hue
but those of Dame Nature, 101 l with Turkish
sumptuousness on bold backgrounds of orange,
purple, or strident blue. Other bold designs are
Oriental. Only a Cleopatra of Old Nile could
fitly rest her coppery head on a bronze-toned
cushion with tiger lilies flaunting wicked green
faces.
The long-postponed call to the Bench of our
learned brother Box must make that elderly
bachelor grin to himself. His single state was
mentioned as an obstacle to promotion at the last
shuffling of the judiciary cards. Still he re-
mained severely single, and kept to his club
quarters closer than ever. Now, still a bachelor,
he takes his place among the Solomons.
The She Writers’ Club will shortly utter its
swan-note if many more of its pillars remove
themselves to London. Already three have been
transferred, and now Miss McGowan, the cheeriest
and gladdest scribe in this State, talks of a trip ;
but hers will be a flying one limited to six months.
One of the best diplomaed girl-grads, of the
University, with the medical degree lately added
to her list, goes off in November to the distant
missionary quarters of India to instruct the heathen
in the ways of Christian Endeavor, as well as to
finger the heathen pulse. Dr. EfAe Stillwell, the
young medico in question, would have done better
on her native heath curing local appendicitis. All
the clever Stillwells take their studious and reli-
gious ways from their printer dad. But to make
Zenana mission work the object of her talents is
a sort of pathetic anti-climax to a long, laborious
course at the University. Considering, too, that
the local heathen, physically and spiritually, is so
much in need of skilled attention, Dr. Effie might
have fixed her brass-plate nearer home.
Mrs. Arthur Tuckett’s book on “The Garden ”
has made her an object of regard and curiosity for
a while. The stern-featured society dame gardens
like a professional, and learnt her trade at the
Burnley Horticultural College where an interesting
instructor (C. Luffman) talks flowers, grubs and
soil to a number of girls. Mrs. Tuckett glories in
the champion garden of the State. Her book is
the result of a practical year’s round of the garden.
Society hails the dame now as an authoress of
fame.
Frantic efforts are being made to realise a
decent effect by ' Henley-on-the-Drain this jear.
Several Toorak householders have consented to
disguise the boot-box or dog-kennel that serves
for a house-boat in a fairly extravagant way.
The clubs have followed suit in promising. Even
the Alexandra is to drop into line with the
male bodies. A special pen to occupy the
grassiest bank site of the drain is to be fitted up
for the Federal Exes. Bands by noon and
crackers by night are to help make the Henley
attempt go. Some haw-haw johnnies are going to
see, bai Jove, that the thing is done decently this
time. It’s quite time it was.
Failing the Vice-regal dames, committees lassoo
in the next fittest functionary for the brick-bless-
ing and the church-bazaar. The dowager of East
Melbourne is most frequently besought for the
job. Sometimes it is the Waxcellency dame.
Mrs. Alf. Deakin is requisitioned when the affair
has scholastic or churchy objects. Recently com-
mittees have been employing Dame Fysh, the
fussy little Tasmanienne.
The fashion-plates of the hour call for the infla-
tion or stiffening of meagre parts of the figure.
The high-puffed sU-ves that make the wearer look
compressed by invisible side-planks have to be
buckramed out, and the full skirt in most cases
flows over a roller of more buckram. Regular little
pillars of wadding and kapok are used by the
angular she to gain a little of the soft curving
effect pictured about the hip and back portion of
the figure in the Paquin plates. The discomfort
of such hot packs is borne with the stoic smile
that distinguishes the sex when something has to
be suffered in the cause of appearing to be beauti-
ful.
Yours,
TRYPHENA.
Valaze—A Scientific, Medicinal Skin Food!
Valaze comes to you in the form of a dainty preparation
t6 be applied to the skin. It is immediately absorbed—
goes straight into the pores—acts as a tonic and brings
nothing-but beauty and charm to the skin. We can pro-
duce hundreds of testimonials from ladies who have been
benefited by Valaze. MissM. L. Vines, Singleton, N.S. VV.,
writes : —“ I do not think I could find words to express
my pleasure of Valaze as a Skin Food. It has made a vast
difference in my complexion, all the dark blemishes
' entirely disappearing after a few applications. Will you
at your earliest convenience send me another jar?”
Price 3s. 6d. and 6s. ; Posted 6d. extra. Valaze Soap 2s.
(lasts six months); Valaze Herbs (Aromatic) 3s. fid.
packet; Valaze Skin Tonic, most cooling and refreshing-
's. fid. bottle: Valaze Face Powder 2s. box (3 tints) to
dust on the face. Mdlle. Rubinstein, 243 Collins-street,
Melbourne. Mention this paper and receive “Guide to
Beauty ” —Free ! *
“Squidge” re the proposed statue of
Victoria: —
He was only a beer-eater, but he assured me that he
had a vote and this is what he said to me : “ S’pose she
was a good enough sorter old person—as queens go ; but
she never did nuthin’fer me. I don’t want to remember
’er. If I did want to, wot good is a statoo in London
with a ’edge leadin’ up to it. I won’t never get to London.
An’ yet I’ve got to part up my w’ack of 25,000 quids so the
people in London will be stopped from forgettin’all about
’er. Now, what I ses is this : if Deakin wants to make a
triboot of affeckshun in the ’arts of the people’e’ll split
up that there 25,000 quid into tanners. That’ll give ’im a
million tanners. Well, ’e’ll make a few ’undred casts of
the widd.v and he’ll arst every fambily in the Commin-
wealth—I’m a fambily meself, yer know—w’ether it ’ud
rather ’ave a plaster cast or a tanner. An’ I’m takin’ the
tanner every time, an’ so is lots of blokes I knows. W’en
people is dead, I ses let ’em rest.”
A PAYING BIRD.
[For ThI Bulletin].
Let “ statesmen ” whose watchword is, “ Go on the land !
Remember, when immigrant matters they push,
That a tax-paying worker’s a bird in the hand ;
And a factory hand is worth two in the bush.
s.a. Den.
The wife of a Gore Hill (North Sydney)
grocer has just had a tilt with the city coroner.
Early in October the lady’s house and shop caught
fire, and for her damage and loss she claimed
large sums. The co. hesitated a little The
claimant deposed that her losses included
£575 in sovereigns in one of the bedrooms, 10
oil paintings worth £lO each, and a valuable
carpet. The coroner found out that the imperish-
able carpet had been in use for 20 years, and that
the oil paintings were not by Rembrandt, but
were perpetrated by the daughter of the house,
and that while £575 was alleged to have been
upstairs, getting in everyone’s road, the grocer’s
wife had borrowed £350, and was paying per
cent, interest thereon. A thoughtful policeman
mentioned that he reckoned there were ten
separate fires in the partially destroyed premises.
Then the coroner spoke disrespectfully of the 575
sovereigns alleged to have been left in an unlocked
box in an empty house, and the verdict was “ up
against ” some party unknown. But the jury
should certainly have added a postscript to the
effect that it deeply admired the durability of the
carpet.
A file of papers, produced the other day
before the Victorian Police Inquiry Commission,
showed that the chief Commissioner, a superin-
tendent, an inspector, and two sub-inspectors had
written, among them, 40 letters in the course of
a wrangle whether the sub-inspectors should get
6s. 2d. for tram-fares or not. This is the police
force that every year allows 5000 to 6000 crimes to
go undetected. The officers and constables are
too busy putting minute No. 6,723,409 on an
official file to have time to do much else.
“ Land Agent ” writes :—-
Begging- Tub Bulletin’s pardon, a fearful lot of rot is
sometimes talked by people who advocate a stiff land-tax
about the unearned increment. The other day I sold
an allotment in a country town for £2O. Now this block
was bought from the Crown in 1841 for £2l, was sold in
1875 for £l9,.and is now sold for £2O. Here’s a sum :
How much ought that land to have brought to have
repaid the original purchaser his £2O at 4 p.c. ?
Without begging the land agent’s pardon, a fear-
ful lot of rot is written by people who think land
values should accumulate at compound interest, so
that a man can make an income by sitting down
looking at the soil. The owner of the above-
mentioned allotment should have made a lot more
than 4 p.c. per annum by using the land.


Furniture and, Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistio Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ah, my Beloved, fill the Cup. You may
just as well fill it with the purest spirit available,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the liveliest stimulant and
best tonic known for mind or body. If your back
aches it may be your kidneys—Wolfe’s Schnapps
cures kidney dised.seo. *
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, XO/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89 C. FEG St. Martin, Paris, France.
h
GrO TO HBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nag€i?, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS,
a
s:
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(ovp. Hunter St.)
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
John Haynes’ Newsletter now says that
the Tobacco Trust is “ rather beneficial than other-
wise.”
Broken Hill workers are talking of a
general strike as a protest if the Arbitration Act
is strangled. Such an event would be a calamity,
but it s a calamity that the Garruthers Govern-
ment is inviting.
Victorian Premier Bent, as a State brick-
maker, has reached the last stage. This Socialistic
proposal to make the State bricks out of State-
owned clay with State-owned machinery was a
gleam of hope in a sordid mass of Toryism. But
the Tory tongue and the Tory pen were too much
for him. Now, to show how real is his repentance,
he has sold the buildings and plant erected at the
Thornbury brick-works to the very Combine he set
out so boastfully to burst.
Witness T. 0. Mackley, secretary of Melb.
Charity Organisation Society, in evidence before
the Federal Old Age Pensions Committee :
_ In the year 1904-5 we dealt with 1434 cases of distress.
The causes of distress were: Misfortune, 81 '3 per cent. ;
misconduct, 14'6 per cent. ; undeterminable, 4T per cent
In the 12 years, 1893-1905, out of 12,242 cases of distress,
829 cases, or 6'B per cent., were due to old age. We have
been told that 90 per cent, of the poverty of Melbourne
was due to indolence, intemperance, and unthrift. That
is absurd ; it is a libel on the people.
According to a question asked in the
N.S. W. Assembly, Mr. J. Leahy, secretary of the
Machine Shearers’Union—“ the strike-breaking
~ promoted by the pastoralists to break up
the A.W. U. is in default to the Government for
costs of a recent appeal to the High Court, and it
is suggested that the Government isn’t worrying
very hard about collecting. It doesn’t, anyhow,
seem to have made a claim against that'land-
agency pastoral firm which was mainly respon-
sible for the creation of the Machine Shearers*
Union.
The idea of Irvine going into Federal
politics is again harped on in Melbourne, and the
is particularly fervid in describing the
aching nature of the void in the Commonwealth
Parliament which he is to fill. But the Victorians
that the Akgus admired the most have gone
hopelessly under in the Federal swim, and Irvine
would do the same. He has acquired his reputa-
tion on the strength of a cold reserve. He is a
self-possessed man. That is to say he never gives
himself away, but there is no proof yet that there
is anything to give.
Last week Vic. Opposition-leader Prender-
gast extracted the information that the Strath-
kellar Estate, which the Closer Settlement Board
at auction, at £7 ss. per acre for
its 10,2 2 1 acres, had been valued and passed for
probate in October, 1900, at £4lss. per acre. This
valuation, according to the Master in Equity, had
been made by a valuer named Thomas Gumming
now Chairman of the Closer Settlement Board’,
lhere is a certain suggestiveness, not to say mis-
fortune, about the frequency of this Thomas
Gumming but then there are a lot of unfortunate
circumstances about Bent’s Closer Settlement
policy.
Extract from a circular issued to members
of Lands Boards by W. P. Crick when Minister
for Lands:—
. T he administration of Justice ought not only to be pure
m itself, and capable of being demonstrated to be so, but
nothing should be done by those administering it to
throw on it a substantial doubt. It is not enough that
the conclusion arrived at was right, and that it has been
arrived at on right principles, for every person having a
personal interest in any litigation, or having a direct or
indirect motive for desiring a particular decision to be
come to, should abstain from putting himself in such a
position as that, unconsciously to himself, a bias adverse
to the due administration of justice might take posses-
sion of his mind.
“ Quien Sabe ” from Kalgoorlie (W.A.) :—-
I have attended a few sittings of the Tariff Commission
here, and was sickened by the tales told by witness after
witness as to Australia’s inability to produce machinery.
The whole burden of the song I heard was that this
country is too poor a thing to make anything for itself,
that everything would be lovely if only the Federal duties
were lowered and we imported more and made less, and
so on. To one who has loved and roved this land for over
forty years, and who believes in it, if only properly
protected against the foreigner, all this whine about our
inability to produce most of our requirements is indeed
disheartening. What the Commission will decide if it
hears much of the rubbish I heard put before it I don’t
know. I was hopeful it would recommend a good High
Tariff. Now I am full of fears.
The anti-peace riots in Japan, as reported
by cable, were mild and watery affairs compared
with “the horrible brutality ” of similar happen-
ings in Russia. Now the facts, not as told by the
Japs, but as observed by casual foreigners in
Japan, begin to come out. A sample of the Tokio
riots:—•
Then a scene of horrible butchery took place. The
police made no effort to get the mob on the run, but
went in with short swords, stabbing and slashing merci-
lessly. I saw one man with his head cut open to"the ear.
Close beside him fell a poor little fellow, about II years of
age, who had been slashed under the armpit. A junsa
rushed past on my right and thrust a big coolie through
the throat. The blood gushed out in a jet and bespotted
the junsa’s white uniform with scarlet. The rioters had
scarcely any weapons but stones and cudgels. The police
were drunk with blood. They did not use the fiat of the
swords, but even when the mob was scurrying away pur-
sued their victims pitilessly, thrusting and hacking at
cowering backs and arms thrown up to protect heads.
Sydney Telegraph strangely-mixes up the
proposed universal training of the people with
conscription, and headed a shrieking article in a
recent issue “The Conscription Craze.” Then it
went on to urge the abandonment of any serious
attempt to provide for the defence of Australia
because it is “repugnant to British instincts.”
How would it be to make the attempt, and find
out for certain if “British instincts” can put up
with it ? There is nothing to be gained by rushing
at conclusions about “ British instincts.”
Two instructive cables in one issue (Oct.
19) of the Australian dailies :
The appeal to the nation made by Field-Marshal Lord
Roberts for funds to encourage rifle shooting only pro-
duced £lOl7. P
The steamer Glaucus reports having spoken H.M.S.
Pioneer, towing H.M.S. Pyramus, which is broken down.
The Pyramus is coming out to reinforce the Australian
squadron.
Australia is urged by one section of its disloyalists
not to worry about defence but to pay a subsidy
to the Ma Country to look after us and keep
snakes off us. And in one day come cables
emphasising the facts that Britain doesn’t seem
capable of looking after its own defence, and that
the fleet sent here in return for our naval subsidy
is largely sent for the same reason, as the early
population was sent, because it is good stuff to get
rid of.
The latest person to talk the secession
foolishness is Premier Bason of Westralia, who is
snorting because his State hasn’t got its trans-
continental railway on the instant. Even if it
were possible for Westralia to secede, it is difficult
to see how much better off it would be as regards
its railway when it had done so. It would then
have no voice in the Commonwealth to cry out for
a Federal line, and would simply have to write
letters to the S.A. Government asking it to join
in building a line as a State enterprise, S.A.’s
share being to carry the work through its desert
to the border. Westralia can do that writing now ;
only S.A. has no money. For that matter
Westralia hasn’t the money for its own share of
the line, even if S.A. were able to move. At
present Westralia has two chances—of a State-
owned transcontinental or a Federally-owned one.
If it secedes it will lose the second chance, which
is really the only one worth mentioning.
UNANIMITY.
BOTH : “ Hallo, Nosey! ”
Dan Levy, in N.S.W. Assembly, objected
to Arthur Griffith’s Disposal of Property Bill—a
measure to prevent the ancient curmudgeon from
willing his property to a Lost Dogs’ Home and
throwing his widow and children on public charity
—on the alleged ground that for hundreds of years
testators have had the legal right to make such wills.
That argument would have been fati.l to most
reforms—among them the law permitting Jews
to sit in Parliament.
It now seems to be a fact that when
Germany attempted to hector France a few
months ago, Britain dropped a hint to the Kaiser
that it was with France on that issue even to the
point of fight, whereupon Germany changed the
subject hurriedly and said it looked like rain.
The news is good as showing the solidity of the
Anglo-French understanding, an understanding
which may in the future save Britannia from the
humiliation of house-keeping with an Asiatic.
Moran, leader of the Independent or Un-
fixed remnant in the Westralian Assembly, in-
formed a Perth audience last week that if he were
Premier he would urge the State to offer the Com-
monwealth £4,000,000 (not cash, but I O U) on
condition thac it was allowed to secede, and sink
back into the old local muddle. This reckless
sloshing around of a very dubious piece of paper
may yet bring Mr. Moran into trouble. When a
politically intoxicated person is found hanging on
to a lamp-post and offering to give away £4,000,000
that he hasn’t got, he is bound to attract the at-
tention of the police.
The horrible statement comes from London
that a systematic policy of selling white girls as
slaves is being pursued by Bruce Smith’s yellow
friends, in China. The girls are engaged to go
there to situations at high salaries, and then they
drop out of view. China swallows them up for
ever. It may cheer Bruce Smith to know that a
white girl slave is worth from £lOO to £2OO in
China.
The most disgraceful feature of the debate
on the N.S.W. Liquor Bill was the proposed
amendment of Holman, M.L.A., that a publican
should be allowed to supply drink in unlimited
quantities to any one (infants and aborigines
apparently included) so long as the said drink was
not consumed on the premises. The only time in
his life when Premier Carruthers rose to some-
thing like eloquence was when he threw this pro-
position back at Holman in disgust, and the
returned object struck Holman in the eye and
made him stagger.
One Rev. Craven, of Westralia, who has
been lecturing through England, returns with a
very modified Stinking Fish yarn—so modified, in
fact, as to give the lie to many preceding decom-
posed Friday dinners. He says that during his
travels he failed to observe any prejudice against
the Commonwealth by reason of its Immigration
Restriction Act; but adds that the clauses in the
postal contract re white labor “ were a subject of
universal discussion.” And considering how the
British marine person is despised and rejected in
his own land, any policy which aims at giving him
a job is likely to excite a good deal of discussion.
One of the Sydney insectarian papers
claims that President Suttor of the Upper House
“owes his appointment to Crick,” and com-
ments
In view of this the evidence of Mr. Webster, of the
A.J.S. Bank, places Mr. Suttor, who is a director of the
bank, in a rather curious light, and his explanation of
what looks like a little plot in the board-room is awaited
with interest.
It certainly is awaited with interest—by the coun-
try. According to Mr. Webster’s evidence Mr.
Suttor was made cognisant of certain facts which—
rightly or wrongly—seemed to point a suspicion at
a Atinister who was then his colleague in the
Cabinet. Did he inform his then Premier John
See? It seems to be Mr. Suttor’s duty to go
before the Lands Commission and explain things.
Another of Bent’s brilliant ideas—the
encouragement of railway passenger traffic in
Melbourne suburbs by grant-
ing free passes to persons
building new villas in cer-
tain outer districts—has
gone adrift. But little
advantage has been
taken of the concession,
but a good deal of ad-
vantage of the State.
Mostly the speculative
builder ran up a new
residence just inside the
free-pass area, and then
persuaded a tenant over
the road to shift across,
at the same rent he was
paying, with a pass
thrown in. So there are
now several new houses
occupied inside the free-
pass areas and as many
empty ones outside—
and the railway revenue
has lost instead of
gained.
The criminal law
revision recommended
by Yic. Crown Prosecu-
tor Finlayson and Bar-
rister Woinarski goes a
good way towards the
abolition of the death
sentence. They ad-
vise that, when a j ury
recommends to
mercy, the judge
shall merely “ re-
cord ” sentence
of death ; and,
further, that no
“recorded”
death sentences
shall be carried
out. It will thus
rest almost
wholly with a
jury whether
there shall be a
hanging or not.
At any rate, it
will be open to
the jury to say
that there shall
not be a hang-
ing. But why
not go the. whole
hog, and leave it to the jury to say “guilty ” in the
first, second or third degree, or “not guilty”?
And why go through the mummery of “ recording ”
a death sentence that is never to be carried into
effect ?
A refreshingly broad-minded alderman,
named Howard, of the borough of Paddington
(Sydney), moved the other day to merge the
municipality into the city of Sydney. He pointed
out that Paddington was getting deeper and
deeper in debt, and that the only solution of the
financial problem was union with a Greater Syd-
ney. But the mayor and the remaining aldermen
gasped, and wrathfully demanded why they
should sacrifice their position and authority as
long as they could float a new loan to pay off the
old one. The motion lapsed without a seconder.
Bumble won’t give up his bumblements until the
bailiffs are actually in.
S.M. Herald (14/10/ 05)
The Government considers it unfair to expect that the
Crown is always to have picked land available for settle-
ment, especially under our system of “select early and
often.” Things have reached that stage now that the
Government has a right to look to private landowners to
assist in settling people on the land. The majority of the
immigrants reaching Canada buy private land there at
£4 an acre, and it is only the minority who take up
Government land.
Well, there is one sure way to get private land-
owners to “ assist in settling people on the land,”
and that is to make them do so—by a heavy pro-
gressive land-tax which will render the holding of
big estates unprofitable.
After all, how much does Bent’s barracking
for Australian industry and Australian-made
goods amount to ? Whenßeazley, M.L.A., moved,
in Vic. Assembly lately, that no machinery or
goods for the State service that can be manufac-
tured or produced here should be obtained else-
where, Bent and his Ministers voted against the
proposal, and against every amendment moved
with intent to give an effective preference to local
goods. When McKinnon proposed a preference
in accordance with the settled policy of the State,
Thomas jumped up and moved the adjournment
of the House, thus wiping the motion off the
paper. It was a trick, but Bent’s “statesmanship”
is made up of things like that.
Three more or less Tory M.’sL.A.—
Fair bairn, M‘Gregor, and Bowser—have before
Vic. Assembly a Farriers Bill, to regulate the
practice of horse-shoeing, and to appoint a board
of control, etc. It is doubtless a desirable reform ;
but has anybody yet heard of a Bill to prevent
the passing off of paper-puff as leather in chil-
dren’s shoes ? Or of selling shoddy and mungo as
tweed, or flannelette as genuine all-wool? The
well-being of Fairbairn’s horses seems to be of
much more concern than the well-being of
Victoria’s children.
Sydney Telegraph, which not so long ago
sat at the feet of Bill Lyne when that long person
was dispensing favors to its friends, can’t find a
good word for him to-day. The Telegraph has
just finished a campaign demanding that every-
thingshould be done to remove the opium curse from
Australia. Lyne has done something practical to
meet the Telegraph’s demand ; he has gazetted a
regulation providing that all the cheap smuggled
opium found on the unobtrusive and elusive Chow
is to be confiscated and destroyed. Therefore the
King-street journal complains that Lyne’s action
will mean the loss of a quantity of a good and use
ful drug.
N.S.W. Assembly has at present sitting
select committees re :
Allegations by the Rev. W. Woolls Rutledge respecting
an appointment to the public service.
Claim of Robert Roberts, late bookbinder, Registrar-
General’s Department.
Claim of Mr. F. E. Stowe, electric tram, Darling-street,
Balmain.
Refusal of the Pharmacy Board to register Mr. Walter
Trafford.
And members, for their £3OO a year, are expected
not only to attend wearisome, stonewalling
debates in the House, but to give a share of
attention to such maundering trifles. Little
wonder that we mostly seem to get “a certain
sort of person ” as an M.P.
Mr. Henry Lee writes :
In your issue of October sth there appeared an article
“Looking for Land.” The writer says that after five
days “ breathless exertion ” the present Premier of Vic-
toria has discovered a place near Warrnambool known as
the Barren Plains, which he considers an ideal spot
for a parcel of General Booth’s immigrants. Your
correspondent confounds a place long known to residents
of Victoria to be of very little commercial value, with
another very large tract of country situated in the County
of Heytesbury. The plot of land which is selected by the
Government for experimental purposes is fully 30 miles
distant from the area mentioned by your correspondent
of the sth inst., and decidedly of a better quality.
By the same mail The Bulletin received a letter
from another local resident who says that the
writer of “ Looking for Land ” was correct, and
that it is the muddy hopeless area he referred to
(and not the better area that Mr. Henry Lee refers
to) on which Bent proposed to settle immigrants.
Also, by the way, ‘ ‘ Looking for Land ” was con-
tributed by a man who has spent almost his whole
life in the district.
“San Remo”: Be par. (B. 12/10/’O5)
about Leahy’s demand for a division in Queens-
land Assembly. Here is the incident in full:
Kenna’s Bill was drifting along. Very few had
anything to say for it, and no one spoke against
it. Apparently the House understood it would
be a unanimous vote in favor. Speaker Cowley
woke up suddenly and put the question, “All in
favor of this measure will say,” &c. There was
dead silence, broken only by the snores of members
who were leaving it for the other fellow to say
“Aye.” “ All against the measure,” &c. Then
“ Janny ” Leahy took in the humor of tlie.situa-
tion and shouted “No.” His was the only voice.
“The Noes have it,” called the sleepy Speaker,
and was proceeding with the next business (more
sleep). Just then, the House awoke with a start
to realise that “Janny” was outvoting all the
rest of the House, and “Janny” himself, terrified
at the position, demanded a division and fled for
his life.
“ Cassandra ” lets down his back hair in
the far West and prophesies :
The Westralian Labor party picks up the gloves for the
hottest fight in its history. An unequal fight, which can
have only one issue. The dissolution has been sprung
upon the party just when public opinion is loudest
against it, and while it is divided against itself, unpre-
pared and disorganised. The party goes out with 22
members; if it struggles back with 16 it will achieve
wonders. The Collie seat will not be won again. Three
Fremantle seats go down the wind. Northam takes a
long farewell of its Labor member. Labor member
Keyser, of Albany, announces that he will stand as an
Independent—he will probably have to remain standing
in any case. Kalgoorlie is doubtful; North Perth is
hopeless ; Coolgardie hangs in the balance. All these are
at present Labor seats. The only non-Labor seat that
can be won is Boulder, which “ Bomb ” Hopkins quits to
try his fortune on the coast. A big effort will be made to
wrest Perth and East Perth from the Rason grip, and
there is some slight prospect of success in the first case.
The Eastern Goldfields seats, with the exception of Kal-
goorlie, are safe enough, and so are the Murchison seats ;
but elsewhere is written in large letters —“ Ichabod."
But the Labor party hasn’t abandoned hope—not being
built that way. It can be relied upon to put up a sturdy
fight, even on the losing side ; and though it cannot hut
emerge from the melee with diminished numbers, it will
probably be a stronger party in other respects.


WALKING MADE EASY.
CALLAGHAN
COMMERCE
BOOT
put it on in our shop.
So say thousands
of wearers.
Level-headed business men are easily able to
figure out profit in buying CALLAGHAN
BOOTS. They know well that ill-fitting
boots or shoes mean loss of concentrated
energy loss of time loss of money. The
... .
FRENCH CALF ... 16/6
POST PAID ... 17/6
TAN LEATHER ... 17/6
POST PAID ... 18/6
Free Delivery now includes West Australia,
OPINION OF A WEARER.
“ Messrs. Callaghan & Sons,
Dear Sirs, . ... I was afraid, the boots would be too narrow
when I first opened the parcel, but was agreeably surprised to find
they were an exact fit—indeed, a home for my poor feet. I will not
fail to recommend your goods.— C. 8., Thursday Island.”
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue. Post Free.
WE EXCHANGE BOOTS, OR WE RETURN
MONEY IE SATISFACTION IS NOT GIVEN.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
—For
BeautiYul
Hair at all
A 22c^ii
spcSfSta?
/p 3 Co///hs St
Melbourne
£
V
POOLE, t? Black Dcv&nc^s
77|E have much pleasure in calling the attention of our numerous readers
who are interested in the preservation and growth of the Hair, to the
great success achieved by ... .
Mr. EDWIN HOLLAND,
Hair & Skin
Specialist . .
$
195 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
So great lias been the demand for the Splendid Preparations for the
Skin and Hair that he has been compelled to move into
■ LARGER PREHISES.
Ho can now be consulted daily at the FINE NEW PREMISES
Next to the “Argus ” Office.
IVIr. Holland is spoken of as the Greatest Expert on
the Skin and Hair that we have in the Common-
wealth of Australia. Indeed, his services are sought
after by people living in nearly every part or the world.
A lady, writing from Denmark, says : “ Your Naturalene for the color of the Hair is all that you
claim for it.”
Another lady, writing from England, wants to buy the formula of his Plytoline, as it has done her
hair more good than all the numerous preparations she has used.
Another lady, living in England, testifies to the fact that his Parasene is the most wonderful loiion
for the Cure of Eczema and Scalp Troubles she has used.
We have seen many of the wonderful testimonials he has received from grateful clients, speak-
the great success of his treatment. If there is anything' wrong with yonr Scalp
and Hair, it will be worth your while to pay him a visit, and to use his preparations.
They are sold by all chemists and by the Proprietor,
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
telephone 2378. j 95 COLLINS ST., JTELBOURNE. '
'(ImC
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St,, Sydney
P. & B. PRESERVATIVE PAINT
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER PAINTS
DIFFERENT PAINTS FOR
use under differentconditionsisessen-
tial to success. You wouldn’t use a
whitewash brush lor coloring plans, or
a carpenter’s chisel for chipping stone.
You use different tools for
different purposes,
s^ me thing applies to paints.
Whitelead and color paints are best
for ornamental purposes, but for pro-
tecting any surface from damp you
can’t equal P. & B. Paint. .
‘lfit is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”
—MAttCUS AOREI.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Aust. Hep.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT 00., 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. S. FRIEND & CO., Sydney, N.S.W. JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
JAMES W. JACK, Wellington, N.Z. WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A.
NORMAN & CO., Adelaide, S.A. G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.z!
E. T. HARRIS, Townsville, Q. EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., n!z!
HEDLEY BUTTON, Launceston, Tas. JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb. Vic!
THOMPSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
O,OOOSAVED!
...ACTION v. AIR-
PERFORMANCE v. PROMISES
On October 4th, 1905, a deputation of local manufacturers of
harvesters waited upon the Minister of Customs, and intimated that
if a prohibitive tariff were declared upon harvesters they would
reduce the prices then ruling by £5 the first year, and another £5
the second year. They were, however, so far as can be learned from
press reports, suspiciously silent about what the third, fourth, and
subsequent years were to bring forth re harvester prices, and those
who follow that good old rule—“judge the future by the past ”
will mistrust that should the manufacturers succeed in their designs
to prohibit harvester importations, they will find some way to get
back the £5 and £lO cut promised for a limited time only. It is
well known that they, like all other sellers have in the past, always
got ALL THEY COULD, hence these indefinite promises look
strangely like “ HOT AIR.”
On October 7th, the harvester buyers of Australia got ACTION,
—they got performance instead of promises—they got something
substantial NOW instead of vague illusory promises to be realised
on in the dim future; for on that date we made an open
quotation on our harvesters as follows:
£7O cash at starting.
£73 March Ist, 1906.
£77 half March Ist, 1906 and half March Ist, 1907.
£BO quarter cash and quarter each March Ist, 1906, 1907, 1908.
£B5 third each March Ist, 1906, 1907, 1908.
This is a cut of £l2 10 0 per harvester, averaging cash and
terms prices together. There will be about 4,000 harvesters sold
in Australia this season, and hence our action obviously saves the
farmers approximately £50,000.
We shall settle with the hundreds of purchasers whose orders
we now hold at the reduced prices quoted above, believing that
those Avho entrusted us with early orders should be loyally protected,
although we must lose thousands of pounds in so doing.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
AGENTS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne*
Adelaide, Launceston and
Christchurch
68
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ o. ELDRIDGE & GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post.from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
DRUNKENNESS CURED —Write to me and I will
forward my free book showing’ how drunkenness can be
cured secretly or otherwise at home, at small cost.
Permanent cure guaranteed. New, scientific ; a revela-
tion in treatment. ERASMUS CAMPBELL, Melbourne
Chambers, 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
MOUNTCASTLE’S,
HATTEBS.
NEW ADDRESS
305 <acorg? St., Sydoey.
GENT’S GOOD HATS.
POLICY roil the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, 8d


Cable Address—>
PASTI/VIE, SYDNEY.
M. J. MOLONEY,
Tattersa/I's Club,
SYDNEY .
COMMISSIONS Executed.
LONGEST MARKET RATES
GUARANTEED.
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations .
Pr/oe Lists forwarded on Application .
Telegraphic Address—
MOLONEY, Tatters all's,
SYDNEY.
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to Hia Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives
• ' Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The disqualification of Emir for carrying short
weight in the Eclipse Stakes at Caulfield, last week, raises
the same old question as to what ought to be done for the
protection of the outside public in these cases where they
stand to lose their money for certain Jpy backing the horse
that comes in first. The best safeguard would be to delay
the weighing-out of jockeys until close upon the time
when the horses have to leave the “ birdcage,” but a
thumping big penalty for the delinquents might serve
well enough. In the Emir case it appears that the lead-
bag with which jockey Ross had duly weighed was hung
across the side rail of the horse’s stall whilst Emir was
being leisurely saddled up, and hanging there it was
strangely forgotten. The horse might have mentioned it
if he had known what he was expected to hump, but
Emir is a sulky animal anyhow, and he made no
sign on the subject. He went out to win the
race, and was disqualified for want of that lead-
bag. Another famous horse, Marmont, brought his
backers to grief in exactly the same way last year.
The lead bag had been overlooked. He started under
false pretences as to the weight, and the stewards, as in
Emir’s case, were satisfied that no fraud was intended.
To the public who back an underweighted horse it makes
no difference whether the omission of the lead bag from
the winner’s burden was intended, or otherwise. To the
owner, jockey, trainer, and their particular friends it
would make a vast difference if they backed the gee that
came in second and got the race, with a knowledge of the
fact that the popular favorite was not weighted up to re-
quirements, The first time a bookmaker’s horse, trained
in a stable of dubious character, happens to win a race
whilst its lead-bag Is hanging over the rail of its stall, the
stewards will probably introduce a bye-law for the chastise-
ment of the delinquent parties. Surely it is more than
one person’s business to see that an Emir or a Marmont
travels with all its luggage.
* * * *
The Caulfield .Cup was a repetition of last year’s
result as regards long-priced horses. The outsiders had
nothing to do with the finish, the four placed ones—
Marvel Loch, Warroo, Torah, and Emir —being quoted at
10, 14, 4, and 12 to 3, respectively. Of these, Warroo
would have been more fancied but for the series of small
troubles debited aga’nst him in his preparation for the
race. Among the favorite-, the unluckiest were Boabdil,
who got considerably squeezed and bumped, and Emir,
who had always a bad place until he got clear of the
beaten horses approaching the turn, and was subsequently
interfered with in the little scrimmage that brought
Scot Free to grief. But, taken as a whole, the Oup
seemed to be a more truly-run race than would
ordinarily result from a field of 31 on the Caul-
field course. The finish from the turn homewards was a
procession headed by Marvel Loch. The mare’s nearest
followers were Warroo and Torah, the Adelaide youngster
losing a little ground towards the finish, whilst Emir
was the only one of the back lot to make a noticeable
show in pursuit of the leaders. From the head of Marvel
Loch to the tail of Emir (placed fourth) there was a
distance of ten lengths or thereabouts, and the race had
ceased to be exciting before the vvinnei- passed the post.
By a strange coincidence the four places were divided
between two horses that started close to the rails and
two that started from the outside of the field. Marvel
Loch and Warroo had the inside places. The warmest
admirers of the speedy Sydney mare must admit that she
probably covered less ground than anything else in the
race. Nowadays it is a great advantage to get away
close to the rails for a Caulfield Cup. The tradition of
two shocking wholesale accidents as the result of crowd-
ing in at the turns has made the boys somewhat wary of
the risk. The field makes a wider sweep than of yore,
and the luckily-situated jockeys profit by the cautious-
ness of the others.
- * * *
Comparing the Caulfield Cup result with recent
form in w.f.a. races, one is forced to the conclusion that
the main body of ordinary handicap horses running just
now—and especially the Victorians, bar Gladsome—are a
very poor lot. In the October Stakes, at Flemington,
nearly three weeks ago, Torah ran a respectable second to
Gladsome, the others “ nowhere.” A week later Torah
and Marvel Loch beat Gladsome. Again, in the Eclipse
Stakes, Emir (disqualified). Marvel Loch and Boabdil
filled the places, with Warroo fourth. And-in the Caul-
field Cup it was the w.f.a. performers that showed up—-
Marvel Loch, Warroo, Torah and Emir getting right away
from the mob. Boabdil, perhaps, had a rough passage,
and Maniopoto was clearly suffering from the effects of a
bad cold. These two are pretty certain to do better in the
Melbourne Cup, if they thrive meanwhile, but for most
of the others there is no apparent ghost of a hope.
Maniopoto, indeed, has the best of Melbourne Cup chances
“on paper.” His weight is only 8.10, including the
penalty for winning the Metropolitan— i.e., he will have
to give Warroo only 91b. for beating him by eight lengths
at Sydney. The handsomest horse in the Caulfield Cup
field, the Maorilander was sweating profusely as soon as
he went out, like a convalescent, but on returning to the
“ birdcage ”he looked all the better for his gallop. If he
can be fully prepared for the two-mile race, as presum-
ably he can, and if there is no doubt about his stamina,
what is to beat Maniopoto in the Melbourne Cup ? Marvel
Loch and Warroo were at his heels when they turned into
the straight at Randwick for the Metropolitan. Six
seconds later he was winning by the leng th of the pro-
verbial street in record time. And. now the Oamlfield
Cup running of Marvel Loch and Warroo points to Manio-
poto as a good thing for the Melbourne Cup, in which he
will carry 111 b. less than, his weight last Saturday.
* * * *
Marvel Loch’s time has only been twice beaten
in the Caulfield Cup records, but it was 3j-sec. slower than
Maniopoto’s great gallop for the Metropolitan.
Marvel Loch is another argument in favor of
allowing horses to season before they are raced. She
was an advanced three-year-old when she made her first
appearance in public—and won.
Torah, thus far, has run 12 times, and has only
once been unplaced. So the natty little South Australian
three-year-old must be given a chance for the Melbourne
Cup, although he didn’t shape like a stayer in the Caul-
field event.
* * * *
Two stiff nobblers of brandy, in small lemonade
bottles, were administered to Emir before he went out
for the Caulfield Cup. The brute took the liquor un-
graciously, but seemed quite willing to eat one of the
bottles.
* * * *
Colman, a Melbourne bookmaker, who is at
loggerheads with the V.R,C., has commenced a law action
to test the club’s power to charge fees or impose any
conditions whatsoever on bookmakers. Under ordinary
circumstances the case would not come on for hearing
till after the running of the Cup ; but Colman has per-
suaded the Law to get a move on, in the hope that the
V.R.C. may be prohibited from charging fees at the
November meeting. The Chief Justice will hear argu-
ment in an application for an interim injunction against
the V.R.C., and on the result it depends whether Colman
will howl the odds at the Cup, or whether he will have to
go away into the middle of a vacant selection and bellow
at himself for practice. If the club goes dow'n, then it
has no right to prevent anyone calling the odds, and the
bookmakers will be cnished by unlimited competition,
and that will be a lot worse than the tyranny of the power
that grants them their monopoly. And then, when
everybody puts on a bag and yells, the position will be so
dreadful that “ hasty legislation ” will be introduced to
cope with the evil, and in the haste and anger the book-
maker may be killed altogether.
* ♦ * ♦
“F.C.” : There was a distinct tip about the
name Torah —but it was of the wrong sort; it was a hint
to leave the prad alone. Torah—pronounced Towrah—is
a Jewish term meaning a sacred ordinance or command.
The day following the Cup was Simchas Torah —a
festival of rejoicing—and when Torah, who had been a
short-priced favorite for weeks, toiled home five lengths
behind Marvel Loch, Jewry rejoiced exceedingly. A horse
whose name suggests even remotely that Hebrewdom is
going to rejoice seems a good steed to neglect.
* * * *
Last week Wilkins, a member for the Tote
electorate in the Vic. Assembly, moved the adjourn-
ment to discuss the position of the V.R.C. Wilkins
professed himself “at a loss to understand why the
Government should permit a huge gambling business
to be conducted on the Flemington racecourse.”
The Chief Sec. explained that “ the power to register
bookmakers was included in the V.R.C. by-laws
20 years ago, and was intended as a protection to the
public. Asa matter of law, any person could make a bet
on a racecourse. It was only made illegal by statute to
bet in certain places.” In short, the Law has the
honesty to admit that horse-racing and betting must be
co-existent, and it makes a pretence of endeavoring 4 to
confine race-gamblers to the actual course, where the
issue of their gamble is decided. Here is a statement of
fact amounting to an irresistible argument in favor of a
legalised totalisator under proper control. If the V.R.C.
was formerly granted the power to license bookmakers
for the protection of-the public, the club should now be
permitted to ensure further protection and fairer play for
the public by substituting a silent, decent tote for that
mostly abominable person, I key Mo. The public in
general, always getting the worst of the odds and being
victimised by the roguery attaching to “ market ” con-
siderations, is anxious for the tote. The V.R.C., living
on public patronage—not upon the entry fees and license
fees of cronk horse-owners and fatted bookmakers (one
and the same thing- in many cases) —is also desirous of the
legalised tote. Yet the Vic. Parliament illogically blocks
the way to this reform.
* * * *
The opening clay of the third round of Sydney
first-grade cricket was not remarkable for its batting.
Only one century appeared, and that was what the classic
Greek poet Pindar called a “bonzerina,” A. B. S. White, of
North Sydney, carrying his bat out for 198. The afternoon
was fine though cloudy, but the ground was soft from
rain that had fallen during- the week. The next nearest
approach to a century was the 90 which Mackay, of Bur-
wood, put up between the time that his side got Gordon
out for 130 and the drawing of stumps. It was a beautiful
exhibition of cricket, for he hit them all round the wicket
and never gave a chance. No one else did anything
with the willow worth whooping about. Bowling all
round was good. Hill, of Waverley, took the loaf,
knocking- down five wickets for 37 runs; Middleton,
of Sydney, took five of Balmain for 49 ; Cronan, of Central
Cumberland, g-ot away with four for 42 ; Fisher, of the
Uni., knocked down three for 30; and Garnsey, of Bur-
wood, shivered seven of Gordon’s for 72.
* * * *
North Sydney faced its recently severed limb,
Middle Harbor, and made the score of the day, 357.
Balmain only managed to put up 127 against Sydney, the
side - including no less than four poultry-farmers, and
three others who only escaped the same profession by the
skin of their teeth. Glebe and Central Cumberland went
in for quick cricket, the butchers disappearing with 150
to their credit. Central Cumberland rushed to the sticks,
and at sunset had piled up 93 for fou'r w-ickets. Waverley
got Paddington all out for 152, and had made 35 for a loss
of two wickets at the draw’ng of stumps. Redfern left
210 on the board, and : the University showed 31 for the
first wicket. Gordon only made a humble 130 against
Burwood, which put up 151 for the loss of four wickets.
* * *
Hill, the young Waverley (N.SW.) bowler, fell on
the Paddington batsmen like a bomb on a Russian grand
duke. He got his first two wickets before a single run
was scored off him, and when he took his third only four
had been scored. Finally, he had five for 37. This is his
second appearance in first grade cricket, and practically
his first opportunity. He is a left-hander, a “fast
medium,” and breaks from either left or right at will.
He graduated from Sydney Grammar School.
I ‘ ,* * * *
Adelaide has had to drop strictly electorate
cricket, one of the suburban constituencies being alto-
gether too -big; but the district principle will be still
adhered to. On the other hand, East and West Adelaide,
the two halves of the city proper, have been allowed to
amalgamate, making one strong club. It won its first
match by one run against North Adelaide. East Torrens
lost on the same day to the Port by one wicket. Joe
Travers made top score for Adelaide, besides taking four
wickets.
*•* * *
The three State associations have decided to
abolish the gilt trinkets hitherto given each year to the
boss team in the Sheffield Shield contests, except in the
case, of the player .who has not already received one to
hang, outside his .waistcoat. Which won’t g-rieve the soul
of the present day flannelled fool much—the f.f. is still
wise enough to prefer the “brass” to the bauble. The
spirit of the age !
Victorian Cricket Association is going to allow
electorate cricket to slide for another season, and the
amalgamation of League and Association teams will be
given an opportunity of bettering cricket in the Lent
State. The influence of the gilded Melbourne 0.0. has
much to do with retarding the -introduction of the elec-
torate system ; and the Vic. Association and clubs generally
bow the knee to the M.0.C., because, in the dim long
ago, the M.C.O. was the mouthpiece of Australia with the
Mar.vlebone Cricket Club in the matter of the visits of
English teams to Australia.
* * * *
Joe Darling, captain of the late lamented Aus-
tralian Ashes Syndicate, arrived with a big brush and a
large bucket of whitewash amongst his luggage, .and pro-
ceeded to splash vigorously around directly he touched
Australia. After some large dabs of puerile excuses for
Test-match ignominies, which made every cat in the
country writhe with merriment, he decorated his crowd •
individually and collectively with three thick coats from
the aforesaid bucket, until the rankest failures of them
all assumed the aspect of brilliant successes. A query as
to the finances.touclied the canny Joe on his strong point,
and he replied warily that probably other tours had
panned out more successfully. No information is available
as to the number w'ho went “ on terms,” and the conse-
quent fattening of the shares of the big guns.
* * ♦ *
Stated at tlie Victorian Cricket Association's
meeting-, t’other night, that the Australian XI tour will
pan out at £9OO a man, and that each of the “ tests ” gave
a profit of £75 to every Australian player. But Captain
Darling denies the figures.
* * * *
Harry Trott and one-time brilliant left-hander
Bruce willbe missing from Victorian cricket during the com-
ing season. They have decided to retire instead of waiting
for forcible ejection. Young left-hander Vernon Ransford
(who batted ably in the Vic. State team last year) made a
good start for Melbourne, t’other day, with a fine innings
of 35 (on a bad wicket); and another promising batsman
named Christian, who took the premier average in the
East Melbourne Club last season, knocked up 94 in 90
minutes. Altogether, it seems possible that the Victorian
representative team for the coming season will have many
new faces in it.
* * * *
The new method of allotting the points in
Sydney first grade cricket will work out badly in one
respect. In order to get a three-point win clubs will, if
last season’s mammoth scoring be repeated, “declare”
immediately the star batsmen have finished, and the tail,
which most wants practice, will get mighty little of it,
and be used for fielding only.
Re Charles Tudor Bird, recently found dead
near Ararat (Vic.). For the information of numerous
inquirers as to whether “Charles Tudor’’was identical
with “ Albert Edward ” Bird, the English ped. whom
Coppin imported to Melbourne in 1869, The Bulletin is
now prepared to vow and declare that he wasn’t. Up to
last week the flying Bird of yore could be seen in Mel-
bourne as usual, and he didn’t look likely to be a dead
Bird yet awhile. The old ped. is nothing of a flier
nowadays. He just potters about, a quaint bent figure
with the assistance of two stout walking- sticks. Makes
himself useful to the stall-holders at Victoria Market as a
watchman, and when not on duty at the market his
principal dissipation is to stand around in Bourke-street
and exchange greetings w-ith members of the “ sporting ”
fraternity who knew him personally in his younger days,
or are acquainted with his history.
* * * *
The Law has advanced a step further in the
gambling-suppression maze, through Victorian Justice
Hood’s decision that Calcutta sweeps are a game of chance,
and therefore illegal. In a Calcutta sweep the names of
horses or dogs (it seems to be mostly drawn about alleged
dogs) are drawn against the names of subscribers. The
chances of each dog are then put up to auction, anyone
being allowed to buy and the holder of the dog’s ticket being
allowed to buy in ; half this money goes into the prize
fund, half to the ticket holder. His Honor held that the
success of the original competitors depended entirely
upon chance, and that, if anyone purchased'a ticket he
fancied, the chanOe of winning was already attached to
that ticket, and could not be dissociated therefrom by
the riiere act of subsequent purchase. Conviction upheld
iyith costs, so there should be a considerable slump in
Calcutta sweeps, especially in country hotels, when the
coursing season comes round again.
The performances of Australian woman swimmer
Annette Kellerrnann have been attracting the attention
of Uncle Sam’s daughters, and a shoal of invitations to
come to Amurka and be licked have been forwarded to
the nut brown mermaid. The U.S.A. pins its faith to
Elaine Golding, spinster, of Bath Beach, New York State,
who is credited with having downed all who have met her.
* * * *
N.S W. cycling season has hardly got a proper
start as yet, and already there are odors of fish and cronk
practices rising all over the country. The League of
Wheelmen has discussed the idea of appointing a stipendi-
ary steward to take charge of all meetings at which prizes
of over £25 are competed for, but decided that it could
not afford the salary of a suitable man at-present. Any-
how, a man who knows all the rider's, as such an official
might have a reasonable chance of doing, seems to be
the only one who could deal with the swindlers at
present “ doing ” the country leagues by racing under
assumed names, getting light handicaps, and sweeping
the board. Cycle-racing under an assumed name is now
one of the thriving industries of the country.
*** ‘ *
Racing cyclists are beginning to wonder why it
is the foreign rider is usually a better sprinter than the
Australian. The explanation-seems to be that the rest of
the world trains for speed, and the Australian riders train
for stamina ; and the question is whether it is possible to
have both. The Australian riders have not had the
advantage of fast tracks like the Americans and Euro-
peans, and probably the appropriation of the world’s
sprinting championship by an Australian will eventuate a
couple of seasons after the laying down of a really fast
cycling track.
N.S.W. Rowing Association pulled an awfully
wry face before it decided to send a crew to represent the
State in the eight-oar championship set down for decision
at Perth. The N.S.W. Association loses sight of the fact
that the Westralian crew journeyed to Sydney, and
plugged along in the championship event; and Westralia
is a flea-bite compared with N.S.W. in rowing affairs
generally. Tasmania, Victoria and Queensland will also
be represented in the event.
* * » * .
D. G. Soutar, professional teacher of golf to the
fashionable persons who haunt the Bondi links, has won
the professional championship and purse of £2O put up by
the Melbourne Club. Soutar arrived in these parts some
three seasons ago, and joined a local suburban club as an
amateur. In that capacity he showed that he was a
champion, and the Royal Club offered him a comfortable
billet, which he, as a canny Scot, accepted.
» * * »
Professional ped. M. Bnxton (who, it is stated,
came from Yankeeland with Duffey) bumped against a
dark-hued person named Anderson in the final of the
Charters Towers (Q.) “ hundred,” the other night, and
went down heavily. The Yankee was given out as an
absolute “ moral,” but the bubble burst, and Anderson
took the £BO, leaving a tenner for the “good thing.”
Bananaland’s champion, Postle, was a couple, of inches
away third. Professional athletics are booming in North
Queensland at present.
* * » *
Australian axeman E. R. Terry is finding the
championship honor a huge burden ; in a recent chopping
contest at Charters T. (Q.), he was handicapped at 140 sec.
behind scratch, and even then was only just beaten.
Stevenson (the winner) had 135 sec. start of Terry, and got
through the log in 3min. 31sec. The champion’s effort is
only tearing a fine athlete to pieces in a branch of sport
which isn’t worth raving about.
* * » •
Unquestionably the best exhibition of rifle-
shooting ever put up at N.S.W. Rifle Association’s meet-
ings was the battle between Motton, of Charters Towers
(Q.), and Edwards, of Sydney, in “The King’s,” which
ended in a tie. A deciding trial of three shots at
1000yds. range was shot off, and again there was a tie ;
then Motton notched a “bull’s-eye” and Edwards only
put up an “inner,” leaving the Bananalander to scoop the
£3O first prize and taking £2O himself. There was a
general all-round excellence, too, in the plugging, at
the slippery “running-man” target in the “Finn”—a
kharki-colored “dummy,” which travels 100 yd. in 60sec.,
in which time the rifle-man must fire eight shots. The
abnormal number of shootists who succeeded in hitting'
the bull’s-eye (fixed somewhere on a ievel with the heart)
gave perhaps the best illustration of the military value of
rifle-shooting. » * *
Adelaide lawn-tennis association has taken the
revolutionary step of having all its club matches played
on one central ground, the Jubilee Oval, and on grass.
Championship and inter-State matches have been played
there for years, all the clubs meanwhile being at the dis-
advantage of practising on asphalt. The first rbund of
games under the new system saw all the leading clubs
defeated, and the season ought to be interesting. The
chief want is good juniors. S.A.’s best men are mostly
about 30, and some of them well beyond that.
* * * *
Ex-Premier Waddell’s snort in the N.S.W.
Assembly on the brutality of professional bruising may
have been 1 sincere enough—his legs seemed to tremble
with horror while he read the Star’s report of the Turner-
Whitelaw fight -but it was quite ridiculous. The element
of suspicion lies in the fact that Waddell, whilst Premier,
made no attempt to abolish the alleged brutal exhibitions.
Professional bruising in Sydney is seldom anything ap-
proaching brutal. Mostly it is humorous ; sometimes
just dreary. That Waddell should have picked the
Turner-Whitelaw scrap on which to hang his indictment
is curious—it was a very milk-and-water affair. Only
Waddell’s joss knows what sort of frenzy the ex-Minister
would have worked up had he been present at the M’Oall-
Murphy scrap for the championship ; probably the spectacle
would have brought on a fainting fit. And yet McCall
will probably live longer than Waddell. The pug. is given
to longevity. What Waddell forgets is that, when a man
has had enough, he can stop the fight by giving in. If
Waddell wants to attack brutality let him go for pigeon-
shooting and coursing. These are brutal pastimes, and
depend on their cruelty for their attractiveness. The
most pitiful sound writer ever heard is the agonised
scream of the hare as the teeth close on it. And the
horrible part of coursing, as it is practised in Sydney, is
that the hare that escapes to-day is kept to be hunted the
next day, and over and over again, till it is at last killed.
This is the refinement of cruelty and drawn-put torture.
Then consider the brutality of pigeon-shooting ; there are
few more repulsive sights than that of cramped little
pigeons—dozen after dozen of them—being blown to
pieces by whisky-soaked hogs at 20 odd yards. These
coarse savages are, with few exceptions, quite useless
with the rifle, and, in the event of an invasion, would be
conspicuous in the rush for the first train to the moun-
tains. Pigeon-shooting does not make good rifle shots,
neither does’it make strong muscles. It merely panders
to the brutality which characterised the degenerate
Roman mob that used to howl for the blood of gladiators,
while it feared to shed its own perspiration. When we
are governed scientifically any degenerate found taking
pleasure in the death agony of inferior creatures will be
exterminated as utterly depraved and likely to breed
murderers.
« * * *
The Turner-Whitelaw meeting, which roused
the shocked indignation of ex-Premier Waddell, hap-
pened at the Sydney National Sporting Club last week,
and was a fairly vigorous mill. Both worked at
a tremendous rate. The blows rained so fast that it
was impossible to see them, but nothing terrible hap-
pened, except the roaring of the audience, which couldn’t
have made more noise had it been beaten itself. It wasn’t
a boxing match—it was a whirly-whirly ; and it left
Turner pumped and done. He wasn’t knocked out, but
pumped out. His boiler had burst, and he couldn’t get
out of the way of the blows which Whitelaw kept drop-
ping on him, so the referee stopped the fight with a
verdict for Whitelaw 7 . It was a wise and just decision.
Curious how the crowd loves a whirling exhibition.
« * « *
Bob Fraser, the Melbourne middleweight, and
Dan Hiam, a plentifully-tattooed mariner from Sydney-
side, gave an illustration of the horridness of the boxing
game at Mick Nathan’s hall, Melbourne, the other Monday
night. The fight—which was a nice, clean, earnest mill—-
went the whole 20 rounds, and although Hiam was down
several times considering things for seven to nine seconds,
and went to his corner more than once with a sort of
herring-bone blind stagger, he finished with only a swelled
eye and that tired feeling. Fraser came through without
a scratch. The latter could certainly have given his
opponent a bad time had he gone at him with the man-
eating vehemence that timid politicians believe to be the
customary moral attitude of the boxer ; as it was, he
finished with plenty of points to spare, and was declared
winner by referee Dan Creedon. This was so sportsman-
like a battle, that the .voice of the referee was not heard
till he was called upon to place the competitors.
* « * *
Wilkes’ defeat by Quigley in the return fight, at
Sydney Gaiety, was fully expected. Quigley beat him in
the first disturbance ; moreover, Wilkes is depressed in
spirit by being mistaken for the Foreign-trade person
who misrepresents Dailey in the Commonwealth House
of Reps. Now Wilks, the member, does all his fighting
with his mouth, round the walls of Derry and other re-
mote places ; Wilkes, the bruiser, is no relation, and bar-
rackers will please remember the fact, otherwise Wilkes
will have to change his name.
Tim Murphy now signs himself Champion of
Australia, Africa and Hawaii. Sounds like the preamble
of one of Nero Caesar’s Early Closing Acts.
* -r * *
The small boy’s cigarette-card mania about
reached its limit, the other day, when the Bendigo (Vic.)
police arrested an infant of 11, who had broken into a
storekeeper’s premises for- the-sole purpose-of burglarising
cigarette-cards, 50 of which were found on him. Nothing
else of the tempting- stock was touched.
“ H.”: The fight for the championship of
Australia took place recently in a Sydney dentist’s
room. X. is a brilliant middle-weight, with a
dirty but fertile left —his crop of knock-outs has
astonished pugdoin. He asked me to accompany.
him while he was being separated from two aching
teeth. The dentist, a" pale, ladylike little man,
invited us into his plush-padded den, and waved the
champion to the velvet throne. The champion obeyed
nervously. “ Take it easy; sir,” he said, faintly. “ I ain’t
used to this sort of thing. I don’t mind a bash on the
dial, but I can’t stand them steel nippers. For Gawd’s
sake don’t lance me face.” He was like a man sitting on
the trap of a gallows, until the little dentist caught him
tenderly by the jaw, swung back his head, 'and' plunged
the forceps into the middle of a swear word. A struggle
followed, but the ladylike dentist had a wrist of iron.
Holding back the bullet head, he wrenched out a tooth
that left a hole in the pug’s best smile. The champion
stood up wrathfully. “If yer hurt me like that again,”
he shouted, “ I’ll breathe on yer with both hands.” The
little dentist patted him soothingly and drew him back to
the chair, and when the man of many fights raised his fist
threateningly he received a wicked stab in the gum.
After being poked with a shark-nosed forceps, the pug.,
while the steel was in his mouth, referred to dentists as a
gang of slaughtermen and hogs. Then the toothsmith
got a hammerloek on the eye-tooth, and it parted from
the pug. like a cow’s foot from a bog. I took the cham-
pion home in a cab. “ These fighting men are always the
same,” said the dentist afterwards.


I©*
<c>
-scP
DRUNKENNESS CXJFtED-
Asvuoni
may be given in Tea, Coffee or Food,
thus secretly curing 1 the Patient
WITHOUT HIS KNOWLEDGE OR CONSENT.
Mrs. J. HATTON cured her husband with Eucrasy ;
Miss R. E. WILLIAMS cured her father ; Mrs. K. LYNCH
rescued her husband; and Mr. W. F. STANTON, J.P.,
S. of T., and 1.0.G.T., heartily recommends it. If in
doubt call on us, and read hundreds of testimonial letters,
or interview cured patients. Book of References FREE.
Address or call on
THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter Street, Sydney.
ĥ
ARE THERE HOLES IN YOUR TEETH ?
TnnTU iinnr
i uu i nnum
USE NEPENTHE TOOTH BALM
Instantly allays the pain, and, as a perfect antisep-
tic, prevents its recurrence. SEVENPENCE pos ed.
UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO.
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A Splendid[
Article.-^
Only 1/6.
THE MOST USEFUL ARTICLE
EVER INTRODUCED.
It consists of a beautifully-finished
Exquisite PEN , Te/escopic
PENCIL, and FOLDING
RUBBER STAMP, with any
name and in any design, together
with Self-Inking Pad. Stamp very
useful for your letters, books,
photos., music, linen, &c. Order
one NOW. Don’t be without such
a useful article. Makes a Good
Present. Price 1/6 posted.
One buyer says : “It is a wonderful
outfit for the money. Send 8 more.”
BEAUTIFUL
NICKEL LOCKETS
to hang on your Watch Chain ;
inside contains Rubber Stamp with
jrour name, or Monogram,
and neat little Pad.
A Very Pretty Novelty,
WONT RUST.
POSTED.
ħ
AJ, SMITH & CO*
6 Moore St.,
SYDNEY.
ALUMINIUM SOVEREIGN CASES WITH NAME STAMP, 2/6.
JABORINE
HAIR TONIC.
The Finest Preparation ever introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 26, Posted 29, Give it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
h
Hotelkeepers, Fruiterers & Caterers
CAN PRODUCE
100dOZ. AERATED WATERS for 30/-
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE
AND VERY LITTLE LABOR.
The only machine used by the Officers’ Ward Room of the Australian Squadron and Victorian
Railway Refreshment Rooms.
NO STEAM POWER required to work it. Easily erected, and occupies very little space.
The “ GLACIER SODA FOUNTAIN.”
A Beautiful Marble Fountain for Chemists and Fruiterers. The most
economical fountain ever manufactured, outrivalling all American productions.
For Further particulars write for our Illustrated Catalogues.
ECKERSLEY & SONS, So/e Manufacturers,
W.A. Agents:
E. H. Fothergill & Co., Fremantle.
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Have an Electric Bell in Your Own Home
*7^
YOU CAN FIX IT UP FOR YOURSELF
IN A FEW MINUTES.
GENTLEMEN, —The necessity for a really reliable Electric Bell—which can be fitted up without the aid of an
electrician, which will not get out of order, which requires no attention beyond re-charging the Dry Battery
m
once every 12 or 18 months —has induced us to import a large number of
magnificent complete Outfits, possessing all these qualities, and others, as
illustrated.
SPECIFICATION.—Each Outfit consists of an Electric Box Bell, with
nickel-pl&ted 2iin. Gong; removable Dry Battery ; 50-feet Insulated
Copper Wire, and Press Button ; everything in working order ready for
use. No chemicals of any description are used. The Dry Battery is
charged by us before being sent out, and will supply the current of
electricity required for from 1 to 2 years, after which time it can be removed
in a second, and returned to us to be re-charged at a cost of only 2s. This
is positively all the Outfit will cost you in renewals. Everything about it
is simplicity itself —a child can set it up.
GUARANTEE.—A written Guarantee is given for six months, and,
further, we will refund your money if you are not entirely satisfied on
receipt of the outfit.
PRICE, complete, 15s.
Postage—N.S.W., Is. extra ;
Other States, Is. Bd. extra.
SUPERIOR FANCY PUSHES can be substituted for Is. 6d. extra.
ELECTRIC POCKET LAMPS (best on the market), 7s. 6cl. each—Post Free.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore St., SYDNEY.
BOVRIL
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
v recovery from exhausting
illness.
WHEREWITHAL SHALL YE BE CLOTHED.
NEARLY, very nearly, 1906 years have gone into the dim past since these words were
first uttered ; yet to-day they are as important in their spiritual sense as they were
then, and have ever been. They are also very important in their bodily application,
for if ye be not properly clothed ye cannot meet your enemy in the gate. The way to be
properly clothed, as becomes a reputable citizen of this great city, is to pick your tailor
with discretion ; and if you elect to patronise E. T. Walsh, Merchant Tailor, of 359
George-street, Sydney, opposite the General Post Office, you will, in the language of the
great poet, be “a thing of beauty and a joy forever” —to yourself, your wife, and all
your friends and acquaintances. Material, cut, finish, fit, and style are invariably the
best if the goods come from . . .
E. T. WALSH,
PRACTICAL TAILOR
EXPERT CUTTER
Samples and Measure Forms
sent to any Address.
359 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Jl
YeryOldVatteA
LiqueurWiiisky - .
JDistilled&BottJed. by
Kilmarnock .Scotland.
D?BAGSHAWS
VITAL FORCE TABLETS
t„ e iatest^best TON|c
*
&
ĥ
EASY
TO
CARRY,
EASYtqTAH?
tu
pep Box
vf 50 TABLETS
if not procurable /o catty fv/tt
neposted on receipt of 2/3qy
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CTSYDNE'
Certain individuals are urging that Aus-
tralia should subsidise a British-owned line of
steamers trading direct hence to Hull, in York-
shire —the English county where the woollen
manufactures are. Surely Australia pays too much
already for dragging its raw material (dirt and all)
half over the globe and back to it again as the
manufactured article. Let us establish our woollen
factories here with the aid of a stiff tariff,
and not fool about paying subsidies to other
people to make our clothes. It is much cheaper
to subsidise our own woollen mills than somebody
else’s ships.
That Japanese person, Kurachichi Succi,
who was charged in Melbourne with keeping a
disorderly house in which were three white
women, “all young and still showing traces of for-
mer beauty,” proved to be the possessor of a
passport, dated 1903, and signed by the Japanese
Consul in Melbourne and by a Japanese official in
Yokohama. Presumably, therefore, he passed as
a student, tourist or trader. Prime Minister
Deakin is arranging with Japan for an extension of
the passport system. It seems as if he should
first make inquiry as to how the present unex-
tended system has been used.
Douglas Wadclell, the recalcitrant N.S.W.
bankrupt, who has resided in the debtors’ prison
in Sydney since last April, has again refused to be
civil and answer the question put to him by the
Court officials. His frank and unassuming ob-
stinacy begins to make the Law uneasy. The
Law has not laid down for how long a contu-
macious bankrupt is to be detained in gaol, and
there is an uncomfortable feeling that he can’t be
chained up for the rest of his natural life, else
some day he will be raked up as a martyr, and a
general election will turn on him.
A tired man from the press gallery
The all-night sittings of N.S.W. Assembly in the reign
of Carnithers are miserably uninteresting - . There is talk,
of course, but it is unemotional and uninsi iring. It is
nag more than speech, and when a member attacks
another he uses flat, common abuse that is its own refu-
tation. During the all-night liquor debate Wade was
tricky, Hogue perky, and the Opposition stodgily gabble-
some ; but there was no ebullition, no spark to denote
fire, no play of fancy, no outburst of passion—nothing hut
stodgy men carping, and all anxious to be considered
well-behaved. A house of men like Parkes, Jennings,
Copeland, Garvan, N ini an Melville and Angus Cameron
sitting up all night over a Liquor Bill, would not have
been well-behaved, but it would lmve been in some danger
of being interesting.
3
l-M
"
<llBlll
*
#32?' ,m
6
DUNLOP
■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■
GARDEN
HOSE.
When purchasing Hose think of these facts:
DTJNLOP HOSE is unsurpassed for Strength, Durability, and Workmanship, and
is equal to any Hose in the world. It is made by Australians, with Australian capital.
It is warranted fresh and free from perish, which means increased life and less cost.
It is worth buying on its merits— apart from the fact that, by purchasing “Dunlop ’
Hose, you support an Australian Industry that employs 800 hands and spends
£lOO,OOO per annum in Australia. By purchasing our Hose you keep your money in
this country—which is to your own benefit indirectly.
OBTAINABLE ALL STORES. Any difficulty in obtaining “ Dunlop ” ffose, kindly drop us a Post Card.
(film ; :
W'/JL THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF A US., Limited,
*?///// ' Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, and Christchurch (N.Z.)
No. /—Section 1-in. Dunlop Hose.
No. 2— Section J-in. Dunlop Hose.
No. 3 —Section f-in. Dunlop Hose.
No. 4 —Section Dunlop Armoured Hose.
No. S —Section J-in. Dunlop Cotton Hose.
No. 6— Section J-in. Dunlop Cotton Hose.


n _ A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak CABINET CLOCK,
rirst-Class Striking- Movement, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 9d,
17s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pour-Bottle EGG CRUET
and SPOONS.
Pure Silver-Plated, 255.
Other Styles, 20s, 21s, 30s, 355,
40s.
m
mm
lllllllllll[llllllllllllllllllillllillllUlllllllllllllli
lIIIIIIIIIISS*=S=SSIIIII
A. SAUNDERS.
Set of CARVERS, Best Sheffield Silver Steel, Secure Handles
(Silver Ferules), in ,Silk-Lined Case, 25s
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 27s 6d, SCs, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cabinet PHOTO FRAME,
Pure Silver-Mounted, 4s Cd
Other Styles, 7s Gd, 10s 6d,
12s Gd, 15s.
Fair Prices,
in a great
many places,
means inferior
qualify
Here it means
careful
thought and
attention, 1
right buying and 1
perfect
satisfaction. 1
This I
establishment is '
pre-eminent
for the reliable j
quality of its
goods.
A. SAUNDERS.
m
'A ~
&
%
lit-}
Birj
X3C
■few
M
A
„ . .A. SAUNDERS.
f„ii enu i ne J Art . 9 arlton China CHEESE DISH, Beauti-
fully Hand-painted Floral Design, 11 x 8 15s fid
Similar Styles, Size 11 x 8, 12 s ed-
.With the aid of
our Handsomely-
Illustrated
Catalogue
you can buy
in your own
home,
with as much
satisfaction as
though you
were
here in person.
A request will
bring you our
Catalogue to
y-our address,
Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak SMOKERS’ CABINET,
Pure Silver-Plated Mounts,
Roller Top, £2.
Other Styles, 30s, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cherub Silver-Backed
MIRROR. 20s.
Dther Styles, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doe Skin TOBACCO POUCH,
Pure Silver Shield,
Best Rubber Lining’, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 6s Oil,
7s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Military
HAIR BRUS' t
Long Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s Od 12s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
Eight-Day Marblette STRIKING CLOCK, Strikes Hours and Halves
Accurate Timekeeper, Handsome Case, 40s.
Other Styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 32s 6d, 355, 40s, 455, 50s
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH,
Pure Silver-Mounted,
Extra Long Bristles, 20s.
Others, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Leather Wallet
POCKET BOOK,
Fitted with every convenience, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value CLOTH or
HAT BRUSH,
Pure Silver-Mounted,
Extra Long Bristles, 5s 6d.
s
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak SUGAR BASIN,
China Lined,
Pure Silver-Plated, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 17s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
Amber-Tinted Glass, 17s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,12s 6d,
15s 6d, 20s.
ns§^
9m
:
i
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Polished Crocodile LEATHER PURSES
Heavy Pure Silver Mounts and Lock, 15s 6d. Other
Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s Cd
17s 6d. Gold Mounted, 30s, 355, 37s 6d, 40s, 455, 50s.’
A. SAUNDERS.
HONEY JAR,
Pure Silver-Plated on
Nickel Silver, Cut Glass, 255.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 15s,
30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD or OPERA GLASSES,
Very Powerful,
Case and Sling, £2.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, los, 20s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE CASE,
Crocodile Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts, 20s
Other Styles, 3s 6d, 6s 6d,
8s 6d, 10s Od, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-Plated
Handsomely Embossed, £2. Other
30s, 355, 40s.
on Nickel Silver,
Styles, 20s, 255,
vmim
mmm
\iS
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, KNIFE and
TOAST RACK COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-Plated, 20s.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s TRAVELLING COMPANION,
Hair Brush, Mirror, and Comb, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s
First-Class Gilt
BEDROOM CLOCK,
on Onyx Base, £2.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255.
A. SAUNDEItS.
CUCKOO CLOCK,
Strikes Hours and Halves,
Light or Dark Case, 20s.
A.
BREAD BOARD and
be used as a Waiter,
30s, 355, 40s.
SAUNDERS.
I” lof’ oh? S nTT P)ated ’ can
10s. Other Styles, 21s, 255,
is*.
. A. SAUNDERS.
»imJ e • Sll '; er Mountcf l Seymour System French BRIAR
6d, P 2Os 1 26s a Bte 6d ' ° ther Styks ’ 10s 6d ’ 12s 6d ’ 15s
■
m
;
mF
►2*i
WSvSwuC
S>j»sB*Ss»:
se
A. SAUNDERS.
Class FLOWER VASE,
Eure Silver-Mounted. ’
Is 6d each.
Others, 2s, 2s 6d.
(Postage Extra.)
A- SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
H-VERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN,
george-street,
Opposite
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


*
Hi
Snk*
i
1'
i
✓
a*
£
*355
m
art
m
m
w.#;
:#«A
a
>d*
■*t*
AL&K SATx
! \
CAMEO
ARE
ALWA
HIGHCLAS


HP
«■!
m
u
i
m
« • ■
-v4H
Mfe
B
I
is*
m
1
%
k
• ■'
0
A
Drop a Post Card to m
General Passenger <O, Freights Ag'ent, Victorian Railways,
and Re will give you all particulars and assist you with your arrangements.
Melb.


<
A
WT\
%
r
Sir
1
Wm
c
u
<3
s'j
I
m
%
mm
■
isSSfc
11 J
HI
m
3SS
n
,
H
A-?' ' ,
SirtPll
:
';
k\l
r.
*&»***
■
»
'WNSMte
f
‘ >
V>,-
%
m
a
»;®S
■>a
mm
■*•
foi
Mf
A ' .‘ ■ • *
S 3
mm
Y*i
fe
£g£2
Sg*
!
f~»
Eg
US*:
The mirror of fashion reflects the daintiest Paris and London confections
in our Showrooms. These photographs illustrate examples of our latest
Theatre and Race Wraps, and Exclusive Paris Model Dinner and Race FrocKs.
Our Spring and Summer Fashions specially illustrated and faithful
reproductions of our stock will be sent Post Free to any Address
in Australasia or the East.


y
■
**>-■
-S'
‘*'A.
S 5
:x-.
IN THE HOT SUMMER-TIME * *
WHEN FLIES ARE SWARMING IN THE ROOMS,
INSECTIBANE
should be dusted on the window and
pidture frames or diffused in the air, witb
CLOSED DOORS, when ....
No other Insert Powder possesses the qualities which
render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious.
EVERY FLY WILL FALL DEAD.
Sold Everywhere.
Proprietors ROCKE, TOMPSITT (Sb CO.
BLOWERS for diffusing the Powder can be
purchased from all Vendors of INSECTIBANE.
Wholesale ELLIOTT BROS., LTD.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
>—T'llK-s
Colonial Mutual liife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices ■ • 105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 93,161-assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
™ R Queensland Rational Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,226 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.—J as. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W. Y. RALSTON.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns. Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised ... .: .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. \ 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) J £370,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £17,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Rsq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
rj A JV I Accident and Guarantee
U UE.MIV Co. L td. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Olynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED*
(Established 1579.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Agents Wanted.
C. Stratmann’s *
FINE....
Made on tiie
Premises
CHOCOLATES **
SWEETHEATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
S YDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Boom.
ħ
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
B’ST.
Sola
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. SI76J 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - « - 2/6
r
L
“ Is superior even to meat and of
Inestimable value as a food.”
—Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
“ A diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL &
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,"
The .Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
3XT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt. Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
Prom SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 28th OCTOBER.
*PBINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 25th NOVEMBER.
*PRINZ SIGISMUND, 3300 tons.. 23rd DECEMBER.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
ril Try It .*
The Only Certain
Moustache Produetr.
ggpillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part.of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
80LK AQKNTS.
Tht Remit*
CRAIG 4, AITKEiM, N.S.W. Barber's Supplj
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYOWEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
h
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about
3rd NOVEMBER,
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC,
and MEDIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets , Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd,,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
♦Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
QC B A.3\ric S.S. Co. -A.. anti A.. LIWB.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SONOMA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
pagr- CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO.. Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
ISLAND
h
CRUISES
Do you know what charming
trips ,can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific ? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about Ten Shillings a Day —that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 19 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes
of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
$5-
❖
BIIaI»S
discounted.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nvr.s.w.
(|)ont it pete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J XiIMITISD.
: Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
i Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 176,812 10 0
Reserve FuKD(lnvested in Government Stock) 65,000 0 0
£698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 26 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
total Capital
.. £2,000,000
GANADSAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
AORANCI Sails Monday, Oct. 30
THE BEST ROUTE TO AMERICA
AND ENGLAND.
The Most Attractive Round the
World Route.
ALL THE SCENIC POINTS OF INTERERT IN AMERICA
ARE REACHED.
SIX PORTS OF CALL on the PACIFIC.
NEXT SAILINGS— .
Nov. 27, Dec. 25, Jan. 22.
KF write FOR PARTICULARS,
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin
and card tricks), The Surprise Packet, or Nerve
Strengthener (a good joke), the Wizard Fish
(gives the definition of your character—very
superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. H. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
™ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
Sblpplng,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Austral!an,
Vlotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, ,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
y
S.S. Innamincka, Oct. 27,
Connecting- with
S.S. Grantala (from Mel-
' bourne), November 1.
S.S. Marloo, November 3.
BRISBANE, 'V
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Wollowra, October 28.
S.S. Innamincka, Nov, 4.
Uest and Cheapest Ho ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritime^
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government., calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
POUT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Cmna,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters ineslii
the passengers for London and give them every assistance •
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Officer
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“e. and a.” line.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S7 CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comtor and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
81’. KILDA.
r pHE Largest and besr-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
MU*
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
%A#IMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St,
ww Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
THE LAST OF SIX


According to the cable the Marquis of
Ripon wants to know, apropos the proposed
Colonial Conference, “ what would happen if the
redoubtable Mr. Seddon was found dancing on the
stomach of the Government on the subject of
Chinese labor ? ” It would depend how long he
had been dancing on the stomach before he was
“ found.” If he had been on the stomach for any
length of time it would be a manslaughter case.
Fine points of law have been cropping up
in Adelaide, The coroner occupied himself during
the retirement of the jury in a suspicious case by
giving a witness two months for prevarication ;
but the sentence was remitted as soon as the
jury came back with a verdict which resulted
in the committal of the witness on another
charge. Judge Gordon has been remand-
ing two convicted prisoners from day to' day
to see if they would reveal the whereabouts of
stolen property —one of them being released under
the First Offenders’ Act when he had finished
revealing. A man in prison for obtaining goods
by false pretences was brought up to answer
a further charge of forging the document by
which he obtained the goods. Paris Nesbit, K.C.,
defending him, pleaded the old technical “autre-
fois convict,” and then proposed to call as a
witness Judge Homburg, who sentenced the
prisoner. Judge Gordon refused to allow this,
and a violent constitutional question about the
right to call a Judge as a witness, and about the
pomp and dignity of the bench generally, 'broke
loose and rushed like an excited dog all over the
premises.
A Vic. correspondent : —
Vic. railways have again extended the “lengths” of
line to be kept in repair by each gang of repairers. This
is the second increase in about two years. Originally,
the “lengths” were about five miles. The first addition
made them seven. Now they are 10. Four men now consti-
tute a gang, instead of three, however. But white-
collared, white-cuffed pen-officers, who never “packed”
a sleeper or drove a dog-spike in their lives, are piling a
lot of useless work on to the gangs —“ tittivating ” the
cuttings and banks, “chipping” fancy desigrns about the
earthworks, and doing “extra” jobs which formerly
“ special ” gangs were employed at. Meanwhile, speed
of trains is increasing, and locomotives and trains are
becoming heavier. Some early morning, cabs will be seen
wildly rushing to and from the Melbourne daily news-
paper offices. They will be collecting the entire report-
ing strength to go out and “ do ” one of the biggest things
in railway accidents yet known in Victoria,
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any ease of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of all chemists. PARIS MEDICINE CO., Temple
Chambers, London, E.C. England.*
From a new book, the “ Soul of London
In general, the Londoner has lost all power of connected
conversation, and almost all power of connected thought.
. . . As a general rule, London limits itself to : “ Did you
see that extraordinary case in the So-and-so to-day?”
. . . “ Have you read Such-and-sudh a novel ? Seen such
a play ? Or such a picture show ? ” and it comments,
“ Rotten, I think.”
- R
u
&
w
K
***
CCOMCONBfyS
ĥ
Line
juice
h
ĥ
ħ
agents:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.
J. Connell & Co.,
Sydney.
0. Cohen & Co.,
Newcastle
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d postal. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, mew enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to DAnce, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is'. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established SO Yeats.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FRO/1 THIS A DVT. (
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking. >
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, ,2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Sd.
Secret History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted..
Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 25.-
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs,'ls 3d'post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its. Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post. paid. MooEe’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 -pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted.. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannax’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, HeptaMeron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each: posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is > post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. 'New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A'Modern Siren,- Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
n
m
mm
■hhhi
mMm
fci,?« $ < i
%
:£*?*s& 4§w-
s _
■
I
. :' ; V ;';.<
■
I
1
UJ
HERE
We Cure Men to Stay Cured for Good.
Read MR. VIDLER’S Testimony.
“ Messrs. Freeman and Wallace —
«/ have been under your treatment for some considerable time for the cure of a
General Weakened Condition closely allied to Debility. For some time previous to my
consulting you I had not been well, always having poor health, never at any time being
what may be termed strong, in following my usual work I never took the interest in it
that a man physically and mentally healthy should take. After being under your treat-
ment for some weeks I noticed an improvement which continues up to the present day,
and i have no hesitation in affirming that / AM ENTIRELY CURED OF THE CONDITION OF
VITAL WEAKNESS which afflicted me, and which only twelve months ago threatened me
me with permanent physical ruin. I have much pleasure in giving you this testimony,
accompanied by my photograph, both of which you are at liberty to publish in the inte-
rests of your profession. I think your skill in the treatment of this form of disease is
such that it cannot receive too great an advertisement.
I am, dear Sirs,
Faithfully yours,
Crookwell, N.S.W., October 12th, ’05.” G. E. VIDLER.
is PROOF that
Here is a testimony from a man we have cured beyond all doubt. Once a physical wreck, now a strong,
robust man, able to take his part in life with the best of them, at one time shadowed by the grave, now stalwart
in strength. His testimony proves he is proud of his return to health, and no doubt his pride is shared by his
Reader ! What ails you ? Can we treat and cure you ? Why not write to us if anything serious afflicts
you ? Surely you must know that an expert Specialist in certain forms of disease excels by reason of study concen-
trated upon one particular class. You know that “ practice makes perfect,” and this is very true when applied to
disease. Unless a man has experience and a thorough knowledge of any disease afflicting the Genito-Urinary
systems of. men, it is utterly wrong to treat them. The Specialists of
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-
MEDICAL
INSTITUTE
undoubtedly excel, and their methods are certainly superior in the treatment and cure of the class of disease above
referred to.
Kane,- the great American Specialist, declares that “ there is no branch of medicine in which absolute
exactness of diagnosis and a thorough understanding of every detail of a case is so essential as in the treatment of
diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs.” '
No man, next to Ricord, the Great Specialist in Diseases of Men, is more qualified to make such an assertion,
for he is one of the greatest medical brains the century has seen. His methods have been successful in hundreds of
cases where medical aid had been obtained, but no benefit had been received.
The Specialists of the Institute desire to point out that they always welcome those cases which have
been treated unsuccessfully and tampered with by Medical men who do not know their business. Pamphlets of
testimonies will be Mailed Free to any applicant who desires to be fully informed as to the nature of his case, and
as to whether he is curable or not. All information or counsel of this character is sent free, and no charge is made
for friendly chats by the Physician-in-Chief, Dr. Richard Wallace, who is registered by Medical Boards
of England, Australia, and America. His great medical treatise, “ Clinical Experiences,” 670 pages,
150 medical plates, the book for sick men, sent post paid to any address. The best book of this or any age.
h
TESTIMONIES. Mr. F. C. PAINE, of Winton, Queensland, writes
“Just a few lines to let you know how I am progressing-. Able to inform you that I am quite myself
again ; I have never felt better, and have quite recovered from my complaint.”
Mr. T. R. R , of Swan Bay, writes: — * •- ;
“ A line to tell you that I have received your letter and parcels of remedies, and I must say that the action
of my heart has improved wonderfully from their use, and I feel certain I will be quite well again soon.”
Mr. JOSEPH BLAIR, of Terang, Victoria, writes __
“I am extremely grateful for the good your skill has done for me. You are the first Medical Men who'
know anything of my complaint. My dealings with you satisfy me of your skill as Specialists.”
These are only a few of sjores that we receive continuously.
We have several expert Specialists, including - Four Legally Qualified Men, who are paid high salaries
in order to treat you. Come personally if you can ;if you cannot call, write fully the nature and
symptoms of your ailment; a quick and pertain cure iis always possible by our perfect Correspondence
System.' A man may be treated'in ni's own house by this method as well as if he visited the
Specialists personally. We make no charg e for friendly talks. Read the testimonies here published.
They prove our skill and honesty, and guarantee our reliability in intricate medical cases.
m FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney and at Melbourne
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute; Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., Physician-in-Chief;
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Department of Women and Children.


THE.
Speediest Cure
It Gets There Quickest
%
■J*
Ji
<Ph
ALL CHEMISTS, Is; FOUR
TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2s 6d.
INSIST UPON
“FISHER’S”
Kidney Ailments.
When you have any SUSPICION that your
KIDNEYS are GETTING BAD, take
“FISHER’S” PHOSPHERIHE
TO CLEANSE AND STRENGTHEN THEM.
It is invaluable as an agent to ward off Diabetes,
Bright’s Disease, and Backache.
Thousands of people take an occasional dose of
“ FISHER $” PHOSPHERINE
to keep their kidneys in perfect order, and up to
the mark.
A most WONDERFUL MEDICINE, easy to
take, absolutely superseding awkward pills and
heavy drugs.
Many people as a precaution against kidney and
bladder troubles take it in their whisky or in wine.
Ten Drops Make a Dose.
A MOST EFFICIENT DOCTOR,
AT SMALL COST.
POST FREE from
FISHER & COMPANY, 337 George St., Sydney.
TO YOU FREE!
A Solid Silver Watch.
a
/
v
%
TO introduce our Catalogue into as many homes as
possible, we have decided to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons of either sex who send in the
correct solution of the following puzzle :
OXR WXXCXXS AXE TXE BXXT.
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear witli the watch. We make this condition because
we want our Catalogue to get into the hands of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toys, but Solid
Silver, and Fully Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
ARTHUR PRYME & CO.
A.F. PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
£
/
i
IT’S A . .
CRIME
For any Man or Woman to allow
that Weakness, that Waste of Vital
Nerve Force—which is the Animal
Electricity contained in the body —
to gradually drain away.
STOP THE WASTE!
Repair the leak ere the more serious
consequences ensue. Remember, the
trouble will not right itself without
help. Our method is natural , it
gives back New Life , Vitality
and Strenght where any defect
has shown itself.
Dr. MCLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT
Pours Electricity
into you , and Elec-
tricity is Life. It
has Cured Thous-
ands of cases of
Lame Back, Rheu-
matism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Stiff or
Swollen Joints, Sprains, Varicocele, Insomnia, Indigestion, Constipation,
Senile Decay, Weakness, Loss op Vital Power, etc., and all ailments
peculiar to \Voryiett, Give it a trial / you will never regret it.
14 Rockwall Crescent,
Potts Point, SYDNEY.
Gentlemen,—Having- used your Electric
Belt for about six months, it gives me
great pleasure to inform y)u that I have
derived far better results from It than I
expectc d. It has indeed made life worth
living.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CEDDES.
Te Awamutu, N.Z.
Dear Sirs,—l am very glad to be able to
say I have derived great benefit from your
Belt for Lumbago and Weak Back. Before
having the Belt I could scarcely lift any*
thing heavy for months, but after three
months’ perseverance In its use my back
has got quite strong again and I believe
the Belt to be what you claim for it.
Your 3 faithfully, D. FRY.
WRITE TO-DAY for our FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
THIS BOOK is published for Free Distribution to those interested in the
development of Vigorous Health in Men and Women. It contains 96
pages, profusely illustrated, describing our Method of Treatment and show-
ing our Appliances. Sent Fiee and Post Paid on request. Also , we offer
FREE ADVICE AND CONSULTATION
to anyone calling at our offices, which are Open Every Week-Day between
the Hours of 9 a.m. and 8.30 p.m. If unable to Call, we will advise you—
FREE—in your own home. . . . WRITE OR CALL TO-DAY.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
lOOW . Market StSydney ,
And at 167 E. SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
90 WILLIAM STREET, PERTH, W.A.
54 WILLIS STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
William Charles Crawford
Harry Joseph Crawford
PROTOBE-N
FIGS
in 5 and lO pound Boxes.
FINEST FRUIT in the WORLD.
i
m
Qwd
NICOLE—MS-
UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPHONES
TWO SPECIAL
instruments
1
The Colonial, alld
The New Standard,
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING, AGENT. 316 George St
SYDNEY.
“CLOTN€S
... OF ...
QUALITY”
From the designing of the pattern
To the adjusting of a button,
London Tailoring is the product
Of system intelligently applied
By Tailors who have developed
A Talent for the Fashioning
Of Distinctive and Individual
Garments for Men.
h
A THOUSAND PATTERNS.
Selection with simple Measure-
v ment Forms Posted FREE.
ĥ
LONDON TAILORING DEPOT,
OPPOSITE G.P.O.
ONLY ADDRESS IN STATES.
MELBOURNE
RUPTURED MEN and WDMEN.
There is just one real,
infallible cure for your
Rupture—one cure that
knows NO failure —one
cure that gives relief in
one minute and then
settles down to cure you
permanently that is
the Dr. J. A. Sherman
Method of Curing
Rupture.
The Sherman Method
of Curing Rupture.
When your money and patience are almost worn out
on useless treatments, try the Sherman Cure.
It cures any case so-called hopeless or otherwise,
without respect to age, sex, or term of Rupture.
SEND FOR
TWO FREE
BOOKS
Write your name and address here, post to me,
and I will send you the two books by return mail.
Name
Address
“ A Warning and
Guide to the
Ruptured,”
“ Indisputable
Testimony.”
CONSULTATIONS FREE.
HOURS —Daily (Sundays excepted) from 10 a.m. to 12.30, 2.30 p.m. to 5.30
EXTRA HOURS—Tuesday and Friday Evenings, from 7.30 to 9. Saturdays, 10 a.
12.30 noon.
p.m.
m. to
A. W. MARTIN,
Sole Controller for Australasia,
St. Aubyns, 82 Hunter=st., Sydney.
fter the New Year Mr. Martin will visit the large centres in N.S.W.
A.N.A.
Exhibition of Australian
Manufactures Products
AGRICULTURAL GROUNDS, DECEMBER NEXT.
The true combination
of Capital and Labor.
ħ
The golden opportunity of demonstrating
what Australian Workmen can produce*
io arrange for space with
Organising Secretary. M. A. MARTIN, General Secretary.
134 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


The Presbyterian Messenger, on behalf
of one of the churches at any rate, puts its foot
down heavily on the Stinking Fish party. In its
October number it says :
Our people are not opposed to immigration, and neither
by law nor in public meeting have they given utterance
to any such folly. We are strongly opposed to an influx
of pauper immigration such as would create in the cities
of this land an East End of sweating abominations ; but
we are ready to extend the most cordial welcome to
persons whose experience and resources constitute them
a real gain to any country. We insist that Britain is rich
enough to maintain her own paupers ; and we declare
that further Asiatic influx is not for the benefit of the
community, either morally or financially, hut outside of
these restrictions the broad acres of Australia are available
to all Europeans who care to cast in their lot with us.
The attendants around the Federal
Legislature can name visitors’ States on sight.
Tasmanian visitors look sleepy, and seem as
if their thoughts were fixed on potatoes, or on
some similar violent topic. South Australians are
gaunt and dismal, with a decided Wesleyan aspect
when regarded from the south-east. Queens-
landers are mostly vigorous fellows—men with the
vim of the tropics in their veins. The New South
Welsher is a distinct type. Any stranger who
talks in a domineering, self-important fashion is
indexed as a Sydneyite who has been struck by
the inferiority of Melbourne. And the index
doesn’t err more than once in a hundred times
either. Next to the patronising party from the
Smother State, visitors from Maoriland are re-
garded by the door-keepers with most dislike.
The older attendants always plant when they see
a fragment of greenstone coming up the steps.
Such visitors invariably descant on the glories of
Mr. Seddon, and leave a broad trail of national
self-satisfaction all over the premises. But there
is this to be said for them—there are no Stinking
Fishermen among them. Not one of them presents
the slightest resemblance to Preacher Fitcliett.
The Maorilander waves his hand proudly, and
states that his country is “pie,” and that it is
going to remain so.
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
M ORRIS’S^
"imperial." Ifmpeual
h
* *
©intntent
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-
eheraiats ft stores. Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melbi
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
•* They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
hh
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
eeparate'y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
(ST* BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
L
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
Is non-heating. One cup contains
more nourishment than 10 cups of
any ordinary cocoa.
Himself Cured.
"TAEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and
~ Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYDITET.
ĥ
TO
THE
Sufferers from Deafness or Hei_ ..''oises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. E. V KEN ON to.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
ħ
FREE for your Name and Address!
OUR CATALOGUE of EDISON TALKING
MACHINES—the best Catalogue of its kind m
N.S.W. We have the Largest Stock, and our Prices
are bedrock American ones.
COT THIS OUT.
Fill in your Name and Address, and we will
send you our Catalogue and List of New
Records.
Name
Address
The EDISON GEM PHONOGRAPH- - - -50 s.
The EDISON STANDARD PHONOGRAPH - - £4
The EDISON HOME PHONOGRAPH - - - £6
RECORDS, Is. 6d. each ; 17s. dozen.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd,, Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (facing Royal Hotel).
% .MM
WALTHAM
Watches
The Americans say
This Beats Creation .
We do not say that, but we do say
Our Three Pounds Diamond
Ring is Remarkable Value .
(SEI (ECO
Hence the Illustration.
5 Pure Diamonds in a Coronet
Setting:, Hand Made, 18ct. Cold,
and the band of the Ring: 18ct.
or 22ct. Practically Pure Gold.
L. X. FLEGELTAUB,
Diamond Merchant and CclXsmith,
Waltham Watch Expert,
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY, N S W.
Post Frff. Evrrywukrk.
Better than ever—
the best watches in
the world. Behind
them are half a
century of high
reputation and a
strong guarantee,
good for all time.
This
Trade
Mark
&
AERTEX
fePNDO^
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM dfc CO .
75 King Street, Sydney.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘Stockport Remedy’
for Coughs and Colds. Of 38 years’ proven efficacy.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,; The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘Stockport Remedy’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 38 years’ proven efficacy,
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &c.
COAGULINE.
Transparent Cement
for broken articles.
‘LINUM CARTHARTICUM PILLS’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
h
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free c f charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about thi < marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
packasre of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Wi. ite to-day. Address—
?ro*f. R. H. BARRADEN, 89 Pitt St., Sydney-
ĥ
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corpore
Sa.no.” Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN. The following- subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varicocele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for sufferers to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising-
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation
WRITE TO-DAY.
SURGEON LANGSTON, "££*•
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph .
MELBOURNE
V
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s •
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
I
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
ihe sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge,passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co. , 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne^
ħ
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
FILLS
Is the Great .English (Jure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLA [NTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines,
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during- their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co , 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
OS
Superior
to
AN Others .
J~}je Xarjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benoer’s admirable
preparation.”
Z’Jje British Jtfedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food iias by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
COLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
SE
w
FOOD
For INFANTS
INVALIDS
and ike
AGED.
Benqer’s fooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, ftc. everywhere.


Perspiration and Dust,
so disagreeable, yet so common in hot
weather, can easily be removed by using
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Toilet Soap.
A pleasantly perfumed pure antiseptic
9oap which can be used for all toilet
purposes and as a preventive of conta-
gion. It contains 10% Crystal Carbolic,
and so has a healthy action on the skin,
and assists to improve the complexion.
Calvert’s Carbolic Ointment
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients
to cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed
skin, piles, cuts, burns, insect bites, &C.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
L. England.
THE LONDON TREATMENT
FOR TIIE
Qrug Addiction
EVERYONE interested in the work of
Reclaiming Victims of DRINK or
DRUG HABIT should be familiar with the
Treatment used at the London Institute.
Full particulars sent Post Free on appli-
cation. Address —
H. W. BUTTREY,
London Institute, Box 121, Masterton,
New Zealand.
WILL ANDRADE -» ROOKS
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. llorse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d, Ail Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish,
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINGARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLINC CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with ful directions, 1s; posted 1/3.
I
7 r£t
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring: Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels In
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married,
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Flashlights on Japan, by Dr. Maloney, 6d, post 8d
God and My Neighbor, 9d, post Is. Tom Mann on
Socialism, 3d, post 4d. Shanty Entertainment, Is.
Botiiner’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwivks’ Handpook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, ls3d. New Thicks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, ls6d. Stolen Sweets, ls6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover's Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for. Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Age of Reason, Is 3d. Ingf.rsoll’s Works, 6d, Is.
2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor, Is.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
MANNING’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
The most complete work ever published. 1905 Edition. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding, breaking,
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases—their causes, how to know them and
how to cure'them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 10/6.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
B.S
Medicated
TABLETS.
I
If not obtainable, write, enclosing' stamps, to
THE GREAT NEW ZEALAND CURE
For Coughs, Colds, Catarrh, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption.
Recommended by the N.Z. Health Department, and
acknowledged hy Specialists to be the Greatest Lung
Food of the day. Sold by Chemists at 1/6 and 2/6 tin.
BJORNSTAD & STACEY, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE) MEANS OF SELF-CURE, Will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested. _ ___
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREE TO MEN UNTIL CURED
V
R
IIU""'
DR. AUSTIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
Is sold on this Basis to Men and
Women everywhere : Not to he
paid for until the Cure is Complete.
The Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only remedy in the
world which can be sold on such a plan. It is the only
never-failing cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back
and Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder and Stomach
Troubles ; in fact, all Chronic Diseases of Men and
Women. It cures after all other remedies have failed.
Why? Because it restores nerve life, animal vitality,
warmth and vigor to all the weakened parts.
Drugs only Stimulate, Dr. Austin’s
Electric Belt gives Lasting Strength.
Its Cures are Permanent.
PA.Y WHBKT CURED.
You pay only when cured, if you can offer reasonable security. Failure to cure costs you nothing. The
Dr. Austin Belt is warranted on a bond of £lOOO to give a stronger current, last longer, and to rare quicker
than any other electric body appliance made. We make no charge for advice, written or personal.
p„- n o _-I. WiLe for our Beautifully-Illustrated Medical Book and Letters from Cured Patients,
rres soon- sent (sealed) FRE.E- WRITE TO-DAY, and you will be satisfied with the result.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.. Dept- M -
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
N.B.—New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
Beautiful Home Decorations
u
easily and economically obtained by the. most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOMW” FLOOR STAINS Stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on i loors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
«BAPOLiar”AIiUMBIJM ENAJIEI. gives unsightly P pes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silvei finish,
in or outdoors. Simply hrash i t on.
JAPANESE GOLD PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purnoaeo
economical and satisfactory. , .
.For sale l>v all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in tills climate lor over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “BAPOLIN" BATH
f
V
A DIES • A TTENTION !! !
A PERFECT COMPLEXION BEAUT IFIER AND
REMOVER OF WRINKLES.
The Only ELECTRIC MASSAGE ROLLER (patented by Dr. John Wilson Gibbks)
with the World-Famous EPIDERMIA CREAM, The Wonderful Skin
Demulcent, applied in conjunction to specially facilitate the Massage.
All ladies who have given this a trial are delighted with the result. Rollers supplied
at—Silver, 15/6 : Cold, 18/6 ; Epidermia Cream at 2/6—posted free to all States. Apply
only at THE AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY Ltd., 177 LIVERPOOL ST.,
SYDNEY. Beware ok All Imitations and Fraudulent Rollers.
THE
‘PLUM’
T HB
THE
‘PLUM’
GENTLEMEN, —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZGR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
/Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part op the World.
£PF“Please add Gd. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
SOLE agents, CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George StSYDNEY
World’s Greatest Dwelling Architects.
SEND 2s. P.O. Order for our Big 4s. Book, “Modern Homes,” containing 170 Designs of Modern Dwellings,
built in wood, stone, brick, half wood and half stone and cement stone —showing views and floor plans and
estimated cost of each house. The largest Architectural Publication in the world. It is our business to make
plans and specifications for dwellings, business and public buildings of all kinds. Our 23 years of experience in
planning houses enables us to make plans accurately for building in any part of the world. The house shown
below has been built over 800 times for £240. We will mail you, post paid, Full Blue Print Working
Plans and Specifications, complete for £2.
r-1. XTtcH E
IS * \A
J i?ec/innE
“Ap; is, 15 6
©>A&L°Q
W&aiS
rA7Z>fl
10. n
All rooms open into hall
roith grille arches between
dining room, parlor and
. hall.
A
rtm
rm
rra
Uf
ft
This Plan can he Reversed to Sait Any Location.
3>ED
BED6>!°At
Ts)ev~®°M:
M «JS
'iSccp/fD n?£ci
Three comfortable cham-
bers, Snd floor.
All you have to do is to send 2s. for the book, “ Modern Homes,” which contains all information about
building'a home. Write for our new book, ‘ ‘ Public Buildings,” which contains designs and plans of Schools,
Churches, Stores, Gaols, Office and Public Building-s of all kinds and descriptions. It also contains a series of
designs in high-priced dwellings, costing above £-2000. This book has just been issued, and contains the latest
and most practical designs in business buildings and fine dwellings. We send this, post paid, for only 4s.
Established
1882.
J. H. DAVERMAN & SON, Architects,
Grand Rapids, Mich.
Porter Block.
Subscribe for ART IN ARCHITECTURE, a monthly publication, 4s. per year, devoted to artistic homes and
home furnishings. J. H. DAVERMAN & SON, Publishers.
OSTRICH PLUMES
From the Famous Farms
of South Africa
h
ĥ
ħ
Black, White,
Cream, Natural
or Black tipped
with White.
(15 inches.)
1 0/6 Free.
We give the
Value.
The Feathers we offer you can-
not be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Illustrated Price List Post Free.
m
KUSS2
iM I
Black, White,
Cream, Natural,
or Black and
White mixed.
(18 inches)
I 21/*
As a trimming
nothing can
(qual a goed
Ostrich Feather
in a Lady’s Hat.
They look soft and graceful, therefore
eminently becoming for young and old.
h
Ostrich Tips
From the Farms of South Africa.
Black, White, or Cream,
or Black Tipped with
White (length 10 inches).
3 for 10/-
The best value ever offered in Aus-
tralia. Send Postal Note or Money-
Order payable to John Miller.
Natural Ostrich Boas, 21s. Length, 1J yards.
AN AID TO BEAUTY.
Black, Cream, or Black
tipped with White.
OSTRICH TIPS.
Length, 9 inches.
3 for 6/-
(Six Shillings).-
ĥ
No woman who cares about her appearance can
afford to be indifferent to Ostrich Plumes—an aid
which helps to her attainment of beauty.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Corner Bourke and Swanston Sts.,
Address Letters to Department P.
Melbourne.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
1782
ST
PHOENIX
Assurance Company of London
117 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers).
LTD.
WILLIAM N. FARMER, Manager.


Paris is the City of New Ideas. The French
spectators chafed at the sig'ht of the limit men in handi-
cap races riding slowly round the track and saving all
their energies for the last tremendous burst, so the pro-
moters ruled that every man not on scratch who is passed
by the scratch man before the bell rings, must drop out.
The immediate result of the new rule is that the limit men
go like fiends racing for a drink, and the scratch men
liave-to do likewise to have a hope, and the excitement is
tremendous.
NAVE YOU A
BAD LEG ?
With Wounds that discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen, that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease,
if allowed to continue,will deprive you of the power to walk.
You may have attended various hospitals and had medical
advice and been'told your case is hopeless, or advised to
submit to amputation; but do not, for I can cure you. I
don’t say perhaps, but I will. Because others have failed
it is no reason I should. Send at once for a Box of Albert s
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills, which is a certain cure of
3adLegs,Housemaid’sKnee,UlceratedJoints, Carbuncles,
Bunions, Ringworm, Poisoned Hands, and Insect Bites.
Of all Chemists, Stores, &c. Prepared by ALBERT, 73,
Farringdon Street, London, England. Purchasers should
look fee the Registered Trade Mark of the Grasshopper
911 a green label on each box. (Registered Copyright).
ħ
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building-, Perth.
' Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Ca.ta.log'ue.
!OHN SANDS, 374 George St„ Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
h
MOST of us
have noticed
that our child-
ish impres-
sions, even of
quite trivial
things—a pic-
ture, a scene,
a word re-
main with us
through life.
As with the
mind, so with
I bo d y. The
childish body
is extraordin-
arily suscep-
tible to a hun-
dred ailments
which, if not
cured at the
time, often leave
permanently in-
jurious results.
All childish ail-
ments — rickets,
measles, bron-
chitis,whooping
cough, teething
troubles, eczema
diarrhoea, wast-
ing are best
cured by Scott’s
Emulsion of cod
liver oil with
glycerine and
the hypopkosphites
soda.
of lime
Read this letter from Mr. \V.
Foster, of Carrington Street, West
Wallsend, N. S. W., dated July
26th, 1904 :
“My little boy, James, aged four
years, was a great sufferer from
bronchitis and croup. I obtained
preparations of various kinds, but
he did not receive any lasting bene-
fit. Scott’s Emulsion agreed with
him perfectly, and from the first
dose he obtained relief. In a little
while he was completely cured and
is now a fine healthy boy.”
This power of curing rapidly
and permanently is character-
istic of
Scott’s Emulsion
The explanation is that Scott’s
Emulsion is the onty form of
cod liver oil which is perfectly
digestible, thus enabling the
system to absorb the full value
of the oil, instead of allowing
a large proportion to pass
through and go to waste, as
happens with inferior prepara-
tions. Scott’s Emulsion is
therefore truly economical.
Write to-day for a free sample bottle
(enclosing 4d. for postage and men-
tioning this paper) to Scott & Bowne
1,td.,483,Kent Street, Sydney,N.S.W.
For Skin Tortured Babies
and Best for Tired.
In Warm Baths with
And gentle anointings
with Cuticura Ointment,
the great Skin Cure, and
purest and sweetest of
emollients. It means in-
stant relief and refresh-
ing sleep for tortured,
disfigured, itching, and
burning babies, and rest
for tired, fretted mothers,
when all else fails.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout
the world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris,
5 Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney;
Boston, TI. S. A., Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
2*5?“ Mailed free, u How to Cure Baby Humours.”
Make Money Easily.
THIS MACHINE MADE $12.65 IN ONE DAY.
Small Investment. Quick Profit.
ĥ
WE PROVE IT.
This is the MILLS BAG
PUNCHING MACHINE;
one of our ‘2OO varieties of
coin-operated, money-malt
mg, amusement machines
earning daily large incomes
for their owners.
It does matter whethei
you liveilfTi small town or a
big city, a small investment
will earn you a large, honest
neome without much work
or worry. You only count
the profits. Perfectly legiti-
mate in any part of the world.
Others Make Money Fast.
An American customer in
a small town received our
Bag Puncher at 4 o’clock'one
afternoon, and collected
$12.65 the next morning.
Another collected 39,000
pennies in 13 months. That
means he doubled his money
every 60 days. Just think
what several machines would
do for you.
Why Not You ?
Mills machines often pay
for themselves in ten days—
after that it is all profit.
Nearly everybody patronises
our amusement machines—men, women and children.
Nearly all our coin-operatedina chines can be made
to fit the coin of any country. If you have any sum
of money—62/6 or more—to invest in a sure money-
maker, don’t fail to write to-day for our Booklet
No. 56, “ How to Make Money Fast.” It’s Free.
MILLS NOVELTY CO., It to 23 S. Jefferson St.,
Chicago, U.S.A.
DO YOU WANT
Your cHildren
to grow up
HealtHy and
strong', witH
g'ood teeth and
a line digestion.
Cut out sweets
and give them
all they want
of
PETER’S
The Original
Swiss Milk
CHOCOLATE,
147
The Voice of Nature.
By “Maks.”
Whenever anyone suffers from rheumatism, gout, neuralgia, lumbago, sciatica, backache, blood
disorders, anaemia, indigestion, jaundice,-biliousness, sick headache* general debility, gravel, stone,
bladder disease, or Bright’s Disease, it is but Nature crying aloud for help and saying,- “Your liver is
out of order ! Your kidneys are not doing their work! Restore them to health, or your suffering
cannot cease.” Nature will not be outraged. So long as the urinary and biliary poisons, which cause
the disorders mentioned, remain in the system you must suffer. When the kidneys and liver are
fulfilling actively their appointed functions the poisons which cause the disorders are expelled in a
natural manner, and suffering ceases. !
The kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten or twelve grains
in weight of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly
an ounce. If the', kidneys are working freely and healthily all this solid matter leaves-the body
dissolved in the urine, but if, through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins,
contaminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning, such as
Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Gravel, Stone,
and Bladder Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some
urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning.
If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating
about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore their
vigor, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning will result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made
from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The -liver takes
sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it
to the blood as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble,
into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles which have
lived their life and are useful no longer. .When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from some
form of biliary poisoning, such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Genera
Debility, and Blood Disorders. 1
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys the liver becomes affected in sympathy anti vice
versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of these vital organs
which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s Safe
Cure. Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be
found which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive
search, for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in com-
pounding a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure
exhibits a marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and
liver, and restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it of necessity cures all complaints
due to the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys
and liver naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease.
Cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent, simply because they are natural. [l2
CREAM,
Soap and
Powder.
IN TUBES,
I 4*l 4*l 4* j 4 s I 4* I 4* I 4*
I4*l 4* I 4* I 4* I 4*l 4* I
| | T4*
.w\|o» tßk,V
Sold by all Chemists & Storekeepers.
THE FINEST
BKIN PREPARATIONS
IN THE WORLD.
SOLE
■* AQENTS
t
'O9 V NNVIMHOI
Melbourne
Sydney.
Gambling, Robbery, &c.
“ Homo ” : “ Two Seas,” in adversely criticising
Tatt.’s sweep system (B., 7/9/’06), says “ there is at least
one policeman less in Victoria ” thereby. Well, Victoria
narrowly avoided losing another constable through the
same agency. He drew Sudden Jerk in one of Tatt.’s
Cup sweeps some years ago, and immediately after the
race was run got a wire to say that Sudden Jerk had
won. At the time he was on duty at a suburban street
corner, and had to clutch an adjacent lamp-post for sup-
port. Then, in a dazed condition, he managed to reach
the bar of the Pig and Whistle across the street, so over-
come that all he could do was to hoarsely gasp
“Brandy!” He didn’t drop dead, but for the next few
days he almost wished he had. It turned out he had
been cruelly hoaxed, Sudden Jerk merely chasing the
field in, a bad last. He spent the greater part of the few
pounds he got for a starter in liquid solace for his
wounded feelings.
*****
“Drifter”: About the gambling spirit. I
noticed an excited group of school boys outside a Sydney
public school. A shrill argument was raging, and fearing-
that nose-blood would be shed I went over to arbitrate.
Saw a diminutive youngster with plaintive reluctance
hand over three cigarette cards to another. Then the
game went on. Each boy clutched a handful of the cards
and viewed his neighbor with dark suspicion. They lined
up toeing the kerbstone. At the word “ Go !” each spun
si card across the ,12ft. footpath towards the school wall.
The lucky owner of the one nearest the wall scooped
the pool. They called the game “Cigarette Monte.”
The expression in those kiddies’ eyes would have broken
the heart - of an anti-gambling society.
* * «‘ »
From the annual report of Col. Madley, S.A.
Commissioner of Police “ At one race meeting held in
Adelaide the names of 122 men plying their calling- as
totalisator agents and clerks were supplied to me, but in
no single instance could a conviction have been secured,
because the police are required to prove, among other
things, that these men were working for fee, commission
or reward. Such evidence is not obtainable ; yet it was
evident to. everybody that not one of them was a
philanthropist devoting his time and energy for the
purpose of assisting the public to invest on the totalisator
without the trouble of going to the windows.’’
♦ * * *
“F.”: A letter to Melbourne Age from a self-
satisfied sophist signing himself “Straight Shot” ex-
presses all the dishonesty of all the excuses raised on
behalf of the punting evil in town. He declares that
“ the V.R.O. in the matter of fostering and encouraging-
silver betting has left the tote shops and betting-
clubs in comparative insignificance. To see betting in
sixpences and shillings carried on in its wildest excess one
must visit—hot the city shops or clubs, but the flat and
hill at Flemington, where, at one meeting alone, hun-
dreds of thousands of sixpenny and shilling wagers are
made by people of all ages and both sexes. . . . Wagers
in crowns in the Flemington paddock are more numerous
than in sovereigns, and roaring business is openly done
even in florins and half-crowns with women and children.”
This statement includes a lot of exaggeration in the
figures, and one palpable lie, seeing that women are
very few and children fewer in the paddock at
Flemington, the only small fry that one sees
there being a score or two stable boys of
uncertain age. What is the truth as regards these rival
evils—the racecourse and the town betting-place'? The
racecourse, in itself, is a place of sporting entertainment,
where, as a matter of fact, thousands of people at Cup-
time get nothing but harmless pleasure and fresh air.
Among the thousands of others who gamble, the needy ,
people and reckless fools are vastly outnumbered by the
crowd which takes its losses contentedly and never feels
the gambling-itch of the inveterate punter. Nearly all
of them can well, afford the expense of going to the
races once in a way, or they wouldn’t be there
at all. They would save the expense and punt
in town, if punting were their first consideration.
The vast majority of them attend only the biggest
meetings of the year—many of them ' confine their
interest in racing to the Cup. Thev have no more
sympathy with the average slave of the silver-punt-
ing habit than the casual “ Tatt.” speculator has. Race-
goers of their class are found in France, Germany
and other countries whose Governments vigi-
lantly guard the public against the betting-shop
evil. To represent Flemington, or even a low-class
racecourse, as a snare for sixpenny punters—men, women,
and children—is merely to draw a red herring across the
trail of the unlawful betting shop men. The V.R.C. is
not responsible for the impoverishment of Melbourne’s
poorest and most populous districts. Working men and
women who persistently patronise tote shops, ill-con-
ditioned wasters and sanguine youths in billets who pay
furtive visits to tote agencies and bog - us tobacco shops six
days a week, would not be surely coming to grief if they
got no inducement to bet except on the racecourse.
* * * *
“ A.B.” : Remarks about possible treatment of
future Australian elevens in England (B. 28/8/.’05), should
they be classed as professionals, are timely. The Aus-
tralian who has never been to England has no idea of the
position of the professional athlete in the Cold Country.
A man may rob or embezzle and still retain the esteem of
the public. He may connive at his wife’s frisSiness, and
accept gifts from the co-respondent, and remain in
London society. But the professional athlete,'and all
associated with him, are outcasts, shunned as systemati-
cally as the Italian executioners of the Middle Ages, who
used to live outside the pale in houses painted red. The
professional athlete represents the very lowest caste in
English society. Even such a man as Hackenschmidt
was astonished to find that decent people in Australia
would meet him as a friend. When I visited England a
couple of years back, I met a man on the mailboat—
he wasn’t a very aggravated snob either—who fiercely
contended that novelist H. G. Wells was guilty of gross
presumption in entering the literary profession, seeing-
that his father -was a professional cricketer.
* * *
Motor-bike racing is an exciting business and
full of strange contradictions. Travelling on an ordinary
roadster at anything between 10 and 20 miles an hour a
mail can come to all manner of grief, but when he flies off
a motor-bike travelling at 40 miles an hour, and rebounds
off a picket fence, he mostly gets up unhurt to curse his
luck at having wrecked a va uable machine. Writer was
talking to a Dunlop Tyre man who, while track-racing,
opened out and lifted his speed to over 40 miles an hour,
and running close to the edge of the track, struck the
pickets with his knuckles. For nearly 20.yd. the top of
the picket fence was wrecked, the rider lost all sense of
feeling in his hand, and the machine described half-a-
dozen somersaults in mid-air, and left him on all-fours
on the grass ten' yards away. Same man, riding from
Melbourne to Sydney in a Deoauville car, ran into a
water-way shaped like V. The front wheels struck the
opposite side, the tail end of the car flew up, and his
companion, with his arms spread out as though about to
swim, dived wildly through the atmosphere and disap-
peared. A few minutes later he came running up to see
if the driver, - who was held in the car by the driving wheel,
was dead. He wasn’t. Once H. B. James was. racing
Leyhmann on the Melbourne Exhibition track. James
was on a 2th. p. motor-bike, a mere toy, and Leyhmann
was on a great pacer which soared up to something over
a dozen h.p. James had got the inside running, and to
keep it was his only hope of victory—once that
big, roaring machine got in front on the inside
the race was won. At the last lap Leyhmann
made a supreme effort. He shot past, be cut down
yards in front, but, as he heeled .over and swung his
motor on to the straight, the foot-rest (situated where the
pedal of an ordinary bike is) stuck into the turf at the
edge of the track. The machine sprang skyward, hurled
Leyhmann across the path, then crashed on to the track
and broke into two parts. There wasn’t time to think—
Leyhmann and the two parts of the machine lay right
across the track. James shut off power, stuck his foot
hard on the ground, and shut his eyes. The machine
struck the fence and reared over the heads of the spec-
tators. James plunked on the track in a sitting posi-
tion, and shot along as the engine were attached
to him. Having hardly any clothes left on him, he just
had to sit still and try to look as if he wasn’t there, till
they brought a blanket, or a top-coat, or something
•to wrap round him. It was Leyhmann who brought the
cdat. “ Ilulloa, I thought you were dead,” said James
faintly. “ Not much,” replied Leyhmann. “ You hurry
up and get some clothes and another machine. We’ ve got
to run this thing off again. The people are real in-
terested.’


NO PRIVATE MARKS WITH US.£>
Your boy or your girl toTywroffT"*!
the same fair and courteo with us. Our prices are always the
expert knowledge Is require ™ quality. This absolute certainty of
s ssryrsr ~ ezrs *f rjr? sxrz
D .=.L co^r:.ri m zrxi - -
contented crowd of constant customers.
h
ĥ
A quaint Table Gong this, with Striker and 4 different
toned gongs. In flue Silver-plate. An ornament for
the table, and useful at the same time. Makes a very
good wedding gift, and one unlikely to he duplicated.
The nicely modelled squirrel and bird adds to the
pretty rustic effect and enhances the general appear-
ance. Price £2 10s
For a Wedding, Silver Wedding, or Presentation, this heavy, fluted
4 o’clock Tea Service is particularly suited. The workmanship
is the very best —each piece bears the hall-mark. In short, it is
made for use, and is bound to satisfy. £l3 10s complete.
The “ Scimitar ” Brooch. This is our own
particular design, and can only be had
in our Sydney Store. The Hilt is of strong
9ct. Gold, and is Pearl set. The blade is made of New Zealand
Greenstone, and is hollow ground. The back is of gold for extra
strength, and is rivetted through the blade where the Pearl set
Star appears. Splendid value, £ 1 ss.
ħ
Suppose you wish to. send!
a small token of remem-
brance to some on®' far
away, and yet don’t want
to spend very much. What
better gift than one of
these Sterling Silver Eli am-
elled Top Souvenirs. o£
Sydney ?
We can supply any of the four styles of tops shown in two sizes. The medium Tea
Spoon, 9s 6d ; and the full size one for 13s 6d.
We deliver any article we sell free and safe by post on receipt of remittance.
When cheques are sent by new customers, they must allow time for oollec-
tlon or send a Sydney reference along with cheque. Goods not approved of
can be exchanged if returned promptly and in good order, or we will refund
the full amount paid us. We have confidence in our goods and cannot
make fairer terms than these. You stand
no risk whatsoever.
A very sensible, wide base, double Inkstand,
made of good Silver-plate and complete with
Pen Rack. Bottles have silver-plated covers,
and are let into framework of stand so that the
ink cannot be upset. Has four ball feet, and
decorated border as shown. Our best 255. ink
unquestionably.
Match Boxes in Solid Silver, with solid 9c. Gold
Ornamental Shields and Mounts, form elegant
gifts. We have a range of sizes in plain or fancy
engraved stvles. They are the best boxes made,
the workmanship and finish being perfection.
Prices for the plain styles are 18, 6, 22/6, 25/-, and
for the engraved ones 25/-, 27/6, 30/-.
«y «v**rrrpr
{tonr*
rj^yrxT
MIW
F'R
kTK
km
wM
Solid Silver and Cut-Glass.
The two are happily com-
bined in this extremely
pretty Smelling Salts Bottle.
The bottle is filled with
pungent, refreshing Salts,
and will be found a boon in
the sick-room, theatre or
ballroom. The Salts are
colored by means of a harm-
less coloring matter, in
pretty shades of red and
green, giving the bottle a
rich appearance. Free by
post for 3s 6d.
These are the full size Shoe Lift and Button Hook tn that refined pattern
known as the “ Cherub.” They are of superior make and intended for
service, not the kind that falls to pieces first time of using. Convenient
articles to have on your dressing-table and useful things to give as a gift.
Hooks cost 10s 6d, and the Lifts 12s 6d each.
h
This is a triumph for us, and an unusual chance for you. A fresh, big
delivery of that necessary for Afternoon Teas—Silver-plated Cake Forks.
The best value ever seen in Sydney. Either of the designs shown (both
are smart) in any quantity from one up at Is. each.
Chain Bag’s of Sterling Sil-
ver are all the go now, and
if you would be up-to-date
you must have one of these.
We have them in many
styles and sizes, some as
high as £5 ; but here we
will mention three that
come nearer the general
demand. As shown, in
Sterling Silver, size 2£in. x
3, £1 12s 6d; larger size,
£ll7s 6d ; smaller sizes and
different shape without the
chain and ring, 17s 6d.
Write for Catalogue .
This illustration depicts a range of 3 sizes in one of
our most popular lines of Flower Vases. They are
made of pure Nickel Silver, thickly plated with
Sterling Silver, and are far superior to the ordinary
make of Solid Silver Vase because they are so much
stronger. The bottoms are weighted in order to
prevent the flowers fr.om tipping them over. The
sizes and prices run—sJin., 8s 6d ; 6Jin., 9s 6d;
7|in., 10s 6d.
HEALTH
APPETITE
DIGESTION
STRENGTH
ENERGY
VITALITY
Kutnow’s Powder Fortifies Against Disease.
Disease-Breeding
Uric Acid.
Uric acid is the predisposing cause of Gout,
Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, and Mental De-
spondency.
Uric acid checks the efficient filtering power of
the kidneys, and leads to the development of
Gravel, Stone, Lumbago, Diabetes, and Bright’s
Disease.
Uric acid, again, is one of the chief causes of
constipation, that arch-thief of health.
In short, excessive uric acid is a well-known
blood poisoner, which infects brain, nerves, tissue,
and muscle.
The grandest remedy in the world for kidney
trouble and all uric acid diseases is undoubtedly
Kutnow’s Powder.
The leading physicians of London, Paris, Berlin
and New York have tested .the power of Kutnow’s
Powder as a natural solvent and eliminant of uric
acid.
The result has been a veritable triumph for
Kutnow’s Powder. They not only prescribe it in
their private and hospital practice, but use it
personally as a guard against serious disease.
PROF. F. H. GRIFFIN, M.D., wrote: “I
only wish every soul in the world used Kutnow’s
Powder. They would experience great benefit.”
Kutnow’s Powder is a most delightful, refresh-
ing health nerve-bracing and exhilarating.
It is absolutely free from sugar, pleasant to the
taste, and always gives entire satisfaction. A
nation’s wealth is a nation’s health. Those who
value health take Kutnow’s Powder.
The Loss of Nerve-Power and
the Remedy.
The nerves are connected with all the organs and tissues of the body.
When, therefore, the stomach, liver, kidneys, bowels, and gall bladder are
disordered or diseased the nerves consequently are bound to suffer, and the
brilliant, energetic, shrewd and busy man gradually wanes in mental and
physical capacity. The dyspeptic individual is invariably of an irritable or
nervous nature ; his digestive organs being impaired are gradually depriving
him of nerve-power and laying up a source of trouble and life of misery for
the future. Little do people think when they complain of nervous headache,
neuralgia, restlessness, insomnia, that the trouble arises in the stomach. The
question is how to regain this nerve-power. The answer is by using the one
remedy which is now endorsed and prescribed by all the leading physicians
in both hemispheres, and also most highly praised in the British Medical
Press ; and this remedy is Kutnow’s Powder.
IMPORTANT CAUTION I
All respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder, but there are others who,
for the sake of a little extra profit, will attempt to foist upon you some cheap
imitation of their own. It is well known that these cheap concoctions are
highly dangerous, and in the case of delicate, sensitive persons, capable of
inflicting permanent injury. Kutnow’s Powder is pure, painless, palatable,
free from sugar, and absolutely harmless. See that the fac-simile signature,
“ S. Kutnow and Co., Ld.” and the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung,
or Deer Leap,” are on the carton in which the bottle is packed, and also on
the label on the bottle. This signature and trade mark will alone insure your
obtaining the
Genuine KUTNOW’S POWDER.
PROPRIETORS:
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Braodway, New York.
Frequent Reports of
Success.
A LEADING PRACTITIONER WRITES!
“Columbia Hospital, Chicago, June 10th, 1904.
“ It gives me pleasure to state with what satis-
faction I have used Kutnow’s Powder in my
practice. I find that it is a gentle laxative and
gastric sedative, which overcomes the most dis-
tressing symptoms so often remembered by patients
with so much dread. It soon controls the gastric
distress, keeps up gentle peristalsis and laxity, the
importance of which, surgeons appreciate.
“A. A. O’NEILL, M.D.”
KIDNEY TROUBLE RELIEVED.
“5, Sarsden Buildings, Wigmore St., W.
“ June 17th, 1904.
“For some months past I have suffered very
considerably with my kidneys, and at times the
swellings have been very bad, but I am thankful
to say Kutnow’s Powder has always relieved me,
and by its regular use keeps me in perfect health,
thus justifying every word in your advertisement.
“E. GK STEPHENS.”
REV. CHARLES RHODES WRITES:
“ Florence Cottage, Old Fletton,
“ Peterborough, May 31st, 1904.
“ After a more extended use of Kutnow’s
Powder, I can testify to its efficacy. I have been
taking it for about a month for sluggish liver, and
it has done me more good than anything else I
have tried. It is the least expensive in the end-
“ (Rev.) CHARLES RHODES.”
PERMANENTLY ERADICATES CONSTIPATION.
f4-ro


TATTERSAITS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
NEW ZEALAND CUP, Riccarton, Christchurch, N.Z., November 4 ... 100,000 at 5/2 each.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., November 7 ••• ••• 100,000 at 5/2 & 100,000 at 10/4 each.
MELBOURNE CUP (Special), Flemington, Vic., November 7 ... (drawn morning of race) 100,000 at 5/2 each.
SANDHURST CUP, Bendigo, Vic., November 29 ... ... ... ... 100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4c/. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
True to Nature.
WOLFF’S
IMPORTED..
O*
THE FINEST
PERFUME
IN THE MARKET.
SOLD BY ALL
Chemista and Storekeepers,
SOLE AGENTS.
LOHMANN & Go.,
2 ' ’ ' *
Melbourne & Sydney.
ALWAYS TRU
ĥ
LiHimiiuifiiimimmmiimimmmmmii
‘ ~
i
v m
ħ
h
ALCOCKS TABLES
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
TBCE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OE ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from anv form of Bronchitis Couch w „ .
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Clies't it is invaluable as it effects a Comnlete 0^!^ 688 ’ ° r
SEJWA.RE OP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS.
A Sydney Stock and Share Broker expresses
Gratitude and Appreciation of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
It proved a most effective remedy for a
severe attack, of Bronchitis.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I lately had a severe
attack of Bronchitis, and, acting on the advice of a friend,
obtained a supply of your Bronchitis Cure. lam pleased
to inform you it has proved a most effective remedy,
causing me to feel grateful to you for furnishing such a
valuable medicine to the public. May you meet with the
success you so well deserve. I place this communica-
tion at your service, and remain, Dear Sir, Yours
faithfully, HENRY FRENCH,
Stock and Share Broker, 93 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ASTHMA.
A Five Years case.,
At times very bad indeed.
Quickly and completely Cured by Kearne’s
Bronchitis and Asthma Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —For five or six years I was
troubled with asthma, at times Very bad indeed. 1 was
very ill just after Christmas, so sent to the local chemist
for a bottle of your Bronchitis arid Asthma Cure. I took
the first dose on going to -bed, and was not troubled that
night. I finished the medicine, and have not had a
touch of the asthma since. I tell everyone about it.
•' M. MURRAY.
Postmistress, Pampoolah, Manning River, N.S.W.
HAY ASTHMA.
A Severe Attack Relieved in Ten Minutes
by Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
The Effect was Wonderful.
Mr. W. G. Hearne Dear Sir,—About three weeks ago,
while in the vicinity of musty chaff, I gradually fait
a difficulty to breathe. My nose began to run, and to all
appearances I was developing a severe attack of Bron-
chitis or Asthma. At last I could stand it no longer. I
then tried your Bronchitis Cure, and its effect was
wonderful. In less than ten minutes I was all right
again. Such a result, and so quick, astounded ma.
This is no exaggeration, I am pleased to say.—Yours
truly, S. H. MAYO, Meredith, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA/
A Sydney Resident Suffered for Over Sixty
Tears.
So Bad He Dared Hot Stir.
Relieved in a Few Minutes by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Would Give JBSO for the Same Benefit rather
than Suffer.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Friend,—Chronic Bronchitis I had from birth; and
I am now 66 years old. Some time back I contracted
Asthma, and for months I was so bad that any remedy
that had previously relieved smothering- was of no use to
me. I was so bad that I dared not stir, and spent the
worst night I ever had. When, in a conversation, Mr.
Marsh, J.P., of Balmain, Sydney, kindly told me that a
friend of his was using your Bronchitis Cure, and that it
was good. So my sister bought me a bottle of it, and in
a few minutes after taking the first dose I could breathe a
little. The next day I was better, and kept getting better
every day. To-day lam better than I have been for the
last seven years. I took the medicine as directed, six
bottles, and it. cost pie less than £l. I would give £5O for
the same benefit rather than suffer as I did. Please make
what use of this letter you think fit. If bv so doing it
would only cause one to get rid of this fearful complaint.
—Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM CANHAM,
108 Curtis Road, Balmain, Sydney.
HEARNES BRONOHITIS CORE.
Its Efficacy in chest complaints testified to
by a Grateful Victorian.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in
adding my testimony in praise of your invaluable Bron-
chitis Cure. I have used it for the last three or four years
and its efficacy I have fully proved in common colds’
severe colds, croupy coughs, and other similar chest com-
plaints. I have given it to infants a few weeks old, young-
children and adults. of all ages, and have never known it
to fail in relieving at once, and rapidly effecting a cure
with a few doses!. I have recommended it to many of my
friends, and they have fully proved its wonderful curative
properties. I feel very grateful to you for a chest medi-
cine so valuable, and cheap enough to be available to any-
one. Trusting its present popularity and sales will be
doubled, I am, yours very gratefully,
EDWARD JONES,
Mount Bruno, Mokoan, via Glenrowan, Vic
BRONCHITIS.
An English Lady so ill that the Doctor
held out no hope.
Was given Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and it
effected a complete recovery.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir.—Not long since I had occasion
to visit the old country, and before leaving Melburne pur-
chased a bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, which I took
with me. When I arrived in Leeds I found that my niece,
Miss O. Matthews, was suffering from a very severe attack
of Bronchitis, in fact, she was so bad that the family doctor
held out no hope of her recovery. She was then given
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure according to the direction on
the label, and I am very pleased to say that it effected a
complete cure. E. J. MATTHEWS, ,
c/o Allan & Co., Collins-st., Melbourne.
ASTHMA.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Sir, —I am thankful to say that the medicine you sent
for asthma has had a wonderful effect. I have not taken
all the Bronchitis Cure, as I did not need it ; therefore
I send you my hearty good wishes for your future success.
I myself will, for the benefit of others, make it known to
all I know. lam 73 vears of age.—Yours truly,
JOHN BRAY,
Alliance-street, Clunes, Victoria.
BRONCHO-PNEUMONIA. I
Two Severe Cases cured by One Bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward vyithout
delay another small bottle of your Bronchitis Curb. The
bottle I had from you has cured two of my children, but I
do not feel safe without it in the house. I have also re-
commended it to my friends. I lost a fine little girl, three
years of age, from influenza and Broncho-Pneumonia. I
really believe if I had had your medicine my child would
not have died, for the other two, a boy five years old, and
a baby 8 months old, were suffering exactly in the same
way, and it acted like magic on them ; in' fact, a small
bottleful cured both of them ; so trusting you will forward
it without delay—l am, vours most gratefully,
" (Mrs.) E. D. WARD.
Cassilis, via Swift’s Creek, Gippsland, Vic.
I
A Queensland Sufferer from Bronchitis.
Seventy-two years of age, weak and
Wasted.
........
The Doctor considered it a hopeless case.
Cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr Hearne. Dear Sir, —I beg leave to draw your
attention to a remarkable Cure of Bronchitis, which disease
attacked me last May. It was looked upon by the doctor
as a hopeless case. In such an extremity I naturally
looked about for. something to try.. I thought it a hard
after 72 years’ experience of the ups and downs of
this life, to die in such an inglorious manner ; besides, I
was very poor in flesh, and thin, and this stimulated me
to make an effort for recovery, if only to improve my con-
?> tlon ; . I saw your Bronchitis Cure advertised, and
thought I would give it a trial, so I sent to W. H. Harris,
chemist. Gill-street, Charters Towers, and got a small
bottle of it. I had scarcely finished it when I gave up all
thought of leaving my wife a widow, and hopefully looked
forwarded to many more delightful days of up and downs,
principally downs. The second small bottle caused the
Bronchitis and me to part company, greatly to its regret.
I opine. The third bottle stood me on my legs to receive
the congratulations of my friends.
I have been a resident of Charters Towers for 30 years,
an * gifted with the spirit of good fellowship, have
not the least objection to you making any use of this
testimonial you think proper, as a means of relieving
others similarly situated to myself.
JOHN SHEPHERD,
Queenton, Charters Towers, Queensland.
Believed by one dose of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and cured by two bottles.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony
to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for nine months, and the cough was so dis-
tressingly bad at nights, I was obliged to get up and sit
by the fire. I had medical advice, and tried other
remedies, without avail. I tried yoUrs, and never had a
fit of coughing after taking the first dose, and though I
have had but two bottles, I feel I am a different man, and
the cough has vanished. You may depend upon my
making known the efficacy of your wonderful remedy to
anyone I see afflicted.—Yours faithfully,
JAMES ASTBURY,
Dergholm, Victoria
HEARNES BRONCHITIS CURE-—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
{ SoLr> BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY TOST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch depot offi ce: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


To wash clothes
©
as you would like
SUNLIGHT SOAP
is the soap.
9
WON’T WASH CLOTHES,
BUT WILL CLEAN WELL
METAL AND WOODWORK.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBIi, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipa-
tion, venous obstruction, and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a similar quantity
of hot or cold ivater.
CAUTION
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the proprietor
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on tho Red Centre
Part of the Label.
A Special Representative of
the Australian Press gives
ZAM-BUK GREAT PRAISE.
ME. J. T. McINNES, a well-known
Queensland journalist and explorer,
for many years special news writer
for the Queenslander, and now
attached to the staff of that popular daily
morning newspaper, the Brisbane Daily
Mail, writes to the proprietors of Zam-Buk
the following letter eulogising the healing
virtues of that Great Healing Balm. “I
cannot speak too highly of the efficacy of
Zam-Buk Healing Balm which was the
means of completely curing me of what
might otherwise have proved a troublesome
infirmity. Some six years ago when in the
‘ Gulf Country ’ of Queensland, I had the
misfortune to suffer from a bad attack of
Dengue Fever followed by severe Dysen-
tery which brought about an abdominal
weakness that I came to regard as Hem-
orrhoids or ordinary Piles, and proceeded
to treat myself accordingly. The infirmity,
however, was of an intermittent character,
but when in evidence proved very severe,
whilst the periods of attack varied accord-
ing to the change of climatic conditions
with which I had to contend. Some twelve
months ago I thought it advisable to con-
sult an eminent inter-State medical expert who diagnosed the case .as a prolapse
of the lower bowel, and advised a-costly operation as the surest and safest means
of a speedy cure. Fortunately for me my business arrangements at the time did
not permit of this course, although I had determined to act on the medico’s
advice when a favorable opportunity offered. About this time, however, as luck
would have it, I decided to give Zam-Buk a trial, and with most gratifying results.
Its application proved soothing, its properties strengthening, and after using
three large pots of the preparation, I am pleased to say my health improved, my
bodily comfort was restored, and what promised to be a troublesome complaint
has, lam glad to say, departed, and for ever. You are quite at liberty to pub-
lish this letter if desired, because I think that in the interests suffering
humanity, the value of a simple and economical remedy of this sort cannot
be too generally known.”
m
.m
msm
h
RUB IT IM|
The Widows of Yam.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PATSY FINN was himself an industrious
man, the type of Irishman that almost
inevitably gathers a fortune about him if
circumstances and fates are not wholly adverse,
and who does it without deliberate intention, but
in the exercise of a constitutional diligence and
innate frugality. But Mrs. Patsy was the saving
grace of the Finn family, and its exemplar in
industry. She was a small woman and not a par-
ticularly strong one, being liable to “the sick-
ness,” but she had the energy and enterprise of
the ant and the bee, and delved and carried from
light till dark, never content with acquisition or
conquest. There was plenty of land available
to the residents in the fading township of Yam,
and it was always Mrs. Patsy who took the lead
when she and Patsy plucked up their fences and
planted them further on and out. Eventually their
astonishing fences, comprising all the grades from
rubble wall to chock-and-log, embraced six acres,
and crops were grown for the cows. There being
more crop than the cows could eat, additional
cows were bought, and Mrs. Patsy added to her
labors the task of chasing round in the cold and
early hours, delivering milk and cream to the
neighbors and “gentry.”
The Finns had four young children, short,
sturdy barbarians with pale hair all over their
faces, boys and girls alike, with the voracity of
growing mastiffs, and strenuous as horses. When
Mrs. Patsy and her family essayed a difficult task,
the ground broke up before them, and great rocks
plucked themselves out of their beds and fled.
All the people of Yam gathered their firewood in
Cadden’s paddocks, which were over against the
township. The others were content to carry a
day’s, or at most two days’, allowance at a time,
but Mrs. Patsy and her boys, also her girls,
carried wood indefatigably, and with a provident
regard for rainy days in the years to be. They
piled great stacks in the big back yard, and
ravaged Cadden’s gums with saw and toma-
hawk in quest of more. Mrs. Patsy, staggering
home across the flat under a limb that would have
been a fair burden for a bullock, was a daily spec-
tacle at Yam. If Cadden dared to interfere with
the spoilers there was an Irish row in the
paddocks, mother and children assailing him in
brogue, and squealing with the wrath of free
Britons whose sacred privileges were threatened by
the usurper. For it was the law, according to popu-
lar opinion in Yarn, that residents were justified
in getting away with anything they could lift from
the paddocks, sin and illegality only coming in
with the use of horses.
Finn was a miner, rarely out of a job, and then
for a short time only, Mrs. Patsy being kept
awake of nights with the horror of it if Finn was
not earning. In spite of his wife’s industry,
Finn’s house was the dirtiest in Yam. The house
was a hovel, the yard a bog, and Mrs. Patsy
herself, with wisps of mousey hair hanging over
her smudged face, and a torn petticoat looped up
to her belt, was the untidiest woman in three
districts. All her energies ran to out-door work,
“’Tis divil a penny a clean flure ’r a nate table
’ll bring ye. Mrs. Pollard, ma’am,” was her scorn-
ful reply to the gibes of a neighbor.
When sickness came to Finn’s wife for the last
time, she battled against it with all the stubborn-
ness of her nature; but it was pleurisy in a bad
form, and drove her to her bed, where she pre-
sently went “mad in her mind,” as Patsy put it.
Being left alone, she was found an hour after
grubbing in the mud of the yard with a bairel
stave, under the impression that she was digging
the “praties.” She died that night.
Yam had an astonishing quantity and breed of
widows. “Miners’ disease ’’ and the treacherous
nature of the “country” in the Left Hand and
the Euchre Pack accounted for the quantity ; their
similarity in quality was one of the mysterious
workings of Providence. When Patsy Finn arose
from his lamentations he found his house filled
with widows —great, grim, iron-framed, iron-
grey widows, short stout widows, and small
wizened widows—and in the parlor they were
disputing with venom for the privilege of laying
out Mrs. Finn. There was a tradition, unwritten,
unspoken, and yet widely accepted, that the
woman performing this sacred office for a wife
had something of a lien on the widower.
Mrs. Cody, with one hand thrust under Mrs.
Wilson’s nose, and slapping the palm emphati-
cally with the fingers of the other, repudiated the
latter’s claim in strident dialect, and Mrs.
Wilson, her hands on her fat hips, her face
screwed to a contemptuous grimace, and a pointed
tongue exposed, retorted in insolent pantomime.
“The chake an’ impedence iv yeh !” cried Mrs.
Cody. “You the poor body couldn’t abide fer
th’ consate ’n’ th’ lyin’ tongue ye have—you t’
come here wantin’ to put the hand o’ fri’n’ship on
the corpse ! It’s onchristiao, ma’am.”
Mrs. Ward and Mrs. Knox wore shrilly Orating
at each other in one corner, and Mrs. Berryman
and Mrs. Michie quarrelled across the table, Mrs.
Berryman recalling a time when Mrs. Michie
threw the dead hen at Mrs. Finn in her own
kitchen, and Mrs. Michie reminding Mrs. Berry-
man of what Mrs. Finn had said “ wid her own
lips” to Mrs. B.’s everlasting discredit.
Patsy stood among the widows, his simian face
puckered into an expression of comical distress,
his weeping and wailing suspended for the
moment in the face of this invasion. The widows
gathered about him, each seeking to have her
claim authorised. They protested as one widow.
“ Wasn’t me name the last wor-rd on the lips of
the pore dear Mary Ann ? ” asked Mrs. Michie.
“D’you think she’d lave another creature touch
her corpse if she was alive this moment, Pat
Finn?” cried Mrs. Cody.
“Many’s the time she’s said, poor darling, that
if there was one woman in this world she could
trust it was Fisher Wilson.” Mrs. Wilson had a
fat woman’s readiness in tears, and was shedding
them fluently.
“Cudn’t yez toss fer it?” said Finn, helplessly.
“Thin ’tis to a Proderstan’ ye’d thrust th’ help-
less disased. Patsy Finn, I’m sore disappointed
wid ye, I am.” Mrs. Cody’s reproach was without
bitterness. )
A diversion was created by the discovery of
Mrs. Berryman’s shameful duplicity. While her
neighbors were disputing over the widower, she
had taken possession of the bedroom, and was
already busy upon the mortal remains of Mrs.
Finn. The others streamed in, protesting in shrill
accents, and Patsy returned to his mourning, - He
was sitting at the table, weeping copiously, and
denouncing fate with melancholy curses and
irrefragable logic, when a fresh storm arose in the
bedroom, and presently the widows broke into the
kitchen, pell-mell, and Mrs. Berryman, who led
the invasion, dropped a long', narrow moleskin
bag before the widower, too excited to speak.
“ ’Twas on herself,” spluttered Mrs. Cody, “tied
round the waist iv her.”
The article in question was a roughly-made belt,
and as Patsy lifted it there was heard the cheer-
ful clink of sovereigns. The excitement com-
municated itself to the bereaved. He forgot his
sorrow, and cut his finger in his eagerness to rip
open the belt, and then there poured out on to the
table a stream of gold. To Patsy’s amazed eyes
it looked a deluge, to the widows it was wealth
beyond avarice. There were 204 bright sovereigns
glittering on the board.
“Lord iv hivin, I’m a heiress,” gasped Patsy.
“A man iv money!” murmured Mrs. Michie.
This was the beginning of the hunt. It lasted
many days, and Patrick Finn lived to creep to
his own home in fear and trembling, and
to skulk about like a forbidden dog. As
merely a man, Patsy would have been fair
fame to the widows, but as the heir to Mrs.
’inn’s great savings, he was the most conspicuous
desirable in the district, and the competition for
him was keen, and assumed strange develop-
ments. The widows took possession of the
home, they prepared the deceased for the grave
and superintended the funeral, and for long
after the house was rarely free of one or another
of them. Often the whole drove invaded the
place, each fearing that the other might entrap
the widower by some service that would give
her a superior claim on Finn’s gratitude. The
least enterprising fell out as the pursuit grew
heated and fierce, but five or six remained, to
Patsy’s sore undoing.
Mrs. Berryman scrubbed the house out, and
Mrs. Cody undertook to be a mother to the
orphans. Mrs. Wilson supervised the milking of
the cows. Mrs. Ward prepared Patsy’s meals,
and on the first Sunday morning after the burying
Mrs. Knox sailed into Finn’s kitchen and placed
a newspaper parcel on the “ sofy.”
“What may that be, Mrs. Knox, ma’am?”
queried Patsy suspiciously.
“It’s your washin’, Mr. Finn,” ansvvered the
widow, “an’your mendin’, Mr. Finn. I was in
Friday collectin’ it, it bein’ a real joy to help the
afflicted.”
“’N how much is to pay, Mrs. Knox, ma’am ?”
“Can you ask, Patrick?” said the widow coyly.
“ Would I charge you anythin’ for a small, neigh-
borly attention, an’ you that’s been stricken by the
Loord?” Mrs. Knox had Wesleyan sympathies.
She regarded Patsy with great tenderness, and he
retreated behind the table in trepidation.
Never had his socks been so neatly darned, his
garments so smartly patched, or his go-to-church
shirt so handsomely polished. He regarded these
perfections with keen resentment, tempered by
awe of the bony relict of the late “ Henery ”
Knox, his instinct warning him of, the nefarious
design underlying her kindnesses.
At that moment Mrs. Ward, entering from the
shed with a tub of prepared vegetables, uttered a
snort of disgust at the sight of her rival.
“Good morning, Mrs. Knox,” she said, with
venom ; “ I wonder, with that crowd of kids of
yours, you can find time for gallivantin’ of Bun-
days.”
“An’ I don’t think your affairs ’re as well
tended, Mrs. Ward, that you need go pokin’ your
nose into other people’s,” replied Mrs. Knox,
sharply.
Mrs. Cody entered hastily from an adjoining
room, towing a reluctant, half-washed son ,of
Patsy’s by the ear.
“Sure, a body ’ud think ’twas a chapel wid the
Prodestan’s so thick round on a Sunday mornin’,’
she said, with fine contempt.
Patsy stole along the wall, and escaped through
the parlor. Mrs. Wilson was bearing down on
the house from the north, and Mrs. Berryman
and Mrs. Ward were sailing up smartly from the
south. Patsy fled west,, seeking cover in the bush.
When he reached Cadden’s fence he looked back.
Mrs. Berryman and Mrs. Wilson were coming
after him in company. The widower took refuge
in the sapling plantation, and he dined that day
at the Cattle Yards Inn —an extravagance that
must have turned Mrs. Finn in her grave.
The quest of the widows, became daily more
eager and acrimonious. In its earlier stages there
was some decent effort to maintain a show of
disinterested kindness in the face of Yam, but
the pretence was soon abandoned. Many times
Patsy squared his shoulders, and, “ disguising fair
nature with hard-favored rage,” went straight
home with the intention of clearing his house of
the widows, driving them off with weapons if
need be, but he always faltered at the door. He
could not put his bitter grievance into wdirds, and
he had nothing to complain of but good deeds and
great benefits conferred. His house was now
clean and tidy, his children well-washed and well-
clad, and he had hot meals and creature comforts
he had never known in the days of Mrs. Finn.
Yet, as the competition became keener, Patsy’s
anxieties increased. Coming home from day-shift,
he would hide in the crop or behind the outhouses,
whistling for his son Terry.
“Maybe there’s someone beyant, Terry ?” said
Patsy.
“Wan in th’ kitchen ’n’ wan in the parlor,
dad.”
“Mother iv sorrers, what’ve I done?” wailed
Pat. “ Tell ’em I’m took t’ the ’ospital with a leg
bruck, me son, ” he said. As a result of that •
message the hospital at Yarraman was invaded
by three breathless widows before ten the same
night.
Patsy was seen wandering disconsolately about
Yam at all hours. He was found sleeping in
Cadden’s hay, and one cold night Foster dis-
covered him coiled up in his hen-house, making
the most of a straw nest and a broody fowl.
“There’s wan iv ’em sleepin’ at me house,”
said Pat, piteously. “’Tis. Mrs. Knox. She sez
she’s nursin’ me boy Barty, what’s got the divil a
bit wrong with him, barrin’ a pimple ’r two.”
Foster was so touched that lie, took Finn in,
and loaned him a horse-rug and the kitchen mat.
Mrs. Knox was the worst of the widows. It
was she whom Patsy dreaded the most, and he
arose from his seat with bristling hair and pro-
truding eyes one Sunday evening when she
entered his house, escorting a tall, clerical-looking
stranger. .
“It’s the Rev. Peter Ambey what I told you
of, Patrick,” said Mrs. Knox.
The widower groaned, and his knees quaked
under him. He seemed to be in the act of
swallowing something much too large for him,
and his eyes turned anxiously to the door. Mrs.
Knox smartly assumed a position cutting off
retreat in that direction.
“Most happy,” drawled the Rev. Ambey ;
“ most happy indeed. And how is our ber-rother?”
He smiled a withered smile, and shook Patsy’s
limp hand.
“Mr. Ambey will talk things over with you,
Patrick,” said Mrs. Knox.
“ Where would our dear ber-rother like to have
the ceremony performed ? ” said the parson.
Patsy gulped again, and sank helplessly into a
chair. “ The which is it, sorr ?” he asked, feebly.
“The marriage, to be sure.”
“ The marriage ! Yis, yis, yis ; the marriage,
iv course.” He clawed his jaw with a trembling
!\T L . Wh °’ d be marryin ’’ would y ’ tell
“ i i .i • . . „
Really, this is most extraordinary, Mr. Finn,’
said the Rev. Ambey, raising his brows. “lam
given to understand that you wish to marry this
lady ” . J
Patsy’s eyes went from the clergyman to the
widow. He arose twice and sat down again, his
fingers plucking nervously at his whiskers “Wed
Mrs. Knox, sorr,” he filtered. “ Yis, yis, yis,
yis.” Suddenly he pulled himself together, and
made a bolt for the door; but Mrs. Knox was
ur on him, and her arms were about his neck. She
made it appear that Patrick, in the excess of his
affection, had rushed to embrace her
“ Won’t you tell the good minister when an’
where, Patrick, dear ?” sighed Mrs. Knox.
i • >
ma w» °° ® l6 the garrdln ’
“PnlilH v n-, o.u . ,
Gould you bother with cows at such a
S? W J d ° W P > Sh if d back into. lim
, f r 'V arch reproof,
b wi,L * ? h ” n , in the character of a
gaoler, nevertheless
<> v ~ appealingly to the
parSOn - lm onaisy aloil g iv tinm cows,” he
(Continued on page h 0).


KIDNEY DISEASE MAKES you MISERABLE.
You Cannot be Cheerful if Your Kidneys are 111.
When you think of the great
work the kidneys have to do—how
for 24 hours every day they are fil-
tering the impurities and waste
from the blood—can you wonder
that they so readily break down,
and retain the liquid poisons that
cause backache, rheumatism,
gravel, urinary disorders, heart
trouble, nervousness, sleeplessness,
etc. ? Before you can be perman-
ently cured, these poisons must be
driven out, and the kidneys must
be made well again, so that they
can keep up with their work.
If you have any form of kidney
trouble—backache, rheumatism,
gravel, dizzy spells, urinary dis-
orders —if you are easily upset and
worried —if you never feel rested,
don’t enjoy your food, and can’t <
sleep—if your skin is yellow and
your eyes puffy—don’t hesitate
any longer, but begin at once with
the genuine Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, for every day that
kidney complaint is neglected it
becomes more dangerous.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. 3d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be
posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Are You Impatient and Irritable ?
Are You Weak and Nervous ?
Do You Have Headaches ?
Every Picture
Tells a Story ”
MOTHER and CHILD CURED
or
BACKACHE, HEADACHE, DIZZI-
NESS, AND WEAK KIDNEYS.
12 MONTHS WELL.
Mrs. Louis Smorti, 1 Little Selwyn-street, Moore
Park, this city, says :—“ I can give Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills a real good recommendation to all those
who suffer with weak kidneys. I have proved this
medicine in the case of my little boy, who had very
weak kidneys. Every night he lay in discomfort in a
wet bed, and the secretions were very discolored.
Indications showed that the kidneys were in a very
unhealthy condition. I heard of children having been
cured of this complaint by Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, but did not use them at first; I tried various
other remedies. After a good many failures, a friend
again strongly urged me to try Doan’s Pills. I
resolved that I would give them a trial, and am very
pleased to be able to tell you that they have wrought
a permanent cure. Two boxes were quite sufficient
in his case, and he has been quite well for over a year
now.
“ I might also mention that Doan’s Pills proved
very good in my own case. I suffered with back-
aches, headaches, and giddiness. Some days I could
scarcely get about my work. I used four boxes,
and am quite cured—and cured permanently, for over
a year has passed, and I have had no return of the
ailment.”
: v ''A Vi jtifHb- '’•■:•
Bm«m*
feaoS!
said, half-rising, but Mrs. Knox put him down
again.
“ I shall be at liberty Tuesday afternoon, if
that will suit our dear ber-rother,” said Mr.
Amber, softly.
At that moment the door was dashed open, and
a fourth person bounced into the room. It was
Mrs. Cody, red with indignation, panting with
exertion, but full of fight.
“ Nice goin’s on ! ” she said ; “ nice goin’s on, I
don’t think. What the divil’s that man doin’
here. Mother Knox?” Her voice had risen to
its highest note; she pointed the finger of scorn
at the Reverend Ambey.
Mrs. Knox was pale with rage, and her hands
were curved into claws. “An’ what business is
that of yours, you dirty slattern ? ” she squealed.
“Slattern!” cried Mrs. Cody. “Slattern!
slattern, is it ? ” She dashed at Mrs. Knox.
The Rev. Ambey intervened, and Mrs. Cody
tore his umbrella from his grasp, and beat it
about his head, driving him to the wall. Mrs.
Knox took her in the rear, twisting her talons in
her hair, and then the two went at it like gigantic
cats. Patsy saw the tempest of hair and dra-
peries go down on top of the clergyman, and then
he fled out into the night.
Finn was not seen again at Yam for three
days. Acting on information received, the
widows made an almost simultaneous descent
upon his, home on the fourth morning. They
were met at the door by a little woman about
36—a woman with dense masses of black hair,
eyes almost as black, and smiling lips. The sight of
this stranger disconcerted the widows. They re-
garded her in silence, and there was disapproval
in every eye.
“Good mornin’, ladies,” said the woman softly.
She had a mellow brogue. “Are ye neighbors ov
Misther Finn ?”
“ Then you are Patsy Finn’s housekeeper,” said
Mrs. Knox, who still bore traces of her unfortun-
ate battle with Kitty Cody.
“ An’ what of ut ? ”
“ ’Twon’t be considered decent here, ma’am.”
“Tut, tut, tut,” said the woman cheerfully,
there’s a pity now.”
“ What’s more, as Patsy Finn’s promised wife
I won’t have it! ” cried Mrs. Knox. The other
widows clamored in protest.
The stranger stepped forward and, to the
amazement of the others, gripped Mrs. Knox by
the shoulders and shook her. She shook the long
woman as if she had been a dry rush, quickening
her pace till the widow’s head flopped back and
forward violently, and her false teeth flew into the
air. Then the woman stopped, and when she
■spoke her quiet voice had a convincing tone.
“ Look ut here, ma’am,” she said, “iv ye come
t’ my house, sayin’ what ye’ll have ’n’ what ye
won’t have, I’ll tear that mane little tussock iv
hair from yer head, ’n’ I’ll sthrip ye clane’s a prop
fer the divarsion iv the town, ye she-cormorant, I
will.” Then she threw Mrs. Knox backwards,
and the widow fell ignominiously in a sitting
position, toothless, and with her hair awry and
her best bonnet down over her eye. “As fer the
rest o’ ye,” the woman continued, “ Pm’s dacent
’n’ neighborly a body's lives, but I won’t have my
husband tracked be anny woman, ’n’ Patsy Finn
is his name. Ye’ll oblige me by forgettin’ that.”
“ So you did marry a widow after all, Patsy ?”
said Foster to Finn, a day later.
“’Twas in self-defence I done it,” answered
Finn sadly.
EDWARD DYSON.
In the Judgment Hall.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FROM the gloom of an under-world they
come,
With no ring of steel and no roll of drum ;
But a new glow shines on the grimy cheek,
And a language new do the pale lips speak,
And there is a coming of countless feet
On the line of march in the world’s wide street —
For the cry has gone forth, “ Ho ! Come ye all,
And meet to-day in the Judgment Hall.”
To ears that have long been listening
Is come the call of a gracious Spring ;
To eyes that have long been blankly sealed
Is a nearer vision of things revealed ;
To the spirit that was for ages dumb
The power to utter its need is come ;
Its voice will the lords of the earth appal,
For they, too, come to the Judgment Hall.
The maimed and shamed of the world will meet
The workless hands and the homeless feet;
And they whose, share is a crust and a shed,
And they who have made the earth their bed—
Who have dyed its soil with their precious blood,
Who have borne the ravage of flame and flood;
The marred and scarred of Mammon’s thrall
Will throng to the People’s Judgment Hall.
To you who were given the power supreme,
To mould a new and nobler scheme ;
To succor the weak, and curb the strong,
In sight of many an ancient wrong;
The trust ye bore was a holy thing,
And as the sin is the reckoning,
The sense of the Writing on the Wall
Is known in the People’s Judgment Hall.
On the towering tree that as yet looks firm
Is the mark of the mute, insidious worm ;
Never a woodmen is cunning as he,
To sap the heart of the greenwood tree ;
He knows the shock, and he feels the strain
In every rush of the wind and rain ;
But they only know when the tree shall fall
Who sit in state in the Judgment Hall.
VIO.
A.J.B.
Two Points of View.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE slightly-built, sloping-shouldered
man with the tailor-made pants
furtively under the dray at the contractor
standing on the other side; and, having thus
made sure that the boss was not looking his way,
stole a moment’s respite from his heart-breaking
toil. The man shovelling next to him watched
him from the corner of his eye.
“ Y’better do a bit,” he growled. “ If Burke
spots yer, yer a bird.”
The other straightened himself disdainfully.
“Do a bit,” he echoed. “Good God ! a man may
as well ”
He broke off abruptly, and bent doggedly to his
work again. Through the spokes of the dray-
wheel he had caught a momentary glimpse Of
Burke’s long legs bearing their owner towards
him.
The legs halted behind him, and the sloping-
shouldered man worked with feverish energy, his
head bent low, and his ears listening anxiously to
catch the words he dreaded, yet inwardly half-
hoped for.
Six months ago, he had joined the ranks of the
unemployed, through no particular fault of his
own. The big warehouse, where he had been em-
ployed as a clerk, had decided on retrenchment,
and the sloping-shouldered man had been one of
the retrenched. That was the way of it; and for
six dreary months he had tramped the city and
suburbs seeking that elusive will-o’-the-wisp-
work. Also, for six months, he had been
gradually getting deeper into debt, until, at
length, his credit had been finally stopped. Then
someone had told him of this job.
“ Tell Burke I sent you,” he was told. “There’s
seven bob a day there for anyone that can sling a
shovel and isn’t afraid of work.”
Seven shillings a day. It seemed too good to be
true. Of course, he had never swung a shovel in
his life, but everybody had to learn, and what he
lacked in skill he would make up in energy.
So he reasoned with himself —and with Burke,
when that big and, on the whole, kindly Irish
person expressed doubts about his capabilities; so
the end of it was that Burke gave him a start,
and the man who for months had endured the
trials of a negative purgatory, was introduced to
the agonies of a positive hell.
The building speculator had bought the land
cheap because of its uneven formation, and had
given Burke a contract to level the block of
20 acres, at a fixed, and none too liberal, price per
cubic yard of dirt removed.
So Burke had engaged an army of men and
drays, and-a couple of six-horse ploughs to do the
will of the great man ; and, while it was a fairly
easy thing to get “taken on” at the job, it was
even less trouble to get “put off.” For lounging
about in groups, just clear of the slaving horde
around the drays, was always an anxious-eyed
crew waiting patiently for a chance to chip in.
For six weeks the one-time clerk had stuck
gamely to the work—his soft hands blistered, his
back and limbs aching with the unaccustomed
strain. Only the thought of his wife and
children and his desire to falsify the contemptuous
prophecies of his mates concerning the “ cracking-
up” of the “counter-jumper,” kept him from
throwing down his shovel and demanding his
time, otherwise the amount due to him.
But to-day the strain seemed greater than ever.
A dozen times he had braved the boss’s displea-
sure, and marched wearily across to the bucket
of tepid water standing in the full glare of the
sun. A score of times he had snatched a moment’s
rest by watching the boss from the opposite side
of the dray; and during the past hour he had
been sneaking hurried glances at his watch, at
average intervals of five minutes.
His neighbor turned towards him again, with-
out slackening for an instant the easy swing of
the big shovel; for George Smith prided himself
upon throwing a pretty blade.
“Gittin anxious?’ he queried.
The ex-clerk was silent for a moment. 1 hen he
into a stream of bitter curses—bitter,
yet strangely awkward, for “language” is not a
requisite in an up-to-date warehouse ; and be had
not been long enough among the navvies to
Ranches! ° f Van ° US
stdl, so far as his limitations allowed, he cursed
things generally. The boss, the work, the nature
of. the soil, and the hours all came within the
range of his invective ; but it was with the hours
his principal grievance lay. teix hours, he con-
sidei!gd) sh o„ld satisfy any reasonable employer,
As a matter of fact, if he were an employer, he
wouldn’t think of asking men to work more than
bv ®
tapped him gently on the shoulder
J*e wheeled quickly and met Burke s outstretched
hand-with a half-sovereign and four single
shillings showing like islets in an ocean of palm
nd wa \°! dy Tuesday Even the fact that
there was a shilling more than was fairly due to
h.m seemed hardly an alleviation of the wrong,
* * * *
The board of directors of the Black Damp
Colliery Co. had met to consider what steps
should be taken with reference to the existing
strike. The bones of contention were pretty much
as usual—wages and hours, but principally hours,
Things had been .going well with the Black
Damp Co. of late, and the men considered they
bad a p excellent chance of gaining their point,
During the early part of the meeting it
certainly looked as though they would. Opinions
were almost evenly divided ; but, if anything, the
meeting showed a tendency to yield, until the
new director spoke. He had only recently be-
come a large shareholder in Black Damps (per
medium of a legacy which had raised him from
absolute poverty), and he had very lately been
appointed to the board of directors. Up to the
present time he had held his peace. Short and
slight, with narrow, sloping shoulders, he was not
an impressive person. He stood for a moment as
though uncertain how to begin ; but once fairly
started, his words seemed to follow readily
enough. As a speaker he was not brilliant, yet
in his rugged utterances and raspy voice there
rang a note of sincerity which did more to con-
vince his hearers than the most polished oratory
would have done.
In vivid colors he pictured the danger of yield-
ing to “ these ruffians,” whose one idea, he said,
was to place the iron heel of Socialism upon the
neck of Capital. In eager tones he besought his
fellow directors to stand to their principles, and
never to retreat one inch before the onset of
worthless agitators who seemed to imagine that
their whole mission in life was to extort from the
unfortunate capitalist the highest possible wage,
and at the same time to reduce the length of the
working day to an absolute minimum. The thing
was absurd, unworkable, absolutely ridiculous ;
and, as the new director sat down he expressed a
hope that his fellow directors would cordially
agree with him.
And, sure enough, his fellow directors did. He
never could understand by what association of
ideas it came about, but as the undersized man
with the sloping shoulders sat down he looked
round with a start. He had a vague, utterly un-
accountable impression that behind his back a
large hand was offering him fourteen shillings,
SPINIFEX.


This is the strong and convincing testimonial of a
lady residing at Balmain, N. S. W., whose portrait
is also given.
“Some time ago I was taken
very ill, losing my appetite,
could not sleep, and was unable
to do my work. I was attended
by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak.
Sometimes when I was out I
would become so ill I would
to go into a neighbor’s house
until I was fit to walk again. I
cannot describe my sufferings,
only to say that this state of
things lasted for months.
ĥ
ħ
h
“At last I remembered your advertisements in the
papers, so determined to try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took another, and
©till another, and the three bottles completely put me
to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat
and sleep, and work like a Trojan.”
All Sarsaparillas are not alike. There are many
put up in imitation of Ayer’s. Avoid them. Be sure
that you get
AYER’S 8 arsaparilla
•nd then you will not suffer disappointment.
Prepared by D2L J. O. AYER ft CO,, Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne!
lHgAone 2fo. m
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
oolonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
AMUSE THE CHILDREN.
AND YOUNG,
MAGIC LANTERNS.
No. 21, with 12 Slides, If inches wide, 4 views on
each, will show a good clear picture, 12/- post
free, anywhere; others, 2/-, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6,
71 6, 30/-, 35/-, 60/- each.
THESE ARE REAL GOOD VALUE.
STEAM and CLOCKWORK ENGINES, All Prices.
Send for Circular No. B.
&l* & A. BOYES, IRONMONGERS,
241 & 243 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
A SOBER MAN
IS HIS OWN MASTER,
WHY BE A SLAVE TO DRINK?
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure for Alco-
holism never fails. A few doses produce
a wonderful change. The craving all
intoxicants is destroyed, the nerves be-
come steady, the appetite for food returns,
refreshing sleep ensues.
IT MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY
and Cures are effected Quickly, Easily, Safely
and Permanently. DRUNKENNESS is a Dis-
ease, not a Habit, and can be cured.
MOTHERS, SAVE YOUR SONS,
Release them from bondage whether they will
or not. My Cure takes away all desire for
liquor without the patient's knowledge.
My Book “Reclaimed,” No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address all Communications to the
Dr. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
ĥ
HM only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY.
VARiCOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra
Is. and Is. 6d. ’
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; iY.S. r.-Fauiding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
edicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annuallv. Reined"
sent oy mail in plain packages. When CURED we charsre
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS. h
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney m
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWN 6
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
.Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others,. I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ħ
h
ĥ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, ts.
BmA Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
Try Our ELECTRIC BELT, with
SUSPENSORY Attachment.
ħ
Price TWO GUINEAS.
IT Animates the sluggish
circulation, Stimulates
the Brain to Activity,
and fills the body with
Life, Ambition, and En-
durance. It furnishes the
Motive Power that . runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energy and Vigor. Cata-
logue Post Free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO..
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING-
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading- this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth:
street, Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Dbapnkss
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to th«
®3i es - Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo'n months without removal,
lixplanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NASTj 145 Collins St., Melbourne
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
1 Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after. Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush,
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Lreath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINHTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and ctey will be acknowledged to be " WORTH a
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, w cuickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of tae system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion : bringing back the keen ed re of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health, the Whole Physical Enkbgy of the human frame. These
are “ facts ” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’ s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENOLAIW.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is and 2s »d each.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS (the best and most characteristic Australian books) are sold by booksellers throughout
Australasia, or will be forwarded by post (with postage added) from The Bulletin Office, 214 George-street,
Sydney, in return for P. 0.0., postal note, or stamps of Australia or Maoriland.— —Editions de luxe of ON THE
HOP (a splendid collection of pictures), and PHIL MAY IN AUSTRALIA (“his best work,” says The Athenaeum),
21s. each ; boxed and posted, 235. (A cheaper abridged edition of the latter only, 2s. 6d. ; posted 35.) FAIR GIRLS
AND CRAY HORSES (cloth, with portrait) and HEARTS OF COLD (cloth, illus.), verses by Will Ogilvie ; 4s. 6d. each ;
posted ss. AT DAWN AND DUSK (cloth, with portrait), verses by V. J. Daley, 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. A SOUTHERN
GARLAND (cloth, with portraits), verses by R. Quinn, J. Hebblethwaite, L. Slack, H. Church, B. O’Dowd, 4s. 6d.;
posted ss. THE BULLETIN RECITER (cloth, illus.), the best Australian recitation-book, 4s. 6d. ; posted ss.
MAORILAND (cloth, with portrait), verses by A. H. Adams; 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. HITS,
SKITS, AND JINGLES, verses by W. T. Goodge, cloth 3s. fid. (posted 3s. 9d.), papLr 2s. 6d. (posted 2s. 9d.).
THE RED PAGAN, by A. G. Stephens, cloth fis. (posted 6s. 3d.), paper 3s. 6d. (posted 3s. 9d.).
ON OUR SELECTION and OUR NEW SELECTION, by “Steele Rudd” (bestbooks of Australian humour, 25,000 sold),
cloth, illus., 6s. each ; posted, 6s. 6d. THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK (best Australian stories), cloth 4s. (id.; posted
ss. SUCH IS LIFE, a real Australian yarn, by “Torn Collins,” cloth 4s. fid. ; posted ss. CASTRO’S LAST SACRA-
MENT and Other Stories bv A. Dorrington, cloth 2s. 6d. ; posted 3s. BUSHMAN AND BUCCANEER (H. Morant’s
life and verses), Is. ; posted Is. 3d. A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH, by J. Edmond, 6d. ; posted Sd.—-
THE LAST OF SIX, stories by E. Favenc, 6d. ; posted Bd. THE BULLETIN POST-CARDS (three new series in
colours). Series lA, PHIL MAY. Series lIA, “HOP.” Series IV, BACKBLOCKS. Each series makes a packet of
Twelve assorted cards. Price, Is. per packet; posted Is. Id. The Bulletin Newspaper Company Ltd., 214 George
Street, Sydney, Australia.
h
Tffwrfm*"
ĥ
There’s SECURITY in
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
I FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ħ
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill. Small Dos*. Small Price.
They TOUGH the LIVERS
Be Sure they are Carter’s
and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id.
Post Pres.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Eom.,
MAY BE CONSULTED
By Letter or Personally, in All Diseases of Men and Women. Being a Consulting Physician in All Diseases, and
a Specialist Nervous, Skin and Urinary Complaints.
Patients entrusting themselves to his care have the advice of a thoroughly trustworthy and competent
Physician, who treats all cases at Moderate Charges, and
GUARANTEES A CURE in all cases undertaken by him.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—“ Specimen ” Copies of Dr. Martin’s New Medical Work, “THE DISEASES OF
MEN AND WOMEN,” posted FREE on receipt of six stamps to cover postage. Patients who applied for
FREE “ Specimen ” Copies at the beginning of the year (and have not yet received them) can now obtain same
by sending Name and Address, and Stamps (6(1.) for postage. w MIND OVER MA TTER " posted to any
patient- FREE on receipt of Six Stamps.
REMEMBER ! Every Sufferer (man or woman) should possess a complete copy of “ The Diseases of Men and
Women,” and Dr. Martin will send the Complete Work to bona-fide patients, FOR ONE MONTH, for Three
Shillings (postage included). This is nothing more or less than
IP*- A FREE GIFT TO EVERY SUFFERER
on Dr. Martin’s part (the actual cost of each copy to him, with postage, is this amount), the opinion of the
Entire Australian Press being that the work is
THE FINEST WORK OF ITS KIND EVER PUBLISHED IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
(vide Press Extracts, sent on application). Price to General Public, 7/6 (may be obtained at all leading book-
sellers). All communications should be addressed to
" ELM LEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH ST., HYDE PARK, SYDNEY .
(Please mention - this paper when writing.)


Asbestos ...
Boiler Covering
Has Proved its Economy Times without number.
PA 7™, KSt"*"' 5 ’ f ° r “** «•**■
in Bag8 ’ 08011 lcwt -. 125., 145.,
It Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel.
Perdriau Rubber C 0.%
270 George St., Sydney.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers & steam Pipes.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS..
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
k Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
Australian
Mortgage,
Land a INANGE
GRAIN BROKERS
i ' A’
4
■f
-
STOCK and STA TION
AGENTS.
h
INCERSOLL ROCK DRILLS.
Sergeant “Auxiliary Valve” Drill
“New Ingersoll” Drill
“Arc Valve” Tappet Drill
“Little Jap” Drill “Eclipse” Drill
SYDNEY.
NOTICE
To sufferer* from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pain* of Head, Face, or
Limb*.
Old Rmilmblm English Rmmady.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poihqdestkk A Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, a* proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
m the Australian Colonies.
TRUMAN'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sou> in two sizes, 9d. A Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poinqdkstrr A Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
37
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
1 George Street,
s'stsns^'.
kt:
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our StoVes.
HEAD OFFICES :
558 George St., Sydney.
t 42 Rund/e St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
ĥ
■ ■ ■ . ■■■——
SINGLE TON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGttT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES'
A CERTAIN REMEDY
ħ
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
ISJEIVEIR F* AI L. 3.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book :
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES “
h
A NOVEL PRESENT.
J
AN receipt of, P. 0.0.
V forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
or M.O. for &/. we will
address in Australia one
9ct. COLD-FILLED
•POOCHES, with either
- - unuuwnco, wiwi eitner
Bell, Heart Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed the same
quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6. In 1 <st>*
G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Ulus'
trated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully addressed
to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Sole’s Book Arcade,
“~ ,u Vic ’
ĥ
LATEST
MODELS
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is showed on every cycle bought of us. You*
money In full refunded without question
JSSS!fSS?3SS: mhest grsd *
£2.tO to £6
Ea jH? °* New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Eim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
f: acAredanrf fle/fVererf Free
'O any port in the world. We guarantee safe
ie^e J7- ' _ .
ħ
orz& °>
so/ojco pu*tu~puoaß&
K°od as new,
i sale at half factory price*.
EARN A CYCLE
e. Active Agent*
SffiS
lstnot i ljarge P rofit » easily made. Write at on
irea catalogues and oar special offer , using sufficient not
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, he., half pi
MEAD GYOLE GO. Dept. 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
h
ĥ
PILLS.
"I do sot hesitate to say It is die best made pill in the kingdom."—Dr. G. P. Col™. .. <h. Pharmacopeia of th. Royal C 011.,, of Physician, of Londoo.
Bb. BAMen Aft A tAMH v uem/Mue i-An .
famed as a family medicine for a century.
WILFLEY v. CARD CONCENTRATOR.
The judgmeni in the recent law suit does not apply to the original Card Concentrator, but only to two exnerimental
Table lops that were made tor the purpose of trial during the absence of Mr. Guthridge from Australia anHefore
the working of the Table was properly understood. We are, therefore, continuing the and lie of these
“"h. rn mmm .! I : ld ." St !' V , wiU uot be de P rived of «*>' valuable invention IccordW to the sworn evidence
With the ‘ Card '°there concenfcrates and poorer tailings than the f Wilfley.’
Ti « r i » r.v , , practically no loss of lead (mineral), as there is with the ‘ Wilfley.’ ”
Hie Card table may be seen on application, when evidence of its great superiority will be furnished.
N. GUYHRIDGE, Ltd., Sole Agents, 17 BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
