

“GRAND SUPREME” BRANDY. “PIG” STOUT (Guinness’)
T-m
Mining
# 9
107
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AH9 GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD
Sydney.
Kent street,
_WB " Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
SECOND*HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
Over
300
Prize
Me rials
ant
Gra.:u
Prlx,
Paris,
1900.
IV'M, s
4'
Ruston, Proctor
PORTABLE *
FIXL* STEAM
m
KMBOOY MANY
Valuable
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
28,500 STEAM ENGINES SOLD.
Send Tor Illustrated
Lists & Particulars
to Sole Aaents - -
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ’ 7 Bent st, SYDNEY
3fZSj±**2 E*
“■T” fl
fiadleg’s Orient jjots!
PIbNEER
LEATHER
ftELTIWG
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowlci & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
\
Tatic/it back,
1 must have
HUTTONS
Fine Apple Brand
t
Is»’S
THE ROYiU.
D I S W A N BBM'S
m
m
Economy n* Cvkrks*
EHOILITY OF LIOBT.
THE
mm & m
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch I
I* Carrington Street
Wynyard Square.
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depfit:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaida Streak
BRISBANE.
m
m
CONTINENTAL MOTOR TYRES.
Wallace Continental Cycle Tyres.
AT ALL MOTOR AND CYCLE DEPOTS. N.S.W. BRANCH.- 7 WYNYARD STREET, SYDNEY.
m
ask your grocer for
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
1/3
t
$
1/9
DAILY
TREAT!
LTD
BREWERS, WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
and CORDIALS.
m
m
No Other in
the World .
m
B'ivnOH
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED
in
Reliability
Simplicity
efficiently
Durability
Economy.
Mo Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Goulson
116 a'Beckett St,
MELBOURNE.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
A.>
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever issued in Australis*
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced.
A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS GIFT.
** V- •' . ‘ .< •> -Vv r .
HELI DON SPA—“Stands pre-eminent as a
The Bulletin
Vol. 26.—N0. 1330.]
[Thursday, August 10, 1905,
Registered at the General Poet Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Tost as a Hewspap®


m
trge
Gissing, Will Warburton, paper covers 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d,
postage 5d extra.
Vardon, The Complete Golfer, 7s 6d, post 6d.
Brown, William Hogarth, “ M. of British Art," 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Pratt, Vigorous Daunt, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s od, post 6d.
Wright, The Home Mechanic ; or, How to Put Things
Eight Oneself, 7s 6d postage.
Write to us for Any Book You Want.
Hocking-, The Pioneers, paper covers 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d
postage 5d extra.
Whishaw, Grand Duke of Russia, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Ljaing", Problems of the Future, R.P.A. Series, Sd posted.
McCabe, Religion of Woman, R.P.A., 8d posted.
„ r ?,^ a . n > Busmess of Advertising, 3s, post 4d.
Wilkinson, Whaling in Many Seas, 7s 6d, post (id.
tFe are Always Pleased to Answer Inquiries.
71 Castlereagh-street, Sytfney, and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Londcn.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS (the best and most characteristic Australian books) are sold by booksellers throughout
Australasia, or will be forwarded by post (\Vith postage added) from The Bulletin Office, 214 George-street,
Sydney, in return for P. 0.0., postal note, or stamps of Australia or Maoriland. Editions de luxe of ON THE
HOP (a splendid collection of pictures), and PHIL MAY IN AUSTRALIA (“ his best work,” says The Athenaeum ),
21s. each ; boxed and posted, 235. (A cheaper abridged edition of the latter only,. 2s. 6d. ; posted 35.) FAIR GIRLS
AND CRAY HORSES (cloth, with portrait) and HEARTS OF COLD (cloth, illus.), verses by Will Ogilvie ; 4s. 6d. each ;
posted ss.- AT DAWN AND DUSK (cloth, with portrait), verses by V. J. Daley, 4s. Cd. ;"posted ss.— —A SOUTHERN
GARLAND (cloth, With portraits), verses by R. Guinn, J. Hebblethwaite, L. Mack, H. Church, B. O’Dowd, 4s. 6d. ;
posted Ss.— THE BULLETIN KiCITER (cloth, illus.), the best Australian recitation-book, 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. i
MAORILAND (cloth', with portrait), verses by A. H. Adams; 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. HITS,
SKITS, AND JINGLES, verses by W. T. Goodge, cloth 3s. 6d. (posted 3s. 9<: ', pap r 2s. Cd. (posted 2s. 9d.).
THE RED PAGAN, by A. G. Stephens, cloth 6s. (posted 6s. 3d.), paper 3s. Cd, (posted 3s. 9d.).
ON OUR SELECTION and OUR NEW SELECTION, by “Steele Rudd” (best books of Australian humour, 25,000 sold),
cloth, illus., 6s. each ; posted, 6s. 6d. THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK (best Australian stories), cloth 4s. 6d. ; posted
ss. SUCH IS LIFE, a real Australian yarn, by “Tom Collins,” cloth4s. 6d. ; posted ss. CASTRO’S LAST SACRA-
MENT and Other Stories by A. Dorrington, cloth 2s. 6d. ; posted 3s. BUSHMAN AND BUCCANEER (H. Morant’s
life and verses), Is. ; posted Is. 3d.— A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH, by J. Edmond, 6d. ; posted Bd.
THE LAST OF SIX, stories by E. Favenc, 6d. ; posted Bd. THE BULLETIN POST-CARDS (three new series in
colours). Series lA, PHIL MAY. Series lIA, “HOP.” Series IV, BACKBLOGKS. Each series makes a packet of
Twelve assorted cards. Price, Is. per packet; posted Is. Id. The Bulletin Newspaper Company Ltd., 214 George
Street, Sydney, Australia.
IFOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For thk Curb of
Bronchitis I
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
»v>
mm*
'TV.
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says: —
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
Mr Hudson’s eu*4enthol jujubes
{Registered). CONTAINS NO CBCAINS OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUC. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or
from the Manufacturer, 6. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stanips. Sydney
Depot : S& 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W., London.
THE RED PAGE.
THE WHITE FLOWERS CAME.
v.
’T was in the sweet month tremulous
With dancing joys that none may quell
The white flowers came upon the world:
They taught the old-time Parable.
Life looked so very sweet a thing :
The watchers wept, the lights burned low:
He moved, he felt the long, cold kiss,
And yet it seemed not good to go.
Two damsels, underneath the stars,
Lay listening on the cool green ground
Faint as the falling dew they heard
The song that spins the world around.
Strange bickering rose where Death and Life
Sat quarrelling on the green hillside :
Soft as a blessing spoke the bells,
Blue sky and blossoms for a bride.
Toiling and tired at close of day
A thin white widoiv woman prayed ;
In many a lighted town was told
The parable of man and maid.
’T was in the grey of eventime,
Cool earth and sky delightsome mild,
God’s pity came. In. tears he saw
The blue eyes of a little child.
S.N.
FLOTSAM
From a letter of Chas. Lamb’s :
SJehard. knew my blind side when he pitched upon
brawn. ’Tis of all my hobbies the supreme in the eating
way. He might have sent sops from the pan, skimmings
orumplets, hog s lard, the tender brown judiciously
scalped from a fillet of veal (dexterously replaced by a
salamander), the tops of asparagus, fugitive livers, run-
away gizzards of fowls , the eyes of martyred pigs, tender
effusions of laxative woodcocks, the red spawn of lobsters,
leverets’ ears, and such pretty filchings common to cooks ;
but these had been ordinary presents, the everyday cour-
tesies of dishwashers to their sweethearts. Brawn was a
noble thought.
A. novel by Swinburne is announced, Lbve's
Cross-Currents. “Better not.”
In the long miles of the Brit. Museum, some-
body has found a yard of MS. relative to Omar
K.; date of 1592. The writer is Mahmud al
Husaini (and bother his accents). The discoverer
says a version of the last two lines seems to be :
I said to him, “ What are Khayyam’s writings ? ”
He replied, “ Wrong calculations, and some raptures."
This is plainly a mistranslation. It should be
“Wrong raptures and some calculations.”
July Nineteenth Century (an especially good
number) contains an interesting note on the secret
history of the Berlin Treaty as given by Lord
Rowton, Disraeli’s private secretary. Rowton
mentions that all his life Disraeli was ‘‘ a very
poor man.”
A curious point about him was that, whereas in the
early part of his life he was v.ery fond of jewelry, he died
with hardly any. Lord Rowton said he only leit a single
set of onyx studs, and a watch without a chain ; while at
the time of his death he was not even possessed of an
umbrella.
Another uncommonly good article deals with the
condition of Ireland, which grows worse yearlv.
One alarming social fact was shown in the 1901
census report, where it was stated that
The total number of lunatics and idiots returned in
1851 was equal to a ratio of 1 in 657 of the population ; in
1861 to 1 in 411 ; in 1871 to 1 in 328 ; in 1881 to 1 in 281 •
in 1891 to 1 in 222 ; and in 1901 to 1 in 178.
The writer’s (Lord Dunraven) summary follows :
(1) The wealth of Ireland, as proved by income-tax
returns, by taxed salaries of officials in the employ of
municipalities and public companies, by the wage-earning
capacity of the labouring classes, by the marriage and
birth rate, and by all other tests, is, as compared with
the wealth of Great Britain, out of proportion to the
relative amount of taxation paid by the people of the two
islands. —[ 1.e., Ireland is overtaxed.]
(2) The best of the population is still flowing outward
from Ireland, and seeking a future outside the British
Empire, 89 per cent, of Irish emigrants settling in foreign
countries.
(3) Tiie excess of births over deaths is still so small as
to point to, on the one hand, physical deterioration of a
most alarming character, and, on the other, to an absence
of a due proportion of able-bodied persons remaining in
the country. .
(4) The emigration of the most physically and mentally
fit, and the hopeless life which is led by the largest sec-
tion of the people of Ireland, are resulting in an increase
of lunacy which is proving a scourge to the land.
The Contemporary prints an article which is
practically a plea for English peers to marry
‘‘ colonial” wives. The writer gives this interest-
ing table of the comparative fashion in which
those wives.contribute to maintain the stream of
blue blood in Britain :
Their
Americans of Title. Child-
ren.
30 Peeresses .. 39
22 Wives of Baronets 42
22 with a Courtesy
Title .. .. 26
74 107
Their
Colonials of Title. Child-
ren.
23 Peeresses .. 63
30 Wives of Baronets 102
42 with a Courtesy
Title .. ..101
95 266
So that, by the race-test, the “ colonial ” is by 149
per cent, a better woman than her Amer. com-
petitor. By the test of individual-preference, she
is 12 per cent, better, anyway.
H. G. Wells exhibits himself to much better
advantage in Kipps —the story of “a draper’s
soul.” Fragment from the last serial instalment :
“ Here, after all, was the sort of back a woman
can get behind.” That (with corollary) shows a
perfect comprehension of Woman's inmost neces-
sity, whatever her uttermost ideals.
+
Methuen and Co. send a selection of volumes in
their new . “ Standard Library,” which includes
Jane Austen’s Sense arid Sensibility, M. Aurelius’
Meditations, Shakespear’s works, and T. a
Kempis’ Imitation of Christ. The vols. appear in
paper at 6cZ. net, and in cloth at Is. net; and do
really set a standard. Type and paper are
admirable ; but a fault in all the copies supplied
is that the -type is insufficiently inked. The
Shakespear vol., in particular, is so “grey” that
in places it is difficult to read. If that fault were
mended, one would call the blue-cloth vols. the
best (and to book-lovers the most satisfying) yet
devised by publishers of cheap books.
Hirschfeld Bros., educational publishers, of
Holborn, Lond., forward several instruction-books that
measure the improvement in methods of teaching lan-
guages. An liny.-Herman Grammar (revised edn. 1905;
&>•.) follows Hossfeld’s method of providing four pages for
each lesson : a page of grammar, a page of vocabulary and
exercise, a conversational page and a page of reading.
The system is good, and the lessons well arranged. There
are several appendices, and the book as a whole can be
heartily commended. The features of t.n Advanced
German Header (its. net) are the intrinsic interest
of the extracts in prose and verse, and the
modern vogue of authors represented. The valu-
able biographical notes should be revised for Eng.
style: the present text is inconsequent (Novalis), or
pleonastic (Peter), or ungrammatical (Pfeffel). A New
Eng. and French Vocabulary (its. (id. net) contains
18,000 words, including new phrases, technical words,
and special usages for which one hunts dictionaries in
vain. For reader’s reference and for increasing one’s
knowledge of idiomatic French it is the best book of its
class we fit. /e seen.
The Butler report on Eng. az my corruption and
the plunder of the African war-stores should have
had for epigraph a quotation from Gibbon :
George, from his parents or his education, surnamed
the Cappadocian, was born at Epiphania in Cilicia, in a
fuller’s shop. From this obscure and servile origin he
raised himself by the talents of a parasite: and the
patrons, whom he assiduously flattered, procured for
their worthless dependent, a lucrative commission, or
contract, to supply the army with bacon. His employ-
ment was mean ; he rendered it infamous. He accumu-
lated wealth by the basest arts of fraud and corruption ;
but his malversations werh so notorious, that George was
compelled to escape from the pursuits of justice...
The odious stranger, disguising every circumstance of
time and place, assumed the mask of a martyr, a saint,
and a Christian hero ; ahd the infamous George of Cappa-
docia has been transformed into the renowned St. George
of England, tlie patron of arms, of chivalry, and of the
garter.
Patron of arms and corrupt contractor for armies
—St. George for England ! Hip, hip, hooray !
SAID THE STILL-RUNNER
TIME has hung rather heavy on my hands
lately, the new sergeant and trooper being
raw, and afraid to venture into the gullies :
so, laying aside the faithful old Winchester,
sighted to 200 yards for callers’ benefit, I have
amused myself noting down a few memories
which may be useful to beginners.
Sydney is bounded on the east by the sea, on
the north and south (blow the west) by broken
sandstone country, designed by the Almighty
for but one end—running stills. On the Hawkes-
bury, and in the ranges and gullies from George’s
River to Bulli, the trade has become hereditary ;
though, alas, prices are not what they were. It
is true that the police are as sleepy and timid as
ever ; but this does not make up for the cheapen-
ing of the finished article. A few years ago, one
could readily get 20s. a gallon for rum, represent-
ing 18s. protit ; now one is glad to take 15s. Yet
it is still (excuse the jest) an easy living.
But younger generations do not give the care to
their work that they should do. When I was in
Bellingen, on the N. coast, about twelve months
ago, 1 saw a bullocky drive into a pub. yard
there with a cargo under a load of potatoes. I
made the sign of the trade to him, and sampled
his stuff after dark, when he had unloaded.
Simply vile ! The law should put down such
amateurs. No wonder the North Coast cockys
have such a bad name.
There are three sorts of stillers—the profes-
sionals, like myself; the off-and-ons, who only
work occasionally; an d the amateurs. The first
rarely get caught; the second sometimes; and the
third always. The last-named are a most useful
class : they keep the police from meddling with
us. The professional works either alone, or with
one mate ; the casual with a couple or three ; and
the amateur alone, or with up to a dozen.
Three*conditions we all must have : secresy, a
good supply of cool running water, and a way to
get rid of the fire-smoke. For situation, it is a
matter of taste; personally, 1 prefer always to
work in the gullies. On the other hand, some of
the best of our profession run their stills about
Botany and Redfern. The casuals are generally
selectors who have wild country e:i their back
boundary, and can’t make their places pay other-
wise. The amateurs are broken-down chemists or
doctors, who make it anywhere that is handiest.
Our working plant is simple; a pot with a
(removable) domed top; a “worm,” or many-
twisted spiral of copper-tubing ; a big open pot,
and a few bags of brown sugar, or a cask of
treacle, according to fancy. The process is also
simple :_the domed pot is first filled almost brim--
(.., lof either treacle or sugar-and-water; the dome
is fixed on it; the mouth of the worm is then care-
fully fixed to the point of the dome. The other
worm-mouth stands over the second empty pot.
the domed pot must stand over a tire just
1 , enough to keep it constantly boiling ; and a
stream of cold watei* must runover the worm, to con-
dense the steam. When condensed, the steam runs
out in oily drops into the second pan, cooled in a
similar way. Drawn off, the sturf is as white as
milk, and as strong as rackarock ; the smell from
it will stupefy anyone not used to it. I have
known it to bleach a half-caste’s hair (temporarily,
of course). It is sold to the publican like
this ; he waters it down about 2UO per cent—and
you see where his profit comes in.
Getting rid of tne stuff is supposed to be the
worst part of the job. Rats ! The go-between
takes all the risks; last Tuesdav one from Wol-
longong offered to take 100/. v. orth a week from
me, and drive within half-a-mile of the still to
collect. I think he wants it for cordial-makers’
stuff. Our trouble is getting the raw material
out to the still; to hump a treacle-tin or 701 b. bag
down over rocks and across creeks tries the back
and temper. Humping the finished article up out
of the gully in a little barrel, or preferably a port-
manteau with a tinned inside, is much easier. I
don’t like wearing sandshoes myself, as they
sweat my feet; still, in our business, you must do
it : they leave no tracks.
There are several ways of forwarding. In work-
ing many of the gullies on the George’s River
(salt-water) we find it best to boat the stuff down
to Botany on moonlight nights. If towards Bulli,
send it down the Pass under produce; if near
Appin, ship it as milk from Campbelltown. On
the Hawkesbury, send it round in a ketch under
firewood. All my stuff at present is going to
Cataract dam ; but I won’t say how.
I have had some shaves of being caught. Was
taking in a prime lot once from Appin to Camp-
belltown, under a load of wood ; at the last minute
my brother asked me to deliver five tins of honey
there, too. I shoved them on top of the stingo,
under the wood, to keep the sun off them. Half-
a-mile out of Campbelltown the sergeant stopped
me ; he must have seen the top tin shine through
the wood. “ What have you got there, Falder ? ”
“Only honey,” I told him, looking as inno-
cent as the bullocks. “I’m fond of honey,” he
says—“ let’s taste it.” He tried the five tins- —all
honey. “You’ve saved your bacon this time,” he
says; “and I’ll have you yet.” But he never did !
Another time the trooper rode rigl.: on top of
the rock where I was working. Like all our
shops, it was a sandstone cave blocked up rough
with stone. He sat there looking about till his
horse got a bit lively (I expect lie felt the fire). I
watched him from the gateway at the back ; but
didn’t pull trigger because I saw he was only look-
ing at the view. He rode away a little after. I
never saw him again. When he reads this, he’ll
know how near eternity lie was.'
It is best to shoot strangers only when they’re
meddlesome. (I had to droji one on the Hawkes-
bury about twelve months ago, back of Wiseman’s
Jerry.) people are born without sense,
though, and will come poking about. From the
main road they see a thin line of smoke coming
up out of one of the gullies off the main range.
“ Must be a still!” they say, and come poking
over to look at it. We see them from our
look-out a couple of hundred yards off; douse any
embers, slip into our back gateway and watch.
They poke along till right up to it, walk past and
back half-a-dozen times, then go away grumbling.
Sometimes one stumbles on it: then he drops.
You can walk p'ast a still a hundred times out
here and not find it,-even if you know it’s there.
Ihe waterworn sandstone rocks, oh the gully sides,
run back under forty feet sometimes; and a few
growing' bushes and fallen (?) at/'' ',es in the front
make a natural screen. Then there’s always a
trickle of water soaking through from the hill-top ;
a little passage for a get-away is easily cut out of
the side. Two infallible ways of finding a still
are, the smoke and the scummy water which runs
off the worm after cooling it. I don’t know why
it should be foul like that, running off the hot
copper ; but it is.
Jt
The law about stills is that the informer gets
50/. if the full still is caught. It costs the stiller
from 100/. to 400/. each time he is caught,
‘‘according to circumstances” (previous convic-
tions). He can afford to be caught every twelve
months, too. A still is not a still unless the -worm
is there. Our first care, when we leave by the
back, is to take the worm with us. We generally
keep it in a hollow stump, covered over with dead
leaves, when not in use.
I lost a still once very simply through that.
Had a party of friends out from Liverpool on
Boxing Day, to see the show working. They
borrowed a basin from me to heat some soup in ;
afterwards, not thinking, stuck it, grease and all,
on top of the worm, and filled the stump-hole up
with leaves. The stump had fine green suckers
growing up from it, too. Police came out next
day (someone had informed for spite); they found
the still all right, but couldn’t strike the worm.
The sergeant had a pet retriever with him. Just
as I saw them go to ride away, the brute started
scratching at the stump; he smelt the dish, of
course. Even then they didn’t drop till Carlo got
impatient, and made a dive through the. suckers ;
he fell on top of the dish and worm, and made
them rattle like blazes. Even a policeman knows
that tin-cans aren’t indigenous ; so they got it.
As a set-off, I once worked a still in a swamp
just off the river, towards Como, for about five
years, till it was only fit for scrap iron; then went
and informed on it, and got fifty quid. I had a
lark once with a ’tec, too, at Liverpool. Got up
two fine casks of treacle, and found this brute
watching them ; so I put them on a dray in broad
daylight, and drove out about five miles from
town into a thick patch of scrub. Dumped them
there, and drove back to town, leaving the tec
watching them—and a mate watching him. Left
them there for a couple of day's in the rain, till
the’tec had to quit for food ; and in his absence
carted the casks back to the main road, where I
had another cart waiting to carry them to the still.
The ’tec got home, and died of inflammation of
the lights, or something (I forget the exact details
of his demise).
Another time we shipped a record cargo by train
from Minto, on the Southern line. Got an order
upjn the morning for stuff to go down that night
without fail. Had a big lot of it read}', as it hap-
pened ; packed in treacle tins, honey tins, lager-
bier ‘ ases—in fact, anything that would hold.
Must have had half a ton on the cart when I
dashed out of the bush as the train slowed in.
The outfit smelt like a chemist’s shop as we banged
it into the van. (1 hope none of the guards
sampled it on the way down.) It got there all
right; and we got a big cheque up next day for it.
My advice to those thinking of going stilling is
“Do; by all means.” It keeps tue police from
pestering me ; and the fine for a first offence won’t
hurt you.
FALDER.
JETSAM
Donald Murray, of Sydney, forwards copy of a
very able and interesting paper, read before the
British Institution of Electrical Engineers in
February last. The subject is “Setting Type
by Telegraph.” Mr. Murray has invented a
S y S t e m (claimed to be the simplest extant) by
w bich a message printed on a typewriter at one
end of a wire is automatically duplicated on
another typewriter at the other end. The system
is fuilv explained in the inventor’s paper, which
is admirably illustrated. One agrees with the
commentator who said that “the paper is a
model, and an example of logical and orderly
setting out of a beautiful invention. ’ For long-
distance work, the system, though still in its
infancy of application, seems particularly adapted,
Mr. Murray says, for example, that it is un-
doubtedly practicable with the aid of the Murray
kevboard perforator, the Brown cable relay and
perforator, and the Murray printer, to work a
typewriter in Hew York by playing on a key-
board m London The invention and the descrip-
tion of the invention are things that one is glad to
find springing from an Australian source,
An Amer. writer kindly says that “there is
something provincial in the attitude of a man such
as p ro fessor Jebb, who looks with contempt on
Zealand and the New Zealanders because
they are supposed to speak of ‘Cupid and Sich,’
w hile he himself is doubtless completely ignorant
Q f the Socialistic movement among that people,
w hich in the future history of the world will exert
an influence out of comparison with the pretty
f a b]es of antiquity.”
RECENTLY FUBLISHRD
The Queens Progress and Other Elizabethan
Sketches, by F. E. Schelling (Lond. ; T. W.
Laurie, 10s. net), is a book handsomely printed ;
and the included portraits of Q. Elizabeth, Ben
Jonson, Drummond of Havvthornden, and others
are especially admirable. The sketches represent
the lighter freight of the author’s antiquarian
researches, and may enthral the elect. One meets
curious glimpses and anecdotes:
Women first appeared as actresses on the stage about
the time of the Restoration, and in a few years the hoy
actor was a thing of the past. Francis Kynaston is
reputed to have been the last male actor to appear in
female parts. Kynaston was, famed for his delicate
beauty; and it is of him that Cibber relates the story
that King Charles, coming earlier than was expected to
the playhouse, became impatient that the play did not
begin, until .nformed that the queen was unhappi’- not
yet shaven.
There is a picture of the last sad days o f i obert
Greene, with this pathetic note to the w.io he had
wronged :
“ Sweet Wife: As ever there was any good will or
friendship between thee and me, see this bearer, my host,
satisfied of his debt: I owe him ten pound, and but for
him I had perished in the streets. Forget and forgive
my wrongs done unto thee, and Almighty God have
mercy on my soul. Farewell till we meet in heaven, for
on earth thou shalt never see me more. This 2of
September, 1592. Written by thy dying husband, Robert
Greene.”
The musicianly poets of Elizabeth’s age are the
subject of a chapter. Of the most notable of
them, Thomas Campion, Schelling writos :
The poetry of Campion is saturated with Catullus ; and
it shares in the Roman poet’s sweetness, sensuoueness,
and mellifluous flow of musical words. Campion is not
wholly a poet of love, although he lavishes on Venus’s
altars his richest and loveliest fruits. There is a purity
and simple childlike fervour, a genuine singing quality
and happy mastery of phrase in the more serious of his
Bongs, that raise Campion measurably above the chorus
of amourists and dainty gilded sonneteers who rise and
fall in a singing swarm among the sallows of the Eliza-
bethan garden of Love.
The last essay in the book accompanies Ben
Jonson on his famous journey to Hawthornden.
The volume will be agreeable to local men of
letters.
The National Art Library of the Victoria and
Albert Museum, South Kensington, London,
publishes an interesting catalogue of the Library’s
fine collection of Whistler etchings, lithographs,
and engravings. A useful bibliography is added.
Australian admirers of Whistler, going to London,
will find it worth while to pay a special visit to
this Library.
' The catalogue of Vic. Artists’ Society’s Winter
Exhibition is prefaced by a capital account of “The
Beginnings of Victorian Art,” written by W. Moore. The
society may be congratulated upon the engraving and
printing of the handsome illus. to the catalogue : which
numbers 236 items (including six statuettes, four minia-
tures, and an occasional chair). The S.A. Society of Arts
is strongly represented. Pictures are priced from 10s. 6d.
to 4411., which is asked for Blamire Young’s view of Tenny-
son reading “ Maud ” to his friends, with a dozen por-
traits of pre-Raphaeiites and others.
A very interesting international exhibition of
process engraving was held recently at South
Kensington Museum (Lond.). Australian work
might have- been represented; and local en-
gravers should secure a copy of the cata-
logue (Wymans, Fetter Lane; 9 d.) The in-
troduction to the catalogue is a succinct his-
torical and critical summary of engraving pro-
cesses, by Major Waterhouse: full of valuable
detail. The section on photographic colour-
printing is especially suggestive.
A.G.B.


mm
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
m
Anil all Kinde of BUTCHERS' PRODUCE. -«l
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
The CHEAPEST HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
FOOTBALLS.
AH Balls fitted with Best Quality
(IMPORTED) Red Rubber Bladders.
BUG-BY OR ASSOCIATIOISL
mm
mjSiliOfy
i
f 111
[rV\!
l>Y
fO"Al
s .WASiM
fiiie
f tyfc s>4-.^ v
> \
‘/lm*
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Royal ” Match Footballs, 7/6.
NICHOLSON’S “ Royal ” Hand Sewn Match, 9/6
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Special Royal ” Footballs, 11/6.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s Extra Special Stpd “A.N.A.,” 14/6
GILBERT’S Best Match Footballs, 12/6.
BRYAN’S “Grasshopper” Match Footballs, 13/6.
“DIADEM” Buttonless Match, Association onl.v, 13/6.
SYIvE’S “ Rival,” Association Match only, 10/-.
SYKE’S “ Albion,” Association Match only, 11/6.
SYKE’S “League Defiance,” Association Match only, 15/-.
BOVS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY.
s. d.
Solid Leather, No. 1 each 2 3
„„„2 „ 2 9
„„„ 3 3 6
„ „ „ 4 ~4 3
„ „ Matchll 5 0
ASSOCIATION. s. d.
Solid Leather, No. 1 each 2 6
2 ,33
» » » » ,39
„ ~ - 4 ~4 6
„ „ Match 111 „ 5 0
Special Youths’ Match Ball, Best Quality.. ~ 14 0
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra Special Value.
No. 1, Is. 9d. each. No. 2,2 s. 3d. each. No. 3,2 s. 9d. each. No. 4, 3 s. 3d. each.
FOOTBALL BLADDERS (Imported). Red Rubber—Rugby or Association*
No. 1
» 2
» 3
» 4
8. d.
each 1 0
„ 1 4
~17
„ 110
No. 5
„ 6, Association only
„ 5, Rugby only, Special Extra Stout
Rubber
s. d.
each 2 3
2/9, 3 3
each 3 3
We can supply Colonial Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES. Shin Guards.
s. d.
Stout Twill, with tapes .. .. . pair 1 0
Stout Twill, straps and buckles .. .. „ 13
Basil, leather straps and buckles .. .. „ 16
Brown Basil, extra large continuous leather
straps „ 2 0
Gold Cape, straps and buckles 2 9
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather
straps .. ~
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, con-
tinuous straps, with or without ankle
pads
Same as above, larger size
s. d.
pair 3 0
4 0
5 0
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOT, blocked toe-cap, very light, a splendid
boot for Rugby, 10s 6d pair.
Extra Quality English-made BUCK SKIN BOOT (white), blocked toe and ankle
pads, guard over instep, very special quality, 14s 6d pair.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOTS, blocked toe-caps, with and without
ankle pads, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d pair.
BRASS INFLATORS— Is 3d, Is lOd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 6s 6d each.
UMPIRES’ WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS, 6d each. LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
Stout Web Belts, Double Straps and Pocket, Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
Solid Blocked Leather Ankle Guards, 2/6 set of 4
EAR CAPS— White Duck (open top), 3s each ; Buff Chamois
(netted crown), 3s 9d ea. ; Gold Cape (netted crown), 5s ea.
JERSEYS —Men’s Best Quality Navy, Royal Blue, Maroon or
Sky in single colors. Royal and Gold, Sky and Maroon,
Maroon and Gold, Black and Cardinal, Light and Dark
Blue, Black and White, Royal and White, Red and White,
Navy and White, Cardinal and Royal, Black and Royal,
Green and Red, Black and Gold, Green and Gold, in 2-inch
bars, 481- dozen ; 4/3 each.
H
, VJ
H
34
5 10
The Great
Monts
Carlo
Game.
Perfection of
Mechanical
ingenuity.
Finest Quality
•Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert).
PRICE—
10/6
Post
Free.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment
due in about six
weeks.
PUNCHING BALLS.
Swinging' Ball, complete, with best
quality Bed Bubber Bladder—
-7s 6d, 11s Od, 15s, 18s, 20s, 21s,
255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete—lss 6d, 16s 6d,
18s 6d, 21s, 255.
Bubber Cord for fixing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Bubber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels—
Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
SPECIAL NOTICE,
The Celebrated
“MAINE”
RIFLE,
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, 'lSin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jlb.
THE MAINE
PiFle
<She using Qifle Apart.
Price 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
AMMUNITION,
Gun Cartridges.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges .
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
~ 22 Short
~ 22 Long
~ 22 Long Rifle ..
~ 22 Extra Long..
*sloo 111000
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Od 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
G.8.8.L. Gan, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Gross. Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
)
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
PRICE
HOLLIS & SOWS’ “THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. HAMMER LESS GUN, 12.
gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ’ steel barrels, both choke, side
lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with
Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for 2 5 in. cartridges. . GUARANTEED FOR
AT,T, SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States ..
£l2 12s
Berb'y
3/6
wm
BiiS
<=>
Handicap
5 /-
n
a
STANbARb
7/3
Ascot
2/e.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25 s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. dQZ
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
m
m
BOXING GLOVES.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; I
60z., 12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Gape or Chamois,
Champion shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
PF* Illustrated Sports, Fishing Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
mm
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 ;:hots in four seconds, weight
sJlb
£5
m
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 gauge, top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding looks,
left choke, patent D. & E. fore-end, pistol
grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
40s
mm
Winchester “Thum'>Trigger” RifSe
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 31b. 15s
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V s. d.
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2§lb. .. 18 6
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 3Jib 16 6
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Telephone No. 769. Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall
' - and Post Office, and within a stone’s throw of all the theatres.
TARIFF FOR ROOMS ONLY.
SINGLE BOOM : For One Guest, 2/6 per day, or 15/- per week.
DOUBLE ROOM: For Two Guests, 5/- per day, or 30/- per week.
BOARD and RESIDENCE TARIFF
SINGLE ROOM: For one Guest (with Full Board), 6/- per day, or 30/- per week.
DOUBLE ROOM : For Two Gv.ests (with Full Board), 12/- per day, or ,53 per week.
Prompt attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made
this the MOST POPULAR HOUSE IN THE CITY.
Hotel Entrance: MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
m
©
:
Rifle and Pistol C artridges.
The proof of the pudding is the eating ; the proof of
the cartridge is its shooting. The great popularity-
attained by Winchester rifle and pistol cartridges
during a period of over 30 years is the best proof of
their shooting qualities. They always give satisfac-
tion. Winchester .22 caliber cartridges loaded with
Smokeless powder have the celebrated Winches-
ter Greaseless Bullets, which make them cleaner to
handle than any cartridges of this caliber made.
ALL SUCCESSFUL SPORTSMEN USE THEM.
m
W3J
m
\ WORN |
I BY I
ROYALTY.
J.
<r
O
O
i
Prevent worn-down heels and unshapely boots. Make one pair of boots
wear as long as two. Reduce fatigue, give grace to the walk and make
every step a pleasure.
Obtainable retail from all Storekeepers and Boot Stores throughout the States.
Wholesale only from D, & W. MURRAY, Ltd.,
Adelaide, Kalgoorlie, Launceston, Townsville, Perth, Melbourne, Brisbane, Broken Hill.
Sole Manufacturers oj the Wood-Milne Heels-RZVOU/MG HEEL Co., Preston, ENGLAND.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
BILIOUSNESS,
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAU riOM.-Sw Capsule marked EMO’3 -FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hart a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. O. UNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists. &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, special
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
1U . TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Malign ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerses, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain ancl Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
era g rarto r* IE £317 Pi I I Q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Lal-UO&J Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43,6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Uver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
DYSPEPTIC DEBILITY.
A HARROWING TALE OF SUFFERING AND A
THANKFUL TRIBUTE FROM ULTIMO.
The Case of Mr. V. BQRWICK,
(■By a Sydney Reporter.)
Mr. Victor Borwick is a storekeeper
who has his business premises and re-
sidence at 286 and 288 Crown-road,
Ultimo, and although he could have
been found at this address any time
during the past eleven years,it was not
till lately that a reporter had occasion
to pay his establishment a visit, “the
reason for calling/’ as the scribe ex-
plained, “being to get some informa-
tion respecting a widely-known recov-
ery that happened to come within
hearing.”
“Ah ! That is six years ago now
since I got all right again/’ Air. Bor-
wick remarked, “and I think it was
about up to me to have a change of
luck, considering that I had been suf-
fering for fully three years. The pains
that ran along my gums and reached
up to the top of my head wero some-
thing terrible, and half my time I did
not know what I was doing. My ad-
versities set in when I was ‘running
the plank,’ as they call it, on a boat
discharging blue metal, and I can as-
sure you that J was so broken down
in health that I had to put another man
on to do my work about every other
week. Talk about neuralgia ! I’m sure
nobody could have it worse than I
had, and as I found such a grand cure
for it the least T can do is to let hu-
manity know all about it, for I dare-
say my experience will prove very
helpful. Well, out of all the medicines
I tried to cure neuralgia the only one
that was of any lasting benefit was
Clements Tonic, and when I say that
after keeping going with that remedy
for a few weeks the fearful pains all left
me and have never returned all these
years, it is the honest truth I am tell-
ing you.”
“Is that the only ailment you have
had ?”
“Indeed, no. All the time the neural-
fic tortures were at me I had other
roubles to deal With, for my diges-
tion was just as bad as it could be.
Both from want of appetite, and also
owing to the pains about my jaws,
eating was almost out of the ques-
tion ; but what was still more unfortu-
nate was the fact that the little I did
force myseli to take to keep body and
soul together had the unhappy habit
of disagreeing with me. And you must
remember that I was getting no sleep.
Neither night nor day—for weeks at a
stretch sometimes—could 1 get any
rest, and, as you may well imagine,
the result was disastrous. I got so
terribly weak that ultimately I had to
give up my work altogether, and mv
body was so denuded of flesh that my
clothes hung about me like a sack.
Indeed, 1 was just going to have some
of them altered about the time that I
started on Clements Tonic, and by
some means or other the idea was
shelved for a while, for Which I was
afierwards very glad, as in a few
months I was as stout as ever. Yes i;
it was quite a matter for regular com-
ment how well I was looking, and,
thank God ! I felt well, tbo. For three
years previous to using Clements To-
nic I was nothing but a total wreck,
for every part of my body was ad-
versely affected in somo way or other.
It was my first experience of indiges-
tion, and T sincerely trust it will be
my last, for I would rather be dead
and out of the world altogether than
go through such misery again, t got to
feel as shaky and uncomfortable as if
everything in my inside was going to
pieces, and was so disturbed and un-
settled mentally that the least thing
mad© me irritable. My eyes always
felt heavy and swollen to such an ex-
tent that 1 could scarcely see to read,
and I felt so discontented and restless
that 1 could not stay indoors. Conse-
quently I often wandered about out-
side hardly knowing what to do with
myself, feeling as though death would
be a thousand times more welcome
than the wretched life I was leading,
for I was in agony everywhere. The
pains in my chest were really cruel,,
and I thought I had strained myself
or broken something between my
shoulders owing to the pain that was
there. It was like getting hold of a
piece ot meat, and tearing it in two —
that was the kind of feeling 1 had be-
tween the shoulders, and my loins
ached badly into the bargain."
“And have you never had a return
of any oi thoso symptoms during the
past six years 1”
“Mo, upon my honour ; and I have
not had that nasty, bulged-out feeling
in the stomach either after eating my
food. Mo ; Clements Tonic removed
everything, even to the bitter taste of
a morning and the fur that used to
cover my tongue, besides which it gave
me permanent relief from the many at-
tacks of giddiness that I had pre-
viously been subjected to. How much
my nerves accounted for the misery I
had endured is hard to say definitely,
but they undoubtedly had their fair
share of responsibility, for I must tell
you that 1 was so highly nervous that
I could not stand the least excitement
without getting all of a tremble, and I
had also contracted an uncontrollable
practice of measuring the future witn
nothing but trouble and worry in
store. All I could see before me was a
continuance of my suffering only to be
added to by misfortunes of other de-
scriptions, and now that you under-
stand the gloomy frame of mind I wa»
in you will readily conceive why 1
speak so highly of Clements Tonic for
lifting me from that sorry state to
the happy and healthy condition. I ami
now blessed with. It was through
reading somebody's testimonial that 1
decided to give Clements Tonic a trial,
and my earnest hope is that other
sufferers, for their sake, will be so in-
fluenced when they read mine, and
then l shall consider I hav© performed
a valuable service to the community.
1 can give Clements Tonic a special
word in respect to its invigorating in-
fluence over my nervous system. It
cleared every trace of nervousness
right away, and as an appetiser it
was simply marvellous, bat ! Why,
when once I got going I hprdly knew
when to stop, so no wonder I soon
Idled my clothes out again. But it
was all good, sound flesh I put on,
plenty of strength and vigour behind
it, and after using several bottles of
Clements Tonic, there was hardly an
ache anywhere to mar the wonderful
cure I had made. What little discom-
fort there was left after using my first
lot of Clements Tonic was soon dis-
persed by my continuance of the same
remedy, and if anybody doubts the
completeness of my recovery all they
hav© to do is to drop in and see. me,
and I will give them my experience
verbally from end to end." .
“And in the meantime may I circu-
late your story ?”
“You are at liberty to publish it m
any conceivable style you may wish a -
STATUTORY DECLARATION'.
I, VICTOR BORWICK, of 286-288 Crown
ftoad. Ultimo, in the State of New South
Wales, Commonwealth of Australia,’ do
soleihnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing of five folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my lull permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment: and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of tho Oaths Act, 1960.
07 .
Subscribed and declared at Ultimo this
twenty-third day of August, one thousand
nine hundred and four, before me,
W. J. KYLE, J.P,
LADIES’ (Kb GENT .’S
Watches (El Chains,
Birthday RJNGS
Brooches, Curb Chain Bracelets—FßEE,
A Solid Gold Ladies’ or Gent.’s Watch costs
from £5 to Don’t throw your money
away. If you want a watch that will equal for
time any solid gold watch made, send us your
name and address at once, and we will send
you 8 boxes of our famous New Life Electine
Vegetable Pills to sell at 1/- a box—a grand
remedy and cure for all impure and weak con-
ditions of the blood, kidney and liver trouble, a
cure for constipation and weak nervous disor-
ders, a. tonic and a life builder. Our pills are
genuine, and are carefully manufactured from
the very best drugs. They are easy to sell.
Send us your order at once, and we will send
you the 8 boxes, postage paid. When sold you
send us our money, 8/-, and we will send you
your prize. We are giving these watches and
other prizes to quickly introduce our pills, .
and when you receive your premium we ask you to show it to your friends. This is a grand oppor-
tunity to get a fine. Watch and Chain Free. Send us your name and address at once. You
take no risk. Electine Medicine Co., Ash St., Sy dney, N.vS.W.
A Few Remarks from the Department of Public Health.
Head Office, Wellington, N.Z,, 16th May, 1905.
Gentlemen, —I have to acknowledge receipt of your formulae of “ Electine Kidney Bean.”
“New Life, Blood, Tonic and Nerve Pill,” “Electine Little Liver Granules” and “Electine Cold
and Headache Tablets.” I am glad to see that you are not ashamed to put your'forinulae on
the outside of each box. I have the honour to be, gentlemen, your obedient servant,
The Electine Medicine Co., Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W. Du. J. W. MASON, Chief Healtii CUi^]r ?
r S° '
1!
mo,


mag^ggj.
u.
“ We are old friends, this bottle and
I. We have known each other for over
6ixty years. When a boy I was always
taking cold, but a few doses of this
medicine would at once set me right.
“ When a young man I had a weak
throat and weak lungs. My friends
feared some lung trouble, but
or ’s
Cherry Pectoral
greatly strengthened my throat, cleared
up my voice, and took away the ten-
dency for every cold to go to my lungs.
“ Last year I had a bad attack of la
grippe. The only medicine I took was
from this bottle, and I came out all
right. I know it’s good, too, for
asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia,croup.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of theml Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Maas., U.S.A.
Purveyors by
Royal Warrant
m
To His Majesty
The King.
if you require a treat, use
“MOIR’S”
PURE PICKLES
They are absolutely
perfect.
An Inexpensive Table Delicacy
“MOIR’S”
Soup Squares
Rich Soup made in a
few minutes. Try some.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
The Very First
= Polish =
is the polish that is given to ladies’ and
children’s shoes by HAUTHAWAY’S
Peerless
Gloss *
which is known the world over as the
finest shoe-polishing preparation ever pro-
duced. Not only does it polish better than
any other polish, but it is good for the
leather—softens it, makes itcomiortable to
the foot, and has such protective and pre-
servative qualities that shoes upon which
it is used last much longer than they
otherwise would. Not sticky, but pleasant
to use, and gives a gloss of great brilliance.
Sold at all Boot Stores.
Be sure to ask for Hauthaway’s.
C. L Hauthaway & Sons, 346, Congress
Street Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
m
BALSAMIC
LIXIi
FOR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
k, COUCHS, COLDS,
CONSUMPTION.
OP ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERS.
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price €3clPoet Free.
From Coombe Lodge, Peckham, London, S.E., England
THE CAREFUL HOUSEWIFE
does not forget when ordering the household goods to include a. bottle of “ BONNINGTON'B
IRISH MOSS.” She knows it is advisable to have this medicine in the house, as it is a
certain remedy for troublesome Colds, Bronchitis, and Chest affections generally. It never
fails to cure if you obtain the genuine article,
BONNINfiTON’S IRISH NjOSS
(OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.)
.
190 Korse-Power Eleotrlo Plant, operating at
Tlio Oathcart Proprietary Cold Mine, Ararat, Vlotorla.
mm
Ganz&Co.
LIMITED
BUDAPEST, HUNGARY.
Complete Electric
Lighting, Power
Traction Plants.
DOLE AUSTRALIAN ACENTB—
Austral Otis
Engineering Co.
Cr. Hannah & Kavanagh Sts., South Melbourne!
m
ARE YOU BALD ?
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, I will guarantee that
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC will make that “ down ” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capilla. 2/6 a bottle ;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. O.
Richahds, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ROBERT HURST,
FLINDERS ST., SWANSTON ST.,
BOURKE ST.,
All Suburbs, and Ballarat.
HELBOURNE
No. 271 C.
Special
Gentlemen's
"Zephyr” Kid
Balmorals,
Welted,
Guaranteed.
12s. 6d.
No. 271 C.
This BOOT is made
in any Shape to
suit Customers,
and will he mailed
anywhere in the
Commonwealth
for
13s. 6d.
Robert Hurst,
MELBOURNE, all . . .
Suburbs, and Ballarat.
Various Verses,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I am Old.
When I am old,
When all the springs of life run dry,
And joy no longer wings my feet;
When laughter breaks off with a sigh,
And shadows fill the darkened street,
When I am old.
When I am old,
And Love no longer comes my way,
Nor Friendships claim me as their own;
When life grows greyer day by day,
And pulse and heart are cold as stone,
When I am old.
When I am old,
And locks are white instead of gold,
Wrinkled and brown the skin of snow,
The face is as a tale long told,
The lissome form bent like a bow,
When I am old.
When I am old
Then all the tides of feeling ebb,
No longer passion, sorrow, pain
Await me in Fate’s future web;
The curse is as the curse of Cain,
When I am old.
When I am old
An alien in the homely throng,
A changeling child to guard with care,
A thing remote from right or wrong,
A worn-out frame no longer fair,
When I am old.
When I am old,
And dull to hear and slow of speech,
A mark for Youth’s impatient speed ;
A thought didactic, given to preach
The fragments of a bygone creed,
When I am old.
When I am old
The great emotions are no more,
Nor love nor sorrow, joy nor pain.
Food, and a fire by which to pore
Back to the animal again,
When I am old.
When I am old
And laggard Death arrives at last
Some decent tears, to hide relief,
Fall on a relic of the past,
A derelict beyond all grief,
When I am old.
N.S.W.
C.E.S.
The Time That’s Here To-Day.
Now, I’m sick of all the story that I’ve heard the
bush-bards humming,
As they sit, like Patience, smiling on a monument
at Grief,
’Bout the days of want and worry, and the good
times that are coming,
And the clouds with silver linings all trimmed up
for our relief.
All this “cheer up, brother,” gospel, and the cant
of “bright to-morrows”
Seems to set my dander rising when I meet them
on my way,
For I reckon that the future, given all its balm of
sorrows,
Isn’t worth a simple fraction of the Time we’ve
got to-day!
What’s it matter if we’re chasing pennyweights
for clothes and tucker
While the other fellow’s tearing nuggets from a
ten-ounce ditch ?
It’s his luck —without the miners there would be
no room for truckers,
And there’d be no miners either s’posing no one
struck it rich.
All this chat about the harvest that some season’s
going to bring us
Seems to me a sort of funking of the tail-end of
the plough;
And if good things come by waiting, well, I guess
the gods will fling us
Just a few of them —to kid us—if we hustle for
them now !
When I tumbled out this morning I’ll admit the
world looked gloomy
(Always seems to when you’re starting on the day
by candle-light);
And my dungarees were clammy, and the sky was
grey and spumey,
And I overturned the billy—seemed like nothing
would go right.
But the bell-birds started piping in the wet bush
all around me,
And my blood rushed quicker than it will a hun-
dred long years hence,
And the very pride of living burst the puny cords
that bound me;
My dreams may be the future’s, but my life’s the'
present tense!
I suppose to-day we’re reaping what we sowed in
bygone ages.
If we gloried in the tilling need we grumble at the
crop ?
I suppose the future, somehow, has been writ in
earlier pages,
We shall sin, and live and linger, and will ripen,
fret and drop.
So I’m sick of all this story that I hear the bush-
bards humming,
Of the days of want and worry, as they moon
along their way;
For I reckon that the future, given all its “ good
times coming,”
Isn’t worth a glowing fraction of the Time that’s
here to-day 1
WESTKALIA.
T. H. WILSON.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1349. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stook or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. \V Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator the Hon. J, T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ;F. E Winchcombe, Esq.,
M.L.A. General Manasrer and Actuary — Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
Our New Season's Show of , MQT nDEU!;n
Spring and Summer Goods
Our NEW DRESS GOODS comprise hosts of
Artistic Novelties in Texture and Design. Many of
the materials are in sing'le-dress lengths-—no two
alike. The ever-favorite Washing Frock, the “ Queen
of Everyday,” has not been forgotten in our ship-
ments.
GLOVES, laces, ribbons, chiffons,
PARASOLS —Prettier than ever before. Will be
loved at sight.
Our NEW MILLINERY, from leading London
and Paris Ateliers, will make Plain Faces Pretty,
Pretty Faces Prettier.
In our TAILORING AND CLOTHING DE-
PARTMENTS we are showing- Summer Suits,
Summer Suitings, Summer Trouser-
ings, and All Requisites for Men’s Wear.
RIDING BREECHES a Speciality.
We shall have much pleasure in forwarding Patterns of our New Goods to COUNTRY RESIDENTS,
together with Self-Measurement Forms, and Particulars as to Prices, on application, Free of Cost.
FINNEY, ISLES <& CO., Limited, The Big Block,
Edward and Adelaide Streets, BRISBANE.
Wit
MBPS
MEDLOW BATH HYDRO, Blue Mountains, n.s.w.
r//B ONLY WINTER RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
T T ih A t T hat climate ° t f Sydney is delightful in winter, but it is not so well known
X that the Blue Mountain air is best of all—crisp, bracing atmosphere, sometimes frosty
sometimes snowy, but sun, frost or snow is always delightful. MEDLOW BATH HYDRO
is a Health Home, electrically lighted and heated throughout; resident doctor: baths and
massage; most careful cooking, both rich or dietetic as required; an entertainer for general
amusement, a library of excellent books, and all the world-wide journals and papers.
GO, IF YOUR DOCTOR SENDS YOU ;
GO, IF YOU WANT A SPELL; or
GO, FOR A BENEFICIAL HOLIDAY.
. MEDLOW BATH is at your door, so why go to New Zealand or Europe? Plenty of von
business-men are making money at the expense of your health. • Spend a little on your health as
a good investment, J
TERMS—From £,2 2s. upwards.
Beautiful Home Decorations
m
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘‘OUU FAVORITE” COLO ESfAMEt (Washable) -Kich and
a'ii able :ts lealgoid. \\ ithstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture,: Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
?to. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOMiV EVASIEJLS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surtace for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article. ”
8,11,1 EIVAMEE. In White, Ilose, Ivory
and Nile Green. V ithstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come oil. tor sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used ia this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDGRFER EROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE COLD PAINT, “RAPOLIY •’ FLOOR
ST .::rs, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMIL, Etc.
LU
£
ctf
£«!
ca
m•
Posted Is. Id,
Post Free.
WATS ROUS ENGINE t WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines * Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c., * c .
Sole Agent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
OSTRICH PLUMES
IILERS
Black, White,
Cream, Natu-
ral, or Black
tipped with
White.
Li ngth 10 inches.
Post
Free.
Note This —Every line we sell is dressed
from the raw material at our own factory.
Direct from the farm to you.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST POST FREE.
m
p IVEN
U AWAY
to Advertise
our
I OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips, or
Black tipped with white
A Marvel of Cheapness
Write to-day. Send Postal
Notes. Price List Pree.
ss
yjj
From the
Famous Farms
of S. Africa.
Black, White,
Cream,
Natural, cr
Black tipped
with White.
10/6
Post
Free
(Length
15 inches.)
The Best Yalue in Australia.
They look soft and graceful, therefore
eminently becoming for young and old.
An Aid to Beauty.
SSfc
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black Tipped with
White.
Length 12 inches.
2 for 10/-
Post free.
<As illustrated).
No woman who cares about her appearance
can afford to be indifferent to Ostrich Plumes —
an aid which helps to her attainment of beauty.
NATURAL OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 21/- LENGTH I* YARDS.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP.
Dept. P., Corner Strand Arcade, PUTT ST., SYDNEY
Also at Cor. Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne. Mention Tin? BUM,]?™.
Don’t wait till Xmas
to present yourself or friend with a
Fountain Pen.
A boon to the Business Man,
the Cleric, Lawyer, Doctor,
Student, Litterateur.
«r Artist.
m
m
m
m
m
m
Lasts
for Years.
“SWAN” PENS are fully guaranteed.
Sold by all Stationers. Jewellers and Importers.
Catalogue post free
Mabie, Todd & Bard,
93, Cheapside, London, E.C.
m
Medicated
TABLETS.
If not obtainable, write, enclosing stamps, to
THE GREAT NEW ZEALAND CURE
For Coughs, Colds, Catarrh, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption.
Recommended by the N.Z. Health Department, and
acknowledged by Specialists to be the Greatest Lung'
Food of the day. Sold by Chemists at 1/6 and 2/6 tin.
BJORNSTAD & STACEY, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FOR
AND
NOVELTIES
m
V *
WITH
Eli Di
USED BY
POST ;
fr WE REGISTER Eg.-’
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s Gd dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZIN3ARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Is; posted 1/3.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-To-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Dokelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is.. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Datk Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, Gd each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels. 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil is Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. . Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is;
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Mmfaddrs’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of p>occaccio, Heptameron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish,
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise:
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Rf,pairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder,, Is and Is 3d.
Flashlights on Japan, by Dr. Maloney, 6d, post Bd.
Goo and My Neighbor, 9d, post Is. Tom Mann on
Socialism, 3d, post 4d. Shanty Entertainment, Is.
Bothner’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical. Test. : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, Is6d. Stolen Sweets. Is6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover's Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Age of Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is.
2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Snow, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor, Is.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Usef.uJ,.and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Marbied. 1 NO. 7 : Advanced Literature.
GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent lioad, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasiteß of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <& Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poikgd'kstkb & Truman,
71 Old Kent Hoad, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
REE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
__ „ PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
PR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility,. and. their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh Si.,
s~sriDiNrE3r.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of iRiEGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried' in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS oi SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address f A. MINER, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.


IN HOT CLIMATES
where a good antiseptic soap is oftert
more a necessity than a luxury,
CALVERT’S
20 per cent
Carbolic Soap
has a ready sale, on account of its
refreshing qualities, and the protec-
tion its use gives against mosquito
bites. It contains 20% Crystal Car-
bolic, and is useful for insect bites
or stings, ringworm, itch, &c.
Calvert’s Disinfecting Powder
is guaranteed to Contain 15% Carbolic and
so is cheap to Use as it need only be lightly
Sprinkled to destroy noxious and unpleas-
ant odours and prevent the approach of
infection, j lb,, 1 lb. and 2 lb. tins.
F. G. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
England*
The London Treatment
FOB THE CUBE OF
ALCOHOLISM and NARCOTISM.
THIS is a GENUINE Up-to-date and
PERMANENT CURE for the Excessive
Use of Drugs, and Drink Habit. This is the
latest and most satisfactory treatment that has
ever been placed before the public of Austra-
lasia, and is in no way connected with the
so-called Gold Cure. Pamphlet containing
full particulars will be sent post free.
Address : H. W. BUTTREY,
Home Bush, Masterton, N.Z
(P.O. Box 121, Masterton, N.Z.)
I
The Unirersal Remedj for Aciditj of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Grarel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
-Jr.OSS.Ti®
DINNEF
RDS
CNESIA
m
•Si
I
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu ation
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
£2.fO to SB
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Kim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
200
all makes,
good as new,
£1 to £2.10
EARN A CYCLE
Great factory clearance sale at ha f factory price*.
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
wan'edineach district. Large profits easily " ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our specie/ ' ffer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c.. halt prices.
MEAD CYCLE GO - Dep*. 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
mm
*
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as •• run-down ” cr “out of sorts." Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
0 s
>v
.
V*
mm
FREE TO MEN UNTIL CURED
a
V
jm
'i'lwSHir '
• /
'"imSuhin""'"
DS. AUSTIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
Is sold on this Basis to Men and
Women everywhere: Not to he
paid for until the Cure is Complete.
The Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only remedy in the
world which can be sold oh such a plan. It is the only
never-failing cure for Rheumatism, Lumbag-o, Weak Back
and Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder and Stomach
Troubles; in fact, all Chronic Diseases of Men and
Women. It cures after all other remedies have failed.
Why? Because it restores nerve life, anihial vitality,
warmth and vigor to all the weakened parts.
■*
Drugs only Stimulate, Dr. Austin’s
Electric Beit gives Lasting Strength.
Its Cures are Permanent.
pay whew cueed.
You pay only when cured, if you can offer reasonable security. Failure to cure costs you nothing'. The
Dr. Austin Beit is warranted on a bond of £lOOO to give a stronger current, last longer, and to cure quicker
than any other electric body appliance made. We make no charge for advice, written or personal.
Free Book.
Wiite for our Beautifully-Illustrated Medical Book and Letters from Cured Patients,
sent (sealed) FRETS. WRITE TO-T) \Y. and you will b-' satisfied with the result.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co. f Dept M.
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
N.B. —New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
sujreifi.
ms
w/r&L*
MARKED
aa3*BS@s
Brooches, Rings, etc.
GIVEN
AWAY
To persons of either Sex, sending us their Name and
Address we will forward Free 24 Packets of our
“ Enamel Tooth Powder,” and a similar
number of Coupons. Dispose of these 24 Packets amotig
your acquaintances at the nominal price of Gd each, and .
to each purchaser of a Packet give one Coupon, which
entitles that person to a Tooth Brush Free • The continued systematic use of this
Powder soon induces the growth of a Hard, White Enamel Surface on the Teeth,
and thus prevents Decay, removes Tartar and keeps the gums hard and healthy.
In addition imparts a Delicious Fragrance to the Breath.
We don’t ask you to trust us. WE TRUST YOU.
Return the money obtained from the sale of our Tooth Powders, and ive will at
once forward you Free a?iy prize you may select from the premium list of Solid
Gold Articles which we send with the powders. This offer, made for a
limited period to extend our already large connection, is surely the most liberal ever
maae bv a Reliable Firm. Remember, our Prizes are not Rolled Gold, Gold Filled,
or Gold Pattern, but
(hall marked.) SOLID GOLD « (guaranteed.)
Free.
Write to-daj*)
\
THE DENTAL SPECIALTY CO.,
A G pITT s TREET SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES’
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLED.
IV ELVER FAIL-C.
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW \JO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
HARDY’S
700 Prizes.
Tl NTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.
“Crackajack
The “Crackajack” illustrated below presents not only the very latest improvements,
but is unquestionably the best and most beautiful toned Mouth Organ made.
The Reeds are of best bell metal alloy, tuned by experts. The frames
are of thoroughly seasoned hardwood, the re6d plates are solid
brass, and every reed tongue is securely riveted. The
Tone is perfected by a system of voicing the
reeds, which makes it rich and powerful
in volume, and the reeds are
subjected to a process of
special tuning, so that
each note
out the entire
register is ab-
solutely perfect
The covers are
of heavy brass. ~
heavily plated and
artistically engrav-
ed. It is impossible
to fully describe these
instruments and their
musical qualities.
"'fillT
: :
a i ■?,
MM,mm
*w
m
■r cjqj l
HEKma Cfk Us
» v \ ? l
tim i....«
They must be seen
and used to be
appreciated. We
can recommend
them as being
superior to all
other Mouth
Organs in
appearance,
quality and
tone.
ftOr
,0 s
31*
.C* 1
o*
pw°
ffc«»-
AO^
Made in Four Styles
POSTED TO ANY
ADDRESS IN THE
WORLD FOR 4D.
EXTRA.
No. 1 GracKaiacK Professional, 40 Reeds 3/-
No. 2 Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds • 21-
No. 3 Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds * 1/6
No. 4 Boss Cracker • * • *l/-
ALLAN & CO., 276=278 Collins St., Melbourne.
THE
' ■ :
THE
‘PLUM’
GENTLEMEN, —This razor is superior to any other. It.is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7S. 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZCR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price / S' n F* e Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6tJ. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
r-Ricß -^gi n gi e Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
SOLE AGENTS : CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go,
Ltd.
SYD3XTE
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.


JAS. HENNESSY & CO., COGNAC.
GUARANTEE. Every drop of Jas. Hennessy & Coy.’s well-known ONE
and THREE STAR BRANDIES is Pure Grape Spirit
distilled from Wine only.
CAUTION. .
TARIFF COMMISSION.
. The Public should insist upon having Jas. Hennessy &
Coy.’s original bottle and white and gold label as
shipped by them from Cognac.
Extkact from tiie “Lancet” Special Commission on Brandy: “ According to our view it is just as dishonest to describe grain spirit and its
EXTRACT FROM ms A ™ en^as , brandy , as it would be to ca n ma rgarine ‘ but ter,’ especially bearing m mind the medicinal applications of
brandv and its special adaptability as distinct from all other spirits for the purpose.
THE SUNSHINE OF LIFE
Means Abundant Health, Energy, Vigorous Bodily ayid Mental Activity, accom-
Janied by Will Force and the power to compete with eVeryone in the battle of life,
s this your condition ?
WHY HAVEN’T YOU GOT IT?
Are your Organs Clogged, Weak, or Dilatory ? Do yon throw off the Waste Matters
sufficiently ? You can easily ascertain this, and Tone up the whole Digestive Organs
and Bowels by a course of
LAXATINE,
THE LUBRICATING
LOZENGE LAXATIVE.
The People’s Ideal Aperient, Is. Box.
EASY TO BUY, EASY TO TAKE, PERFECT IN ACTION.
DOES NOT GRIPE OR INCONVENIENCE.
ALL CHEMISTS.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
I» Bulk Mid Botbls »r« universally acknowledged
xo UKarx com:i*i3Tll , iow.
WINES
Bes ‘ °" !,J *
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS* dw.
Kent _ Breweryj SYDNEY,
For The CHILD, The INVALID hnd The AGED.
NESTLE’S MILK
Nestle’s ♦ Milk * Food
BOTH HAVE STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
n
Sold bv
All Jewellers
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EIVIPIRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
'BB3
\Z
Bs2
\ao2
f /
s»
Estab-
-1750.
302
El
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards,
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted ou appliaa
tiou to The Manager.
ÜBEROIP ROOFING
FOR MOTOR BOATS.
A correspondent writes: “For awnings for Motor Boats
** Ruberoid Roofing is admirable/' There are a number
of Motor Boats on Sydney Harbor covered with Ruberoid, The
Houseboat on Middle Harbor is roofed with it. The decks of
several ocean liners are covered with Ruberoid, F. Milham, of
Twickenham, Thames, England, has erected Ruberoid awnings on Motor
Boats built for trading on the River Niger, West Central Africa, RUBEROID
is the roofing of utility.
m
E. RICH & CO., LTP., SydiKY ai)d Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 26.-No. 1330.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1905.
Pkick 6d.
A DUPLICATE PARLIAMENT.
After looking at the notice paper of N.S.W. Assembly “The Bulletin” is convinced that what is most required is two State Parliaments.
The grave-looking gathering in the lower left-hand corner passes laws. The other one attends to the bad language, the sectarian rows and the
motions for adjournment, does any drinking that is necessary, asks questions, makes personal explanations, and demands select committees to
inquire into the reason why railway ganger Jones spoke harshly to Smith in 1902.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
‘‘Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William MacleoD, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
<214 Oeorge-street North, Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
Ry sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
buntings sterling you can have The Bulletin vested,
regularly to you every week for a year .
Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
11 ou> to A ddress fetters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paver
{and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should m no case be addressed to the Editor
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
always is person may not there; the official
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
ihc contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
Ihe Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge m the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political
bocial,or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
{those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
denticf mUn ™ at ™ nS re d ar( led as strictly confi-
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
Mb. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded without stamps
lor return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lilaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
•—-i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ■which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 28 Riebeck Street , Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
H. R. Harrison, Johannesburg; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia ; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., n Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
S^xzllelz/ri,
THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1905.
ASSISTED IMMIGRATION.
A few days ago Dr. Aetiiue, M.L.A., pounded
the gong of warning and blew fiercely on the
trumpet of admonition in a Sydney hall under the
lamentable auspices of the “ British Empire
League.” His text was that Australia is in
danger, and on that text many bitter sermons can
fitly be preached. Australia is in deadly danger.
It is the most solitary outpost of the white man.
It has a mere shred of population, and it is an
object of envy to at least one powerful State, and
that an Asiatic State. It has no navy to defend
it and not much of an army. For want of a navy
and at least two transcontinental railways, fully
half its coast can be more easily attacked from
.Japan than defended from Australia; Port Darwin
is three weeks sail from Nippon, and from three
to six months’ tramp from the end of the nearest
railway that can bring up men from the two
strongest States—Victoria and N.S.W. And on
top of all this, Australia is a country almost
without arms and ammunition, without iron and
steel works, without means to make its own rifles,
artillery and cartridges, without mills to supply
its people with clothing when outside supplies are
cut off, without a hundred different kinds of
manufactures which a country that is so liable to
be cut off should have. It is even a land that
doesn’t make its own railway rolling-stock except
to a very small extent, and what it does is largely
a mere fitting together of imported parts. It
is so overwhelmed with debt that it could
hardly raise a war-loan at 10 per cent, interest
to meet an emergency. And its dependence
is on Britain 16,000 miles away Britain
where the army is admittedly one great dry-rot,
and where the navy is being called in from all
parts for the security of the imperial capital, just
as the legions were called in when Rome began to
lose confidence in its destiny as the mistress of the
world.
* * » *
Under these circumstances, it is no wonder that
a call begins to arise for assisted immigration.
Australia wants men and women and children of
the white race—for preference English, Irish,
Scots, Scandinavians, Danes, Hollanders, Ger-
mans, and Frenchmen—the races that lead the
world in courage and intelligence, and that have
filled history with the records of what they can do
in time of trouble. Australia is the remotest
white man’s country that these Europeans
can resort to,, and in many cases the
cost of coming here is prohibitive. Therefore
it is quite possible that Australia will have to take
to assisted immigration again on a large scale—a
1 .rger scale than ever before. There is no reason
why Australia should not go in for assisted immi-
gration on a large scale, provided always that it
pays the assistance out of revenue, and that it
provides abundance of work for the immigrants.
When the country practically buys immigrants it
gains the right to select its immigrants— to pick
those who are sound in mind and body, indus-
trious, of good character, and acquainted with
some useful trade. Assuming that such immi-
grants are brought put here at £l2 per head, each
one of them—always provided that there is pro-
fitable work waiting for him on arrival—at once
shoulders some £57 of our famous and wonderful
f r> lC That means a profit to Australia
of £45 in one act—provided it has profitable
work for the immigrant to do. The same new
arrival at once begins to be a taxpayer at the
rate, even allowing for the fact that there are
many taxes from which the poor are exempt, of,
say, £2 per head-provided the country has
profitable work for him to do so that he can pay
taxes. That represents a dividend of fully 16 per
cent, on the money invested in him. The profit
is magnificent—again provided that Australia has
profitable work awaiting its immigrant.
* * * *
But these results cannot be achieved by the
well-worn joke of “ putting them on the land.”
ihe immigrant who has hardly anything save his
muscle, his grit, and a certain amount of intelli-
gence and that is the kind of man who mostly
wants to leave his own country—is quite unable to
go on the land unless the State finds him
transportation, seed, tools, material for fencing
and house-building, and food and clothes for hi m-
self and his family for a year, or, perhaps, two
years, if the land has to be cleared. His taxes
would also have to be remitted for a time, and
there is always a chance that he would fail at first
through ignorance of our droughty conditions, and
need more assistance. To bring out immigrants
to build up the manufactures that we so badly need
might cost £l2 per head ; to bring out these same
immigrants and put them on the land would pro-
bably cost £5O per head. Moreover, to cry out for
putting men on the land because our country is in
danger is the mere habit of the parrot that has got
its meaningless sentence by rote. If Australia
falls before some foreign invader, want of food
will never be the primary cause of its fall.
It will fall for the want of a navy and an
army, for want of shipbuilding yards, steel and
iron works, arms and ammunition factories, for
want of works where it can make its own rails and
railvvay .material so as to keep its lines of com-
mumcation open, for want of its two transconti-
nental railways so that it can convey troops to
outlying points of danger, for want of factories
where they make clothing and the material for
clothing—for want, in short, of almost everything
except food. It is a sorry joke, because Australia
is unarmed, and unprepared, to propose to merely
rush in men to grow more wheat, which can only
be sold at a low price in a precarious market
16,000 miles away, and which, if the command of
the sea is lost, as it must be before Australia will
be in serious danger, cannot be sold at all. Yet
Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., when he delivered liis stir-
ring address last week, had nothing more than
this to propose. And after talking about bringing
m some five or six million people in the next 20
years, the only suggestion he had to make as
regards finding employment for all this host was
the unutterable bathos of setting aside “ alternate
W' ™ n scru h country of
* * * *
The fact that Australia wants many more strong
white citizens of a fighting stock is taking hold of
this country. It is so obvious a fact that it must
take hold. And the first day that Britain is in
trouble, and the first day that Asia begins to
knock hard at our door and demand admittance,
what is now a calm, indifferent sort of belief will
become a panic-stricken conviction. It is better
to move now and not wait for the panic. In any
case, it is almost certain that a great immigration
movement will come. The question is whether it
is to be a Democratic movement or a Tory
movement. If the progressive party takes it up,
the first duty is to suppress the bulk of our imports
by a 50 per i cent, tariff; to create, by that and
every other possible means, every kind of industry
that the country is capable of, and as our own
unemployed won’t one-tenth fill the demand thus
created, to bring out, on wholesale lines, white men
of good character—British preferred, but only as a
matter of preference—to fill the want, paying their
passages, when necessary, out of revenue. Then
to feed these, and maintain a surplus of food for
export, it is necessary to open up' State lands
where the State has land in accessible and decently
watered country, and by a heavy graduated land-
tax and a compulsory resumption system to force
private estates on the market at a reasonable
price. It is not necessary to give away
the land, nor even to lend very much aid to
except by a State Land Bank system.
Where good, accessible, well-watered country
is available on fair terms, and there is a
market for the produce, the independent settler
has never yet been wanting, and until he is
wanting, the question of giving away the land
doesn’t arise. Such an immigration policy might
double Australia’s population in a very few years.
It would enable Australia to show the world that
it is possible, with progressive legislation, to have
manufactures without having slums, paupers, and
deformities. It would reduce our unemployed
instead of increasing them. It would, in a
sense, halve the awful burden of the Public
Debt; by doubling the population without
adding to the aggregate liability the debt
per head is diminished 50 per cent. It would
vastly increase the revenue bv doubling the num-
ber of taxpayers, arid that “should provide the
means for creating a really serviceable navy, for
training the whole adult male population to arms,
and for building the two transcontinental railways
one of which, by making the Northern Territory
a splendid asset instead of a bankrupt dead
weight, would more than pay for itself, provided
Australia had people to settle in the Territory.
And Australia, under these conditions, wouid
have men to form an army and man a fleet, and
would manufacture within its own borders all the
essentials of defence.
* * * *
That is the prospect of a great assisted immi-
gration scheme run on Democratic principles, and
with the supply of abundant and profitable work
for the people who are here already, and for the
people who are to come, set down as the first
essential Unfortunately, the Labor party in
politics shows no sign of moving, and the Demo-
cratic party in politics which is outside the Labor
ranks is not strong enough to force any movement
by itself, bo the immigration theory is falling
into the hands of Tories, Freetraders, big landl-
ords, importers, Jingoes, flag-flappers, nigger-
labor men, sweaters, borrowers and Empire
League people. They are pasting their advertise-
me,nt,on a i tl( l using it as their especial property
and how valuable a property it-may be to them
sh ? w - . If a day of real panic
comes, and the immigration movement is by
that time firmly associated with Toryism
it may be sufficient of an advertisement
to bring a very bad kind of Toryism into
power all over Australia. The idea of the
class which is now running the immigration theory
is, first of all, to resort to the old, bad, ruinous
dodge of borrowing money with which to pay the
passage-money of the new arrivals. The idea of
even putting up such a trifle as £250,000 a year to
help in making Australia stronger for defence is
beyond its petty, unpatriotic comprehension, and
its first inspiration is to load this incredibly mort-
gaged community with more debt. Most of it
wouldn’t do with one bangle less at dinner-time,
or expose one less knob of its spine in evening
dress, or pull through with one less flunkey, or one
less bottle of champagne, if its country were sink-
ing to perdition. Then it doesn’t contemplate stop-
ping imports and creating great manufactures. A
large section of it lives by imports, and a still larger
section recognises that the artisan class, which
a manufacturing policy would greatly increase,
is the strength and support of Labor in politics.
It hasn t the remotest dream of cutting up its
large estates to promote closer settlement. Its
idea is just to bring people in wholesale and turn
them loose. Some of them, in the struggle for a
crust, would cultivate its land cheaply. Some of
them would take up the rich landowner’s farms
at almost any rent which held out the prospect of
a margin, however small, for subsistence. And
when population was greatly increased by artificial
means, with no attempt to provide a corresponding
increase of employment, the rest of the new
population would provide cheap and servile
employees of all kinds. Incidentally the in-
creased population would do something to
supply increased means of defence, but
there is hardly a mention, in any utterance on the
subject, of serious military or naval preparation,
or of any attempt to put the country in a position
to manufacture its own means of defence. The
talk is all of more population—population that is
to hit the invader with a hoe, or throw a clod or a
turnip at him.
* * * *
■ ™ a “ att< ? r . of urgency that the Labor men
m f ederal politics should combine with the Demo-
cratic Protectionists and make the immigration
question, with the questions which hang on to it—
the creation of industries, the breaking up of
great estates, and the establishment of ade-
quate defences—their special weapon. If they
fail to do so the immigration question will
become their enemy’s special weapon. It is an
instrument which may be used in the interests of
land monopoly and low wages, or it may be used
to make Australia a country where there is a more
general diffusion of wealth and a higher standard
of comfort than anywhere else on earth. It is a
business that the Empire League push,
the Tories, importers, borrowers, land monopolists,
and the Stinking Fish party should have been
allowed to take up the cry in the first place, and
use it for their special ends. It is not much of a
cry now, but it may be a deafening one a very few
years hence.
THE LABOR PARTY ORGANISATION.
.The Queensland Labor members have issued a
formal plea for common sense in the methods of
Labor in politics, which will be cordially endorsed
by every Labor party in the Commonwealth. It
has been met with a savage denunciation by the
Queensland Labor paper, but that was to have
been expected. Queensland Worker, if it had
an y perception, would have long ago recognised
that it is on the wrong side on most democratic
questions from the frequency with which the Tory
papers throughout Australia quote its articles
to help their cause. But it either lacks
perception or is s'o vain of its shriek-
power that it must shriek even when every
yell means confusion to its friends and help
to its enemies. The essence of the Queensland
Labor party’s complaint is that its effectiveness
at the polls and in the House is hampered by the
intransigent and reckless attitude of the Political
Labor League conferences. The Queensland Labor
party has to stagger under the burden of an
“objective” which declares for complete Socialism,
though every man outside of a lunatic asylum
fqels that complete Socialism is not within the
range of this century’s practical politics; and
pleads for the modification of that “ objective ” to
the form adopted by the Inter-State Conference
for the Federal Labor party. Further, the Queens-
land party stresses the point that all the great
achievements of Labor in politics have been
effected by prudent alliances, which the Labor
League officials discredit and denounce.
» * * *
This matter of alliances is really the chief point
of difference now between the Labor parties in the
various Parliaments and the Political Labor
League officials. Truly all that has been attained
by Labor of any value has been by alliances.
Watson held office on alliance terms. Price
in S.A. and Daglish in W.A. are now in
power as Labor Premiers with the help of out-
side men. Queensland is being pulled out of the
bog in which a long course of Tory misrule left it
by an alliance between the Labor Party and the
Morgan following. Yet the inter-State Political
Labor Conference at its last session decreed that
no alliances must be entered into except under
obviously absurd and impossible conditions. This
decree, if it is persisted in, and if it is obeyed,
hamstrings Labor in politics! The men in Parlia-
ment cannot co-operate with any friendly section.
The tendency of sympathisers to cOme towards
them is penalised, for to be their friend is to
incur the hostility of Toryism, and to gain
none of Labor’s goodwill. But it is hard
to believe that it will be either persisted in or
obeyed. The great mass of the Labor voters is
with the Labor members in a desire to make the
Labor political movement a practically progressive
one. There are no extreme Socialists to speak of
among the Labor voters ; in N.S. Wales, for three
elections now, the extreme Socialists have run can-
didates of their own and each time scored only a
few dozen votes. Equally is the mass of Labor
voters opposed to any wild-cat Ishmael tactics in
Parliament by which the Labor party will put
itself in a pariah position and condemn itself to
perpetual opposition and perpetual friendlessness.
Practical progress is what the Labor in politics
movement calls for—not shadowy objectives and
hopeless tactics.
* * * *
Why is it, then, that, though the Labor members
and their constituents are the Labor political
movement and think practically the same way on
the points at issue, Labor League Conferences
decide the other way ? The reason is to be found
partly in bad organisation. In N.S.Wales, for
instance, the Labor party has a lien on, roughly,
30 electorates out of 90. Of the remaining 60
there are at least 40 which, to all appear-
ances, will never return a Labor member
while this generation of voters lives. Yet in
each of these 40 a Labor League can be
formed and can secure representation at the
League Conference. Such leagues can do little
t(5 help the movement. But they can'do much to
hinder by forcing on it wil'd -or- impracticable
views. _ Similarly, at the Inter-State Conference
Tasmania, which returns one Labor renreseui-mf, ’
to the federal Parliament, was represented by six
delegates-most of them not Tasmamansbut
Melbourne citizens, who represented nothing but
their own notions. Their votes were generallv
cast to thwart and hamper the Parliament-n-^
party. Additional to the faults due to an'mpeV
feet organisation there is of course, something
to be counted to the fact that the Labor
leaguer is only human— representing a higher
type than most of the rank and file of other
political organisations who, as a rule, to roll
up only when the beer begins to flow but still
only human And he very often cherishes an
ambition to be m Parliament himself, and that
sometimes affects Ins vote. An alliance involving
JLaboi support to a group of outside friends might
deprive a labor league official of a run for the very
seat he has an eye on. Insensibly he finds his view
against alliances strong. There is, too, the man
who isn t in Parliament, and doesn’t hope to be
in, but has a very exaggerated notion of the privi-
leges he confers on the man he helps to put in
and cannot see why that man shouldn’t regenerate
society at the rate of GO reform Acts a year His
want of knowledge makes it impossible for him to
understand the necessities of Parliamentary work
and he is ready to vote for any extreme proposal!
*** * '
The upshot is that, standing between the Labor
members find the Labor constituents, is a small
body ot political managers whose present attitude
threatens the whole' movement with disaster
Ihey insist—or a majority of them—on making
the platform impracticable and refuse to allow to
the Labor parties in Parliament even the
elementary right of deciding on their own tactics
in the Legislature. Clearly that state of things
cannot last. The men in Parliament owe it
to the movement as well as to themselves
to see that their work is effective. In
the last resort they should appeal to their con-
stituents—the Labor voters—over the heads
ot the Labor League’s officials. But that would
be an extreme and in most respects a regrettable
step, for those officials include many sterling
unselfish workers in the cause. Perhaps some
middle cou rse is possible in the direction of
making the Labor League Conferences more
truly representative—reflecting the strength of
the Labor vote rather than the tally of the States
or ot the electorates.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Swinburne’s Water Bill.
Thus a Victorian pressman :
A tall, thin, endless sort of man has been sitting- at the
table of the Victorian Assembly of late, with a huge docu-
rnent spread before him. The man is George Swinburne,
Minister of Water Supply, and the document is his Water
Bill. It is a toss-up whether the Victorian Parliament or
the Victorian community knows least about the said Bill.
It is a legislative anaconda, and contains over 300 clauses.
Probably no one apart from Swinburne has read it right
through ; but the long, thin, slotlike man has got every
clause off by heart. This Bill is so big and so valuable that
the intellect of the ordinary brand of State politician refuses
to button round it. Even Premier Bent admits that he
knows less about it than he knows of the inscription on
Noah’s tomb ; and Murray and Gillott and Cameron
and the other Ministerial cyphers admit that they only
know what Swinburne tells them.
To put it shortly, the Bill is one of the greatest
blows at the joss of Vested Interests that has ever
*« ***" v US J'- ralia '\ p° litics - It goes point blank
for the nationalisation of the water supply of Victoria.
It does it so honestly that the Vic. State House has
reared up and fallen back on itself in a confused heap,
and the Conservative doesn’t know' now' whether he is a
Tory or a Radical. It destroy s all private riparian rights
in one emphatic act. It says that the State shall own all
all, P on fch ? Premises, and shall apportion it as it
thinks fit, and that no Rich Person shall annex
any river or creek without payment merely because it
has the misfortune to meander through his proputty.
AH rights to water are to be vested in the “Crown,” and
. ro 'Y n 18 n °t to be separated from its moisture bv
anything short of dynamite. Persons who can prove that
they have used water for irrigation purposes for twenty
continuous years will be given 10 years’ further free use
as a bonus for their pertinacity, but the bonus of free
damp ends exactly there. The Victorian Water Trusts
whose financial histories read like an extra-bad balance
sheet of the Bank of Gomorrah, are informed that a large
hearse shall be provided on a certain date, and that the
trusts shall then arise as one corpse and be buried with-
out further argument. The language used by the Trust
fakirs has been simply shocking, and infuriated Shire
presidents have been bounding through the lobbies in
pursuit of Swinburne’s blood; but the long, spiderv
Minister sticks to his Bill. s> p y
It was absolutely necessary that this clean sweep
should be made. Knowing that all water dealt with from
this out is its own exclusive chattel, the State can erect
works with impunity ; and with the knowledge that its
carefullj’-matured plans are not to be burst up and
trampled upon by an ignorant potato-mayor. The State
is going to take over every cent of liability, and will get
square by charging the irrigated lands with a tax. The
Bill tries to get down to the unimproved land value, and
will be a great machine for the breaking up of bloated
estates. The State will peddle moisture to all and sundry ;
and the land-owner can either irrigate with the State
water and pay the tax, or else he can pay the tax and do
a perish. He has got to pay the tax any way. The value
of the land will increase with the population, and in time
the water supply will become a huge national asset.
Swinburne has equipped the “ Crown ” with a perfect
armada of powers and rights. The “ Crown ” may declare
any district an irrig-ation area without consulting the
land-owner, and if the land octopus doesn’t like it
he can make remarks in the background. Lands
are to be divided into three classes. The best are to pav
an irrigation tax of one-fifth of their net annual value
and the worst lands are to pay one-tenth. Intermediate
grades are to pay such rates as the Water Commission
may determine, but the rates shall not be more
or less than the figures mentioned. A permanent
Water Commission is to be appointed, and is
to have supreme control. Local management ceases
automatically with the proclamation of the Act. Under
Turner’s last Water Bill loans were advanced to Trusts
which were to pay 4 per cent, on the balance owing!
with a-half per cent, for a redemption fund. There being
J',° compound interest in Turner’s scheme, this meant
that the State would not get its money back for two
centuries. Swinburne proposes to provide for 44 per
cent, interest and redemption money—to be paid right
through. This will repay the State inside fifty-six years.
Turner’s finance leaked occasionally, but the man with
the long legs and the large, square mind is plugging up
the orifices in a thorough fashion.
The State has had awful trouble in connection with
conipensation for lands taken over for the purposes of
the Irrigation Department. Rapacious land-sharks have
dashed down upon the Department with demands for
thousands of pounds, and have finally taken a few
hundreds. One howled for £2013, and took £950.
Another wanted £5500, and took £667. Another de-
manded £3OO, and was overpaid with £5 ! But the shark
gets very little change out of Geoiioe Swinburne. Not
more than 10 per cent, above the market value is to be
paid for any lands resumed in, the future. The landowner,
who has sucked away the Government’s reservoirs and
has paid nothing, is to be dragged before the mag-istrate
and informed that he is a common defaulter.
There are some estates amounting to 30,000 acres in
extent which will come shortly under the operation of
Swinburne’s measure if it passes, and the irrigation tax
will, it is most probable, automatically sever them into
smaller areas. The only pity is that Swinburne’s Bill is a
State and not a Federal' affair. Federal legislation, on
the lines laid down by that thin, persistent man, would
be one of the greatest b-ws that Australia is likely to
receive this side of the .year 20-JO. " '


B. Smith’s New Idea.
Apparently Spruce Myth’s idea of himself and
his fellow members of the Australian Parliament is
that they are a sordid crowd, who only struggle
for office because of the extra money that comes a
Minister’s way. The result is a motion, to come
on next month, setting out that the House of
RSps. is of opinion that it should get £5OO a
year instead of £4OO, that Ministers should on y
get £lOOO instead of £1650, while the Prime
Minister’s £2lOO should come down to £1250.
Spruce Myth argues in his motion that it s a bad
thing for Australia to have these frequent changes
of Ministry, and that there wouldn t be so
many if the salaries were levelled off in this
fashion. And this is the Spruce Myth who,
for all these years, has been holding up
Socialism as a shameful, ruinous, unscientific, in-
equitable and generally blastiferous thing because
it tended towards a general dead-level m the
matter of pay ! This is he who has talked in w'oids
of seven syllables about the reward of industry,
and the fit and proper encouragement of enter-
prise, and who has pictured civilisation as coming
to a dead-stop if the levellers had their way. Now
he thinks that all industry isn’t good, and that
enterprise of some sorts may be a national cala-
mi tv ; and he will risk hanging up the march of
civilisation for a while if they will knock £lOO off
Deakin’s salary and tack it on to his own. But,
as a secondary consideration, what about that pre-
posterous extravagance whereof Spruce Myth’s
friends, the Sydney State I l ights party, which is
mostly the old Freetrade party working under an
alias, make such a mouthful ! What Mr. Smith
proposes, in short, is to cut £5400 off Ministers
salaries and put £ll,lOO on to members’ salaries,
which will make the Federal machine cost £5700
a year more than it has been doing hitherto. Ihe
Bulletin cordially approves of adding £ll,lOO to
members’ salaries; but there is this difference
between it and the State I rights crowd Ihe
Bulletin wants to give the Australian Parlia-
ment enough work to do, and enough power
and responsibility, to earn its higher salary,
while the State Frights crowd is busy lopping
off its powers whenever it sees a chance,
and reducing its authority, and blocking
any increase of power. The increase of members
pay should, in short, be justified, not by cutting
down the salaries of the men who have to do the
administrative work for Australia, but by cutting
down the powers (and number) of the State autho-
rities who have to attend to the bridge and the
culvert. And, anyhow, is there any sort of proof
at all that (apart from his own party) the struggle
for office is a mere struggle for pay ? As to his
own party, Mr. Smith no doubt knows best; but
as to the Labor party, at any rate, it gave proof
that it didn’t consider pay only, by throwing up
office when it might easily have carried on, and
when it certainly would have carried on if it
hadn’t had a much more tender regard
for principle than Mr. Smith’s leader has
ever shown. Mr. Smith’s party is, in fact,
the only Federal party which has ever had to
be thrown out of office by the scruff of the neck
—it is the only party which, therefore, lies under
suspicion of regarding office as merely a matter of
pay, instead of principle. And Australia s remedy
against that kind of party is simply not to elect
it. To punish some other party (and incidentally
Australia) for Mr. Smith’s party’s lack of prin-
ciple is too grotesque a piece of injustice to be
seriously considered.
+
The N.S.Willis “Reform” Governjnent.
The people of N.S.Wales, who were pen-jostled
into putting a “Reform” Government into power
at last elections, deserve now a cynical congratula-
tion on their bargain. The very least to be
expected from a Reform Government is a jealous
care for the purity of public administration, and
this Reform Government—in addition to going
back on its pledges in regard to economy, the
partial stoppage of borrowing, and Local Govern-
ment—is now recognised by nine citizens out of
ten as responsible for the fact that the inquiry into
the Lands Department scandals is water-logged
and drifting. The indictment against the
Government made last week by the Labor party
loft no loophole of escape from that conclusion.
The position is that there are certain facts known,
and certain conclusions which seem to be the
inevitable outcome of the said facts. These conclu-
sions are in most cases only suspicions, and it
would not be fair to condemn any man or body of
men on any single circumstance of suspicion. But
When there are several sets of facts all pointing
irresistibly to the same suspicion, it attains prac-
tically the standing of a proved truth. Half-a-
dozen incidents in regard to the paralysed Lands
inquiry are mysterious and unexplainable until
the explanation is hazarded that the Government
wished to hamper and smother the proceedings.
Allowing that explanation to be “the unknown
quantity,” and every problem is clear as daylight.
When the Sims-Browne facts were disclosed, there
was prompting to drastic action which would have
either broken up a nest of robbers or shown that
the Lands Administration was pure, and that the
magnetic land agent was able to get enormous
fees from clients purely because of their folly.
The Government took no such action. Why ?
After much delay and pressure the Government
was flogged into appointing a Commission of
Inquiry, with very limited scope and powers.
The counsel representing the Crown was a
man with no training to push home an inquiry,
and he treated witnesses as gingerly as if
they were precious china. Why ? When the
demand for a more searching inquiry grew
strenuous, the Government delayed action
until Mr. Willis, the one witness who could
throw light on some of the matters under inquiry,
was out of the Commonwealth. Why ? Mr.
Willis, when the Lands inquiry was getting
warm, made arrangements to leave Australia, and
drew up, in the office of Messrs. Carruthers and
Wilson, a power of attorney in favor of his wife,
making Mr. Carruthers’ partner his trustee.
Mr. Carruthers was in complete ignorance (he
affirms) of this document. Why, knowing that
Mr. Willis was a client of his office and that Mr.
Willis had employed him personally in at least
one land matter, did Mr. Carruthers allow
his business to be run in such a way as
to permit of that astonishing ignorance? Half-
a-dozen more such queries may be pro-
pounded, and to all of them a reply
is forthcoming if it is presumed that the
Government is not sincere in the task of inquiring
into the Lands scandals. Without that presump-
tion it is difficult to find any adequate explanation
for a whole series of happenings. That explana-
tion, 'therefore, must inevitably be accepted.
Ministers may explain. Those in Parliament who
have had money out of this Lands business may
protest. Parliament may accept explanations and
protests. But public opinion refuses to be misled.
If there were a general poll to-morrow on this
issup, probably not one man who voted with the
Government last week would be returned again.
With the assurance of public approval, and with
the knowledge that, as a consequence of its action,
the N.S.W. Government seems at last to be
galvanised into some activity, the Labor party
must, for the present, be satisfied. Its plea
for honesty has been blackguarded m Parliament
and in the daily press, which takes up the curious
attitude that though the Government is gravely
blameable it must still be supported. As Mr.
Holman neatly put it, the press has
laid down the new doctrine that it is better to have
Class Government and dishonesty than a Labor Govern-
ment and clean politics.
But the public gratitude is keen. Last week in
Sydney the most virulent Tories could be heard
praising the Labor party as the champions of
clean politics. On that foundation the party can
build up a solid platform for the next appeal to
the people if it has the sense to put forward, sin-
cerely, a genuine reform platform.
*
The Pay of the Politician.
“He had sacrificed his private and home life
trying to serve the country.” That was one of
the reasons given by N.S.W- Attorney-General
Wade last week in condonation of the action of
his Government in hampering the inquiry into the
Lands scandals. The same sort of plea is put
forward by Premier Carruthers, who speaks
with a sob of the immense personal sacrifices he
has to make to be N.S. Wales Premier, and by
many others. There is sometimes a good deal of
truth in these statements. The spectacle of the aged
politician turned out to die on the poorest of pas-
tures is common enough in Australia, and exceed-
ingly pitiful. Some day a strong Government, of
such honest reputation as to be safefrom the imputa-
tion of sordid motives, will set itself to remove the
necessity for such scandals. The pay of the
politician should be sufficient to keep him in
decent comfort, should be rigorously protected
against cadgers, and should be supplemented by a
pension system for all those who have given up a
material portion of their lives to the public service.
Then there would be no occasion for the politician
to whine that the country is sweating
him, and that he can’t afford to be too
honest, as the money doesn’t run to it. In
very many cases at present the whine is not
justified, and a man makes more at politics
than at any other calling he might adopt. But
that does not alter the fact that the pay of the
politician is not sufficient to command capacity
and honesty, and to give those qualities an
assurance of respectable comfort. The pay, there-
fore, should be raised, and accompanied by a well-
considered pension scheme. With the introduc-
tion of a system of elective Ministries this would
not be so difficult as at present, since that system
would do away, to a great extent, with the occa-
sional and inefficient Minister.
Holman M.L.A. Once More.
The Bulletin receives still another letter from
Holman M.L.A. (it has already published two),
but the document is, in the main, so careful an
evasion of the points at issue as to be hardly worth
space. It contains three more screams about
Pierpont Morgan, who seems to be such an
obsession of Mr. Holman’s that that gentleman
really thinks Pierpont Morgan is the only
person and the United States the only place on
earth. The letter also wants to know why The
Bulletin accuses people of Mr. Holman’s way of
thinking—the people who object to private
industries and are “prepared to wait’
indefinitely, in a weary sort of way, before
starting State industries—of callousness to-
wards the unemployed, seeing they backed up
O’Sullivan in temporarily staving off the
unemployed difficulty by loading posterity with
the cruel burden of still more debt so that the
present generation might be pauperised on loan
works. Also he points out that his party is pre-
pared to tackle the unemployed problem by having
a few railway engines built locally (presumably
out of loan money), which is about equal to one
drop of water in a desert. As for the questions
really at issue, it seems impossible to extract an
answer from the evasive Holman. Some of these
questions are as follows ; —-
(1) Seeing that Mr. Holman claims to be an unbiassed
person, with an equal scorn for Freetrade and Protection,
why did he tell that glaring lie that the aliens in England
were mostly Germans fleeing to a Freetrade country from
their own High Tariff one ?
(2) Why does he reserve all his scoffs for the Australian
manufacturer, even when the manufacturer pays decent
wages for fair hours of work and is not himself a rich man ,
and why does he save none of his scorn for the rich im-
porters—and the richest man in Sydne3% if not in Austra-
lia, is mainly an importer—who pay far worse wages?
(3) Why does he always strive to scare the public away
from creating Australian manufactures by yelling exclu-
sively about the United States, where private railway
ownership and the want of industrial legislation but
most of ail private railway ownership—has enabled great
and tyrannical Trusts to arise. France and Maoriland are
two examples to prove that with State ownership, or careful
State control of railways, great industries can be built up
without the Trust evil, but wild horses won’t drag Mr.
Holman into even mentioning these places or recognising
tll (4) Why all this Pierpont Morgan ? Rockefeller is a
much bigger and richer man than P. Morgan. Is the
reason whv he is never held up as Mr. Holman’s awful
example that he represents the Harvester combine, and is
doing the dirty work of Freetrade in trying to break up
an Australian industry ?
(5) When Mr. Holman professes to think that the estab-
lishment by Protection of privately-owned industries—in
default of those State-owned industries that are so slow to
arr i V e—will necessarily, despite Labor legislation and
State railway control, iead to exactly the same evils as in
the United States, with its private railways and with
hardly any industrial legislation, what does he mean ?
The most apparent meaning is that Mr. Holman has no
faith in his party’s industrial legislation, and is only fool-
ing the people when he advocates it.
(6) Mr. Holman has distinctly put forth his scheme of
State-owned industries as something that will do away
with both Freetrade and Protection —as a third alterna-
tive, in fact. When State-owned industries get beyond
building a few locomotives out of loan moneys, and take
to manufacturing things on a large scale for the supply of
the public, is it proposed to compete against the importer
by employing cheap labor for long hours and so under-
selling him, or by levying Protective duties against him?
And how came it, after 15 years or so of alleged thinking-
over the matter, that Mr. Holman didn’t see that even
State-owned industries must be run either under Free-
trade or Protection, and that State industry isn’t a third
alternative? . '
(7) Does Mr. Holman regard the pawning of our State
lands and our State railways to private money-lenders
compatible with any true devotion to the principle of
collective ownership? Also does he consider it the part
of a man to live by selling his own children into financial
bondage, and does he think there is anything .democratic
in a system whereby the son of Labor is born to toil all
his life to pav interest to Pierpont Morgan, or some such
bad character, and to do this simply because his fathers
were too lazy or too incapable to help themselves ? For
the interest that has to he made good out of taxation in
N.S.W. is getting to be a fearsome item.
(8) How long is Mr. Holman going to be “content to
wait” before he even attempts to start State-owned
industries—apart from building a handful of locomotives
for the State railways out of loan money ? When is he or
his party going to start a real crusade for the creation of
a single State-owned industry for supplying the people
with any of the necessaries of life? And when did Mr.
Holman "seriously urge the starting of any such industries ?
These are questions that can’t be answered by any
vague eloquence about Pierpont Morgan, and if
Mr. Holman proposes to answer them, he had
better leave that familiar obsession out of the
case.
Minister Ltne’s Bill for the establishment of an
iron industry provides for the payment of £304,000
in bonuses, spread over five years, for the manu-
facture of iron, steel, galvanised iron, wire net-
ting, tubes, and reapers and binders. Wages are
to be decided by the Federal Arbitration Court;
a fair price, which must not be exceeded, is to be
fixed for the sale of the goods; and the State
within which the works are situated may buy
them after the bounty period expires, at a price
to be fixed by the Federal Arbitration Court. Itisa
question whether, taking everything into account,
the bonuses are large enough. To take only one
example, the bonus which hI.S.W. paid secretly,
by reduced railway rates, to the hay, straw and chaff
industry alone, for the year to 30th June, 1901, was
£313,000; that is to say, if hay, straw, and chaff
had been charged at the same rate as most manufac-
tured goods they would have paid that much more
in railway freight. This was for one year in one
State, not for five years in the whole Common-
wealth ; and the producers who get this large
assistance are not bound to pay decent wages—in
fact, they represent a very bad form of Sweating
in Private Enterprise. Private Enterprise steam-
ship companies don’t do this sort of thing. 1 hey
rather charge extra for the hay, straw, and chaff
kind of cargo, which occupies so much extra space
for its weight. In the same year, and in the same
way, N.S. W. aided the grain and flour business
with an unobtrusive bonus or rebate of about
£1,500,000, and the coal and coke industry to the
extent of £1,260,000. These figures make the iron
bonus look a very humble affair.
♦
Vic. Premier Bent’s move in the direction of
settling unemployed on the land on the Danish
principle is being hotly opposed in Right-Thinking
circles on the ground that it will, if successful,
“ attract unemployed from all over Australia, if
not from other countries.’’ The very same people
who are now putting forward this argument are
those who have been agitating for immigration for
years, and denouncing Federal legislation for pre-
venting the admission of Asiatic scum. In their
last utterance, they give their case away. Under
the Danish scheme safeguards are provided suffi-
cient to prevent wasters fooling with allotments
for a few months, only to become State burdens in
the end. Only strong, intelligent men with proofs
of at least five years’ experience in agriculture are
taken into consideration. Anyhow, it is only the
success of the idea which will attract anybody to
Victoria. The agitation for increased immigra-
tion, on the principle that if the people are here
the work will come, stands revealed as a cruel and
heartless endeavor to exploit the desperate poverty
of men and women in older world centres, beside
which the tactics of longshore crimps are benevo-
lence itself. The Right-Thinking folk, by their
last admission, show that at no time did they want
the immigration of people who had work to come
to, but only wanted men to swarm in at random
and, by becoming stranded, reduce wages. As for
Bent’s scheme, The Bulletin’s opinion of it is
that, if he makes it a success, Bent should have a
statue, assuming there is a block of marble broad
enough.
O
Book-Arcade Cole, of Melbourne, issues to his
customers brass medals inscribed thus: “Acquaint-
ance only required. If all men throughout the
world were acquainted with each other there
would be no war.” This bright saying doubtless
explains why families never quarrel, why there
are never any civil wars, and why you always like
a man better the more you know him. In fact,
Cole’s theory is that everybody improves on
acquaintance however dirty he may be, and how-
ever much he may attempt to make love to your
wife as the acquaintanceship progresses. Perhaps
the sentiment would read better if it were reversed.
For instance, the Chilian is regarded, by some
folks who are acquainted witli him, as the fire-
brand of South America, but he gets on well
enough with the Thibetans and other people who
never heard of him. It would be interesting to
know if Cole never dislikes people when he be-
comes acquainted with them, and if he only hates
people that he doesn’t know at all. If these things
are not so, then he is a living evidence that his
own tin medal is an ass.
Senator Pulsford has taken up the cause of the
yellow races, and pleads in the press for a repeal
of the law against Japanese immigration. Apart
from the point that there is no law against
Japanese immigration, but that the Jap comes
under the same provisions as all other folk—this
pro-Asiatic falls in badly when he cites the
ex-Consul for Japan in Sydney
An impression appears to exist in some quarters, and
to find voice in certain sections of the Australian press,
that Australia is in danger of an influx of Japanese immi-
grants. I have always endeavored to show that this im-
pression is altogether erroneous, and in support of this
position I have been requested by the Minister for Foreign
Affairs in Tokio to bring under your notice some clauses
of the Japanese Act (passed in 1.896, and amended
in 1901) for the regulation and control of emigration
and the protection of Japanese emigrants.
Under this Act it is provided that no Japanese, may go
abroad without first applying to the Government (in
writing) for permission to do so, and his application must
be accompanied by a guarantee, signed by two or more
responsible sureties, for the good conduct of the emigrant
while abroad.
Now the Jap. immigrant best known in Australia
is the girl of gay brown habits. Have all the
Jap. women who haunt the dens of Northern
Australia guarantees of good conduct? If so,
what is good conduct within the meaning of the
Act in Japan ?
Kelly, M.H.R., has a notice on the business
paper of the Representatives:—
(1) That all naval expenditure by the Commonwealth
of Australia should be towards an Imperial Navy, on the
efficiency and adequacy of which in time of war will
depend her security from serious danger ; and
(2) That the Commonwealth of Australia’s contribution
to the Imperial Navy should be doubled.
Yet it has just been explained to Australia for
the dozenth time —this time by Commander
Brownlowe —that the British fleet will almost
certainly be withdrawn from Australian waters in
war time, and our coasts left without defence. Mr.
Kelly’s idea is that Australia, instead of defend-
ing itself with a fleet, should defend itself with
£4oo,ooo—as if a small enemy with one cruiser
couldn’t disperse £400,000 with a single shot. A
great deal of the Kelly variety of Jingoism, how-
ever, isn’t real Jingoism. It is rather the laziness
and incapacity of beautifully-dressed young men
with swift motor-cars, who haven’t an idea how to
set about a defence policy, and find it easier to
say that we don’t want one. It takes brains to
put a country in a state of defence, but anybody
can vote £400,000.
Carruthers has now gone back on Local Govern-
ment for N.S.W. He has behind him a party
large enough to push his present measure through,
but he has gone out of his way to inform the
Assembly that he “is not making this a party
measure.” That is the plainest possible intima-
tion that his majority need not vote for the Bill
unless it likes ; that it certainly won’t be rounded
up by the Government Whip to vote for it; and
that it need not be deterred from voting against
the Bill by any fear of throwing out the Ministry,
for the Ministry, not having made the Local
Government Bill a party question, will not resign
if it is lost. In so many words Carru-
THERS says: “Don’t vote for the Bill if
you feel the slightest inclination the other way ;
the blessed Bill doesn’t matter.” Yet at last
election Local Government was almost the first
item on Joey’s programme. It was a party ques-
tion then—a question of vital importance, and in
these days Joey was so madly enthusiastic about
it that he would have climbed over the dead body
of a profitable land agent to get at the Bill. His
assurances that Wise wasn’t in dead earnest about
his Local Government Bill, and that he (J oe) was
the only man who would perish in the last ditch
for the cause, were pathetic. And now J oe is the
same treacherous wet rag as usual, the same wisp
of sodden blotting-paper, the same moist collar
hanging on a line.
♦-
Brisbane Courier and other people who are
barking against Arbitration are gleefully pointing
out that, in N.S. W., the average number of hands
employed in factories from 1900 to 1904 was
60,779, 66,230, 65,633, and 68,036, while the aver-
age wages were £Bl 16s. 10d., £74 13s. 4d.,
£73 ,14s. 9d., and £73 13s. Therefore, of course,
Arbitration has been powerless even to prevent a
shrinkage in wages. Well? All this simply goes
to prove two things. First, it helps to knock out
the Fatman’s stupid notion that Arbitration is a
sort of brigand which makes the employer pay
whether the.industry can afford it or not. Five
thousand times or so it has been pointed out that
Arbitration is a device for fixing wages in a
reasonable way. The Fatman’s claqueurs shrieked,
in reply, that it was an infamous dodge to increase
wages; and when the figures knock the bottom
out of that foolish argument, the claqueurs don’t
go and hide their heads—instead, they say that
they declared all along that Arbitration was a base
device for cutting down pay. And, in the second
place, the figures give a hint to the Labor people
that Arbitration without Protection is like a pint
pot without beer. It’s a beautiful pot, no doubt,
and when the beer is made available it guarantees
that he will get a full, fair pint for his money ; but
until the beer is made available, it' is just so
much waste metal. While the cheap foreigner,
who isn’t under any Arbitration Court,
can compete with the local workmen, then either
the Arbitration Court has to fix wages lovv enough
for the local man to successfully compete With the
foreigner, or the foreigner gets the job. Protection
alone can guarantee the job for the local man;
Arbitration merely comes in then to guarantee
the local man fair pay for the job that Protection
has got for him.
♦
Said Bruce Smith recently
Good seasons are not wholly responsible for a nation’s
prosperity. A country requires something- more than
seasons. * It requires a good name 'with the people outside
—the people who will pour their money in to develop its
industries.
Always that gag about the people outside who will
pour their money in. Australia has, for 50 years
and more, been digging up money in huge quan-
tities. For years it supplied most of the golden
money, and much of the silver, in use in the
British empire. If it would only send away less
to pay for imports—in other words, if it would
have less of Bruce Smith’s Freetrade—it could
develop all the industries the country is Capable
of with its own money. The childish Spruce
Myth idea is that no country has any money
except what some absentee or foreigner “pours
in.” He is always wanting to borrow, or
to “ pour,” or to do something that means
dependence on the foreigner. The world, as
Spruce Myth sees it, is a sort of table round
which all the nations sit passing the same old
shilling from hand to hand—each pouring in the
same old “bob” on its neighbor to develop its
industries, and not one Of them developing its own
industries with its own “bob.” And when the
“ bob ” has gone all round they all rise and say
how prosperous they are. while Spruce Myth
waves the Union Jack in the middle distance and
the gaud mayor of London gives his, blessing from
the background.
i «
That blatant Foreign-trader, Conroy, M.P.,
budded better than he knew when he urged Cus-
toms Minister Lyne to produce the official papers
showing why he had fixed the duty value .of
imported harvesters at £65 instead of the previous
figure, £3B 10s. Lyne promptly handed out what
turned out to be another exposure of the methods
of the International Harvester Combine, and the
treachery to Australia of the Foreign-trade advo-
cates in Parliament. Briefly, the Customs officers
had all along had suspicions about the exceedingly
low invoice prices of these machines, and, on 11th
October, ’O4, after making some small in-
quiries in Argentina and Canada, the invoice
value was fixed at £3B 10s. The American sup-
pliers, needless to say, wanted it fixed at much less.
Nothing further happened till McKay; of the Aus-
tralian Sunshine Harvester Works, got a letter from
his Italian agent, W. de Haan, of Milan. Haan
forwarded a letter, dated 3/4/’O5, from the Massey-
Harris Co.—part of the Combine—offering him
its Italian agency, and quoting the wholesale price
of its machines—the same machines it had hereto-
fore been trying to pass through the Australian
Customs at £29, and had actually passed at
£3B 10s.—at £65; and also repeating the old lie
that “McKay had closed down.” Seeing
that these machines are sold retail at from
£BO to £B5, the £65 figure is probably about
correct. Even as things stand now, the blessed
importer has been shown far more mercy than
justice. He is still given a very fair chance
against the Australian manufacturer.
♦
S. J. Mitchell, one of the Northern Territory
members in the S. Aus. Assembly, intends to
move that, in the opinion of Parliament, the over-
land line should be pushed on north from Oodna-
datta. The idea that needs to be rooted out first
is that the line must be laid in a lump. That
plan means either wholesale borrowing for a work
that certainly won’t pay interest for years, or
wholesale grants of country ; and every land-grant
railway in Australia has been a howling
failure. The line will have to be built
some day, if only for defence purposes; and
it looks at least as much of an Australian as
a South Australian business. If it’s good enough
for S. Australia to offer a foreign syndicate a vast
territory in return for building the line, it dught
to be better business for the State to offer the
Commonwealth the same terms for the gradual
construction of the line; and ;if S. Aus-
tralia can’t conveniently raise the money by
increased taxation, the Commonwealth can. The
best way of all is for the Commonwealth to take
the whole Territory, debts and all, buy up the
existing line from Adelaide to Oodnadatta, finish
the work, and thus own the entire route. And,
while it is about the business, the Commonwealth
can’t do better than acquire all the other Australian
railways and all the other Australian debts.


Cailler’s
OIJB
COMPETITION.
FREE WATCHES
FOR EVERYBODY.
SEND YOUR ADDRESS FOR
SAMPLE AND PARTICULARS.
CAILLER'S,
I Mutual Life Building, Martin Place,
L SYDNEY. ’ ,
Swiss Milk
Chocolate
J
a
&
'J
HAVE STOOD THEI
TEST of TIME
ARE 0«lHG STRONG'
withoutthe aid
OFTSUSTorCPMBINE
The Quality alone
assuring its success
0
Pi?ar«rt«
v sTobae«»
'• * (HAV» <UT)
nr»
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Arrah-na-Pog-ue.”
p' ie ' 4tre Royal “ Her Second Time on Earth.”
S™ ION “ The Earl and the Girl.**
£ AEACE The Great Thurston.
? ,VOM Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum The Theatrescope.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
MW °M SS ' S “ Quality Street.”
Majesty s “ Pirates of Penzance.”
np^oT R u R ° TAL “Besieged in Port Arthur.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Town Hall J Watkin Mills Quartet Party
\ (Saturday).
‘
Andrew Mack’s “ Arrah-na-Pogue, ” at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), is a trifle more cheerful than
some others. Of course, it can’t be made a uni-
formly cheerful affair. The most distressful coun-
try that ever had a foreign landlord is not a subject
that lends itself to a joke in four acts. But still it
lends itself in a peculiar manner to the four-act
melodrama. You cannot please either the average
patriotic Irishman or the average man in the
gallery better than by laying on the coat of trouble
inches thick in the third act so long as you take it
all off in the fourth. So Ireland abroad loves the
Irish play with a love that runs to a full house at
every revival. To him it’s an allegory ending just
as he wants it to end. Ireland has lived through the
promise of Act 1, the machinations of Act 2, the
woes of Act 3. All it wants now is the happy
ending of Act 4, when all the Michael Feeneys
are kicked out into space, and all the Arrahs and
V 1 be happy till the cows come home.
And Uoucicault gives Ireland just what it wants.
* * * *
But times for Ireland are changed a bit:
and the play has to change with them. Already
a part of the fourth act has been played, in fact:
wherefore, Ireland isn’t quite so boiling-hot as it
was, and a more subdued Feeney seems, nowa-
days, truer to nature; and the Feeney in Mack’s
performance is that sort of Feenev. Shaun, of
course, doesn’t alter much—he is still the same
Drotti of a postboy, and Arrah is a colleen that
needn t alter. Andrew Mack is, as hitherto, easy,
confident and melodious, but not particularly con-
vmcing; on the other hand, Miss Lovett’s Arrah
is her best performance by a good deal. In the
opening scenes, when no great depth is called for,
she is excellent. The other members of the co!
are from middling to poor—there is nothing that
will be remembered. The setting is, however,
something extra. Two charming stage pictures
are shown and some others that fall not far short
°u ii rir . e most notable of Mack’s songs is the
old Wearing of the Green ”to a humming ac-
companiment; Saturday night’s crowded house
got nearest to real enthusiasm at this'point.
** * *
At Sydney Palace the Great—not to say
Tremendous Thurston’s shadow is not growing
less. By all the laws of fairy tale he ought to have
no shadow. The Evil One should have bought it,
and put it in his strong box in Sheol till the owner
came, for it. But in these days of land agents
there s no knowing how Old Scratch and Thurston
manage their affairs. Anyhow, the magician has
caught the town, and has promised new mysteries
for next Saturday.
** * *
. Recently, in a spasmodic effort to improve
its mind, The Bulletin took up a book of Schop-
enhauer’s essays, and read that “ people who do
not go to theatres are those who perform their
toilet without the aid of a mirror, ” whereupon it
dropped the book and hustled off to have another
look at “The Earl and the Girl,” at Sydney
Gntenon. And it came away vowing that,
if it looks like Sheridan when he dances the
minuet in peer’s robes, it will not only
give up dancing the minuet altogether, but will
take to dressing opposite a full-length mirror and
then carry the same glass about with it, so that
it can notice any further tendency to look like
Sheridan, and retire into a quiet spot till the
calamity blows over. “The Earl and the Girl”
show no signs of going off—off the stage that is—
at present.
&& * &
Those ten boys picked from the Sydney
choristers, and presented to a delighted audience
by Mr. Arthur Mason, on Saturday night, at
Sydney Town Hall, must be real mothers’ joys
and fathers prides. That is, if the parents
appreciate their sweet soprano voices. Their
ages range from 10 to 16 ; they are public school
boys, and their careful training in sacred music,
combined with their habit of singing in church,
has given them just a film of the holy choir boy
suggestion so loved by the public that exists to be
deluded. At the same time the stained window
expression is not so marked as to cause their non-
singing school chums to give them the name of
Pie Faces. Sydney public flocked in thousands to
hear Branscombe’s Westminster Abbey concert
group, probably because it was under the delusion
that the pretty boys used to warble in the big
church where lie the Mighty Dead. When the
Sydney public recognises that the Sydney chor-
isters have as good voices as the visiting choristers,
and that with a little more training and practice
in public they will acquit themselves as well or
better, then the public will roll up to support local
productions and the electric light will wink at
Manager Southwell as he rakes in coin at the front
door.
* SK- *
“The Midnight Mail” will steam into
Sydney Royal for the last time on Friday, and,
aßer gloomily putting out the fires and blowing
off steam, it will be side-tracked among the
decayed locomotives of the past. On Saturday
Her Second Time on Earth” will be staged.
I his is a robust melodrama, familiar to Sydney,
and in it Miss Eugenie Duggan breaks things with
a bottle.
*# * *
Sydney Lyceum still totters on the verge
between Mammon and Righteousness. The old
signboard which said that liquid comforts could
be had by turning to the left has been hauled
down; in its place comes a calico poster which
says that spiritual consolation can be had within
every Sabbath. Between times the Theatrescope
effects a sort of composition between sin and the
other thing, and serves up a programme of “ani-
mated pictures,” running from a scrap of the
boat race, to the story of the wicked young
squire who has stolen away the blacksmith’s
daughter, and left her only a tarnished name
and a baby.
** * *
Mr. Claude Leplastrier is to be tendered a
complimentary concert on 11th inst., in recog-
nition of 20 years gratuitous services to charitable
and other movements. The Feld wick quartette,
Messrs. Henry Weir, Truman, Lawrence Camp-
bell and Robert Young are among the assisting
artists.
** * *
Frank M. Clark now seems to have gone
into permanent occupation of the Queen’s Hall
(Sydney), and is serving up the high kick and the
classical joke at low prices for cash.
-* * * «
The most conspicuous new-comer at Sydney
Tivoli is a talkative gentleman named Stilwell,
who would seem even more conspicuous if Sydney
hadn’t just been watching Thurston in much the
same line of business. Stilwell’s specialty, how-
ever, is flag-flapping ; instead of pushing the
atmosphere and extracting coins or beautiful
ladies out of it, he extracts flags and handker-
chiefs. Drvden i 3 now offering a lyrical version
of Marcus Superbus, and swearing to be true to
Mercia and Christianity as long as the limelight
lasts; never since the days of Rignold has Sydney
seen such a flood of limelight as Dryden calls for.
And Milo is still being beautiful in eight atti-
tudes.
** * *
“The Gondoliers,” introducing the Gilbert
and Sullivan Repertoire Co. to Melbourne, at
Her Majesty’s, last Saturday, is a gay and
sprightly performance from the opening chorus,
-the sixteen or so girls who never had a winning
chance in the game of blind man’s buff with
Marco and Guiseppe are good to see and hear;
the chorus men are almost as satisfactory, the
principals in each case have something, if not
everything, to recommend them, and the manage-
ment of the music and minor by-play strikes one as
being more artistic than in previous productions
of the opera. Where the principals fall short of
the Gilbertian intention the fault is not theirs
They can’t help it. The Duke of Plaza-Toro (H.*
H. Wallace) has the appearance and nimbleness
of a mere boy disguised as an elderly gentleman—
an escapee from a juvenile opera company. He is
amusing ; he has an effective voice, but his per-
sonality breaks up the illusion. Under the cir-
cumstances, a large, heavy, real contralto Duchess
would be more out of place than Miss Ghiloni
nevertheless the unfitness of Miss G. for these
Gilbertian old-woman parts is a painful reminder
of the period when the “ Firm ” used, to cast them
suitably. A Duchess so obviously young and
handsome to-day makes it hard for a boyish
Duke to persuade an audience that she was
a plain woman more than 20 years ago, as their
dialogue insinuates. Casilda (Miss Deloitte) has
the family failing in not looking the part, but she 1
plays and sings it very well. The other characters
are truthfully presented. Howard Vernon and
Kenningham have never been happier in their old
parts, John Ralston makes an admirable Luiz, and
he even perspires freely, as a menial drummer in
an embarrassing position should perspire. Miss
Aggie Thorn is a sweet Italianistic little Tessa,
and Miss Dolly Castles a winsome Gianetta of the
Dutch type. But the much-talked-about European
training of Miss Castles has not served to make
her sing or speak in quite the unaffected clever
style of the girl who had to make her own way to
the front. “ The Gondoliers ’’ runs for a week, and
on Saturday come the “Pirates of Penzance a
brief revival. The season will last only three
weeks.
** * *
At the Princess’s they were to take down
The Walls of Jericho” after the Wednesday
matinee this week, and give “ Niobe ” at night
for the one occasion only, wit,h Mrs. Brough as
the animated statue. A revival of “ Beauty and
lhe Barge” is advertised for to-night (Thursday)
and to-morrow, and “ Quality Street ” will happen
on Saturday. The success of “Jericho,” an
unquestionably powerful comedy, might have
been greater if some of the members of
the Smart Set had carried more weight.
The noble marquis was almost as un-
impressive as the silent _ guests who hovered
round the outskirts of his drawing-room, and
the epigrammatical Hannaford came short of
requirements, like one or two other young men
representatives of a gilded but degenerate civilisa-
tion. Moreover, “Jericho” had two or three
lines which were too strong for ordinary public
taste. They added nothing to the moral force of
the play, and they caused many persons to miss
seeing it* The girls gave one another warning
that these lines would be expected to make them
blush if Augustus were present, so—for fear that
they might not succeed in blushing up to expecta-
tions they told Gustus to keep them away from
“ Jericho.”
* * *
A Russo-Japanese war drama will shed an
aroma of gunpowder throughout Melbourne Royal
° n Saturday night. Bland Holt has never neg-
lected his duty where a war was concerned.
Sooner or later, he stages a drama on the subject,
and, m the present case, he has probably made
arrangements by which either side can be defeated
with great slaughter, to suit the cable news.
Meanwhile, some crushing defeats of the Russians
are in active rehearsal. On Saturday night, thev
will surrender Port Arthur and bite the dust at
Mellow Peril is to be presented
with the most appalling attention to detail. Two
more nights of Woman and Wine 99 will prepare
an expectant populace for “ Besieged in Port
Arthur, or Allies and Enemies.”
** * *
An excessive uproar of applause, en-
gmeered by admiring musical craftsmen, marked
the hnal appearance of Hugo Heermann at Mel-
bourne Town Hall last Saturday afternoon. Heer-
mann is a serenely beautiful violinist from the
mechanic s point of view, and in any of the verv
seriously intellectual concertos for violin and
orchestra he may be the most satisfactory soloist
under Heaven. Given a chance to play “ some-
thing resembling an air ” in the middle of an im-
pressive work (the bits of sugar are almost invari-
ably dropped into the middle piece) Heermann’s
tone is as pure as the proverbial ice, and as cold.
4 lso ’ handling of a Mozart adagio (whv are all
these t hi ngs described in non-Australian language?)
reminds one of the prayer of a sanctified We -
1 S i° rt ’ he I s one of the ff reat artists wl o
appeal only to members of their own particukr
trade, and do absolutely nothing towards the ad-
vancement of musical taste among artists in the
ct ler and more respectable trades. This objection
doesn’t apply to Watkin Mills and his Quartet
Party. The basso, who is also a line artist, gave
an attractive concert on Saturday night in the
building where Marshall Hall had lately been yell-
ing himself hoarse on account of Hugo Heermann.
The last of the Watkin Mills song cyclings is dated
Saturday the 12th.
&« * *
Kara, the juggler, who took ill whilst he
was taking well in Sydney some weeks ago, made
his convalescent appearance at the Opera House,
last Saturday. When he has recovered his lost
practice Kara will no doubt compare favorably
with Cinquevalli as a j uggler of light goods, but
he doesn’t introduce any of the feats of strength
and agility that made the veteran wonderful.
Mdlle. Guerra, a lady in expensive clothes,
described as a French and Spanish soubrette, is
another newcomer at the Opera House, and the
old-comers are still headed by Diamond and
Beatrice.
** * *
On Friday night, last week, the Players
made another effort—at Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne —to better their first treatment of “ The
French Maid.” With the assistance of a more
harmonious orchestra than they had at the Bijou,
the amateurs showed a very upward tendency.
All the performers, bar one, were the same people
as before, improved by further rehearsal. The
one new arrival, Miss Florrie Green, proved to be a
charming amateur actress in the name part. Mel-
bourne already knew of Miss Green as a dancer—
the “ star ” pupil of her mother’s school, and a
brilliant star at that—but her admirers had never
seen her as a musical comedienne. She needs a
little stage experience to give her the value of a
Letty Lind, the tall Gaiety danseuse who became
an accomplished all-round artist in light pieces.
Miss Florrie Green sings prettily enough, and has
more than enough grace and chic. The super-
abundant decorative style of the limelight dancer
only wants judicious pruning.
** * X
Edward Lauri and May Beaity bustled
through a week of “The Chinese Honeymoon”
and “ Bill Adams ” at Adelaide Royal.' Bill is a
cheery and welcome acquaintance, but he has
about as much coherent thought and purpose as a
kitten playing with a marble. Two of the most
successful items in the show were simply dropped
in from other pieces, and they fitted just as well as
if built for Bill. Anything except a hymn would
fit Bill. The brief season suffered slightly from
the fact that the Williamson Opera Co. was, so to
speak, waiting on the mat; and now “The
Cingalee ” has begun its course with great
splendor. Watkin Mills and Co. have come and
gone, and the Westminster chorister has been
exhibiting his large white collar in great strength
at the Town Hall.
The Wild Cat Column.
Dr. Culpin, M.11.R., has a proposal before the
House of Representatives for the issue of Commonwealth
Treasury notes, after the fashion of the Queensland
Treasury notes, with a gold reserve behind them. He
suggests that 4 per cent, of the notes should be with-
drawn annually, and wants the paper money used
to pay the States for properties taken over ‘by the
Commonwealth. This last part of the idea is utterly,
rotten finance, and should be rejected by every honest
man. The properties taken over from the States by the
Commonwealth were almost all built with loan money
The only way they should be paid for is by the Common-
wealth taking over as much of each State’s debt as will
represent their value, and then the Commonwealth
should set to work to pay off that debt. To pay the
States cash in any form for assets which don’t really
belong to them but to their creditors, and allow them to
spend the cash, and leave the debt standing after the
assets which represent the debt are gone, would be sheer
dishonesty.
* * * *
N.S.W. starts off the new financial year with a
month’s revenue of £756,599, or £36,020 less than for
July, 1904, and £121,366 less than for July, 1903.
The land revenue alone shrank £64,496 from last year’s
figures. Evidently the Treasury did some violent whip-
ping to get in revenue at the tail end of last year, in
order to allow Joseph the Reformer to mention that he
had a surplus. Expenditure was £922,382, or £165,783
more than the revenue—which is a pretty good start on
the way to a deficit. Loan expenditure was £152,195, or
at the rate of £1,826,340. a year; and only £18,844 of it
was on account of harbor resumptions. Waddell, in the
same month of last year, spent £138,351 of borrowed
money on works ; and Carruthers, who was so shocked at
Waddell’s extravagance and riot that he stumped the
country as a Reformer and got Waddell’s job, has spent
£138,197, or £4846 more.
Victoria’s revenue for July was £604,986, or
£12,806 ahead of that for July, 1904 ; so Bent starts off
the year with enough to encourage him to do better than
he did last year. Now that Bent is bracketed with Kid-
ston as the man who is keeping the finances straight, why
shouldn’t he publish a monthly statement of expenditure?
Kidston does it; ditto Carruthers and the Westralian
Premier, and Bent has a good lot less to hide than either
of the two last.
Westralia’s revenue for July was £196,428, the
lowest for a month for many years, and £20,231 less than
the expenditure. What is going to happen to Westralia
Heaven only knows. It still talks in a lordly way about
building new railways, and making harbors, and dropping-
a casual wharf here and there ; yet it only mentions extra
taxation vaguely, and then not above a whisper. If it
doesn’t tax, it will have to borrow, and when it lately
tried to borrow it could only get the public to lend a few
thousands, and the one thing that saved its face was that
Cohen, the financier, before he knew how badly things
were going to turn out, had guaranteed the loan for a
stiff commission. Cohen has most of the loan left on his
hands now, and Westralia is thus in the remarkable posi-
tion of having borrowed more than it can borrow.
Queensland collected £263,807 last month and
spent £178,448, leaving £84,639 to go towards the
appalling interest bill of £129,000 per month. Compared
with July, 1904, it collected £17,254 more and spent
£18,027 more. Though Kidston pulled through with a
speck of a surplus last year, he will have a hard struggle
to do the same this year. It is so very lon- since
Queensland had anything in the shape of a surplus on the
premises that the occurrence of the recent small stranger
has sept crowds of people pounding at the Treasury door
and Remanding concessions, and requiring that things be
restored to the basis of the drunk days ; and there is no
mention of taxation to do it with. That small speck of a
surplus looks as though it were going to cause its parent
a lot of trouble. 1
Most notable feature of Tasmania’s revenue
returns for July is the further slump in railway receipts.
Tasmania has the most deplorably unprofitable railway
system in Australasia ; in 1904 it yielded only I'9 per-
cent., and that was above the average. The lines dra-
thiough country which carries sheep instead of men for
want of a stiff land-tax on honestly assessed values : and
still, though the young men drift away and deficit is
chronic, it is not yet known whether fresh taxation will
be lequired. When does Tasmania think that taxation
is required ?
* * * »
The Melbourne Tramway and Omnibus Co.
iv -/I j Net
Dividends on Reserves,
£250,000 actu- Written Added including
D « ally paid by Off. to Re-Capitalised
Profits. Shareholders. serves. Reserves
£ £ £ £ £
Jnni" 131,501 38 lp-c. =96,000 35,501 262,605
1892. .111,816 29 ~ ~ 72,000 39 816 302 421
1893.. 51,270 9| „ ~24,000 27,’270 329’691
1894.. 45,460 9j ~ ~ 24,000 21,460 351’151
1895.. 52,870 94 „ ~24,000 28 870 3SoVI
1896.. 40,069 9* „ ~24,000 16 069 396 090
1897- 51,978 9£ „ ~24,000 15,000 12,978 409 068
1898.. 43,159 9£ ~ ~24,000 19,159 428 227
1899- 56,629 11| „ ~28,800 10,000 17,829 44e’056
1900- 73,270 15J „ „ 35,400 10,000 24,870 470’926
1901- 24 „ ~60,000 10,000 37,505 505’431
1902- 92,538 24 „ ~60,000 10,000 22,538 530!069
1903- 80,944 19 „ ~48,000 32,944 563 913
1904- 24 „ ~60,000 44 579 608 492
1905.. 102,555 24 „ ~60,000 42;555 651,047
The size of the various reserves and the year’s additions
to them are shown hereunder :
Addi-
n -j. v Jr> r- 1904. • 1905. tions.
Capitalised Profits .. £230,000 £230 000
Renewal Reserve .. .. 269,298 270,545 £1 ‘>47
For Return of Capital .. 64,928 77 200 12’272
Dividend Reserve.. .. 12,000 12’q00
For Depreciation of Invest-
ments .. .. 10,000 20,000 10,000
For Depreciation of Other
tt '• 30,000 45,000 15,000
Undivided Profit .. .. 26,632 27,668 1,036
T „ , . £642,858 £682,413 £39,555
Less Goodwill item in Add £3OOO
process of extinc- now writ-
tion •• •• 34,366 31,366 ten off.
Net Reserves .. ..£608,492 £651,047 £42,555
The amount shown as added to Renewal Reserve (£1247)
** v n aid 0f „ this reserve profits were charged with
£7314, but £6067 was written off, as against £2976
in the previous year. But for this extra writing-off, the
profits this year would be £1067 more than they were the
previous year, instead of, as shown in the table, £2024
less. On the other hand, £1570 is written off leaseholds
this year, against £lB6O last year. The published ac-
counts puts the capital at £480,000, on which the div
works out at 12£ per cent. ; but £230,000 of this capital
has been provided out of profits, and in the table the div.
is calculated upon the £250,000 which the shareholders
actually subscribed. The assets, apart from freeholds,
rolling stock, &c., total £586,495 (municipal and other de-
bentures account for £496,941) ; and the surplus of liquid
assets over liabilities, after paying present div., is
£490,752. The freeholds are in at book values, and the
debentures at cost; to the latter .holding- nearly £70,000
has been added during the year. The interest receipts
are set down at £18,090. On the amount held in deben-
tures, fixed deposits, and mortgage at the beginning of
the year, less bank overdraft (£6648), this interest would
mean £3 17s. per cent., so that, if there has been any
depreciation of these securities, it is apparently not
extensive.
The co.’s tramway undertaking, which is leased
from the Municipal Tramways Trust, reverts to the trust
without any payment on July 1, 1916. The co.’s expenses
in the past year included £74,250 on the Trust’s loans
(£1,650,000), and £45,000 sinking fund as against £33,000
the previous year; the total sinking fund is now about
£850,000. The position, then, is something like this.
The co. put £250,000 into the business, and, after paying
interest on the loans which the municipalities floated to
build the lines with, and also sinking fund it
made in the year a profit of 41 per cent, on its capi.
tal. Certainly, part of the profit went into a fund to
provide for renewals ; but it is very unlikely that the
renewals will cost £270,545 during the few years that are
left of the co.’s lease. It has been paying superb divi-
dends all the time ; as shown above, it has a surplus of
£490,752 of liquid assets, in addition to its own rolling
stock, freeholds, &c. ; so that, if the municipalities
accepted the latter to counterbalance any depreciation of
the lines (and the co. would probably smile at any such
proposal), the co., which put in £250,000, would walk out
with £490,000, after having pocketed an average div. of
about 17 per cent, a year. ' And yet it is a mournful co.
which pleads hard times and has a shocking reputation
for the niggardly treatment of its employees. Its record
is a warning against (he folly of leasing city tramways
* * ■* *
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co. (Sydney);
Net Bonus to Added Capital
Pro- Policy- Dividends. to Re- and Re-
Dec., fits. holders. serves, serves
1896- £12,136 £4105 22 p.c.=£4105 £3926 £66,478
1897- 10,989 4152 16 ~ „ 4152 2685 69,163
1898- 11,714 4384 16| „,, 4384 2946 72 109
June,
1899.. 4,321 2149 16£ „ „ 2149 23 72 132
1900- 11,932 4578 17| „ „ 4578 2776 74 908
1901- 12,430 4818 16 „ „ 4818 2794 77 702
1902.. 13,229 5543 18J,, ~ 5543 2143 79’845
1903.. 12,805 5869 19J „ „ 5869 1067 SO 912
1904 16,498 6067 16 ~ ~ 6067 4364 85,276
1905- 14,518 6247 16J,, „ 6247 2024 87,300
From the profits for 1904, £lOOO has been written off
for possible depreciation of securities. It looks as
though they could stand more of the same thing.
On average funds the earnings last year were
£2 17s. p.c., against £2 14s. 6d. p.c. in 1904, and
£3 Bs. 6d. p.c. ten years ago. These investments
are mostly presented in two lumps—“ city property and
mortgages, £62,836”; and “deposits and debentures,
£32,660 ’’—and it is possible that the low return is partly
due to the co. charging itself very little for office accom-
modation. If a fair amount were charged it would, of
course, improve actual investment earnings, but it would
make the expense rate higher, and it is high already.
The rate of dividend shown above is calculated to the
nearest handy fraction. On the amount actually put
int:> the concern by shareholders it is higher ; two-fifths


mm
Tramways for Mines.
CHEAP HAULAGE
often Means the Difference between
Dividends and Liquidation.
IF INTERESTED, write
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop., Ltd.
64 PITT=ST., SYDNEY. flelbourne Office: 504 Little Collins=street.
A. E.LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
PHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor Oil,
Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, Shellac, “Sun
Brand ” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro,
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
gafe 1 Correspondence Invited.
HY. MARKWALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle
Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, Christchurch.
.of the paid capital (£37,500) has been provided out of
profits in the past eight years. Other movements are
:shown hereunder: —
1895. 1903. 1904. 1905.
'Net Premiums ‘.. £35,072 £47,141 £48,517 £50,534
Interest &c. .. 2,191 2,518 2,091 2,911
Losses .. •• 11,463 11,989 9,214 12,051
I)o. p.c. of Premiums 32-7 25-4 19'0 -23'S
Expenses .. .. 14,332 24,863 24,4jj 20,901
Do. p.c. of Premiums 40'8 52'9 50'5 03’3
Do, p.c. of Income.. 38'5 50'1 47‘8 50'5
Most co.’s, however, show the premium income after de-
ducting whatever bonuses they allow to policy-holders ; de-
ducting this co.'s bonuses, the loss rate was 27‘2 per cent.,
and the expense rate 60’9 per cent, of net premiums. Of the
profits available to shareholders 75'6per cent, were paid in
divs. ; 24 "4 per cent, were put to reserves —which is a
smailer proportion than might reasonably be expected
from a.co. whose business and risks are so steadily in-
creasing. * * ' *
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Co.:
Written To Re- De-
Profit. Dividends. off. serves, licit.
‘Dec., £ £ £ £
1895 6,537 6| per cent. = 5,063 1474 12,061
1896 7,209 8f ~ ~ ~ 6,562 647 11,414
1897 10,016 10* „ „ ;, 7,500 1250 1266 10,148
1898 11,531 10 ~ ~ ~ 7,500 1250 2781 7,367
1899 11 614 10 ~ ~ ~ 8,488 1250 1926 5,441
1900 16,498 10 „ „ „ 11,250 1000 4248 1,193
1901 10,058 10 „ „ „ 11,250 2,385
1902 13,140 10 ~ ~ ~ 11,250 1890 495
Nominal
Rgsgtvgs.
1903 13,499 10 „ „ „ 11,250 2249 1.754
1904 13,889 10 ~ „ ~ 11,250 2639 4,393
WOo 6 ’ 6,502 10 „ „ „ 5,625 - 877 5,270
The co. shows reserves of £20,270, but the assets include
“ Parliamentary rights, £15,000,” which being a paper item
only, is disregarded in the foregoing. The reserves are,
moreover, of the nature of provision for actual deprecia-
tion in some cases and probable depreciation in others.
All assets are in at cost—even the Waterloo lease, which
is obviously a wasting security. Such reserves as remain
sifter scoring out the paper item are therefore to some
extent nominal—even though the Parliamentary rights
have a market value at present and so long as they are
the basis on which the co. can work profitably. The co.’s
profits are not growing markedly. Its position is some-
what peculiar. If it pays more than 10 per cent., it has
to share with the city council; and it probably prefers, in
view of electrical competition, to give its customers the
benefit of anything it can make over an easy-10 per cent.
On the other hand, there seems no reason why, if it could
make larger profits, it shouldn’t use some of them to write
down its properties. Certainly the city has the right to
take over the undertaking at certain periods; but the. city
council isn’t likely to follow the balance-sheet valuations,
and it is less likely to do that the longer the co. lasts
without writing off anything. Co. has a profitable busi-
ness ; but under the circumstances the chances of larger
profits being available for distribution look pretty small.
The capital expenditure on the works is still mounting
up ; at the end of 1902 (the first year after the engineering
business was floated off) the surplus of liquid assets over
liabilities amounted to £6037 ; it is now only £1996. In
other words, plant, &c., has absorbed the current undi-
vided profit and £4041 besides, which is all the more
reason why writing-down should have attention, since
more and more pf the co.’s resources are going into
things that decay.
* * * *
The Sydney Hydraulic and General Engi-
neering Co.
♦ . Carried to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1902 .. £4400 15 percent. =£2200 £2200 £2200
New Share Premiums 579 2779
1903 .. 2264 10 per cent. = 1500 764 3543
1904 .. 2129. 10 „ „ 1500 629 4172
1905 .. 2296 10 ~ „ 1500 798 4968
The reserves are probably more or less nominal, being in
part a provision for wear and tear. As, however, the
wasting assets (freeholds, buildings, plant, &c.) cost only
£15,608, and much of them is new, a substantial part of
the reserves appears to be real.
* * » *
Port Jackson Co-operative Steamship ,Co.,
whose beat is between Sydney and Manly
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
June, 1903., 6 p.c. =£7so £5625 . £lOB7
Dec., 1903..£3,996 8 „ ~1000 2SOO £196 1283
June, 1904.. 7,973 8„ „ 1000 5268 1705 2988
Dec., 1904.. 6,407 8 „ ~1000 1068 4339 7327
June, 1905.. 11,038 10 ~ „ 1250 8664 1124 8451
The figures show a very striking increase, allowing a
larger dividend and something extensive in the way of
writing off. Further details may throw some light on
matters :
1899. 1904. 1905.
Net Traffic Receipts .. .. £8,878 £13,710 £17,534
Management, Insurance, &c.. 3,233 5,53 S 6,276
Liabilities to Public .. ~ 32,691 41,766 38,495
Steamers .. .. .. 39,227 41,085 36,250
Properties .. .. .. 12,040 11,261 9,932
Cash and Deposits .. .. 5,693 16,394 15,455
Other Assets 529 2,188 11,779
The net traffic receipts have thus very nearly doubled in
six years. Liabilities to the public include £28,000 of
debentures due in 1910, and £8745 interminable 5 per
cents, issued to the old Manly Co. The steamer account
is being steadily written down ; including the cost of
special repairs made to one of the vessels, and paid for out
of revenue, £14,465 has come off during the past two
years ; and landed properties have also been written down.
As no large additions have been made to the floating and
other property, the writings-down have greatly strength-
ened the financial position. The co. is, however, now
launching a new steamer, the payments on account of
which (£10,047) are included above in “other assets.”
Co. deserves an extra stroke of good luck for having
had this steamer built in Australia. What the real
profits of the co. are it is impossible to tell;
but if the writings-off in the past half-year are no more
and no less than enough to cover the half-year’s deprecia-
tion, then the return on capital (£25,000) and reserves
was at the rate of £l4 13s. 9d. per cent, per annum. And
that is large enough to suggest that the assets are not
over-valued, and that the reserves are at least as big as
they are set down. On the other hand, note that the
Jan.-June half-year is usually the most profitable.
* * * *
The South Brisbane Gas and Light Co.
Div. and Written To Re. Re-
Profits. Div. Tax. off. serves, serves.
June, 1902..£2566 6 p.c. =£1521 £lOO £945 £8,597
£2500 Reserves added to Capital .. 6,097
Dec., 1902.. 3200 6 p.c.= 1597 359 1244 7,341
£1713 premium on new shares used as profit
to reduce Debenture Debt.
June, 1903.. 2852 6 p.c. = 1654 203 995 8,336
Dec., 1903.. 3329 6 „ ~ 1654 600 1075 9,411
June, 1904.. 3110 6 ~ „ 1654 100 1356 10,767
Dec., 1904.. 3342 7 „ ~ 1929 100 1313 12,080
June, 1905.. 3011 7 „ „ 1929 3 1079 13,159
This half-year the form of the published accounts is some-
what altered, and, as usual, not in the direction of giving
shareholders more information about their property.
Previouslv, nothing was shown as charged in profit and
loss account for depreciation; now “ manufacture, de-
preciation, &c.,” are bunched. When the amount charged
for wear and tear is not disclosed, directors are, of course,
able to make the net profits look big or little as they please.
The “ plant, land and building” item in the balance-sheet
doesn’t help at all, because additions are constantly being
made, or, again, plant may be sold. The properties appear,
for book-keeping purposes, to have been kept fairly well
within their real value ; therefore, though the co. has
£15,000 of borrowed money (debentures, 4 per cent.,
repayable 1915), the whole assets show for the past year a
profit of £7 12s. 6d. per cent. ; or on shareholders’ funds
alone, a net £9 15s. per cent. The co. owes practically
nothing outside the debentures, but all its resources are
in the business.
Brisbane Gas Co. (Q.)
Added
Dividends and to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Tone 1902 Id p.c. =£7345 £20,073
Dec 1902 .‘I £9,688 11* „ „ 8446 £1242 21,915
June 1903 9 054 11 „ „ 8085 969 22,884
Dec 1903 .. 11 762 11* „ 8452 3310 26,194
June’ 1904 11,042 11* ~ ~ 8452 2590 28,784
Dec 1904 :: IMS! 11* „ „ 8452 3182 31,966
June, 1905 .. 10,309 11* „ „ 8452 1857 33,823
In addition to the reserves shown above, there is an
j tem “ Land : suspense account for Dividend Reserve
Fund £10,000,” apparently profit made by selling some
property to the Brisbane City Council, which still owes
£l4 000 on the transaction. The co. is in an easy financial
position ; after paying all debts to the public and the div.,
it has £33 872 of liquid assets, mostly deposits and cash
balances. ’Something is apparently written off profits
towards covering wear and tear, but the amount is not
disclosed ; it is therefore impossible to say whether the
stated profits fairly represent the position, or whether
the reserves are real reserves. But as the whole assets
showed a return last half-year of £lO 11s. 6d. p.c. p.a., it
seems probable that they are at least not ridiculously
over-valued and that the reserves are something con-
siderably better than ink-marks on paper. The capital is
£140,000.
* * * *
City of Newcastle Gas Co. (N.S.W.)
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Re-
serves. serves.
June, 1901 ..£3137 15 p.c. = £lBB5 £1252 £44,153
Dec., 1901 .. 2494 15 „ „ 1885 609 44,762
June, 1902 .. 2660 15 „ „ 1885 775 . 45,537
Dec 1902 .. 3499 15 ~ „ 2180 1319 46,856
June, 1903 .. 2778 15 „ „ 2574 204 47,060
Dec., 1903 .. 3280 15 „ „ 2969 311 47,371
June, 1904 .. 3309 15 „ „ 3264 45 4/,416
Dec., 1904 .. 3630 15 ~ ~ 3312 018 47,734
Share Premiums and Suspense items (?) 3309 51,043
June, 1905 .. 3835 15 p.c. = 3375 460 51,503
The position is none too certain. There was formerly a
“ suspense ” item of £2890, which included premiums on
new shares ; that has now disappeared, and the formal
reserve fund has sprung' £3309 without explanation.
Apparently the two movements are connected. Of the
reserves £28,675 is described as “ Renewal plant, mams,
&c.” This is a very doubtful reserve. It is pro-
bably a provision against depreciation which has
already taken place. In that case the reserves are tq
that extent nominal: also in that case the true profits
are for the half-year £5OO less than shown, that being the;
amount added to this depreciation fund. On the other
hand, part of the unexplained addition to reserve fund
may have come out of undisclosed profits. As remarked
before, the accounts were apparently made up during a
heavy fog, and none of these things are too clear. The
co.’s position is, nevertheless, and for certain, much
stronger than that of most gas co.’s. It has no deben-
tures or deposits, and its debts to the public total only
£6667 ; while in addition to plant, works, &c., it has
£l6 575 of Government stock and £12,828 of book debts.
Also it has a remarkably profitable business. Its whole
asset’s (even though some of them should be written down
out of renewal reserve) are earning, net, £7 ss. per cent,
per annum, while on its own funds (capital £45,000 and
reserves as shown in the table above) the return is
£8 ss. 6d. per cent.
* * * *
The Brighton Gas Co. (Vic.)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
June, 1901 .. £1729 5 p.c. =£lll7 £378 £234 £2528
Dec., 1901.. 1686 5„ „ 1117 391 178 2706
June, 1902.. 1462 5„ „ 1117 465 2586
Dec., 1902.. 1524 5,, „ 1117 324 83 2669
June, 1903.. 1525 5„ „ 1117 407 1 2670
Dec., 1903.. 1769 5„ „ 1117 242 410 3080
June, 1904.. 1831 6„ „ 1340 343 148 3228
Dec., 1904.. 2097 6„ „ 1340 352 405 3633
June, 1905.. 2172 6,, „ 1340 275 557 4190
There is practically always some suspicion about gas co.s’
reserves; the funds are in plant, buildings, mains, &c.,
and even when repairs and renewals are well kept up, the
value of the patched concern isn’t the same as the value
of the original, brand-new concern. The Brighton Co.,
at any rate, has the merit of showing what it does write
off ; also it has practically no public creditors. On the
other hand, very nearly all it has is in the business. The
undertaking is yielding a solid £7 17s. per cent, net on
shareholders’ funds ; and on the whole assets £7 10s. per
cent. ; and when money can earn that much in the busi-
ness,'there isn’t much temptation to put it into stocks or
deposits that yield 3* per cent. Yet the latter are a handy
thing to have on hand when a stroke of bad luck comes
along, and something extraordinary in the way of re-
newals has to be done ; for the most philanthropic of con-
tractors or coal-suppliers won’t take payment in a mile or
so of partially worn-out pipes and a load of meters.
* * * *'
Goulbern Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901 .. £BO2 15 per cent. = £750 £52 £5979
June, 1902 .. 762 15 „ „ 750 12 5991
Dec., 1902.. 942 15 ~ „ 750 192 6183
June, *903 .. 938 15 ~ ~ 750 188 6371
Dec., 1903.. 953 15 „ „ 750 203 6574
June, 1904 .. 1160 15 „ „ 750 410 6984
Dec., 1904 .. 1180 15 ~ „ 750 430 7414
June, 1905 .. 1111 15 ~ ~ 750 361 7775
The reserves are to an unknown extent nominal, being
really writings-off for depreciation. Financial position
is, however, easy. Apart from trade accounts (£253), the
co. owes nothing, while its liquid assets, after paying the
dividend, total £ss6B—more than half the capital. After
writing off 5 per cent, per annum from the entire fixed
investments of the co., the assets show £8 16s. per cent,
profit, which is almost large enough to make Goulburn
ask whether it isn’t paying too much for its gas.
* * * *
Bendigo Gas Co. (Victoria)
Written To Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserve, serves.
June,’o3.. _ £18,686
Dec. ,’03.. £2925 12 p.c. =£2520 £450 18,641
June,’o4.. 2461 12 „ „ 2520 164 18,418
Dec., ’04.. 3142 12 „ „ 2520 £622 19,040
June,’os.. 2537 12 „ „ 2520 17 19,057
The reserves may not all be real reserves, part of them
being “invested in wear and tear account,” which proba-
bly means that the amount should be written off for
depreciation. Still the whole assets, as they stand,
returned in the past year just upon 9 p.c., so there doesn’t
appear to be any excessive valuation. The co. has no
debts outside trade accounts (£177), while its cash
balances, after paying the half-year’s div., amount to
£6lll.
* » * *
The North Shore Gas Co..(Sydney)
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Re-
serves. serves.
June, 1901 . .£3733 7 p.c. =£3719 £l4 £5,465
Dec., 1901 .. 3776 7 „ „ 3719 57 5,522
June, 1902 .. 3742 7 ~ „ 3790 5,474
Dec., 1902 .. 6453 7 „ „ 3937 2516 7,990
June, 1903 .. 4724 7 „ ~ 4153 571 8,581
Dec., 1903 .. 6495 8 ~ „ 4997 1498 10.059
June, 1904 .. 5366 7 ~ ~ 4408 958 11,017
Dec., 1904 .. 6782 7 „ „ 4768 2014 13,031
June, 1905 .. 5484 7 ~ ~ 4812 672 13,703
The capital is now £137,497 ; on that and reserves the
profit shows a return of £7 ss. Bd. per cent. This is after
some allowance has been made for wear and tear of plant;
but the amount is not disclosed. In spite of the steady
increase of paid capital, the co.’s debts to the public in-
crease.; including trade debts, they now amount to
£16,985, against which it has debts due £8449. The
whole of its capital and reserves are in the business. Still,
the extensions during the past few years appear to have
been profitable. In 1901 the whole assets earned about
£6 3s. ; in the past 12 months, £7 55.. Of course, a lot
depends upon whether the same proportion was charged
for depreciation in the two periods. Without that infor-
mation, gas co.s’ accounts must leave much in doubt.
Albury Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.)
Written To Be- Be-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serve, serves
June, 1902 .. £371 10 p.c. = £375
Dee., 1902.. 374 10 „ „ 375 £lOO 'B5
June, 1903.. 372 10 „ „ 375 40
Dee., 1903.. 459 10 „ „ 375 £B4 326
June, 1904.. 471 10 „ „ 375 96 922
Dec., 1904.. 524 10 „ „ 375 149 1,071
June, 1905.. 41S 10 „ „ 375 43 1,114
Nothing, so far as the accounts show, is written off for
depreciation ; and the reserves, having to cover all that,
are therefore merely nominal. If the plant, mains, <»c.,
have depreciated by more than £lll4, then the co. is
paying part of its 10 p.c. div. out of capital, further, on
a paid capital of £7500, which may or may not be intact,
it carries a mortgage of £5OOO. Altogether its position
as disclosed, is not satisfactory, and the 10 per cent. div.
is not justified. t
Tam worth Gas and Coke Co. (N.S.W.):
Writ- Added
Profits. Dividends. ten to Be- Be-
off. serves, serves.
June, 1902 .. £692 10 p.c. =£soo £192 £1766
Dec., 1902.. 699 10 „ „ 500 199 1965
June, 1903.. 623 10 „ „ 500 £lOO 23 1988
Dec., 1903.. 571 10 „ „ 546 25 2013
June, 1904 .. 642 10 „ „ 546 100 2009
Dec., 1904.. 631 10 „ „ 546 85 2094
June, 1905.. 635 10 „ „ 546 89 2183
There is no trace of any charge for wear and tear of plant;
and plant must have depreciated to some extent, which
simply means that future profits will have to be charged
with some of the burden which present profits! ought to
carry. Otherwise, things look prosperous. But the lam-
worth municipality owns an electric-lighting plant, ana.
there is always the risk of competition for public supply
from that quarter.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
Dec., 1898.. £3589 10 p.c. = £3689 £2741 £17,565
June, 1899.. 2300 7* „ „ 2778 1182 15,910
Dec., 1899.. 2801 71 „ „ 27/8 /335 8,598
Dine 1900 3031 74 ~ ~ 2780 443 8,406
Dec.,’l9oo.'.' 3003 74 „ „ 2781 189 £33 8,439
June, 1901.. 2972 74 „ „ 2784 188 8,627
Dec., 1901.. 5010 8 „ „ 2972 2038 10,665
June, 1902.. 4873 8 „„ 2972 1901 12,566
Dec 1902 5913 8 „ „ 2972 2941 15,507
June, 1903.. 6048 10 „„ 3717 2331 17,838
Dec 1903 6484 10 ~ „ 3720 2764 20,602
June 1904 5748 10 3721 ; 2027 22,629
Dec 1904:: 5543 10 ~,, 3722 250 1.571 24,200
June’, 1905.. 5606 10 ~ ~ 3723 800 1083 26,283
The capital is £74,469 ; on that and reserves the profits
show £ll 7s. 2d. p.c. p.a. But from these profits £SOO is
written off building account. The assets consist of free-
hold premises, £19,939, advances £82,949) cash balances
£8043 (before paying div.), and a small furniture item.
The average amount of advances was £82,620 ; interest
earnings for the half-year, after providing for bad debts,
£9734 • average rate of interest appears therefoie to be
about 23 p.c. p.a. ; which is nearly big enough to suggest
that the co. takes considerable risks. And if the highly
reputable Mont de Pi6t6 can get 23 p.c., what must the
horde of less reputable people, whose expenses are pro-
portionately much greater, charge for the accommodation
they offer?* * *
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney), pro-
perty salesmen, valuators, &c. : Deficit
In Be- (goodwill
Profits. Dividends. duction not
of De- reckoned
ficit. an asset).
June 1900 £2448 5 p.c. = £l5OO £948 £50,538
Dec 1900 2538 5 1500 1038 49,500
June 1901 2517 5 1500 1017 48,483
Dec ,1901 . : 3313 5” ” 1500 1813 46,670
June, 1902 .. 3263 5„ „ 1500 1763 44,907
Dec 1902 . 2993 5 ~ ~ 1000 1493 43,414
June, 1903 .. 1746 5 „ „ 1500 246 43,168
Dec 1903 .. 2055 5 „ ~ 1500 555 42,613
June, 1904 .. 1611 5 „ „ 1500 111 42,502
Dec 1904 .. 1622 5 ~ ~ 1500 122 42,380
June, 1905 .. 1661 5 „ „ 1500 161 42,219
The goodwill item originally stood at £57,500 ; this has
now been formally reduced to £43,500, and instead of
being - represented by a signboard, the £14,000 written off
is represented by Treasury bills and bank balances. The
surplus of liquid assets over liabilities is now £lB,O-7
(equal to 6s. 2d. per share), against £10,813 five years ago.
Business in B. and W.’s line is still extremely slack—
which by the way, shows what a fool of a time it was for
the N.S.W. Government to put up the Centennial Park
lands to auction.
* * * *
The Distilleries Co., Ltd.. theD.C.L. people,
who make more whisky than anybody else in the world .
Written Total
Profits. Dividends. Off Pro- Re-
Mav P ert y- serves.
1899 £134,650 10 p.c. =£85,810 £30,000 £234,326
1900 134 775 10 „ „ 85,587 30,000 253,514
1901 124 253 10 „ 84.235 20,000 273,532
1902 ' 126 948 10 ~ ~ 86,697 20,000 293,783
1903" 1411291 10 ” „ 30,000 295,074
1904.. 151,296
f 5,, pref. „ 3,089\
\lO „ ord. „ 110,000/
35,000 298,281
1905.. 165,466
f 5 ~ pref. ~ 9,464)
\lO „ ord. „ 122,010/
35,000 297,273
This vast concern continues to spread ; through the issue
of new stock (capital is now £1,220,100) it has obtained
control of the United Distilleries, Ltd., Belfast, in respect
of which £120,000 goes into the balance-sheet as an asset.
The co. has £974,912 stock on hand and maturing ; so the
whisky-drinker who calls for D.C.L. isn’t likely to call in
vain yet awhile. * * *
Mt. Boppy (N.S.W.), whose south-western
leases are still under an indefinite option to the Anglo-
Australian Exploration Co., hasn’t so far opened up there
any deposit that’s likely to lead to business, though the
country has been systematically tested by more than
1000ft.'of east and west crosscutting at a depth of 100 ft.
At south end of mine’s workings reef is known to dip,
but as it has been picked up in a shallow crosscut 1000 ft.
from the main shaft, and shows a south-easterly trend,
assumption is that co.’s western leases, described from
time to time as auriferous, aren’t quite so auriferous as
was thought. Experts Dunstan, Hocking and M'Donald
may thus prove right in stating that Boppy South carries
the continuation of Boppy lode. On account of the dis-
appointing result in Boppy’s crosscuts, the Bakeweil
diamond drill, whose mission is to pick up the lode about
3000 ft. still further south from last discovered point,
seems to have a hard, lonely road ahead. And there is
enough pluck in that venture to deserve something
better. #
North Cobar (N.S.W.), lately acquired by
English newspaper man Newnes and the electric ore-
finders, doesn’t seem to have much chance of getting on
to the profitable end of the Cobar Mine’s shoots. Extreme
point of ore body opened up in Cobar Mine is 750 ft. from
North Cobar’s boundary, and at this it is 600 ft. deep and
of low grade (about 2 per cent.). On present calculation
North Cobar will have to sink 2000 ft. to reach it if it lives,
which is some explanation why “ the S3 r ndicate has
never madly rushed after North Cobar, and why North
Cobar old shareholders never got anything for their out-
lay in upper levels.
* * * *
Chesney, Cobar, which could not be handled at
a profit by the Malcolm M‘Eacliarn crowd, through want
of a basic ore, now has in sight 200,000 tons of 31 per
cent, copper ore, carrying 26 grains of gold to the ton.
Stuff is going regularly into furnaces of Cobar copper
mine ; and as Chesney stuff smelts something like 18s.
per ton more than the Cobar sulphides, the syndicate’s
deal pans out profitably.
* -K * *
It will be two months at least before things are
at all straight at the Sulphide Corporation. Two levels
are apparently unaffected by the recent crush, but lack
of means to get ore to the mill from there will block pro-
duction for a time. As expected, Block 10 is more
affected by the crush than it cared to own, but the South
seems solid.
* * * *
The Broken Hill mines feel the strain for weeks
before the crash comes—they “talk,” as the miners
call it. The Sulphide mine had been “ talking ” for more
than a week ; and on Monday there was movement
enough to upset the working of the shaft. Barrier
Miner published a report on Tuesday that things were
unsettled ; but the management pooh-poohed the rumors,
and outsiders in the cities heard jipthuig■ of them. But
people who had been bitten before proaiptly g shaft
the wet. Best feature of the case was that Kintore shaft
was two years ago recognised as doomed, so ° p ’
and a new main shaft, now almost begun. For
a long while past the Sabbath has been devoted to prop
ping Kintore shaft to last another week*
* * *
Six months ago it was pointed out that the
extra-low costs (14s. 3id.) reported by Broken Hill North
would turn out deceptive. Still there they stood, and
helped to make up the boomlet. Now, for following_hall -
year, total costs on mine run to 18s. Id., or over 25 p. .
more. Yarn is that development cost so much more. Cei -
tainly ; but so did mining—lls. sd. against just, under 1--
Development cost 2s. sd. per ton, though it ha . d
announced that, while the plant was idle, the mine had
been opened up j'ust ready to block out the ore. North s
a good second-olass mine, but absurdly punea.
B.H. Prop, is thinking hard over a proposal to
put up a pig-iron furnace at Port Pirie (S. Aus.), drawing
its ore from the Iron Knob, on the other side of Spencer s
Gulf, and its coke from Bellambi (N.S. W.). The manage-
ment naturally isn’t very enthusiastic about it, rattle
absence of tariff or bonus help, but is almost persuaded
to risk the experiment, being assured anyway of one large
customer—itself.
* * * *
Junction, Wyalong (N.S.W.), long under a
cloud, is showing rich mineral stone in the deep levels.
Co. has also 500 tons average quality ore ready for treat-
ment. The shaft is down 800 ft., and expense of d velop-
ing the reef in deep country has to be borne by some
half-dozen shareholders. The property is on the main
line of reef (The Mallee Bull), and adjoins the True Blue.
* * * *
Burnt Creek, Dunolly, continues its record as
the cheapest-worked alluvial mine in Vic. Costs are
covered by under lOdwt. wash. Of late the grade has
gone back’to Bdwt., and calls have to.be made, as co is
driving on the Duke lead from a new shaft, and will have
to unwater it by bores from the mam under-level.
Development here will be the salvation of the co., for the
pumps at No. 1 shaft have been forced so bard that the
mine was always being risked owing to the chance of a
bad breakdown. With new plant, 3,500,000ga15. will be
lifted every 24 hours. Then this capitally managed httte
show will have a hope of getting near divs., if not actually
on to them. . »
* * * *
Prospectors and others are requested to forward
samples of Asbestos and full particulars to Herbert
Soanes, the only Asbestos Speciahst in Auetralasia.
Reports made and sales negotiated. Address. Herbert
Soanes, Asbestos Specialist, Box 202, P. 0., 1 erth, W.A.
The Review (London), August 19, WO4, writes:
“ The Colonial Mutual Life Office does
ness, some three-quarters of a million sterling in
Dolicies and nearly £330,000 in premium income. The
Funds are now running close up to thl '® e d)! ll^°P S i^ e Qj.eft
and as the oldest Colonial office established in Great
Britain, it will always be entitled to respect and
sideration.* .
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus Micr-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged(rea
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.
The Waihi Mine management (M.L.), is making
extensive additions to the milling plant in order to be
in a position to deal more effectively with the sulphide
ores which will for the future be the product from then
lower levels. Concentration will be a special feature in
the treatment, and the company accordingly, before
deciding upon the type of concentrator to be adopted,
made exhaustive tests of thedifferentmachinespro-
curable in the market and finally decidedm-df r P for 25
Wilfley Concentrator, and have placed an older tor Z 5
tables with the Austral Otis Engineering Company, Smith
Melbourne, sole manufacturers This
firm has just completed and shipped the machines to the
mine.* . #
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.* t *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boileis as
the standard for ‘the British Navy.*
* * * *
Charters Towers. — Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange) for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decav, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
“ Nothing Succeeds Like Success. The
Hornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Cov. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. B. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more—alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Lwht Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 2500h.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs W. T. Murrav and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
are also putting down “Hornsby” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. B. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne.
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
Last year Australia imported £106,758 worth of
motor-cars ; this year the figures will probably be trebled.
And every penny of all those thousands should have been
spent in the country. The Victorian Government does
well by making all its own motor-buses—all but the
machinery, and it ought to make that likewise.
(Continued on page SO).


1
The Hark of Quality.
The Name of David Jones and Company
is like the sterling mark on silver—it is the
STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE. So that
when you invest in an “ Orient to Measure
Suit” at 63/- you are certain of getting a
suit that will please.
Spring Suitings now ready. Write for
patterns and measurement forms.
Sent, carriage paid, to any P.O, in the
Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
SYDNEY.
m
HARRINGTON’S
IS THE
LARGEST AND CHEAPEST DEPOT
CAMERAS
and OF EVERY KIND
ALSO PHOTO SUPPLIES
From the World’s Best Makers.
SPECIAL OFFER FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
SWP/rom any J-plate negative we will make
first-class Enlargements 8J x 6J, mounted and
ready for framing
for the sum of . .
It-
ONE SHILLING.
Send In your Name and Address for
any early copy of our NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
386 George St.
(NEAR
C.P.0.),
Sydney, # 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Society
CANADIAN
CLUB
WHISKY.
Not long since a N S.W. railway engine-
i Ver r a veteran Wlt}l a pood record and afirst-
dass character faded to pass the periodical eve-
sight test, and was degraded in his declining
years to be a cleaner. That was fair enough • a
riwer with failing eyesight is too serious a danger
to be tolerated. But when a Chief Justice grows
deaf he is just as useless and just as dangerous as
the near-sighted driver. And if the law were no
respecter of persons it would reduce him to dust-
lng out what used to be his court, with his old
judicial wig fpr a duster. If it isn’t right to do
that sort of thing to the old Chief Justice, then the
old engine-driver isn't getting a fair deal.
* * *
The South Melbourne police court lately
heard particulars regarding a theft on a British
ship, lhe accused was a South Sea Islander, the
complainant a cabin-boy (nationality not specified
in the report) and the mate (who gave corrobora-
tive evidence) an organ-grinder, named Quisti
I he arresting constable was an Englishman mimed
A FIRST IM-
PRESSION.
“ Who do you think
I am?"
“Well, I haven't
the slightest idea;
hut you certainly
look like a fool!”
The voice of China begins to be heard on
the Rand. A Chinese interpreter in that region
has written to London Daily Chronicle to say
that his countrymen were beguiled to Africa by
false prefences, and that they are insufficiently
fed, cruelly flogged, and paid less than the Kaffirs.
Y el J’ an y san e individual expect anything
else ? Ihe war was a war for cheap labor, and
cheap labor has come. The mine-owners, who
deliberately brought about the death of thousands
ot men, women and children to increase their
blood-stained dividends, are not likely to consider
flogging and starvation as anything out of the
way—they are small things compared with mur-
der. Besides, cheap labor is always supposed to
be flogged—if it is cheap enough.
A Victorian town has been having some
amusement in a small way. There was a
prospective vacancy for a beadle or some-
thing, and an energetic councillor is said to
have got up a requisition to himself and gone
round getting ratepayers to sign it—the purport
of the document being that the ratepayers had an
enthusiastic desire to see him decorating the post.
Then he is alleged to have advertised it at his
own expense, and later, to have advertised that
the warm-hearted ratepayers were going to pre-
sent him with the document, but as it had never
been out of his possession the presumption is that
he presented it to himself, and urged himself
strongly to overcome his natural diffidence, and
come forward, and accept a post which he was so
well fitted to adorn. At last advices the gentle-
man was said to be still struggling with his
natural diffidence.
Mr. M‘Anulty is still an issue in Victoria.
A Public Service Board met last week to consider
a charge, laid against Paul Anthony M‘Anulty by
M. Byrne, secretary of the Crown Law Depart-
ment, of not complying with an order to give over
to his successor the documents relating to his job
as taxing officer of the Supreme Court. Briefly
M'Anulty’s suggestion is that he doesn’t come
under the jurisdiction of the Public Service Board
but of the Supreme Court. A person bearing an
exact resemblance to P. A. M‘Anulty attended,
but explained that he was not there as
1. A. M'A unity, but as the taxing-master of the
Supreme Court. (Reminded that the charge was
against P. A. M‘Anulty, the adumbration, or
whatever it was, affirmed “P. A. M‘Anulty is not
here,’ and stated that, as taxing-master of the
Supreme Court, it intended to retire from the
room ; and did so.
Ihe proposal to shift a number of dead
men’s bones from the northern end of Old Mel-
bourne (West) Cemetery, in order to enlarge the
inconveniently situated Victoria Market, has
recalled attention to the fact that Melbourne’s
earliest corpses have received no sentimental con-
sideration from posterity. Graves and tombstones
at the V est Melbourne burv big-ground have, in
most cases, been utterly neglected for years. The
state of the enclosure is an uglv satire on the
occasional professions of respect for Old Pioneers
which are uttered at gatherings of modern feeders.
As a matter of fact, the inmates of the first
local cemetery went early to bed, as a rule. They
were young pioneers when they died for want
ot careful housing, or proper medical attention, or
because the early Melbourne liquor was of a
wicked character. But they pioneered. They
were adventurous spirits—among the fittest,
maybe, although they didn’t happen to survive.
Judging from some existing specimens, and sons
ot specimens, of Melbourne s ancient pioneerage,
one would say that the unfittest survived, whilst
the good fellows took up the only allotments of
local land that didn’t enormously increase in value.
The decision of Camperdown to munici-
pally join the city of Sydney gives the Greater
Sydney movement some kind of a start. The
Sydney municipality covers 2180 acres, and the
new arrangement will add 435 acres to this. Cam-
perdown is a ridiculous little borough, yet
it is large compared to some around Syd-
ney. For instance, Darlington keeps up all
the pomp of local self-government for an
area of 38 acres, and Erskineville for 166
acres. Camperdown muddled along on its
own for 43 years before bankruptcy drove it to
incorporation. The dirtiest part of the muni-
cipality voted solidly against union, being bitterly
afraid that it would be washed, but the cleaner
regions gave an overwhelming vote the other way,
and left the offensive locality in a bad minority. '
THE RULING PASSION.
JOHNNY (as the car humps him): “ B' Jove, I
believe she smiled."
Melb. : There has just been a railway
robbery of intense interest to the profession,
borne £370 in money, and in a box, was taken out
i\/r u 6 £ uar d s vall between Williamstown and
Melbourne at night, another box being substi-
tuted. My hypothesis as a humble Poe :At a
lonely station the thief, with the imitation box
under his arm, crawled on at the end farthest
from the ticket-taker, and crawled away again
with the money-box at that end.
* * * *
London County Council has determined
to put down what it calls the “ bogus
agency system ” ; and a man who ad-
vertises a situation and charges ap-
plicants an entrance fee is regarded
as a bogus agent. Under these cir-
cumstances N.S.W. Public Service
Board is lucky that it doesn’t live in
London. For it regularly advertises
vacant posts, or posts that may be
vacant some day, and as regularly
notifies that applicants must pay ss.
or 10s., or more, to have their fitness
tested. _ A London agent who really
had a girl’s billet for disposal set up a
half-crown entrance fee, and raked in
800 half-crowns. It was admitted that
one girl received the appointment, but
the London County Council, never-
theless, treated him as a swindler.
A barrister or doctor candidate cer-
tamly pays a fee for examination ; but
as many as pass receive qualifications.
It is different when the number of billets
is fixed, and any number of fee-paying can-
didates are invited to contest.
* * » T
The German Kaiser’s proposal that the
entrance to the Baltic Sea should be closed against
warships by treaty, just as the Black Sea is closed,
has a streak of brilliance about it. The entrance
which it is proposed to close is, of course, the
natural one by the Skagerßaek and the Cattegat.
But Germany has its own well-fortified private
entrance to the Baltic by the Kiel Canal—an
entrance which probably half the navies of
Europe would be insufficient to force. Therefore
the German fleet could come out of the Baltic
when it pleased, and if it lost the fight, or if it
found the enemy too strong, it could scurry back
again like a cat going up a tree ; and its enemy
would be in the position of the dog that can only
bark down by the tree-root. It would be eternal
Sunday on the Baltic, with the pub closed all the
time, but Germany vvould be perpetually drinking
at the side door, while the other nations waited on
the front step and parched. Of course the closure
may come about some day, when Germany has
borrowed the remainder of Denmark ; but, just at
present, the bounding Kaiser seems to have been
touching the paint before it was dry—as usual.
* * * *
Music hath charms. The last appeal of a
beer-stained wreck of humanity at a Melbourne
suburban court: “Don’t lock me up, mister.
There won’t be nobody to play the pianner on
Saterdee night at the pub if I ain’t there.”
A while ago the Australian post office got
tired of tracking up at considerable expense the
lost letter that was never lost, but was left hang-
ing up at home in the other coat, and it caused no
end of a row by asking for 2Ad. along with each
complaint. Everybody who had ever lost a letter
thereupon threw offensive language at the depart-
ment for finingpeople2id. for mislaying their corres-
pondence. Pumpkin Smith made a minute just
before he left office that the 2*d. hadn’t had the
desired effect of reducing the number of com-
pkunts ; wherefore he suggested that it should he
aboashed as leading to more worry and wicked
language than any 2Jd. is worth. The matter
really takes some hard thinking over. There are
not any satisfactory Australian figures on the
subject, but Maoriland has some which answer
just as well. Last year, in that State, 116,000,000
separate letters, packets, newspapers, etc., were
handled ; and only 3586 complaints of non-delivery
were made one for every 30,000 articles. In
1883 cases the article were traced ; no less than
887 had been delivered ; and in most of the other
cases they hadn’t been posted at all, or had been
posted without being addressed. What happened
to those that couidn t be traced nobody knows—•
except, perhaps, the husbands who forgot and
didn t post them, and dropped them silently at
the back of the grate after the row started.
* * * *
The Sydney law firm of Carruthers and
Wilson (patronised by Willis) was evidently of
the sort that never let its right hand know what
its left hand was doing. Premier Carruthers—
confronted in the New South Willis Assembly
with a copy of a power of attorney signed on May
20, by which W. N. Willis appointed his wife as
his attorney, with Wilson (Carruthers’ law partner)
as trustee, and which set forth that he (Willis)
intended to leave Australia—explained that he
knew nothing of the document. His junior part-
ner micln t mentionod it to him. I'he power of
attorney was signed on May 20, just when the
Lands Inquiry was getting into its stride,
and was registered and made public property
on June 27. But though the deed was exe-
cuted in his office and appointed his partner a
trustee, and though it was rumored as a wild joke
throughout Sydney, Premier Carruthers knew
nothing about it! It was an awful state of ignor-
ance for a man to be in after all our talk about
compulsory education. Plainly a lesson about
powers of attorney should be included in the
fourth Reader.
® * * *
M.L. Parliament recently underwent the
indignity of being cinematograplied in all the
glory of wig, bell topper, robe, bauble, and
bumbledom. It expressly got together before
noon, and, forming up in line, advanced past the
machine with the dignified solemnity of a pea-
cock. Ihe circus included the Speaker in full-
bottomed wig and robe ; the Chief Clerk and bis
assistant, in their petticoats; and the Sergeant-at-
Arms, in evening dress, staggering under the
Mace. Later in the day a second performance
was gone through. All members who could be
raked m (King Dick included) were marched past
the machine in twos and twos. The pictures are
destined for show in England.
A STATUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Notiee °f motion in the Commonwealth Parliament:
xw aaa 1 V "u° , move t,lat the House approve of a grant of
Victoria t 0 he P pay for a mem °rial of the late Queen
There’s a little Bill that Deakin’s introducing-,
A gentle little Bill that’s all his own,
That will show that Young Australia’s fairly oozing
With a greasy, grand devotion to the Throne.
We must save the shillings that we might have toted,
And go thirsty for the heers that might have been, ’
That five-and-twenty thousand niay be voted
For a statue to the late lamented Queen.
And while our debts ar - heavy on our shoulder
(And to pay them is a job we bravely shirk);
While our I O U’s accumulate and moulder,
And our population’s often out of work
We shall spend the cash we owe (transaction shady !)
In building, on the planet’s farther side,
ine statue of a stolid'German lady
Who lived beyond the usual age—and died !
VIC.
P.


HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHAN
WHISKY
BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
s
HORTHAND
is the Stepping-stone to the Best Positions
in Business Life. We can teach you Short-
hand at and save your time and
money. An easy, speedy, and practical
system. Write for a FREE LESSON and all
particulars. Send at once to
STOTT
& HO ARE’S Business College,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY. [2
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128-130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
Oh ! tliou husky, asthmatic old fellow.
Whom coughing has bent like a bow ;
Thou child with the colic, whose bellow
Disturbs the whole neighborhood so.
0 ! Lad with the appetite hearty,
Whom sweetmeats too greatly allure ;
Now mark what I say, nor depart ye
From Woods’ Great Peppermint Cuke.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.-
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
W.
mt
BEST
THE
WORLD
IN
THE
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KING STREET,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date In the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
The new Westralian Government Auditor
has been trying to find out whether the State s
experiment in hotel-keeping pays or not. The
pub. is at Gwalia, away out in the wilderness,
where J. Bull owns a profitable gold-mine ; and
the local yarn is that the profit that comes up
through the beer-pump flows out in extra-special
accommodation provided for J. Bull’s jackeroo
and for the haw-haw visitor who goes up to see
whether the poppet-heads are sprouting gold yet
or not. The auditor doesn’t go into this branch
of the question ; in fact, he says that he can’t go
into any branch of the question very far, because
no proper accounts are kept; but, so far as he
can make out, the people’s pub. is paying close
upon 6 per cent. Still, it doesn't seem to him
that anything is being allowed for the chips
that are being knocked off the furniture, or the
crockery, or the building, or anything else ; so
the financial result of the experiment is still hazy,
whatever the other results may be.
* * * *
In reply to a woman-journalist (London
Referee) who commented on the humorlessness
of her sex, another woman wrote “ Personally
I am, thank goodness, gifted with a great
abundance of high spirits, and no less plentifully
with a humorous and witty sense. To play a
practical joke, or to be the recipient of one, is one
of my greatest delights. I receive an infinite
amount of fun from this sort of humor... I attribute
my success to my gift of high spirits.” It can’t
have been ’Arry who started the bank-holiday
pastime of exchanging ’ats with the lydies, and
shovin’ one another abowt. It was ’Arriett —
mirthful, humorous, witty, high-spirited ’Arriett.
She’s the mother of practical joking. Who in-
vented that brilliant pleasantry, the “apple-pie
bed”? Woman. And look at all the funny
things she commits for the purpose of tempting
man to chase her into a dark room and kiss her.
* * * *
Considering that Premier Bent poses as a
Tom-of-all-trades, it seems about time for him to
start a Government fish-hawking business in Mel-
bourne, with country-town branches. The public
at large would be all the healthier for an increased
fish diet, and all the richer if they got it at a con-
siderable reduction on the existing “ ring ’’ prices.
Fishermen complain that they are sinfully under-
paid for their produce, and have no inducement to
keep the market well stocked, whilst hawkers
complain of the tactics of the big dealers. A
Government fish agency, properly managed,
would benefit the producers, find employment for
new distributors, reduce the cost of food to con-
sumers who now suffer from excessive meat-eating
-—and the Stinking Fish party would admit that
Socialism had one virtue.
THE SISTER OUTSIDE.
FESTIVE FRMALE : “Gimme a pint.”
CAREFUL PUBLICAN : “No fear. You’ve had enough already.”
FESTIVE FEMALE : “’Souse me. I don't want it for myself. I want it for my mate. She's
lying down outside, and can't walk in.”
Miss Grata Flos Matilda Greig, Vic.’s first
lady lawyer, has breasted the bar, and Chief
T , tkt u c i • r
Jester Madden calls her a graceful innovation,
~, . , f
and speculates on the time coming when she may
be judge :
Oh, Grata, with the lawyer’s ease,
Wilt thou collect tremendous fees?
Or sit austere, with wig on brow,
Administering angel thou ?
The Victorian Government is going to
have the reserve alongside Federal Parliament
House, where the Eight Hours monument stands.
“ beautified ” with flower-beds and grottoes. It is
a pity the monument can’t be beautified. The
tawdry apex of the thing, a gilt ball and three
tarnished B’s, is an eyesore to every Laborite with
a sense of beauty, and a laughing-stock to the few
Tories who can see a joke. If statues were any-
thing to go by, a stranger in Melbourne would
think Rupert Clarke’s late father was the most
important circumstance ever known in Victoria,
and the Eight Hours movement the least. A
beautiful monument by Bertram Mackennal cele-
brates Clarke’s alleged virtues. There is probably
no chance of getting rid of the Eight Hours
column (unless it can be traded off as a
tombstone to some wealthy widow whose hus-
band lived to the age of 888 years); but it would
be worth while for the Eight Hours people to con-
sider whether 190(3, their year of jubilee, will not
be a fit occasion for knocking off the ugly tinsel
top. If it is necessary to preserve the three B’s,
they could be buried under the monument, or
melted and poured over it.
* * *
“ A. 8.” : Vic. Premier Bent’s Bill to-pro-
hibit the smoking of cigarettes by boys should go
a step further and make the sale of cigarettes,
cigarette paper or cigarette machines to anybody,
irrespective of age, a criminal offence. I am not
an anti-tobacco fanatic. I smoke six pipes a day
regularly, and formerly was fool enough to smoke
cigarettes. Therefore, I know the effects of them.
The difference between a pipe and a cigarette is
that a pipe satisfies the craving for tobacco while
a cigarette only feeds it. No man was ever satis-
fied with cigarettes only, and if he smokes 10
packets straight oif the reel, his natural inclina-
tion, requiring a severe wrench to overcome, is to
start the eleventh. This, altogether apart from
the effects of the “drawback”—responsible for
weedy, weak-kneed, anaemic youths all the world
over—and the fact that a youngster of six can
smoke a cigarette without turning a hair, while it
requires a fairly mature stomach to take on a pipe
for the first time. The cigarette is a curse that
should be stamped out on national grounds. A
nation of drunkards or pipe smokers or libertines
may accomplish great things; but a nation of
cigarette smokers will lay down its rifle and trade
off its women to the invading scum of Asia.
* * * *
The Royal Geographical Society of S.A.
has acquired, for the comparative trifle of £2OOO,
the well-known York Gate (London) library of
books relating to discovery (maritime and inland)
and colonisation. The catalogfte covers some
hundreds of pages.
The latest result of the Stinking Fish
campaign, run in England and elsewhere, appears
m the dictum of an English physician :
, . . , ?.. , , , ~ w
Dr. Josiah Oldfield, of Harley-street, argued that
a x Co ti o l drinking was merely- a symptom which resulted
from a diet of cheap Australian meat.
Apparently things have got to that point with the
hysterical Bull that some of him really believes
there was no drinking in England till a few years
ago, when Australian meat began to be imported.
ONLY HER ANKLES.
SHE: “ Who's that ?” HE: “ Dunno. I didn't look at her face.”
Even the foolish frill of “ presenting the
. , ~ . , - ...
Address-m-Reply was exceeded by that
~ r i i tw
punctilious epitome of legal precedent Dr.
Quick, when, at nine in the evening of J uly olst, he
cabbed out at full speed to Lord Northcote to pre-
sent the weary Excellency with a copy of the
Tariff Commission’s progress report. No one
expects his Ex. to read the paper, and it wouldn’t
matter if he never saw it. He has no voice in the
tariff question, and the proceeding was merely a
wasted cab-fare and a needless walloping of horse.
* * * *
“O’Fipp” : -Re Vic. Education Minister
Sachse’s intention to secure colored reproductions
of famous , pictures for S.tatb schools at 2s. 6d.
each (B. 27/7/’O5). Writer of par. jeers at the
pictures as possible half-crown chromos. Con-
sidering that the beautiful three-color reproduc-
tionsin the “Nation’s Pictures” and “Private
Galleries ” series are procurable at the rate of four
for a shilling, or less, it is not likely that M.r.
Sachse will go in for chromos. The man who
wants better reproductions than good three-color
screen work gives is hard to please. State school-
children of earlier generations would ’ have been
K ‘“JX, ‘ »IteS“ r M±?' r B™wn brig wlttt
Millais Greiffenhagen, Abbey, or Fred Walker.
Of course, one won id like to see, in addi-
tion reproductions of the best work of
Australian artists. Excellent three-color pro-
cess work done locally shows that this is feas-
ible. And good black-and-white drawings should
not "be forgotten. The sole decorations of Vic-
torian class rooms, in my juvenile experience of
them, used to be ancient maps, looking like pic-
tures of skin eruptions, an occasional nightmare
portrait of Queen Victoria, and a black-bordered
printed sermon “ in memory of Prince. Leopold.”
And no child cared tuppence whether Leopold
was dead or alive. I fancy some of these weeps
about Prince Leopold are still yellowing on the
walls of remote academies.
* * * *
Tired probably bv numerous recent tales
of aneged P centenanans departing this life, Mr.
Dudley Le louef? Director of Melbourne Zoo,
informs the public that that institution contains a
liitorms ine puu ~. lllt 40 n vears ” arid still
going strong Mr.Le Souef Accounts’ for its age
gom & strong. lii. Aje .. . PXPro i se an d
neve7hu g rrie h s When the Ailous has finished in-
terviewing this quadricentenarian about the good
old times of Queen Elizabeth and Guy Fawkes it
should be relegated to its natural abode, the
Legislative Council, where, if a belltopper were
put on top of its shell, it wouldn’t look at all out
of place.
* ** . ...
The Cobram (Vic.) honorariums lately
gaoled for three months an old battler of 87,
whose sole offence was that he seemed to be too
old to carry a swag any longer, and had no one to
look after him. He had never been m gaol before,
and he soon died. As Coroner Cole put it : “He
had lived in the open air all his life, and shutting
him up was like shutting up a child. Instead of
a benevolent asylum he was sent to gaol, and it
killed him.”
“E.”: The list of Bernard Hall’s pur-
chases for the National Gallery, under the terms
of the Felton Bequest, is at hand. He has done
better than any previous purchaser. He has
obtained 38 works for less than £5OOO, a rather
better result than one small uninteresting Alma-
Tadema for £4OOO. Among them are examples of
Turner (the greatest landscapist), Madox-Brown
and Holman Hunt (pre-Raphaelites), Pissarro (a
representative French impressionist), Rodin (the
greatest sculptor in the world), and Clausen,
Gilbert, Banes, David Cox, Charles Keene, &c.
All these works represent something—a school, a
period, a personality—and are not merely pretty
pictures, dome people would have preferred one
big canvas, with a big name, but better, for the
present, good small works till we get together a
collection that will represent the main currents of
modern art. And if Hall keeps on as he has
begun, Melbourne in time can’t help having one
of the best modern galleries in the world. '
THE OTHER SIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am busy sorting the morning’s post;
My husband puts down his cup to say
“ They’re hanging a man at the gaol to-day,”
And he helps himself to the buttered toast.
Through the lattice window there comes the call
Of sparrows, chirping along the rail,
A great magnolia blossom pale
Spreads its drowsy sweetnesses over all.
The grasses wave on the lawn unshorn ;
Wild bees cling close to the hearts of flowers,
A promise of warmer noontide hours
On the scented breeze from the north is borne.
With no mourning train and no church-bell’s toll,
Where the prison walls rise rough and brown
On the other side of the sunlit town
They are setting adrift a human soul.
My husband pushes the window wide,
I pin in' his coat a late-blown rose,
And out of the shady room he goes
To the amber glare of the world outside.
Now the ten drilled wealth of a vine astray
To the clasp of the lattice frame is caught. . .
I wish I could banish that haunting thought—
“ They’re hanging a man at the gaol to-day! ”
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


Charles Heidsieck
REIMS
EXTRA DRY
☆
FINEST EXTRA Q?
Only One Way To Be Beautiful— use
VALAZE! Absolutely no preparation ever
invented will help you like VALAZE. Thousands
of ladies speak in glowing terms of its wonder-
ful beauty-giving properties and its power to
restore the complexion to its original beauty.
Try one jar to-day—price 3s. 6d. and 6s. ; posted
6d. extra. YALAZE Soap 2s. (lasts six months);
VALAZE Herbs (Aromatic) 3s. 6d. packet;
VALAZE Skin Tonic, most cooling and refresh-
ing 3s. 6d. bottle; VALAZE Face Powders2s.
box (3 tints) to dust on the face. Ask your chemist
or write direct. Mdlle. Rubinstein, 243 Collins-
street, Melbourne. Mention this paper and
receive “ Guide to Beauty ” free. ;
ARNOLD’S BALSAM enjoys the prefer-
ment of the most exacting members of the medical
profession. Arnold’s Balsam is most emphatic-
ally of unsurpassed value in the treatment of
Coughs, Bronchitis, Whooping-Cough; it increases
expectoration and invigorates the mucous mem-
brane lining. At present Arnold’s Balsam is en-
joying a larger sale than any other cough remedy,
due to its wonderful curative properties. Sold at
all stores and chemists.*
Under Patronage.
MADAME MASSE RAN, Corsetiire, of
Collins Street, Melbourne, will be at the
Hotel Metropole, Sydney, from Wednesday,
9th, until Wednesday, 16th instant, both
days inclusive.
m
m
“CR/N^NETTE^
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
ivl ls K
*V RAINCOATS.
The New C orsets
For Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . . ♦
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 8, 1905.
My Dear Arini.—
A man—he doesn’t belong to the Amateur
Fishermen’s Association—told me that he counted
five hundred red hats in the crowd outside the
church where the Gaden-Hordern wedding was
being celebrated. Every woman in this violet-
filled city of ours has a red hat —except the woman
who hasn’t. The motor car that carried bride and
groom off on their honeymoon to Pennant Hills
broke down at Balmain and over an hour was spent
in repairs, so the happy pair—to coin anew
phrase-held a reception of some hundreds of
Balmainiacs. Bride’s brown dressing saved her
from distracting all attention from the repairing.
This same motor is the one that dashes nightly in
such style on the stage of the Royal (“ Midnight'
Mail ”), its blunt nose shining with pride and
polish. It takes eight men to lift it on. Then
Miss Ada Guildford, in a motor-costume of white
cloth with bright facings and veil, comes on,
and the real things—even to the toot and the
odorously-loud trail of redolescence—are all there.
A bride of this month will be Mrs. Jamieson,
who was one of the Misses Joseph, of Marratta
station. Her late husband was in the Gordon
Highlanders, and was killed in the Boer war.
When she married a Christian, she lost the large
fortune bequeathed her by her grandfather, but
regains it by marrying Mr. Reginald Davis (of the
firm of David INathan and Cos.). The Davises
will live in Wellington (M.L.) after the Wedding
March has been played. Do they play the Wed-
ding March in the Synagogue?
Certain names in the passenger lists of steamers
keep the eye a space longer than others. The
name of Mack Jost, a departer by the Macedonia,
for instance. Mr. Mack Jost is a Briton, and
I believe the most notable commercial representa-
tive from the Cold Country who takes Australia
in his periodical rounds. Rumor says his annual
income runs close to £20,000 (everyone is interested
in the fearfully vulgar question of what the other
fellow “makes”). Apart from the fact that he
has put more girdles round the earth than most
men, he is interesting as the disposer of a
chemically-manufactured ruby. It was a superb
stone in color, weight and size, so perfect an
imitation as to deceive experts. Mr. Mack
Jost made no secret of its having come from
a laboratory, and, as such, he sold it in India
to a native merchant for a big figure. Buyer
disposed of it at a profit, and after much trading
it fell into possession of an English lady visitor to
India at about £15,000. She, on returning to
England, heard for the first time of its chemical
compoundage, and. brought a suit against its last
seller for restitution of her money. She lost her
case. Cost of producing this artificial ruby was
so great that its maker did not continue the
industry.
The progressive Mack Jost has a clever wife,
who acts as his secretary and does his typing.
When here, at the Australia, she used to wear
the smartest of long, long red coats, with a high
collar and engraved gold buttons.
Miss Fanshawe—her father’s rank has been
raised during her absence, and he is now a
complete admiral—was, at last accounts, at
Rotorua, otherwise Heartsease Land. Before
much more wattle withereth she will be back here
admiring papa’s new flag. The whole population
of Sydney was wakened by cannon-fire when the
new bunting made its first bright, fresh flap.
Talking of Maoriland reminds me that Maggie
Papakura, the Maori guide, has been on a visit to
the Sees in their eyrie at Wentworth Falls.
The marine product again : Miss May Dalgarno,
a local girl, and a niece of a recent P.M.-G., left
by the Moldavia to be married in London. Her
“ future ” is one of the officers on the steamer on
which she travels. They met on a previous sea-
faring.
Miss Rose Musgrove is now staying at Eaton’s
Pennant Hills Hotel, that the hill air may aid her
slow recovery. Miss Musgrove is just able to get
about, and is still ' in care of a nurse. Before
leaving the hospital she gave the nurses a many-
eoursed and very floral dinner.
S.A. Governor Le Hunte’s new A.D.C., Hon.
Dudley Ryder, it appears, cannot dance, but is
now struggling hard to master the art at Adelaide
Government House. A lady teacher of dancing
attends the vice-regal residence on North Terrace
very frequently, and shows Dudley the goose and
other steps, whilst Lady Le Hunte plays the
piano. He will be one of the debutantes at the
Government House ball.
W. E. Sparke, property owner and wine mer-
chant, "who passed out last week, aged 73, died a
bachelor, but leaves a regiment of nephews and
nieces. The real-estate brigade will be surprised
if Mr. Sparke’sproperty doesn’t pay duty on nearer
a million than £500,000. ’Tis said that one
nephew falls in for nearly half-a-million.
In appearance, “Old Sparkie” was short and
stockily-built; wore an obvious wig, and looked a
plain—a very plain—edition of Mr. Justice Bar-
ton. He made most of his money in the good old
whisky days 40 .years ago. And he was the best
judge of liquor in the State, and an out-and-out
epicure in his food. For years he kept a cook
who was originally in the service of Earl Cowley
when British Plenipotentiary at Paris ; and a
good cook who feeds plenipotentiaries at Paris
generally knows how to boil water without making
it too hard. For the rest, the deceased was fond
of picnics, and dropped his aspirates. His great
pals were Messrs. Fitz Wentworth and “Billy”
Long.
Mr. “ Jack ” Want’s friends will be sorry to
hear that he is ill with congestion of the lungs.
Do you remember that immensely rich old man,
Silas Harding of Victoria, who married a young
second wife and died soon afterwards? The widow
who inherited all the wealth was killed in a vehicle
accident, and her brother and sister, Oldham by-
name, came in for the money. The brother and
his wife are now. living in Sydney. They have
bought Mr. Harry Rickards’ house, “Carthona,”
at Darling Point. Mr. Oldham’s determination
to secure the picture place was just a shade more
acute than the Tivoli man’s reluctance to sell it. It
finally changed owners for £12,000, some £6OOO
more than Mr. Rickards paid for it.
The mereness of man—as shown by advt. :
A LADY, leaving State, would like to meet another
Lady, who would take over nice COTTAGE, with
one gent, boarder, paying high price.
The male boarder has become a chattel to go with
the gas-stove, fixtures and fowls. What is man?
Echo answers, “Something perpendicular, without
feathers.”
Madame Hugo Heernnnn, in dramatic, base-
ment tones : “ Kubelik’s twins / Another adver-
tisement for his violin-playing. The fuss made
about that duo ! What about Hugo’s sextet ? ”
And she waves a photograph of her six young
Heermanns all seated in a row on a plank.
Mr. D.ui O’Connor was in the midst of one of
his usual rosy sky and flower-crowned speeches at
Miss Violet Mount’s benefit concert meeting. An
impatient gentleman in the gathering, who doesn’t
know a verse of poetry from a Brussels sprout,
scrawled a message to the chairman and sent it up
in the middle of Mr. Daniel’s most combustible
blaze of eloquence. “ I’ll take fifty of the highest
Ericed tickets.” Cheque was pinned to the scrawl.
oprano Violet goes to sing at Buenos Ayres and
other places with tender sounding names before
starting study for grand opera in Milan. Great
interest is being taken in her farewell concert, and
Messrs. Barton, Parry, and Merriman, the hon.
secs, of the three leading musical societies, are
acting for her.
That small, picturesque old lady, Mrs. Rose
Elizabeth Selwyn, who for so long has been
living with her niece, Miss Rose Scott, died
yesterday, aged 80 years. Deceased was the
widow of the late Dean Selwyn of Newcastle.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“ A devoted reader of the Argus told me yes-
terday that, since reading that Edward VII. had
signified his royal leaning towards knee-breeches,
he had decided not to order anew dress suit 1 until
he sees if Australia will follow the kingly example. 1
I wanted him to plunge on his luck, but his faith
was hot strong enough. Then I suggested that he
should get an ordinary suit, and stipulate that, if
the blessed change came, the tailor would cut a
bit off it without extra charge, but even that idea
failed to satisfy him.
“ Basso Horace Stevens faces the matrimonial
rails this month, with piquant Miss Eleanor
Chapman. The singer is a dentist by profession,
also an oarsman and a wheat-rust specialist. He
has the elderly choir-boy look of pious melancholy,
but is cheerful for all that. His own hymeneal
chant will be chorused at St. Paul’s Cathedral at
the wedding.
“ Spring head-gear sprouted green and magenta
tones at the Caulfield meeting on Saturday. Miss
Muriel Cumming, the pick of a large, frolicsome
bunch, flourished a saucer-lidded hat having an
undergrowth of roses and mignonette close to the
thatch. Mrs. Clive Miller showed another spring
sample in a shady hat of lilac with floral illustra-
tions about the roof. Mrs. T. Tait heightened the
effect of her forget-me-not blue eyes by trimmings
of blue about her black garb. Mrs. Edward
Miller flourished her well-whaleboned form in dull
mole cloth and a roundish toque swarming with
magenta blossoms.
“ The frilly element descended in thousands on
the three dress shows of the week, and, as usual,
figured in a pitched battle’ round the hat
stands. The significant import label attached to
a head-piece is argument (in the shopper’s mind)
of its being the only specimen of its kind, and it
is scrambled for, unless the price be prohibitive.
The suburban pinner-up is the most comic sight at
a town spread of finery. She is out for points. Her
eyes are hawklike in their craving, and a surrep-
titious pencil dots down trifles that are to aid her
suburban notions. The amateur who runs up her
own blouses is battling too for points, twining the
dummies round, peering into the stitching, the
fastenings, the gussets, the belt pulleys and other
minutiae by which the novice knows how the
Paquins of the trade acquire their effects.
“A sequel to a rapid flirtation among mixed
couples has the same old moral in it. No. 1 wife
philandered with No. 2 husband, while No. 1
husband glared indignantly, and No. 2 wife went
into hysterics. When she (No. 2) recovered she
went abroad to shed her remaining tears on an
Atlantic liner. No. 1 husband bore his anger for
a long time, and then fled silently. In vain the
frivolous wife sought for a note of farewell or an
inky curse among the toilet mats or her bonnet
boxes. The pair of philanderers, being thus left
with a free field and lots of favor, are tolerating
each other with ill-concealed disgust. The attrac-
tion of married folks’ flirtations lies in the
obstacles. Remove the obstacles and the charm
has gone.
“ The Christian scientist is a guileless or very
naive person. One of her, drooping on the virgin
stalk, relates innocently how, returning from toil
the other afternoon, a feeling of heavy fatigue
tugged at her ‘ all-is-well ’ faith. The tiredness
would not be denied. Corns or bunions or chil-
blains cried out for recognition. ‘ I have no
corns, ’ she told her tired spirit. But the spirit
mocked her and called her feet to a halt.
She sought rest. Then in her own words:
‘ One of our most effective readers hap-
pened to look in. I jumped up and ran
to meet him. “In time for tea !” I told him,
and I made some, trying greatly to be brave and
cheerful. He took the tea, enjoyed it, and,
finishing, said : “Mychild, I’m going to prescribe
for you ! ” I said it was nonsense ; I was quite
bright. But hepersisted, and ordered me into my
easy chair, with my feet tucked up. And he read
to me. By degrees all fatigue, all pain, all irrita-
tion had vanished. A feeling of perfect peace
stole to my spirit. On and on he read. Pre-
sently I slept. When I woke, the reader was
gone, and I was as a giant refreshed. Oh, the
power of the word qf light! ’ She seemed quite
serious. It was impossible to make any close
inquiries about Mr. Reader. Of such is the
naivete of the Christian Scientist.
“ The Vic. artists went into masks and dominoes
for their annual fling at the Galleries on Saturday
night. It wasn’t a wild Bohemian Quartier Latin
revel exactly, the girls (burglar-masked) refusing
to be ‘ mashed ’ sans ceremony by any frisking
cavalier. The set that took the bath bun was
that of The Order of the Bath—men in pyjamas
and the girls in towel garb. Consul Pinschof’s
two jaunty daughters scored in their towel rigs.
One impressive dasher—Mrs. J. Brind—as a
Souter lady, with a white cat silhouetted on a
staff, and various other snowy purrers scrolled on
the tail of a wonderfully cut black velvet gown,
was a handsome compliment to the Bulletin
artist.
“ A dainty little grand-daughter of Oculist Gray
(Miss Molly Wilson) played a small part in
‘Trilby.’ Besides a few lines, she had a festive
leg to fling about and flung it to good artistic
account. A cousin (Miss Ruby Gray) drifted into
the grease-ranks for a while, and drifted out again
without making any splash.
“ Nice girls have nice new posts open to them
now as assistants to doctors and dentists. A
Yank, medico started the idea, and it catches on
sure. The fair help in a nurse’s uniform un-
skewer'* the rich ones hat, takes charge of her
hair, and hovers gently near during lance probings
or dental squirms. Sometimes she sympatheti-
cally holds the patient’s hand. The male kind of
patient finds this a delicate attention.
“ Any old sort of weather is considered season-
able for the golfer. Three inches of rain and
spacious mud-puddles do not interfere with the
slie-devotees here. Away they tramp in riding-
boots or goloshes with gaiter continuations ; oil-
skin coats cover three-quarters of their persons
and a deep kid border the rest, and a sou-wester
or rough-weather hat, is lashed on taut. Sand-
ringham sees them in all weathers. After a down-
pour they wring themselves out, squat by the
Club House fire a while, and then tramp home,
out of curl but seldom with colds.
“ A dame who looms high in the public and
social view was asked to adjudicate in a difficult
little matter a while ago. In a certain society,
over which the dame presides, two members had a
grievous falling-out. One stood to her ground
doggedly (which is something stronger and better
than cattishly), and the other cried for revenge.
The dame had a confab and a pick of a
chicken’s wing in private with each of the parties,
and peace was proclaimed. The confabs were
under the seal of secrecy, but one can easily guess
the trend of each little tete-a-tete. To agree in toto
with each, and ask for a large tolerance for the
other misguided wretch, was the only course that
could result in perfect peace. The one irresistible
appeal in all scratch skirmishes is, ‘ She’s not a
lady. That’s the trouble, poor thing.’ So Cat
No. lis mollified. Same thing judiciously served
to Cat 2 leaves her purring with amicable intent.
“ The beauty man of a certain theatrical co.
frequents a cafe for his scone, always with his
wife. Most girl onlookers do not know they are
a prosaic married pair, and spin fancies galore.
Most often the man is silent. His profile remains
in unbroken line, and a favorite pose is to lean his
noble bump of veneration on a rigid forefinger,
while his wife laps up her tea with relish.
Romantic girls have invented the yarn that
Adonis wilts because the lady of the appetite is
unconcerned. But really Adonis has a rebellious
digestion, and wifie a grand passion for muffins,
and away in the background is a baby that howls
healthfully for barley-sugar.
“It’s not every charmer who knows in the
course of a wooing when to skip away. An in-
teresting professional was just about to fall a
victim to the wiles of Phyllis, when the fair one
levanted to a farm for the cream and roses of
rusticity. Mamma keeps the swain posted with
rural notes to date, and maintains his anxiety on
the bubble. By the time the coy Phyllis returns
that ardent young man will be ripe for a proposal.
If not, all calculations will be out.
“All the Convent ‘old girls’ rushed to ‘The
Gondoliers ’ to note how their chums, Dolly
Castles and Aggie Thorn, shaped. They were
absorbed in the twinklings of the once bashful
Dolly. That young scorer foots it gaily, flashing
lingerie laces right in the R.C. eye, and philan-
dering with Gondolier Kenningham with the most
sprightly comic opera knowingness. The Convent
chicks looked on amazed ; Dolly had beenllearning
a few things on tour despite (or perhaps with the
help of) a sheep-dog. Aggie Thorn was found
to have advanced in pertness, pirouetting, and the
cosy-corner business. But she always evinced
possibilities that way. The other lady didn’t.
“ Miss Beatrice Day says the two eminent
actresses who charm her most are Duse and Mrs.
Pat Campbell, because both are deeply passionate
in their stage manner, and suggest rather than
flaunt tempest and fire. Bernhardt is inflammable
always, on wires always, still never. The intense
quiet of Duse and Mrs. Pat is a powerful force.
Both women have had tragic lives, winds up Miss
Day significantly. In that case it would seem that
from the wreck of happiness the artist nature
acquires an impressive repose. Moral to artists :
Avoid the capacity for devouring 12 hard-boiled
eggs at a sitting, like the abnormal Bernhardt.
“Miss Elmes, otherwise ‘Lino’ of Melbourne
Argus, has been succeeded on the Granny journal
by Miss Bunchie Wheeler, a relative of the
Howard Willoughbys.
“ The latest party notion is the ‘ Photograph
Tea.’ All the guests bring their earliest photos,
and a guessing, or recognition, competition sets in.
It is a difficult thing to recognise in a naked babe
making goo-goo eyes from a ‘ property ’ shell the
Titian-haired dazzler of the day. Some cats do
another kind of guessing. They know from the
occasional embroidery of the little baby clothes
what year ’twas and how many are to be reckoned
to the photographed one’s credit from that epoch.
‘Claudia must be 27,’ whispers one to t’other.
That’s the form much of the guessing takes.
“A smart little business woman took a novel
means of dunning a Johnnie Who was behind in
his payments. After sending earnest solicitations
for the settlement of the account a score of times,
she got herself up sprucely, and took the first train
after breakfast to the young man’s home. She
was conducted to the drawing-room. There she
waited with her demurest smile, while Suzette
took her business card to the tardy one. Excuses
of a headache, ‘would call at the lady’s shop
later,’ fell on obdurate ears. ‘l’ll wait,’ said the
early caller, with a gentle smile. Then the family
came in one by one, demanding to know the little
lady’s business. ‘ Just a bill,’ she explained. ‘ A
few pounds .merely, but one must live.’ Then one
of the family wept, and all the'others were angry,
and the account was settled on the: spot.
“Sydney women will have achance of looking the
hour-glass of fashion for the September festivities.
Madame Masseran has gone-over betimes—that is
before the clothes-builder takes measurements for
Randwick raiment—to see to Sydney waists.
“The Ledinghams, well-known golfers, are back
from a globe-trot, the dame with hats, hair and
frocks up-to-date. Six months were found
sufficient to allow of a gad round Europe, and a
look at the Louvre, and a round of shopping. The
pair talk of the Victorian coterie in the Big
Smoke, and the condescension of ex-Governors to
the clan. Condescension isn’t the word applied,
but it suggests itself. ‘The Linlithgows are
kindness itself’ ! Of course, any globe-trotter
saying that scores nine points for herself and only
t’other goes to the Linlithgows. It’s an unwise
gadder who returns and gives out that the Brasseys,
or the Hopetouns, or the Clarkes, were snorty.
It argues a snub right away. ‘ I found all the ex-
Vice-Regals absolutely charming. So nice ! ’
That’s what the wise remark.
“ A Collins-street man complains that the confi-
dence extended by upholstered Beauty to the doc-
tor is not stretched to the dentist. Up to the final
tug at the tooth, the slie-patient contrives to keep
her transformation, if not exactly in place, some-
where on her head. ‘lt is ludicrous,’ one com-
plains, ‘ to see the distracted efforts of the women
to keep their hair on. What do we care if they
wear a whole cushion on their heads, as long as we
can collar the tooth. One day when a patient of
mine who wouldn’t run to the expense of gas, but
wanted a tough old molar removed without pain,
held to her wig through all preparations. I asked
her brutally to drop the hair or I would drop the
operation. The wig went, but her tears streamed
over my hands and filled me with regret. Ever
since I have let women hang on to their trans-
formations and other delusions.’
An Adelaide correspondent:—
Social Adelaide is this year complaining of a mayor
whose entertainments, so far, have been few and far
between, and scarcely lavish. In place of the usual
festive hop at the Exhibition Building, at which 3000 or
4000 citizens were wont to disport themselves, present
Worship invited 900 to a “ bread and butter ” dance at
the Town Hall. That meant limiting the cards. In one
family, where two daughters had always been invited,
only one received an invitation. Mamma thought it
was an accident, and accepted for Mr., Mrs. and the
Misses ; whereat she was honored with a brief note, re-
questing her to examine her invitation and correct her
error. In another case pa and ma only were invited, and
inquired if they might relinquish their invitations in favor
of their son and daughter. An intimation was received that
they might do nothing of the kind, as their space was
badly wanted. So there are gruriibles. But why should
the Mayor be called upon to “entertain ” at all? Wouldn’t
it be, on the whole, better to seek out a Mayor, not for his
hospitality, but, say, for his ability to get a good tram ser-
vice going? The Adelaide horse trams, by the way, are
responsible for anew iniquity—they have set in motion
the worst pun on record. “ The Norwegians are more
fortunate than we are ; they’ve got rid of their oss-car.”
Then the humorist laughs horribly.
Adelaide will see a big thing in weddings on 16th
August, when Gladys, younger daughter of Mr. Lewis
Cohen, and Mr. Ralph Krantz are to be married. Invitations
issued are so numerous (rumor puts them at from 500 to
as many thousand) that the Town Hall has been engaged
for the ceremony. Bride-elect is a friendly clinging
young thing of 19 or so, with a very charming manner,
and, being one of a family of smart dressers, should look
“sweet” on the great occasion. Bridegroom is not so
well known, but is said to be afflicted with money.
Now it’s my turn again :
Consul-General Pinard and Madame, when
they entertain their countrymen at Double Bay,
throw crow-feeting years behind them and become
as little children. Lately they had a large party,
all grown up, and they played oranges and lemons,
and ring-a-ring-a-rosy, hide-and-seek, and cat’s-
cradle, and if they didn’t come down to noughts
and crosses it was because they didn’t think of that
exciting pastime.
(Continued on page 28.)


NERVES ON FIRE
Neuralgia for 17 Years.
Worst Case on Record Cured
by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“ TF I talked from now till the day of judg-
ment I couldn’t tell you one-half what I
suffered with Neuralgia,” said Mrs. Eliza
M. Bevan, Hill-St., Forbes. “It tortured
me for 17 long years. I was nearly out of my
mind with pain when I started Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People. After the second box
the Neuralgia began to ease up. But the pain
was stubborn, and it was weeks before the pills
were able to drive it clean out of my system. I
had to take seventeen boxes altogether. But then
I was cured for good. When I wrote to Sydney
and told Dr. Williams about my case, he said it
must have been the worst case of Neuralgia in all
Aqstralia, for he had never known another case
that needed anything like so many boxes of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills to cure it.
“Years ago my health began to break down. I
felt myself growing weaker every month. I could
not keep my strength up, for I lost .all appetite.
Some days I wouldn’t have a bite inside my
mouth. Other days, when I did eat a little, I
suffered agony with indigestion. Everything I
swallowed seemed to lie like a ton weight on my
chest. Eating gave me so much torture that 1
grew to hate the sight of food. I got thinner and
thinner. From one week’s end to another, I wai
too tired to move. I let myself run down to the
lowest ebb. Every scrap of strength left me. 1
was as wdkk as a baby. There wasn’t a month
passed without me having a fainting fit. If I sat
down to read for awhile, I used to feel tins faint-
ness stealing over me. Sometimes when speaking
to a friend in the street, I had to excuse myself
quickly so that 1 could get away and save myself
from dropping down in a dead swoon.
“When the Neuralgia was bad a hot, burning
rush of pain would shoot from my chin up to the
crown of my head every few minutes. The agony
was so frightful that I had often to cry out. I
couldn’t bear the slightest touch on my face.
Everj time I opened my mouth a pain that I
could never describe darted up through mv brain.
My head felt as if the top were lifting off. If any-
one came behind me and put their hands on my
chair, it sent a spasm of agony through my face
and head far worse than if I had been burnt with
a red-hot iron. No one ever had Neuralgia like I
had.
“When the doctor couldn’t cure my Neiira 1 -’ ,
I thought the terrible pain must come front my
teeth,” Mrs. Bevan added. “I must have one
fully twenty times to have them out —hi i the
dentist wouldn’t draw them. lam glad now (hat
he wouldn’t. I tried no end of liniments and
lotions, but I might as well have saved my money,
for all the good they did me. At last, I trie Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. I took two
boxes before I could see that they were doing m ;
the least good—but I would have gladly taken
dozen boxes to be one day free from the Neuralgia.,
By the time I had taken the seventeen boxes, I
was back in splendid health. Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills gave me an appetite such as I never hoped
to have. For three years I have not had a single
sign of my old Neuralgia—so it is plain that when
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured me, they cured me
for good.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured Mrs. Bevan
because they actually made new blood for her.
That one thing is all they do—but they do it well.
They don’t act on the bowels. They don’t bother
with mere symptoms. They go straight down to
the root of the matter in the blood, and cure that.
And from that one root, bad blood, spring half
the common ailments such as bloodlessness,
indigestion, biliousness, headaches, backaches,
lumbago, rheumatism, sciatica, neuralgia, ner-
vousness, St. Vitus’ dance, spinal complaint,
general weakness, and the special secret ailments
that attack women and growing girls, whenever
their blood supply becomes irregular or overtaxed.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure all these blood
troubles, because they actually make new blood.
If you are not quite sure whether your illness is
caused by bad blood, write for free medical ad vice
to Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney. From
the same address you can also order the genuine
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills by mail, 2s. 9d. a box;
u..; boxes 15s. 3d., post free.
WILLIAMS 9
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE.
EOPLE
PERSONAL ITEMS.
,'T. M. Slattery, who is now .in Maoriland,
•says that he will not return to N.S.W. until he
•can square up his deficit.
The late Rev. Rainsford Bavin first
preached when he was 16 years of age, and con-
tinued at it till he died in Sydney at 61.
According to Sydney Worker
Wherever Mr. Carrnthers goes nowadays he is accom-
panied by two detectives.
Presumably they are on duty to keep him from
finding out what his late law partner is doing.
Nick Willis, according to a Sydney news-
paper which professes to be in his confidence, was
bound for Madagascar, “ where he has a princi-
pality.” Thence Prince Willis was to proceed on a
European tour.
Miss Greig, Victoria’s first lady barrister,
is a slight, fair, Scotch-accented, merry, dancing,
soeietv-loving young person—the reverse of what
is popularly supposed to be the advanced woman
type. She has two sisters who are qualified
medicos.
Some other birthdays in August are .
Poynton, M.H.K., 52 on the Bth; “Bleeds
Fitchett, some indefinite number of years, on
the 9th; Senator Fraser, 70 on the 21st; J. W.
Moore (Tas.), 82 on the 22nd; Ex-Premier Cock-
burn (S.A.), 55 on the 23rd.
Is there a Dowie curse ? When ’Lija was
in Sydnev, one of the notable persons to have
trouble with him was Nick Willis. The Dowie
disturbances culminated the night a huge mob
congregated outside Dowie’s hotel and chanted
“We want Dow-ie! We want Dow-ie ! Now
the cry is “ We want Willis ! ”
Victoria’s first woman barrister and solici-
tor—Grata Flos Matilda Greig—admitted last
week, made a good start m her profession. She
had been admitted barely three hours when she
earned her first fee. By the way, is Miss Greig
Gentleman One or Lady One !
Afine example of journalistic enterprise was
provided recently by a young Australian, brother
of the central figure of a sensational Northern
tragedy, who wrote by the first post after the
arrest, offering portraits of his relative to all the
illustrated papers at a price commensurate with
the seriousness of the case.
A statue in Sydney to the late P. N.
Russell is talked about. In private buildings or
private grounds statues have a meaning that only
concerns the proprietors of the premises, but before
being obtruded on public places the public should
have a say. The late ironfounder would be a
dreadful person for the public to gaze upon till
his image wore out.
Oliver Bainbridge, now off to China,
found Australians stone deaf to his alleged dis-
coveries about Black Jews. In the first place,
his theories were sawn out in a manner which, tor
dreary woodenness, was almost a record ; and in
the second place, many of his listeners knew more
about Papua than he did, and didn’t even find his
ignorance picturesque.
N. S. W. Arbitration Court has been sin-
gularly unlucky. One of its first members, Mr.
Cruickshank, is invalided. Now of the present
court, the President, Judge Heydon, is ill; the
employers’ representative, Mr. Wright, is suffering
from pneumonia ; and the employees representa-
tive, Mr. S. Smith, is also seriously ill, and just
minaged the other day to crawl down and adjourn
proceedings.
PUTTING 'EM ON THE LAND.
GREAT AND INTELLIGENT STATESMAN : “ There,
now! One, two, three , OFF!”
F. E. Winchcombe, who lately resigned
his seat for Ashfield in N.S.W. Assembly,
belonged to the somewhat better type of the com-
mercial M.L.A. He tried to understand things ;
he tried to act on the square; he tried to keep
from the party gutter. But over and above every-
thing he prided himself on his private business—
taller an’ ’ides.
E. W. Carey, the man who left a building
society lamenting in Melbourne, was sighted a
couple of months ago in New York by a former
friend. Carey was an artist in assuming the airs
of high respectability. One of his latest per-
formances was to urge the blackballing of a
candidate for a, certain club on the ground of
impecuniosity - and general failure to pay up.
Judge Gordon (S.A.), whose eldest son
d'ed of consumption contracted while on service
in South Africa, has just lost his only surviving
sin by a shooting accident. The deceased was
only 21 vears old, and reckoned the best amateur
rider, as well as the most daring, m Adelaide.
He was on horseback when he was shot, and his
dead body was dragged along till found with one
foot in the stirrup.
A few of the late Duncan Gillies’ Tory
friends —Speaker Frank Madden and the like—
are moving to perpetuate his memory with a bust
in Vic. Parliament House. There will be no need
of any memorial of Gillies so long as the unfortu-
nate State that he bossed for some years has to
pay interest on his wild-cat railway loans. Still,
if a memorial must be put up, there is-nothmg
like a bust. Gillies made the biggest public bust
Victoria ever saw.
The late W. E. Sparke, of Elizabeth Bay
(Sydney) made his early coin in wines and spirits.
He never married, and never received ladies of a,ny
‘Tade at his elegant home at the Bay, excepting
his immediate relatives. He was a Sydney native,
born in the old Australian Inn, Lower George-
street. Yet he imported from England every
article in use at “St. Monans.” Some, years ago
he met with a serious accident in his bath, through
the explosion of the heating apparatus, which
somewhat disfigured him; And, strtfnge to say, he
died in the bath. That same bath is a work of
art, hewn out of a solid block of Carrara marble—
and imported, of course.
Judge Heydon, just appointed by Attorney-
General Wade as acting judge of N.S. W. Arbitra-
tion Court with the status of a Supreme Court
iudge was given his post as District Court judge
bv the Lyne Ministry, in spite of the strong
opposition of W. R Crick ; and Wade was at the
time strongly tipped for the post. Cricks
antagonism to Judge Heydon is said to have had
its rise in the Dean ease conspiracy prosecutions
undertaken by the Reid Ministry (of which
Carruthers was a member).
Thomas Bent became reminiscent when up
in Gippsland lately, and moralised on the vanity
of human achievements and the ingratitude of
democracies—especially that of Gippsland. W hen
he went up to Maffra years ago, as Minister ot
Railwavs, to open the so-far unpayable Maffra-to-
Stratford line, the whole countryside turned out
to greet him, and a triumphal arch notified that
“ Maffra welcomes Maffra’s choice.” But when,
a few years later, as a rejected politician and a
busteddand-boomer, he journeyed therein a small,
seedy way to sell some property he held m the
locality, no one met the train, no one knew him,
even the publican who had effusively welcomed
him before answered his call for a beer with the
stony stare of oblivion. Bent seems to be late m
discovering this regrettable trait of humanity, but
at least he has learnt it at last. Some men never
learn.
Geo. Miln’s wife, whom Australia knew as
Miss Louise Jordan (a most accentuated Amur-
rikan actress), published her first novel the other
week, a story about the familiar early married
woman, with the wrong husband beside her. and
the right man waiting for her in the future.
Louise Jordan Miln inherited a literary turn, and
her journalistic style is good, Her maternal
grandfather was Professor Wilson—“ Christopher
North,” editor of Blackvvood’s Magazine and
writer of “ Noctes Ambrosianse. 1 robably Mrs.
Miln’s mother was the Miss Wilson whose sweet-
heart hadn’t the pluck to “speak to papa. The
damsel carried his proposal to papa, and the old
man was agreeable. “But,” said he, if youi
suitor is so shamefaced, I had better write my
reply, and pin it to your back.” Miss Wilson
returned to her sighing swain (William Aytoun),
and looked away from him whilst he read the
note. It was addressed to him with the authors
compliments.
Ex-Premier Butler, of S.A., is a sad,
depressed, weepy, self-conscious man whom
nature intended to be a black horse dragging a
black hearse. He always has a grievance against
some one, and he doesn t fight over his grievance ;
he weeps. He has now written to the papers to
weep that the Price Government is m some
respects onlv carrying out his ideas, and he re-
gards that g,s a Bitter Wrong. But the House
didn't throw out Butler because he had these
ideas. It ejected him because it wasn’t sure that
he had them, because it didn’t believe lie would
carry them out if he had them, pfecause he
had other ideas it didn’t approve of, and
because he lacked some more ideas. Also
it threw him out because of his weeps. Ho
far as Parliament was concerned Butler re-
tained office as Premier for a less time than
Sudden Solomon. The weeper was made Premier
in recess, when Jenkins fled to England and the
Agent-Generalship, and the Assembly, by a large
majority, told him to go and weep somewhere else
within an hour of its meeting. Solomon and his
large whiskers were in office for a week during a
Parliamentary session, although it is true that he
was also shot out directly the House got a chance
to shoot.
Hugh Barton Corbin, B.Sc., an ex-Uni-
versity student of Adelaide, has been distinguish-
ing himself at the
South Kensington
(London) School of
Mines. As the
best of 80 students
in geology he has
been awarded a
gold medal and a
valuable prize of
books. Before
going to England
Corbin had charge
of the Government
cyanide works at
Arltunga (S.A.),
and he took a pro-
minent part in the
opening up of the
alleged gold-fields
in the M‘Donnell
Ranges.
Geo. Swinburne, the Minister who has
charge of Victoria’s splendid Water Bill, and is
struggling to secure for the people absolute control
of all water supply in the State, is chairman of
directors of the most prosperous private water
supply in Australia —the one the Broken riili
mines and town depend upon. But Swinburne
only came into the co. some time after it was
formed, and when its rights had been secuied,
and because of it he knows what a valuable thing
a water supply is to own. Swinburne’s specialties
are gas and water —he is probably the best-known
gas engineer in Australia.
WHEN THE GALL COMES.
What is Australia’s chance?
The alliterative thanks of Edwards, the
Vic. homicide, to press, public and police for their
kindness, courtesy and consideration lead one to
think that he should have been a pressman. His
descriptive article about Skinner s scattered skull
or the gurgling gore of Girrgaree would have been
a small fortune to a Sunday paper.
Recently passed out in Adelaide a harm-
less old “ looney ” known as “Dennis,” who used
to haunt the S.A. Treasury and State Bank
offices. The old chap reckoned that the whole
State rightfully belonged to him. He would
hobble into the Treasure, and in the mossiest
brogue request that his revenues be handed over.
The clerks, with profuse apologies, would regret
that a full statement had not yet been made up.
and would tender the monopolist threepence on
account and a bundle of old Gaze? ms, from
which he was told he could get some idea of
the aino int remaining due to him. Dennis was
always satisfied, and never complained in the
press, like some of his fellow capitalists, of the
dilatoriness of State officials.
There lately died at Newcastle (N.S.W.),
full of veirs and sanctity, the once notorious Poll
Cott whose life story was published a decade ago
under the title “ A Tale of a Termagant. ’ As a
giddv colleen in her teens, Mary Maguire was
transported hither from the Ould So t for the
weirin’ of the green, or some other frivol, and, by
the Governor’s permission, was soon allowed to
marry one Cott, a settler. The price of her matri-
monial stock went up far above rubies, and re-
mained there until the early death of her only
child, when it slumped below rum. She accused
the doctor who attended her infant of having
murdered it. For this alleged defamation of
character the bereaved mother got three months,
at the end of which period the doctor was sorry it
wasn t more, for she went for him personally,
wrecked his surgery, and scratched the beauty off
several of the six policemen who were necessary to
her re-arrest. Thenceforward the termagant let
herself go altogether, and for 40 years trod the
path of sin which leads to 257 convictions, chiefly
for drunkenness and police-assaults. At this
stage her emotions took a religious turn, and for
the last 20 years she was a local show exhibit
of the Salv’Army.
Of the Price Government (S.A.), two
(Peake and O’Loughlin) are natives of the State,
and the others (Price and Kirkpatrick) are English-
born. Price is a Methodist lay-preacher, like
almost everybody else in S.A., and a total
abstainer, like almost everybody else in b.A.
O’Loughlin is a cold-water man and a Koman
Catholic.
“ E.” on the lady barrister
Miss Grata Flos Greig was admitted to practice at the
Victorian Bar last week, and Chief Justice Madden ex-
pressed a polite hope that the honor of her “ noble ’’ pro-
fession —how these lawyers delight to butter themsel' es .
—would be as well preserved in her hands as in the hauler
and larger paws of her learned brethren. In the matter
of professional honor Miss Greig is quite likely to outsu.ne
her learned brethren. She may feel womanly scruples
about charging fees which she hasn t attempted to tarn.
She is practically certain to be sober when she conus into
court to plead for her client. She will not adopt a c< arse,
bullying tone to hostile witnesses. In short, she wdl do
everything that becomes a woman, and enneavor
to score on the strength of her sex. And that's where the
unfairness of the fair creature comes in. Miss Greig is
entitled by Act of Parliament to a professional advantage
which men barristers don’t enjoy as yet, and which will
in a measure tend to put wisdom and experience out of
Court if they ever do get it. She can address juries and
Judges, with whom her sexual charm will go for a little,
or go for much, whether they be influenced willingly or
otherwise. There can be no equality between two sexes-
of pleaders whilst the pleaded persons are of one sex.
The history of legal proceedings thusfar has bristled with
instances of male susceptibility to the arts and graces of
female defendants, plaintiffs and witnesses. The sex sense
is a good deal stronger than the moral sense of justice
when it has to decide between a fascinating woman and a
mere man. This has been the experience of human nature
where the administration has rested with the male animals.
And if women ran the judicial show, the sex sense would
have greater power for injustice in so far that a sweetly
pretty plaintiff would be terribly disadvantaged in com-
petition with an ordinary young man defendant ; the
man would get sympathy for his manhood, whilst the
woman excited something of suspicion, if not animosity,
for her good looks. These objections to the licensing of
Miss Flos Matilda Greig and any future Miss Greig are
as old as the most discredited doctrines of Toryism. The
writer is fully conscious of his incapacity to accept
advanced ideas as regards female barristers. But he
reckons that human nature hasn’t budged an inch since
God made it. As long as man and woman continue to
exercise a purely sex influence over one another the
admission of women pleaders among male pleaders in a
court composed of men only will be palpably injudicious.


Hotel
Australia
RATES FROM
12s, 6d. per Day.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of
guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney,
Wolfe s Schnapps counteracts the effect
of bad liquors, bad beer, bad water. It cures the
troubles they bring on. Wolfe’s Schnapps : A
pure extract of selected barley and the curative
Juniper berry, distilled in Holland.*
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE / n steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
mm
m
m
m
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHINERY
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH.
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
* «! St, Sydney
P.O. Box 858.
Telephone 2075.
FALIERES’ PHOSPHATINE
A Valuable adjunct to Infantile Dietary,
i'r rents who would rear Strong Ch ldren.and avoid
the troubles incidental to Teething, should use it*
;
fMsmim
_ tawerss-
FOOD FOR INFANTS ft INVALIDS
Air. Chemists and Gkocbxs.
Aboriginalities.
Fremantle (W.A.) Customs authorities
have been learning something of the ways of the
wily Indian immigrant. Nine months ago, Mood
Chand arrived per steamer at Fremantle, and
explained suavely that he was a member of the
Indian civil service visiting Australia to study
local official customs. On the strength of his
yarn, backed up by testimonials, he was granted
a domicile certificate, entitling him to remain in
the Commonwealth for six months. Next, the
Customs officials learned that the distinguished
visitor was grafting in Fremantle for another
colored gentleman, and inquiries followed. Mood,
being asked to explain certain points, blandly
stated that he hadn’t any convincing explanation
about him, but would find securities for his
departure if his certificate were extended for
another six months. Vexed at his cool cheek, the
authorities summoned Mood to appear at the
Customs office for a personal consultation. Mood
replied that he’d see them thugged first. Then the
authorities swooped down in wrath, and gave the
illustrious visitor a practical illustration of “local
official customs ” by bundling him on board the
Orontes and starting him back to India, with his
turban badly disarranged.
* * * #
“Jim Pan.”: Re “ Gilrooney ” and the
bushman’s almost inexhaustible vocabulary of
occupation labels (B. 27/7/’O5) —he has omitted a
name which the angry hullock-driver calls himself
when he wants to heap contempt instead of
curses on lazy, troublesome bullocks—“cow-con-
ductor.” Of course, a bullock-pilot has to be
outrageously mad to use such awful language. A
boundarv-rider on Whycanya station told me that
the best hack he ever rode went and suicided, by
cutting its throat on the barbed wire round the
cultivation paddock, the very day after being
called a cow.
* * * *
How the country cow-prodder clings to his
filth. The millc-and- butter folk of Port Fairy
district (Vic.) have risen in a unanimous body
and ordered their local member to violently
oppose the appointment of Government dairy
inspectors for their unclean shire. The spectacle
of an infuriated cOwist hanging on to his dirty
cow-bail to the last gasp, and being finally torn
away from it by the Law, is too painful for words.
This affection for filth on the part of the moo-
urging fraternity seems to suggest that there isn’t
much difference between the cow and the person
who drags the pale fluid from its baggv parts
Everybody who has studied the bull’s'aunt at
close range knows that it takes a fiendish delight
in wading through slime, and it seems to have
learned its dirty habits from its owner.
* * * *
“ Nymsie”: “ 8.5.” cannot understand
how it is boomerang throwing is not adopted as a
branch of athletics (B. 17/7/’O5). Anyone who has
tried throwing the curved curse understands. In
the early sixties boomerang and spear throwing
were amongst the chosen outdoor amusements of
youth and brawn in the N.E. district of Victoria.
Possessing boomerangs as a craze beat swopping
colored meerschaums—then a habit much in vogue,
and throwing spears was an accomplishment every
white buck of note sought to excel in. A number
of young full-bloods from the tribe (or tribes) that
used to corroboree at the junction of the Ovens
and Iving rivers occasionally lingered round
Wangaratta and other townships, selling weapons,
and giving lessons to aspirants in the native arts.
As long as the dusky tutors were sober our limbs
were safe ; but when King Billy was full of beer
we had to scatter for our lives, as the erratic
skull-cracker came home to roost. Some of us got
fairly proficient at the game, but I have never
found a white thrower, and few blacks, who could
be relied on at “boomeranging” two days run-
ning. So after the blacks had gone off ’possuming
(in those days the craving for ’possum was stronger
at times with the healthy rovers than the desire
for rum), we used to oil our boomerangs, and pile
our spears in the drawing-room spare corners as
curiosities, awaiting the return of our mentors.
Their visits grew gradually less as they were called
to the happy ’possum-tree Up Above ; and, closer
settlement becoming the order of things, there were
no large enough spaces available for practice.
Boomeranging gets back on a man in the long run
worse than politics, and always leaves a scar, if
not a tombstone. Spear throwing is a fine cold
weather pastime, but where are the spears to
come from ?
* * * *
“ Robert Hap ” :
“D.11.R.” is off again, and “Elmore” is the victim.
“D.” riddles with adjectives “E.’s” statement that
dingoes do not bark. (I wouldn’t be surprised to hear
that the native dog coo-ees to his mates—especially when
he hears David on the warpath.) In order to prove his
assertion that “the genuine wild dingo” barks, D.11.R.
(B. 3/8/’O5) cites instances where dingoes taken as puppies
have, on arriving at doghood, barked as truly as any
town canine. Well, a parrot in his native state will not
use profane language, but take him young and there are
possibilities in that direction. And if “Dave H.R.” owned
the dingoes that he writes about I would say that their
barking was due to environment. It is no use for
“ D.H.R.” or anybody else to answer this. I have obtained
permission from the Lands Commission to absent myself
for medical treatment, and am fleeing to Africa, where I
won’t see the paper.
A FEARFUL
THREAT.
LADY: “ Garn, give
us thruppcnce.”
DUDE: “ Na; go away.”
LADY: “Come on, give us thruppcnce, or I’ll sag
I’m yer sister.”
“The Prooshan” : To poison the wiliest
dingo with certainty and despatch, fasten the
innards of a sheep to a rope, mount your pony,
and ride round a circle, with diameter of a quarter
of a mile, three times, always dragging the paunch,
&c. Next, take sheep’s liver, and slit the baits
round the edges, top and bottom, being careful to
avoid touching them with the hands ; then insert
strychnine and carbonate of soda alternately in
the slits, put all baits into a bag hung round the
body, mount the pony again, and pitch the baits
along the circuit at intervals of a hundred yards
or so, using a fork in sowing the dingo seed. Next
morning go round early and remove the dingoes.
Many advocate the use of clotted blood for bait
during winter, but nothing tempts dingo like liver.
* * * •
“ Gip ” : Once met half-a-dozen wild busli-
men in Sydney—they had come in as witnesses in
a land squabble. Some of them
had never before left the sta-
tion where they were bred, ex-
cept for a jaunt to the nearest
post-office. On the day of
their arrival they huddled to-
gether in a room at the top of.
a lofty pub., frightened to go
out. Curiously enough, when
they did venture into the
streets, it wasn’t the shop-
windows or the crowds that in-
terested them, but the horses
in lemonade carts and cabs. I
saw them nearly come to blows
one day, near the Strand, over
a horse which one man thought
“ the dead spit o’ Jim Rorke’s
chestnut.” The others didn’t
agree with him. One old fellow
used to walk up and down the
cab-ranks, examining the gee-
gees’ mouths and feet. Another
used to tie his handkerchief to
a prominent post near his pub.,
“so he’d know it agen.” He
never could understand why
the wipe disappeared. The hurrying business
men mystihed them exceedingly. ” “ Was there
races on?” they ask, in the soft bush voice.
“ Where was they tearin’ to ? ” But Sydney was
a dull place to them.
* * * *
“Pommery” : Stories of champagne sup-
pers and explosion of big cheques during the
rabbit boom in Wilcannia (N.S.W.) about 1887
are greatly exaggerated. I lived there—in fact, I
caught the pioneer rabbit on the south bank of
the Darling in 1882, and acquainted the local
newspaper of the fact, but did not get the fame I
deserved, the editor being afraid of injuring the
town’s reputation. The rabbit invasion certainly
caused a lot of money to circulate, but if any rab-
bi ter or any other person spent £5 in painting the
public-house of a sunset hue, it was always mag-
nified to £lo—perhaps £5O. Trappers did not
stay out long enough to earn big cheques—their
thirst was too great. Of course there were
isolated instances. I knew one man who made
£l2O in six weeks, but he got in early on a good
patch, where the bunny crop was "thick, and
received fid. per scalp. He spent none of his
cheque on chanipagne ; beer was good enough for
him, and he didn t beer much either. There was
far more money spent before the rabbit invasion
than after it.
‘ ‘ Hamer ” : He the Maori about whom
Bulletin correspondents differ. He
is a child in disposition, and so
essentially a creature of en-
vironment—also he is indo-
lent, bragful, and rstenta-
tious. In the d.stricts
where he ean get drink—
the Wairarapa, ’instance
—he gets drunk, and is a
very deteriorated child,
dirty and disagreeable.
In his native haunts,
left to himself, he exists
in a dirty, unhealthy
way that kills him off ;
he is an ostentatiously
good fellow, and too
iazy to clean his abode,
although he is fond of
his dip and not very ob-
jectionable personally.
In districts, such as that
round Gisborne, where,
there are intelligent
Maori Councils em-
powered to destroy in-
sanitary dwellings, to
insist on a fairly civi-
lised state of living, and
keep away the jug that
makes men see snakes
and howl, the Maori is a
very good specimen of Man. As
a side issue, the Maori oven
isn’t a bad cooking arrangement.
I have tasted food cooked in it
- —eels, pork, and native potatoes
all together—and where the eels
weren’t too much blended into
the pork, things might have beer-
worse. Maoris have caste dis
tinctions that are very simple.
They are divided into chiefs and
their relations, and the people
who are not chiefs or their rela-
tions. The distinctions are not
very strictly kept, but the chiefs
have certain dignities in the way
of feathers and carved green-
stone amulets that are now very
scarce and have always been very
valuable. A chiefs daughter to’d
me that at onetime a chief would
barter fifty subjects for one
greenstone ornament. She pro-
mised me one, but didn’t keep her pro-
mise. A Maori interpreter told me there would
have been trouble if she had.
Brisbane has now a genuine sundowner,
the real live article, hall-marked on every link.
He has camped upon a vacant piece of ground in
Boundary-street, in the heart of the city. The
fir it morning about 200 stopped and stared at the
wanderer, who was sleeping in. He usually sleeps
in. Each night lie rolls himself up in his blanket
and tent, and Brisbane finds him so when it is
going to work next day. The police have tried to
make him move on without avail. He warned
the force off in the sacred name of “Private
Property”, and “Private Property” being in
England, and his agent lost, stolen, or strayed, the
sundowner remains in possession. He is fast be-
coming one of the local institutions. Mothers
take their children for an outing to see him, just
as if he were a whole zoo. If he stays much
longer the Government will have to put' down a
light line of railway and run excursions to him.
AT THE SUBURBAN BOARDING-HOUSE.
MR. HASHEM: “It’s Fortesque, the actor chap
He’s escaping by the back window.”
MRS. HASHEM: “ And he hasn’t paid his board
for five weeks.”
MR. HASHEM: “I know! I know! For Heaven’s
sake don’t disturb him. He might change
his mind.”
“Jimmie Pannikin” : At present, owing
to seasonable rains, thousands of healthy young
desert peas are to be found on the green hills
round Broken Hill. For many years past none of
the peas growing wild have been allowed to seed,
so eagerly were the glorious blooms sought after ;
yet the present crop is peculiarly prolific. How
many years of Centralian baking can the seeds
endure before perishing ? By the way, good old
text books state that the pea will not bear trans-
planting. Hundreds are successfully transplanted
in Broken Hill, but few folk can grow the pea
from seed.
SLEEPING DOGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was in a small bush township at the “ Friendly Din«-o ”
pub.
That I found the old ex-burglar working “ rouseabout ”
for “ grub ”
I had known him long years previous—from a pressman’s
point of view—
And I recognised his face, although a bushy beard he
grew.
“I suppose it doesn’t matter now,” he stated, with
a sigh,
“I ’ave chucked the game for ever, and an ’onest bloke
I’ll die.
But it almost drives me frantic when I think ’ow I fell
in ;
And I prays the Lord to keep me from relapsin’ inter sin !
As ye know, boss, I was clever ; I wuz alius on the spot
When a decent job wuz tackled—l wuz ‘daddv’ of the
lot!
And the ‘Johns’ could never nail me—l’ad simply too
much brains.
But a bloomin’ dog destroyed me—there the dreadful fact
remains!
“ Of course I ain’t an artist, and I don’t rave over things,
Such as these ’ere marble statoos that they make of
queens and kings ;
I say let em ave their statoos—even M enus without
togs;
But what I ’ates are statoos representin’ bogus dogs.
“As yer know, in those toffs’ gardens they ’ave stone
dogs sittin round,
Some reclinin’ on the doorsteps, others squattin’ on the
ground :
And 111 tell yer boss, in secret, they ’ave give me many a
start.
Why, I know a cove they frightened so, it broke his
bloomin’ ’art.
I ad grown so wild ag'ainst ’em that I couldn’t pass ’em
by,
Without knockin’ off a tail end or disfigurin’ an eye !
It wuz all a crazy notion, but I couldn’t ’elp it, straight!
Ali ! we never sees our folly till the day it is too late!
SERGEANT MICHAEL FALLON , of N. S. W.
Irish Rifles —tragically shot at Randwick
Rifle Range.
“ 'Veil, one night I’d cleared the cupboard of old Bell, at
Darling- Point,
Ye knows the big-, white mansion—oh, it wuz a lovely
joint!
I would not ’ave took three ’undred fer the jewlerrv and
plate,
If you’d arsked me, ’ad you met me makin’ for the gardin
gate!
I ad safelj parsed the grass plots with me precious
lovely load, ' ’
And a cab with ‘Tiger’ Somerset wuz waitin’ on the
road ;
When I turns me ’ead, and d n me, if there underneath
a tree,
Wuzzn’t one of these dog ornaments a-starin’ straight at
me. °
“ I wuz safe away, I tell yer ; all wuz silence in the ’ouse,
I ’ad done the job so quiet that I didn’t scare a mouse ;
But me bitterness tow-ards bulldogs made me promptly
turn around, J
And I goes and kicks the statoo ; then me Waterloo I
found.
“ ’ Fore 1 kn ew w here I wuz livin’, up that stattoo sprung
at me, a
And it grabbed me by the collar where it ’ung tena-
ciously ;
And it raised wild ’owls of warnin’. Well, a bloke ’arf
dead with fright,
With a bulldog ’angin’ to ’im, cannot allers think wot’s
right.
“ If rd onl y ’ ad the savvy, I’d ’ave run with dog and all,
And, once aboard the ’ansom, we’d ’ave given bull a fall;
But, like a blessed eejut, I fought ’im like a toff,
And the row so frightened ‘ Tiger ’ that the d—d cur
galloped off!
* Then a blow behind the ear-hole sent me dotty to the
ground,
And I sees full ’arf-a-dozen blokes in night-shirts standin’
round—
Well, it’s no use spinnfn’out a yarn, I’m not a bloomino-
bard,
But the Judge sez, ‘First offence, I see’—and gev me
four years ’ard ! ”
N.S.W.
WALTER J. HEGAETY.


What Fertilizers are to
the soil, strengthening the
crop, doubling the harvest
Cerebos salt
is to the food, fortifying
the human body and
vitalizing the brain.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
It’s pood for the Batcher, the Baker, tiie Brewer,
The Carpenter, Bricklayer. Blacksmith, and bhoer,
The Mistress, the Servant, the maiden demure,
The Toiler, the Clerk, the disconsolate Wooer.
It’s pood for the Wealthy,- it’s good for the I oor,
Of the system cold-stricken a perfect renewer.
When the air of Australia is cold and impure #
It’s infallible— Woods’ Cheat Peppermint Cure.
EXQUISITE
DIAMOND
JEWELLERY
WE EXCEL IN. The latest every mail.
Our London office sends us all the new
designs.
Then we make them up in our own
Hunter-street workshops.
Make them with a perfect finish.
We carry an immense stock of loose
jewels of all kinds.
Thus we produce the most exquisite
jewellery at the lowest possible cost,
and we sell at London Prices.
Special Diamonds, £22 10s.
Choice Pearls, £4 4s.
B
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,'
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sidney,
23 Hunter Street,
“ Mars ” : There must be some kind of
freemasonry amongst Hindu hawkers.
Here and there exist cockies who are ue-
nighted enough to harbor such vermin,
and when any hawker new to that
road comes along he never fails
to make straight for such a
haven. Being a white Aus-
tralian myself I never buy
from Hindus, and they, do
not trouble me ; but one ■
day, tempted by being ab-
solutely out of soap, I
fell. After that every
hawker who passed that
way called, and forcible
measures were needed for
several weeks to restore
my old state of immunity.
GOOD INTEN-
TIONS.
THE DOG'S OWNER
( reassuringly):
“It’s all right,
Mister; it’s only
his play; he
don’t mean no
harm.”
“ Aquila ” : An account appeared in print
a few days ago of a pair of eagles [aquila audax)
attacking a woman and child near Menno (Vic. .
This eagle is well-named, and cases like this are
not so very uncommon. I, when a child, was sent
up a spur of the Pyrenees, near Ararat, with my
sister, after goats (we .were eight and ten years
old). On our return trip, an eagle attacked us. i
had a long stick, and made desperate slashes at
the bird, and both, myself and my sister howled
vigorously for help. Fortunately we got into the
shelter of some thick undergrowth. With the
spread of settlement the eagle disappears, but he
is still plentiful enough all oyer Victoria. He is
a fine, noble bird, but one is apt to forget this
when attacked. At any rate, it is not the best
time to admire his marvellously muscular build,
his powerful beak, and Ins strong, sinewy toes
and claws.
He * * *
“ Namoi ” : The glib-tongued persuader
who meanders round the West soliciting orders
from drought-beaten cookies for choice fruit-bear-
ing plants, &c„ will soon have to transpire in ft
suit of armor. The wily • free selector is find-
ing him out in so many tricks. Iwo or three
years ago an alleged “agent ” for a large Sydney
nursery “did” a certain back-o -beyond district
with marked success. The trees arrived all right
and now there are several fine orchards of wild
cherry trees in that neighborhood !
* * . * *
“Trony’’sends a nine-page par., out of
which rye sift the following
If chocks cat salt meat uncooked they die of. burst if
they don’t get water ; if they get water they die ot drink;
To cure a jibbing horse, get him on the steep bank of a
water-hole, and when he tries to back lie will hack into
the water, and, not being fond of that sort of bath, wi
t! 'somesi eeper-nhopp ers in Queensland. put their sons to
work on the sleepers while they are yet almost babies,
and don’t gite them a fair chance of schooling. One par-
ticularly mean made Ws infant cut Ins teeth by
o-nawing through sleeper-logs. .
B As to eating native animals—the crow, when he has
fattened on your corn, is good eating ; so is the bandi-
coot scalded, then roasted, and then eaten cold. It is
not a success if you eat it cold first, and then scald and
r °Bullock-drivers don’t drive their teams in the rain, or
the bullocks would get scald necks and have to go on the
unemployed list. _ , ( , ~ „
There’s more general information m 1 rony s
epistle, but that is enough for one week.
‘‘ Dandalup ” : “ Belah ’ ’ (B. 13/7/’O5)
paints the Westralian nigger much bladmr than
he is and as to politeness, Belah, having been
a number of years amongst the blacks, must know
that different tribes have different ways. Some
are full of cunning and treachery, while others
are Quite harmless. Out prospecting once we
struck an aboriginal wlio was tlie soul of polite-
S’ and could speak three European languages
He was a wild, hairy-looking individual, and
when we asked him the way to a certain place,
he replied in very good French, ihen he jab-
bered some German, and finally condescended to
speak English. Turned out when a boy he had lived
in Perth with an old lady, who taught him the
lingos. But he could not resist.the longing to get
back to his natural state, and now he was dirty
and happy in all these languages.
“ Gaberlunsrie ” : It is nigh time the bush
was stripped of some of its romantic superstitions.
To begin with the manly bushman : he does not
earn enough money and being out of work is too
big a Son of his calling, and he has to say
“ Any chance of a job, sir? ’’just abit too.oftento
retain any ordinary degree of “ anh ness bummed
up, he is a tramp for casual labor. Destitution's
netting well marked among the aged toilers. Iht
pastoralist has no use for them, for the cream of
Australian young manhood chase him around to
a S m lirge numbers-yes, for a career in which
they learn nothing. Truly there will soon be an
irniy of half-starved obsequious buslimen if no
market for skilled and intelligent labor opens out
in the Commonwealth. * #
“ Rav X.” : Be aboriginal head and other
b as hino- I have tried hard to find something to
admire'in the Centralian blacks, but hitherto
have only discovered a Spartan-like indifference
to pain, which, after all, is probably ab-
sence of feeling. One day at Alice
Springs arrived a nigger from somewhere
lower down the telegraph line. He came
in answer to some sort of pressure which
the blacks are able to bring to bear in
such cases —to settle a matrimonial or
racial squabble, probably the latter.
Several hundred blacks were collected
near the telegraph station. -twenty
separated themselves, and standing our
nigger, armed only with a shield, m front
of them at a distance of 30 paces, pro-
ceeded to throw spears at lnm, each in
his turn. Our friend, with the aid of Ins
shield, juggled with them like Cmque-
valli, dodging all bar the last, which
went through his leg. 1 hen followed
10 minutes’ palaver, after which our mg.
again stood forth and stiffened his back,
stooping slightly forward, and each of the
20 who had thrown spears came up singly,
and made a deep cut in his back with a
stone knife. Before the twentieth had
finished he looked like a walking
slaugliter-yard. One of the operators
who had just come up turned away to
be ill, while Mr. Bradshaw, Telegraph
Master and Protector of Aborigines, told
them through “Old King Charlie that
if thev didn’t stop he “bin git it no
more tucker.” After some yabber, during
which the gins playfully thumped each
other on the head with yam sticks, the
blows sounding like the crack of doom, a
final agreement was come to. Kach one
who had cut our friend picked up a hand-
ful of dirt and rubbed it into the wounds,
after which the nig., having pulled some
spear out of his leg, stalked away to the
westward. Mr. Bradshaw related a case
in which a native had come into the
station with a broken arm, .which had
mortified. It presented a sight which
would have brought a tear to the eye of
Cleopatra’s needle. Nothing remained but
«mnotation. They, therefore, ground up some
butchers’ knives—none other being available
and, with no previous surgical kno^
it off. The patient didn’t even wink, and after
the arm had been bound up, insisted on leaving
for his camp, some 50 miles distant.
An Argus correspondent says that the
plague of mice round Warracknabeal (Vic.), wneie
the wheat grows, is so bad that storekeepers have
had to put butter, cheese, flour, etc., in mice-proof
tins, and now find the rodents chewing their
tobacco. The beasties will presently be leaning
against the door-posts, expeptoratmg, and saying
“ blanky.”. # * *
“Ne’er-do-well”: Mackay man(B. 13/7/’O5)
is quite right as to the Chow wages man m the
cane fields. Slow is no word, for him. He is
absolutely dead. I saw shiploads of Chow im-
ported into Jamaica in the early 80 s. 1 hey usee
to turn out in the fields with a hoe in one hand
and a fan or parasol in the other, llien when the
sugar men grew tired and replaced them wit
coolies, the Chows set to work on their own and
grafted. It didn’t take them long to put money
by then.
* *
“Talk about thieves,” said the timber-
cutter, “yer can’t beat the blokes round ere.
They’d shake anything. When I first started
cutting they used to snavel my logs every night.
Oh, they were ’ot 1 One night me and my brother
Bill tried to catch ’em, and sat with a gun on each
end of the log. We watchedl until about! 2in the
mornin’, when Bill said, “I’m dead cold; I
have a nip.’’ He had a nip out of a flask, and
then fell asleep. I had no one to talk to and oft
I went to sleep too. I woke at daylight, and
there was Bill and me sitting on the bark. .While
we was snoring the blokes had sliov ed the 1( g
*
“PDF”’ Be finding of bees’ nests
(‘‘ Orthos,” B. 13/7/’O5). In ’9B I knew a man at
Archer field, near Brisbane, to successfully fine a
bee to its nest. He caught the bee at sunset; put
it into a tumbler with cream and sugar, and
covered it with perforated cardboard. He placed
a stake in the ground, and next morning, after
studying the temper of the bee, lie stood by the
stake and let it out. The bee flew straight up-
wards and then in the direction of its nest. Imme-
diately under the bee line, about twenty yarcs
from the stake, he placed a second stake, llalt-
way between the two he then placed a third, so
that all three were in a straight line. He th< n
shifted trie back stake to the'front, and continued
s i doing, keeping all three in a straight line unti,
after travelling a quarter of a mde, he found he
front stake a few feet to the right of the tree
containing the bees’ nest. A straighter line than
a bee’s couldn’t be made by a surveyor with the
use of his theodolite. [The Bulletin wonders if
a miserable old nest wasworth the troubJe.J
“X.”: Be bif Australian snakes. Leopold
F Sachs, formerly of Hermit Park, Townsville,
now of London, had in his possession the skin ot a
carpet snake over 23ft. long, shot somewhere m
tlie Far North.
.* * * *
“ H.J.L.” : Following is the Malay method
of catching the “tortoise-shell” (hawksbill) turtle
in Torres Straits. A lady-turtle is first caught
(during the breeding-season) and made fast by a
chain rove through the tail-plates and secured to a
stone or an anchor on a reef. Ihe Malays then
steal up in small craft, at high water, and spear
the gentleman-turtles, attracted by the lady s
frantic endeavors to slip her cable. [To which a
Bulletin man who has boon there: As tar b
my experience goes, you might as well try to spear
a brick wall as a swimming hawksbill. J
MISS IRENE DILLON, (he Melbourne damsel
who lately appeared as “ The French Maid
Photo, for The Bulletin by Inez and Nina Hocks, The
Block , Melbourne .
At Eulo (West Queensland) they vary it a
little The M.C. at the local “clarnce is a lady
who weighs about l«st. and rules the floor with a
rod of iron.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) wdl be taken of
communications insufliciently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, lohethm
sent by post or handed in ; and no i 101
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
P O’C. : Ireland has had no form of self-govern-
ment (except in the municipal sense) since 1801 and
unless the rule of a Parliament which consisted laigely of
the King’s nominees, supposed to represent more or less
imaginary boroughs, was self-government, it hadn t it
even before 1801. And it has very little real municipal
government even now, many towns being iu e< JJ
missioners.”... .Loch Gilvine : “ The Touch ’ w of an
artificial melancholy—the kind you buy at the raise
shop and pour over your poem. And why ‘ besi
mv ham ” ? Why not bound in the vicinity of >Ol
point not at all certain... Meunesse.
K K K : “<*toty” would make anyone feel sad.
jLL • Belated, and not much good anyhow...^.Mary ß..
ture "‘but TIo “itwdl jurtCvelo go° P on echoing....
to go and spring somewhere else.... “Shady
toed wry® “S.
f nd «hot • Boyhood» declined... .Maxim :
“° Chums ” declined, yet might be a great deal worse....
Norman Well written, but has no distinct point .
E.H.G.: Sorry your style hasn’t mmement
tivate terseness and vigor. • • • C T u nr .wiaAv* Crude'and m-
T °t o stir gh TTV- S yom Ve bV S 't p“n is to study what does
tlste. But it must have go ”m: it.• • W. wm
returned
a show.. ..C. Sha true ‘ but too narrow of
trifling.... h- J - S -.\ ° t lement ” is lifeless and awkward
interest j. ; •'» •, . j- one quite bad, but none quite
ln M e J' '' WH H Hopelessly out of our line... -Helen
suitable,... W.H.H...«opeie J Rather slow and
u • : have been much better handled
eaV J.H.L. : The mechanical jig-jog would Lave spoi t i
h> | ; V^ d CaSe She to:'Touch U notfinn enough . °. Andy B. :
Correct 'but cold and wnventianat
specify date.. ;;“ a^m ;St ry "'is very patriotic,
land agent with.
Raumanga: We hardly agree with you on the land
.. . Raumanga . . say nothing original—
Ve, ' y m ‘t" ”S?? u B : “ Apostolate ” (meaning proba-
has nothing in it but“ atmosphere .
SS W : Painfully inaccurate... .R. O’D. : batire not tren-
r-hVnt enough .Androeles: Destroyed accordingly....
scribble has no “ earthly. . . • J- u -’f'barren record of
</* T- '• Ah L *»” is iS below
U ' ; ]al ,n a Vic. Will inquire about ot { ler -■ •-f akeha ' olle
stanza, just to show what verse shouldn the.
He had one little daughter, an arrogant girl,
whose knowledge was much like his own
At people less wealthy, she d endeavour to hull
epithets vulgar, in an insolent tone.
Nobby : Wooden-legged metre . . .S.O.S. : Quite
" "/L, oaf interest J.T. : BULLETIN 20/l/05 A.I.H. .
m' TiiF Bulletin quoted all that was sent to it
r-H iIS A has no real Freetrade party; the Democrats
i n’t'iiPli'pvp in such high Protection as the Republicans,
<l( ’ l that is all The Democrats haven’t been 111 power
for three Administrations. (3) All who are diseased of
k 1 mnvil character or likely to become a buiden on the
bad morel rom Governme „t Printer,
Svdne/ R.D : None suitable.. ..A.M.H : Don’t know
*• wmildn’t encourage any fool to tattoo
and anyhow i ouldn t though we
haveWt niet that stanza in Lawson’s verse. Of late
he has been publishing an occasional bit of verse in other
lie nas oeen p * „ is a native of Australia
is"not any reason for Australia to he at all
ashamed of the convict strain 111 its ancestry. That strain
small and in the main, not criminal, the lags
beTn<> in very many cases offenders against the game laws
Chartists! /cotch'discontenteds or ; «Ms-aU real
ssf «f %rws. ‘sstt&St w*
T°r '••Certainly And if Britain were in the habit of say-
K' l See is itie, good pie the^oreyny
lines.
bail ftot'mough* po°int; “her 'may slip through.
Phoenix •“ Murder and Blood Money ” of no value....
RH A® Song about “birds in the trees” very conven-
er , ■ 'Kmv ikws UP a tree would be new and fresh. ..
tional. >ow ( o P careless lot. Will consider
Hamer: Last batch a verj caieiess ivu. R ..
it iq.i pn ” Nothing else has a chance.... E....
’ , i tuu E A.B. : “Marriage Tie too unplea-
Sfsuggestive.'.'.'. .Unsuitable : T D.W., Colymayne.
Unsuitable”: H.V.A., Junius, Oban, Maxim, J.S.T.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
Charon • Veryirudimentary Jore : A hatch of lifeless
honms . .W.A.: “Hot Dream” arrived in a very cold
kov : “ Push Society ” not strong.... A- E. Mac
*Tnlkative Drunk” is a badly drawn drunk saying
Talkative into jQhn F £ . .< Bloomer ” jest very
nothing of mtci -j,." Door „ wou i dn ’t reproduce. ..
h! Clay : None of them show much promise.. j
“ Chivalrv” 'very labored work... .H.B.L. . halted
Truth ” is a very meagre joke.
Hearts of Oak, at the Gap endeavouring,
Eawer. From Dunbar Fate, delivering.
ItaTse endeavour, to higher pinnacle ;
Organised. Abaft the binnacle.


w &ch rnjkr (W/mK <r^rs;y i
I*nb(i|je <n P'ooci w! »cW pies
s« jV to «//,!*« t. r > : * '.
'jfasfa"** f s A^i , r? Couhfay AI /sfaAliA
isn't' piebald Ix-'YJon't Ist. hiM
on n'S -SUfA*- ‘ ’
jetotjcJ is led/itfp be c^e
Ije Cou.ldht' gefa fand CrjowoT bcc ai/yg
of
irjv>y Acres As be. in l^OhJon..
SlrrjJ>ly CouMi^ - QeT'e*jodeh
1o 6dl~ in itje CO unfry beetle.
tf)e fayrfy . " '
"s'*>£s_ i*i * P-—, Covnhyjlris go, n o l[waXr
h's gold To enjoy wWe Hj e re no
Labour Y\rTj
Soy ’ Sir,
li oo Hisfar f
Plecds il}A' is hrjy r?Aroe my toy
!]oy . Well I— does 00 Know wijere *1
fao r:y&,i>3 gees "felfjj S fyoney I
> /\ fesrry faced Comely l%'njo
is WvJse slje cvfa gc-Ta, - ,
i*<W oj- [Abour farry--. _ by -flje bye, Bleedsy!
Wof d/e. yo« yourjelP ' J
offers &ty&(*f fa
ofP Wife becVs e
°J "iH uioi/r J "
Thoie w fjo leave SO*»jaljovv
itVtChd ~fc, Co*yjQ +© if .
wll ° o
L ? u ' TO. grew ov<f r. "
h '' Ivi §«i fcjcx/„
fKnoifar 'ttjfaKi, ij- ca,n
v ( w before "tlje
wayi'Anty out", Ije rii'igl>H&,aJCe. A /
stvt in lik
~lb<2 A,ost?^li^ ns | rx*z~t^
>"' of breed i»o fa> wljitij -jr,
CAiAdUn Wf*,J _
% | <2k d hafa rally
"Teri-ified v*ail of busH
' 0 Lord ! wl,*r we dp ? ere’s ovr
Bill Coro*. Agin J*’
“AUSTRALIAN THINGS ABROAD.”
Being the title of two columns in the “Argus,” by Rev. Bleeds Fltchett. consisting of stories, all running down Australia, that he says be
as collected from his fellow-passengers on his trip to England.


fftfi <Z. /j <y
fte <ft/y}oy ftfta./- Our ft 07/c.e ct s <x. v^ 1
ftoc/y- <Tre ft o ft<*S i
y Successftu7 clj ft'ft - q?J)
” <2ci.roft er S fiy
tc
WPiltf-y hjttyodi oj.
Warfare iytUdity fye
oj' njtitjyfo
burry 1)1}
-~~L° ar6it'ra.f l p i9 jp^^^£ m l 2_ C '~ re ' Xc(i '' SK-^u-u
Republic .
Thai* both
Wot D K y
1,
J
m MfS \
fpdf; v s)
1 1 S fl
<gT hfty TTT^Ay
CZoMC-E R A/
/fa ljir- otffrrr
fatt/ &60
y) /ft&&//tc/ Zfp jPjtfh'cs
a elojptf Sea ?
JVOuZd fi/~ tvrfrrp
farfs . "
We Cy ar - //'y
fa/'#'*?
1 fam&fe 0/
C/oseaf ea rt
\ ctfijvn -
\j64fistyt
'Walf/c fc£e
fogr?
cfausdn? tyy
TTj/zre-cfauSiU'y
ctfrpese &oy co/fjtf
~ < s,
srff'r rfr sz»e SKpyfrU <*/ Sa.?e/y /s*/£.,?
/f/rttry 'S~/ocu/rpJ ctrr/yej /v/rfy &rjo oJ- "//nheoC
,#c ) s Jf* C'AotV /rvia/yc
Ctfcffy ?yur/pitrs '?]o Settle e "
MOSTLY FOREIGN.


A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s DRESSING ROLL, fitted every convenience
Solid Tan Leather, 355. Other Styles, 10s Cd, 12s Gd
15s, 17s Gd, 20s, 255, 30s, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Eight-Day Oak CABINET CLOCK.
Eirst-Class Striking Movement, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s Cd, 15s 9d,
17s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Four-Bottle EGG CRUET
and SPOONS.
Pure Silver-Plated, 255.
Other Styles, 20s, 21s, 30s, 355,
405..
m
r Hjcihr« >••*»:=
IH
foasN
Awi
'4'i
; ■,**>.*>«>:.
8 .-•■
ii
A. SAUNDERS.
Set of CARVERS, Best Sheffield Silver Steal, Secure Handles
(Silver Ferules), in Silk-Lined Case, 255.
Other Styles, 12s Cd, 15s, 20s, 27s Gd, Si’s, Sss, 40s, EOs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cabinet PHOTO FRAME,
Pure Silver-Mounted, 4s Gd
Other Styles, 7s Gd, 10s Gd,
12s Gd, 15s.
Fair Prices
in a great
many places,
means inferior
quality
Here it means
careful
thought and
attention,
right buying and
perfect
satisfaction.
This
establishment is
pre-eminent
for the reliable
quality of its
goods.
SAUNDERS
Wa
&
r-
Jj
</../■
n
A. SAUNDERS.
Genuine Art Carlton China CHEESE DISH, Beauti-
fully Hand-painted Floral Design, 11 x 8,15 s Gd.
Similar Styles, Size 11 x 8,12 s Gd.
By Mail.
With the aid of
our Handsomely
Illustrated
Catalogue
you can buy
in your own
home,
with as 1 much
satisfaction as
though 'you
were
here in person.
A request will
bring you our
Catalogue to
y-our address,
Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak SMOKERS’ CABINET,
Pure Silver-Plated Mounts,
Roller Top, £2.
Other Styles, 30s, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cherub Silver-Backed
MIRROR, 20s.
Other Styles, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doe Skin TOBACCO POUCH,
Pure Silver Shield,
Best Rubber Lining, 4s Cd.
Other Stvles, 5s Gd, Gs 6d,
7s 6d, 10s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Military
HAIR BRUS'T
Long Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s Gd, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.-
Eight-Day Marblette STRIKING CLOCK, Strikes
Accurate Timekeeper, Handsome Case.
Other Styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 32s 6d, 355,
Hours and Halves,
, 40s.' '
40s, 455, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Leather Wallet
POCKET BOOK,
Fitted with every convenience, 5s 6(1.
Other Styles, 7s Cd, 10s (id, 12s 6d,
15s, £os.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special "Value CLOTH or
HAT BRUSH,
Pure Silver-Mounted,
Extra Long Bristles, 53 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH,
Pure Silver-Mounted,
Extra Long Bristles, 20s
Others, 10s tid, 12s 6d,
15s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak SUGAR BASIN,
China Lined,
Pure Silver-Plated, 15s 6d
Other Styles, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
Amber-Tinted Glass, 17s fid.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s fid, 12s fid,
15s fid, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Polished Crocodile LEATHER PURSES,
Heavy Pure Silver Mounts and Lock, 15s 6d. Other
Styles 4s 6d, 5s Gd, 6s 6d, 7s. 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s Cd,
17s Gd. Gold Mounted, 30s, 355, 37s 6d,' 40s, 455, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
MONEY JAR,
Pure Silver-Plated on
Nickel Silver, Cut Glass, 255.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 15s,
30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD or OPERA GLASSES,
Very Powerful,
Case and Sling, £2.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s,
255; 30s.
A. SAUNDERS. -
CIGARETTE CASE,
Crocodile Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts, £0s.
Other Styles, 3s 6d, 5s 6d,
8s 6d, 10s fid. 12s 6d. -
y
A. SAUNDERS.
CUCKOO CLOCK,
Strikes Hours and Halves,
Light or Dark Case, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver,
Handsomely Embossed, £2. - Other Styles, 20s, 2os,
30s, 355, 40s.
88
MSB!
isiiSil
m
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-Plated can
be used as. a Waiter, £2 10s. Other Styles 21s’ ?is
30s, 355, 40s. '“ ’ ’
First-Class Gilt
BEDROOM CLOCK,
on Onyx Base, £‘2.
Other Styles, 12s (id, 15s,
20s, 255.
BUTTER BISII, KNIFE and
TOAST RACK COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-Plated, 2Cs.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 255.
if®
: pan
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent's TRAVELLING COMPANION,
Hair Brush, Mirror, and Comb, Ids 6d.
Other Styles, I2s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
T:
m
Wm
mmmm
V'
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-Mounted Seymour System French BRIAR
PIPE, in Case, 7s Gd. Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s
6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SA( 'XDEKS.
Olass FLOWER YAMv
Pure Silver-Mounted,
Is 6d each.
Others, 2s, 2s Gd,
(Postage Extra.)
A. SAUNDE
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER, SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Opposite
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


-
m
■
i«j
:
IS
'• :
fcfti
m.
W-~ ' -
38S
95
.j
*V. . -•?•'! C
\
WOOL.
m,
You can order any of
Our Tweed from your
Tailor, send to him
for Pattern Card.
m K.
a y
- "V
1
m
*
* 4
These are Actual Photographs of Costumes made by -
SJffiVYWVRD, Merchant Tailor, 407 6eoise St. Sydney.
from Marrickvillc TWceds, write for Pajlcrns ® fasKton Book.
THE SMART AUSTRALIAN GIRL WEARS MARRfCKVILLE TWEED,
THE MAN WHO WOULD PLEASE HER MUST FOLLOW HER LEAD.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
AV ALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DAVID STOKER & SONS’ lnT l ce colora-: LACK, REP and BLUE.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the ONLY Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking OR
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
The sorry dyspeptic, submerged in his gloom,
Who feels most dejected and fife for his tomb ;
The poor hypochondriac who wanders in woe,
With no one to speak to, and nowhere to go,
Whom no consolation nor comfort can please,
Who maintains he’s a martyr to every disease,
Let them aid their digestion and keep their blood pure,
And recruit upon Wo ids’ Great Pkitermixt Cure.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, 10/ and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89 C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
m
GS-O TO 3E3C3ES3L.X*—
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if
you want real good stamps, send to
FREP. HA6EH,
■FOREIGN stamp importer,
74 Elizabeth St., SYDNEY.
i, i ... 9
Austra ian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis-
POLITICAL
POINTS
Wesfcralian Labor Congress accepted pretty
well as it stood the tentative general platform sub-
mitted to it, but stuck at the State lotteries plank,
and finally ruled it out.
Queensland immigration is at last going
ahead under the stimulus of a semi-Labor
Government. Last half-year the State gained
1000 by excess of arrivals over departures.
Before even the formal del /;e on the new
Australian Government's policy was over, Reid
was clamoring in the Foreign-tv. i'.e press to know
why Denikin had not settled the capital site
question, the Redistribution of Seats Bill, and
the Tariff Commission report.
The Commonwealth has promptly dis-
covered that there a Labor Cabinet in South
Australia, ft is possible now to get civil replies
from Adelaide on Australian matters. Jenkins
always replied as if the Commonwealth had been
asking for a free ticket to his circus.
This is the very moderate platform
adopted by the Queensland Sugar Workers’
Union :
Equitable wage in all branches of the industry ; only
white labor to be employed in milk, also, when available
and efficient, in the fields ; shorter working days ; a daily
and weekly wage in place of the pres nt contract system";
shearers’ system of dieting where practicable; better
accommodation.
THE HINDRANCE.
DEAKIN: “ You'd better yet out of the road before
Australia comes along with a gun!"
REID: “I don’t care! I'll obstruct the business
of the country with mg last breath!”
This was mentioned in the daily papers
last week :—-
The Federal Government is to be asked to consider the
question of obtaining- an obsolete man-of-war for the pur-
poses of a training ship.
Which is a good way to train up an obsolete crew.
Why should Australia always aim at being oh-
solete ?
Remark by an Age correspondent:—
If Australians think that the few hundreds of first-class
shots Australia boasts, with their verniers, black pencils,
binoculars, rest forks, blow throughs, orthoptics, Chinese
white and camel hair brushes, are going to be any bul-
wark, then Australians are living in a fool’s paradise. The
club system has produced some hundreds .of shots whose
accuracy under certain fixed conditions-is phenomenal.
What we want is half a million men, not one of whom
could miss a six-feet target at any ordinary range.
The Trade Marks Bill, which the House
of Reps, has on hand, contains provisions by
which trade unions may register marks to distin-
guish goods, the product of the labor of their
members. One of the healthiest and strongest of
influences against “sweating” is an educated
public opinion, and in no better way can the
public be guided to purchase fair-labor goods than
by the use of trade-union labels.
The High Commissioner Bill is now before
the Federal Parliament. Senator Higgs fore-
shadows an amendment providing for the appoint-
ment of the Commissioner by a joint vote of the
two Houses. If that idea is not adopted, the
appointment will probably not be made until the
House rises. Those mentioned most prominently
for the post are B. R. Wise, G. H. Reid, George
Turner, John Forrest, and Langdon Bonython.
Premier Carruthers’ proposal that, instead
of reforming the N.S.W. Lands Department him-
self, it should be handed over for reformation
purposes to Commissioners for a period of two
years, suggests that J. Carruthers has very great
doubts of his own ability as a reformer. Anyhow,
the head of a Reform Ministry has come up
against a question of Reform, and he has decided
tlmt his Reform Ministry isn’t equal to the Reform
job.
The opening ceremony of Banana land’s
Parliament saw the Philp-Leahy Opposition a
frozen-looking crowd of nine. The Ministerial
benches were so packed that there was little
room left for any more recruits. From appear-
ances the Ministry, on its present democratic
platform, will get through the session without
difficulty.
When is Premier Carruthers, of N.S.
Willis, going to reveal these things which he
darkly intimates he has discovered about Lyne in
the matter of the arrangements re the Governor-
General's residence ? Sydney Telegraph observed
gloomily quite a while ago that the papers had
been found mysteriously, and when the revelation
burst it would “bring matters to a head.” When
is it going to burst ?
The Secret Commissions Bill now before
the Australian Parliament is a drastic measure. To
offer to an agent, or accept as an agent, a secret
gift, rebate, or commission, or to render a false
account with a view to allowing - a secret commis-
sion, is made an offence. Penalty £5OO or two
years’ gaol. In civil or criminal proceedings
witnesses may be compelled to answer questions
and produce documents even though tile effect of
such is incriminatory under the Act, and it will
be no defence to allege a “ trade custom.”
The motion of Toutcher, M.L.A., to abol-
ish imported State Governors, was defeated
in Vic. Assembly by . 2fi votes to 21. It
would have been carried but for the defection of
the shifty Peacock and alleged Liberals like
Keast, Hunt, and the turncoat Gaunson. Bent,
Irvine, and M'Cutcheon talked a great deal about
“ disloyalty ” and “silken bonds,” and the like;
but if dispensing with an imported State Gover
nor is disloyalty, it is surely about time the
British navy bombarded Canada and brought that
country to its senses. Canada has been doing
this kind of disloyalty ever since it first federated.
Only a few days after Premier Bent intro-
duced his Secret Commissions Bill in the Victorian
Assembly, Attorney-General Isaacs followed in
the Australian Parliament with his Bill on almost
exactlj r similar lines, save that it only applies to
transactions between parties when both are not
residents of the same State. The blastiferous
doctrine of State Rights prevents the Aus-
tralian 'Parliament doing the whole busi-
ness, yet it is just as capable of legislating
between two Victorians as between a Vic-
torian and a Waler. There is much work
waiting to be done, and there is no time
for this foolish system of doing one job twice
over in fact, before secret commissions are
abolished all over Australia it will be a case of
doing the job seven times over.
A military genius who drags a long dis-
arrangement of the alpha/bet behind his name
looks on tlje renewal arid expansion
of the alliance between Britain
and Japan as the greatest
blessing that can come to
Australia. “ ’Twill save
the Commonwealth,” he
exclaims. “ Britain
may want all her
ships in the Mediter-
ranean, on the Bay of
Biscay or the North
Sea Australian
squadron and
all ; and where
is our Common-
wealth then?
Where is Sydney ?
Where’s Melbourne ?
That’s where the little
Jap savior will come in. Togo
or Kamimura will lie off the coast and pro-
tect Australia till the glorious motherland gets
out of its difficulties.” Ye-e-s ! And isn’t there a
legend that Hengist and Horsa and their Saxons
lay off England and protected it some 1450 years
ago? And when they had done laying off, about
all that was left of the British people were living-
on crows and snowballs in the bleak Welsh hills.
It is so unusual to find Australian Chamber
of Commerce leaders taking a patriotic view of
the colored immigration question that the utter-
ance of President George Wall, at the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce, the other night, is re-
freshing
In considering this problem, we should strip ourselves,
if possible, for a time of our selfish commercial interests,
and weigh evidence before us with a judicial mind. ... It
has been suggested that colored aliens should he per-
mitted m tropical parts of the Commonwealth to do
black man’s work under certain restrictions, and we have
been assured that this would mean increased prosperity
to the country generally, and larger employment for
whites. The idea is to convert what is now an unoccu-
pied wilderness into a prosperous garden—teeming with
population and superabounding in wealth. But is there
not a reverse side to this glorious picture of happy homes
and pastoral contentment? Imagine within our bor-
ders hordes of Chinese, Javanese, Mala.vmen, .Japanese
and all the mongrel races that abound to the north.
Draw on your fancy for one moment and think of the
race mixtures and the race antagonism that would breed
among us. Then as to ourselves—we whites would have
to dominate these aliens or be squeezed out bv them.
Yet even to-day we are not sufficiently numerous to
properly garrison our vast continent. Already we have
heard of these aliens becoming masters, and whites their
servants. Then what of the color line of which we have
heard so much ? Who is to keep back the tide ; or if,
after a while we begin to find that in giving up portion of
our territory we have erred, what power will transport
this heterogeneous mass of humanity back to their own
countries? We should shudder at the very thought of
race admixture with ourselves, yet there are but two
alternatives, absorption or constant race antagonism ; the
latter to increase in bitterness as the aliens became more
numerous and consequently more powerful. There is
another point, and I sweef) away for the moment all
patriotic ideas, and get the subject down to the com-
mercial basis. These aliens are Useless to us. They are
not consumers worthy of the name, and what they do
consume they purchase front their compatriots. Take
the case of the Chinamen in our midst. They accumulate
and remit. They are not good citizens, are not capable
of ruling'them selves, are impossible defenders of the flag,
and are profitless, unprogressive—in a word, undesirable.’
STRIKE! BE A KIN, STRIKE!
And the people thirsted there for water... and did chide with Moses, and said, “ Give us
water that we map drink.” And Moses struck the rock, and water came out of it.
Dr. “Jimmy ” Graham is again before the
N.S. W. public in the role of Parliamentary candi-
date for everywhere and anywhere. He is being
boomed by the daily papers as just the man for
the Ash held vacancy.
Pensions in the upper grades are growing
unpopular. Wadded 'in N.S.W. Parliament
wants to abolish Judges’ retiring allowances, and
Watt in Vic. Parliament wants all recipients of
pensions from the State to resale within the State.
Watts idea would be retmnative justice upon
several haughty loafing absentees who live in
England and abuse the country which keeps them
in splendid pauperism.
It is up to the Australian Government to
take some strong measures about a matter recently
reported by Senator Millen. Coming from India,
Mr. Millen found the P. and O. boat on which he
sailed decorated with a notice to the effect that
passengers should hand over all their dutiable
goods before touching the first Australian- port,
and that to be found with even one cigar or cigar-
ette in their possession would be fegarded in this
oppressed and ill-governed country as evidence of
an attempt at smuggling and be heavily punish-
able. The notice practically represented the Aus-
tralian Government as an institution which cime
on board at the first port of call and stripped
every passenger for inspection. When the English-
man who lies about Australia is in his own country
he is naturally out of our reach ; but it should be
possible in some way to get at the English liar
who pastes his lie on our own coast, so to speak.
Touching the matter of closer settlement
in Victoria, and the policy of “ bursting up” big
estates with the mighty dollar, Thomas Bent
has been remarking
that innumerable
small selections are
now at the mercy of
the Government.
“A lot of people
have got little bits of
land without fulfill-
ing the conditions.”
IntheTolmie district
the selections are
large, and the selec-
tors doing nothing.
They have had the
gall to offer the
Government a resti-
tution of some of the
land, on. condition
that a railway is
built. It isn’t neces-
sary to travel away
from the old railway
tracks to see that the
bogus selector badly
needs to be evicted.
The lines run through
tn i 1 e s of country
which cry aloud for
prompt action by the
Lands Department.
Valuable selections
are allowed to remain
in the hands of men
and women who have forfeited their right
to keep them longer lying idle. Bent talks
largely of the land lie is repurchasing (at fancy
prices) for closer settlement, whilst the books of
the Department point to tens of thousands of
acres that might be resumed by the Government
without any expenditure whatever, simply because
the occupiers haven’t paid for it. Public land in
Victoria—and in Australia generally—seems to be
the only sort of property which a person can safely
acquire by false pretences, secure from the risk of
prosecution, but that is no reason why he shouldn’t
be compelled i&o return it to the lawful owner
when the fraud is proved.
Since the election, last year, 2Lput of-Ahe
75 members of the House of Representatives have
been Cabinet Ministers, and with the Speaker,
Chairman of Committees, and the Government
Whips added, over a third of the House has held
salaried positions.
About Law :
Justice Hodges, presiding in Melbourne Practice Court,
the other day, uttered a very positive snort against what
he was pleased to call an “unsatisfactory” decision by
the High Court in the case of Marshall v. Colonial Bank.
Having to deal with a similar case, he said he was bound
to be guided by the previous High Court judgment,
although he “had no doubt” it would be upset by the
Privy Council if an appeal were made. Justice Hodges
made further remarks to the effect that the conflict
between Australian High Court law and British Privy
C Kincil law was a painful thing for State Judges,
inasmuch as it sometimes depended on their judgment
whether the right man would have the power of appeal
to the Privy Council or the wrong man would
score by appealing to the High Court. Of course, the
notions as to right and wrong in such points of law as he
was thinking about are purely Hodgesian, and inasmuch
as it is a beloved legal axiom that “nobody knows the
law,” the alleged eccentricity of Australia’s supreme tri-
bunal can be merely eccentric from the point of view of
lawyers ywljo really don’t know. In its strictly legal
aspect the state of uncertainty which moves Hodges to
snort is somewhat deplorable, but his summing up of the
trouble “must appeal to the country’s common sense.
“The public,” he thinks, “ will find that it cannot be
satisfied with these alternative courts of appeal.” Of
that there can be no doubt. The more that High
Court law conflicts with Privy Council law the sooner
will Australia be content to cut off the foreign source of
appeal which is practically confined to the wealthiest
litigants. It may be a very fine source, abounding in im-
pressive sequences of judgments, but where is its right to
reverse High Court decisions if “ nobody knows the law”?
Every Court that can have its decisions reversed is bound
to have them reversed in some case. The Law is a flight
of steps, and on the top step a climbing litigant is sup-
posed to find justice. Australia’s top step at present is a
foreign piece of work—a relic of the pre-National period.
Remove it, and reduce the height and cost of the climb.
NOT ROOM FOR BOTH.
SHORTER: " The profesh in Australia's going to
the deuce, dear boy. Tm off to London.”
LONGER: “ Oh, come, dash it all, don't you goto
London, Clarence. Tm going to London.”
Few politicians have fallen in after a worse
fashion ttian Fisher, of Maoriland. He violently-
attacked the Government for paying certain sums
to Richard Heddon, junior, the Premier’s son, and
then he took another long look at the voucher and
discovered that ( the person who got the cash was
one Sneddon.*


fttvW’Ufc'
JUDGES
Have always given a Verdict
in FAVOR of
FILINGS
Pianos
m
EVERYONE KNOWS they are the BEST that Money can Buy.
When you can purchase Pianos by such well-known
manufacturers as STEIN WAY, RONISCH, LIPP, and
our incomparable “ VICTORS,” why waste time looking
at instruments of inferior make with no reputations?
&
#
OUR PIANOS ARE SOLD
ON EASY TERMS.
OLD PIANOS TAKEN IN EXCHANGE.
CATALOGUES FREE.
W. H. PALING & GO.
J
SYDNEY
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
istheacmeof comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
D« BAGSHAWS V
k VITAL FORCE:TABLETS a
m
THE BEST
NERVE
TONIC
\ IN THE
'/*
s&
EASY TO
CARRY
2/-
Per Box
EASY TO TAKE
oF 50TABLETS.
ATALLCHEMISTS.
OR POST PAID FROM
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG C 9 0? SYDNEY.
FREE TO LASSIES
This Valuable Little Book
How to Preserve
and Improve
THE COMPLEXION
THE HAIR
THE TEETH
THE EYES
THE FIGURE
&c., &c.
HEALTH HINTS
UP-TO-DATE
Physical Exercises
ILLUSTRATED
TOILET AND
BEAUTIFYING
PREPARATIONS
&c., &c.
We will post this Book without charge to any Lady who,
when applying for it, mentions this paper.
The Union Wlfg. & Agency Co, f
359 and 361 Collins St., Melbourne.
Mr. Watson
tr ,mmMmnaamßaaßammaaimmm
advocates a Socialism that
he thinks will be beneficial
to many. We advocate
the use of
Argus Sauce
because we know it will be
beneficial to all.
If you have not yet tried
Argus Sauce, send to us
for a Iree Sample.
BLOCC BROS.,
24=38 Spencer St., Melbourne.
m
AUSTRALIAN NATIVES’ ASSOCIATION.
Exhibition of Australian Manufactures and Products.
- -i . i i . Uvnallmimoa P.Vip
Opens DECEMBER, 1905, and continued daily till 10 p.m., for Four Weeks.
Australian Manufacturers, Australian Producers, NOTE-Spape for exlubits must be applied
particulars obtainable from the Organising Secretary, 134 PITT STKEEi, bxmNux.
Full
BUY A
Phonograph
BY MAIL!
It’s Easy—it’s Quick —it’s Safe.
We do a large Phonograph
Business by Mail. We send our
instruments all over Australia
records, too.
Osborn & Jerdan t Ltd*,
Importers of Phonographs
and Records .....
393 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
WRITE TOUR NAME HERE
AND POST TO US.
Send me your . Catalogue of
Phono /raphs and List of
Records.
Name .
Address
We Stock Every Known Make of Phonograph.
The Gem Phonograph
£2 10s.
DUNKLINC’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph
r
MELBOOWIE
G unmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia. 0
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOEftZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
C. STR ATM ANN’S *
FINE....
CHOCOLATES and
SWEETHEATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
Made on the
Premises


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to .£52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTb.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
, SisttiOOfiNK Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111’, William-street,
Albany Agents : If KNEW WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : iVIbLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
'Op 1 11{_, " “
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endownierns and Annuitiea with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
Tiie Hon. O. J, Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Harr. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident, Secretary : A. Rosa Miller.
A'ccttitittlatrd Funds, £2,920,210,
Policies issued 98,461- assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction aa to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses - eorritably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
gank,
Incorporated under the Companies' Act , 1863'.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 192 L
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,226 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 42,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land, Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors,—Jas, Munro, Esq,, Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Uallttfi, M.L.O, f John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq, ; F, Lord, Esq,
General manager,—W. V. RALSTON.
file |anl of north Queensland j
LIMITED.
Sydney Office i Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs, Burns, Philp &,Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £100,00(>
Uncalled . . 250,000
KeServed Fund .. 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock)— £370,000
The trustees, executors
AND . .
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne,
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000.0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £17,000 0 0
Directors: F. K. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BOIEROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
. . ■ ,
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,400,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,400,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaitrin, Kt., M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Wai.kkr.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie. Esq.
The Hon. Ciias. K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Auditors :
. Harrington Palmer, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New. Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India.
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the wo. Id.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
’ Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division of the
High Court of Justice made in the Matter of the
Estate of Edward John Ellerman deceased Hermitage v.
Ellerman 1902 E. 1156 the following enquiry is directed
that is to say (1) an enquiry whether Henry Ellerman one
of the residuary devisees and legatees under the Will of
the above named Edward John Ellerman deceased is living
or dead.
And if he be dead the following further enquiry is
directed that is to say (2) an enquiry when he died and
who are entitled and in what shares and proportions to
the real and personal estate devised and bequeathed to
the said Henry Ellerman by the Will of the said Edward
John Ellerman deceased.
Now the said Henry Ellerman and all persons claiming
under the second above mentioned enquiry are by their
Solicitors on or before the 30th day of November 1905 to
come in and prove their claims at the Chambers of Mr.
Justice Kekewich and Mr. Justice Joyce Royal Courts of
Justice England or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said order.
The Bth day of December 1905 at 12.30 of the clock in
the afternoon at Room 689 in the said Chambers is
appointed for hearing and adjudging upon claims.
Dated this 24th day of J une 1905.
W. O. HEWLETT
Master.
NOTE. —The said Henry Ellerman was a nephew of the
Testator Edward John Ellerman and son of Horatio Cock-
burn Ellerman Clerk in Holy Orders who emigrated to
Australia and travelled up country from Melbourne. It is
not known whether the said Henry Ellerman married and
had issue or left a Will.
ON THE HOP!
Just Published, A superb library volume, hand-
somely printed and bound ; containing upwards of
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s” best drawings. Full
“ Bulletin ” size. Price, 21s.
LIMITED.
Shipping.
3XT. D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly IVlail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports. ’
Steamer
Tons
Commander.
♦GNEISENAU .
•SEYDLITZ
KARLSRUHE
BARBAROSSA .
*SCHAENHOKST
SOSI E. Malchow ..
8000 0. Dewers
5057 R. Hempel ..
10915 Langreuter
8131 1 L. Maass
Sydney
1.30
p.m.
Ade-
laide
2 p.m
Aug. 19 Aug. 23
Sep. 16 ! Sep. 23
Oct. 11 Oct. 21
Nov. lliNov. 18
Dec. 9 Dec. 16
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Even-Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEIWAFI, 3300 tons.. 2nd SEPTEMBER.
*. RINZ SIGISMUHD, 3300 tons.. 30th SEPTEMBER.
*WILLEHAD. 4761 tons .. 28th OCTOBER.
'Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the A gen Is, '
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
m Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Produetr.
£apiilarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOUK AOKNTS.
The RatuU.
CRAIG & AITKEI'I, N.S. W. Barber’s Supplj
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, S/O.'IEY.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•Twin Screw.
FARRS:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s,. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c.\ on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
JDalyety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
m
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via OAPETOWN
aWd DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about
11th AUGUST,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC,
and SUE VIC to follow.
FAKES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23- 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
CTEE\2
O ° 353 3XT I O S.f3. 00,
andL
LIKTE.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.A/I.S. SIERRA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, AUGUST 21.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN ERANOISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
UCHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
THROUGH
— PICTURESQUE
—— ISLANDS.
'■
To Singapore, via the Dutch East Indies ! The sister ships
Airiie and Guthrie (2338 tons) leave Sydney alternately every
month on regular cruises through these tropical seas. " These
.. .. steamers are fitted with the latest electrical and cold storage
conveniences, thus ensuring tourists the utmost comfort
throughout the tour. The round trip occupies 52 days, and
costs £4O. For full information of the above, or shorter trips,
call or write to—
BURNS, PHiLP & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
| Banking, Public Companies, See.
jo - sGES'eio - UV ‘ noclji
Security.——
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
$
&
0*
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
Tin's Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
IKT-S.-W.
lout de pete Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. “
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £457, 53S 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 65,000 0 0
£698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, Creorge Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. • .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
total Capital .. . ... £2,000,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direobors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns’
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop Esq’
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide. W. N
M ‘Farlane ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
d. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write Jor Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
CANABIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
i September 4,
October 2,
October 30.
The Favorite Route to
Canada, United States,
and Great Britain.
The CHE APEST ROUTE to Canada, United
! States, and Great Britain.
!'
SIX PORTS OF CALL ON THE PACIFIC.
The great scenic beauties of the world, including
Niagara Falls, are on the “ALL RED” Route.
CIT WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
Illustrated Pamphlets furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z. LTD.
Managing- Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), The Three Donkies (a good joke), the Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character-
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, BYONEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Agents Wanted.
< Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR -MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PI RIE
And Gl/LH’ PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY, l
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Marloo, Friday, Aug. 11.
S.S. Allinga, August 18.
S.S. Yongala (from Mel-
bourne), August 23.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairn
S.S.lnnamincka, August 1
S.S. Marloo, August 19.
Tirst and Clt.rape.xt Honte to (iold/ieldn.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritim
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARK
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract withha
French Government,, calling at SIELUOUBNE, ADIS-
FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOSI BAY,SUEZ, an I
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, I nma, Cnina
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengersfor London and give them every assistance
in landing- and passing their luggage through the (Jus to mat
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Olficeau
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
K. RRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN"
. . BY TIIB . .
"E. and 24.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
Commander. ILeavTsydney.
W G. McArthur. . August 10
P. T. Helms ... 'September 13
Winthrop Ellis .. October 18
W. G. McArthur.. November 8
EVEnY CON V ENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE
r,.. e r.7?.. O< J",P ab,nB containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. 00. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
, ... 37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, arid Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
JSJEYVLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will he
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding: Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
THE (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
modern Appointments. moderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comtor and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, ‘l to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
Sl\ HILDA.
r PHE Largest and oesc-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. Citv i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
IA/IM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams i..,!;
Hoteil Accommodation in Victoria. Passene-er ft ft
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per DaT or fro,n
2 Guineas per Week. P 3 ’ 01 110111
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.


■
c* ■■
m
"T.\. .. . .*, - /"
■:■■ <: ;i-, a .av.
w
...
k" :
im&i
. v-
:
; \
r
S’
m
HP-f
— - '
gpjflf Y '' ps?# »’-*'' ■
, /m
M
*4fe;&.y,v -*, i.;;
5Mf
ss**
■.
a
JS
m
:
u •%
a: :
mm
■ V*
efe
iA
m •
fi?!'
m
#r- •: 1
■
>y~
/
'*
; ; 4 ' av- .,..
ak.- - ; /Mfts - ,
'^47
• .
: Ik,,
1 lh
2K
i SHM
JPI
# 4 ,,
wmim*/
nA
,
- r
g '■'r\
;
,
" .- ...
££ ,
V-- V '"
■••. V
jfv
iC l
■
■ : > V W||&
S ■„...
,. y^"'-
MOTIIffP tr • •-*.•
■ -MM
, ., a; Jr .; , .
fsra-'
its
r
MCZ'-s* ■ '%"■ ,,
.’ ;6«£sS5
SS®
- :
• • ' •
' '• ; f. '
S44.ift;
p ...
M
'
Wv
.'■■
K®t
' %
Head Office: Citizens’ Buildings, Castloreagh & leers Sts., Sidney
INVESTED FUNDS EXCEED £1,450,000.
THE con PAN Y HAS MONEY TO LEND on security of Freehold, City or Suburban Properties, good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing
———— —lll ■ —-—■ Lands (Freehold or C.P. and C.L.) or * , „ . .
Government or Municipal Debentures of any of the Australian States or New Zealand at l'tlffTClXL OT IfILCrCSt.
Loans arranged for a fixed term, or made payable by instalments, without notice or payment of any fine.
Fmdpai Mflces: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, 'Wellington (N.Z.)


mm
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
A MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
“ MAKES HOME, SWEET HOME IN DEED.”
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
m
Rheumatism, Lumbago and Sciatica
Caused by Uric Acid in the Blood. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills get at the
Cause. They Drive the Uric Acid Out
of the System.
These are three of the most common and painful
diseases in this country, especially prevalent in
the colder districts. These three ailments prac-
tically, arise from the same cause, and the names
only distinguish the location of the pains. If the
arms and legs are affected it is Rheumatism ; if in
the loins, Lumbago; and in the hips, Sciatica.
The attacks are generally brought on by chills
when the body is over-heated, or by exposure to
the damp or cold draughts, which act, not upon
the bones or muscles, but upon the Uric Acid in
the Blood, which is the cause of the diseases. The
pains are affected more or less by cold or heat. A
damp day will double you up, or the warmth of
the bed will intensify the pain. But these diseases
need not be of long duration if they are attended
to in the early stages. The first twinge should
be a warning not to be neglected. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills get at the cause by purifying
the Blood of Uric Acid and all impurities. They
are a positive and permanent cure for all diseases
arising from a disordered Stomach, Liver and
Kidneys, and are an infallible remedy for Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Sick Headaches, Piles,
Pimples, Boils, Skin Diseases, and Female Ail-
ments. Packed in amber bottles, and sold
throughout Australasia.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., EEDFEEN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The fact that Barney Kieran won the English
quarter-mile “salt-water” in 5.22 1-5, and beat Briton
Billington by 25,vd. in 440 yd., indicates that the Sydney
boy is now in condition. The time of 5.22 1-5 in the open
sea is equal to, if not better than, his world’s record—
-5.19 in an enclosed Sydney bath. From now to the end
of September, when the English season closes, Kieran will
probably shake things up somewhat. On his 440\-ds.
showing the Half-mile (raced last Tuesday) should go to
him also. To-day (Thursday)he will attack the “ hundred ”
at Weston-super-mare. After that he will be free till the
500. yd. is raced at Leeds on August 2Sth ; and the 200 yd.
eventuates on September 26th. Both of these events
should fall to him, and then he’ll come back to Australia,
unless a duchess marries him, or some other equally good
billet offers.
* * * *
Sydney Rugby people did not display the
wisdom of the long animal without legs by continuing
their first-grade competition while a Queensland inter-
state team was being knocked out at Sydney Cricket
• Ground by a Cornstalk team. As it happened, it did not
•make any great difference in the gate, for the club
matches were badly attended —but it did give the im-
pression that the N.S.W. people were not wildly anxious
to help the hard-up Bananalanders any more than they
could help.
* * * *
The inter-State Rugby match was a great disas-
ter to the Bananaland team, which went under by 24
points to 9. The Cornstalk pack was immensely superior,
and the line kicking of the N.S.W. backs was excellent.
It neutralised every temporary advantage gained by the
Queenslanders, and cleared the way for successful
assaults on the Northerners’ goal line. Rig-lib through
the first spell the Queenslanders failed to score, and
although they pulled themselves together, and made
g-reat efforts in the second half, the Cornstalks piled up
the points almost as fast, and made eight while the others
registered nine. As a match it was too one-sided to be
really interesting.
* # » *
Owing, presumably, to the sudden rise in the
temperature, Sydney’s first-grade Rugby on Saturday
afternoon was, all round, a wretched display. With their
blood grown thick, and their guernseys bought specially
for the antarctic breezes of a few weeks back, the players
seemed, to imagine that they were dead and kicking dyna-
mite in Tophet. At the Sydney Cricket Ground, before
the inter-State match, South Sydney ag-ain got Glebe
down, and fell upon it to the tune of 6to 3. It was a
fearsome exhibition, and the more prominent features
were language, roughness, and a disregard for the regula-
tions that made even the land agents present blush.
At, the Agricultural Ground the University crowd
simply rubbed the head of North Sydney on the land.
If it hadn’t been blinded by its own perspiration,
it might have rubbed the whole animal. As it was, it felt
content to win by 14 points to nil. In No. 2 Cricket
Ground, Western Suburbs downed the Easterns by exactly
the same score. In this match damaged noses, torn
mouths and cut legs were in evidence, and created a
cheerful red atmosphere. Balmain, which began to
sparkle lately, resumed a rush-light sort of splendor, and
went down before Newtown by 16 points to nil. The
result of the scramble was to put South Sydney at the
head of the list with 19 points, Glebe falling back to share
second place with Western Suburbs —18 points each.
University and Newtown follow with 17 and 16 points
respectively, and the rest are nowhere.
* • * *
The N.S.W. team to meet Victoria next week
under Australian rules put up some remarkable kicking
at Wentworth Park (Sydney) on Saturday against the
next best 18. The team includes five "Y.M.O.A.
men, one Newtowner, one West Sydney, two North
Shore, two East Sydneys, four Sydneys, and two N,
Paddingtons. Without a doubt, it is a strong team
—it is doubtful if a stronger could have been picked
—although in some quarters there is an "impression
that merit has been passed over in the anxiety to
have all the first grade teams represented.
» * * *
With but four more games to play before the
semi-finals Victorian football excites keener speculation,
the question being whether Essendon or South Melbourne
will be the fourth competitor—Collingwood, Fitzro.v and
Carlton being assured of the other three places.
Saturday’s games were much interfered with by a stiff
wind —the Northerly Busters being far the most consistent
and steadiest team of the three on each ground. South’s
supporters, who flatter themselves they have a hope of the
premiership, went home from St. Kilda with something to
ponder over, the seasiders, who adorn the bottom of the
list, having scored 41 points to South’s 39. Geelong,
which had badly dished ’Roy three weeks before, went
down to Collingwood’s science and combination, scoring-
-36 to ’Wood’s 50 points. The most cheerful argument—
though is wasn’t football—was between ’Roy and
Essendon. They were trying a new umpire, once a
tip-top player, and spectators quickly learned that a master
footballer is by no means necessarily a master umpire. As
soon as the players found he was bounceable, tripping,
slinging, scragging, deliberate kicking out of bounds,
and similar irregularities became the rule, and the game
deteriorated into a rough scramble, enlivened by two or
three incipient “ scraps.” For pretty football the games
played by the Association clubs are better worth Watch-
ing since their committee impressed the necessity of
strictness and severity on their umpires, and passed a
rule prohibiting and penalising kicking in the ruck—a
“ruck” being constituted by four or more players
assembled together. At the ’Roy-Essendon match writer
saw many vicious and seemingly hopeless kicks made at
the ball when it was being bustled about among a closely-
packed mob, and sooner or later someone will get the top
of his head removed or his ear booted off, if that sort of
thing is allowed. West Melbourne and North still dwell
at the top of the tree, and look like settling matters
finally and more or less amicably in about seven weeks.
v * » *
The inter-State Rugby match did not interfere
with the attendance at the various “ Soccer ” fixtures in
Sydney on Saturday. By beating Sydney by 12 to 2 Pyr-
mont maintained its position at the head of the list with
18 points. Rozelle and Glebe each moved up a couple of
points without changing position in any way. Against
Rozelle, Granville had no hope, and was trampled under
foot by 7to nil; while Glebe served South Sydney up on
toast, sto 1. Balmain and Ultimo both had scratch teams
in the field, and Balmain won by 4 to 2.
* * * *
“Crank”: Might happen that those presenta-
tions of purses of sovereigns and money in other forms to
certain members of M.L. football team bound for England
may imperil their amateur status. According to English
and Welsh laws, such things constitute professionalism.
* * * *
The inter-State lacrosse match between N.S.W.
and Queensland took place at Sydney on Saturday. The
gate suffered from the competition of the Rugby teams
representing the same States, which were playing the
same time at Sydney Cricket Ground. Both teams were
very f%st, and the crosse work was said by experts to be
the’ best seen in Sydney up to date. Queensland drew
first blood, and scored a couple before the Cornstalks got
a look in. The Walers by the end of their first quarter
had got their second wind, and were leading by 4 to 3. At
half time the Cornstalks were leading by 6to 4. In the
third quarter the Cornstalks got in some very clever pass-
ing charges, and Queensland began to sink rapidly.
Something like a rot set in, and the end of the quarter
found N.S.W. six ahead—ll to 5. The last quarter saw
Queensland make great efforts to level things up ; but the
Cornstalk defence was firm as a rock, and the Banana-
landers managed to secure only a couple of goals, while
the Cornstalks made a counter attack and secured
another one. When the whistle blew with the final toot
of fate, Queensland had gone under by five goals—N.S.W-
-12, Queensland 7. #
In Adelaide the S.A. lacrossers played all
comers, and plaved to win. Victoria was beaten by 11
goals to 3, and a second team put Westralia through by
sto 2 Then the visiting State teams met, and Victoria
defeated Westralia by 11 to 6. The ’Gropers stayed on a
week, to take it out of the S. Australians, and never had a
hope. Sturt, the premier Adelaide club, hammered them
by 17 to 5, and then the S. Australian team proper fell
upon them on Saturday and crushed them by 22 to 3.
Altogether, it was a great and terrible fall.
* » * *
W. N. Willis’s average for the past three or four
seasons is about 10’7 runs—sheep-runs.
* * * *
If the magnates of cricket were not the hardest-
shelled Tories in any line of sport, the luck of the toss
would be reduced to a minimum in a series of test
matches. In a set of five matches only two tosses are
required—one for chqice of innings in the first game,
and another in the last. For the intermediate games the
pick of the wicket should be alternated between the
teams, so that each might have the advantage not less
than twice. When Maclaren captained a team in Aus-
tralia he proposed this fair-plav arrangement, but the
blessed authorities at this end would have none of it. It
was an innovation, and the dreary wisemen of “ the
game ” are enemies to innovations. Their great grand-
fathers were never struck by the notion of taking turn-
and-turn-about for choice of innings in English countv
cricket when return matches were fixed ; therefore York-
shire, in 1905, is allowed to win two successive tosses
against Lancashire, or vice versa, whilst N.S.W. and Vic-
toria continue to battle on the same unsportsmanlike
terms. The toss is a-purely gambling element in the
game, and it should be eliminated as far as possible. One
toss would suffice for a set of two matches. Two tosses,
or even one, would serve for a- set of three, five or
fifty-five matches. Why permit the possibility of one
side having first choice of innings every time 1 !? The reply
of the heavy fathers of cricket is the ancient Tory excla-
mation—“ Precedent.” Smother Precedent!
* » * *
“ A.8.C.” : Iheend of the Worcestershire
match saw Armstrong displaced from the head of the
averages by Noble, who has been performing consistently
all along, while Trumper moved up to third place. To
show the appalling failure with the bat of the majority of
the team, and how Noble and Armstrong have carried the
crowd on their backs: the aggregate of nine—Hopkins,
Gregory, Cotter, Kelly, M‘Leod, Gehrs, Laver, Newland,
and Howell—at the enc[ of the match totalled 3188 runs,
while Noble and Armstrong between them had scored
3309. Noble, with 1780, still stands a chance of putting
up the record aggregate of an Australian batsman in
England, a distinction at present held by Trumper.
* * * * *
V.R.10. reports that during the past year it gave
away added money to the amount of £35,525—£107 less
than previous year. But larger fields enabled, through
sweepstakes, the handing over to winners of £1167 more
than the previous twelvemonths, a total of £46,618.
Though some of the meetings were losing ventures, the
year ended with a profit of £3005. To swell this modest
sum it has been decided to reduce race-meetings within a
radius of 20 miles of Melbourne to 24 days per annum
from January next.
A GOOD AUSTRALIAN.
“The South Australian Premier (Hon. T. Price), when
he stands up in his place in the Assembly to declare his
policy speech, will be clothed from neck to toe in home-
made apparel. Shirt, underwear, suit, boots, collar, and
tie will all have on them the brand ‘Made in Australia.’”
—Adelaide paper.
The only part of “ Tom ” Price not manufactured
in Australia. Yet he is a better Australian than
many local products.
When York had run away with the Caulfield
G.N. Hurdle Race there was no more doubt as to his
having- been the best of good things for the correspond-
ing event at Flemington. York’s running with Marmont
in the Doutta Galla Hurdles, a month previously, seemed
to give the old champion a good chance, but last Satur-
day’s result disposed of that notion very decisively. The
S’Australian jumper looks like repeating some of the per-
formance of Redleap, who captured the Steeplechase at
Caulfield after winning the Flemington “ double.” He is
said to be equal to the big sticks. There are others —
notably Beilis, and perhaps' Airly. But if York stands
up, the time for the Steeple will probably be a record,
and only the racehorses in the field will have a show in
the last mile of the journey.
York is another smack in the eye for punters
apt to complain that a horse indulged with the lead for
the greater part of a long race has been “ made too much
use of.” The old complaint looks absurd when a good
stayer stays in front all the way. To have the lead in a
jumping race is to be spared the risk of coming to grief
through another horse’s blunder. To tire in the last half-
mile is to fail for vant of stamina; consequently, the
leader that rushes them along from end to end may be
said to win by testing the stamina of the pursuers, which
wouldn’t be fully tested if the best stayer were not made
so much use of until the others are getting tired. Towards
the finish it is only the jockey on the foremost that can
afford to ease his mount a little—for a final effort if
necessary. The pursuers have to be most bustled at the
time when they are most weary.
* * * *
The difference. Last year’s Caulfield Grand
National Hurdles went to Good Day (50 to 1 against), who
did Ikey a great turn. This year it is different, and there
is much lamentation in Israel. Saturday’s winner (York)
started first favorite and is coupled in doubles with every-
thing in the G.N. Steeple.
» * » *
“Old ’Un ” : Easy successes of crack wheat
State lepper York in V.R.C. and V.A.T.C. Grand National
Hurdles has set tongues wagging, and it is not unlikely
that V.R.C. committee will provide opportunity for those
concerned to explain. Just prior to winning the V.R.C.
event, York was beaten in the Williaiustown Hurdles, and
afterwards went under in Doutta Galla (at Flemington)
and Moonee Valley Hurdles. York’s appropriation of
V.R.C. and V.A.T.C. events equals achievements of
Rhesus (1382), The Agent (1885), and Marmont (1903). As
a yearling-, York was bought for 30 guineas—his breeding
is good enough for anything.
The Y.R.C.. in a praiseworthy attempt to cut
down the number of race meetings during the year, has
roused the suburban proprietary clubs, which are
threatened with serious financial loss, to concerted
action in defence. These bodies make a good
point by showing that, while they are allotted
one day per week among the lot, the unregis-
tered or “illegitimate” race clubs hold meetings
on 156 days, or on every other working day throughout
the year. The suburban proprietary clubs urge that a
curtailment of their privileges will only increase the
profits of the more undesirable unregistered people, who
will grab the vacant dates for themselves. But granting
all this, the remedy would seem to lie in an effort, Parlia-
mentary if necessary, to grapple with the illegitimate
racecourses. There are too many race meetings, both in
Sydney and Melbourne, and too much horse, and too
much turf and undersized jockey, and far too much
bookie.
* * * «
Horse-racing, above all things, begins to catch
the national spirit, and it is seriously proposed that there
shall be an Australian Derby and St. Leger, to be run in
each State in turn. Chairman S. Miller, of V.R.C., says
his committee discussed the matter with the A.J.C.
executive, and that the latter expressed approval. The
idea is that the Australian Derby and St. Leger should
supersede the State races of that name, the added money
to be £2OOO and £lOOO respectively.
» * '* *
Ikey Mo. gets considerable of what is going
both ways in connection with the horse-racing business.
Oxenham topped Australian money-winning list for year
just closed with £5382, and Sol Green’s £4319 followed
closely. J. Wren gathered £2BBO, and E. Kelly £1298.
Truly the bejewelled are the favored of fortune, and yet
it isn’t enough for them. They want the earth and the
fulness thereof.
* * * *
Veteran Queensland trainer J. Butler died at
Ipswich recently, aged 77. Butler was employed by late
Joshua Bell in the halcyon days of the Grange'stud, when
the old North Australian (Ipswich) Jockey Club’s course
existed on the Grange estate. It w'as there that Warhawk,
Whisker, Olivia, Wheatear, Waterloo, Sir Oliver, Lothair,
Le Grand, Elastic, Othello, Cadmus, Canary, Lilia, Lord
Clifden, and others were prepared.
Ikey Noses, now on strike in Sydney, has
become arrogant and nasty, and declares that he will
wait on the clubs no more. Meanwhile Canterbury and
Moorefield races have taken place w-ithout him," and
although he was numerically less, the blackleg—ahem !
“free bookmaker’’—supplied all the capital that was
required. One book (an ex-comp of a Sydney sporting
weekly) went to Canterbury “to give £2OO a chance,”
and won £3OO on one race, and £BOO on the day. Others
reported similar results—what an awful time the backers
must have had !—and the result is that the rush to fill the
places of the Noses on strike is like the rush to a free
banquet. Probably when the Noses declare the strike off
they will find that thev have been struck off.
* * * *
Some anti-gambler alleges that popular betting
on races only dates from about 1849. Before that it was
almost exclusively the bloated aristocracy which wasted
its substance on the precarious animal.
* * * *
“Snaffle ” : As little as 25 to 1 was taken “the
two Yorks” for V.A.T.C.’s G.N. Hurdles and ’Chase at
Caulfield last and next Saturdays, and York (with one leg
in) looks like having a big chance of landing the double,
especially as he has incurred no penalty and is no tyro
over “ country,” having tackled the big leps three or four
times. Published somewhere that Marmont (with 12.13)
can have no chance in Saturday’s Steeple. Bunkum !
Redleap, Daimio, Domino, and Colonel Shilinski had
weightier loads when they won.
* * * •
An English motor-cyclist recently ran a short
distance at the rate of 86 miles an hour. The man that
would do it would ride Satan himself if His Knibbs could
only be held and saddled.
* * * *
Sydney’s latest craze is to learn to drive a motor,
even if there is no chance of being able to buy one, and
a School of Motoring meets the demand by training
men to drive, repair, and clean the machines. Also,
when it has taught them, it will hire them cars, or get
them billets as motor-men (chaffeur is declared obsolete
by the English Automobile Club, whose word is law on
such matters). Last week writer saw a crowd of cars
careering out to Coogee in great style, and learned after-
wards that it was the School taking its pupils out for a
run, after which it would take part in the hill-climbing
contest. To induce a motor-car to climb a hill the
machine has to be coaxed and wheedled just as a horse
has, and a man who knows how to talk properly to a
machine can always get more out of it than one who
doesn’t. The hill-climbing was interesting, £15,000
worth of cars competing. It was a Swiss car which
carried off the honors, having slithered up a quarter of a
mile of Maroubra Hill—grade of from 1 in 6 to 1 in 12-
in Imin. 40sec.
* * * *
For weary years—from 1899, in fact, till the
present season—East Brisbane Harriers Club has mopped
up the Queensland cross-country championship. This
time the Thompson Estate burst in and grabbed the title.
Owing to having violated his amateur status, C. Saunder-
son, individual champion for six years, could not start
this season, and the honor was taken by T. Singer.
How the retired bikists run to pubs. Plugger
Bill Martin has served out liquor to thirsty Victorians
Relph, ex-champion of England, and Carpenter and
Parsons (Vic. wheelists) are also in the pub. line in Mel-
bourne. Now Pie-biter MacFarland threatens to throw
up the jigger and take to the pewter, also in Victoria
•**■*■*
The cross-country five-mile championship of
Bent’s State still remains with the East Melbourne Club
and G. Blake, of the same crowd, retains the individual
title. Runners up were Ballarat and East Melbourne.
* * * *
In the tediously-prolonged wrestling bout be-
tween Weber and Gunga Brabm, at Melbourne Athenasum,
the other night, the greasiness of the Hindu became a
great protection to him as time went on. His skin exuded
oil from every pore, and the trouble with Weber was to
hold the black man tightly enough to exert the force
necessary for levering him over upon his back. Gunga
didn’t slip from Weber’s grasp. It was the grasp that in-
variably slipped from Gunga what time he kept himself
huddled together on the mat. He avoided a fall for 100
minutes, but he never made a show of aggression. He
lay low and perspired for safety.
**’ * *
Weber, judging from the time he took in
scoring a pin-hold against Gunga, is at present no match
for Scott, the Maoriland champion. Scott is a mighty
big fellow and a versatile performer, and he did as he
pleased with the heavy-footed Harry Groth. The two
winners are to wrestle anon for the right of challenging
Buttan Singh, who may possibly retain his “ champion-
ship ” title by greasily dodging a pin-fall, but doesn’t look
very likely to overpower either of the big white men.
* * * *
Pigeon slayers are a bloodthirsty lot. N.S.W.
Gun Club wanted to give a “send off ” to one of its vice-
presidents and decided on a complimentary “shoot.” A
trophy was subscribed for ; the members of the club shot
off for the “honor” of presenting it, and before this high
distinction could be properly allotted 220 pigeons were
slaughtered. The winner of the competition thereupon
asked the president of the club to do the presentation,
and presumably that person rose, covered with blood and
feathers, and did it.
* * * *
“ Vaevictis ” is indeed the motto of the sports-
man. Stanbury, ever since that eventful Saturday after-
noon, has been a demi-god—and the English language
doesn’t hold oblivion enough to throw on defeated Towns.
And yet, Australian scullers owe Towns a debt of grati-
tude. Stanbury went abroad years ago and threw away,
or otherwise lost, the championship. And it was Towns
who went abroad to bring it back to the Parramatta, and
wasted much valuable time and hard cash to get it. He
had to hunt old Jake Gaudaur to his lair at Rat Portage,
in Canada, and consent to outrageous conditions, before
the Canuck would agree to row.
Stated by a Sunday paper that a man-o’-wars-
man, at present on the Australian station, will receive his
discharge in a few weeks and immediately challenge Jim
Stanbury to defend his title as champion sculler of the
world. This hunk of information was accompanied by a
vivid description of the hardness of the man in blue, and
other interesting particulars, but there was no mention
of his name—and even a beastly, common blue-jacket
has a name.
* * * *
A fight occurred the other night in a popular
bar in Swanston-street, Melbourne, which casts some
light on a recent discussion re the comparative punishing
powers of professional and amateur scrappers. A large
Victorian landlord, 6ft. 4in. in his skin, and stout enough
to carry away several farms, found himself drinking at
the same bar wdth a coon pugilist of no great size. The
man of acres began to make fierce remarks. The coon
looked hard in another direction, and tried to live it
down. The remarks grew 7 more personal and more
vigorous. The all-white w 7 as warned Hint, he was toying
with a dangerous animal, but he insisted that .he could
destroy two like the coon pugilist between meals, and he
followed this up with so choice an insult that the colored
“ genleman ” saw red. The fight lasted about 30 seconds,
and then the bulky amateur was carried into a cab. A
week later his face looked as if he had been stopping
tramcars with it.
* * * *
The Hanley-Raff scrap, at Sydney Gaiety, on
Saturday night, w 7 as a gruesome business. Like Bright’s
disease, Hanley went for the kidneys every time. While
he paid attention to that part of ’ Raff’s anatoniy where
the electric-belt is generally worn to infuse a warm invigo-
rating current, &e., Raff hit him a beauty on the eye.
Hanley left the kidneys alone and coiled up on the floor,
but managed to get up again inside time and stagger
round like a lame microbe. Raff tried desperately to
finish the object noth his fists, but Hanley managed to
weather it. Later on, he resumed his attentions to Raff’s
kidneys, and this writer, who used to shoot the kea birds
that eat the kidneys of the living sheep in Canterbury
(M.L.), felt that he must go out and buy a gun. Raff
smote and swiped, but Hanley went on tap, tapping at
his kidneys, till Raff began to sag. over and wear an ex-
pression of agony. Then Henley smote him suddenly on
the jaw, and Raff w 7 ent to his chair, where he
instructed his myrmidons ta wave the towel of defeat.
This kidney belting is quite legal, but it is utterly
repulsive.
* * * *
There was a flavor of ye olden tymqie about the
bare-knuckle fight that happened at Middle Harbor last
week. Bruisers from Waterloo district fought for £25
a-side, without referee, timekeeper, ring, or rules of any
kind. Fifteen rounds passed without any serious punish-
ment happening to either party—and then there was a
rush of police and a scatter of the crowd. The National
Sporting Club offered the warriors the “ gate ” to finish
the interrupted tenor of their scrap in its hall on Thurs-
day, under the M.Q. rules. The matter ended by one
man being knocked out in the third round, after being
very second best from the start.
»
N.S.W. Government last Saturday issued
warrants against W. N. Willis, George M‘Nair,
(employed in Willis’ office), and Bernard Hoskins,
on a charge of conspiracy. M‘Nair and Hoskins
were promptly arrested. Willis will probably be
met with in S’Africa.


IiIMIIIJ
m
m
MR. HOWARD PAUL,
The Finest Judge of a Cigar in England .
It has often been a debatable point, Who is the finest judge of a
cigar in England? Lord Kitchener is considered to be a keen judge
of" what a ° cigar should be, but it is generally admitted that Mr.
Howard Paul takes the first place as a cigar critic. Mr. Paul has
visited most countries where cigar tobacco is grown. Whilst m Cuba
he was the guest of Senor Alvarez, the former proprietor of the
Henry Clay Cigar Factory. We have received the following entirely
unsolicited testimonial from Mr. Paul :
tt / found no more fragrant cigars in the Isle
of Cuba than your delicious ‘ Sitrabarangs.
SOLE -AGrUHLsTTS :
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOTHERGILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
Mr. DAN REDDAN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Messrs. CORNELL & CO., Adelaide, S,A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. DUNCAN McLEAN, Greymouth, N.Z.
FIRST PRIZE
... IN THE
8
ART UNION.
WHO WANTS IT?
£5OO FOR IS-
SECOND PRIZE, value .£lOO
THIRD „ „
and 200 other Valuable Prizes. Total
Value, £l5OO.
DRAWN, OCTOBER 28th.
Someone’s Sure to Win.
Buy Your Tickets Early.
Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper
on 2nd November, 1905.
TICKETS may be bad from Agents in all
Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bail
Catered for
on Most
Reasonabla
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
WILLIAMS’
I SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
m
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
tap - Every Bar weighs 17 Honest
Enalish Ounces , divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never be without it.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
mm
<w
YeryOldVatted
th I '-
LiqueurWiiisky.
Distilled by
7 <?n4
Kilmarnock, Scotland.
State Premier Carruthers asks Australian
Premier Deakin to go to law with him in the High
Court on 14 separate points in connection with the
fixing of the capital. The legal profession thinks
the idea a good one, but considers that it would be
still better to have 14 separate actions, and is of
opinion that each Government should engage a
strong Bar, so as to have the best legal assistance
in its time of trouble. Nothing makes the Bar so
sorry as to see two wealthy litigants struggling
along without the best legal assistance.
TO BE SOLD,
PURSUANT to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Queensland, made in an action MURPHA and
another v. MURPHY, with the approbation of Mr.
Justice Real, by Messrs. Kennard & Co. and Messrs.
Scholefield & Godsall, of Toowoomba, Auctioneers in con-
junction, the persons appointed by the said Judge, at the
Auction Rooms of the said Messrs. Scholefield & Godsall,
at Toowoomba, in the State of Queensland,
On Thursday, 28th September, 1905,
AT 12 O’CLOCK NOON,
certain freehold and leasehold lands known as
“ LISELICAN,” situate near the town of Pittsworth, on
the Darling Downs, in the State of Queensland, together
with the plant and stock thereon, and comprising the
following :
(a) “ The Homestead Portion,” containing about 5919
acres of freehold land, with house, woolshedand shearers’
huts thereon, situate in the parish of Domville, county of
Derby, permanently watered, and being the best descrip-
tion of box country, with all timber dead. All securely
fenced, and subdivided into paddocks fenced with wire-
netting and other improvements.
( b) “St. Mullins,” situate in the parish of Yandilla,
county of Aubigny, containing about 2655 acres of free-
hold land, fronting the Condamine River for about 3 miles,
with reservoirs, windmills, and hut thereon, soil of a rich
black alluvial nature suitable for lucerne, and all securely
fenced, with other improvements.
(c) “ Pine Paddock,” containing about 2090 acres of
leasehold land, situate in the parish of Domville, county of
Derby, securely fenced.
(d) Piece of freehold land adjoining “Pine Paddock”
aforesaid and situate in Turallin Township, parish of
Domville, county of Derby, containing half an acre.
The whole of the abovementioned properties are within
short distance of one another and are commonly referred
to collectively as “ Liseliean Lands.” ;•
(e) PLANT, House and Kitchen, Furniture, Tools, Wag-
gonette, Drays, and Harness. STOCK, upwards of 74
head of mixed cattle, 2396 mixed sheep, and 21 head of
mixed horses.
Also certain freehold lands known as “ GRANGE
FARM,” situate near Toowoomba, on the Darling Downs,
in the parish of Drayton, county of Aubigny, together
with the Plant and Stock thereon.
This farm contains about 80 acres of rich agricultural
land, the greater part of which is under lucerne, securely
fenced, and sub-divided into paddocks ; and house, barn,
stables, stockyard, orchards, windmill, etc.
PLANT, consisting of house and kitchen, furniture,
tools, agricultural implements, lucerne (about 60 tons),
buggy, dray, springcart, and harness.
And STOCK, consisting of 2 head of horses and 2 cows.
The Liseliean Lands, with plant and stock thereon, and
Grange Farm, with plant and stock thereon, will first be
offered for Sale separately as going concerns.
Particulars and conditions of sale may be had gratis of
Messieurs HAMILTON & HAMILTON, of Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba, in the State of Queensland, Solicitors, of
Messieurs KENNARD & CO., of Toowoomba aforesaid,
Auctioneers, and Messieurs SCHOLEFIELD & GODSALL,
of Toowoomba, aforesaid, Auctioneers, and at the place of
sale.
Dated this thirty-first day of July, 1905.
[L.S.] W. A. DOUGLAS,
Registrar.
HAMILTON & HAMILTON,
Solicitors for Plaintiffs,
RUTHVEN ST., TOOWOOMBA.
Town Agent:
T. B. HUNTER, Solicitor,
39 ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
■0
QBfl
Oil
ODD
1
IJOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
■ ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King- Street Coffee Palace,” “WB
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS,
*\
Cough, Cough,
Night and day, until the strength is
entirely exhausted, and that dreadful
word “Consumption” begins to be
whispered amongst friends. That’s a
common story, familiar to the people of
all parts of Australia. There’s another
story, which ought to be as widely known
as the story of the disease —and that is
the story of the cures effected by the use
of
DR. SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY
for COUGHS, COLDS
and CONSUMPTION.
Bronchitis, obstinate, deep-seated
coughs, bleeding of the lungs, and other
forms of disease which affect respiratory
organs, are permanently cured by the
use of
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for COUGHS, COLDS & CONSUMPTION.
Small dose. Pleasant to take.
Every bottle guaranteed.
Price 1/6 and 3/-
m
r
k
m
MOTORING «*«, CYCLING
on Australian Roads is CHEAPER,
MORE RELIABLE and MORE
ENJOYABLE when
2?
are fitted, because they give
less trouble than other Tyres .
A bright Australian girl, in the desperate
endeavor to keep young, appeared for the fourth
time as a debutante at a recent hop. And if
nothing matrimonial happens she is quite capable
of becoming a young thing just from the nursery
several more times.
The position of the N.S.W. “Reform
Government in regard to the Lands scandals can be
put in a sentence : Whereas public duty demands
a keen prosecution of the inquiry, the Govern-
ment, in the words of its own press supporters,
has to be flogged to every step. Sydney Tele-
GB.APH suggests, as a result of the latest disclosures,
that Premier Carruthers should leave the Cabinet
for a while until the scandals have blown over.
But of what advantage would that be? If the
reason is that Mr. Carruthers’ open presence m
the Cabinet is undesirable, would not his influence
as a sort of temporarily-suspended Premier be just
as bad ? The Telegbaph’s suggestion is shock-
ingly foolish. Fancy the Constitutional position
of having the Premier under suspension ?
A coincidence occurred at Melb. Supreme
Court when Edwards, convicted of manslaughter-
ing Skinner at Waranga, was sentenced by Justice
Hood to 12 years’ hard labor. Many years ago a
’possum-trapper was killed near Strathmerton, and
his body was cut up similarly to Skinner’s. That
slayer was also found guilty and sentenced to 12
years. When the hunt was on for Edwards, the
Strathmerton homicide’s photo, was identified by
several as being a picture of Edwards, so much
alike were the two. And after Edwards had been
sentenced, almost the next business of the court
was to give the old duplicate man-slayer, who is
still wandering in evil courses, two years for
cattle-stealing.
A sorry tale was told at Sydney Quarter
Sessions, last week, when two men, both first
offenders, were charged with assault and robbery.
One of the pair, a seafaring man, stated that at
the time of his offence he was starving, and that
he saw the prosecutor counting his money and
wrenched it from him. He got £4 and divided it
with his mate, and then both went looking for
work. As a side issue, the robber had carried a -
portmanteau for the robbed, and the latter had
refused to give him a trifle for the labor. The
accused had at different times saved 27 lives, a,nd
held the English, N.S. Wales and Victorian
Humane Society’s medals for saving life and the
Lloyd medal for conspicuous bravery at sea.
Judge Docker could not see his way to bring the
case under the First Offenders Act and gave the
medalist 12 months.
A carpenter with the Young Ladies’
Journal name of Dorsamey Noel has had a
memorable “scrap” at law with uncle Cohen, to
whom he is indebted to the extent of £l3. The
carpenter having shown no anxiety to pay up,
uncle decided to appeal to the law, and with a
view to doing the thing cheaply voluntarily wiped
£3 off the debt, reducing it to £lO. This made it
possible .to sue the carpenter economically in
the Small Debts Court, where Cohen got a
verdict. But Dorsamey Noel appealed, and hired
an expensive barrister to prove to the Full Court
that he Owed uncle £3 more than uncle said he
did. He proved it so successfully that it was de-
cided that the Small Debts Court had no jurisdic-
tion, and uncle’s verdict was quashed. Also,
uncle had to pay costs as a reward for knock-
ing off £3, which is the sort of thing he will never
do again.
N.S.W. Lands Commission heard from a.
modest man in broad Scotch, the other day. He>
hadn’t been long in politics as Labor member lor
ex-Spealcer Abbott’s Lower Darling seat, when a.
flock of constituents came along with some land
business. He fixed them up all right,, and they
went away happy and without being asked to
leave behind even the price of a drink. The news
that a successful land agent had opened up busi-
ness on these terms flew over the Kiverina and
the Darling country like a duststorm, and every
train landed a new drove of applicants at bcobie s
door. Finally, when the representative of a rich
squatting co. came along, and sent him fossicking
in. out-of-the-way corners for advice, he screwed
uo his courage and asked for £5 to help pay his
boot-bill. When the business was through, the
squatting co. handed him a parcel. I said,
* There’s more than £5 here,’ ” the innocent new
chum told the Commission. But the squatter
said he wouldn’t have an easy conscience if he paid
less ; and later on, conscience being still unsatis-
fied, another £25 dropped in upon the new chum.
Just at that stage the man in broad Scotch began
to smell things, and when the next person with
land-hunger happened along he was passed on co
a lawyer. Lawyers are used to smells.


Baby Treated at Two Hospital's Over a
Year —Eyes Grew Worse Doctor
Said They Might Be Bad for Years.
ONE BOX OF CUTICURA
MAKES COMPLETE CURE
'* When my little girl was a few months
old, her eyes began to get bad; thinking
it was from her teeth, I lived in hopes of
them getting better, but as they did not
improve I decided to get medical advice
I took her to the Plospital several
times, and subsequently to the Children’s
Hospital at , to which institution I
took her for twelve months. The doctors
were most kind and attentive, and did all
tney could for her, but her eyes seemed
to be growing worse. One doctor told
me they might be bad for years; I was
very miserable at such a prospect. I was
one day stopped in the street by a Mrs.
Todd who told me that Cuticura Oint-
ment had cured her boy, and advised me
to try it. I commenced using it that very
night. The cure has been marvellous.
Ihe eyes soon commenced to get strong,
and they are now as healthy as if there
had never been anything the matter with
them. The cure was completed with less
than one box of Cuticura Ointment. You
are at liberty to make what use you like
of this letter, and I trust it may be the
means of others being cured as my little
girl has been.—Mrs. F. Phillips, Grafton
St., Waverly, Sydney, N. S. W.” Refer-
ence, Messrs. R. Towns Sc Co., Sydney.
SLEEP FOR BABIES
And Rest for Tired, Fretted Mothers
in Cuticura.
Instant relief and refreshing sleep for
skin-tortured babies, and rest for tired,
fretted mothers, in warm baths with
Cuticura Soap, to cleanse, and gentle
anointings with Cuticura Ointment, the
great skin cure, and purest and sweetest
of emollients, to heal.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Fills are Bold throughout the
world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Faris?™RuVde
la Paix; Australia, R. lowns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W. Potter
Drug & Chem. Corp., Boston, U. S. A Sole Prons hotter
M" Send *>l “How t 0 Cuiißaby n’umo U fs™ P
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
© «9
(Hegd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
I m
DAY
in
■ .
m
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: " ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
itSltesl
-
mm
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
52-5 S Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and 00.,
Brisbane.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building-, Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical 'Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everythin's.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Of course you- have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER !
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, £74 George St, Sydney,
a'OLE AGENT
Missing Friends. ’
EALY-MINWIE (married name un~-
—r- k » own ). grand-daughter of late Patrick
Healy, Gurner-street, St. Kilda, Victoria
Legacy. Write to FARMER & FARMER,’
oolicitors, Melbourne.
H
When Mr. Webster’s vote was wanted at
I a recent division the enterprising- Labor member
was having a shave and bath. It is encouraging to
TKIv? T 6 rv* n ™ eml ? ers reat and small to
Laly s Turkish Baths in the Royal Arcade
Melbourne. I heirs is only the sort of damn
po .cWiich should lean to a clean, if not a whol e P
political skin. Ihe lurkish bath party should be
the party of cleah politics.*
More'Socialism. The British Commons
has approved of a measure which gives the London
County Council power to register and inspect all
labor employment agencies. The reform might
well be imitated in Australia.
Griffith and Allan, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
MelbourneHßroken Hill Chambers, Queen IT
S£,f“ e " e “ «* Mr - H. P. Keihfoi
The Smart Girl says the D. C. L,. Degree is all right,
is far better for the man who wants a clear brain
But D.C.L. Whisky
and a sound heart.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
r£
v
15
o*l
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
T"n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
Agonis-Elliott tiros.,
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheitenham, England.
oydncy; : c.!ton, Gn.rws.ao & co., Melbourne.
Co-operating Wool & Produce Co., Sydney.
,. L _ A BONA FIDE PASTOR A LISTS’ IMSTITUTIOTJ.
NEW CLUB SHOT SHELLS
RE factory loaded with standard BLACK
POWDER and shot and wadded with the
famous U.M.C. wads. New Clubs are the most
popular shell of their class in America and else-
where, for they are hard hitting and give a uniform
pattern to the shot charge. Moderate priced.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
THE PEAPLY
TRUSS.
It IS deadly, too. Those who have been cured by
DR. J. A. SHERMAN'S METHOD OF CURING
RUPTURE say so in their letters, which YOU can
lead. Ihe Sherman Method is the only permanent
Rupture Cure in the world —scientific men say so,
medical men say so, the public say so, and you can
read all this for yourself in the two books which I will
send you free for your name and address. No pain.
No trouble. No operations in the Sherman Method
of Curing Rupture.
Send for TWO BOOKS ON RUPTURE—FREE.
HOURS—Daily (Sundays excepted) from 10 a.m. to 12.30, 2.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m.
EXTRA HOURS—Tuesday and Friday Evenings, from 7.30 to 9. Saturdays, 10 to
12.30 noon.
A. W. MARTIN,
S i/e Controller for Australasia,
St. Aubyns, 82 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Iii an afternoon tea-room on a recent day I sat
opposite a girl who blushed—blushed often and
vividly, like Sophia Western in Fielding's book
H hen so high an authority as John Oliver Hobbes
put lorn Jones” in the list of books that a
debutante should read I rose like one woman and
got the Great Work. Well, Sophia had cause to
blush ! But she didn’t blush at the Blue Causes,
tier brilliant color ” came at the mention of a
gentleman s name, or a chance remark of hor
maid, or at sight of a certain handwriting on an
envelope, or ataman’s glance. “Until a more
Beautiful color than vermilion is invented we will
say nothing of Sophia’s color on this occasion,”
said the novelist, that being the period when a
writer stood up alongside his book and personally
addressed ins characters, or pointed them out
to the public. Shade of all flamingoes! I
forget the “occasion,” but it was not a psycho-
logical one. She blushed because every virtuous
genteel girl of that time had infinite capacity for
changing color.” If she hadn’t, she was a minx
or a treak. 1 o return to the girl in the tea-room :
1 fe was about seventeen, her hair was done at
half-mast, and she wore the usual ninepenny
string of pearls round her pretty neck. An apple-
green blouse accentuated her fairness and helped
to show up the blushes. The red signals became
her wonderfully and I wondered if the stolid-
looking youth whose mumbled remarks brought
them out could appreciate such flattery.
A crowd of outdoor-sports girls trooped into the
room presently Those who were not talking or
laughing wore their mouths open or snapped-to.
Ti? .you the -glazed-looking lady in
hittle Dorrit, who advised the young ladies to
say i apa, potatoes, poultry, prunes, and prism ”
before entering a room, because that would give a
nice shape to the mouth ? I wonder what the
sportsg’r s would murmur. I would suggest :
Holf, bloque, afternoon-tea, blouse; rats.”
I he Adelaide damsel is much addicted to that
form of amusement known as the committee
dance. A dozen or twenty angels join forces, hire
a nail, and share two or three hundred invitations
among them. They give their dance a name,
generally that of a flower, and, when possible, the
decoration scheme accords with the name. Many
of these dances become annual affairs, the com-
mittees changing, of course, as time goes on. A
tew of them are the Butterfly, Waratah, Prim-
al: Cooeyana, Karaka, Geranium, Murillo, Bose,
Uaffodih Buttercup, Forget-me-not, and Taran-
tella. Occasionally the men rally up and give a
return dance to some of the damsels who have
entertained them but usually that scarce animal
man, is so overwhelmed with invitations that he
nas no time to invite anybody.
Prime Minister Deakin’s secretary has written
to the general secretary of the A.N. A., expressing
the joyousness with which the Commonwealth
Ministry grants its patronage to the Exhibition of
Australian Products and Manufactures, to be
held at the Royal Agricultural Society’s Ground
next December.
A correspondent, writing about the-desire of
women to make money, ” suggests that healthy
women with no very special home ties might trv
mimng. .* Let them take up some of the claims
tfiat have been abandoned by men,” she says.
I n America (Arizona and Idaho), there are num-
bers of women miners successfully working mines
tfiat had been previously worked and abandoned
,; c y n \ en \, A writer m an English paper all but
asserts that the feminine temperament is pecu-
liarly suited to the finding of metals. In other
words, when she comes on a patch of country
that men have given up as useless, save to
yield a good deal of road-metal to the ton she
divines the presence of “pay gravel.” Article
goes on to speak of salad farms—that sounds .sweet
and crisp and easy. Let some Sydney girl start a
salad farm Also there should be chances in violet
farms, gold-fish farms and catteries.. Mention of
the growing popularity of women preachers re-
minds that another correspondent tells me the
most popular preacher in New York is Ella
Wheeler Wilcox, the “Poems of Passion” lady,
j . draws enormous congregations,, and her I
admiring husband is one of her most attentive
auditors. I wonder if there’s anything to be made
iiGrG out of preaching 1 ? Or mining 1 ?
A belated letter from a prowler in far lards tells
me that the writer met, at the residence of Presi-
clent Diaz (of Mexico), a Sydney youth, Cyril
Elwell, son of a former member of the S.M.
Herald staff. Young Elwell was a Fort-street
schoolboy and studied electrical engineering at
the lecbmcal College. He is now in his third
year at the Leland Stanford University. He was
spending a summer vacation at the Mexican Pre-
sidency, but evidently it wasn’t all play as he I
acted as locum, tenens for the professor of ’mathe-
matics at the Uni. school in the ridiculously-
elevated city of earthquakes.
One of the Brescians—the family in which the
tour brothers are all brothers-in-law to each other
— belongs to the no-hat brigade, and has done a
thousand miles without a hat. lie has a head that
dolt’s Cr ° SS between Phil May ’ s and a golliwog
I heard (from S.A.) of a new thing in wedding-
cards lately. The notification consisted of a book-
let twelve inches by six and much be-filigreed.
Inside it showed on one page the wedding group
and on the other a copy of the marriage license.
York, it appears, there is an annual
distribution in the Italian quarter of Easter
hats to girl children at a Sunday kindergarten.
A sewing class of rich women had trimmed,
layishly, some 30 hats as catechism prizes. Books
pictures, and such-like were distributed amid an
utter absence of enthusiasm ; but when the table
of millinery was brought in, 125 girls rose as one
unanimous girl and rushed it. The teachers had
to call in two policemen with clubs to restore
order, and later, “after church,” many of the
hat-winners had their prizes rent from them by
bad, inefficient small girls who had not learnt
hats CatUCblSm ’ and * lad consequently won no
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


The newest proposal by which it is thought
Australia might earn a few coppers is through ex-
porting iron ore to Japan. Nippon hasn t
developed any ore of its own to speak of, and its
coal is of poor quality on the whole ; yet, under a
heavy tariff, and with other State help, it has
bu/c up a large iron industry, and makes its own
fighting weapons and its own warships. China
has been supplying most of the iron dirt out of
which the Monkey has built himself up so far ,
now it is suggested that Australia should supply
the dirt for the Monkey to work up into things to
subsequently hit us with. The idea of Australia
using its dirt to make things to protect itselt with
hasn’t, however, got much forrarder.
A Victorian correspondent : —
After two years of Canadian railway-man Tait in Vic-
toria the service is one seething mass of bosses. They are
like ants when you boil the ant-hill. Everybody is a boss.
As regards the Bolling Stock Branch (formerly more
appropriately named the Loco. Branch), dozens of officers
are falling over each other’s heaps of figures in the “ big
offices ” at Spencer-street in a wild endeavor to arrive at
the average amount of coal and oil used pel train mile.
Men who have never driven a locomotive, or anything
else but a pen or an oppressed office boy, fix an amount
of fuel, etc., to he used, and, if it be exceeded, reams of
official paper begin to blow around like leaves in Vallarn-
brosa. The oil consumption has been cut down so low
that it is said hundreds of pounds worth of machi-
nery, particularly valves and pistons, are being cut to
pieces before their time. Later on, when the official mind
grasps these facts, the pendulum will doubtless swing the
other way, and the saving will be shown in engine
renewals * and repairs, while oil will slosh round
like a cataract. But just now the fad is oil saving, lait
shows no desire for economy in his personal arrange-
ments. When he is on tour it is like a circus. Officials
pour along a few days ahead of the Commissioner s
special—" advance agents ” they jokingly call themselves
amongst their equals in the service. To inferiors they
assume a mighty haughty and frigid air, in fact the frigid
air pervades the service. It is hardly possible to speak to
a superior officer over the ’phone now without having to
thaw your nose at the gas-stove afterwards, so cold are
his remarks. The special is a gorgeous affair, run through
without a block or stop, while the trains with the com-
mon people who pay their fares drag along a day or so
behind. To a recent deputation of employees who waited
on him about anomalies which exist in the service, Tait
said : “ Yaas, I’ll admit there are some anomalies, and we
propose to go into them as soon as we get time, and 1
think we’ll get time vurra soon now. But, let me tell
you this, that dealing with anomalies will not mean a
rise in pay. There’ll be no increase in the average rate
of the pay roll. Let me tell 3 r ou that." And the men find
at every turn that therein lies the secret of Tait s
surplus : “ There’ll be no average increase in the pay
roll.”
Telephone 4-375.
MOORE HOUSE,
16 & 18 Cast/ereagh St., Sydney.
The most perfectly appointed establishment in Australasia for treatment by
MASSAGE, HYDRO-ELECTRIC BATHS,
VIBRATIONS, LIGHT BATHS,
and all modern methods of Light, Heat, and Electric Ireatment. Comfortably
appointed Waiting and Rest Rooms for Ladies and Gentlemen.
Patients attended at their own homes if required. WOW OPE/V. Inspection invited.
Prop.—
ELECTROTHERAPY, Ltd.
G. L. N. HARVISON, M.R.P.S., R.D.S.,
Manager.
THE HYPNOTIC EYE.
How it Fascinates and Controls
The Human Mind.
WEIRD THINGS DONE UNDER ITS
MYSTIC SPELL.
Can You Look at It Five Minutes
Without Being Hypnotised?
READ THE DIRECTIONS BELOW AND TRY.
If you wish to ascertain how susceptible you are to hypnotic influence, place yourself in an easy
sitting position and look steadily and intently at the black spot (pupil) in the centre of the eye above
for five minutes. While looking at the eye count very slowly to yourself, one, two, three, four, and so
on, to five hundred. Do not permit your eyes or mind to wander for one moment. At the end of five
minutes, if your eyelids feel heavy or tired, if you feel slightly drowsy, if you have a slight tingling
sensation in the arms or hands, if you have a peculiar sensation in the head, or if you feel during the
time an inclination to wink the eyelids, you are quite susceptible to hypnotic influence, and you should
at once learn the science for your self-protection.
i. The eye of a person who understands hypnotism is a thousand times more powerful than the cold,
lifeless picture given above. To tell bow susceptible you would be to a real hypnotic eye, multiply
the effect you perceived by 1000.
The most eminent specialists of modern times have j list written a marvellous new book on Personal
Magnetism, Hypnotism, Magnetic Healing, &c\, 10,000 copies of which are to be given away for the
benefit of the public. The book is richly illustrated by the finest half-tone engravings, showing various
positions of subject and operator.
u, By the late methods to which this book calls attention any one can learn hypnotism and acquire
wonderful magnetic power in a few days at his own home and use it on his friends and associates
entirely without their knowledge. The person affected does not dream that his mind and will have
been taken possession of and controlled by another! The most obstinate chronic diseases are speedily
cured hy this mysterious force, and bad habits banished, never to return.
Mr. Y. T. Greenwood, of 735 Brook Street, Beloit, Wis., wrote for the above book, learned hyp-
notism, and immediately cured his wife of a complication of diseases from which physicians said she
must surely die. Mrs. EffieM. Watson, of Martinsville, Ind., says : “I advise every woman in this
country to write to the New York Institute of Science and get the grand work it is giving away. It
has been of incalculable benefit to me.” Mr. John Mr. Gard, of Palmer Lake, Colo., says: “The
book is far beyond anything of the kind I have ever seen. I now use hypnotism every day of my life.
Your splendid methods of instruction enabled me to get in touch with people and wield an influence
that I did not dream it was mine to possess.”
The book will be sent absolutely free to any address. It divulges the-whole truth about the most
mysterious and useful power known to man. It reveals the true secret of all personal control; it lays
bare the mysteries of the dark ages ; it gives to man that knowledge of himself that is essential to his
health, happiness, financial and social success.. It is full of startling experiences, and makes many
wonderful disclosures regarding the mind and soul of man, the power of silent thought, the develop-
ment of will power, nerve force, and hundreds of other things of intense interest td every man and
woman who would get the most out of life, -*- , ~ -
Write for the book to-day. Remember it is free. Address a l|d. post-card to the New York
Institute of Science, Dept. 22L, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
m
i Clinical «
QA
"A '
Experiences c
y/y
General
Diseases
m
I*
M
%
wz//t RttMAN A WALLACE , //«//•
/wXUCro Mfiiul tStr&'cal tindlutt//. V,
’’/Mr '//// 7/
. UM i
HERE is an opportunity for every
Man and Woman living in Aus-
tralia. A Magnificent 600-page
Medical Work, from cover to
cover filled with sound medical advice,
rich in scientific fact and pathological
knowledge, eulogised by over 200 lead-
ing Australasian journals, and described
and admitted by many of them to be
“A WELCOME ADDITION to AUS-
TRALASIAN LITERATURE.” No
mere advertising pamphlet, no decep-
tive imitation, no “have,” but a genu-
ine medical work of rare excellence and
great usefulness. It is compiled by
those leading Specialists in Disease
associated with the Professional Staff of
TIE FREEMAN AID WALLACE
Electro-Medical Institute,
Sydney, and is the result of much of their scientific observation and experiment.
For 14 Days only this grand treatise will be sent to any address Free, Post Paid,
and persons desirous of obtaining a standard medical volume should fill m the order
below and apply at once. After vou have read it, lend it to your friends. A good
book is always an enjoyable companion. Cut out this Order Form and mail it
to us, writing your name plainly. You will receive this book by return mail.
BORDER FORM
THE SPECIALISTS,
THE REEftSAN ancB WALLACE MEiiGAL SUSTIiyTE
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney, and at Melbourne
Please send me one copy of your famous 600-page Medical Work,
“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 150 Medical Plates, as advertised in
to-day's “Bulletin.”
My name is
Address ...
(Write Plainly.)
FREE for 14 DAYS
CONTENTS OF THIS GREAT WORK.
This Book contains 31 chapters, and each chapter is anatomically and physio-
logically illustrated. The illustrations comprise no less than 150 medical subjects of
of various designs and over 30 full-page, life-size medical plates are interspersed
throughout the work. They are of the highest standard of excellence, hor the
house or the home, the remote cattle or sheep station, where medical men are tew
and medical knowledge necessary, this is the very book required. It is a whole
Library of Facts, a good friend to the suffering man. Here is a list of the chapters
and their subjects :
LIST OF 31 CHAPTERS.
m
CHAP. XVII Wounds.
CHAP. XVIII. Digestion.
CHAP. XIX ’. On Sleep.
CHAP. XX Exercise.
CHAP. XXI Old Age.
CHAP. XXII. Marriage.
CHAP. XXIII. The Microscope.
CHAP. XXIV Rupture.
CHAP. XXV Fractures,
CHAP. XXVI False Delays.
CHAP. XXVII Quackery.
CHAP. XXVIII Blood Diseases.
CHAP. XXIX Cancer.
CHAP. XXX..... . ... General Diseases.
CHAP. XXXI Electricity and Medi-
cine.
Each Chapter is Illustrated -with Plates, the Perfection of Excel-
lence. Pertaining to the Medical Subjects to Which They
Relatively Belong.
WORTH KNOWING That the SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN AND WALLACE
INSTITUTE are amongst the most eminent medical practitioners practising- in Australia to-day.
They are medical experts in the treatment and cure of grave disorders affecting
throuah any cause whatever. SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM, INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA,
BLADDER INFLAMMATIONS, KIDNEY DISORDERS, LIVER AFFECTIONS, VARICOCELE,
HYDROCELE, PROSTATIO DISORDERS, EURETHRAL DEFICIENCES, WEAKNESS IN
MEN LOSS OF VITAL POWER, and DISEASES of the CHEST ORGANS are their specialties.
They'particularly desire to treat those diseases others have aggravated by their tampering.
They are under a guarantee bond of £lOOO for the Faithful Performance of all Medical Con-
tracts Undertaken.
CORRESPONDENCE. —All letters sent
to the Institute are replied to promptly, and
are supervised by Dr. RICHARD WALLACE,
M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., our
Physieian-in-Chief, who is diplomaed from some
of the most important professional seats of
the Old and New World. He is regis-
tered by Medical Boards of Australian States,
England, and America. He is an expert in the
treatment of Men’s Serious Disorders. He is
one of a Staff of Specialists always .at the Insti-
tute.
*****
Patients who take our home treatment re-
ceive the same expert attention as if we saw
them in person. When we receive our QUES-
TION CHART filled out correctly, our Spe-
cialists are able to diagnose your case as
accurately as if you were personally present.
Our Diagnosis Charts are seriously studied by
our Specialists, and careful records made of
each, so that we understand your case as well
as if you had given us a personal call.
FACTS THAT DEFY ARGUMENT.
We are treating: thousands of eases arm uallv,
and is it not reasonable to suppose that we
understand such cases better than those who
are treating: only a. few hundred? Practice
makes perfect in any line, and it is none the
less true in the treatment of disease. You yet
the benefit of Experience when you place your
case in our hands. Do not despair. Order
your treatment at once, and let us add your
name to our long- list of cures.
*****
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind
that our treatment will not cure you, it is a
duty you owe to yourself to write to our refer-
ences, and send' an addressed envelope for
reply. We court the closest investigation. Our
Parcel Post System is a blessing to all sickjnen
living in centres far from medical
aid. Thousand of men would now be in their
' graves had we not reached and treated them
by our Parcel Post methods.
The Freeman & Wallace
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney,
Howard Freeman, Director.
Dr. Richard Wallace,' M.D., Physician-in-Cl)ief.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Women’s and Children's Diseases.
AND AT MELBOURNE.


Public Notice.
THE MISSES CLAPP are not moving into
new premises As advertised, but will con-
tinue at Monahan’s Buildings, 231 Flinders Lane
until further notice.!
Monahan’s Buildings, 231 Flinders Lane.
Amusements.
W ER EST Y’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
KVER\ EVENING, at 8, the Distinguished Comedian,
MR. ANDREW MACK,
Supported by HIS OWN COMPLETE COMPANY, in
ARRAH-NA-POGUE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
theatre royal, sy dn e Y.
* Lessee j. C. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON
LAST TWO NIGHTS of WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Superb Adelphi Melodramatic Novelty
THE MIDNIGHT MAIL,
Presented by the
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, Headed by the
Talented Australian Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN
SAT. NEXT, AUG. 12, HER SECOND TIME ON EARTH.
Box Plan at Elvy.’s. POPULAR PRICES-3s, 2s and Is.
/CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Less ee JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
THE HIT OF THE SEASON,
THE EARL AND THE GIRL,
THE BOGUS EARL—JIM CHEESE.
Hear his Latest Song— BONDI J BONE I !
THE EARL AND THE GIRL.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Prices, Box Plan, Day Sale as Usual. Eo Early Doors.
! Amusements.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
THE LAST TWO WEEKS of
THE GREAT THURSTON,
The World’s Master Fascinating’ Magician.
PRICES 35., 25., Is. 6d., and Is. No Early Doors.
Plan at Paling’s, A. COWAN, Manager.
HUGO HEERMANN,
VIRTUOSO OF THE VIOLIN.
TWO FAREWELL CONCERTS IN SYDNEY
(Under Direction of John H. Tait).
ONLY TWO CONCERTS.
THURSDAY, AUG. 10, at 8. SATURDAY, AUG. 12, at 3.
(The Professor leaves for New Zealand by “ Warrimoo,"
on Saturday.)
SATURDAY
Mendelssohn’s Concerto
Brahm’s Concerto in D
Meistersinger Paraphrase
With Full
Orchestra.
HUGO HEERMANN,
W. A. LAVER,
PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is,
At Paling’s.
EMIL HEERMANN,
HENRI STAELL.
H. N. SOUTHWELL,
Manager.
LAURANCE PHILLIP,
THE EMINENT PIANIST,
will give a Concert in
Y.M.C.A. HALL, SYDNEY,
THURSDAY, 24th AUGUST, at 8 O’CLOCK,
Assisted by Miss Jean Macliircan, Mr. William B
„ Beattie and Mr. J. Edward Sykes.
PRICES—3s 25,, is. H. N. SOUTHWELL,
1 lan at 1 ahng- s. Concert Director.
THEATRE, SY D N E Y.
FIRST PRODUCTION by the
GREAT AMERICAN THEATRESCOPE
of the largest and most amazingly animated subject
yet shown, A TRIP TO THE SUN.
a from the Alhambra Theatre, London.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, LAST 7 NIGHTS,
rust Exhibition of the Company’s New American Sub.
Jl;C D t DT r^ ve . d c d^ -ecfc from their New York agents.
1 TClOiio AS USUAL.
F L 1 T E HALL, SYDNEY
(Late Quong Tart’s Premises, Q.V. Markets).
LINGARD’S
AN IDEAL PALACE OF AMUSEMENT,
and A MARVELLOUS EXHIBITION,
m Conjunction with the
ROYAL CORONATION WAXWORKS,
, „_ England and America.
6 COMPLETE SHOWS IN ONE 6
OPEN DAILY FROM MORNING TILL EVENING.
TLY° L 1 . TH E A SYDNEY
S ?} e , rprv P ''!f c t'° 1 r l * Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of MR. CEO. STILLWELL.
Ai THE xhc ZA ifin S ™°- MIS 3 FLORENCE CH4LLIS.
Also, MODERN Milo, and CRUIKSHANK, THE
CARICATURIST. FREDA NIEMANN
DAINTY BABY COOPER. J. W. WINTON and M'CINTY
Emphatic Success of MR. LEO. DRYDEN
80331 E WYLDMAN and Miss
CLARICE DUDLEBCH. Also Mr IRVINH qayi fo
harry ROCHFORT, HARRY’HART.FRANKrYogkE.
O P « E i R i? HOUSE, MELSOURN E.
&ole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
FRANK LEON, World’s Champion Dancer.
KARA, World’s Greatest Juggler.
ALICE GUERRA, French and Spanish Soubrette.
KELLY & AGNES, Sketch Artists.
McAULEY SISTERS, Comedy Sketch Duo.
OHAS. DIAMOND. MISS BEATRICE, Expert Musicians.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of WOMAN AND WINE.
SATURDAY, AUG. 12, BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Up-to-Date Russian-Japanese War Drama
BESIEGED IN PORT ARTHUR.
KW PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
C. SIMONSENS, Manager.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOUrTme
Lessee .. .. Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
Sub-Lessees & Managers .. Messrs. Brough & Flemming.
THURSDAY, AUG. 10, FRIDAY, AUG. 11 BEAIITV
AND THE BARGE. SATURDAY, AUGUST 12
THE BROUGH-FLEMMINC COMEDY COMPANY in
QUALITY street
For the First Time in Melbourne.
BOX PLAN at Glen’s, Menzies’; and The Grand
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 pm!
§~| ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE GONDOLIERS
SATURDAY NEXT, AUG. 12, Mr. J. C. Williamson’s
GILBERT & SULLIVAN’S REPERTOIRE COMPANY in
the PIRATES OF PENZANCE
(3 Nights Only).
WEDNESDAY, AUG. 16, THE MIKADO (3 Nights Only).
PI’ICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ ? ome . as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.•
m
m
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by ali Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN marie by Macniven & Cameron Ltd is
separately examined by experienced hands
and any found defective are discarded. ’
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’ :
m
FaP ,NFANTS > INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BNGERS FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &C., EVERYWHERE.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
Coppabella shares—“copper-bellies,” as they
are known in the Stock Exchange ring—have furnished
nice profits to a hungering crowd of spec, sellers and
their jackals. Market bump, which shot shares in Mel-
bourne up to £24, started the game. It needed resolution
to face the bulls, as Adelaide had got into the swing of
the gamble. Still, one or two lion-hearted souls who
punch anything waded in hard. For two or three davs it
was a toss-up whc would win, but on Thursday and
kiiday the current of selling set with the 'bears,
-the gamble represents the usual fate of the public when
it rushes in to get rich on an unproved mine. A Queen-
street crowd that took up a big - block of shares because
it believed the show was worth prospecting did strenuous
bulling, but was overcome by weight of metal brought
to bear by its antagonists. It may not all be lost
ground, for some of the wise men" of Gotham mav
learn that mines, like ladies, are ticklish things to
handle. A bull market also needs a lot of propping
unless the scrip is locked up to prevent leakage
or unless indiscriminate profit-taking can be prevented!
there was plenty-of room for a big bear nip, but the
Hackenschnudt of the crowd was nervous. As for the
~ ;°!> l ^l je ' itself, in the Tumberumba district of
iN.o. W., all that can be said is that it has g*ood prospects
but, sp far, absolutely nothing- more, and touching - it is
gambling - . °
* * * *
Obit., at Gundagai (N.S.W.) last week Charles
Hunt, aged 79 years. Mr. Hunt was the first man to
sink a shaft on the Snowy River Dig-gings.
* * * *
Wheal Dorey, Daylesford (Vic.), is one of the
shows , that wants cash, so Bull is to be applied to for it
probably because he has struck a div. or two in the
Victorian Cornish, floated by the Fields on the strength
of the mine s has-been record. Wheal Dorey’s chairman
softests that he should try to get Bull to plank down
■£16,000 for the mine. This is modest, considerim* -
co. s bank balance at the last half-yearly audit
was only about £125, and there seems to be no
escape from calls. If the £16,000 is to be in paid-
ups it won’t matter so much ; but he would be
regarded as a bold man who ventured to ask Victorians
fori 'lO paid-ups in any co. to work the Wheal Dorey.
Accoruiiig to last half-yearly report, stone at 300 ft. had
not been found—faulted out of sight. Crosscut off shaft
on north end of lease had opened up merely a few leaders
A ton of decent stone was got, probably off the indicator!
11ns ls-rich, but is not enough to make a mine. In the
main shaft drive, at 230 ft, there is a fair body of stone :
but it wants gold, and that is just the complaint with
most of the Daylesford mines outside the Cornish
* * * *
Black Horse, Egerton (Vic.), has a splendid
history, a grand overdraft, and a splendid lot of call-pay-
mg shareholders. But- a few up-to-date ideas instilled
into the heads of the directors wouldn’t be out of place
hirst, it should get its surveys checked bv a geologist’-
next it should consider the propriety of testing its ground
by means of the diamond drill; and it should have its
Pi7u . ov erhauled by a first-class mechanical engineer
What is bothering co. is to find the Sister Rose lode lost
in the Egerton mine through heavy faulting. This is
where the geological surveyor should come in, and if his
work was backed by diamond-drill boring, a lot of costlv
driving and crosscutting might be saved.
* * * *
Morse’s Creek dredge, Bright (Vic.), has sur-
prised the locals by the productiveness of its operations
Last six months it put through 130,000 cub. yards for
782J0z., or roughly 2fgr. per cub. yard. Yet on this
average profits worked out at the rate of 54 per cent, per
annum-. Working expenses were £52 per week. Does
this include renewals and writing off for the heavy wear
and tear to which all dredges are subject ? Irrespective of
that, the record is a capital one.
* * * *
Rathscar, Maryborough (Vic.), is a little show
that is having a good deal of quiet puffing. Shoots of
stone make very small at first, then widen, and then pinch
out, leaving only a track. Driving on this, so far, has led
to other shoots being picked up. Like majority of Vic-
tonan little mines, a small trial lot of half-ounce quartz
and about 200 ft. of driving justifies the buying of a bat-
tery. Looked at critically, the property hasn’t shed its
milk teeth. It wants deeper sinking and more driving
before crushing can proceed on a decent scale.
* * * *
Great Boulder, Kalgoorlie, continues to look
well in south drive at 1900 ft. For 150 ft. lode has varied
from 10ft. to 12ft. wide, worth from 20dwt. to 47dwt.
This is one of the best developments in mine belowl2 level’
Hamilton shaft (north end) is now fully equipped but so
far work at 800 ft. and 1000 ft. has not disclosed any value
Co. has spent an enormous amount on this shaft, which
will . chiefly benefit Boulder No. 1 and West Boulder.
Sinking Hamilton shaft has been renewed to search for
the lode pierced by drill nearly two years ago, and which
assayed 25dwt. for 10ft. wide. This was at a vertical
depth of 1335 ft. Edwards shaft (south end) is also being
sunk below 1200 ft., at which depth it has been hung up
for years. Co. has strong ore reserves ; also 400,000 tons
of old tailings, valued at 3dwt.’ Its, treatment costs
pan out at 145., which is higher than those of some of its
neighbors’.
* * * *
North White Feather, Kanowna (W.A.), is in a
much improved position. At 500 ft. reef has already been
driven on about 280 ft. and averages 21dwt. for a width of
Sift. At 400 ft. shoot was 400 ft. long, 4ft. wide, and worth
25dwt., While at 300 ft. it was 250 ft. long, and worth only
12dwt. for lOin. wide. Nearer the surface it was very
poor. Above 300 ft. mine is worked out, but at 400 ft a
good block of ore. still remains, while at 500 ft. no stoping
.has been done. Co. has recently been making
■profits of between £l5OO and £2OOO monthly, and
.after paying off liabilities, is £6OOO to the good. Recent
I'eport said that mining and milling costs had been
reduced to 19s. 7d. per ton, but manager.’s figures pan out
.-at about 405., and this gives profits stated above. Co. is
in 400,000 shares, and is working same reef as W. F. Main
jßeefs; and, under circumstances, scrip cannot be
recommended, even on improved position.
*** ■ „
Kalgoorlie Amalgamated, a combination of
some half-dozen wild-cats, is again at the end of its
tether, after a life of 3* years. New co. is to
be in 1,200,000 shares of 3s. each, with a Is. assessment
Scheme appears rotten and concern ridiculously over!
capitalised. No ore is in sight, and lodes are patchv
erratic, and mostly barren. There is no chance even of
getting out on a flutter with so many shares
* * * *
Golden Pole (W.A.) continues erratic. Mine
has always been a puzzle, as reef twists about in a most
peculiar way, and all others anywhere in vicinity have cut
out, usually at or about 400 ft. What has increased sus-
picion is that work at 400 ft. was suspended for months on
one plea or another. It is a cute crowd that controls the
concern. 00. is at present paying monthly divs. of 9d.
and, after September, when tailings treatment starts, Is!
is predicted. But at no time has it had much more than
12 months’ reserves in sight. Only thing in favor of co.
is that mine has always been open to inspection, but, till
lately, no inspection at 400 ft. was possible, and manager
says he has still 50ft. to go to reach reef. °
* * * *
estralia Mt. Morgans had a bad year in 1904
.only cleared £21,900, all in the first six months’
i 'Luring current year position has been going from bad to
worse,, and ore has gradually dropped from a value of 30s
a -ton till it has averaged only 14s. 6d. for past two
returns. If 7dwt. ore didn’t pay exes., it is certain 3Adwt
must show a heavy loss. A. E. Morgans argues that'nnne
can work out its own redemption, but Manager Nicholson
of Ivanhoe, who reported on property, is of different
opinion, and suggests raising money to expedite deve-
lopments, and running half the mill only. A E
Morgans had a good deal of luck with the mine, but
other of his mining ventures in W.A. have Droved a frost
and Nicholson’s opinion will carry more weight.
* * * *
All manager Roberts’ predictions regard in «■ con-
tinuity of Oroya shoot in Associated ground have been
fulfilled, and length now proved is 950 ft. Shoot is as it
wa f “ other mines, a pipe ranging up to 70ft. in width
and 50ft. in depth. Values are given as Ito 3oz but
rich telluride veins run through it. Lode is trending'
south-west, and, opposite Tetley’s shaft, is about 250 ft
east. If it continues this trend it will make through
Australia lease and give Associated a very long stretch of
it. Possibilities of mine are very great.
Oroya-Brown Hill is drawing bulk of its ore from
Oroya South block, and sweetening- results from Oroya
North block. Old Brown Hill is practically depleted
which show's how cute Bewick, Moreing and Co. were
in bringing about amalgamation. At end of last year ore
reserves in Oroya shoot W'ere estimated at 78,000 tons
worth 40z., and of this a very considerable portion must
have since been treated. Great efforts are being made to
force output since H. A. Shipman took charge but
Shipman is booked for ’Murka in October. Since Asso-
ciated cut continuation of Oroya shoot, both Shipman and
Loring have come to conclusion that Oroya-Brown Hill
has been working- too far west at south end of property
and so got into a blank. Efforts are now being- made to*
Jocate shoot to the east, and, if located, life of mine as a
high-grade proposition will be prolonged.
* * » »
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), continues to
plod along with a management cost of about £65 a week
and an output of, say, £4OO a month. Co. must be getting
further behind every day. Quite as many tributors are
. "° rk at Hannan's Reward and turning out from 200
to 300 oz. monthly, yet supervision amounts to less than
half Queen Margaret’s figures ; and, instead of falling
behind, that co. is gradually building up a reserve for
prospecting.
* * * *
Charters Towers (Q.) owns about 60 mining
co. s, of which three are regular and two occasional divi-
de u Pi n- els ' If the field w'ould adopt modern methods
of handling and reducing ores several low-grade shows
vvould go from the call to the div. list. It is not “So-
cialistic legislation ” that prevents people from investing •
its the fact that stone going 14dw't. will hardly cover costs.'
Instance Marshall’s Queen : 353 tons gave 1440 z. ; concen-
trates a.nd residues bring the value to £735 9s. 9d., equal
to £2 Is. fed. a ton. A call of 3d. was made on this.
Bnlhant Block for June crushed 401 tons for 4560 z.,
worth £1552. Usual three weeks clean up at the cyanide
works produced bullion valued at £1753. This w'as above
the average ; no Towers co. knows what the crushing
will go until the tclean-up. Last fortnightly run was 204
tons for 1310 z., worth £475. Yet this co., with a reef
averaging 2ft., and a mill of its own, is a most niggardly
div.-payer. as J
* * * *
Mills United, Charters Towers, for a fortnight
crushed 546 tons for 1940 z., worth £670; concentrates
and residues, £729. A painful drop compared with the
previous 491 tons for 2280 z., with £llll in concentrates
and residues. Mine is looking well; yet no explanation
18 KW®.®* falling off in returns. Buyers are even
a rlse 6d. No. 10 east is through
the slide, and proves that the stone lives, although poor
as yet, from No. 7 down. No. 10 east will open up a
small area of ground before the boundary is reached-
anything; below this level'will hardly be worth counting'
as the slide is going east, taking the good stone out of the
lease. The new air compressor is in position, and mav
assist development work, of which there is a lot to do
before divs. are reached.
* * *
Investor: Concern is in a bad way, has shown
no profits so far, and is making but little progress
if._ Har. .- Shows 5J per c«nt. on investment at present
price ; but there’s a very small market for the stock and
it you wanted to realise, you probably wouldn’t be able to.
....Country Sub. : Don’t recommend any mining stock
whatever as an investment Investor (another of them) :
Keep off tin, unless you’ve got something to float.
* * * *
While the Water Bill was before the Victorian
Assembly, Minister Swinburne threw some figures at the
House that ought, but for the hide of the average land-
owner, to settle the question out of hand. He°quoted
statistics of five trusts which have become so hopelessly
insolvent that three have been taken over by the State
and the others are in process of going—Loddon United!
Carrum, Marquis Hill, Cohuna and Macorna. Altogether
tnese cormorants had £231,750 advanced to them, and
£193,140 of principal and accumulated interest has since
been written off as hopeless. Notwithstanding this ease-
ment of their alleged burden they have got so far in
arrears again as to owe £16,813 for outstanding interest
and redemption. But some of them made a valiant effort
P° - honest. Cohuna paid £512 towards its total
indebtedness of £151,213. Carrum paid £5O and Marquis
Mill a whole £2. It must have caused a tremendous
wrench to put aside that £2 ! Marquis Hill Trust owed
£14,477, was forgiven £9076, and then let its interest bill
get m arrears £s933—but it once put aside a whole 40s
towards being honest. It is a wonderful record, that of
these anti-Socialistic farmers, but more than direct State
control is wanted. Cells and a long, steady course of
bread and water are also necessary.
* * * *
During the discussion, by Vic. Parliament, of
the supplementary estimates, Mr. D. O. M’Grath, the re-
presentative of Grenville, made a few' remarks that are
well worth noticing. M'Grath is, in spite of his name, a
silent member, and his speech only occupied four
minutes . In Ballarat East two leases held by Pearce
Brothers were taken up in 1890 for 15 years, and would
have expired this year... The North Woah Hawp mine
had paid Pearce and some other gentleman £19,000 in
royalty. The New Normanby had paid them £14,000.
When he made inquiries at the Mines Department he
found that those gentlemen had been clever enough to
surrender their leases two years ago, and got them
renewed. He (M'Grath) wished to know if anythin"-
couid be done, or whether this state of things was to be
suffered for another 13 years. He might also mention*
that the South Star had paid the Guiding Star £25,000
.royalty, and the Star of the East had paid them £50,000
royalty... In Ballarat East they had paid £200,000 in
royalty, not to landowners, but simply to leaseholders
who were purely shepherding.” A strong Minister of
Mines is needed to put in a full day in his shirt sleeves
cancelling misused leases.
Premier Bent proposed to do a lot of good work
with his surplus. Among other things, £147,000 is to go
towards replacing trust funds borrowed in previous years *
£lll,OOO to pay for old railway rolling stock and railway
stores bought out of loans, and worn out in bygone years
without the debt on them being paid off ; £22,000 for new
railway works ; £3OOO for a hospital for epileptics ; £4O 000
towards the much-needed new lunatic asylums and’in-
ebnates’ home ; £20,000 to replace money cadged from
the licensing fund by a previous Treasurer who wanted to
make a surplus ; £3OOO for hospitals ; £25,000 for the re-
pair of the dreadfully neglected State schools; £27,000
for land purchases and land reclamation ; and a multitude
of small sums for bridges, dredges, &c. If Bent can raise
ano *'., er , sur Pj us bke this one, and — having wiped off this
multitude of small arrears—start railway construction
again, but this time out of revenue, it will be a splendid
continuation of the good work he has commenced.
AT POVERTY POINT.
iliss Una Bourne, the gifted, unassertive young Mel-
Dourne pianiste, is to have a complimentary concert at
J e j Vn Hall the night before she leaves for Europe,
nursday, August 24th, will be the date of Miss Una’s
send-off.”
, *. n needless explanation:—“Fairplay” talks)
nrough his hat when he confers the title of “ musician ” |
on somebody who can’t play, sing, conduct, or compose— I
on some stale pedant who can but teach counterpoint,
ugue, and harmony (out of text-books), and give lec-
tmetteson Incidents in the Lives of Sober Musicians.”
t n a P er * on knows the “ construction of music ”so
profoundly that he can’t write it, or play it, or utilise it by
putting it into vulgar sound and common practice, he
niay be a Stand proper person to teach others not to do
likewise— i.e., though he is not a musician he may be an
excellent University Professor. And Petersen is simply
tne typical Prof.—an uninspired exponent of the plati-
.Under the Marshall Hall regime the music section
01 j * shop ’ was full of life and vigor and enthusiasm,
and students wanted to Do something, to hear and play
and talk and make music all day long. Now the Coii-
servatorium, wherein music is regarded as a shining
a istraction and a matter of the manual, has become as
auu and antediluvian as the geological museum. Peter-
sen doesn t “ roar ” or “bound”—he crushes you with a
slab of counterpoint, or tells you Mozart produced his
Dos “ C u S II 1 reen socks. Petersen makes music a dead
art .Marshall Hall makes it alive and kicking. One is a
Professor, the other a musician—that’s the main differ-
ence between them.
„ a , u Ya " a ! ) * : An air of mystery apparently envelops
the Modern Milo ” —if nothing eise does. Some music-
nan patrons imagine that she is a continental beauty who
goes about in draughty clothes to earn her salary ; others
tlunk she hails from the Land of Trusts ; and, again,
there are others who are under the impression that the
ever-so-lightly-clad lady is English. All are off the right
track. The living statue is an Australian girl, Pansv
Montague, and was one of George Musgrove’s show girls
during his last and not-over-sucoessful comic opera season
here. Speaking from memory, her first appearance dates
Dack eight years ago—perhaps longer—when she and two
sisters graced the footlights at the old Alexandra in
Melbourne, the famous Dan Barry being then lessee.
“0.K.”: Thoughtfully considered, the strength of the
situations in ‘ The Walls of Jericho ” appears to be all on
the surface, as in “ Magda ” and other plays'whfere'the
principal speaker is at war with the surrounding order of
things. You don’t get cause and effect as in “Mrs.
ianqueray.’ You get dramatic effect achieved bv arti-
hcial means. Accepting the two men from Queensland
as possible arnvals in the London “ smart set,” one might
call the situations realistic. But the men, not being
snobs, are impossible arrivals. The hero, Jack Frobisher,
could never have attached himself to a clique of utterly
uncongenial acquaintances in the first instance. He isn’t
built that way. As for his quiet-spoken friend, Hankey
Bannister, he comes into the “ set ” on the understanding-
that he is a guileless, middle-aged roamer with £40,000 a
year. Both men are haters of shams, and both of them
hawe deliberately chosen to hobnob with supercilious
johnnies and Gwendolines as though they had never
heard of any part of London outside of Mayfair where rich
men can go and get married. A pair of brainy, honest,
enterprising, matured bachelors suddenly transformed
into the silliest of parvenus—“ on their own’’—not
dragged into Society by their wives and daughters. Such
men only exist in fiction.-
Miss Unie Russell, playing juvenile lead with the
Knight-Jeffries co., talks of leaving the stage in a month
or two, when her engagement with Williamson terminates.
JLne work and the continual travelling- are too much for
her._ Tis a pity, for Unie shaped remarkably well for a
beginner, and her Stephanus, in “ The Sign of the Gross,”
was something of a little masterpiece. But, after all,
slight, fair girls of her type can never hope to star with
■my great success. The heroine of most plays stands sft.
bin. at least, and is usually a haughty damsel of com-
manding mien, at least once in every performance.
When a very small girl repudiates a very tall villain, the
gallery is apt to laugh.
1 lora Graupner is sometimes seen abroad in Melbourne
these times, pretty much her old self physically,
i- Nance H’Heil never before cut so fine a figure as
she did in the last act of “Marie Antoinette” at Her
Majesty s, Melbourne, the other week. As the fallen
queen, white-haired, pale-faced, dressed in a simple
cream frock, with a band of the same color across her
whited locks, she looked by far the most handsome
creature I have seen -on the Australian stage during
-.0 years. « Nance’s figure is now finely proportioned, and
her statuesque Marie was as nicely balanced as a sculptor’s
art could desire. Of the acting—aids,! If the star had a
say in selecting her people, she deserves to be judged bv
the company she keeps j and'she is.
Beatrice Day’s little misadventure with the piano in
, le U ' a ’U °I Jericho” at Melbourne Princess (the
thm S went oh playing after she had risen and
left it), recalls a similar trouble that happened to Fax
when he was playing Svengali in Melbourne. The instru-
ment played on after be had risen, and Fax gazed at it
with concentrated ferocity. “My God, Svengali,” said
lau.y, m well-simulated amazement, “ you have hypno-
tised the piano.”


miffli
0
/
m
m
\\
%
//.
\
V)
u
m
I
ml
V
THE best thing that cah be said about a Watch is, “ iVs aft
T Honest Watch.” It tells you the correct tlme always you
never find It mislead you. If you wantjustsuchawatch we cart
recommend for your perusal our «-page JooWet of’ JJhest
Watches, prices for which range from t4/6 to £7O. We will be
pleased to post a copy tb any Who will make the request. We
mention on this page half-a-dozen dependable Watcheg any of
which we will send free and Safe by post, together with our
written guarantee, bn receipt of remittance. ORD-R TO-DAY.
m
4/2 GEORG £f 5T Sydney
m
For the Average Mafi
rn find out special Make of
ticularlV suited-. The price is eomfortablyj Within toataach
while the Watch is neat, and handsome ni appearance.
The movement is jewelled; |-plate, With exposed win m e
Wheels; Brequet spring',
and compensation balance.
The winding is keyless,
and the cases &re of the
Hunting style, made of
Hall-Marked Solid Silver.
We guarantee and sell this
Watch for
m
A Three-Quarter Plate
English Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the X^^fldl^theTa^wTtha
WeoffS »£«?“?,,’,K& Huntmg, dwelled,
Brequet Sprang, Com-
pensation Balance, En-
glish Lever Watch, with
guarantee, for
m
A Special Dust
Protected Wateh
a,nd one that hits met With general Approval, is the
sior ” This is ah old favorite of Ours, but lately \\j) have
Completed important improvements, including the addition
Of a hill dust cap-, which Completely COverS the Works and
excludes all ahd dahip,. It is a toan’S Watch, fully
fewelled, S-plhte htoVement, Erequet Spring Compensation
Balance iihd has full Hhnting Solid Silvet Cases. A
Splendid Country
Watch is the Exeel-
SiOr English L'e vCh,
ahd We post it to-
gether with our war-
ranty, for
?/ma^rsprsc>:vs
For the Woman who
takes note Of time
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise the
purchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Hold
Case jointed, Waltham Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeping, and were made especially to our order by the
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement
and winding work, etc., is
on the same system as the
men’s size. We will post
one free with guarantee
on receipt of
I
An Ideal Lady’s Watch
is our IB Jewel American Waltham Keyless Lever m its-
18ct Gold, Engraved, Hunting Cases, Manufactured to
suit the AustralL clto.te, it &. ell the. known
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, ahd is fit
with best Compensation Balance and Safety Hair Sp g*
It is a High-Grade Watch in
every way, and will give
unequalled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
m
Get a Gold Watch now
Don‘t put it ofl until possession giVeS jou no ,1®
it now ivhbri you would rhally find satisfaction and dfeiignt
„"t wTUnshpply.nlfct' GoHl’illed (on»»» ojb ’tell
it is not Solid 43-old through, and through) Watch with ft
guarantee by the Walthaifi Watch Co. that the case wdl
wear And lbok well for five and twenty yeatS. rhe toot e-
ment is a fine f-plate Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Spring Waltham.
No mail need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer this fexceptiori-
ftl one, with full
case and movement
guarantee, for
©
PLEASURE*? PROFIT.
Cyphers incubators.
’T'HESE world-renowned INCUBATORS are worked on
1 a new principle. The Regulator is simply perfect
and cannot get out of order. Being worked on the Hot
Air principle, they have no tanks to leak. They are self-
ventilated, and are fully guaranteed to bring out livelj
and healthy chicks and ducklings. Send for circular.
J. & A. BOYES, "HSf
241-243 Elizabeth-street, flelbourne.
m
“It is able to support
Life.” — Lancet.
ONE CUP OF
PLASMON
COCOA
Contains irore nourishment than
10 cups of any ordinary cocoa.
Absolutely free from
Chemicals,
JABORINE
HAIR TONIC.
The Finest Preparation ever Introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 2/6, Posted 2/9. give it a trial.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
‘•GRAND PRIX” PARIS 1900.
The Highest Possible Award.
JOSEPH GILLOTT’S
PENS.
Highest Quality, and Having Greatest
Durability, are therefore
CHEAPEST.
BOOKS T SIR ROBERT
m
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Dam ail-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Gd. Ned Donnelly sAr
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings,! .
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Mol
FlanderS, a rare book by DeFoe, Is posted. Mari
PnßFTiLi’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All zoia.s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, I awokit®
Reciter Is each posted. Bell s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason s low
to Train the Horse, lsGd. Passion s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ;P°st,ls3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The ® ’s T ricks
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver s IRlcks
and Diversions with Hards, lllus. Is. Bbautys
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk Is Gd. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is Gd posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK*’*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
prists Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sami questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician, Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concermng-niar-
riasre which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
womenboth in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life m its
fußestsense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers’. The new 20th Century edition just arrived
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
~2 M
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Braking, Gas-Pitting, etc,, IS 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d, Camille, Is
post. How to Yamp on Piano, Is, Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d,
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter, Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s od.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Ijjrtl Established 20 1 eats.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
= ♦ —-
Write lor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
'Seat Anywhere for the Asking .
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, is
posted. New Teicks with Cards* Is. Sappho, genuine*
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr; Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle* 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy* Is*
Practical Palmistry, Is* Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. NeW Book of Dreams* Is posted*
All About Incubators* Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry*
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted*
Toxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s* Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G* W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar*
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
hound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete) Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
5s Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
-16 Park Street, Sydney
NICOLE UNIVERSAL RECORDS
NICOLEPHONES
Two Special Instruments!
“ The Colonial ” and
“ The New Standard.”
g®- ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application. ""Wl
IV. G. KING, So,c A ® ent > 316 GEOHCE ST.,
SYDNEY .
m
ROTHWELL’S Jg
ONLY ADDRESS—
Edward St., Brisbane.
Send for Samples of our
SPECIAL STATION SHIRTS
27/6 the half-dozen,
to order, post paid. [1
THE LAST OF SIX
Price 6d. Post Free.


Itan” Writes:—
< s uefen sland the Chines*! must be fdceA In
the most northern sugar districts they are now produc-
ing one third; Of the sugar, and arte iricreasing their
operations as rapidly as they cari secure leases of land.
A handful of wealthy merchants finance their country-
men, and work the properties on the Shares system. In
not a few cases they have purchased the iand right out
m W.Wopkftt Cairiis they own 1500 acres, arid it is esti-
mated they will, gather hi a cheque from the C.S.R Co
tor £25,000 for it.
jmall the towns in the ter north they keep most of the
retail stores and commission agencies, and grow most of
tie bananas sent to the southern States. One boss
Chow is quite sympathetic with the white farmers,
who lament the prospective loss of Tommy Tanna’
and has offered to bring from the Northern Territory at
short notice 5000 of his yellow countrymen. This helps
to bear out the assertion that the many miles of unpro-
tected coast in the North are used to import contingents
yellow material) brought down in Chinese junks.
.1 1 11 e Ghpw has also a firm hold of the maize industry at
Atherton, which helps to feed .Ohiyagoel Of ‘this
as C mw rU V a «t and 30 > 000 acres have been alienated at
as low as 2s. 6d. per acre. About 8000 acres have been
’ and al l < i nearly all under lease to Chinese who
make i.p more than one-third the population of th it part
t tl , IeSC peoplcare naturalised. This has
to be remembered when tliey are being dealt with. To
excise their cane out of existence would merely turn
t.ien- energies into other channels or drive them into
f, r,n Sta « teS Vn JI ; St fu fchey have been attracted to N.Q.
11 0111 the South by the sugar industry. v
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
MORRIS’S^
"i IMPERIAL” IFntperial
©intment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet tabic
complete without it. Pots 2/-
Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melb."
chemists & stores.
7m
“It is able to support
Life.’’ — Lancet .
ONE CUP OF
'PLASM ON
COCOA
Contains in ore nourishment thab
viO cups bt any ordinary cocoa.
bsoliitely free front
Chemicals,
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion
Biliousness and
Acidity.
Allays Feverish Conditions due
to the Vaccination and
Teething of infants.
SOLO THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Flectric Treatment.
NOT BEING
A BELT
it will not burn or blister the
skin— There Is nothing to
wear round the body to
roster germs- It is sure,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
** of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
HUM
for my new book (illustrated) “Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and wha*- you want
to know. POSTED FREE. *
SURGEON LANGSTON, M E R „ g c 5
129 ? C0LL1NS ST, MELBOURNE.
DEAFNESS CURED,
m
THE AUROPHONE .
the latest and most
Scientific Discovery for
the RELIEF and CURE of DEAFNESS and HEAD
JJOISES. Descriptive Pamphlet sent Free. Address :
THE AUROPHONE CO.,
JU Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
c. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seveii
Pfi*e Medalr
m
m
Works: Birmingham, England
These series of
Pen 9 neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.o;ting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box;
V,v
L
ime
ce
The basis of which is “ Montserrat " Lime-Fruit Juice.
The Best amd Cheapest Sauce.
AGBNTS—fL\ l iott Brbs. Ltd., J. Connell & Co.,
D. Cohen & Oo. ( Newcastle.
Sydney.
m
Every SuEEEREK. from Weakness, Nervousness, Loss of Vigor or Vitality
?umrf yTfO t b il S( Senlle De cay, Weak or Lame Back, Rheumatism, Sciatica’
Lumbago, Indigestion, Constipation, Flatulency, Dyspepsia Prolapsus’
Uvef * a » d Kidney y Tro y ubßs P , to knowSt
Electricity will speedily and permanently cure all such ailments.
YOU WHO WANT HEALTH and STRENGTH!
WHY NOT TRY ELECTRICITY?
JLA™ 1 ? fufeyou! We never meet with disappointments in our
fShrH a P ? lyln f - !*.* • Gellume fesults are obtained in every case. Even
the , first appdcatiOn you feel the glowing,
exhilarating effect of its influence. A gentle cur-
rent is poured into your body each night while you
sleep that must arouse the dormant functions, and
give new life and energy to youf entire system.
JOhR Wes^Ey, in his “ Primitive Physic,” says;
“ ust , aver ’ from Personal knowledge-
ill h d on a thousand experiments, to be far superior to
all other medicines I have known, I mean Klectricitv T .
ft those who are well-wishers to maiikhid To mlkeTun
nroof of this. Certainly it comes the nearest to a Universal Medicine
of ahy yet known to the world.” medicine
i • DR< McLAUqHLIN’S . ,
ELECTRIC BELT
Sd
V-
; s * e onl y appliance that can give you the Electricity needed in your body
to ensure Health and Strength, and the only method that can drive Pains
Aches, and Nervousness from the system. ’
Further Evidence of its Merit.
Mr. L. LEPAUL, of Dannevirke, N.Z., who suffered from Rheumatism and
Sciatica, writes:—
Dear Sirsl take the liberty of writing- to you regarding the Electric Belt that I pur-
chased from you about two months ago. p r
I wish to inform you that it has given entire satisfaction, and I feel quite a different
off " in ln f^f US Tn ff 'm 1 'll 11 COn n l !J Ue rearing it for another month, and then will knock it
oiT in fact, I could pretty well do without it now
15 y ears * was unable to wash my face with my right hand ; now, since wearing
I’i.™ use it as well as the left one. I will always be pleased to recommend it to
anyone suffering as I have suffered, and I am a living- testimonial to its efficiency.
Everyone who ever used it recommends it,
because it is honest. it does great work,
find those whom it has cured are all
the more grateful because it costs
so little.
PROLAPSUS and INFAMMATICN.
Tub Dr. McLaughlin Co. OAKEY CREEK > N ‘ S ' VV -
ha I D on l mi r ?^, l Mo aVe i5 lUCh P leasure in informing you of the wonderful effect your Belt
old , M i'. s - vs ™ was run down for several years, and I have paid enough for
h t ] during the last ten years to buy at least six of your High-Grade Belts,
but g-ot no benefit whatever. Words fail to express mv satisfaction, and I feel it a great
numerous inquiries which I have received respecting- the nferits
vour success I, , CpntmUe to recommend it to all sufferers. With best wishes for
your success, 1 remain, Yours very truly, (Mis.) M. A. LIGHT.
FREE BOOK AND ADVICE!
if' A ,!' P , I : ICS ? ON we w , in 8011,1 y° u our Grand Free Book on Electricity.
PfS es » nd 50 illustrations, showing how we apply this Grand
d r SC / lbeS the man y ailments that it will cure. It also gives
much Valuable Information and Advice to both Men and Women Re-
member, this Book is FREE rand WE PAY POSTAGE to any address.
Our S P®® i^® t * s ln attendance. Dally, from 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m,, for
the benefit of those who can call for FREE! ADVICE
SPECIAL NOTICE. We have a most complete system of Home
. Treatment, and you can now be treated as
well tn your own home as if you visited our Specialist. We have cured
readTof d“
the dr. mclaughun co.,
lOOW. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
N.Z. Office-
-64 Willis Street, Wellington.
And at 167 E. Swanston Street, Melbourne
90 William Street, Perth, W.A.
William Charles Crawford.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘Stockport R-medv’
for Coughs and Colda. Of 38 years’ proven efficacy. '
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
* LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘Stockport Remedy’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 38 years’ proven efficacy
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, Ac. '
COAGULINE.
Transparent Cement
for broken articles.
.‘LiNUM CARTHARTICUM PILLS’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay's
CoiUpound Essence of Linseed, fof Coughs and Colds,
WHAT IS CATARRH?
DEDICATOR.
m
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining- membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is riot
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
hose to the htad, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive’
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
eonsuinption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs’
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever. La Grippe, etc.
Price, complete With 4 months’
treatnierit by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co.. 220-231 Collins-fit., Melbourne.
m
%
rt
r f.
%
m
m
m
DorCt
waste time in
experimen ting .
Thirty Years *
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
fridge
£ungTonre
to be the WORLD'S CURe\
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles .
[t can ba obtained from
any Chemist or E tore,
and Saves Many
Lives.
m
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
QIJMR’S
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English Cute for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during’ their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lsd. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any, Chemist or -Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
RYKEI
DEAF
By using the Wilson Com*
mon Sense -Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
tressing head noises writ#
for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’suffering’. Ad-
dress —Star Novelty Co.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melb.


Thus Prof. A. W. Ward : “ A peculiar danger beset our
earlier dramatists in consequence of the usage allowing
full license of comic extravagance to the clown, whose
ambition it was to say very much more than was set down
for him.” The clown is a musical-comedian nowadays,
and most of the later dramatists, resigned to his exuber-
ance of gags, leave him practically to find the words of his
part as well as speak them. Hence the scarcity of genuine
wit in musical plays since Gilbert ceased writing.
YOU
A
m
'BAD
LEG
With Wounds that discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen, that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds; the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you pf the power to walk.
You may have attended various hospitals and had medical
advice and been told your case is hopeless, or advised to
submit to amputation ; but do not, for I can cure you. I
don't say perhaps, but I will. Because others have failed
itisno reason I should. Send at once for a Box of Albert s
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills, which is a cei tain cure of
BadLegs,Housemaid’sKnee,UlceratedJ oints,Carbuncles,
Bunions, Ringworm, Poisoned Hands, and Insect Bites.
Of all Chemists, Stores, &c. Prepared by ALBERT, 73,
Farringdon Street, London, England. Purchasers should
look foKthe Registered Trade Mark of the Grasshopper
Dn a green label on each box. (Registered Copyright).
This
Trade
Mark
vV
AERTEX
kPNDOIi
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &0., &o.
Shirts made to measure from 5/8.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
75 King Street, Sydney.
Happy Times!
=S
HOW happy
life seems
when the chil-
dren are hearty
and strong and
bursting with
spirits! Yet
there are other
times (and these
are not happy)
when the little
ones are pros-
' trate with pain;
or they are so
languid that all
the good moth-
er’s efforts to rouse
them are vain. Moth-
ers, there is one thing
that never fails to
bring back health, and
the happiness which
comes with health, and
this is
SCOTT’S
emulsion
of cod liver oil with
glycerine and the hy-
pophosphites of lime
and soda. For rickets,
wasting, colds and
coughs, bronchitis,
skin or blood troubles,
ssfusal to take food, teething trou-
bles and all children’s ailments,
Scott’s Emulsion is a perfect rem-
edy. Mrs. R. Carr, of Chinaman’s
Flat.Wallsend, N.S.W., wrote us on
Sept. 15th, 1904, this happy letter
“ My little boy Jack, aged 18 months,
was a very delicate child and suffered
severely from weak lungs and colds.
I tried various preparations, but he
grew worse. Then the Doctor advised
me to give Scott's Emulsion, which
agreed so well with him and made
him so strong that in a little while he
was able to run about again. Scott’s
Emulsion saved his life.”
Common cod liver oil will not
do for your sufferer what Scott’s
Emulsion will do ; that is, cure
quicKly. Doctors say that Scott’s
Emulsion cures three times fas-
ter than common cod liver oil.
This is because it is perfectly di-
gestible and perfectly nice, which
common oil and com-
mon preparations are
not.
Write to-dav for a free sam-
ple bottle ('enclosing 4d. for
postage and mentioning
this paper) to SCOTT &
BOWNE, Ltd., 483, Kent
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Trade mark
Permanently Overcomes Habitual Constipation.
Dispels Feverish Headaches.
Speedily Cures Biliousness,
lndigestion and Flatulency,
and all Disorders
arising from Sluggishness
of Liver, Bowels and
I Kidneys,
Everything about California
Syrup of Figs is pleasant-taste,
appearance, action and results.
I It does not gripe, irritate or in-
S commode in any way, but just
| simply and effectually assists
i the organs to perform their
' functions with healthful and
natural regularity, and its use
may be discontinued as soon
M
NATURES
PLEASANT.
LAXATIVE"
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE* I
as the system is properly relieved and cleansed.
Ask for California Syrup of Figs. Of all Chemists, In two sizes.
Dep6t: 32 Snow Hill. London. Australia: 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
m
A BABY IN ARMOUR
is a Baby that is washed regularly with
Wright’s Coal Tar Soap
because he is
PROTECTED FROM THE ATTACKS
of all childhood’s infectious diseases.
a
'(■ A
■■.■■■■■■■■ -
ills Sisili l|M (|o
Am Sttadlhi} nrfilrS urn nwsta Uood Wttarc* »Uh u Sin.wnfc
mi
BAKER&ROUSEPropLtd
Sole Australian Agent’s for all
o Kodak Goods. -A
ADELMOEMg^
%
M
About Mummers.
“ Melb.” : I don’t object to Bland Holt keeping a natty
gig, but only to his driving with both hands,
Maud MacCarthy, the Australian violinist, was asked
by an English duchess, the other day, to her At Home,
to play a little, and “she would be glad to pay her ex-
penses, two guineas. n Maud did not go into that garden.
As showing that they understand things better in the
U.S.A. : Mr. J. M. Sears, of Boston, had the violinist to
play at his place and next day sent a letter of thanks and
500 dollars.
Bert Gilbert, remembered in Australia as the musical
comedy colleague (and husband) of Ada Reeve, is now a
“turn” at the variety halls. There isn’t much call
nowadays for frivollers who are not able to provide their
own little show.
Cuyler Hastings is now leading man with Mme. Bertha
Kulicb a New York tragedienne who made her name in
Yiddish plays. America possesses a number of theatres
where the plays are given in Yiddish, and most of the
popular dramas are turned into Ghetto language. Mme.
Kulich now speaks English on the stage, so the cool,
calm Cuyler need not learn to be imperturbable in Zang-
willese.
II slbourne Age’s London Jeames tells of Melba’s birth-
dav reception ; duchesses in the hall, marchionesses in
the doorway, and mere countesses out on the mat. The
reception followed a dinner party. . . . Madame Melba
disappointed her public at Covent Garden on the follow-
ing evening on the plea of indisposition. What I
“ There is not another place in the world where the
spirit of routine has such narrowness, strength and
tenacity as in the theatre.” —Fvctncisque Sarcey .
T.P.’s Weekly tells a Patti story. Stagno, a rival tenor
to Patti’s first husband, Nicolini, packed the theatre at
Barcelona in 1885 with persons paid to hiss Nicolini and
Patti The performance was spoiled, and Patti threatened
to leave the town next day. The astute manager asked a
society friend for all the visiting cards left at his house.
With the help of his secretary he wrote under the titled
names every kind of delicate message (the handwriting
varied in every case). “ Bird, do not fly away. The
scoundrels ! are they deaf? ” “To hiss Patti is to offend
God.” “It is enough to make one blush at being a
Spaniard.” These were left at intervals during the day
at the hotel of the singer. Late in the afternoon the
manager called, ostensibly to beg once more for a change
of decision. He was met by a radiant creature. My
dear, we stay, w.e stay.”
The -latest looping the loop business is done in
Paris by a girl in a motor-car. Only a question of time
when some one will try it on roller skates, or on foot—or
possibly on his head.
“ The Worst Woman in London ” and “ The Greatest
Scoundrel Living’’have found a suitable companion in
melodrama titles. At a London suburban theatre The
Worst of All Women” has been produced. Anderson
must give that a chance.
“B.” : I had an experience last week. I met an old
friend outside the theatre, and duly proceeded to the
nearest bar to discuss old times. Later on we adjourned
to the theatre, where the “ Scalded Back” was wending
its way. On our entrance hundreds of double-faced and
double-bodied people met my gaze, and two “leading
ladies,” dressed exactly alike, screeched at the same time
as two Paolo Macaris thrust forth two bright daggers. I
motioned my friend outside to explain. He suggested
“ bed.” Went to my room, and for fear of extraordinary
possibilities, sought my revolver. There in the drawer
lay two beautiful “ guns.” Examined them, and for fear
of accident, dropped one. They both fell. I took off
four boots that night, and then the two floors stood
up in front of me. Mext morning my friend’s first word 3
were, “ You were ‘ loaded’ last night.” I told him he was
a slanderer.
“ Yes,” said - the advance-agent, “I write my own
advance pars. It gets pretty stale after a few months, I
can tell you. You express things in all sorts of ways till
there’s no other way left, and then yer have ter lie, but
pretty soon yer run out o’ lies. T’ make uphes about
plays' being produced 2,000,000 nights and all that sort o
thing is easy ; so’s yarns about actors. But th rottenest
work I ever had was when I was ahead for a bioscope
show I did get stale. I stuck t’ the truth as long as I
could and then I lied about the cost of films, and the
expense in getting them, and so on. I soon ran out, and
I had to start on the operator. He was a timid sort o
chap and ’ad never been out of Australia in his
life but I said he had seen much active warrare,
and bore marks of wounds that he had received
when getting the pictures. One shot had gone right
through his left arm, I said, and he carried in his right
shoulder a bullet that doctors had never been able to
abstract. In the Boer war he had been a prisoner for five
months, had had enteric six times, and his life had been
despaired of on many occasions. I made him famous in
the rural districts, and when we arrived at a place near
the border of N.S.W. (on the Vic. side), the local paper
sent a man to interview him (for they had got wind of his
fame), and asked him to recount his experiences. He wa*
shv and backward (as I said before), and wasn’t very ready
at lying, and became terribly embarrassed ; but next week
the paper appeared with the interview, and he was spoken
of as an unassuming young man, who would not talk about
his own experiences. I’m advance-agent for a whiiligig
now, and that doesn’t need much newspaper comment.
“N.” : In the second part of “ Faust,” Wagner creates
the new man, the Homunculus, thus forestalling what
radium is coming to. There’s a time-honored song in
Ireland. A venerable woman, what the Scotch call a
howdy by profession, sings about Dan O’Connell
And d’ye tell me this wonderful Daniel
Is go'in’ to produce kids by maehay—
Nery? But I think, my old man, ye’ll
Find the folks go on the ould way.
Pacific Ocean Dramatic Co., doing the provinces (for as
much as it possibly could), put in a one-night season
at Two Forks. Its talented members were producing
“ Hans the Boatman” under an alias, probably because
they did not desire to attract the attention of the pro-
prietor of the Australian rights. “ Hans the Boatman ”is
a lugubrious dog drama, in which the blind “ Yarinan
hero is towed round by a tall tyke. Pacific Ocean co.’s
dog was an athletic animal of the color of fried liver, and
he was not to be trifled with. The blind hero was
endeavoring to get a demonstration of devotion out of the
dog but the insurrectionary beast resented his impor-
tunities, and, instead of fawning, grappled with flans,
and bit him in the arm. Hans broke out m coarse, Anglo-
Saxon oaths, and kicked the faithful dog. The dog
feinted, got into holts, and tore all the back part out of
the poor blind man’s unmentionables, and the shrieking
audience had one mad moment of delirious joy as Hans
fled the scene, with his devoted friend hanging on to the
tail end of things and hauling back all he knew. The
tug-of-war was won by the dog. He broke away with
half of the hero’s under-garment in his mouth just as Hans
reached the cover of the wings.
A musician, recently engaged to conduct an amateur
charity performance, was told by one of the lady-pro-
moters : “ We want, you know, to have nothing but really
qood music.” The'conductor thought on Beethoven,
Schubert, Wagner, and then on the resources of his
orchestra, with considerable misgivings. But the lady
relieved his anxiety by adding : “ Something out of The
Orchid,’ for instance, if you could manage it. He said
he could.
“J.”: Some of the effects of “Empire Days,” St.
George’s Societies,” and the like : I dropped in the other
night to see “Bill Adams,” and liked the show right
enough up to where May Beatty sings “Tommy, Hesa
Dandy ” and shows divers flags at the end of the
The “ Harp ” got a good reception ;so did the Thistle,
while the “ Union Jack ” bulged the premises with ap-
plause. Then came the Australian flag, and a dead damp
- silence in the pit, while from the stalls a few faint cheers
crawled upwards into the atmosphere and sneaked out
through the ventilators like shamed caterpillars. I was
puzzled as to the reason of this until a man leant over to
me and spoke : “ Say, mate, what was that bloonnn flag
they showed last ? You know, the one with the stars on
it.” You could have knocked me over with a traction
engine.
Alice Hollander, who went to England with a view to
putting Ada Orossley’s nose out of joint, is now a star
turn at the London Tivoli. “ The charming Australian
vocalist” has a 44 weeks engagement, and will sing 19
weeks at the Tivoli before going to another hall. Who
Wouldn’t be a singer on the upper-class variety stage f
The salary is liberal, and the work is light. Miss Hol-
lander is timed to appear at 9.55 p.m., and the following
turn comes on at 10.5. Ten minutes a night—one hour
per week. No travelling. No “frequent changes of
programme.” The same ballad, or two ballads, including
• the°encore, will do duty for a month at least, The life
of a first-class concert artist is full of toil and trouble, as
compared with that of a variety-hall vocalist of Alice
Hollander’s quality.
On the first night of “ Walls of Jericho,” at Melbourne
Princess’s, the long wait between the third and fourth
acts was relieved by a roar of laughter from the amphi-
theatre, suggesting that somebody had done something
funny. A pair of sweethearts were the unconscious per-
formers. They had seats in the front row, and their
mutual admiration was specially marked, even for lovers at
the play. For about four minutes the amphitheatre silently
watched the worshippers as they drank to one another
with their eyes, and thrilled their respective beings with
hand-squeezes and shoulder-contacts. Finally the feel-
ings of Adolphus compelled him to kiss the maiden, and
the shrieking audience demanded an encore. It is a curi-
osity in human nature this invariable ridiculing of real
love scenes in the auditorium even by women who have
come prepared to take a serious view of stage-kisses.
Feminine sentimentality has a sense of ridicule in witness-
ing any emotional display which isn’t tricked out with
theatrical effects. The art of love-making is histrionic.
“ Melb.” : I fancy that Brough’s greatest delight over
the production of the “ Walls of Jericho ” was in the real
doors of the wall interiors. Don’t we all know the stage
door, the canvas one ? First it won’t open, and then it
insists on remaining agape to show you the behind scene.
A certain Hamlet in this city could not have his real door,
but the grand feature of his performance was a real lock
and key.
“ O’Fipp ”: Can any Poverty Pointer say why “ I’ve got
’em on the list ” does not appear in the collected edition
of Gilbert’s plays? ' Didn’t Gilbert write the patter song,
or did he write it and afterwards come to regard it as a
pinchbeck patch spoiling the “ Mikado ” libretto ?


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams,
CONSULTATIONS.
Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 11 ... ... 100,000 at 5/2 each.
DEMONSTRATION HANDICAP, Canterbury Park, N.S.W., October 2 ... 50,000 at 5/2 each.
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., October 21 ... ... ... ... 100,000 at 5/2 each.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., November 7---
100,000 at 5/2, 100,000 at 10 4, and Special
(drawn morning, day of race) 100,000 at 5/2 each.
ss.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On an Sw ee p s on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
TlCKet, and 4d. on each 10 S. Ticket . Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances
Tin™™ GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
mimtvm l the Sweep busmess under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DUILI VERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia. J
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
m
I
m
m
uji
[IMF
m
m
m
KEEP YOUR.
BILLS DOWN
ill l" If 11'Hi;
VOUR
FROM
By
Purchasing
CLOTHING
Cincoln, Stuart
$ Co.
Ctd.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
No Matter Where
you live and with no more
trouble than the writing of
a letter you can through
tl e Post Office bring our
Warehouse to your door.
FAMOUS
Two Guinea
(TO MEASURE) Suits
Wri e for Patterns and
Self-measure FORMS.
Hearne
9
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
foiling in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEIWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
“ I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid
results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts like
magic.”
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH,
Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld,
Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“ I have been a Bronchial subject for nearly forty years,
but have found your Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDHOUSE, J.P.,
Stawell Brewery,
Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is
the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
the Chest, and Sore Throat.”
(Mrs.) John mckenzie,
Werona, Victoria.
“ I suffered very much from Asthma for four years, and
tried lots-of so-called cures, without deriving any benefit.
I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la, last
Friday, and a bottle of your No. 2 Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2
Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON,
“ Leongatha,” Riversdale Road,
Hawthorn, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.”
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES,
Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte,
South Australia.
“As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing
in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very
much enlarged sale and great prosperity. ”
JOHN KING,
Chemist, Ballarat.
“ I have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis
Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I am cured.” J. WRIGHT,
c/o Mr. D. McLean,
Camperdown, Victoria.
“I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis,
during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now
completely cured.” JAMES WILLIAMS,
Huntly-street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“It a£crrry» me great pleasure to testify to the mar-
vellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
F. W. BINNS,
c/o A. H. Massina & Co.,
Australian Journal Office,
Melbourne.
“For nine years my wife suffered from Asthma and
Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, but none
succeeded till I g-ot Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma
Oure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago.
She is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.”
A. ORR,
Clonbinane, Sunday Creek,
Broadford, Victoria.
“The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis
Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
F. C. GREEN,
State School, Rosebud, via Dromana,
Victoria.
“ I feel truly grateful to you for your invaluable
medicine. It is marvellous the good it did me.”
ISABEL P. WILSON,
“ Coanwood,” Drurnmond-street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
“ I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from
Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure.”
W. UTTON,
7 Little Railway-street, Durban,
Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to
say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and colds.”
A. E. ANDERSON,
Telegraph Office, Fremantle,
West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis
Cure, more than 12 months ago, and he has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my
son, 5 years old, who has had a cold ever since he was
born. I have only given him a few doses, and he is better
already.” (Mrs.) W. J. WISHART,
Warwick, Queensland.
“ Having used your Bronchitis Cure in my family at
different times for years past, I wish to testify to the
relief always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any
complaint arising therefrom.”—Yours, etc.,
E. V. GODDARD,
19 Fitzgerald-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here
We sell more of it than of any other chest medicine we
stock.” WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is the best medicine I have ever
taken." D. WILLIAMS,
Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“lean thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of
your bronchitis Oure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect what-
ever.” T. LEWIS,
Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
“ Your Bronchitis and Asthma Oure has been more to
me than money could ever pay. I am quite free from
Asthma now, and feel very grateful to you.”
ISA S. TOSACH,
Yirginia-street, Geelong.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is all you describe it to be.” —
Yours most respectfully, R. J. M'CLELLAND,
Red Jacket, via Walhalla, Victoria.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Oure myself, and have
recommended it to others, with most beneficial results.”
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON,
Gumeracha, South Australia.
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis" Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was
magical in its effects.”—CHAS. WYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family,
and it cured each of them in from one to three doses.”—
P. P. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in
case I should want it.”—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkery, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.”—
A. B. SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington,
Sydney.
“lam very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The
result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.”—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.”
S. STEELE,
Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
“I suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years ; was
that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another ; often had to sit up in bed part of the night.
Tried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists, without
success ; was almost tired of trying anything when, one
day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to
give it a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and
Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breath-
ing and distressing cough have all disappeared. I cannot
speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recom-
mend it to all my friends.”
ELIZA LANGTON,
Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to
inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both
a wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both ”
R. BASSETT,
Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely
left me.” (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY,
Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, from
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present free-
dom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN C. TRELAWNEY,
Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the
doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me ar.y
good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two
bottles of it made me quite well.”
H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure.
This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.”
A. ALLEN,
Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bron
chitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most valu
able medicine.”
(Mrs.) J. SLATER,
Warragul, Victoria.
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-st., Geelong and 59
other leading residents.
w.
PRANCH
HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6(1.; targe Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR
G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
2EE2i ' Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


You will shake hands
with yourself when you
persuade yourself to try
SUNLIGHT SOAP
for the laundry.
MONKEY BRAND
FOR SCOURING POTS AND PANS.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunvadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to undesirable
symptoms even if used continuously for years.
Averase Dose. —A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a similar quantity
of hot or cold ivater.
CAUTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the proprietor,
• ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre
Part of the Label.
KIDNEY DISEASE CAN BE CURED.
From Mrs. Ada H. Pearce, 5 Grant Street, Ballarat East, Vic,, 16 February, 1905
“ For the benefit of others who may be suffering as I did from kidney complaint, and its attendant
agonising' pain, I give my experience of the curative properties of Warner s Safe Cure. I suffered
from mv^kidneys for nearly thirty years, and no one can have any idea of the agony I went through
durTn?that time Being the mother of a large family I kept up as long as it was possible for me to
do so but at last, I was brouerht so weak and low, and was so near death s door, that myself and my
famTl’v had little hope of my recovery. I suffered intense pain m urinating, and my urine contained
1 Cle auantity of Lpy matter, which analysis showed to be pus, albumen, and tube casts. Sometimes
urination was frequent and at other times suppressed. My strength left me, and I became exhausted,
oW to the grea q t bodily pain and sleepless nights. During the years I suffered I tried many reme-
chTs Doctor! could give me no relief. They could do nothing for me. As a last resource, Warner s
Safe Cure was given to me, and it gave me relief almost immediately. I continued to take Warner s
Safe Cure In junction with Warner’s Safe Pills, for some time, and continuously until
all the symptomsi have described had disappeared. lam now in the enjoyment of good health.
From Mr. P. Burns, Bootmaker, 162 Bourke-street, Sydney, N.S.W., 7th March, 1905.
“ Having caught a severe cold, which I unfortunately neglected, it ultimately developed into
kidnev complaint. B I suffered excruciating pain in the back, down my right side, and at times, i t the
reriolof mvheart. I also had periodical attacks of piles, which gave me great trouble I obtained
th! advice If a doctor, who prescribed for me, but the medicine did me no good. On the advice of a
friend who had derived great benefit from taking Warner’s Safe Cure, I decided on giving that
medioinl afa r trial I bought a bottle, and, as I found that it was doing me good, I continued to
lt and soon became strong and free from pain, and was able to get about my work as well as
ever. I feel that it is my duty to recommend Warner’s Safe Cure to anyone suffering in a similar
manner.’’ ’
From Mr. F. H. Davies, 11 Ada-street, South Fremantle, W.A., 27th October, 1904.
“ Two vears ago I suffered terribly from pain in the small of the back, which was so severe that I
iuS nrfriffht A friend of mine, who had suffered m a like manner and was cured by
Warner’s Safe Cure, advised me to take that medicine. I did so, and began to feel better after taking
the first bottle In a very short time all the disagreeable and painful symptoms disappeared, and I
was quite cured. I have had no return of the complaint, and can heartily recommend Warner s Safe
Cure to all sufferers from kidney troubles.”
From Mrs. Mary Gordon, Second-street, Bowden, S. A., 3rd December, 1904.
» For a long time I suffered unceasing pain, almost torture, from chronic pain in my back, head
and sides I was under the treatment, for several months, of one of the leading physicians of the city,
who said I was suffering from kidney disease, and treated me accordingly. Month after month went
past and I gradually got worse and weaker each week. Seeing that, the course of treatment and
medicine was doing mf no good, he, at last, decided that it would be necessary for me to undergo an
mirationln order to effect a cure, and, if I did not consent to that, he could do nothing for me. At
thatlime I was in such a weak and helpless state that I felt sure an operation would only hasten my
derihso I decided to consult a herbalist, who I had been told was very clever. After a short consul-
tattn he said that I was suffering from an abcess in the stomach, and that he could cure me for a sum
Wh ch it was beyond my means to pay. My husband, who had just got some work in the country,
sent me some money and advised me to buy some Warner’s Safe Cure, and take a course of it, as he
had heard it well spoken of. I got some of the medicine and commenced tci take it at once. In a few
da vs I began to feel better. I continued to take Warner’s Safe Cure, getting stronger each day, until
l!vas Quite cured. The pain and weakness all left me, and I was once again able to do my household
work. 4 1 am quite convinced that Warner’s Safe Cure saved my life.
From Mr Joseph Mudkins, Burn-street, Invermay, Launceston, Tas., 10th October, 1904.
“Fourteen years ago I was cured of dropsy by taking Warner’s Safe Cure and had no return of
i. t ,T u iv last, when my feet, legs and eyes were so much swollen with dropsy that I
was laidlip in bed. I took Warner’s Safe Cure again, and am thankful to say that lam now on my
feet again P I might also state that I have taken several vials of Warner s Safe Pills. I heartily
recommend Warner’s Safe Cure and the Pills to any one suffering as I did from dropsy.
From W H M’Glew, Esq., J.P., Springside, Smith’s Hill, W.A., 11th November, 1903.
“Seventeen years ago I was suffering with Bright’s Disease of the kidneys. I was
treated by two doctors, and by them was given up. as incurable They had been
attending me for some time, and finally decided that it was impossible for me to re-
attending me prepare for the worst. The announcement came as a
Slat’ shock to me? anl more tom P y and family, who were greatly distressed At the
thle mv head and body were in an alarming state, being swollen right up to the eyes. I had a vague
time my ii™ tenderness in the kidneys: I suffered from extreme wakefulness, and gradual
aft of sftKh.fso“lw» noV.ble to kjep anything in my stomach The fact that lam ahve
to day is however, proof that doctors are not always correct when they tell you you are going to die
I didlot give up hope myself, and was determined to live as long as possible. Providentially, about
this time 8 one of Warner’s Safe Cure pamphlets was placed m my hands, and m it I read a
letter from someone who suffered from the same complaint, and had been cured by taking
Warner’s Safe Cure. I at once decided that, as the doctors said they could do no more
for me I would give Warner’s Safe Cure a trial, and see if that would do me any
for me l for a supply of Warner’s Safe Cure and a vial of Warners
Safc PDls and c™enced taking these medicines without delay, keeping strictly to the diet rules
riven which I believe to be most important, in order that the medicine may do its work without
given, whlch /. t t i n f orm the doctors that I was taking Warner’s Safe Cure, for fear that
K mkht object to my doing *£After taking a few bottles I began to feel better, and this gave me
frith to continue. The swelling in my head and body went down gradually, and my urinary troubles
which had been very distressing, were completely banished. I continued to improve m health, gaining
r I+hlLch dav 7 The doctors were delighted at my rapid and almost miraculous recovery, but
wherfl informed them what medicine had produced the result, they would scarcely believe me. In a
when I miormea rneui v d mv normal strength, and have since had no return of the com-
pW»7£dSin 31 7 ever Iw» inft life. To prove .hot this is so, .gents for
insurance co.’s have offered to insure my life for any amount,
A treatise containing full particulars and valuable diet directions will be sent, post free, by
H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne, Victoria. L J
Tamarama Beach.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE waves are dancing in the sun,
A jewelled crown has each ;
Their raiment is of silver spun—
On Tamarama Beach.
Upon a far-off summer day
We sat on this grey stone;
Now you are half the world away,
And I sit here alone.
What made the pebbles jewels rare?
What turned the sands to gold ?
The Prince of Fantasy was there,
In those fine days of old.
The wild flowers bloomed in fashion brave,
The breeze made music sweet,
And Eros, on a crested wave,
Rode laughing to your feet.
Your hair was like a shining veil
Around your shoulders spread ;
Your proud young face was rosy-pale,
And, oh, your lips were red.
A wreath of smoke rose from the hill;
A sail shone far at sea;
And, in that scene so calm and still,
There were but you and me.
The sun made on the ocean floor
A pathway broad and bright;
The Future shone our eyes before.
Like that long lane of light.
Methought I saw, as we stood there,
The noon of your renown,
When you, as Queen of Song, would wear
A rose-and-laurel crown.
For you strange flags would be unfurled
In cities old and new,
And you would sing for all the world
The songs I wrote for you.
And while I saw that vision rare,
That would be truth in time,
I wove for you a garland .fair
Of many colored rhyme.
What glamor had come over me ?
What strange spell magical ?
It was the Prince of Fantasy
Who held me in his thrall.
I looked into your eyes of brown,
And I saw clearly there
That you, too, saw the Singer’s Crown
Which, some day, you should wear.
My vision was a Prophecy,
And part of it came true.
Your name is known from sea to sea—
And I am dead to you.
Your voice turns Winter into Spring,
They say ; so let it be.
I only know the songs you sing,
They were not made by me.
You are a Queen of Song sublime —
So I have often read —
While I am a poor Prince of Rhyme,
Long disinherited.
Enough ! who cares for song or rhyme ?—
I’ve had my share of each :
I knew you in your sweetest time
On Tamarama Beach.
• N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
“The Starvers.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A few months before the break-up of
the drought, I was riding in company
with several other “sweaters,” members
of a Melbourne club, down the Ferntree Gully
road. Tiring of persistent attempts to lure me
into a race, I turned off into a side road at
Scoresby, and biked slowly along, hardly disturb-
ing the thick, gray dust, and enjoying the abso-
lute peace of the scene.
I passed farms that nestled in ancient orchards,
modern cottage-villas, each with the original slab
habitation still lurking in the rear—even in its
sombre decay more suitable than the “ornate,”
pink-pine-wood, undersized upstart residence that
so barefacedly stood between its old gray homeli-
ness and the beauty-seeking eyes of the wayfarer.
Presently I was made aware of the fact that I was
now five miles from Ferntree Gully, thanks to the
remains of a L. V. W. board, which had apparently
served as a target to many a gay bucolic sportsman.
Looking towards Bayswater I caught a splendid
glimpse of the Dandenong Ranges, and far around
me Spread the green and prosperous farms.
Then I came on tracks of travelling sheep,
where they had entered the road by a lane; and,
topping a slight rise, I saw the dust cloud, and
heard the fretful, protesting sound of driven
animals. Nearer me, and following the flock, was
a tilted cart, the tilt soiled into a yellowish white
and patched with sacking. Tied on to the back-
board by the shafts, was an old and marvellously
mended American buggy, piled with, what ap-
peared to me, a wild, dirty and useless tangle of
rubbish. Old bags hung limply over the sides;
billies and buckets rattled emptily beneath. But in
the pile of bedding and wearing apparel, tumbling
and heaped upon the floor (there were no seats), re-
clined the saddest and strangest hospital I ever saw.
I had got off my machine and was walking, so I
had time to observe these details. There was a
sheep, Sitting on its haunches as far as I could
make out—old and hoary it looked, with its long,
nartow face set in the woolly frame, and the great
yellow glass-like eyes staring. Leaning against
its Side was a boy of about 12. Dark moist wisps
of hair stained his white forehead j below his eyes,
which were heavy with illness, his face was sun-
burnt to a bright copper color, and his neck was
the same, but the white of the brow was repeated
where the unfastened shirt fell open on his breast.
I heard a warning growl before I noticed the sharp
alert face of a sheep-dog, with angry eyes watch-
ing me It crouched against his knees as the boy
held one of its paws in his thm nerveless hand
pasture.
The other arm was thrown over the sheep s neck,
either for support or from*came running
Just then, a second sheep-dog came
back towards the cart, hmpmg, with tong
injr but Avas immediately whistled up J bQ
drover. He hesitated, looking wistfully at th
?h” e invalids- The bo, roo»d and sa.d m the
d?g inthe buggy licked the boy's hand and soM,
whimpered. The sheep stared at all all
"ntfl°lSf in line with the tilgl waggohj
The flap Avas doAvn in front but l beard the y t
a child and the croon of its mother i voice Va
the shafts struggled an awful horse, and a th^
of heartsickness ran cold over me. Throug
deep grass paddocks, by running, shady stiearns,
in sunlit beauty and cool breeze this brute of
revolting aspect and hanging lip unload
drunkenly past in his harness, dragging his load
° f A U littlTfurther on a man drove before him a
few hundred sheep, not white hke happy, grass
land sheep, not even gray, but grimed with the
red dust of the famine country they bad just
quitted. One ran aside into the logs and brush-
wood. The dog saw it, and tried to run it out,
but it kept along the barbed wire fence,, having
long streamers of wool in its track, and I J. j*
to jump a log, fell and lay mutely where it fell.
The dog bit at it weakly. Both animate were
exhausted. The man came back to them, sent the
dog away to his work and lifted the sheep by l
fleece, set it on its feet, and pushed it gently a few
steps to try its strength. It seemed distressed,
baa’d feebly, and fell forward heavily. In a sud
den passion of anger he kicked at it savagely, an
a curse that was almost a cry broke from him.
Then I did an unexpected thing, I offered my
services. I had a holiday, I explained, and Icl
done a bit of droving, too, long ago. Starvers;
I asked, and the bearded man laughed nastily,
looking me up and down. I looked back at t e
approaching caravan, and he looked too, wistfully,
and thought of his sick. Then he called up the
dog and introduced me, and, without anothei
word, took the bicycle as I pushed it toivards him,
and waited for the carts while I went on to my
new duties,
After the first hour the task grew wearisome,
and more and more wearisome. The dog: ‘ loafed
on me,” running inside the fences and hedges and
lying in the deep grass, or running under the
bridges and culverts to cool himself in the puddles.
I hardly looked back. Now and aga.n a sheep
would fall, and, helped up, would struggle on. A
lamb or two I let go, and no objection was
made from the rear. Once or twice the carts
stopped, but I plodded on, allowing the sheep
to gather as much food as they could. Here and
there I yelled and ran and bullied, in the new
excitement of a corner or a broken fence.
Toivards evening a few vehicles passed me,
and once some happy picnickers screamed with
laughter at the sight of the broken-kneed old
horse dragging the two carts, and the sick sheep
sitting up in the bedding. They addressed many
humorous remarks to me, gave me the address of
an imaginary boiling-down establishment, and
otherwise cheered me on my way. I had a
camping-place in my mind’s eye, and determined
to push on to that before I stopped. As I began
to hurry on the flock of skeletons a feeling of
nightmare grew upon me. The backs of my legs
ached and my heart ached, and I Avas most deadly
hungry, and the long shadoAvs began to bar the
long, white road. Then came the top of
the hill I had been walking for, and by-and-
bye the gentle descent and the green grass
in the reserve, bordered by the thick, dark,
bushy tea-tree scrub. Plenty of wood, plenty of
feed ; the only thing necessary for perfect security
all night, a couple of rails across the bridge, a
couple across the road at the foot of the hill, and a
good night’s rest for all. The setting sun sim-
mered in soft haze on the horizon, tall white gums
drooped over lagoon and running water, reeds
rustled, birds twittered their final songs, the
flocks spi ead out resting and nibbling, the dog lay
on his side in a shallow pool, and the low-lying
bank was just the place for the old horse to drink.
I ran about like a boy, collecting sticks and fallen
strips of bark, and waited impatiently for the
others. A small bush boy drove his cows along
the road, and I captured him and promised him
fabulous prices if he ivould return as promptly as
possible with fresh milk. It was like a fairy tale,
and I was to be the good fairy.
Then they came, tottering slowly down the
slope, between straggling hedges and wattles, lhe
man held the horse’s head to help him, and
pushed back the shafts to ease the breeching. I
hurried towards him. His face was stern and
gray, the mouth fixed in a line that showed the
teeth were clenched within it. He pulled up and
began to unhitch the harness. I gave a nervous
glance round to see if anything had happened to
the rear cart, but the boy was rousing and begin-
ning to look interested. When. the horse drew
out of the shafts, the man got up into the cart and,
pulling the flap back, disappeared inside. Again
I heard the baby’s wailing cry, and then he hamded
a little bundle down to me. I laid it gently on
the ground and bent forward to assist, if need be,
its mother to dismount.
The m&n was kneeling on the floor, by the side
of a still figure, his hands closely clasping hers
over her breast. Her head was toward me, the
heap of loosened black hair pillowing it. It was
the face of the boy, only a mother face, sharpened
and white with suffering. The man looked up at
me; once'or twice he tried to speak, but the
words caught in his husky throat. Then he
moistened his cracking lips, and muttered with a
horrible difficulty : “Dead, my poor girl, at last
she’s dead, and so often she’s almost gone and has
come back to me.” He went on uttering dis-
jointed sentences. .
“She was alive when I passed, I said. I
heard her speak.”
“Yes, then she was. I gave her a drink after
I went back, and stayed with her a while, and let
her see the boy through the curtain, and »he spoke
to him, and —and all that, but she’s gone.”
That night the baby died too, and in the morn-
ing we went on to town with our sad load, while
the remnant of the flock fattened in a fresh
ROKE.
It is suggested as a means of checkmating
the devious Chow —who, it is said, is evading the
immigration laws by landing somewhere on the
coast between Port Darwin and the Gulf and
making across to the Queensland sugar country—
that legislation on the lines of a. recent Natal law
be passed. The Natal Act provides that Chinese
residents must present themselves each year to
t@,ke out a certificate and prove their claim to it.
The certificate, which may be demanded at any
time by the authorities, must always be carried by
its holders, and failure to produce it when called
for renders the Chinaman liable to deportation.
Transference of certificates is provided against by
a finger-print system.
Alleged by a section of the Transvaal
press that the British Government stopped at the
Customs books by Boothby, Mrs. Henry Wood
and others because they were printed in Dutch ;
and that a resolute effort is being made to stamp
out the use of the Dutch language altogether—
after the manner of the Russians in Poland.
G. R. Sims in London Referee :—•
I believe that there are only two things that can save
us from presently having to take a back seat both as an
Imperial and a commercial Power. Those two things are
Protection and Conscription. Sugar-coat them if you like
to make them more palatable, but these are two of the
pills that will have to be swallowed before John Bull can
be restored to his former healthy condition.


m
AND STOMACH TROUBLES.
w
ISE doctors treat Headaches as a svmptom only, not as a disencf, u „„v-
-head is proof of the disorder of some other organ-geLrX the g
liver. Bile Beans are so successful in curing Headaches, because tlmvremove
the root cause, by correcting and stimulating the liver and digestive system.
I have been a sufferer for a number of
years says Mrs. S A. Clare, of 23 Phillip,
street, Alexandria, Sydney, “with splitting
headaches and wind on the stomach. Some-
times I have been obliged to lay up for days
together, unable to do anything but wish I
was dead, and at times I have really thought
I was near my last days. I tried many
remedies advertised to cure the complaints
1 suffered from, but my money seemed to
be thrown away, and I was at a loss to know
what next to do, when a friend, who had
benefited by the use of Bile Beans, advised
me to try them and I am glad to say that
the very first dose had such a beneficial
sttect that I continued to use them, and
now, after having used only one box, I
am quite a different woman. Instead of
the periodical splitting headaches, which
1 dreaded, I am speedily losing the old
troubles, and am pleased to say I am in
much better health, and prefer Bile Beans
to all other medicines. I find myself grow-
ing a new woman, and cannot say too much
in favor of Bile Beans, which I consider
are a certain cure for Biliousness. ”
rCj. «,XV
Wi
n
v
m
BILE BEANS are a SAFE FAMILY MK DTPTT'JTi’
BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE, INDIGEStFon^OONSHP aT?nir ol ®t? ™
DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS,
BAD BREATH,
BAD BLOOD,
ANAEMIA,
DISTURBED
SLEEP, LOSS
OF APPETITE,
PIMPLES, and
ALL SKIN
ERUPTIONS,
RHEUMATISM,
and, by giving tone
to the system,
will ward off
COUGHS,
COLDS, and
INFLUENZA.
Obtainable gener-
ally at Is. l|d., or
2s. 9d. LARGE
BOX (containing
three times the Is.
size).
1.
it
rA
4
FOR
1-5&
a
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SO APMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
liotics
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Lta ’
Dis-Missed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE’S a rhyme that must be turned,
Ere the rhymer’s rest is earned,
And he turns him into bed to take his
wages.
But the midnight lamp is low,
And the bardlet’s pen runs slow
And unsteadily across the virgin pages.
There’s a thought that must be thunk,
On the sleepless side of bunk,
And the rhymelet must condense the thoughlet’s
vapor;
So the pen must cease to jerk,
And the brainlet get to work,
And precipitate a gemlet on the paper.
Oomes a thoughticule like this—
That the things we never miss
Are the things we all go missing, never knowing;
Thus, the smiles that die unborn,
And the flowers that fade forlorn,
When the world would be the brighter for their
blowing.
Then the friends we never meet,
Hidden gold beneath our feet,
Dews of morning that are mist before we miss
them;
And the light behind the stars,
And the mirth they have in Mars,
And the girls that grow to grandmas ere we kiss
them.
If we missed the smiles, the flowers,
And the friends that ne’er were ours,
And the nuggets and the dewdrops and the
kisses
That elude us day by day,
We should go our weary way
Inhabiting a hell of little misses.
When we miss them we shall know
That we’re dead and gone below,
And that all is over—bar what may be under.
Then we’ll see, without a glass,
All the things that used to pass,
And we 11 figure out the blame for every blunder.
Stop ! The thoughtlet will escape
Ere we’ve knocked it into shape.
Hurry, brainlet! for the flame grows dim and
dodgy.
Since we’re ready to declare
That there is a thinklet there,
Like the potter, we must thump it while it’s
stodgy.
How the bardlet’s soul is vext!
It has struck a musty text,
When it started for the sky—perdition take it!
And the pen it sticks like glue
In the moral, trite and true,
That the world is just as narrow as we make it.
N.S.W.
WAIF.
“The Cries of the Wounded.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
voice of Big Nose, the Yankee, is
| louder than a whisky still; it is full of bad
stories and strange catalogues of sound.
But there is a certain dignity about his voluminous
nose that disarms criticism. As a sapper and line-
surveyor he saw service with the U.S. army in the
Philippines. He admits that shell-fire at close
range made his teeth fall out, while the sight of a
dead comrade standing upright in a rifle-pit at
El Caney permanently affected the color of his
hair.
“Guess the Merikin and British war corres-
pondents know how to handle thatyer ‘ cry of the
wounded’ song. ‘All night we heard it in the
hills.’ Nuff to give a soldier man dry feet. Still,
sonny, a nickel bullet planted in the waistcoat
will tune a fat man up to C-sharp in one second.
You don’t know how many nerves a fat corporal
has until the lead strikes him.
“ I like good shootin’ from the other side. Bad
shootin’ hits the harmless mule and the parson,
and the red-faced tenderfoot when he’s carrying
the beer to the boys in the firing-line. No civilised
infantryman will shoot grog.
“Good shootin’. Waal, sonny, Pve seen a
scrap of smoke break right on the sky-line, then a
thin red poker of flame lick out at us. ‘ Right on
the eye,’ sez the corporal. Hoosh ! You can’t
duck from a shell. It’s a great treat. Splosh !
Milk cans and flying horse shoes. Whoop !
“ ‘Who spoke last?’ sez the corporal, looking
over us. Big MGinty lying in the wet looked
queer. He was smiling, holding a fistful of mud
in each hand. ‘ln me left side, corporal. Doesn’t
hurt a pinch,’ he said.
“ Thing like an oyster shell sticking out of his
ribs. ‘No pain,’ he says; ‘jest a holy calm.’
Then, sonny, I sees the blue of his eye turn grey,
a streak of pain seemed to rip across his face.
For a second and a half he held himself, then we
got our first man-scream, and it made us sick as
children. A regiment of howling women wouldn’t
hurt, but the whining of full-grown men is hell in
your ears.
“Yes, sonny, wounded men cry and howl; it’s
the top-note in a bombardment. I’ve hung by the
breech of a firing gun to try and lose a particular
howl. Some howls get hold of you. One man
with a bayonet-rip will dog-yelp all night; another
will smother up and croon a packet of nursery
rhymes. But men don’t weep. You can divide
it into a grunt and a scream. And they kick each
other like horses.
“ There’s the hero-man, who isn’t supposed to
grunt--the man with the golden brow and the high
hair. The band isn't playing when tfie bullet gets
him; and the bullet knocks the pose away, and
leaves him a clawing mass of twopenny yells.
There’s one lone and sorrowful thing about a dead
man ; you can’t offer him any of your breakfast.
“Get your wou..ded out of the way. They
destroy your aim and they turn your liver to ice.
Gueoo the Baltic men knew something when they
slung their bad cases to the deep.
“Gahdedam! The Yurrupean Tommy is the
best howler in mankind. His stomach is soft; he
is moist at the neck. The Yankee soldier is dry
behind the ears. You bring a man to me and say,
‘ This yer man is a Spartan. ’ I say, ‘ Yessir ;l .et
me feel his neck.’
“When they first put you on the firing-scratch
you breathe Sheol and a bullet in your first 10
breaths. Then your heart sits up like a woman,
and waits for the bit of lead to come and smash
her window.
“Tell you what, sonny—but don’t say I’m an
American citizen—the boys don’t like the wounded.
In hospital, when the long-haired reporter is look-
ing for copy, the wounded lie on pillows and every-
body plays tenderfoot, and sings ‘ Carry Me Back
to Dixie.’ But on firing scratch, it’s different.
Jt ou lie on your chest, waiting for the first rush of
the nigger insurrectionary. They are moving
through the cane towards you—moving, moving.
1 hero s a patter of black feet in your heart, a smell
in the air. Two things will happen. First, a bit
of cane will bend politely, then a long machete
wipes down at .Toe, and over he goes. The cane
bows again, straightens, and all is quiet. You
can hear that quietness ; you can almost taste the
blood licking the grass.
“ Now, if Joe is dead, he is a good sort of a lad,
but, if he is going to wake up and talk about his
wound and ask for drinks, the company wants to
poison him right away. There are men who
would be glad to kill him with a gun-butt. The
man who sits up after being hit and makes dog-
music over his cut is a blight on the army. I’ve
seen a company wiped out because it let a wounded
man howl, and his noise smothered the ‘creep
U P ( °f 500 Filipinos through the cane.
Now, sonny, this hand of mine is shaking:
put a coin in it. There’s a white face staring at
me from a rifle pit at El Caney. Whiskv is the
am Pr V nl^'on kid that dead man with.
. “ Thanks, sonny, but don’t think that the fight-
ing man is no good. He likes to think of death as
a white angel, quiet and peaceful; but when he
counts the crescendos that Hog Mullins arrives at
before turning it up he feels that death is only a
barnyard opera. Good night.”
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
Fly Monte.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE total stranger lay down in the doubt-
ful shade of the scratching board and fought
the flies. After ten minutes he admitted
himself beaten, and sauntered over to where I sat,
accompanied by a flock of the energetic creatures.
They seemed to have taken a fancy to him.
“ Flies pretty bad ? ” I ventured.
“Naw ! ” said he contemptuously. “ This ain’t
nuthin’ to wot they was up my way—Kennilwilla.
Why, at Brumby’s pub, they was that bad that at
meal-times y’d ’ave ter cut yer way in an’ then ’old
outer yer tucker with one hand, an’ fight ’em with
t other. Funny thing about ’em was that they
never come near but at meal-times. Then, d’reckly
ther feed-bell sounded, y’d ’ear a whirr o’ wing's,
an’ big, black clouds ’ud come up from all sides’
till sometimes it got so dark with ’em we’d ’ave
ter light ther lamp at mid-day. Brumby once
tried not ringin’ ther bell, an’ it fooled ’em fer
alf a day, but when they did fall to it
they wuz that mad they near ate ther township
Next we tried puttin’ the clocks on a hour
or two, but it were no good ; them there critters
just timed it by the sun, an’ turned up pungshal
as a shearer on pay-day. Say, mate, if you’s goin’
ter shout, come over to Donn’ly’s booth ; they sell
pisen over ’ere.”
Ihe “shouting” was entirely his suggestion,
but I allowed myself to be led off to the adjoining
booth, where the stranger called for a “rum-an’-
pep’mmt.” Then he led the way back to our
former seats, and, having chased out the flies,
which had usurped the position (he did it with
much picturesque language and a red bandana), he
resumed his seat and his doubtful narration.
“ Now this ’ere ’orse-racin’ is excitin’ enuf, no
doubt, but ’ave y’ ever played ‘Fly Monte’ ? No l
Well, I’m th’ inventor. The most excitin’est game
as ever was ! Y’ must know that Brumby got up a
case o’ flypapers an’ uster make a curtin of ’em,
an’ ’ang it in the doorway. I tell y’, fren’, it kept
six on us goin’ all the time changin’ them curtins
an’ draggm’ ’em out to the bongfire at the back.
The screams of the flies wot got themselves caught
was dreadful to ear. Ihe way the game was
played was this: —We’d git in the dinin’-room an’
drive all ther flies out, an’ block up ther chimney
an’ winder an’ door an’ cracks an’ key-’ole. Then
we’d sit round ther table, each with a fly-paper in
fronter ’im, an’ the referee ’ud loose six selected
flies outer a match-box, an’ ther man wat got one
on ’is paper fust ’ud take ther pool. Talk about
excitement! A fly ’ud come ’overin’ round’ yer
paper tryin’ to make up ’is mind where to land,
an’ then maybe ’e’d change ’is mind an’ light out
acrost the room an’ fool round coquettish like,
pertendin’ ’e wuz goin’ to settle, till we was near
dead with suspense.
..“.We'd bin playin’ the game ’bout a month with
various success, when Brumby begun to ’ave a
marvell’us run o’ luck. Miraculous it were—agin
natur’ so ter speak. Well, we watched fer ’im
pretty close, an then one time, when the referee
sed ‘ Go, ’ we noticed Brumby opin ’is fist caushus-
like under the table an’ out ’ops a big, black fly.
It ’overed roun’ an’ ioun’ till Brumby give a little
whistle, when down it swoops straight on to ’is
paper. Then Brumby ’e collected an’ left the
room, takm’ ’is fly-paper along with ’im. I crept
arter ’im very quiet and there, at the back, I seed
’im tenderly washin’ that fly orfer the paper with
warm water.
“ Well, I squashed ther animal wi’ me paw—the
fly I mean—an’, I ’sure y’, Brumby mourned over
that there insect wusser nor ’e did wat time ’is
missis died.
“ We let the little incident pass, so ter speak,
an’ ‘ Fly Monte ’ went on as usual. Imajine ’ow
we felt when, arter a while, Brumby begun to win
agin ! Couldn’t go wrong no ’ow. Now Brumby
was a large size in Irishmen, ’sides bein’ th’ on’y
publican within a ’undred mile, so we daren’t
cTend him, so ter speak. But I tell y’ we watched
an’ watched till we near strained our eyesight,
but couldn’t see nuthin’ crook no ’ow. All this
time Brumby jist kept on winnin’ an’ winnin’
We tried leavin’ orf the game, but if y’d ever
played it, y’d know ’ow ’opeless that were— like
leavin’ orf ther drink.
“ Then one night we cotched ’im. ’Twas the
las’ pool o’ th’ ev’nin’ with a big stake, an’ excite-
ment was ’igh. The flies was very shy, an’ kept
themselves to themselves, so ter speak. We
could see Brumby was lookin’ anxious an’ sur-
prised, when we ’ears a terrible buzzin’ an’ hulla-
buloom’ from th’ ceilin’. We all looked up an’
there, caught in a spider’s web, was one of’’em
little coekshaver beetles. At that moment ’e
broke loose, stopped ’is cursing, an’ noiseless as a
shadder stieaked acrost to th* lamp, roun J which
the six flies wuz congregated, so ter speak. ’E
give a rush an’ cut one outer th’ mob, an’ herded
im like e wuz a cattle dorg, and, finally, damme
tn k c , se . im straight onto Brumby’s paper.
WeH, mate y kin quite imagine it kinder put the
kybosh on the game.” '
The stranger rose up as the starting-bell rang
for the next race, and took my cigar and his own
departure.
ALF. BRASCH.


The Kind that Cures
A Family Medicine. A Household Remedy. A Splendid Tonic.
Used with Satisfactory Resuits, Always.
Mr. Frank P. Peacock, of Given
Terrace, Paddington, Queensland,
sends us his photograph, and
says:
“I have used Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla in my family for indigestion,
loss of appetite, and as a tonic,
■with very satisfactory results,
and have been pleased to recom-
mend it to my friends, who, in
many cases, have used it with
equal satisfaction. Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla is a household remedy
throughout Queensland, and is
the kind that cures.”
This is one of the best things
you can say about Ayer’s Sarsa-
saparilla: “It is a household
remedy.” Keep iton hand. Then,
just as soon as any member of
the family begins to complain,
he can take a few doses and be
quickly cured.
Of course nature intended that every one should feel strong and vigorous
all the time. We are usually to blame if we do not enjoy this good health.
We are overworked, worry too much, have too many cares, and perhaps the
warm climate debilitates us. What shall we do ? Keep right on suffering
in this way? Or take medicine that will remove every impurity from the
blood, make the blood rich and red, and give vigor and tone to the nerves ?
Such a medicine is Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A medicine that has been sold for
over sixty years.
When you ask for Sarsaparilla be sure to use the word “ Ayer’s.” There
is no other Sarsaparilla like it. Look out for imitations.
AYER’S 8 arsaparilla
Just the Tonic for Warm Climates.
Ayer’s Pills—Sugar-Coated. A Gentle Laxative.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AVER CO., Dowell, Hass.. T 7. S. A.
m
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 Greorgfe Street,
ffl'!srX>3Xr3E!‘3r.
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
lalsant'Aniseeif
■ For,) COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS.
► Safe for Children.
ANIS£^P
.Of all Chemists & Stores. Be sure
get Powell's with above
Tirade Mari.
ITS-
YOU GAN CURE AT HOME
the Worst Oases of BJTB. Treatment simple; results
DROOPS, *c., FREE.
Or 6 bottles, 31/- (enough fora months); 13bottles,
56/-, carriage paid.
Mr. Qnagtrr Pm, 4* gnow-hfU. Hanley, Eng.
f^rtinkennes^
a—«„
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
jsr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
cravihg for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will
surprise and delight you.
on ic of many:
Ravensthovpe, W.A.. SC-S-04
Bare fin ished the half course, which has effected
a cure. I have no desire for drink, in fact have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
Yours gratefully, RG.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address -
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S , Eng.
129 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
O'? R I CO RO’S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNEBS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Ausb'alasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; N.S.W.— Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Bydney; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
YEARS DYEIKTG
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C- ELBBIDG-E & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from dll the colonies promptly
attended to.
DR. JOLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPYNE
" j&r
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, GOLDS,
ASTHMA, BBOHCHITIS,
DIAEEHCEA, bear ® «n
the Government Stomp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
CHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28 1806, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusiou of all
others, I should say Chlobodynb. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
4i best recommendation.”
WEAK MADE STRONG-1
68
&
I
Energy and Vigos.
Post Free.
OUR Electric Appliance
pours glowing, exhilar-
ating Vitality into you
while you sleep. It Animates
the sluggish circulation,
Stimulates the Brain to
Activity, and fills the body
with Life, Ambition, and
Endurance. It furnishes
the Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Catalogue and Price List
| ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sytinoy.
AN INTERESTING-
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
QlB
DEAF
m
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. HAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent Dy mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address i HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
For Strenuous Life
I it is necessary to have your system in good
working order—to have an energy born of
perfect health and strength each organ
kept in free action, and BEECHAFVS PILLS
are foremost of the few things that will do it.
For Active Brains
your liver must be right, your stomach in a
healthy condition, and your kidneys properly
performing their peculiar functions. If you
would have a clear head and keen perception,
get a box of BE EC HAM’S PILLS, use them
| and see how much more alive you will be.
For Perfect Health
II there is no greater promoter than these
famous pills. You will find it so all over the
I world, and there are thousands of perfectly
' sound and healthy people who owe their
0 ■
jj healthiness to the use of
Beeeham's
Pills.
6,000,000 BOXES SOLD ANNUALLY.
rr T" , : d !: rdy . ly Thomas Bsecham, St. Helens, Eng.
n ■ ——■"■■■—«■
Sold everywhere. Boxes 10id., Is. and 2s. 9d.
i
There’s SECURITY in
ARTEC'S
ITTLE
SVER
PI LLS,
V
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. ]
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUGH
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small PrlotS
Carter's
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id.
Free.
A CARD.
DR. MARTIN, M.L., Edin.,
M.8.C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.P.P.S.Q.,
Grierson Bursar and Medallist, University ot Edinburgh ; formerly Member of the Royal Medical Society of
Edinburgh ; Late Assistant Demonstrator in Practical Zoology, University of Edinburgh ; Member of the General
Council of the University of Edinburgh, etc., etc. Formerly Medical Superintendent and Visiting Surgeon to
four of Australasia’s Hospitals ; Surgeon-in-Charge of Troops, South African War ; Author of “ Mind Over Mat-
ter,” “ The Diseases of Men and Women,” etc., may he consulted personally or by letter, FREE, athi3 consulting
rooms ’ “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY.
He makes no charge for a friendly chat or confidential talk. Being a Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, and a Specialist in all
Private, Nervous, Skin, & Urinary Complaints,
Patients entrusting themselves to his care have the advice of a iuoroughly Competent and Trustworthy
Physician, who treats all cases at moderate charges, and guarantees a cure in all cases undertaken by him.
Send for Dr. Martin’s book, “ Mind Over Matter,” posted FREE on receipt of six stamps. Also Specimen
Copies of “ The Diseases of Men and Women,” posted FREE to any address on receipt of six stamps.
Consultation by Letter—FßEE.
A Limited Number af RESIDENT Patients received at Dr. Martin’s Private Hospital, and special attention
given to all cases that have failed to get relief elsewhere.
DR. MARTIN. M.D..
“ Elmley House/' 151 Elizabeth-st., City.
(Please mention tlus paper when writing.)


INDIA RUBBER
Are a necessity in every home.
Splendid in health or sickness.
Retaining the heat for many
hours. Made of best heavy
English Rubber.
LOWEST PRICES:
PRICE
Without Covers.
.. 6s. (id. each
- 7s -
- 7s. 6d „
- Bs. „
_ Bs. 6d „
Size.
lOin. x 6in.
lOin. x 7in.
lOin. x Bin.
12in. x Bin.
12ia. x lOin.
Complete
With Covers.
7s. 3d.
7s. 9d.
Bs. 3d.
9s.
9s. 6d.
Ltd.
Perdriau Rubber Go.
(Late Perdriau and Co.),
MERCHANTS,
270 George Street, Sydney
A Pofiicy for the
CosnmonweaSth.
PRICE, 6d.; POSTED, Bd.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensers, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
m
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
Ghf
Abb
.
j*
07
AA
<e.L
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
WOLF
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at—
** THEM BLOCK,”
Collins-St.. MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cast* and entrance fitted with electric Elevator.
n
ANDING
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAt IS CLAIMED TOR IT.
ft will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from HL
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
BLACK , KBD, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases):—
PRICK IN MELBOURNE _ .. ppr
. - 4/-
MELBOURNI
SYDNEY (E. Rich * Co.. Md.)
Qbiibn,
BRISBANE (E. Rich St Co., Ltd.) m
HOBART (Wm. Crosby St Co.) _
fc/-
4/-
&
m
AS
WELZ.
MINS KG MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS,
3E81A.-W3E2 IKT SI-OCOEE ~amsWß&>.
All K
Wood
Shafting 1
Hangers
Piymmer Blocks
Collars
Couplings
Reamers
Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces f
Emery Wheels and Grinders, ail kinds of Lubricators,
Starrett Fine BVBechanical Tools, etc-, etc., etc.
writ.forPricosto_ 6o clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W
THE BALLET GIRL
m
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Foal Fraa, la
The Life, Adventures
and Confeusieaa el a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
toat Fraa, la.
Bond Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
IV! ad am e Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
m
QN receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 6/- w* will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handoomo
9ct. Gold-fillod Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
fn 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Geld Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcas.de, Melbourne, Vic.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM.
I Used your valuable Remedy for
COUGH & COLD
f OVER THIRTY YEARS
In my family with great success.’’
— J. Mall, Schtool-house, E.
A
AGENIS.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS St CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNiVEB
urm tt».
PEST.
m
NT Alt
TIMST-Gum
Storm
IN AUSTKAUMA.
No. 8160.
1 Bladx.
Cocoa Hand !• -f/»
Buffalo Handle * f/6
Stag Handle • • « //6
TO
Size, 6j x x 5".
are
ancS have
tor Sa.Sc—
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
for ail
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 OLA.RE3STCE STREET, aXESTET.
SAVE MONEY SN YOUR FORGE by using
Works Without Water. Saves 25 per cent, of Coal and 25 per cent, of Time.
Hiats the Blast. WILL NOT CHOKE OR BURN.
•WJYC
-
Leading Mines and Engineers throughout Australasia, and by nearly all Smiths.
INNUMERABLE % TESTIMONIALS.
t ftgßg»-~ n. GUTHRiDGE, LTD.
17 Bond Street, Sydney,
486 Collins St-, Melbourne
