

D. H. BURKE’S “GALLEON
WA-TM-IMS «SC. CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
. * : '
&
BE
-
jaioßAxi'r.
—m —-
fiadleysjjn
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
BroadDont’s Direct
Steam, Bolt anti
Electrically-driven
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
For Drying WOOL,
Making MEAT EXTRACT,
Drying SUGAR, <Lc. # to
sol* **•«*•-
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND AND TO ARRIVE.
GIBSON, BATTLE &C° ■« pit. str«t. SYDNEY.
BOTTLED IN
SCOTLAND
1
WHISKY
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
TlaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,004,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security .
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). jjt GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted. “»d
Guti for tUaM&ti) '(fted Gdlcuy ' (irlioKty'
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
1/3
MeINTYRE BROS
u
2/-
DAILY
TREAT!
PS
I
Royal
Dutch
mm
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FOI^
l Aroma,Streivjtfu'Purity:
I
BREWERS, WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
and CORDIALS.
m
m
REGULAR PATT
CAMERON STEAM, AIR,
and POWER PUMPS.
SIMPLEST and UNBREAKABLE.
STRONGEST.
FOR BOILER FEEDING,
MINING and CHEMICAL WORKS)
SHAFT SINKING andJRRIGATION.
POWER PUMP.—Cut illustrates size 7x12
VERTICAL SINKING PUMPS
A SPECIALTY.
DIFFERENTIAL PLUNGERS for GRITTY WATER,
HELD.
SOLE AGENTS—
W. and J. LESfiPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
L
Vertloal Plunger Sinking Pumpg
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s. \
■WWgB
MOP!
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever issued in Australia.
“ Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced.
A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS GlFlfr
HEUuiON . SPA —“Stands pre-eminent as a Table Water.
»
The Bulletin
VoJ. 26—No. 1313.]
[Thursday, April 13, 1905.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THIS WEEK’S NEW BOOKS.
Constantine the Great (Heroes of the Nations), ss.
Mark Twain, A Dog’s Tale, 2s 6d, post 4d.
Nordenskjold & Anderson, Antarctica, 21s, post lOd.
Matthay, First Princ. of Piano Playing, 2s Cd, post 4d.
Thudicum, Cookery : Its Art and Practice, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Schultz, Diseases of Elect. Machinery, 2s 6d, post 4d.
Runciman, Gas and Oil Engines, 9d posted.
Greg, Creed of Christendom, R.P.A. Series, Sd posted.
Nevinson, Books and Personalities, 6s, postage Gd.
Golf, Florence (Black’s Beautiful Books), i>4s, postage Is 4d.
McCabe, Religion of Women, R.P.A. Series, 3s posted.
Gould, Moral Lessons, Ist Series, R.P.A. Series, 8d posted.
Schneider, Dry Batteries, and How to Make Them, Is 9d,
. post 3d. Schofield, Nerves in Order, 3s6d, postage 6d.
JEWEL'S STORY BOOK,
.18H UI ,IBldl3t|Q y
‘wvHNana asmoi vavio
author of “ The Ri«-ht Princess,” “ Jewel
Illustrated. Price 3s 6d, 4d posted.
& CO.
_ _ __ '
PROP. LTD., 71 Castlereagh Street, Sydney .
FOR INFLUENZA,BRONCHITIS,
AS THM A,& ALL AFFECTIONS OF
THE THROAT£, LUNGS,& P^ V c Smpt, 0N
IDEM.BEMEDY.
> Con lain no Cocaine
or other poisonmsdrm
uni!
Registered.
51 51
■_:.v
SOLD ey ALL CHEMISTS, /JS.
THE GREAT
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY.,
FOR COUCHS . COLDS , SORE THROAT, LO??S OF VOICE.
Sold in Tins, 1/6, or Post Free on receipt of stamps from the Sole Manufacturer, C. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
Queensland. SYDNEY DEPOT—S and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all (the Australian States & New Aeai .
LONDON AGENT—\Y. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 liegent Street W.
THE RED PAGE.
WHEN THE DEVIL WAS SICK
THE devil a saint would be. But Saint
Oscar !—the deformed transformed !
O sancta pudicitia ! Black’s white ;
Wilde’s tame ; and the chapel of Read-
ing gaol shall have a stained glass window to
the Sorrowful Martyr, with his tins in one
hand, his polishing rag t in the other,
and his ecstatic eyes fixed earnestly
on the blessed pages of the prison Bible.
“Every morning,” writes the new British
saint, “after I had qleaned my cell and
polished my tins, I read a little of the
Gospels, a dozen verses taken by chance
anywhere. It Is a delightful way of opening
the dag.”
Poor devil!
The British Nation takes this seriously ;
the Nonconformist conscience is stirred to
its sad depths. De Profundis is ‘ ‘ irresis-
tibly fascinating and helpful,” says The Echo.
* ‘ Society has vindicated itself towards
this sinner, and can afford to be Christian to
his memory,” urges The Westminster Gazette.
(You will find Christian British Society in
Pigs in Glover and Algernon Gasterton, or in
the last scandalous success of Dolf Wyllard
or Violet Hunt.) And The Daily News, the
“organ of the great middle classes,” the
ascetic journal of cocoa and renunciation,
admitting no base profits from sporting
advertisements, adds its weighty word. “He
Profundis passes immediately to its place
amongst those confessions in which men,
through great bitterness and the experience
of the raw edges of misery and shame, are
able to testify to a meaning and purpose in
it all.”
That settles it. Now Oscar Wilde’s books
may be read, his plays may be Staged again.
It is clear that there is moral profit in them,
and monetary. Some British people were
' beginning to grow uneasy at tlie thought of
monetary profit missed. Now, in the nick
of time, comes De Profundis to reconcile
Mammon and God once more, launching the
Unmentionable Artist down admiring British
ages as a Great Moral Lesson.
Mr. William Watson should write a sonnet
about it.
De Profundis is Oscar Wilde’s just-pub-
lished book of his meditations in Reading
gaol. It is very sad in itself, and very funny
in its relationships. Wilde saw the sadness,
but he did not see the fun : he had no sense
of humour. Like all fine artists, he took
nothing seriously but himself, and himself
he took very seriously. Comes moral Britain
to this gay butterfly, fluttering hither and
thither irresponsibly, and breaks it on the
bitterest wheel. The whimsical Irishman
under prison regulations, the aesthete pick-
ing oakum, the apostle of New Greece shut
up with the Gospels : these are some of
Fate’s tremendous ironies. And the irony
has entered into Wilde’s soul.
Is he sincere ? does he deceive himself ?
At least he does not deceive himself all the
time. But his new pose carries him away—
him weak, him dazed, him broken by
disaster. If it were profoundly calculated
for his public—“a perishing actor’s last
ambiguous gesture of salutation to the dense,
triumphant world, ” as E. Thomas calls it :
still, the actor may forget himself in his
part. Wilde has forgotten. He is there in
the depths of woe, in prison, with the prison
Bible to preserve his sanity. And he is
struck with the likeness between two Men of
Sorrows. He discusses Christ as the
precursor of the Romantic ‘ Movement
in Art—-he the follower. ; “Christ and
Me ” is the text of De Prof undis :
varied occasionally to “Me ' and Christ.”
One Can see The Daily News doubting
whether to dub the author Saint or Blas-
phemer. Says Wilde :
I see in Christ not merely the essentials of the
supreme romantic type, but all the accidents, the
wilfulness even, of the romantic temperament
also. He was the first person who ever said to
people that they should live “flower-like lives.”
He fixed the phrase. He took children as the
type of what people should try to become. He
held them up as examples to their elders, which I
myself have always thought the chief use of chil-
dren, if what is perfect should have a use.
And St. Oscar lived a flower-like life. The
satirist saw him walking down Piccadilly
“ Avith a rose-bush or a lily in his medieval
hand.” And St. Oscar held up children as
examples. If Britain had not canonised him,
the conjunction would be .. . curious. But
to a saint all things are saintly.
One remembers little Emmy telling Diana
of the Crossways about the beauty and utility
of sorrow. Wilde embroiders the theme in
the intervals of pounding oakum. “Sorrow,
be thou my Joy ! ” he cries in effect.
“Pleasure for the beautiful body, but pain
for the beautiful soul,” says the poor sick
devil that would be or appear to be saint.
And the spectacle of this shattered artist
on the edge of religious insanity fills the
British middle classes with pious joy. Where
it is earnest,' De Profuhdis yeads like the last
faint cry of an infidel expiring at the Chris-
tian stake. There is “a meaning and pur-
pose in it all', ” says The Daily Neivs. The
meaning is the pleasure that the sufferings
of heretics give to the holiest heart.
WHEN THE SAINT WAS HEEL
It is better to be beautiful than to be good, but
it is better to be good than to be ugly.
Twenty years of romance make a woman look
like a ruin ; but twenty years of marriage make
her something like a public building.
It is always a silly thing to give advice, but to
give good advice is.fatal.
Women have a wonderful instinct about things.
I hey discover everything except the obvious.
I never quarrel with actions, my one quarrel is
with words. That is the reason I hate vulgar
realism in literature. The man who could call a
spade a spade should be compelled to use one. It
is the only thing he is fit for.
It takes a thoroughly good woman to do a
thoroughly stupid tlaing.
There are three kinds of despots. There is the
despot who tyrannises over the body. There is
the despot who tyrannises over the soul. There
is the despot who tyrannises over soul,and body
alike. Ihe first is called the prince. The second
is called the pope. The third is called the people.
Shallow sorrows and shallow loves live on. The
loves and sorrows that are great are destroyed by
their own. plenitude.
Moderation is a fatal thing. Nothing succeeds
like excess.
In art there is no such thing as a uniyersal
truth. A truth in art is that whose contradictory
is also true.
One’s days are too brief to take the burden of
another’s sorrows on one’s shoulders. Each man
lives his own life, and pays his own price for living
it. The only pity is that one has to pay so often
for a .single fault. One has to pay over and over
again, indeed. In her dealings with man, Destiny
never closes her accounts.
Pleasure is Nature’s test, her sign of approval.
ben we are happy we are always good, but
n we are good we are not always happy.
. ne people who love only once in their lives are
really the shallow people. What they call their
loyalty and their fidelity I call either the lethargy
or custom or their lack of imagination.
Plain women are always jealous of their hus-
bands; beautiful women never "are. They never
have time. They are always so occupied in being
jealous of other people’s husbands.
A man who moralises is usually a hypocrite,
and a woman who moralises is invariably plain.
There is nothing in the whole world so unbecom-
ing to a woman as a nonconformist conscience.
And most women know it, I am glad to say.
It was a fatal day when the public discovered
that the pen is mightier than the paving-stone
and can be made as offensive as a brickbat.
Musical people are so absurdly unreason-
able. They always want one to be perfectly dumb
at the very moment one is longing to be abso-
lutely deaf.
Wicked women bother one. Good women bore
one. That is the only difference between them.
The soul is born old, but grows young. That is
the comedy of life. The body is born young, and
grows old. That is life’s tragedy.
The past is of no importance. The present is
of no importance. It is with the future that we
have to deal. For the past is what men should not
have been. The present is what men ought not
to be. The future is what artists are.
Life is simply a “mauvais quart d’heure”
made up of exquisite moments.
The two weak points in our age are its want of
principle, and its want of profile.
There are only two kinds of people who are
really fascinating—people who know absolutely
everything and people who know absolutely
nothing.
Women give to men the very gold of their
lives. Possibly ; but they want it back in such
very small change.
Define woman as a sex ?—Sphinxes without
secrets.
There is no secret of life: Life’s aim, if it has
one, is simply to be always looking for tempta-
tions. There are not nearly enough of them ; I
sometimes pass a whole day without coming across
a single one.
There are two ways of disliking art. One is to
dislike it, and the other is to like it rationally.
The Renaissance was great because it sought to
solve no social problem, and busied itself not about
such things, but suffered the individual to develop
freely, beautifully, and naturally, and so had great
and individual artists and great and individual
men.
When one is in love one begins by deceiving one-
self, and one ends by deceiving others. That is
what the world calls a romance.
I adore simple pleasures. They are the last
refuge of the complex.
There is nothing like youth. The middle-aged
are mortgaged to life. The old are in life’s lumber
room. But youth is the lord of life. Youth has
a kingdom waiting for it. Everyone is born a
king, and most people die in exile—like most
kings.
Society, civilised society at least, is never very
ready to believe anything to the detriment of
those who are both rich and fascinating. It in-
stinctively feels that manners are of more im-
portance than morals, and in its opinion the
highest respectability is of much less value than a
good chef. And, after all, it is a very poor con-
solation to be told that the man who has given
one a bad dinner or poor wine is irreproachable in
his private li/e. Even the cardinal virtues cannot
atone for half-cold entrees.
We are all in the gutter, but some of us are
looking at the stars.
Men always want to be a woman’s first love.
That is their clumsy vanity. Women have a more
subtle instinct about things. What they like is
to be a man’s last romance.
All men are married women’s property. That
is the only true definition of what married
women’s property really is.
All women become like their mothers : that is
their tragedy. No man does : that is his.
Women are a fascinating, wilful sex. Every
woman is a rebel, and usually in wild revolt
against herself.
All art is immoral.
One should absorb the colour of life, but one
should never remember its details. Details are
always vulgar.
The one charm of the past is that it is the past.
But women never know when the curtain has
fallen. They always want a sixth act, and as soon
as the interest of the play is entirely over they
propose to continue it.
What is a cynic ? A man who knows the price
of everything and the value of nothing.
What is the difference .-between literature and
journalism ? Journalism is unreadable and litera-
ture is ui*read. *
What nonsense people talk about happy mar-
riages ! A man can be happy with any woman
so long as he does not love her.
Modern morality consists in accepting the
standard of one’s age. I consider that for any
man of culture to accept the standard of his age is
a form of the grossest immorality.
Sin is a thing that writes. itself across a man’s
face. It cannot be concealed. People talk some-
times of secret vices. There are no such things.
If a wretched man has a vice, it shows itself in
the lines of his mouth, the droop of his eyelids, the
moulding of his hands even.
The only, artists I have ever known who are
personally delightful are bad artists. Good artists
exist simply on what they make, and consequently
are perfectly uninteresting in what they are.
The tragedy of old age is not that one is old,
but that one is young.
The “Peerage” is the one book a young man
about town should know thoroughly, and it is the
best thing in fiction the English have ever done.
The only difference between the saint and the
sinner is - that every saint has a past and every
sinner has a future.
Exainifiations are pure humbugs from beginning
to end. If a man is a gentleman he knows quite
enough, and if he is not a gentleman, whatever he
knows is bad for him.
The way of paradoxes is the way of truth. To
test reality, we must see it on the tight-rope.
When the verities become acrobats we can judge
them.
Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, j ust as
nothing dm cure the senses but the soul.
The aim of life is self-development. To realise
one’s nature perfectly—that is what each of us' is
here for.
Every great man nowadays has his • disciples,
and it is invariably Judas who writes the bio-
graphy.
Many a young man starts in life with a natural
gift for exaggeration, which, if matured in con-
genial and Sympathetic surroundings, or by the
imitation of the.best models, might' grow into
something really great and wonderful. But, as a
rule, he comes to nothing. He either falls into
careless habits of accuracy, or takes to frequent-
ing the society of the aged and well-informed.
Both things are equally fatal to his imagination.
Men always fall into the absurdity of endea-
vouring to develop the mind, to push it violently
forward in this direction or in that. The mind
should be receptive, a harp waiting to catch the
winds, a pool ready to be ruffled, not a bustling
busybody for ever trotting about on the pavement
looking for a new bun shop.
All bad art comes from returning to life and
nature, and elevating them into ideals. Life and
nature may sometimes be used as part of art’s
rough material, bu| before they are of any real ser-
vice to art they must be translated into artistic
conventions. The moment art surrenders its
imaginative medium it surrenders everything. As
a method realism is a complete failure, and the
two things that every artist should avoid are
modernity of form and modernity of subject-
matter.
London is too full of fogs and serious people.
Whether the fogs produce the serious people or
whether the serious people produce the fogs, I
don’t know.
3Vlan can believe the impossible, but he can
never believe the improbable.
Education is an admirable thing, but it is well
to remember from time to time that nothing that
is worth knowing can be taught.
Whenever a man does a thoroughly stupid thing
it is always from the noblest motives.
Nature hates mind.
The only difference between a caprice and a
lifelong passion is that the caprice lasts a little
longer.
Conscience and cowardice are really the same
things. Conscience is the trade name of the firm
—that is all.
I never take any notice of what common people
say, and I never interfere with what charming
people do.
You know I am not a champion of marriage.
The real drawback to marriage is that it makes
one unselfish, and unselfish people are colourless
—they lack individuality. Still there are certain
temperaments that marriage makes more complex.
They retain their egotism, and add to it many
Other egos. They are forced to have more than
one life. They become more organised, and to be
highly organised is, I should fancy, the object of
man’s existence. Besides, every experience is of
value, and whatever one may say against marriage
it is certainly an experience.
One knows so well the popular idea of health.
The English country gentleman gallops along
after a fox —the unspeakable in pursuit of the un-
eatable.
There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral
book. Books are well written or badly written—
that is all.
All art is at once surface and symbol.
Virtue is generally merely a form, of deficiency,
just as vice is an assertion of intellect.
One should never trust a woman who tells one
her real age. A woman who would tell one that,
would tell one anything. t
The world taken “ en., masse ” is a monster,
crammed with prejudices", packed with prepos-
sessions, cankered with What it calls virtues, a
Puritan, a prig. And the ait of life is the ait pf
defiance. To defy—that is wln>t we ought to live
for, instead of living, as we do, to acquiesce.
The world divides actions into three classes:
good actions, bad actions that you may do, and
bad actions that you may not do. If you stick to
the good actions you are respected by the good.
If you .stick to the bad actions that you may do,
you are respected by the bad. But if you perform
the bad actions that no one may do, then the good
and the bad set upon you, and you are lost indeed.
O. W.
THE DAY OF JUDGMENT.
Stars falling in thousands-; birds on the shoulders
of angels
Singing a mystical jargon; Negroes washt up by
the sea ; •
Arrow-heads pecking the valleys; prisms of pold
and of purple
Swarming with cherubim, children; d/ragons aU
over the.earth
Robbing the''sepulchred coffins... Ships with the
vapours of Hell
Swelling their sails and careening... Lanterns, seen
under the Ocean
Streamy, then hurriedly shrouded... Heads, of their
bodies dissevered,
Threatening each other with curses,, rolling blind
eyes in their sockets.
Mumbling the heels of the lover who gropes with his
feet on their faces*
To take to his arms a forlorn one.
Rivers of Money go streaming—straight from the
mines in the mountains
Smoking of Death and Destruction, and wreathing
icith sulphurous garlands
The harlot , as high as her bosom submerged in the
torrent...
Tigers at play by the ' light of a comet, held in the
:■ hand of a prisoner 'G gaunt
Whose gyves were forged at the stithy of Vulcan
under the earth by order of Mammon
Millions and millions of aeons of ceons ere ever the
seed of Knowledge and Evil.
Was .planted in Eden. -
N.S.W.
H. McC.
Wmtes “Beaumont S.”
Will Ashton, returned to Adelaide after several years’
study under Julius Olsson and Talmage at St. Ives,
Cornwall, and Boug-uereau, Basghet, and Schomnier at
Paris, has been exhibiting his work at his father’s
studio. He belongs to the New School, and has
exhibited in the Royal Academy and New Salon. There
is merit in his work, but not 'a dozen people in Ade-
laide are educated in an artistic sense to see it.
His exhibition has been fairly successful in sales, but (as
he says) “it’s heart-rending for a man to come up to;
you and offer a tenner for a picture that cost you about
12b to paint.”
Of Australian artists Ashton knew personally, he
says:—“ David Davies is down Cornwall way, doing good
work, for which he has a. market, There is something
particularly striking about his twilight and moonlight
effects. Phillips Fox is getting orders now for por-
trait work, and had. three pictimes in the Academy
last year. Louis Grier, who left Australia very
young, but still reckons- himself an. Australian,
came out here some years ago and held an. exhibition,
over which (so he tells me) he lost 000 b He has a peculiar
style of decorative work, and he sells-a good deal of it. A
very promising artist is Arthur Burgess, others are Pater-
son and Meldrum. I have named these few men in parti-
cular because their progress is seldom recorded, or their
names mentioned, in the press out here.”
H. Lawson supplies- a personal- paragraph :
Oh, Scotty, have you visited the Picture Gallery, and
did you see the portraits of the King and Queen and me?
The portraits made by Longstaff, and the pictures done
by Jack, of the King and Queen and Lawson and the lady
all in black ? The King is robed in Royal State, with
medals on his breast, and like the mother Queen, she is
Her Majesty is dressed.. The lady’s dressed in simple
black and sports no precious- stones, and I a suit of reach-
me-downs I bought from Davy Jones.. We ’re strangers
two to two-, and each unto the other three —I do not know
the lady and I don’t think, she knows me- We ’re strangers
to each other here, and to the other two, and they them-
selves are strangers yet if. all we hear is true. I s’pose
we’re just as satisfied as folks have ever been : the lady
would much rather be her own self than the Queen ; and,
though I’m down and precious “stiff ” and I admire King
Ned, I’d sooner just be Harry, with his follies on his head.
We four may meet together—stranger folk, have met, I
ween, than a rhymer and a monarch and. a lady and a
queen. Ned and I might talk it over on the terrace,
frank and free, with cigars, while Alexandra and the lady’s
having tea. Anyway, we’ll never quarrel while we’re
hanging on the wall—Friends ! we all have had our trou-
bles—we are human, one and all! If by chance we hang
together—hang together “on the line,” and the thing
should shock, the Godly—then, it’s- Longstaff 'a- fault, not
mine.
One begins to doubt all. scientific opinion in
seeing how learned doctors go astray over the
Australian aboriginal. A Saturday Review-e r of
Baldwin and Spencer and Howitt despairs- of the
Australian aboriginal. He was “ unable to till the
ground, bnild a nut, or even store up food against
bad seasons.” In Britain, where The Saturday
is published, it is necessary to do these things, for
reasons of soil and climate; therefore the
Briton measures the Australian by the rule
of liis own necessity, and . decides that he
falls short of British virtue. So did the
mythical Adam in the Garden of Eden. Why
till the ground where the pleasant earth brings
forth fruit abundantly ? or build huts in a sunny
clime where a shelter of bushes- suffices against
rain ? or store up food against bad: seasons that in
primitive Australia came so rarely that they came
never ? Really and truly, the primitive Australian
lived in Paradise : that is why he was- so unpro-
gressive, since progress is bred of discontent. Since
bis days were happy and long in the land, what
need to work at “living in houses and going to
offices”? These are the things done by “the
white slaves of England ” and others, because it
seems they must do. > And when a whole race
escapes from'the burden of British civilization, the
Briton shakes his wise head and commiserates—
the other fellow !
W. Chew : Received : thanks. . .'“ The Salon . des
Refuses” dates 1863. “1S83” (23/3/5) was one of the
blunders of sense that tend always to be overlooked by
an eye hunting for literal blunders... C.8.R.: At price
“up to a guinea” buy Chambers’s Eng. Dictionary in
half-leather (cost you is*.). It Is as full as ever you’ll
want ; up to date ; and (blessing of blessings) handy.. •
H. P. Gill’s purchase of FarquhaVson’s Romantic. Ground
for S.A. Gallery was thought dear at 400(. Question:
is it cheaper now that F. is A.R.A.? ,
A.G.S.


win.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FUR SKINS
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE. "PI
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
The CHEAPEST HOUSE for SPORTING COODS and TOBACCO.
FOOTBALLS
All Balls fitted with Best Quality
(IMPORTED) Red Rubber Bladders.
iRTTCKBY OIR .A.SSOCX.A.TIO2SL
m:
ft
1
.A
»
r-=>
K,
,
-h'-z'- -<■
gg
> ->/
29-
g:
■> AVA
NICHOLSON’S Men’s " Royal” Match Footballs, 7/0.
NICHOLSON’S “ Royal ” Hand Sewn Match, 9/6
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Special Royal ” Footballs, 11/0.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s Extra Special Stpd “A.N.A.,” 14/0
GILBERT’S Best Match Footballs, 12/0.
BRYAN’S “ Grasshopper ” Match Footballs, 13/6.
“ DIADEM ’’ Buttonless Match, Association only, 13/6.
SYKE’S “ Rival,” Association Match only, 10/-.
SYKE’S “Albion,” Association Match only, 11/6.
SYKE’S “ League Defiance,” Association Match only, 15/-.
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
Solid Leather, No. 1 ..
» » „ 2 ..
.. .. 3 ..
!> >1 >»
„ „ Match 11.
ASSOCIATION. s. d.
Solid Leather, No. 1 each 2 6
.. » 2 3 3
.. .. 3 3 9
.. .. „ 4 ,46
„ „ Match 111 „ 5 0
Special Youths’Match Ball, Best Quality.. „ 14 0
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra Special Value.
No. 1, Is. 9d. each. No. 2,2 s. 3d. each. No. 3,2 s. 9d. each. No. 4,3 s. 3d. each.
FOOTBALL BLADDERS (Imported). Red Rubber—Rugby or Association.
No. 1
.. 2
.. >
» *
s. d.
each 1 0
.. 1 4
~ 17
» 1 10
5
6, Association only •
5, Rugby only, Special Extra Stout
Rubber
s. d.
each 2 3
2/9, 3 3
each S 3
Wo can supply Colonial Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES Shin Guards.
s. d.
Stout Twill, with tapes .. .. . pair 1 0
Stout Twill, straps and buckles 13
Basil, leather straps and buckles .. .. „ 16
Brown Basil, extra large continuous leather
straps 2 0
Gold Cape, straps and buckles .. ~ 2 9
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather
straps pair 3 0
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, con-
tinuous straps, with or without ankle
pads
Same as above, larger size
4 0
5 0
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOT, blocked toe-cap, very light, * splendid
boot for Rugby, 10s Gd pair.
Extra Quality English-made BUCK SKIN BOOT (white), blocked toe and ankle
pads, guard over instep, very special quality, 14s 6d pair.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOTS, blocked toe-caps, with and without
ankle pads, 11s Gd, 12s 6d, 13s 6d pair.
BRASS INFLATORS —Is 3d, Is lOd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 6s 6d each.
UMPIRES’ WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS, 6d each. LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
Stout Web Belts, Double Straps and Pocket, Is 3d, 2s Gd each.
Solid Blocked Leather Ankle Guards, 2/6 set of 4
EAR CAPS —White Duck (open top), 3s each ; Buff Chamois
(netted crown), 3s 9d ea. ; Gold Cape (netted crown), 5s ea.
JERSEYS— Men’s Best Quality Navy, Royal Blue, Maroon or
Sky in single colors. Royal and Gold, Sky and Maroon,
Maroon and Gold, Black and Cardinal, Light and Dark
Blue, Black and White, Royal and White, Red and White,
Navy and White, Cardinal and Royal, Black and Royal,
Green and Red, Black and Gold, Green and Gold, in 2-inch
bars, 48/- dozen ; 4/3 each.
&
DfftSV
3/6
m
mm
<rr>
Handicap
STANbAftb
7/3
Ascot
2/6
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. '2ss
“ E.6.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz .
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s (id
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
BOXING GLOVES.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Bovs’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting ,
Gloves, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; |
60z., 12s Gd set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois,
Champion shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
IPSF** Illustrated Sports, Fishing Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
AUCHTERLONIE’S CLUBS-
Drivers, Cleeks, Irons or
Mashies 6s 9d
Bulger Brassies .. .. 7s 6d
Straight or Bent Neck •,
Patent Putters.. .. 8s
“8.G.1.” CLUBS-
“ Fairfield ” Drivers,
Brassies and Irons .. 4s 6d
First Quality Drivers,
Brassies and Irons .. 5s Cd
SPALDING’S CLUBS—
“ Morristown ” Brassies .. 6s 6d
“ Crescent ” Drivers,
Brassies or Irons .. 6s 9d
GOLF BALLS—
Ayres’ Practice, 10s 6d doz.
“ Silvertown,” 15s 6d doz.
Haskell, Wizard, or Spring-
vale Eagle, 80s doz.
7*
We have the best selection of GOLF
MATERIAL in Australia.
Golf Sundries of every description stocked.
L
PUNCHING BALLS.
Swinging Ball, complete, with best
quality Red Rubber Bladder-
-78 6d, lls 6d, 16b, 18s, 20b, 21b,
265, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete— l6s 6d, 16b 6d,
18s 6a, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fixing ball. 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rubber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels—
Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 8s 6d each
SPECIAL REDUCTION
To advertise this Favorite
and up-to-date Rifle, the
Manufacturers have de-
cided to REDUCE the
Selling Price
FOR ONE
MONTH
ONLY .
The Celebrated “ Maine ” Rifle,
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights
to 300yds., Bolt Action, 18in.
Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut
Stock. Shoots 22 Short, Long,
’THE MAINE
Pifle
tShewtnt/ Pifle Apart.
PRICE 12j6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE, 1/3 EXTRA,
or Extra Long Cartridges. Weight, 2|lb.
CONICAL BALI
AMMUNITION.
Guti Cartridges.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is Sd ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s M
#?/ffe Cartridges ,
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
22 Long
„ 22 Long Rifle ..
„ 22 Extra Long..
$ 100 $ 1000
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Od 10s
Is 3d 12s
Is 6d 13s
28 Od 18s
SoS2
ƒg
“The Reliable,”
PRICE £6 12s 6d
rsA/c
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Sfnap I' ore-end,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
HOLLIS £z SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12-
Top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen's steel barrels, both choke, side
f ° cofpfv bolt extended rib, Deeley-Edg-e patent fore-end, fitted with
lock action, automatic safety
AtT' S\IOKELESS POWDER S, and’ absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States ..
£l2 12s
fhsdf
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight
6 Jib.
£5
m.
X
Si
m
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun,
lever, twist barrels, extension r
12 or 16 gauge, top
ib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. & E. fore-end, pistol
frip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
40s
tegg=£=g±
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifle
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 31b. 15s
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V g. d.
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2slb. ... 18 6
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 341 b .. 188
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.-^H
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market, Sydney.


33 R. A 3EX T X 3XT, nVE. TD. }
L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.P.P.S.G.
GRIERSON BURSAR AND MEDALLIST, UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH; FORMERLY MEMBER OF THE
ROYt'L MEDICAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH ; LATE ASSISTANT DEMONSTRATOR IN PRACTICAL
ZOOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH ; MEMBER OF THE GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF EDINBURGH, ETC., ETC. FORMERLY MEDICAL SUPERINTENDENT AND VISITING SURGEON TO
FOUR OF AUSTRALASIA’S LEADING HOSPITALS.
With these widely-recognised qualifications, combined with unswerving faithfulness to his patients during his
extended practice, he has attained a well-deserved pre-eminence in their treatment. All those suffering from any
complaints should consult Dr. MARTIN, always feeling certain that by so doing they will find a friend in need ;
one who will not turn a deaf ear to them, be their complaint what it may. Many, on the other hand think that
H cause their mscular system is strongly developed, they do not require attention. This is a fallacy; for
apparently d symptoms often lead to the most disastrous results.
SYMPTOMS.
Dimness of Vision, Dark-circled, Bloodshot, or Sore Eyes, Headaches, Foul Breath, Difficulty in Breathing,
Decaying Teeth, Lassitude, General Weakness, Uncertain Temper, Constipation, Piles, Giddiness, Bad Taste in the
iMouth, Indigestion., Wind on the Stomach, Constant Desire for Change, Bashfulness, Weakness Across the Back,
Hacking Cough, Desire for Solitpde, Acne (Blackheads), Rough, Unhealthy Skin, or Sallow Complexion, Craving
for Stimulants, Eruptions on the Face, Neck, Back, or Chest ; Perspiring or Sore Hands or Feet; Toothache, Neu
ralgia, Pains in the Head, Oozing of Saliva from the Mouth during sleep, Giddiness on rising from a stooping
position, Shortness of Breath, Palpitation of the Heart, Fear of Insanity, Inclination to Suicide. Send for Dr.
i MARTIN’S instructive work on DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN. This- work will be forwarded FREE to any
.part of the world, on receipt of stamps to cover postage. Many patients who have been treated by unprincipled,
uneducated quacks, feel dubious about writing even to a Physician and Surgeon so widely known and universal I \
! respected as Dr. MARTIN. Dr. MARTIN has CURED thousands of patients who had'been thus defrauded, by
.advice alone. If .you feel doubtful as to the nature of your malady, or whether, indeed, you require treatment at
all, sit down quietly at home, and write to Dr. MARTIN. He will, on receiving same, WITHOUT CHARGING A
FEE, reply courteously 7, telling' you plainly what is the matter with you, and what is required to effect a cure. Dr.
MARTIN may be consulted FREE. Dr. Martin’s Private Hospital is the most complete, up-to-date institution of
its kind in Australasia. All communications should be addressed to
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Cellular
Underwear,
Shirts,
Pyjamas, £lc.
And
Ladies ’
Underwear
of every description,
Samples, Pamphlets and Pries
■ Z:l
m
m
m
SS<4
MI
m
11
30!
m
m
m
«IEVKfI
m
iw
mm
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
£OLE AGENTS,
75 King-street, Sydney
hsdgh
sdhgsd
ghsd
ghsd
ghsdg
nO f J PiTLTJEPAP
spscialgu;
M
' BY
ROYALTY.
Will do more to give you a feeling o' youth and brightness than all the drugs in
the pharmacopoeia. The hard street is made as soft and pleasant to walk on as a grass
lawn. Saves ten times their cost in tne boot bill.
Render worn down heels impossinle, relieve spinal concussion thus saving th; nerves
and reducing fatigue. Sold by every up-to-date boot and shoe dca er and gene al storekeeper.
CAin/OfS—See She name “ YtfOQD-MILNE ” a i aviry Pad.
Sole Agents for AUSTRALASI A, D. & W. MURRAY, Ltd.
Adelaide. Kalgoorlle. Launceston, Townsville. Perth. Melbourne. Brisbane. Broken Hill.
Sole Manufacturers of the Wo'd-.\Ulne Hals REVOLVING HEEL Co., Preston. ENGLAND.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT'
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, /_ND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLED.
NEVER F~AI L.O.
Ask youp Chenrst for the Little Eock:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES’*
CURED
9
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
FRUIT biu “ s « ks '
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTIO:4.-Sm Capsule marked ENO’3 ‘ FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT' WORKS, LONDON. ENG.,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
THE “MELBA” ACCORDEON.
g
4-fe
\XfE do not recommend the “ fIELBA ” because it is lower in price
” than others, such may be true, but because the “fIELBA”
excels all others in the most important quality an instrument can
possess— TONE.
This is the result of the superior quality of the alloy used in the
reeds, and the employment of experts in reed “ voicing',” an art which is
imperfectly understood by the ordinary maker of Accordeons.
The “ fIELBA ” ACCORDEON, No. 717, is fitted with three
sets of reeds, nine fold double bellows, leather lined corners fitted with
metal protectors.
To anyone mentioning The Bulletin we will send the above Post
Free for 205., including Carl Bruno’s Accordeon Tutor, containing
Popular Songs, Waltzes, &c.
ALLAN’S, 276, 278 Coilins-street, Melbourne,
the
‘ PLUIVT
W/l/M
Tfr
/WV:
7 ; -AJ
THE
‘PLUM’
r't EXTREME!?.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
\JT like a bell nod never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind'of
rdo-e that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STR3P, specia’ly made for this Razor, 7«. 6d.
«* RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Prici
Single Razor, in strong heather Case, 10s. GU. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Ca«e, 21*.
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
|IT“ Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents: * CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
THE fIOCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
63 near perfection as the Celebrated , .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
US
3
Price ;£1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality (as per illustration), with 3 sets of Reeds and
Organ Stop, JGl 5s. Other Accordeons, 7/6 to 63/-
Send for Catalogue B.
For GRAMOPHONE see our advertisement on another page.
Importers of Pianos, Watihes, & Jewellery
210 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE. [2
The Reason Why
We Cure
Every
Time.
t
"JL'W2£:
V
if
J
in
Ui
Gives back to the system the Natural
Element it has been robbed of. It does
not require much knowledge of physiology
for one to understand the remarkable suc-
cess of our treatment. Everyone knows
that he has Electricity in his body,
and that he could not live without it. . Everyone
knows that he has Vitality, Strength, and that
he will die when it leaves him. What gives Vitality?
Nerve Force ! And what is Nerve Force ? Elec-
tricity ; and the increase or decrease of the Electrical
Nerve Force has a direct influence upon the strength
of every part of the body. If the expenditure of
Nervous Force exceeds its normal amount, your store
of Electricity is diminished, and until its deficiency
is made good, Vital Action languishes; the brain and the whole of the
bodily organs act with a waning vigor. . . . Consider that excesses
waste your natural Electricity, that any over-taxation of the Nerves or Vital
Parts uses it up too freely, and you have the reason for all your Weakness
and Ill-Health. Re-charge your system with Electricity daily, make the
Nerves absorb it until they are fully charged, and your measure of strength
increases, the muscles and tissues throw off all impure and abnormal con-
ditions, the blood becomes warm, and the vital organs work vigorously and
in perfect harmony— That is Health .
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
'TTv* '7K~ '7K~ '7t\T 'TiV 'Tt\r 'TiV 'TFC 'TX V V(V vrc
Pours into the system for hours at a time a Warm, Gentle, Soothing Current
of Electricity. You can feel the weak nerves soaking it up just like a sponge
does water, and, filled with its invigorating influence, they tingle and
dance with the new life infused into them.
MRS. S. HAWKINS, SINGLETON, N.S.W., writes:—
Gentlemen, —I wish to express my grateful thanks for the great benefit I have received
from wearing one of your Electric Belts. I had been a great sufferer from Sciatica and
Rheumatism for more than twenty years, but since wearing the Belt those pains have
entirely left me, and my general health has much improved.
My son got one of your Belts last year, and he says it is a perfect- God-send to him.
He only wore it for six weeks, and he has never felt a return of the pains since.
It is the Grandest Invention of the Age for Weak People,
and the Surest and Easiest Cure for all Nervous and Chronic Diseases. Its
Wonderful Power is directed to the seat of the Nervous System, through
which its Vitalizing Strength penetrates into all parts of the body, carrying
New Life to every function that
has been weakened bv dissipation,
restoring Energy to the Brain, and
Power to the Vital Organs. No
Weak Man, no Sickly or Delicate
Woman will ever regret a fair trial
of our Electric Belt; it is Nature’s
Restorer of Vitality. It will Cure
any case of Rheumatism , Debility ,
Weak Stomach , Kidney and Liver
Troubles , Lame Back , Sciatica ,
Varicocele , and All Weaknesses
in Men and Women.
We Specially Invite Sufferers to
avail themselves of our FREE
ADVICE. Call, if possible, and
let us explain the working of this
Great Electric Appliance. Office
Hours: 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. If you
cannot call send for our Free Book.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
100 W. MARXET ST., SYDNEY.
N.Z. Office: 64 WILLIS ST., WELLINGTON.
FREE BOOKS!
On receipt of the accompany-
ing Coupon, properly filled
in, we will send you our
Grand Illustrated Books,
Free and Post Paid.
They contain full in-
formation about this
Wonderful Rem-
edy, and, also,
contain Photos
and names of
many men
& women
who ’ve
been
cured
4‘
The Dr.
McLaughlin
Co.
Sirs,—Please send me
your Illustrated Books as
advertised.
NAME
( address.


HR
TO
%
k
If it’s
Consumption
The best present yon can
take home is a bottle of
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
It quiets the cough, makes
breathing easy, and heals the
lungs. And it cures, even
advanced cases. Make no
mistake. Be sure and get
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, the
standard cough remedy of
the world. Sold for 60 years.
Beware of imitations.
Id larjje end small bottles.
Avoid constipation. Hasten a cure by tho
use of Ayer’s Pills.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell- Mass., U.S.-A*
Purveyors
by Royal Warrant
sdg
To His Majesty
The King.
“LENTEN SEASON
JUST LANDED “SPECIAL”
SHIPMENTS OF . . .
R’
(John Moir & Son, Ltd.)
:rrin<
“NEW SEASON’S ’ “SPECIALLY SELECTED.”
insist on having' “MOIR’S” BRAND.
EACH TIN GUARANTEED.
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Preserved Bloaters
Herrings in Anchovy Sauce
Herrings in Shrimp Sauce
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
Herrings a la Sardines
Digby Chicks
Dried Sprats
Findon Haddocks
Anchovy Paste, 3oz.
Bloater Paste, 4oz.
MARTIN’S
PILLS
A Safe Medicine for Ladies.
The reason is t ey are purely a vegetable
c-mposition, and expressly suited to the con-
stitution and requirements of women. _ This
explains the great success and golden opinions
which follow the’r use. Thousands say they
save all trouble, effectually remove all impuri-
ties of the blood, beautify t e complexion, no
headache, no pain, no flushing, no giddiness,
no anxiety. Taey make work a p’easure, and
existence a joy. Superior to any other known
remedy, Price 31 -■ Sold everywhere. Sole
proprietor, (WAR TIN, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Sau Hampton, England.
Cyphers Incubators
THESE world-renowned INCUBATORS are worked on
a new principle. The Regulator is simply perfect,
and cannot get out of order. Being worked on the Hot
Air principle, they have no tanks to leak. They are self-
ventilated, and are fully guaranteed to bring out lively
and healthy chicks and ducklings. Send for circular.
J. & A. BOYES, «“"£•>
241-243 Elizabeth-street, flelbourne.
THE GUINEA KING
m
mm
# .
Hand
Camera
—B——M
To carry 12
J-Plates
with Rapid
Rectilinear
Lens.
Finest In-
stantaneous
Shutter
focussing up
to 4ft. Post
free to any
part of Aus-
tralia, 22/6.
J. H SQUIRE & CO.,
Kodak Depot, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Stop
Coughing!
Why?
Because coupti/nj bntnjs on couyti/njs. increases
<nflamma//on, t fears /tie l/nmps of /tie a/r passages ,
Strains /tie wtio/e aysfem, provokes /te/riorrtiape anct
leads to consumption and every form of throat ond
/un s * se * se Whar slops a Cough?
o„ e <*>« of Bormingforis Irish Moss
and a small one at /daS’, tv/ff subdue ttie most
violent spell, and a moderate use of /tits prep \
-a rat/on w/H do away bo id with the cough
and die cause.
Make a nofe of/t> e name _
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall and Post Office,
and within a stone’s throw of all the -theatres.
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 38. per day ; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2.30; DINNER, 6.30 till 7.30
Special Feature-RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE m the City.
TERMS. The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
HOTEL ENTRAN CE = MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY
3
Mem.: Business iVSen.
To obtain the benefit of Style and Comfort
at a minimum outlay, you should wear . .
QNIHIQI9 icHOOIS 919»
These Suits are just the thing tor business wear, and made specially to youir .
Serge, Indigo Dye, and All Wool Fancy Tweedy PER •S&JiTT l'cst Free,
fully—they will be of proper length and size. , , .
TROUSERS TO MEASURE in New Worsteds, Tweeds, and Indigo Serges at 12/6 post free.
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS to measure, in fawn and brown beaver cloth, velvet collar, at 32/6, post free.
ASCOT OVERCOAT (full length mm neck to feet), in rainproof covert coating and rainproof tweeds, to
measuie, oannot cal]> gend for patterns and self-measurement form and they will be sent you
post free on receipt of request. - .
TRY WHERE YOU WILL, YOU CAN’T BEAT THE BIG BLOCK CLOTHING.
Finney, Isles & Co., Limited, The Big Blo@js 9 BRISBANE.
THERE IS A DAINTINESS
about the design of these
Brooches you won’t find
elsewhere.
And the Prices are lower.
I HAVE
THOUSANDS
OF OTHERS
TO SHOW
WHEN YOU
CALL.
A Gift, solid gold Dove Broech,
real Pearl Spray, 15s.
SEND
FOR
MY
CATALOGUE.
I wish to call your special attention to this Brooch,
the quality and finish is of the best, the price exceptionally
low ; three inches long, set with soft lustrous pearls, the
effect is very pleasing. 9ct. Gold, 355 ; 15ct. 60s*
H.f: SMITH the leading jeweller
Queens' (ncar. bridge?)
Brisbane
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Night’s Disquiet.
I will not hear her —no, I will not hear
Her voice that through the years still softly falls ;
I will not see her though she falter near.
Nor answer her, though sad through tears she calls:
My heart is shut against her, and my door
(Cold, cold the night, with wind and beating
rain) —
But though from night she .call for evermore,
I will not hear her —no, not once again.
Oh, hide those eyes, tear-dimmed; hide that
white cheek ;
Oh, hush the tremors of that pleading tone :
I will not look nor he ir, I will not speak ;
Lone as my heart, you, too, shall move alone . . .
Ah, tearful face, dear voice of long ago,
Once coming, loved and loving, stol’n away !
Why will you break my peace ? why haunt me so
Till sighs and tears and wretchedness blind night
and day ?
11. Ij.
JOHANNES C. ANDERSEN.
We Wonder.
“ We wonder,” said the children, “where it is the
gold sun goes
When the silver stars come out to play,
And the dainty moon comes gliding across the
high peaks’ snows —
Now, we wonder, would he rather stay ?”
“ We wonder,” said the children, “ when the South
wind softly stills,
Why the old folks’ faces sadder grow ;
In their eyes are always shadows when they look
across the hills—
Now, we wonder, and would like to know ?”
“We wonder,” said the children, “of what the
grown folk think,
As they sit beside the fire so late
And watch the red coals darken and the fluttering,
thin flames sink—
We wonder, O we wonder, why they wait?”
“We wonder,” said the children, “when the
night has come to stay,
If the great God sleeps so far above ;
We wonder if He listens, if He’s angry, when we
pray,
In the dark, to the little God we love ?”
“ We wonder,” said the old folk, “ if the children
ever dream
How heavy are our hearts with past regret?
They are happy by the creek’s side, where the
gold cups gleam.
0, at life, they cannot wonder yet! ”
n.s.w.
CARO.
When Night Comes.
I bate the noise of silence
In the creeping time of night,
When darkness hides my courage
And my faith away from sight.
Then memory sows the current
Of the night with snags of sin,
And memory tears the blackness,
Letting light of sorrow in.
Oh, God ! wben passeth night-time ?
Its silence fills my ears —
And a curlew’s scream is mus.c,
That scatters ghastly fears.
I hate the dreadful silence;
Its thunders bruise my soul,
When its desolating waters
On the shore of memory roll.
Heaven ! when cometh morning ?
I want the quiet day,
And the saving press of people
That drives the noise away.
Ah, Lord ! Ah, Lord ! the silence
Is fraught with ghostly din,
And Darkness stalks my threshold—
And beckons it w.tlun.
I hate the noisy silence—
Alive within my head !
How shall I face that greater
Silence of the dead ?
S.A.
SYDNIY PAETRIDGE.
The Little White Wraith.
She comes when the shadows fall,
With hope gone out of her eyes,
Waking the pain in my heart
With pitiful memories.
In the hush and the gloom of the night
I wait for the fall of her feet;
And I watch her entering in
From the dark of the rain-swept street.
Ah ! little white wandering wraith,
The dreams that we dreamt were vain ;
The years that the locust hath eaten
Can never be ours again.
And your white hands stretch for warmt.r
To a flame that has lost its fire,
And your deep eyes search my own
For a spark of a past desire.
Ah, sweet girl-wraith of the night,
The old love-fire burnt low—
Only a heap of ashes the passion of long ago;
And yet, if, somewhere, some day,
Your soul and mine should meet,
Could we kindle those ashes, I wonder,
Oh wraith of the wind-swept street ?
Q.
K. SMYTH.


WILD WITH ECZEMA
And Other Itching, Burning,
Scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair.
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cuticura Soap, to
Cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cuticura Ointment
freely, to allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring, Itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashes,
irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema; the fright-
ful scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair and crusting of the-scalp, as in
scalledhead; the facial disfigurement, as in pimples and ringworm; the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, as in milk
crust, tetter, and salt rheum, all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies,
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curatives for the skin,
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends.
Millionsof Women UseCuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and inflammations of women, or too free or offensive
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well as'
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
CUTICURU PIIK ( 9 10C< ? late Coated) ar. a new, .tasteless,
ISLwULf Llg a I ILLO odourless economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Cuticura Remedies arc .old throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Britiah
i ranch Depot: 5 Rue da la Fuix, Paris. Potucb Lituu AKK Chbu.
DINNEFORDS
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIi
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
'a*
LAST DAYS! LAST DAYS!
FOR A CHANCE TO WIN
£lOO0 For 1 - £lOOO
A Fortune for //- A Fortune for 1/ -
£lOOO for Is.]
£lOOO for Is.J
FIRST GREAT
PRIZE
j£looo for Is.
I £lOOO for Is.
Or 12 Months’ Trip round the World, first-class, all expenses paid,
and £6OO in Cash for one person, or Eight Months for two.
And 139 other Important Prizes, ranging in value from £1 to £l5O.
Eight Hours 49th Annual Great Art Union
49th THE OLDEST AND MOST POPULAR 49th.
Proceeds In aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners Free of all Charges. A list of winning numbers will be posted
to any person sending an addressed envelope to the representative, with stamp unallixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before 22nd April, or send stamps (with exchange added), Postal
Note, or P. 0.0., direct to the representative, Theo. W. Hkidk, Flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-
street, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and secure a chance in this Great Art Union.
Tickets Is. each, or 11 for 10s.
Applications for tickets direct to the representative must reach Melbourne before Date of Drawing,
Ist May, 1905.
BE SURE TO TRY YOUR LUCK !
Weak Nerved People
f iX
This is to people who lack courage, whose nerves are
shaky, whose eyes have lost the sparkle, whose brains are
muddled, ideas confused, sleep restless, confidence gone,
spirits low, who are hesitating, unable to venture, because
they are afraid of failure, who want somebody to decide for
them. It is to people who have part or all of these symp-
toms of nervousness and want new life, new force. We
offer it to you in the
Dr. Austin Electric Belt
It pours glowing, exhilarating vitality into you while you
sleep ; it rejuvenates, animates sluggish circulation, stimu-
lates the brain to activity, and fills the body with life and
ambition.
It furnishes the motive power that runs your body, and
quickly banishes pain. It cures Nervous Disorders, Lum-
bago, Rheumatism, Stomach, Liver, Kidney and Bowel
Troubles, and that Tired Feeling, after every other treat-
ment has failed.
3PAIT WHEN CURED.
Any honest man or woman, who will secure us, can have our Belt, and pay for it when
cured. Our Belt is better and stronger than any made, and never burns or blisters the flesh.
FREE BOOK.—Our new Illustrated Book tells about our Belt, and how it cures the weaknesses of men
and women. We send it FREE, upon request. WRITE TO-DAY, and you will be satisfied with the result.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept, i.
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
- - We are receiving Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
■THE
1
t
#
9
%
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
1 The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns. •' -
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
| the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
|to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. „ For the robust and delicate they
! are alike suitable,
ALLEN & HANBLIRYS Ltd., LONDON, and 7, Spring Si, SYDNEY.
WILL ANDRADE’
LIST OF
OKS
&
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,new
1904 edition, hard covers,
improved, 3s 6d. Magic Up-
to-Date, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illus-
trated, Is.. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Neb
Donelly’s Art ok Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Maria
Monk, is 6d Hovv to
Dance, Is. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d. Nana ; Piping Hot ;
Rush for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series,
2s. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter,
Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger
Stump Speeches, Is ; post, is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dqg Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
Is. Georgette, Is; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. Britain for the British, 6d.
Freemasonry Exposed and Explained, 1905 edi-
tion, with key to all degrees, Is. Cycle Building
and Repairing, new edition. 190 illustrations, Is 3d.
Macfaduen’s Physical Training, Is. Virile Powers
of Superb Manhood, ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Hep-
tameron, and many others, all in cheap edition. Bride
of the First Night, 1/3. Rosario, the Female Monk,
2 . How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing,
1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clair-
voyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is. How
to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing. Is 3d. How to. Make Love. Is. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Picture
Frame Making,. Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is.
Money Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets,
Is 3d Letter Writer Up -to - Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, l>y Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor, Is. French Art Studies, real
photos, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
Bothneß’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Mare Ur, Illustrated
Guiue to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s fid. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. Nnw Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise. Is 6d. Stolen Sweets, ls6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, is 3d. Lover’s Letter. Writer,
Is. Photography, Is, Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works. 6d, Is. 2s 6d, and 6s 6d.
ANn any book you want.
Zingara Oipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will' do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2 : Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5: Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
JAYNE*
CURES T 1
THE WORSTCOUGHiSJ
NOTICE
To sufferer*from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent ltoad, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
eflicncy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
BOLD IN TWO SIZKB, 9d. & I*. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment.
NOT BEING
A BELT
it will not burn or blister the
skin -There is nothing to
wear round the body to
foster germs-It is sure,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
£1 of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
WRITE
for my new book (illustrated) “Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and what you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON,'
M.R.C.S.
Eng.
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE.
FREE
by post, a perfect
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CUR?
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROLbLES,
Debility, and their seriou oonsequences. A Bum
CURE pure and simple ft al who need it. Address
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
s-v-hd untie 3r.


NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria- Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boandeos, 98- pea - Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Til Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Produost.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10a. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
Tht Rttull .
CRAIG &. AITKEIM. N.S.W, Barber’s Supplj
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
No
Humbugging
Offers or con-
ditions to
comply with.
FREE
In order to introduce our Goods into every
home, a lady’s or gent.’s Rolled Gold Watch
Chain and Pendant will be presented, entirely
free, to each purchaser of one pair of our Special
Cuff Links, price, 4/9. Please note that we send
the Watch Chain and Pendant complete in case
with warranty along with the Cuff Links, im-
mediately we receive your postal note for 4/9 ;
if 3d extra is added goods will he sent by regis-
tered post, and thereby save any risk of breakage.
Address, THE INTRODUCING COMPANY,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
sdgh
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
ihe sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price, complete with 4 mon ths’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
SsW
USES
Insecticide
Kills
| ALL
NSECTS
foK JOSE'S
sdgsd
w.
FOREIGN AND OLD
AUSTRALIAN POSTAGE
STAMPS FOR SALE,
Selections on Approval against
References.
Sets and Packets of Stamps, Albums,
&c., Price Lists Post Free.
WALTER A. HULL,
No. 10 Strand, Sydney
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when eveiy
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
26 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
■
RothwelTs y£
OXI/T ADDBIM,
Edward Sto Brisbane*
Manufacturers of Masonio
Regralla. Bast Quality Blue
Apron and Case, «1 la, [B,
WATE ROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines & Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Stearin Pumps, &C., Ao.
Sole Asent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
The “GOERZ” Binocular
FIELD GLASS.
gsd
The FINEST CLASS IN THE WORLD.
Good for any Distance up to 20 Miles.
SUITABLE FOR TOURIST, RACES,
MARINE, MILITARY, and all uses, and
absolutely invaluable to the Squatter.
Price £8 10s.
Size No. 9 —that is, magnifying nine times as
much as the ordinary Field-Glass.
in Solid Leather Case, with Name
or Initials stamped in Gold.
A LIMITED NUMBER ONLY AT THIS PRICE. THU
OSBORN & JERDAN,
“My Opticians
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
■ < ;
J?EST? 178 2
PHCENIX
Assurance Company of London
Assurances effected on Buildings and Contents; also on WOOLSHEDS, HOMESTEADS, and
other Station Properties, at LOWEST RATES.
NOTE.—Losses Arising: 'from Bush Fires, Lightning:, and
Explosion of Coal Qas are covered by this Company.
Annual Income, £1,500,000. Reserve Fund and Security, £4,000,000.
Has issued the LARGEST FIRE POLICY ever written, viz., for £3,474,030;
Premium, 33,821.
ISF Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, allowed off all Premiums.
117 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers).
WILLIAM N, PARMER,
Manager.
ADDRESSES
EC
UT
BY
l
ILLUMINATING
RTISI
ON
O®
Robert 6 ’
3845
ST-Ree
P^on£
Y THB NECESSITY
I OF
brushing the teeth morning and evening
becomes a pleasure if you use I
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder
with its delicate perfume and agreeable taste.
It preserves the teeth by thorough
and antiseptic cleansing, and also
gives them the requisite polish
without Injuring the enamel.
Calvert’s Prickly-heat Soap
is very serviceable in hot climates as
a preventive of prickly-heat and other
irritation of the skin. _ It is pleasantly
perfumed and contains 10% Crystal
Carbolic.
These articles can be readily obtained from
most Chemists and Storekeepers.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
ROTHerhams
ENGLISH WATCHES.
Speciality : —
MODELE DE LUXE WATCHES
WITH RATE CERTIFICATE.
sold by all
WHO CUN-SHOW-
A
*3*
N
HAMJ
Horn
no
Jewellers.
IILUSTRKnDCfIALOGUES
rnsju——«*•
SPOONER’S
m.
SPOONER'S
V
♦
*
ru* .») *■*• *••• ••
ATENT LEATHER BOOTS
QU?£5 WO5 M
;• v**
I.K.K,- '*"*■*>« '»**«•*••»•
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots andtShoes.
(In bottles) Od. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS HEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeeptn,
Boot Shops. Saddlers, etc.
OKIE BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
gsd
Book op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. Ho wto Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lam ar-
tinb’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marik
Corelli’s God.’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating thb
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold* Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Loyk, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book or Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is pest.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Maonetism) Is
Sosted. Sandow’s Book of Strenoth, 3s posted.
hiniquy’s Priest, Woman, ane the Confessional,
Is 8d postod. Carlisli’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
home cyclopepir
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.**
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-workino for Ama-
teurs, Solbering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
po«t»d. Evert Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Ur-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking .Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Poet Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prieee with others and
save your each, pr Mttablithtd to ¥*ars.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE OOT FROn THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Maks Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Cloq Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Cook of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. M r roan's Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, Cd posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d oost. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Csrds, Love, Pusiness, Futurity, &c., with
full i rect ons, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s Pd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. Q. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is fid post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
hound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Pain*,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
Ss 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
6s. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptambroh, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 600 kinds, Is 3d dozen, Niw Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Sirin, Is M.
SIR ROBERT BEAR
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On or Fraahoid or
city or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Cove nmeat
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian Stages or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST;
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing .Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any Pne.
Directors—Thomas Littlejohn, Ks.],,Chairman ; The Hon. A.'w Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy • Ben.tamix Short
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James'Burns, Esq. ; The Hon.at. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F.'E. WixciicomW Esq. M.L. a!
General Manager and Actuary—RhJhard Teece, F.1.A., F.J?.A., P.S.S. ’ ’’
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary
Wire Cloth Weavers,
gsdg
* ♦
Makers of all Kinds
(a Steel, Iron, of Wove Wire
Galvanised, Copper, and Brass.
* « (
WE HAKE A SPECIALITY OF
HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
We have the BEST MEN and
LATEST MACHINERY.
————♦
We would be pleased to get in comrhunlcatloa with
those interested in Wire Cloth.
WE WILL BE FOUND QUICK, CIVIL, OBLIGING AND CHEAP.
T'T I
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 * f> 411 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Factories: 533 A Cejrge St., and Alb:on Lane.
P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
ft
FISHING
Only the Highest Quality
Fishing Tackle stocked.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST,
SEND FOR OUR LISTS.
WE HAVE SUPPLIED ANGLERS
FOR FIFTY YEARS.
WE ARE PURELY AND SIMPLY
A FISHING TACKLE SHOP.
EASTWAY BROTHERS
409 & 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POST
POST
CARD
ilMvs
Vi
/...../
TJ> &J.SU-.
POST CARO
a
A®
fife
T.^.3
TO INTRODUCE OUR NEW
PICTORIAL POST CARDS, best Id. Post Card in Australia
As a husre advertisement we will forward to anyone sending their
name and address, 120 of our best Id. post cards free. Anyone may
send. We want no money. We merely ask you to sell these post card*
amongst your friends in packets of six at 6d per packet. After selling
the cards (which will not take long 1 ) you return the 10s. and we send
you any present you may choose from a list we send. By continuin'*
the sale of these cards you may earn a Solid Sterling: Silver Watch
(Ladv’s or Gent’s). We take all risks. Cards returnable if not sold.
Send at once to THE PICTORIAL POST CARD CO.,
BK Falmouth Chambers,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
HARDY’S
700 Prizes.
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co,
JLat;c3L.
SYTDKTE3 Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
A BALMAIN TRIBUTE
Many Failures, Final Success.
The Case of Mr. J, BERLIN.
(By a Special Keportcr.)
'At the bootmaking premises of Mr.
John Berlin, which are situated at
No 357 Darling-street, Balmain, a re-
porter bad an "interview of sufficient
interest to the public to justify its
appearance in these columns. Mr. Ber-
lin’s remarks were :
“For a considerable period prior to
two years ajo I was unfortunate in
having a ser.ous turn of ill health, and
now That I am well again it is my
desire to impart to other sufferers
smeh information as will enable them
to get rid of their ailments also, for
nothing is so hard as to be ill and
not know what to take to get better.''
“What was annss with you, Mr. Ber-
lin queried the writer.
“Everything, 1 think ; for I seemed
to have gone wrong in every conceiv-
able shape and lorm, and what caused
me to feel my position so keenly was
the fact that 1 could gain no benefit
from anything 1 took. The remedies J
tried were so numerous that 1 icallv
cannot remember them all, and be-ides
those things 1 drank a lot of physic
which my doctors prescribed for me.
They said my kidneys and liver were
out of order, and that i was thorough-
ly run down as well, and, goodness
knows, they were right, lor my vi-
tality was so low that 1 hadn’t
enough energy to do a stroke of work.
Many a day' i felt so weary, so ut-
terly downcast and fatigued, that 1
couid not remain at my shop any
longer, and J would knock oil : but
even then J did not better myself, as
1 could tind neither peace nor enjoy-
ment in any direction. What a differ-
ence there was in me then compared
to the time when 1 landed in Sydney
from Sweden—which was on the day
that the New South Wales troops ar-
rived from the Soudan. J was then so
hearty and vigorous that i hardly
knew" my own strength, but what a
sorry wreck 1 was a little over two
years ago. 1 was wretched with a
feeling as if something dr'eadful was
going to happen—as if 1 had done
something wrong and. was going to be
paid back in my own coin, and I took
cpiite a dislike to mixing in company.
1 felt that I always wanted to be
alone—that the world was a sham,
and that there was nothing in it to
live for ; and, true enough, there was
nothing in it for me to live for, un-
less it was to suffer pain and discom-
fort all day long. My nerves were
very bad—as weak as they could be ;
ami on the slightest provocation they
would vibrate and twitch dreadfully,
i used to sit and mope about by my-
self. thinking of all kinds of unhappv
things, and even wandering in my
mind<; and it surprised those who
knew how even-tempered I used to be
to tind that 1 became cross and ill-
grained over nothing. But that all
comes from the liver, I believe, for over
since mine was put right by Clements
Tonic 1 have been an entirely different
man.”
“What induced you to' resort to the
use of Clements 'lonic ? Was it recom-
mended to you ?”
“Yes; somebody was telling me
about it, and I thought it would not
be a bad plan to see if what was said
was true, and I soon discovered that
1 had not been misled, for by the time
1 had taken about three bottles of
Clements Tonic 1 knew instinctively
that my recovery was assured. And
when you hear that J had gono from
thirteen stone to ten stone you can
guess how delighted ] was to know
that 1 had got something at last that
would surely save me. Yes; there was
httle more than the frame of me> left,
and I was just asi feeble as I looked.
Flow could L expect to be otherwise wit!'-
the appetite 1 had 7 Why, some days
I could not eat anything at all, and
would actually sicken at the sight of j
food ; but 1 cannot say I Was any-
thing like that alter Clements Tonic
had been given a chance of showing
what it was made of. JNo, indeed , the
tables were turned in a very decided
manner in that respect, for I could
soon eat anything that was put before
me, and didn’t 1 feel easier after meals
compared to what t used to ? JNo feel-
ings in the stomach as if it were full
of wind, no cramping pains there, and
l didn't feel as if my clothes were too
tight for me, as 1 “ had done. But
those were really small matters when
placed in line with the severe head-
aches that I had to endure every day
until it was my good fortune to be
brought in touch with Clements Tonic;
and when that happened—well, the re-
lief 1 gained, was wonderful. It Was
not only relief from headaches that I
got, though, but, later on, an abso-
lute cure, and another thing Which
made me glad J stuck to Clements
Tonic lor a while was the fact that I
lost all those tits of giddiness that
used to attack me. yes, 1 used to
feel awfully strange sometimes, as if
the room was spinning round, and fdt
a brief space 1 would remembet noth-
ing. Once Clements Tonic checked
those horrible sensations they have
never emce occurred again, and I can
truthfully say the same of the smo-
thering sensations in my chesit, which
seemed to get so tight that i could
not draw my breath. It was l quite a
general thing for me to have hurtful
sensations between the shoulders and
i nght across my loins, but Clements
|'lonic did not fail me there either—
no, indeed, it brought ease to every
, Part ot my body, even to my eves,
| which had had a heavy, lumpy leeling
i m them for months, and my sight got
, dear a.s well. Upon my life, it was
like being born again, for whereas pre-
vious to taking Clements Tonic I
could never get a night's rest, after-
wards J could sleep almost as soon as
my head got settled on the pillow, and
1 h,nd none ol the old dreams to dis-
turb me as formerly. And, another
thing, Clements lonic did away with
the objectionable taste that had per-
vaded my mouth, besides removing
from the tongue all the slimy coating
that it had been covered with. Whilst
all this was going on my nervous sys-
tem was undergoing a beneficial
change. I became evenly balanced in
mind and steady in nerves, which
showed that Clements Tonic streng-
thens the brain as well as the ’body,
and that accounts for my sleeping so
well, and also for ceasing to worry
and to get irritable at trifles. Those
of my friends who had seen me in
a .-?, n -Y so Jong, and who used to give
pitiful glances at me when 1 was wasl-
ing away, were spellbound with amazo-
ment at the work Clements Tonic had
done ; and the best of it is that 1
havo remained cured ever since.”
“Have 1 your permission to print
this statement ?”
“You may publish it in any way it
pleases you, for I’ve said noi.hing but
the plain truth.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, JOHN BERLIN, of 357 Darling-
street, Balmain, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing of five folios and consecutively numbered
from oue to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of mv ill-
ness and cure by Clements Tonic and also
contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment : and I make
uhis solemn declaration conscientiously biliev-
ng the same to be true, and by virtue of the
tovisions of tbe Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Balmain this
eighth day of November, one thousand nine
hundred and four, before me,
GEO. M. MARSH, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O DEFY COMIFJBTIXXOJXr.
WINES n ‘ Be “ *£* 0 * * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS. *O.
Kent Brewery, SYDMEY.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £11,150,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold orC. P. and C.L.)or Government Stock of
any of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any finer


tv
rHS
*
!
-si
■■^ilill
"!•■ *i»s ’
i»5i:::«aJ»:
'.%a©B®wi
>■
; $m- &,
si.s'ss'l ,
;L
v&w.
sS?3is VJ^'iilssb'
ri»J
(nia
•i m l. .
'jllflJl
liitiPPdiS! J
JllflUl'
luy.J
Nr
A
Ms.
ms
ijii
tfsss*
l§
I*f3(
i'Jsi
W
W
Bli?
!«
P.V
209
■
SH
fir.* • i
RB
■i
i
AC
□ITS
weiNfitiw f'Hiv.
sdg
sdgsdgsd
5
ANTI-
BILIOUS
I
J do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the R'yal College of Physicians of I ondon.
% FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family. ||
the wonder of the age.
gsd
are the finest and most exact imitation of the
Genuine Diamond ever discovered. They are cut and
polished, and have the same brilliant fire and beauty
of the genuine old mine stones.
911
CLUSTER RING.
This is one of the most
beautiful settings
made. Set with Ruby,
Emerald, Turquoise,
and Opal Centre, sur-
rounded by Extra
Brilliant Barrios Dia-
monds.
Sale Price, 12/-
936
TIFFANY ENGAGE-
MENT RING.
An exact copy of the
original Tiffany design.
The ring is hand-made,
with perfect care. You
absolutely cannot tell
the ring from one with
a genuine diamond
worth £25.
Sale Price, 6/-
FLAT BELCHER.
A ring that seems to
be worth at least £4O.
Heavy hand - made
mounting, set with
large, m a g n i fi c e n t,
sparkling stone. The
most popular man’s
ring of the day.
Sale Price, 18/-
' 504 '
ROUND BELCHER.
A ring that seems to
be worth at least £4O.
Heavy hand - made
mountings, set with a
large, magnificent,
sparkling stone. The
most popular man's
ring of the day.
Sale Price, 6/-
it
&
557
SMALL MARQUISE
RING.
Beautiful pure white
brilliant stones, with
Ruby, Emerald, or
Turquoise Centre. The
original was worth
£75.
Sc.le Price, 12/-
935
5-STONE PRINCESS
RING.
The most popular
ladies’ ring of the
day. It looks like a
£6O article.
Sale Price, 14/-
868
CLUSTER SCARF PIN.
Ten beautifully white
and perfectly brilliant
stones, flashing and
sparkling around a
Ruby, Emerald, or Tur-
quoise, Opal Centre.
The most beaut ful
and stylish Scarf Pin
ever worn.
Sale Price, 10/-
///'
907
SOLITAIRE SCARP
PIN.
Perfectly white and
brilliant, \ or 1 carat
stones, - hand set in
heavy gold filled
mountings. They can-
not be distinguished
from the genuine.
Sale Frice, 6/-
BARRIOS DIAMONDS are guaranteed to ret,™ U UWff £ & tSS ’ittSfiSJ
SfrSoftSlftSdtoto.^jSter,?ff»twiU.™lected^»Di.^,thetoOu n tittoof w hi* is heavy llct. Gold shell, and warranted to wear lor 20 years; the stones are
guaranteed for ever. During tins month ws offer 'l'' l ‘^'o^r ‘ia'mato with but one ob'oct, that of introducing ourselr/cs, as well as our goods, to the people of
'ra^and Q a.ioon“a". tha o“cct to accomplished, BAr.lbOS D.Algor DO will bo sold b, the carat, and the mounting, for what the, arc worth.
REMEMBER !
Austral
871
SOLITAIRE DROP OR SCREW
EARRINGS.
Duplicates of the famous jewels
worn by Mine. Barrios, pro-
nounced genuine by experts.
These earrings are of extra heavy
gold plate, warranted to wear for
15 years. Set with perfectly
white and brilliant stones that
absolutely defy detection. They
seem to be worth at least £25.
Sale Price. 61-
908
solitaike stud.
Perfectly white and bril-
liant, l or 1 carat stones,
hand set in heavy gold-
tilled mountings. They
cannot be distinguished
from the genuine.
Sale Price, 6/-
854
CRESCENT BROOCH.
A very handsome, neat design.
The stones are extra fine cut,
and brilliant.
Sale Frice, 6/-
STAR SUNBURST.
Surrounded by sparkling, flash-
ing Barrios Diamonds. A popu-
lar and beautiful combination.
Every stone, selected with special
care for its exceptional brilliancy.
Actually worth £5.
Sale Frice, 12/-
Hi
mm
i\\{
853
SCROLL BROOCIL
Set with extra fine Stones. A
beautiful design for evening
wear.
Sale Price, 8/-
GOLD POINTED SUNBURST.
Surrounded by sparkling-, flash-
ing Barrios Diamonds. A popular
and beautiful combination.
Every stone selected with special
care for its exceptional brilliancy.
Actually worth &a.
Sale Price, 12/-
OUR MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT.
We have the largest Mail Order Department in the
country devoted exclusively to the sale of jewellery.
All orders filled the day they are received. Send us' currency or ot'delldptioM hardly
you will be surprised and delighted with the article‘you wifch the distinct understanding that if goods
do the goods justice. Remember, you send in jour ora Address orders plainly to either of our
are not exactly as represented, your money will be refunded. Acldiess oiueis piai y
magnificent shops—care DEI’T. B.
OUR CUARANTEE.
We guarantee each and every stone to retain its brilliancy for ever, and
the mountings to give perfect satisfaction.
We will give £2OOO to any charitable institution if it can be shown that we ever refuse to replace a
stone that does not give satisfaction. BAREIOS DIAMONDS will stand acids, heat, alkali, &c. In fact,
they can be washed and cleaned like ordinary diamonds, and so near do they resemble them that
GOVERNMENT EXPERTS have been deceived.
BARRIOS DIAMOND CO.,
100 King Street, Sydney ;
52 Swanston Street, Melbourne.


HE NIT SISSY’S
BRANDY.
Messrs. Hennessy guarantee all their Brandies to be GENUINE GRAPE, and distilled from Wine only.
I
£5OOO Worth of D I RI 0 Q
BIRTHDAY It INUO
j Watches, Bracelets, &c„ given away
! to introduce New I,ife Electine Reme-
dies. You pay nothing. Simply send
vour Name and Address on a Post Card, and we will send you 2 Boxes of each
of our tour famous Electlne Remedies, to sell at i/-per box. A grand remedy
and cure for all impure and weak conditions of the blood,
k iduey and liver trouble, constipation, weak nervous dis-
orders—a tonic and life-builder. They are easy to Bell,
as each customer who buys a box of pills from you re-
ceives a prize ticket, which entitles them to aihandsome,
piece of Table Send us your order at once
and we will send the pills and prize tickets, post paid.
When sold, send us the money, and we will send you
the Birthday Ring
and Mizpah Brooch,
or any other prize
you are entitled to. Remember, you are selling
an article of merit and in return you receive
honest prizes. You taka no risk. Goods re-
turnable if not sold. Our Pills are genuine,
carefully manufactured from the very best
drugs. Beware of imitations.
ELECTINE MEDICINE CO., Ash St., Sydney, N,S,W.
->MIZPAH-
r, xtra Prize. Send your order at once,
and w« will giv * you for promptness
with the lucky Birthday King, an exquisite
oid Gold Cased Mizpah Brooch. Re-
member, if you w ite us now, the brooch
will be giv* n you Kreeasan extr» prize,
in addition to the Birthday Ring.
To each month is dedicated
a precious stone. Any per-
son wearing the enchanted
stone of their birth moi th
insmesthem great and un-
failing good luck.
Thus to January is def-
eated the garnet; February,
amethjst; March, blood-
stone ; April, diamond. Ac.
gsd
GUNS.
HARRINGTON and
RICHARDSON’S
jjjijt
SPECIAL OFFER ,
No. I —Steel Barrel, SO inch, Pistol. Hand, Case-hardened Frame, Top Snap Action and
Automatic Ejector, 12 gauge, Complete in Canvas Case £1 12s Gd
No. 2— Similar to No. 1, but without Automatic Ejector .. .. £1 10s Od
POSTAGE FREE to anv address In Australia.
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, 147 Elizabeth St., Melbourne .
gsd
S 3
FOR INFANTS
AND
INVALIDS
One Quality —the BEST.
TRADE MARK
Ilf,
THE RICHEST
IN CREA/^
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
II
i
\TTZ
»*»
liiw
B 4
>2
m
a
ft
3
<2
i
57
P=
X
(ll
$
/
</5
IU
II I I km
N*
pOURTEEN Years of service
® under conditions which
cause other roofings to
crumbSe away in less than
half the time is the recom-
mendation of
RUBEROID.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd,, Sydney & Brisbane.
IN OTHER STATES:
Melbourne, Vic. - Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A. - - A. W. Sandford & Co.
Fremantle, W.A. - J, M. Ferguson, Ltd.
Launceston, Tas. - The Tasmanian Woolgrowers’
Agency Co., Ltd.
Hobart, Ta*. ■ - William Crosby & Co.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.—N0. 1313.
THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1905.
Phi oh 3a
THE FINISH.
This is not a general committee meeting of a bowling club. It is the last meeting (years and years hence) of the Commonwealth Tariff Commission. Th.
Commission has at last got to the last item of the tariff, which is zymax-a malted flour that is said to be very good for aged digestions.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
4t A ttsfralnt /'or the A astral inns."
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at tlie Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS]
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Hour to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
[ana, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subs nipt ions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should m no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
always is person may nut be there i the official
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. Ihe right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge m the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales' or Sketches
{those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 loords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings,
dent c^ vrnunica ti° n s will be regarded as strictly confi-
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
W , M be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, fur the: > those sending MS. to distinctly under-
szana that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A nut tours in Itlnch ttnd White,
Anyone, supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taming a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i-e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
tor as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs. B A. Thompson & Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
{!; B. Damson, Johannesburg; Argus Printing Co
Rhodesia; and others. J
Vancouver .—Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., S 3 Queen's Road, Hona
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1905.
RELIGIOUS REVIVALISM.
There is some pathos in the return to these shores
of “General” Booth, promoter of corybantic
religion and sweating philanthropy. The old
man who has failed is always pathetic, however
poor his cause, and allowing to Mr. Booth credit
for some real sincerity, some idea beyond that of
merely making money, he must realise now the
failure of his life-work. The Salvation Army still
grinds the faces of the poor, and as an institution
of sweating philanthropy, survives. But as a
religious force it is dead. Wrote Mr. John
Manson, the other day, in the course of a critical
and severely just review of the Army’s work:—
Anyone who has cared to interest himself in the open-
air work of the Army of late years cannot but have been
struck by two tilings : the increasing- respectability of
officers and soldiers, both male and female, and their
increasing inability to interest grown persons of any class
to the point of getting them to march with them to
barracks.
The London Daily News, as the result of its
recent census of church-goers, came to one inter-
esting conclusion, “the extraordinary weakness
of the Salvation Army., .its wretchedly inade-
quate total after all these years of work.” In no
borough of London did the Army total, as shown
by the News census, reach one-half per cent, of
the population. Australian experience endorses
that observation. Here, too, the blare of the
Army’s cornet dwindles, and with it the “fire”
of the meetings which once swept the weak-
minded off their feet and translated hysteria into
hallelujahs.
* * * *
It is a very good thing indeed that this should
he so, for the Salvation Army adds to the objec-
tionable features which all religious revivals have
special evils of its own—firstly, the gigantic
sweating organisation by which it gathers into its
homes the unemployed, to use their unpaid labor
in competition with the employed; and secondly,
as regards Australia, its position as a gigantic
absentee landlord drawing tribute from the indus-
try and charity of this continent for export
to Europe. But, apart from all considera-
tion of these economic features, the task
will be an interesting one to this gener-
ation of watching the final stages of the
Army, and the uprise of the next hysteria, which
is destined to WT3 its place in the domain of
revivalism. Possibly Evan Roberts, who is now
storming the emotions of the Welsh miners so
that they not only sob and howl at prayer-meet-
in "s, but also drink less beer and hew more coal
(vide press reports), is to be the next “General
Booth, and Australia will welcome him on the
top-wave of his hysteria as it welcomed Booth,
and sympathise with him on its failure, as now
there is a call to sympathise with Booth
* « * *
All religious “revivals” are true to type in their
origin, their growth, and their end. .Religion is
the means by which the aspiration of man towards
the ethic finds expression. Its natural develop-
ment is gradual and reasonable, having its begin-
mngr with the canonisation of the man who sets the
fashion against cannibalism, and its natural end,
one day, m the beatification of the man who goes
into politics and remains perfectly honest, sincere
atK j upright. Progress to be stable must be slow,
and the human race must be gradually weaned of its
egoisms, its passions and its violences. With this
noimal development, as with most other evolu-
tionary processes, there is now and again a violent
disturbance Certain impatient spirits are not
satisfied with the sum of progress or its rate, and
preach what they regard as a counsel of perfection,
lhey are in a hurry to arrive at the Golden Age,
angry at the slow growth which Nature
imposes on religion—it being no more possible
for a religion to rise superior to the general
average of the people _ professing if, than for
gum giants to grow up in a night, or sea beaches
to be made in a minute. The dissatisfied start a
revival. With the progress of civilisation
revivals have lost much of their fierceness, just
as with the ageing of the earth it is supposed that
volcanic outbreaks have lessened in number and
fury. But these religious outbreaks still remain
true to type, and even in minute details show
their common origin. When the Salvation Army
of to-day seizes on the music-hall ditties, making a
hymn of fa-ra-ra-boom-de-ay,” and captures the
slang, chanting that the Deity is a “ bosker,” the
method is precisely that of Arius, whose “revival”
drenched the Christian world in blood during the
first and second centuries. Arius, it is related
by Athanasius, captured the tunes and form
of that most licentious poet, Sotades, to set
to them his theological views for popular
hymns. Civilised nations do not get in this
day such sects as the Circumcelliones, who
went abroad with clubs to convert people to a true
knowledge of God, the alternative to con version
being death. But that is because the police are
better organised. The spirit of fanatic religion is
s £dl willing, but the flesh is not so strong. From
the Donatists of the first century down to Evan
Roberts, the revival is always intrinsically of the
same type, differing only in the method of expres-
sion due to the changes in manners made by civili-
sation. Indeed, in parts of Russia, where educa-
tion is still backward, the modern “revival” can
come close to those foul creeds which festered in
the Libyan desert in the early centuries of the
Christian era. Within the memory of the present
generation there have arisen sects in Russia be-
lieving in self-mutilation of the most disgraceful
kind as a means to salvation.
* * » *
The “revival,” in its first phases, always
appeals to the poor. It professes to have a quicker,
surer way of getting to Heaven than any of the
established religions, and, just as quack medicines
are taken by those who are ignorant and hope-
less of health, so the “revival” attracts such
folk as are so miserable in this life as to
wish for any change, and so ill-developed
in intelligence as to believe in any means of
change, however abs ird. In proportion as the
leaders of the ‘ ‘revival” are genuinely fanatical and
earnest, or artful and ambitious, the movement
spreads, and as it spreads, begins to be something
that must be feared and may be used by the selfish.
If the promoters are fanatical and not artful, people
come in from the outside to turn the movement
from its first purpose ; if, as is often the case, the
promoters have simulated rather than felt a zeal
for religious change, and have really worked upon
rather than shared feelings of fanaticism, they lead
the forces which they have collected to the
advancement of their personal ends. The move-
ment which has been radical becomes respectable,
and revolution merges into re-valuation.
* * » *
But the “revival ” must end in failure whether its
{iromoters be sincere or selfish. Supposing a re-
igious “revival” to originate with genuine passion,
it is yet impossible for it to long remain true to
its first character. Built on a foundation of
hysteria, its stability is always threatened. If
there is anything in its preaching of real value,
any advance in Church discipline and organisation
or in ethical principle that is suitable for
the time, that much is promptly adopted by
the old-established religious organisations; and
then the restof the “revival” platform isleftto the
fate which must attend anything out of step with
the slow march of the human mind to its appointed
end. The “revival ’’has then nothing left of belief
peculiar to itself, but still a large organisation of
people. That organisation is promptly seized upon,
from within or without, to serve some worldly
object. The Salvation Army, for instance, has
proved useful as a social anodyne. The Army has
proved so good a barrier against the Submerged
Tenth as to warrant the patronage of the King,
the nobility, and all the respectable classes of
Britain interested in keeping that “ tenth ’
quietly submerged. The Army, if it has
not filled empty bellies with drum-resonance,
cornet blare, and epileptic mouthings, has at
least made empty bellies to be satisfied.
None will sorrow more in England for the waning
of the Salvation Army than those landlords, ware-
house lords, and factory lords, who wouldn’t put
on a red guernsey for a thousand pounds, but
would willingly give a thousand and more pounds
that the proletariat should comfort their hungry
bellies with such a chromatic outrage, and thus
cease to think over things. It is people thinking
over things who make revolutions and reforms.
The Salvation Army did much, still does a little,
to keep the slums from thinking.
* * * *
But now someone else must take up the burden.
It is time for Evan Roberts, or some
other revivalist, to step into the shoes of
General Booth and grow great enough to
be received by the King; and then dwindle
away in the natural course of things. A
new religion can only live in the first case by its
appeal to the miserable. When it comes to be
used by the. respectable as a means to keep the
miserable quiet, it gradually loses its hold on the
miserable, and therefore its utilityy'and perishes.
“ There is a gratifying improvement in.-the social
condition of those applying for officers’ positions,”
the Salvation Army now claims. And therein
writes its epitaph.
A FEDERAL PENSION SCHEME.
That the hard-up pioneer should not be allowed
to starve is so generally admitted that practically
the only question at issue with regard to old-age
pensions is now one of ways and means. N.S.
Wales found this nut so hard to crack that,
characteristically, it shirked the job, and decided
to issue pensions without providing the means to
pay them. The result has been a deficit every
year since then; and as that deficit has been made
up by borrowing, it means that this State has
been paying pensions out of loans, and the present
generation has passed on the duty of keeping the
aged poor to a future generation, which presum-
ably will have aged poor of its own to keep. In
Victoria, where the same easy policy of drift was
adopted, affairs fell into the hands of men of another
sort, the icicle sort; and, in order to make a good
impression on Cohen, who had a bill of Victoria’s
falling due, the old people’s dole was cut down
shamelessly, and a surplus on general revenue
account was triumphantly produced. It is when
times are bad, and the old man can’t get his odd
jobs to do, that the old-age pension is most needed ;
and it is just then that it is in most danger of
being abolished or whittled away unless the means
to pay it are definitely provided by law.
* • * *
Of the Commonwealth States only N.S. Wales
and Victoria pay pensions; and a continuous
residence of 25 years in the State is one of the
qualifying conditions. This bars out probably one-
third of the most deserving persons. Just as the
flower of the old countries pushed their way out
to pioneer the coastal settlements of Australia, so
the flower of Australians have pushed their way
out West and North as pioneers of the back coun-
try. To a very great extent the Westralian gold-
fields saved the Australian situation after the
bankers and syndicate-mongers had made the
appalling mess of things in the early ’nineties; yet
the Victorian and N.S. Wales men who opened up
Coolgardie and the Murchison in those years, and
eased the strain upon Victoria, and provided
S. Australia with a market, and generally rescued
the continent, are rewarded by being barred from
even an old-age pension. If, when they had lost
their billets, they had mooched into the Melbourne
Treasury Gardens or the Sydney Domain, and
sent the “ old woman ” out to earn a living at the
washtub, the conditions of continuous residence
would have been fulfilled. This is a state of
things which it is impossible to tolerate. We are
Australians now, and the old-age pension must
come by virtue of long service, not to any State,
but to Australia.
« » * •
But how ? It has been seen already that it isn’t
either the safe or the manly thing to simply drift
into the business, and«trust to luck to pull through
somehow. Last session the Federal Parliament
appointed a commission to inquire into the matter
and say how; and a fillip has just been given
to the public interest in its work by the publica-
tion of N.S. W. Statist Coghlan’s views. Always
worth consideration, what he says on the matter
has more interest even than usual, because he has
been the principal officer administering the N. S.
Wales old-age pension law. Basing his estimate on
N.S. Wales experience, he finds that in order to pay
10s. per week to persons over 60 and otherwise
entitled, an annual £1,630,000 would be called
for; 10s. per week to those over 65, £1,476,000;
8s. per week to those over 65, £1,180,000. The
Commonwealth holds about 3,960,000 people, so
that even to pay 8s. per week to the indigent old
person of 65 would call for 6s. per head per annum
of the whole population. Mr. Cogxilan believes
that no more than this can be asked for at present,
though it would still be open to any specially
philanthropic State to supplement the Federal
dole. To provide this money he adopts the sug-
gestion of duties on tea and kerosene, to produce
£800,000, and then accepts, though not very
definitely, a suggestion that the other necessary
£428,000 be raised by a twopenny tax on wages.
* * * *
As to this suggested wage-tax — a bitterly
unjust class tax — only one thing could f be
•aid in its favor : it" might-' induce the old
person who, though desperately I) and nip, will not
accept charity, to come forward’* and claim his
pension as an annuity which he* has- personally
bought and paid for. No doubt there are men
and women who look upon the present State dole
as charity; but it is not at all likely" that 'they
would look upon a pension in any other
if a wage-tax were levied, so long as only theptbr
came forward to get the benefit. If every-'
person of 65, rich and poor, received Ins 8s.
per week, it would be different; but if' only
the poor get it, and some sort of a court has to
satisfy itself that they are poor, and the police
have to make inquiries, and the pensioner mustn’t
be seen in a pub., the wage-tax will not knock out
the charity idea, which now, it is alleged, keeps
many who deserve the dole from applying for it.
So the only argument in its favor that even looks
any good is at bottom.specious and delusive.
The money must be raised, and there is but one
guiding principle in ascertaining the proper
sources from which to raise it. What, generally
.speaking, makes the old-age pension needful?
Why can’t the man make provision for his own
old age; or why doesn’t he? Answer those
questions, and we know where to find the money,
for then we know where the money is that the old
man should have been able to put by. First, there
is the landlord. All the years of his life (speaking
of him in the bulk) the laboring man lias been
paying rent—rent for land whose value the
owner did nothing to create. The more men
rushed to a town to compete with him for his
living, the higher went land values, and the more
the landlord charged, though he poasibly never
saw the town, and never did one single stroke to
advance it. At a low estimate the average man
pays £2 12s. per year for rent of land—Is. a week
to the landlord as interest on a value created by
the community ; and Is. a week paid by a man
from his 21st year is enough, not only to buy him
ap annuity of 12s. a week at 65, but to insure to
his family an amount equal to the total paid
in, m the event of his dying before reaching 65.
And then there is the Bung trade. It isn’t, un-
fortunately, necessary to argue that many an
old-age pension would not be needed if the'beer-
pump had less work to do, or that the money
which ought to keep many an old couple in com-
fort in a cottage is keeping some section or ex-
section of the Bung business in gaudy affluence
elsewhere. At one sweep, State control of this
business would probably reduce by one-third the
number of the old-age pensions called for, and at
the same time provide most of the necessary funds
for the other two-thirds. Further, there is the
three-ball business. In the city of Sydney there
are six pawnshops in the average street, and
the average street is about 200 yards long,
and there are some streets where every fourth
office is the den of some sort or other of
inte rest-sweating harpy. Admittedly a big pro-
port on of this vast crowd of parasites live on
smoked fish and stale bread; but there are
others who wear diamonds the size of saucers,
and help on the business by taking down
the fool, through a pony or two bought with
the money made by taking down the un-
fortunate. If this unholy retail money-lending
business were taken over for the State, it is certain
that both the need for pensions would be reducel
and the means to pay them partly provided.
Finally there is the tobacco business—the smallest
perhaps among those things from which the need
of old-age pensions spring, yet commending itself
as an easily practicable means of supplying great
revenue without inflicting any hardship upon any-
body who doesn’t deserve hardship.
*** r *
If old-age pensions were necessary because people
get too much wages, then a wage tax would be
the very thing to meet the case. But it is simply
because they don’t get enough wages, and because
what they do get don’t go far enough, that the
pensions become necessary; and these things
again simply arise because there are monopolists
who trade on the people’s needs, and squeeze
them, and so live fat. It is the duty of the State
to squeeze those monopolists. Individually, the
community is at their mercy; collectively, the
community has them under control—and it’s a
fool if it doesn’t now exercise that control, instead
of taxing its poor (already over-taxed by the-
monopolist and the horde of non - producers)
through their wages, their tea, and their kerosene..
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The ILS-W. Lands Department.
Mr. Justice Owen is to be appointed a Royal
Commission to inquire into the working of the
iS.S. W. Lands Department. That augurs well.
But the range of his commission has not yet been
settled. On that depends its usefulness. It is
quite possible for a just judge, inquiring only as far
a u 6 18 a^ to do, to be forced to whitewash
a bad system and some bad workers in that sys-
tem. The country wants an inquiry, broad and
deep and wide as can be —an inquiry which will
tell the whole truth and pave the way for a com-
plete remedy. It can, with advantage, be ad-
mitted frankly by the present Government, and
by present officials of the Lands Department,
that such an inquiry would cast reflections on
very many people. There has been a bad, an
utterly bad system, and doubtless many men who
wished to be honest have been, to an extent, its
victims. There will be no call for too great harsh-
ness in their cases. Let the country have the
truth about everybody, with a preliminary recog-
nition of the fact that only guilt which is clear
and unmistakeable shall be punished. If there
has been actual corruption, the rendering of ser-
vices for direct bribes, let that be known ; and, in
all clear cases, let rigorous punishment follow.
If, too, there have been transactions that are shady,..
The Lacking Ideal,
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Gem gives us sight that we may see a star,
And follow it for ever ;
Else we shall be as men that journey far
And find a fireside never.
Ideals make a race, a nation moves ,
By starry lights attended ;
Behind ber lie the royal deeds she loves,,.
Before her triumphs splendid.
A star we need—a great white star of, lyuth -
Firm fixed within our heaven,
I hat gleams of nationhood may light; Qur youth?
And dreams of glory leaven.
False lights we had—red meteorites.that flamed
In lurid skies before us ;
A blood-lust filled our veins, and; unashamed
We howled like wolves in chorus..
We watched them rise and burn, and with their
gleams
Our very thoughts turned ruddy.
We drenched white hands in blood, and in our
dreams
Our nation’s way grew bloody.
We opened our account with Fame, and wrote,
A shameful murder story—
Blood-lust was in our hearts, and in each throat .
A cry for alien glory.
We left our ploughs to plough a bloody field,
And trampled dead men under—
Dead men whose fight for right to God appealed,'.
And filled the world with wonder.
The false lights paled, the meteors passed, and lo !
The evil spell has riven ;
We sighed, as when dreams fade and morning
glow
To troubled eyes is given.
We struck, indeed, for empire, but our thrust
At Freedom’s breast was vital;
When, like the slain, the slayer lies in dust,.
Goo send no red requital !
God give us sight see a star •
And follow it for evbrj
For nations labkihg light as children are a
That find theTr'fireside never.
Eyes watch, pray; for there are some- wild ,
•• - •
The p'eifilg. that betide us,
Add? breathe a hope of better days to be,
With purer men to guide us.
Too long our house a House of Bondage was,
100 long we watched and waited
While public pests like locusts on the grass
Our birthright desolated.
rn?° I , nucll Be lf our statesmanship betrays :■
Ihe-Fraud, set high in station,
Forgets his vows, and then in devious ways,
Sets out to loot the nation.
The well-told lie is great, and they who tell
I hat he we set above us ;
They love themselves what time they stamp and
yell,
And prate of how they love us.
For private gain and sectional applause
A specious tale is fashioned ;
I he liar fouls our robe with dirty paws,
And bellows lies impassioned. ’ t
Not race nor country is his guiding star,
But self ; his eyes self-centre :
Give him but strength, our gates -he.'® strai'di»
unbar °
And bid the Helot enter.
Lest he should slur cur name and foul our blood.
And drive to grim disaster
Our holiest dreams, let it be understood
We need another master.
A master with a noble end in view,
A purpose great and real,
Within whose heavens of over-arching blue
bhall flame a fair ideal.
Let him but come and point the starry way 7 ,
I he fair ideal show us.
And we shall follow till the living ray
And radiance overflow us.
God give us sight that we may see a star
And follow it for ever;
1 or nations lacking light as children are
I hat find their fireside never.
N.S.W.
NOREN.


suspicious, suggestive of undue influence, of weak-
minded complaisance, let that, too be known
even if no penalty is to follow. The need m to
e-et at the whole truth, heedless of what
offence it gives, so that we may know where
we stand. This Ministry will confer the
greatest of public services if it gives the inquiry
the widest power and the broadest scope, even it
bv doing so it brings a shadow of accusation
near to some of its own supporters, its own friends,
or even some of its own members, lne country
wants the truth, and will, without doubt, be
generous after hearing the truth. It is not so
much vengeance for the past as certain reform tor
the future that is wanted. A necessary founda-
tion for that is an inquiry without a fetter. I he
Bulletin expects to find, if such an inquiry is
granted, that the whole secret of the “ difficulty
of settling the people on the land ’ will be laid
bare. It is not the want of people. It is not the
want of land. It is the want of a Lands Depart-
ment that can keep the State’s acres from being
held in idleness or semi-idleness bj dummying
speculators.
Woollens.
These weeks the Tariff Commission has been
listening to evidence about Australian woollens.
Even Senator PuLSFORD would not call woollen
mills in a great wool-growing country “Polar
bear industries.” There ought to be many woollen
mills in Australia because Australia grows wool
enough to attract buyers from all over the world.
But there are not, and the expert witnesses have
given the reasons ; a 15 per cent, duty does not
give the mills a chance against the dumping of
low class goods by low-wage countries; and the
mills cannot get their high-class goods on the
market because people who buy high-class goods
are too prejudiced to deal with the country which
supplies tiieir wealth. The low incomes buy
shoddy, because it is cheap. The high incomes
buy West-of-England or Bannockburn tweed
because of its style. Sometimes they are dressed
in Australian Bannockburn tweeds, but as they
do not know it they do not feel “colonial,” and
they are happy. These two influences cause Aus-
tralians to import £8,838,678 worth of goods to
.clothe themselves. Think of it. A country grow-
ling a big surplus of raw material pays more than
£2 per head of the population to outsiders for
.clothing to cover its nakedness ! _ Freetraders
; say this is a mark of prosperity. It is good, they
.say, for a country to have bills for clothing
...coming from over the sea. Then in the,,
same way it would be good for all families
•rto have big drapers’ bills, and the house-
hold with such bills should be more pros-
perous than the one which makes its own clothing ;
; but hhe first has less money for the butcher and
' baker ; ; the second has more. Protectionists
• want to see Australia in the position of the
■ second lot. Cannot those £2’s per head, or part
. of them, be kept in the country ? And cannot
ithe Tariff Commission accept the fact of
i the amount of money going out of the
, country as reason enough for an increased duty ?
i Of course, the greater part of the eight millions
i is for cotton goods, and so forth. Until we grow
. our own cotton, we must send money away for
. such goods ; but, in the meantime, we can make
; a start with the woollens. Australia sends away
£1,377.780 for woollen goods, and £70,946 for
I blankets. It is quite within the power of the
. Australian Parliament to turn that trade into the
.Australian mills, and, by the time it is absorbed,
jperhaps the matter of cotton will be solved,
(or a light woollen material will be pro-
duced that will be better than cotton. Under
a 15 per cent, duty we use up only 3,702,1021b5.
of our own wool. Maoriland uses up 3,257,3191b5.
of wool. Surely Australia can be brought up to
a relative output with Maoriland. That would
mean a fivefold increase in the output of our
woollen factories, a fivefold increase in employ-
ment, a fivefold increase in profits, and no more
to be paid for clothing our nakedness than we have
to pay now. There is no reason at all why chair-
man Quick of the Tariff Commission should not
report to this effect. The three Freetraders in
the Commission will object, and the Freetrade
|-Prime Minister will be cross, but the com-
munity will benefit. If the Australian Parliament
has the facts as to woollens put before it plainly,
it can hardly fail to act promptly.
The Distributing Thief.
The Federal Tariff Commission, now sitting in
Melbourne, has given to the public some startling
facts as to that very frequent requirement of hu-
manity, a 411 ready-made suit. ’ Various manu-
facturers have been compelled to admit that they
turned out the ordinary suit of colonial tweed or
serge at prices ranging between 17s. 6d. and 20s.
Pressed with questions as to what price the re-
tailers obtained for these goods, they answered
with one consent, “ That is none of our business.
So far the Commission has not placed any retailer
on the stand to com ole te the information officially,
but it is already in most folks’ possession. The
17s. 6d. or 20s. suit is sold usually at prices ranging
‘from 30s. to 455. Evidence, directly corroborative
.of this elicited by the Federal Commission, has
been available in Sydney for years past. Various
woollen-mill proprietors and manufacturers there
have been supplying the serge garments worn
by the StaTe railway employees at a trifle
under 20s. a suit, and making them to order.
But every man who has bought for himself knows
well, and every woman who has bought for a man
knows better, that a suit of clothes equal to that
worn by the railway hand could not be obtained
in any usual way of purchase under 40s. How,
then, do things stand ? The cost of distribution
under absolutely Freetrade conditions, and with
all the stimulus of unrestricted competition, is
equal to the whole cost of production and manu-
facture. To display, sell, pack and deliver these
goods costs just as much as to grow the wool from
which they are made, scour, dry, card, spin,
weave it into cloth, make that cloth into gar-
ments and deliver them at the retail store. It s
a monstrous fact when you get hold of it,
and it is by no means an exceptional case.
Turn from cloth to tea, and exactly similar con-
ditions appear. Tea by auction is sold in every
Australian capital at from sd. to 12d. per lb. lea
retail costs from Is. to 2s. 6d. per lb. The retailers
get, or rather the business of retailing costs under
the “free competition” system, just as much as
planting, picking, drying, packing, shipping, and
delivering. Bread is in the same list. The price
of flour delivered as bread is far more than double
the price of flour at the mill, though the flour sold
as bread has with it a lot of cheap water. Milk
costs the consumer fully three times as much as the
dairyman get; cream four times as much. The same
startling figures might be gathered in connection
with many other commodities of general and daily
use. This matter of the cost of distribution concerns
nine-tenths, probably, of the population. Cheap
goods are worthless to a people if cheapness comes
through the cutting down of the wages rate ; but
the cheapness which would result from economical
"and scientific distribution would be as beneficent
•as that which follows, or ought to follow, an all-
round bountiful season. How long will it take to
get this truth into the general apprehension of man-
kind ? In rational and earnest co-operation is the
only hope of killing out this tax, which is like a
diabetes in our general being; and co-operation
is a word which does not smell sweet to the
average democrat. So many rogues have worn it
as a garment and used it as a trade-mark. But
if the producer and the wage-earner would but
look out understand] ngly, they could not fail to
see the world’s capitalists working out the co-
operative idea practically enough day by day.
Every trust and every combine is a co-operative
scheme, but founded and run for the spoliation of
mankind. And these, within the past quarter of
a century, have scooped up millions. _ The enemy
has got the idea, and makes for his own ends
magnificent use of it. But the great, toiling,
desponding human host regard it as. a mirage
or a closed paradise, or dabble with it. as
society folk dabble with religion. Actually, it is
the other hand and the other arm with which they
must, when they really mean business and con-
template victory, fight the Other Thief. To fight
successfully, they must organise steadfastly. The
way is clear and the end is plain. Realise how all
along the line you are used and “had ” —robbed of
your earnings. And then look at your Carnegie
chief robber, and your Pierpont Morgan, Armour
or Itpman bulging in splendor, overstriding the
world colossus-like, mainly through that co-opera-
tion which is as ready to your hands as theirs.
The Bear and The Monkey.
Russia marshalls its forces to withstand Japan
north of Mukden, and south of Harbin. The
threat of the Baltic fleet remains as the shadow of
a sword on the content which reigns at Tokio.
For the war is to continue. It is good news for
the white race—though it may seem bad news to
Russia, bleeding at home and abroad, in sore need
of time for rest and recuperation. Yet it is hard
to see that statesmen could resolve otherwise
than the Russian rulers. To secure peace from
Japan, Russia would have to make huge conces-
sions of territory. Certainly some of the terri-
tory would be that to which she has no
shadow of a just claim, and which Japan could
hold only by the right of the stronger robber.
But that would make no difference to the prestige
involved. The boundaries of the Empire would
be pushed back, and that by an Asiatic power.
Further, Russia would have to pay an indemnity,
and the Japanese demand would probably equal
an amount sufficient to set the naval power of the
Mikado in Asiatic waters at such a pitch of
strength as to secure the undisputed supremacy of
those seas. And there is no delusion in the
Russian mind as to the ultimate aim of Japan.
Russia is aware that the peace made to-day w’ould
last only so long as was needed to organise Asia for
the next blow against Europe. “Relief ” would
be bought as the Romans bought relief from the
first Gallic invaders, by handing over the means
to prepare fresh attacks. So the war is to go on.
“ Counsel of despair” many will say, but if future
operations are for a while kept to Fabian lines,
there seems no reason why Russia. should not,
even now, retrieve its position. r lhe financial
exhaustion of Japan has proceeded to the point
at which the definite assets and not merely the
general credit of the country have to be pledged
to raise money. Campaigning around Harbin
will be to Japan almost twice as difficult and
dangerous as campaigning around Mukden,
and there will be an appreciable lightening
of Russia's task in keeping its forces sup-
plied. With the coming spring, too, the
resources of Siberia will be available to the Russian
army. The whole position, viewed impartially,
and comparing a Titanic to a pigmy struggle, does
not look worse for Russia than it did for England
in S’Africa after the defeat at Tugela. Were it
possible for Russia to cure its internal disorders,
the war game ivould still be quite an “open” one.
Even as it is, to continue the war seems wiser than
to pay the price Japan would demand for peace.
The odds are heavily against Russia ; but it is
better to face even heavy odds than to endow
Japan with the means to organise an even more
formidable war.
♦
The Mail Subsidy.
Mr. Reid has at last consented.to the Common-
wealth being bled an extra £20,000 a year to
secure a regular weekly mail service to England.
The Bulletin frankly doesn’t think the game
worth the candle, but, as a very large section of
the community does, and that section is made up
chiefly of violent opponents of Socialism, on whom
this bit of Socialism may have a soothing effect,
this paper does not altogether regret that the new
contract has been agreed upon. But let the
Commonwealth bear in mind that there is
no proof at all that the sum exacted for the mail
service is a fair frei-cotnpetition rate that,
rather, the presumption is the other way,
pointing to the fact* that we have the
victims of a general agreement among the Ship-
ping Trust in Britain. If, keeping that in mind,
Australia decides to take steps to prevent such
another “ squeeze “ in future, the lesson will be
worth its price. Australia, by practising Free-
trade in shipping, has left itself almost entirely
without ocean-going vessels. By practising Pro-
tection, on the same lines as America, it can,
within a very few years, change all that, and be
in a different position to bargain when next a
European mail subsidy comes to be talked about.
♦
“Australian Art.”
“San Remo” writes
“ In a Matter of Art ” (B. 30/3/’O5) strikes a keynote ;
and it rings true. The great weakness of Australian Art
is its dead level of sameness. It is bush, bush, bush,
wherever a canvas is seen ; the shade of the eternal gum
tree is over it all. We’re proud of our gum,
but ’tis possible to get too much of a .good
thin". We want more life —living, breathing,
heart-appealing life. Away with your everlasting
landscapes and seascapes. Have we no life in Australia
worthy of glorifying a canvas? Our painters works
would argue that ours is a Deadman’s Land. But what
sav our poets— Kendall, Gordon, Lawson, Oqilvie ? Have
we no truly national life in Australia? What a wealth of
honest, burning, typical Australian life have our artists
to draw upon—from the golden days, the roaring
days” of the early goldfields, “the days when the world
was wide ” to the present 1 Why such a chasm in
spirit between our poets and our painters? Or have
we any painters at all ? To make breathing pic-
tures of our poets’ songs is the art we want. The
writings of Kendall, Marcus Clarke, the deeds of
Peter LALOR-the wild, free, coaching, bushranging,
drovino- days—what subjects for pictures ! Will it pay I
Realise on canvas, say, that pathetic figure, emblematical
of the last flicker of a dying race-and Australia will
answer you. What Art Gallery in Australia but would
be adorned with such a picture-- The Last of h.s Tribe. •
♦
A Backblocks Bogey.
The agent who handles Crown lands business
would have his wing-feathers clipped if the back-
blocks person could be got to believe that the Band
Boards won’t bite. The average backblocker
would rather yoke a wild bull any day than sit at
a table strewn with pens, blue papers, and red-
tape. It is all very absurd, of course, but there is
the fact. And it is not as though the average
Land Board wore any large quantity of frill and
feathers. Most of the chairmen have been dis-
trict surveyors, and the surveyor is nearly always
a common-sensible, practical man whose training
and hard roughing-it have not predisposed him to
millinery and other forms of ostentation. And
still, afraid almost to open his mouth when the
“land board court” sits, the selector sheepishly
falls a victim to the agent who lies in wait for
him. In the interests of that agent, too, weird
tales are told of the pitfalls in the land laws, until
almost the whole backblocks population has been
got to believe that you have to be up to all sorts of
tricks to get through safely ; with the result that,
when a back blocker with more confidence in himself
than the rest —a rnulga lawyer they call him in one
part of the country —appears in person, he invari-
ably gives the current impression which the others
withhold, that he knows what they’re all after —
they want to trap him, and turn him out, or make
him pay something extra, and he isn’t going to
fall in. The reform will have to begin with the
Crown Lands Agents, who are public officials.
They are the people with whom the Crown tenant
oftenest comes in touch —they are, in fact, in
touch with the tenant all the time. It would be
a very good thing, perhaps, if the Crown Land
Agent were permitted to act as a sort of amicus
curiae when the selector’s business is before the
board. And the boards themselves ought to
break down the absurd notion that it isn’t
safe for settlers to approach them except under
the wing of solicitor or agent. That will mean an
entire reversal of the attitude of some boards,
which, so far, either because it shortens proceed-
ings sometimes, or because it adds to the import-
ance of their “court” in the township’s eyes,
like to have a lawyer or an agent in a case.
But, reversal of policy or not, the agent or lawyer
should be frozen out, since every agent or lawyer
around these board meetings (they shouldn’t be
called “courts ” at all, as though the settler were
a suspected criminal on trial) adds to the burden
of the struggler on the land.
Another Trade Scandal.
The inquiry by the Victorian Health authorities,
prompted by Premier Morgan, of Queensland,
into the “ weighting ” of Victorian leather, shows
up the exporters of that staple in just about as bad
a light as the butter-men have been seen in lately.
Briefly, the report of Govt Analyst Wilkinson
sets forth that out of 51 samples of leather from
10 Victorian tanneries 11 were impregnated with
barium chloride and glucose to the extent of from
11 to 16 per cent. Leather is at present valued at
lOd. per lb., the two adulterants named cost Id.
per lb. each, so the tanner made a dishonest
“ profit ” of £l3 Bs. 9d. on every ton of
leather he sold. The object, of course, is
to “weight” the leather, but one of its
effects is also to deteriorate it ; scientists
also say that barium chloride tends to induce
pneumonia—certainly, it is poisonous. Premier
Bent is understood to be skirmishing round for
some statute that will reach these fraudulent
adulterators, but so far without success.
“Customs” McLean has perfunctorily remarked
that it seems to be more a State than a Federal
matter, and he doesn’t see that he can do any-
thing. This is regrettable enough, but the worst
feature of the case is that pretty well every tanner
who has opened his mouth on the subject has been
eager to back-up this disgraceful fraud. They
have said : (1) It is done elsewhere ; (2) it is quite
harmless; (3) nobody is swindled, because the
buyer knows the leather is “loaded,” and gets it at
a commensurately lower rate. All which is flam.
If the buyer knows the leather is “weighted,”
and so gets it cheaper, and if there is no pecuniary
advantage to the tanner, why put the loading in
at all? A drastic, far-reaching Adulteration Act
is badly needed. It should embrace all exports
and imports, and all articles manufactured for
home consumption, and it should provide gaol,
“without the option,” for every deliberate adul-
terator.
♦
The Tender Mercies of the Octopus.
This cryptic cable was stowed away the other day
in the newspapers :
The House of Lords, deciding on an appeal in favor of
the retail tobacco dealers, held that Ogdens, Limited,
were liable for the distribution of the promised £200,000
per annum for four years.
To the Australian retail tobacco trade the message
had, or should have, a lot of meaning; for it
powerfully illustrates the treatment which the
retailers get from a trust when it secures com-
mand. Before the British and American oetopi
had decided to go hunting together, the Imperial
(British) Tobacco Co. was formed to fight the
Americans out of the market; and, as part of
the scheme, it offered the retailers £50,000 a
year to boycott the trans-Atlantic trust. But,
large as this amount was, a branch of
the trust—Ogdens, Limited—capped it with
an offer of no less than £200,000 a year for four
years—Boo,ooo golden proofs of the profit which
the wholesale tobacco trade squeezes out of re-
tailers and public. With this bait the co. ob-
tained the signatures of 10,000 retailers, all bind-
ing themselves to the Ogden Co. But about this
time the two oetopi decided that it would be
much better business to feed in brotherly amity
upon the retailer and the public ; so they fixed up
an international trust —and the contract bearing
these 10,000 signatures was handed over as part of
its assets, and it is alleged that the Trust paid no
less than £1,500,000 for it. Ogdens then went
into liquidation ; the Trust denied all liability for
the £800,000; and the liquidator offered the re-
tailers, not their £BOO,OOO, but £lOO,OOO in full
satisfaction of all claims, Instead of accepting
it, however, they formed an association, fought
the matter right up to the Privy Council, and, as
the cable shows, won. . The president of the Re-
tail Tobacconists’ Alliance, with a knowledge of
the sort of thing that happens to the trade when a
trust gets really to work, said lately
He had met Mr. Duke (the representative of the
American octopus, who fixed up the business in England),
and admired him as a man ; but, as the head of a gigantic
trust, such men were better in heaven. T< usts were bad,
and the man who come into their midst to create a trust
was adding to the sum of their misery.
Yet, using the State-monopoly bogey, the Aus-
tralian octopus, which is first cousin to the Anglo-
American octopus, is relying mainly upon the
Australian retail trade to fight the one thing
which can deliver this country from the trust.
It is practically impossible to conceive of the
State being a party to the repudiation of
contracts such as the British tobacco people
tried; yet the octopus is being pictured to the
retailers as a benevolent institution, formed
in the interests of the retailers and the
public, while the State is represented as a
destroying Gorgon. The Privy Council repre-
sents the State; and in this very first great
contest between monopolist and retailer, the
retailer can get a good idea as to which of the
two—State or private monopoly—he will get the
fairer deal from
In re the Sims v. Browne case—which disclosed
the fact that Sims paid to land agent and ex-
M.P. Willis £6OO as a consideration to obtain the
conversion of his family’s several settlement leases
into one improvement lease—the magnitude of the
contract which Willis took on, and his faith in
his power with the Lands Department, may
be realised from the following facts : —Settlement
leases under the Act are granted only for such
lands as have been proved suitable for immediate
use as farms. And they are very properly bur-
dened with onerous conditions, such as that the
lesse shall pay an annual rent of 1-J per cent, on
the capital value of the farm ; shall pay the value
of improvements as appraised ; make the farm his
bona, fide residence during the ivhole of the lease;
fence the farm within five years ; keep it free from
rabbits and other noxious animals and noxious
weeds; and, finally, the lessee may not assign or
sub-let without the Minister s express consent.
Improvement leases, on the other hand, are only
granted, to quote the Act—
of Crown lands which, by reason of inferior quality,
heavy timber, scrub, noxious a. als, undergrowth,
marshes, swamps, &c., are not suitable for settlement,
and can only he rendered suitable by the expenditure of
large sums of money.
And practically the only onerous, condition
attached to such leases, for the rent is a neglig-
able factor, is such improvement of the land
dering the term of 28 years as will make it ulti-
mately fit for settlement —a condition which, - in
Sims’ case (since Sims’ land was already proved
to be quite suitable for settlement) would have
amounted to a dead letter. The conversion pro-
posed should be impossible under the Act, and
was only feasible by the Lands Department over-
riding the law.
“Chasselas”: Bent’s Closer Settlement Land
Purchase Board is travelling over Victoria,
drawing fees, piling up expenses, and making
recommendations that set in motion yards of
red tape, which will strangle the agriculturists
who do any settling under the conditions they
offer. The Wyunna estate was purchased at 25
per cent, above its value, ostensibly because it
was irrigable land. Yet this so-called irrigable
land is to be let out for wheat-farming under
ordinary conditions, though the climate is too dry
to allow of .anything but failure without irriga-
tion. As the Government has purchased the land
on the basis of its irrigability, why not do the
necessary grading and channeling, and cut it
into blocks for irrigation ? Becently the board
appeared at Wickliffe-road, the centre of S.W.
Vic.’s rotten tenant system. Apparently, the only
persons who knew of the visit were the local squat-
ters who looked after the board throughout its visit.
No evidence was taken from the agriculturists who
are to take over the land, though the board drove
within speaking distance of them. It is safe to
assume the land-owning crowd were not slow in
producing the outrageous renting agreements,
wrung from unfortunate, drought-stricken mallee
cockies, showing 10s. to 12s. 6d. an acre paid for
land which they themselves have valued to come
under the 3d.-an-acre land-tax. Early in the history
of the tenant system present writer pointed out
that squatters were making dupes of the tenants
to load their land before the Closer Settlement
Act became law, and the forecast has turned out
correct. The only course open to Vic. now is to
tax the squatters on the rental value they are
charging their tenants.
♦
Dr. J. Beattie Crozier, in the Fortnightly
Review :
The mixing of antagonistic races on the same areas and
soils is the supreme crime, the supreme treachery to a
country ; more infamous than treason in war ; and for
which the names of all engaged in it must be execrated
in after ages—as, indeed, the history of the negroes in
America, of the mixture of Spaniards and Indians in,South
America, of Greeks, Bulgarians and Turks in Hungary, and
of Jews on the Continent everywhere, has demonstrated
and painted in colossal characters black on the walls of
the world. And for the following reasons: —The first, and
the one on which the others depend, will come to most
people as a novelty, and yet to evolutionists it need only
be stated for its truth and significance to be at once seen.
It is this : that civilisation, with its fine flower of all that
is best in character, intelligence, morality, and love of truth
and justice, and which it is as much a part of national
honor with each generation to transmit untarnished and
undimmed to its children as their heritage and birthright
as the national soil itself, is not a thing which is built
into the very texture and organisation of a people,
like their appetites, their sensual loves, their love of
children, and the like, as a thing of course, whose
indefinite continuance may be as much taken for granted
(as, indeed, it is by those who look merely through the
keyhole of to-day) as the continuance of time itself. On
the contrary, it is as much an artificial product and
hothouse growth as the flowers in a conservatory, and
like them will, without the most assiduous care and
culture, speed ly relapse into the wild state again.
Unfavorable material and social conditions, like unfav-
able atmosphere and soil, will, indeed, gradually destroy
the finest qualities of fruit and flower of civilisation, but
if vou would ruin them all at a stroke, all you have to do
is,"as with the finer breeds of dogs or pigeons, to mix
antagonistic races on the same areas, and let them have a
free run of promiscuity. If this were consistently carried
out, and on a sufficiently large scale, you could set back
civilisation as much in a generation as in a hundred
years by the ordinary process of decax - . Not even inter-
marriage or promiscuitv is necessary. Mere proximity is
enough. Transplant enough Kaffirs to England to do its
menial or unskilled work, and enough Chinamen, or
Hindus to do the more refined and skilled forms
of labor, and in a generation of two not an
Englishman could be found to do a stroke of manual
work at all for love or money. England as a factor
in civilisation would be wiped out of the high
circle of nations, and its inhabitants would differ as much
from the men we know, as the “ mean w'hites ” of the
South before the War did from their go-ahead brothers of
the North, who have made the America of to-day. Now,
the reasons why a civilisation is so quickly destroyed are
mainly three. The first is psychological, where the effect
of such admixtures, especially when the races are so
radically different as the Aryan and Semitic, the Negro
and the Mongolian, is, as is well known, to eliminate
from the offspring the best points in the character of both
parents, and to bring them down to the instincts of the
barbarians from whom all civilisations alike have started ;
in the same way as crosses between the finest opposite
breeds of pigeons are sure, sooner or later, to bring a
reversion to the wild “blue rock” pigeon from which
they originally sprang. The second effect is a result of
the first, and is sociological, namely, that all the finer
products of civilisation and morality which come from the
breed or stock of the men on whom these products have
been engrafted, are, by this admixture, quite shorn away,
and the work of civilisation has all to be built up
again from the beginning, and this time from an in-
ferior stock; so that the very end for which the
idealist reformers are so zealously striving, namely, a
higher morality, is, like the song of an over-fed canary,
blasted by the means used to compass it. The third effect
of mixing antagonistic races on the same soil would be to
degrade the higher code of morality of civilised peoples
by reason of the political and social antagonisms it would
engender, by the passions it would let loose, and which, if
continued long enough, would, as seen in the lynchings of
negroes in America, gradually sink society to the ethics of
the ages of barbarism and civil war; and so again the
work of civilisation would all have to be built up afresh
from the beginning.
♦
The Chief Mechanical Engineer of the Victorian
railways supplied Protectionists with a fine
argument in some evidence he gave befote a
commission the other day. The Newport Govern-
ment works have made two lots of engines, 10 in
each lot. The labor cost of the first 10 was
£16,868 ; of the second 10, £14,392. Ther| was
also a reduction in cost of materials. The two
lots of engines were identical, except that an


1 OF 2
Events is Sure—Death or Old Age.
DebentUre Boud f iuth S per cent, mterat guaranteed for 10 yarn) in the
Equitable will make provision against both.
It will protect your family, if you die—or yourself, if you live.
NOW is the time to make such provision—
To-Morrow may be too late.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Please send me particulars of an Equitable
6 per cent. Debenture Bond,
I was born
Name
Address
The pretty and intelligent barmaid—and
what barmaid does not appear p. and i. to the
man who has just squeezed her hand ?—always
serves a seductive* smile to the D.O.L. whisky
customer. She knows that the citizen who goes
nap on D.O.L. is a brainy, courteous person of
good taste—one likely to advance in the world.
Man—as The Bulletin has many times remarked
—is, in a great measure, what he drinks. If he
drinks D.C.L., he thinks and acts D.O.L., and
the girl behind the bar knows him for a wise, self-
respecting chooser of the cup that cheers.*
improved but cheaper footboard was put on the
later lot. Of the total saving of £2400 (after
allowing for the footboards) £1924 was due to
“the use of new and improved machinery, better
working methods, and a general increase of expert-
ness on the part of the men” ; and £336 was due
to the fact that they knew better how to buy
materials. In other words, in return for the com-
paratively small amount that it cost the State to
establish this business, it trained men to the work
and acquired experience so valuable that the cost
of the second lot was reduced nearly 15 per
cent. The foreign-trader doesn’t see anything
absurd in paying a premium to have his son made
expert in drawing plans, or pulling teeth, or
charging six-and-eiglitpence ; yet when the State
Eroposes to pay a premium so that its people may
econie expert in building engines, the same
foreign-trader calls it “ robbery.”
SUNDRY SHOWS
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Orchid.”
Theatre Royal. “A Royal Divorce."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “ The Skirt Dancer.”
Prince Alfred Park.. Wirths’Circus.
Belmore Park Fitzgeralds’Circus.
Queen’s Hall Abomah.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Toni Moore.”
Theatre Royal “LaFille Du Tambour Major.”
Opera House Little Tich.
Athen®um Hall Avalon Collard Comedy Operetta
Co.
Prince’s Court Cafe Chantant: The Chute, &c.
The Tivoli’s latest newcomer of note is
Miss Alice Pierce, and when you find her sand-
wiched between “Moorish Revels” and the
Whistling Coon, you begin to realise, if you
didn’t before, that the Rickards bill is a variety
bill. She gives “impressions” of several people
who are not known to this country and
one or two who are, and strikes one
as being too good an artist to waste
her time in being a mere imitator. Her
hair is hanging down her back (and past it),
and she seems young and fresh and natural enough
never to have worn it any other fashion; and
the way in which she merely introduces her
business, when she isn’t mimicing anybody,
is as charming as anything in her “turn.”
Kara, _ the juggler, would now hardly be
recognised as the same Kara whom The
Bulletin last saw just after he had finished
his long sea-trip. The warbler can warble all the
way out, and Paderewski can still keep up his 27£
hours’ practice (or thereabouts) every day ; but
during a life on the rolling wave the man who
juggles with knives and turnips has to take a spell
—and then the early performances suffer. Come-
dian George Dean is a much-applauded item in
the bill; and a mysterious kettle is billed to take
away the breath of the Man from the Land, who
will presently take a week off from ploughing and
look Sydney up at show-time.
** * #
George F. Boyle made a palpable hit
with his pianoforte recitals at the Sydney
Y.M.C.A. Hall last Saturday evening. The
large audience included many musical stu-
dents of the fair sex, who are too
apt to go into raptures over every male pianist
who comes along, especially if he be a verdant
bachelor; but their wild applause of all the young
Sydney performer’s efforts was sufficiently
leavened by that of hard-headed critics to make
the commendation of consequence. Of the origi-
nal compositions, presented, the most interesting
was the “Fantasie” trio, in which the pianist
had the assistance of Messrs. F. Mowat Carter and
Bryce Carter as violinist and ’cellist respectively.
This is a bright, melodious, and, for the most part,
well-written work, in the free form allowed by its
designation. Other solo compositions of young
Boyle for the piano show that he has the gift of
inventiveness, which he will do well to cultivate
as Well as his playing. He has already worked up
a good technique, and what he now mostly
requires is a steadfast avoidance of anything ap-
proaching “ swelled-head,” and a mellowing down
of manual force and dexterity, so that he may at-
tain intellectual expression, delicate nuances, and
tenderness of touch. At present he is at that
awkward period of development which Mark
Hambourg has almost passed through, and during
which the young performer, dazed and stupefied by
the ready acclamations of the undiscerning, is apt
to dash into mere bravura efforts on the slightest
provocation. In his interpretation of Grieg’s
Ballade (Op. 24) spurious sporzandos, betokening
false emotion, were especially noticeable. With
the perfect graduated phrasing of the famous tone
poet, Paderewski, still so vividly within recollec-
tion, there is no excuse for that sort of thing. The
lesson which the great exponent of Chopin taught
above all others was that it is never necessary to
thump the piano, and that the finest effects are
those of pianissimo.
*# * *
Life of “The Orchid,” at Her Majesty’s,
is limited to less than another fortnight. It has
been wonderfully freshened up this week, with
some pruning and several graftings in the shape of
new topical songs given by Miss Clinton,
and the Pre historic Man of Mr. Lauri. Dressed
in a wild-beastskin, with matted locks and
carrying a club, the cave-dweller announces that he
is married to Her of the Terrible Tongue, and
after his references to his home under the rocks
and his rival, Him of the Knotted Knee, and his
mate. Her of the Frightful Face, the audience
feels itself quite well acquainted with the Paleo-
lithic age. After the Orchid, the Cingalee.
** * #
Fitzgeralds’ circus will be on the old spot
in Belmore Park at Show-time, with the Jap
wrestlers, and many horses, and a newly-imported
roupe of aerial gymnasts, and a flock of elephants,
and other strange animals, who will all strive to
live up to the Fitzgerald reputation. Saturday
of this week will witness the first rush of patrons.
* * * *
Sydney Lyceum Theatre, which it was
said George Musgrove, its recent lesseee, had
been nibbling at, has been bought by Mr.
Ebenezer Vickery, M.L.C., who is reported to
have paid £24,000 for it, and proposes to use it
“ for reform purposes.” The buyer is a trustee of
Sydney Y.M.C.A., and when he got on
the platform at Yankee F. B. Smith’s
Town Hall meeting on Sunday, just after
the purchase had been announced, received as
much attention as the advertised star. Sydney
Y.M.C.A., these times, is run by Mr. J. J. Virgo,
a muscular young Australian with a big singing
voice and a love of elbow-room, who shocked the
barnacles of the association shortly after his
arrival by proposing to put The Bulletin along-
side the S.M. Herald in the reading-room.
Understood his influence has been at work in this
newest business.
* # * *
Elsewhere an artist sketches a number of
the things that will happen when the Wirths un-
fold their green tents in Sydney Exhibition
Grounds, near Redfern Station, on Saturday.
When the circus was here three months ago there
was a thrill every three minutes, and as more
thrills have since been added, the intervals have
been reduced to 2min. 45sec. Bar the price of
admission, everything else has been increased—
including Tom Colquett’s jump, Chefalo’s leap,
the menagerie, and the alligator’s appetite.
* # #
The seven ages of man looking down
from above the stage of Sydney Criterion won’t
know the old place when the lights are turned up
on Saturday night, and “The Skirt Dancer”
begins Stephenson’s season of frivolity. For the
last three months a contractor has had an unin-
terrupted run, with the stonemason, and the
upholsterer, and the decorator playing the leading
parts. Between them they have made a solid
£6OOO worth of difference to the house. The stalls
have been stretched out towards Pitt-street, so
that the bald-headed gentleman needn’t sit so close
up to the stage if he doesn’t want to; the
approaches have been improved, and the City
Council committee’s reproaches have been re-
moved. George Stephenson’s co., which has first
use of the reformed house, was seen in Sydney a
year ago; but “The Skirt Dancer” is new to
these parts.
* * * *
Sydney Palace Theatre, which hasn’t been
able to get a license lately, for one thing because
it had a couple of big electric-light boilers stowed
away underneath, just where they would boil
most people if anything happened to them, has
been struck out of the theatrical index expurga-
torius. Trustees of George Adams’ estate are
shifting the boilers, and other changes have been
made, so that Easter will probably see the decora-
tive little show-house open again.
* * * *
Au revoir, but not good-bye, to Bland
Holt and Mrs. 8.H., likewise the B.H. co., who
finish their moral-show and their long Sydney
season simultaneously on Friday evening. This
week and last Albert Norman’s betting book has
been his nightly ruin,'-but Baker has been rescuing
him amidst great applause. B. Holt now goes
back to Melbourne, taking with him (judging by
the size of the houses all through the 12| months)
much golden treasure, and leaving in return plea-
sant but confused memories of vice riding trium-
phant on galloping horses through three acts, with
virtue in the saddle at the finish.
* sie * sfe
At the Queen’s Hall, on Saturday next,
Abomah, the African Giantess, will make her first
appearance in Sydney, in conjunction with her
own company of entertainers and an entirely new
collection of waxworks.
* * * *
“ J. 0.8.” takes another view :
There is no doubt that the familiar stage Irishman is
passing, and enter the new type, like the coming Mr.
Andrew Mack. The new type of Irishman on stage and
platform must, it appears, be genial and, it would seem,
genteel. But who are they who’ve brought about this
cry for the death of the Irish cock-robin ? Most certainly
not the genial Irishman, most certainly not the genuine
Irishman at all. Granted that he was largely a burlesque,
that fellow with his coat buttoned behind him, and
dinged caubeen and unfailing blackthorn. But he was
the caricature of common traits. It wasn’t Ireland that
first kicked at him ; it was the Irish section of America
and Australia. Ireland has enjoyed him for a century,
and in folk-songs and merry-makings since the days of
Sarsfield, ana the Irish in Ireland would, if let alone,
enjoy him for centuries to come, but the Yank and
’Possum Irishmen, especially such of them as have taken
to tall hats and a smirk, call him “vulgar.” Stage man-
agers will accordingly supply a genteel article in his
place, and the refining will go on till the Irishman of
comedy will have altogether ceased to be an Irishman
even in Ireland. Those who say that the stage Irishman
is not a legitimate caricature, but a libellous misrepresen-
tation, know little of the matter. He exists to-day in
Donegal, Connemara, and even in Dublin, and in Aus-
tralia wherever he has been able to maintain an Irish
quarter. His loss will be irreparable to the broad farce of
the world.
* * # #
The curtain-raising comediettas that grow
in England are mostly sickbed o’er with mawkish
sentiment; probability is sacrified to “prettiness”
and the climax defies belief. A curtain-raiser, en-
titled “ The Borrowed Uncle,” appears to be the
masterpiece of saccharine foolishness thusfar. The
name character is a hungry burglar (the same old
burglar with a sorft ’eart who has figured in fifty
previous comediettas) in search of compassion and
portable property. He has escaped from prison,
and whilst hiding in a house he hopes to burgle,
this incredible Bill Sikes learns that a spoony
pair of lovers would get married im-
mediately if a tough old uncle would
put up the cash. They discover the hidden
Sikes, and give him food instead of giving
him into custody, whereupon he swears to show
his gratitude in a substantial manner. On hearing
the name of the tough uncle, Burglar Bill remem-
bers that he is identical with an unconvicted
forger. So he blackmails uncle to the tune of
£5OO, hands the money over to the lovers, and
then walks back to prison with the warders who
have come to fetch him, like the escaped convict
in “Ihe Village Priest.” He hasn’t exactly
earned the martyr’s crown, but he has made two
young people ’appy. Therefore he is ’appy, and
the tears of the congregation are earnestly re-
quested. This sort of thing passes for pathos
with a London audience.
* *- *
The revival of Offenbach’s “ Tambour
Major,” at Melbourne Royal, strikes a note of
interrogation. Why should this antique opera-
bouffe, in which there are not more than two
catchy airs, nor any hero or heroine to speak of,
be so affectionately remembered by people whose
impressions are 20 years old ? Kindred French
operas of the comic-grand order, equally attractive
in their time, contained music more popular
than anything in “Tambour Major,” but they have
dropped out of mention whilst this heavier work
has remained in an odor of celebrity in Melbourne
and Sydney. The answer to the inevitable question
is mainly Henry Harwood and partly Johnnie
Wallace. The late Harwood played Le Due
Della Volta in the early ’Bo’s. His matter-of-fact
treatment of the part (including certain bits of
“business” which Fred Leslie had created) was
too funny for words. John Wallace appeared as
the Marquis Bambini, a frivolous, smileless idiot
ambling and sidling about the stage in attendance
on the Due, but never in the place where the half-
blind potentate expected to find him. A
droll planet revolving around an incomparably
humorous sun. What time the Due and Bambini
held the stage, the public wept tears of
laughter. They didn’t laugh at much else
in the opera. Robert Brough as the Tambour-
Major was a comparative failure ; Nellie Stewart,
as his daughter, was a minor consideration. The
chorus music came next in importance to the pair
of companion comedians, and the spectacular
effects went for something, but the success of the
opera in Australia 20 years ago radiated from the
Due-Bambini combination. The fact is recorded
in the survival of the old catch-line, “lam here,
dear Due.”
* * * *
The “Tambour Major” of last Saturday
night was a feeble show in the principal parts:
amateurish, not thoroughly rehearsed, and
strangely deficient in singing power. Both
Hanstein, the musical conductor, and M‘Nicol
Turner, who got the co. together, have been
associated in the past with brighter amateur
performances than this, although it is well staged
and thickly populated. The crowded spectacle and
the volume of chorus vocalism give some dignity
to the performance. The principals carry no
weight. In the tall, thin person of George
Majeroni the Due is a mere suggestion of a joke;
he hasn’t even the traditional Della Volta method
of taking snuff. Majeroni is at least an intelligent
actor, but in this case he under-acts an unsuitable
character, whilst the Bambini (M’Nicol Turner)
labors in his gambols and obtrudes their crude-
ness. Miss Ramsay is a natty little Stella,
who sings out of tune; Miss Ettie Carlisle
shows no marked claims to distinction; and the
voice of shapely Maud Thornton has not grown
richer since she was previously heard in public.
All the same, Maud Thornton is a vivacious
drummer-boy with sweetly harmonious limbs.
Signor Achille Rebottaro makes the most of his
limited baritone, and puts tremendous expression
into his rolling orbs, and comports himself in the
finest Achille manner; also Miss Opie and the
gigantic Con Burrow promise to improve as they
proceed. The show altogether will improve con-
siderably during a run of 11 nights, but it will not
cease to be disappointing.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s there is a silent interval
of two days between the departure of Miss
Jeffries and Julius Superbus and the forthcoming
of Andrew Mack and Co. Andrew Mack is an-
nounced as a modernised Boucicault among Irish
character actors, who has brought his own co. to
this country to illustrate the points of difference
between new Irish drama and ould Irish drama,
and do honor to the shamrock in both sorts of
narrative. He starts the tour on Saturday with
an up-to-date play of the newest green tint, en-
titled, “ Tom Moore.”
** * *
Little Tich is accounting for a persistent
rush of patronage at Melbourne Opera House,
where the programme, apart from Tich, is of a
hai-dy annual character. The little man’s merits
have been lately stated in The Bulletin. His
diminutiveness is the least remarkable character-
istic of his Tichness. The term “droll” would
fit him just as well if he were a tall comedian and
dancer doing many of the same things in the same
way. Presumably he couldn’t get boots to sup-
Eort him at an angle if he were a full-sized Tich,
ut the boots are only one novelty in his assort-
ment of tricks. The man is an artist who has
polished his little bits of “business” until they
look like brilliant inspirations.
#* * *
The Athenaeum Hall will be re-opened on
Saturday by a Comedy Operetta Co., under the
direction of Edward Branscombe. A comedy-
operetta co. in a German Reed entertainment is
expected to run somewhat on the lines of the late
Mel. B. Spurr, and the names of two particular
entertainers loom large in the advt.—Avalon
Collard and Roland Henry.
* * * Ut
Melbourne Princess’ is still waiting for the
return of Miss Tittell Brune in Easter week. At
the Town Hall an orchestral concert—the first of
the Peterson series—happens to-night (Thursday);
and at the Bijou a popular-priced melodrama
never fails to occur, except on Sunday. Prince’s
Court is likewise open to receive visitors every
week. Flower shows and bazaars are thrown into
the Court’s bill of fare from time to time without
prejudice to the usual fixtures. Miss Kellermann
has been a picturesque fixture for many weeks,
but her engagement is about to expire. Bonnie
Annette talks of leaving for London on the 25th —
by the Ophir, in preference to swimming across
the waste of waters.
The Wild Cat Column.
Treasurer Carruthers is flitting from town to
town, and every time he mounts a perch crows vigorously
that this year he is paying £350,000 out of revenue for a
sinking fund. Generally the report mentions “ Loud ap.
plause.’ But the business doesn’t justify either the crow
or the applause. Engines bought with borrowed money
have been going on the scrap-heap for years, bridges
have been rotting*, dredges have been turning to rust.
A sinking fund should be a set-off against that rust
and rot. But Carruthers’ sinking fund is mostly nothing
of the sort. At the end of last financial vear the N.S W
accumulated deficiency was £2,501,(190. That represents
policemen’s wages that were paid out of loans, and the
politicians’ picnics that were paid for bv a small advance
from Cohen. Parliament years ago decided that that
deficiency should be made good at the rate of £250,000 a
year, so that £250,000 of Carruthers’ sinking fund is a
statutory obligation to pay up policemen’s hack wages,
&c., which were temporarily squared floating Treasury
bills. Moreover, Treasurer Carruthers has had, for the
past nine months, £1,298,315 of land revenue, a great part
of it derived from the sale of the public estate (last year
the total amount derived from land sales, and used as
revenue, was £1,030,138); in other words, he has sold his
securities, and collared the proceeds as revenue, except
for this small amount of £350,000. If a footpad stole £lO,
and then made a virtue of handing back £3, the public
would snort at him. But in very similar circumstances
the same public rewards its politicians with “loud
applause.” Which only shows how much more virtuous
the public expects its footpads to be than its politicians.
* * * *
Next time Bully Bent charges the Federal
Government with extravagant outlay at the expense of
the States in general, and Victoria in particular, it would
be well for Treasurer Turner, or somebody, to draw atten-
tion to the manner in which the Commonwealth printing
office has been exploited by the Victorian Government.
Here is an example of money wasted on the one hand,
with official “besting” on the other, arising from the
complex conditions of Federal and local government busi-
ness in the temporary capital of Australia. In 1903 the
Commonwealth printing office set up three monotype
machines on the second floor of the main building devoted
to the Vic. Government Frinter. At the same time, or a
while later, 16 linotype machines (worth about £14,000)
were imported by the Commonwealth office, and
placed hastily in the old power-house near the Vic.
Govt, printing office aforesaid. The Commonwealth
printer started to work on the Federal rolls, but
owing to the lack of proper foundations for the heavy
machines and the unfitness of the type-metal ordered by
the State Government, a lot of extra time and money
were lost in the production of those rolls. Subsequently,
the linotypes were pulled down and re-erected on new
foundations at the cost of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, but to the benefit of the State Government’s
property. But it is now proposed to clear all the printing
plant out of this newly foundationed building (the former
power-house), Bent having claimed it on behalf of the
Government analysts, with a view to amalgamating their
departments under one roof. The building which the
Commonwealth authorities strengthened at a cost of two
or three hundred pounds is to be handed back to the
State landlord without question of compensati on. Where,
then, are the 16 linotype machines to go ? They are to be
Installed on the third floor of Bent’s Government printing
office—a building not large enough to accommodate the two
printing departments when their work will have increased
beyond the present output. It is inevitable that wi thin a very
few years the Commonwealth plant will need to be shifted
to another pitch. Meanwhile, the State printing office is
to be strengthened, at the Commonwealth’s expense, to
bear the new burden of those 16 linotypes, and what with
alterations, cost of moving, etc., the expense will be fully
£2OOO, if not more—and all because Bent didn’t provide a
suitable fixed habitation for the Federal Government
printing office in the first instance.
So much for the matter of needless expenditure
in the fixing and shifting of printing plant. Now, as re-
gards the financial advantages that Bent gains through
having the Commonwealth plant at the service, more cr
less, of the Vic. State. Bent’s Government .is prac-
tically boss of the situation, and the. Commonwealth
machines have been used by the local office, and in the
confusion of accounts the State gets the benefit of all
doubts, and so it came about that a saving of £5OO was
effected in the State Hansard expenses for last session.
The Commonwealth pays for Bent’s “economies,” and
the Commonwealth printing machines, being worked two
shifts per day, are having the term of their natural lives
shortened by one-half. These are instances of how Bent
is able to work points on the Federal Government. One
other point is said to be worked at the cost Of his own
Government servants. From the outset it has been the
rule for the Commonwealth printing department to
allow overtime payment for the State servants employed
on the job. For a while the money was duly received by
the people for whom it was intended, but when Bent
came to the throne he seemingly decided to confiscate
the little monthly cheque for overtime. At any rate, the
State officials don’t get it. If the cheque is paid over to
the Vic. Government every month, as of yore—well, it
goes into the Treasury and stops there.
* * * *
The M.L. State Fire Insurance office has had
one laugh. The private co.’s “protested” when the
Christchurch Hospital gave a small “ line ” to the State
office ; promptly the committee told the co.’s to put their
protest in their pocket, and take notice that it would give
all its business to the State office—just to show what it
thought of these starve-’em-out tactics. So about £BOOO
worth of a first-class risk leaves the co.’s.
* * * *
March was a bad month for State Treasurers.
The results of the boom harvest are nearly worn out, and
things are getting down to normal again. The Customs
revenue has slumped badly—which, however, apart from
the revenue aspect of the matter, isn’t anything to feel
sorry for. Nine months receipts for the Commonwealth
total £6,782,139 ; last year, for the same period, they
were £7,067,269 ; or, in detail—
-1903-4. 1904-5.
N.S. Wales.. ..£2,598,669 £2,403,760 Dec. £194,909
Victoria .. .. 2,099,048 2,183,410 Inc. 84,362
Queensland .. 750,952 697,895 Dec. 53,057
S. Australia .. 532,013 509,404 Dec. 22,609
Westralia .. .. 899,988 806,581 Dec. 93,407
Tasmania .. .. 186,599 181,089 Dec. 5,510
Total (9 mos.) £7,067,269 £6,782,139
The worst sufferers are N.S.W. and Westralia. A while
back they were leaning the most heavily on Cohen ; now
the inflow of borrowed money (represented by foreign
goods) has stopped, so the Customs revenue tails off.
Total State revenue from all sources was as follows
State Revenues for March.
Mar., 1904. Mar., 1905.
N.S. Wales.. .. £1,095,754 £1,036,467 Dec. £59,287
Victoria .. .. 748,272 669,495 Dec. 78,777
Queensland .. 301,979 257,656 Dec. 44,323
Westralia .. .. 323,937 357,484 Inc. 33,547
Tasmania ..• .. 76,896 63,945 Dec. 12,951
Ordinarily the figures for the expired portion of the
financial year give the truest idea of how things aw
moving ; but this year, it has to be remembered, the posi-
tion is not now what it was in the early months, when the
boom harvest was still coming in. N.S. Wales revenue,
for instance, for the past three months falls £160,731
short of that for the corresponding quarter of 1904.
Figures for all States
State Revenues for Financial Year So Far (9 months)
1903-4. 1904-5.
N.S. Wales £8,464,272 £8,408,491 Dec. £55,781
Victoria 5,367,389 5,523,468 Inc. 156,079
Queensland 2,592,951 2,516,965 Dec. 76,986
S. Australia 1,786,307 1,966,621 Inc. 180,314
Westralia 2,632,955 2,634,442 Inc. 1,457
Tasmania 668,409 642,106 Dec. 26,303
Railway revenues of the three chief mainland States have
been
1903-4. 1904-5.
N.S. Wales £2,652,851 £2,819,875 Inc. £167,024
Victoria 2,502,929 2,732,851 Inc. 229,922
Queensland 971,607 1,060,276 Inc. 88,669
The S. Australian returns are not yet completed, hut the
excess railway revenue this year so far is about £88,200.
Apart from the railway revenue, therefore, it will be seen
that, comparing this year with last, the States’ income
has, in most cases, suffered seriously; and the railway
increase was due to an exceptional season. In spite of
£167,024 more railway revenue (this is exclusive of trams),
N.S.W. has collected in the aggregate £55,781 less. Ihe
only State which shows up respectably apart fro. 11 } r ‘V l '
ways is S. Australia. Even Victoria, about which the
loud trumpet is being blown, has suffered £73,843 in a


sdg
Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop.
64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Ltd.
STOCKS in Sydney and Melbourne:—
Steel Rails, Trucks, and all Tramway Accessories.
Robey
Portable & Fixed Steam Engines, Oil Engines, etc.
EAGLE BRAND of Explosives (Gelignite, etc.).
A. E. Leplastrier, Manager
MELBOURNE OFFICE : 504 LITTLE CCLLINS-ST.
PHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor Oil,
* Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Gljue, Shellac, “Sun
Brand ” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro-
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
t3&~ Correspondence Invited.
HY. MARKWALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle,
Auckland, Wellington, funedin, Chrlstohurch,
other directions. Clearly, the troubles of State Trea-
surers are not over by any means. An abnornial railway
revenue has simply hidden the truth for a while.
State Expenditure.
1903-4. 1904-5.
N.S. Wales (9 mos.) £9,106,074 £8,931,673 Dec. £174,401
Victoria (6 mos.) 3,862,858 3,801,162 Dec. 61,696
Queensland(9mos.) 2,330,958 2,286,064 Dec. 44,8
S. mos.) 1,253,359 1,275,938 Inc. 22,578
Westralia (9 mos.) 2,674,712 2,692,601 Inc. 17,889
Tasmania is now the one State which furnishes n ° e p
penditure returns at all—the islanders have to take their
Evanses on trust a whole 12 months. N.S. Wales has
cut its expenses down I‘9 percent., which doesn t seem
anything very stupendous in the way of Reform and
Economy. When Joseph Carruthers “ sw'ept the country
on that ticket a while back, a 10 and 15 per cent. ‘ save
was talked about in quite an airy fashion. The mountain
has brought forth I'9 per cent. Poor little mouse !.
This summarises the position :
1902-3 1903-4 1904-5
Deficit. Deficit. Deficit.
N.S. Wales (9 months) .. £829,758 £641,802 £523,182
Available for Half-year’s Interest.
Queensland (9 months) .. 125,593 261,993 230,901
Surplus. Deficit. Deficit.
Westralia (9 months) .. 290,105 41,727 58,159
Victoria (6 months) .. 624,030 270,350
Deficit. Deficit. Deficit.
S. Australia (6 months) .. 153,485 171,385 85,353.
N.S. Wales is £118,620 better off than last year, Queens-
land £31,092 better, Westralia £16,432 worse, Victoria
£353,680 better for six months, and S. Australia £86,032
better for six months.
Only two States furnish monthly details of loan
expenditure :
1903-4. 1904-5. Decrease.
N.S. W. Harbor Resumptions £469,989 £314,210 £155,779
„ Works, &o 1,461,318 1,143,022 318,296
Queensland 461,332 158,197 303,135
N.S. Wales’total for nine months is £1,457,232, of which
about £lOO,OOO has lately gone to repurchase estates for
closer settlement. The borrowings are thus still at the
rate of £2,000,000 a year—and quite a lot of people believe
that the Reform Governmenc has “practically left off
borrowing.” Kidston in Queensland last. month spent
only £2653 of loan moneys. Carruthers in N.S. Wales
spent £270,606. Which about represents the difference
between Reform and Perform.
• » • •
The experience of the galvanised-iron works at
Lithgow (N.S.W.) is a whole volume on the science of
killing industries. There was for 25 years a duty of £2
per ton on this iron in N.S.W., and, as Government after
Government left it at that, Wm. Sandford thought it was
reasonably safe to assume that a £2 duty was a
settled thing; so he erected a mill. There wasn’t
much profit in it, but he was training men, and
getting to know what machinery was wanted,
and making a market; hence, as there was no mention
of altering the duty, he put up a second mill. Then
George Reid knocked out this duty under his scheme to
make everybody jolly and fat; whereupon the works at
Lithgow staggered, and the workmen could only find
occasional employment. Still Sandford struggled on,
expecting that the Federal Parliament would have ideas
for making a country prosperous, other than sending its
work away for foreigners to do; but all that the
shandygaff tariff did was to put 15s. per ton on
galvanised goods while admitting black-iron sheets
free. That knocked out the industry of making
iron sheets; instead of employing Australian labor
to make the sheets, the Lithgow works were compelled
by foreign competition to buy the product of foreign
labor and materials. Under these conditions the gal-
vanising business struggled along for a few months till
some changes were made in the railway rates ; and then
even that had to stop. The employees, however, asked
Mr. Sandford to give the business another trial, offered to
accept lower wages (these shocking working men, who
are always trying to crush industry!), and under these
conditions a little wprk is still being done. But this fact
sticks out: that no work at all would be in progress but
for that wage-reduction. In other words, workmen can’t
have high wages and a low tariff.
* * * •
N.S. Wales supplies more than one-seventh of
the world’s lead. Latest complete figures are for 1903.
World’s production for that year was 910,000 tons ; but of
that, in European and American statistics, Australia is
credited with only 93,500 tons. Belgium is down for
20,015 tons, England 30,958 tons, and Germany 141,558
tons ; and there was much Australian lead in all three.
N.S.W. alone in 1903 sent out, according to official esti-
mate, lead (metal) 92,293 tons ; ditto in concentrates
29,706 tons. Latter figures were, however, under the
mark. For the lead in concentrates the foreigner gets
all the credit, simply because Australia doesn’t get the
dirt out of its metal before exporting it, and gives that
job to the cuter foreigner. Last year’s N.S.W. output of
lead was 106,038 tons in metal and 59,507 tons in concen-
trates ; and the world’s total for the year was awhile
back estimated at 945,000 tons.
* * • •
South Australian Brewing Co. (Adelaide)
Added Nominal
Profits. Dividends. Written to Re- Re-
Feb., Off. serves, serves.
1897 . £7 285
1898£20,244 7 p.c. = £17,500 £l7BB £956 8*241
1899.. 15,953 5 „ „ 12,500 3229 224 8,465
1900.. 21,233 5 „ „ 12,500 2083 6650 15,115
1901.. 23,468 5 „ „ 12,500 3468 7500 22,615
1902.. 22,506 5 „ „ 12,500 1250 8756 31,371
1903.. 13,752 5 „ „ 12,500 750 502 31,873
1904.. 12,935 5 „ „ 12,500 750 31,558
1905.. 12,913 2J „ „ 6,250 2750 3913 35,471
The co. very wisely “passed” the interim div., but pays
for the second half-year at the old rate. Business hasn’t
very materially improved, and Bung prospects in S.A.
are very uncertain, so that the co. which carries £200,000
of 5 per cent, debentures (its own capital is £250,000) has
cause for a good deal of anxiety. The figures that follow
indicate the recent progress or otherwise :
1898. 1902. 1904. 1905.
Debentures .. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Other debts .. 42,309 36,176 49,984 35,988
Freeholds, plant,
goodwill, &c... 438,985 459,519 478,102 478,886
Stock .. .. 31,358 17,256 13,115 10,182
Sundry debtors.. 23,723 21,834 21,123 17,710
Advances .. 17,023 26,438 26,183 23,681
Net Sales .. 29,141 31,041 22,438 27,225
Rents .. .. 12,057 13,578 13,719 12,349
Expenses.. .. 6,526 7,842 8,017 7 409
Depreciation (in-
cluding Bad
Debts) .. .. 4,428 4,270 5,204 9,253
The expenses shown do not include debenture interest; and
the depreciation shown is the amount charged to profit and
loss, irrespective of the special writings-off. Most of the
assets are lumped, including a goodwill item of unknown
size. The position, as compared with that at the end of
the previous year, no doubt shows some improvement.
Gross profits (net sales) are better, though by no means
up to the old level, and expenses, which had been creep-
ing up steadily, have turned. On the other hand, with-
out any reduction of the lumped item previously referred
to, which includes freeholds and leaseholds, rents have
fallen seriously. The unusually heavy charges for depre-
ciation are probably the result, to some extent, of a
change of management; hut for this the profits would
show up better. The return on capital and reserves was
£4 11s. 9d. per cent. ; on capital alone, £5 3s. 3d. per
cent. ; but this is computed before the £2750 is written
off. Obviously, on these figures, 5 per cent, cannot be
paid with any safety.
• * • *
“C.H.” has an idea:—Australia is now almost
the only opal-producing country in the world. Most of
the gem goes away to be cut. One town in Germany has
grown from hundreds to thousands simply through
cutting and handling opal—almost all Australian opal.
Why not have that town in Australia ? Put a 100 per
cent, (or 10,000 per cent., if necessary) export duty on
uncut opal, and Australia will-must—get that work;
the German opal-cutters would come here. An entirely
new industry, which, by the way, would make a very
crood start for the Federal capital.
* * * *
The Assets Purchase and Realisation Co.
of Australasia (Melbourne)
Loss
Gross on Loss
In- Ex- Busi- on Pro- Total De-
cotne. penses. ness, perty. Loss, ficit.
Feb , 1900 £94 £152 £5B £1 £59 £26,509
£l3 339 Capital Forfeited and Written Off Deficit 13,170
Aug - ., 1900 259 306 47 47 13,217
Feb.. 1901 14 246 232 2638 2870 16,087
Aug., 1901 13 249 236 236 16,323
Feb., 1902 108 212 104 104 16,427
Profit.
Aug., 1902 182 178 4 14 10 16,437
Loss.
Feb., 1903 142 137 25 25 16,462
Profit. Profit.
Aug., 1903 198 191 7 . 7 16.455
£720 Capital Forfeited and Written Off Deficit .. 15,735
Loss. Loss.
Feb., 1904 149 172 23 23 15,758
£6 Capital Forfeited and Written Off Deficit .. 15,752
Aug., 1904 151 175 24 24 15,776
Feb., 1905 139 249 110 110 15,886
The extra expenses for the past half-year are mostly law
costs, in settlement of an old claim. The co.’s capital was
£39,467 ; this is now represented as follows : Written off
(forfeited), £14,065 ; profit and loss debit, £15,886 ; assets,
£9516. The assets consist of interest under a will £6028,
properties £1968, sundry debtors and cash £1520. To
manage these assets (two-thirds of them an interest under
a will) directors draw £l5O a year i It is humorous.
• * * *
Queensland Stock Exchange tipsters are still
saying that there isn’t any reason for the general drop in
N.Q. share values. It’s time this old gag was pensioned.
For the first quarter of 1904 the Charters Towers dividends
amounted to £102,992 ; for the same period of 1905 they
amounted to £52,957. That’s surely reason enough.
Figures include liquidation dividends too ; but they don’t
amount to much.
• • • •
Queensland gold returns for first quarter show
a continued set-back. Compared with 1904 the yield
was 133,9220 z. as against 145,0270 z., adecrease of 11,1050 z.
Two or three years back the northern State talked of a
million ounces per annum; but Mines Department’s
decision to record on a fine-gold basis soon shattered the
hope, for much of the Northern gold is very poor. Queens-
land will have to keep going in order to put up half-a-
million ounces during 1905. March figures show Charters
Towers and Gympie, the largest producers, both on the
down grade, the decreases being 54720 z. and 96Soz. respec-
tively. The Hodgkinson, the Jordan, and the Coen, all
minor fields, but capable of serviceable yields, have
dropped back to the tune of 12330 z. On the other hand,
Croydon has gone ahead 5210 z., Mt. Morgan 17010 z., and
Ravenswood 8170 z., while Clermont, Gladstone, Herber-
ton, and the Etheridge show small increases, aggregating
500 oz. Good to notice this improvement at Mt. Morgan.
Some of it can be attributed to the Dee River rush, which
good authority calculated had been responsible for well
over 6000 oz. up to end of 1904. Wardens’ returns in
Queensland are carefully compiled as a rule, but they
rarely fail to miss something, and there is good reason to
believe that the Dee River figures were under-estimated.
m * * *
Stated in some quarters that real reason North
Queensland miners will not sell wolfram at present is that
they cannot mine it to sell. Quite true that in one or two
isolated cases the ore is not being obtained with the old
regularity, and the ring cannot of course be blamed for
this, but certain it is that, in a relative sense, tungstic
minerals abound in Queensland, and are at present being
mined “ all over the State,” or nearly so. In 1903 there
were sold 197 tons for £7870. Figures were small, for the
miner received approximately only £4O per ton. But
during last year 1539 tons realised £161,635, approxi-
mately £lO5 per ton. With the metal at the latter
figure quite an industry became possible.
Stannary Hills is keeping its end up better than
any other of the N.Q. concerns into which down-south
speculators have thrown their money. To the 20-head mill,
which so far has been mostly a vexation, a 10-head is now
added (it starts this week), and when the combined
concern is at work it is expected that some-
thing like a monthly 85 or 90 tons of tin-oxide,
worth at current prices about £B2 10s. per ton, will be
turned out—while ore of the present grade lasts. _ There
is enough ore of some grade to keep the mill going for
three or four years. Costs will be close up to £4OOO a
month, leaving a probable profit of £3OOO _ per
month, which would be very good business
for a co. with a decent capital and no heavy debts. The
co. at last statement, however, owed on mortgage deben-
tures and otherwise over £BO,OOO ; and the issued capital
is £441,750. Shareholders are still far off from dividends ;
expenses are very high, estimates up that way have
a bad habit of landing co.’s in the soup, and tin-veins are
mostly as erratic as the tin-market; yet prospects are
much less hopeless than they were. F. G. Gipps, who for
some years battled to make a “do” of the Euriowie tin-
field (far-west N.S.W.), is now in charge.
* * * *
Success of an Italian working-man party at
Kalgoorlie’s latest marvel, the Hidden Secret, recalls
that it was a party of miserably poor Italian charcoal-
burners who found the Australian mainland’s most per-
manent tin-mine—the Vulcan, Irvinebank (N.Q.). They
worked it in 1889-1890, got out about £2OOO worth of tin, and
when offered £2200 for the claim right out jumped at the
money. Since then it has given 67,060 tons of ore, from
which 7055 tons of black tin have been won, worth £354,210,
of which £90,163 has been distributed in di vs. ; and it
seems good for as much more, although its bottom
workings are now among the deepest for tin-mining in the
world, outside Cornwall.
* * *
Mt. Tarrangower, Maldon (Vic.), had a record
as a producer in the “good old days,” but even in its
prime reports were not more emphatic than they are now
about the show that is delving for the lost shoot in the
heart of the mount. One report tells of “splendid
gold;” another says—“ Stone showing gold ; 54ft. of reef
exposed. No hanging-wall yet. All highly payable
stone.” It is very commendable of the management to
let the world know that a little Golconda is having birth.
But a cold public may want to see a bit more of this in-
teresting stranger from Maldon before it takes it into its
lap. Fond parents often think their offspring the best in
creation, when to other eyes they are very ordinary little
cusses. With s£ft. of highly payable stone available, it
ought soon to be possible to prove that little “ Tarry ” is
of the true metal.
* * * *
South German, once a Maldon giant, on its
reports doesn’t look like being worth much more than the
value of its plant. Solid quartz, great formations, no
gold. Yet shares are nibbled at day in and day out. Can
someone tell the secret ?
* * * *
Lord Nelson, St. Arnaud, has done things the
wrong way by the fashion in which it has sought to acquire
the Lord Nelson North ground. To purchase would have
been better, or to have let alone still wiser. If it doesn’t
get the ground, it will still have shown that it is of some
value, and that is just what the holders wanted some-
body to prove. It looks like the South German and the
South German Deep over again. What sport it will be to
outsiders to watch the little game that has now to be
played 1 Lord Nelson, if it goes into the fight, is not
likelv to let its neighbor shepherd, assuming that that
neighbor wants to hold its Naboth’s vineyard at as small
a cost to itself as possible. John A. Wallace spent a
fortune over the North, but never got decent gold in the
upper levels. When his shares were sacrificed, the
Nelson might have got hold of the tsorth leases if it
had seriously tried. Somehow', though, its people never
seemed to see any risk of the shoot of stone dipping out
of their own lease.
t * * *
Berry Extended, Creswick, re-enters the list
of payable co.’s with a div. of 6d. The bottoms and the
battery helped towards this result, as did the gold won
under the tribute arrangement with the Spring Hill and
Central Leads adjoining. It is a Ballarat way to pay
divs. on the least provocation, and there is good ground
for saying that with so big and so costly a mine as the
Extended, another month's work ought to have been
done before profits were disbursed. A patch of good
wash bored into or cut up by cross-drives may seem a
“ bank,” but the gold isn’t always there. That is the
reason why Pinder’s policy at the Duke United of having
two banks—a solid cash credit and a bit on the mine—
meant good mining.
* • * •
The Bull-coveted Cassilis, Gippsland, is living
down its reputation of being a flash-in-the-pan property,
from which divs. are always wanted, but only occasionally
got. To Coote, general manager, is given the credit of
getting things ship-shape. With sft. of high-grade stone
just cut 400 ft. below the main tunnel level, it looks as if
the lode lives down in size, despite great tightness of
country. Ore occurs in short lenses, and it needs con-
stant pegging away to build up reserves. Coote saw this,
and has been"keeping picks on dead work north and south
till he could be safe to run the mine for all it was worth.
Ore is very refractory, and costs are high, but the grade
is about 17dwt. Mine is well equipped with battery,
wasters, chlorination and cyanide plants. Most important
job in hand is the testing of the lodes parallel to the
Cassilis and New reefs, and the proving of the Cassilis
reef where cut at bottom level.
• • • •
New Hopeful is a little show adjoining New
Argus, Bendigo. Its present vogue arises from the fact
that the shoot of gold from which New Argus pays its
divs. has been cut in continuing into it the drive at
1780 ft. As the property is not a big one, gambling is
going on "over the chance of the shoot extending through
it to the Specimen Hill beyond.
• • • •
Ballarat returns for last quarter show little
change for the better. Stone milled, 38,913 tons ; yield,
12,672J0z. ; average, OJdwt. Divs. totalled £6BOO, of
which Llanberris No. 1 paid £3OOO ; Woah Hoap No. 1
£lBOO ; Victoria United, £lOOO ; North Woah Hoap, £6OO ;
and Llanberris, £4OO. Figures are practically identical
with those for March quarter of 1904.
# * * •
Monazite exists at Pinch Creek, near Bonang
(Vic.), and is found in a rough wash set in tight blue clay.
Run of dirt is 14ft. wide and a mile and a half in length.
As difficulty exists in separating the mineral from the
sand and titanic iron, there isn’t much chance of cash
being made out of the deposit.
# * * •
One by-product of the long labor troubles in
Gippsland is the Strzlecki colliery, which has started
work on a co-operative basis. It has got hold of a railway
contract to begin with.
* * * *
From Mt. William (Vic.), which had a boom
once, not so long ago:—“Our first few months were
lively. Preston and Starlight ‘ stoushed ’to an audience
of about 1200 one Saturday night; following Sunday
morning Church of England parson preached from the
same ring to a 200-house. But nearly five years have
passed, and now about 100 men remain—to scrape out a
few dwts. from the crevices in the rocks in summer, and
do a bit of ground-sluicing in winter when water can be
had ; and two pubs and a shanty do all the liquor trade.”
* * * *
“Baker’s Creek, sellers lOd.” What is the
matter? The mine is certainly worth much more than
that. The developments at 1500 ft. haven’t been made
the most of, and there is no apparent reason why
1600 ft. should be a blank. The office is, unfortu-
nately, as far away as Adelaide, and there seems to be a
great lock of sympathy between the directors and the big
body of Armidale and Hillgrove shareholders, who still
have much faith in the mine that has paid £275,000 in
divs. It was significant that, a while ago, when shares
had their first bad slump, practically every local miner
who could possibly manage it bought shares, if he didn’t
hold some already.
* * * *
Broken Hill is now employing more men at
mines and local works than it did during even the
£l7-a-ton lead boom of 1889-1900. Latter year there
were 7010 on the sheets ; now, 7259, an increase of just
50 per cent, on the number in 1902. Besides the 7259
there are 2200 at the smelting works, etc., in Australia,
not to mention the 5000 or 6000 at the foreign works,
Australia not having reached the stage when it gets all
the dirt out of all its own ore.
* * * »
A special-train load of sharebrokers has been
at the Broken Hill mines, as guests of Anglo-Austra-
lian Lionel Robinson. Result has been a move in some
Barrier stocks, notably Junction North and Block 14,
which probably deserved the rise. Junction North is in
difficulties now with the Australian Metal Co., which
supplied the magnetic plant; co. wants to be paid £2OOO
odd, and the co. wants to see the plant successful first.
Local confidence in the plant is still pronounced-
just as pronounced as is its want of confidence in the con-
trol of the co. Ultimate success of the machinery is still,
however, uncertain. Block 14 has made the very needful
financial arrangements. Mine is now unwatered to 500 ft. ;
but it will take a lot of money to equip it. British has
been doing excellent work, and has a very solid credit
balance—running, it is understood, to over £60,000.
* * * *
Apropos the stupid rush (possibly part of a
market trick) to condemn the new magnetic metal-saving
plant at Junction North, and the consequent knock-back
of shares from 12s. 6d. to 6s. inside a month. The
Sulphide Corporation has been successfully operating a
magnetic plant for about three years. The adjustment
of that plant covered more than nine months. Eighteen
months ago it was decided to duplicate the plant, and an
order was sent—to protected Germany, of course. It
arrived, practically a counterpart of the section already
working, late in December ; and yet, about 10 weeks
afterwards, the engineer who came out with this duplicate
was still at work upon it, adjusting the fine parts.
* * * *
Latest Wyalong (N.S.W.) crushings—Golden
Fleece, 17 tons for 9oz. gold per ton ; Union, 40 tons for
80oz. gold. Last monthly escort took away 4500 z. ; but
very little importance is attached to escort returns, as
the bulk of the best ore is sent to outside works for treat-
ment, and parcels of gold go by private escort. J. Goggin
has gone back to the Barrier mine as manager.
• • * *
Great Boulder Prop., Kalgoorlie, which has
been looking rather sick at its lowest, or 1900 ft. level, has
had a stroke of luck. In cutting a chamber at 1930 ft.
for an ore bin, a lode has been met 25ft. west of shaft,
10ft. wide, worth lldwt. At 1900 ft. lode was split and
poor, panning-out as follows : At 22ft. west, Ift., 24dwt. ;
at 26ft., Ift., 9dwt. ; at 33ft., 2ft. 6in., sdwt.; at 70ft.,
lft., 20dwt. Although this discovery was made middle of
Sept., management has been so slow that, during the inter-
vening six months, little has been done to test the ground.
Something seems to be radically wrong when it takes six
months to confirm results of boreholes which knock
market endways. Every shilling rise or fall in Boulders
means a loss or gain of' £87,500 to somebody, and, such
being the case, management should be particularly care-
ful and enterprising.
Chaffers’, Kalgoorlie, reconstruction was unsatis-
factory. Thousands of shares held by Australians have
been forfeited because insufficient time was allowed to
join reconstruction scheme. Holders, who interviewed
their brokers, were told that it would cost them £2 10s.
to get their names on register, in addition to cost of cable.
Under circumstances shares were forfeited wholesale.
Associated, Kalgoorlie, seems to have been
all along driving above continuation of rich Oroya-Brown
Hill shoot. A bore put down below No. 10 level has cut
ore lift, wide worth 44dwt. If developments should con-
firm this, prospects of co., which have hitherto been far
from rosy, will be quite altered.
Brown Hill Extended, Kalgoorlie, has put
through a series of trial crushings of ore won during
developments. Including tailings, results pan out as
follows :—126 tons, 12Mwt. ; 112 tons, lOdwt. ; 224 tons,
16dwt. As things go* now', result is quite equal to that
from most W.A. mines, but public is not allowed to know
if the tests are a fair sample of lodes, or, in fact, anything
about the show'. It seems ridiculous to publish results of
test crushings w'ithout specifying where ore comes from.
* * * «
Victory United, Cuddingwara (W.A.j, still
looks a very lame duck. According to temporary
manager Lindley, reef to north of shaft is no good,
while to south it is split up into mere stringers of Cin. to
lOjn. wide. Ladders are broken and unsafe, winding-
engine broken down, and everything in a state of chaos.'
If Lindley’s report is correct, mine useless to
the co., and concern should be wound up.
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, has treated a further
44 tons for 7980 z. gold and 3808 oz. silver. (Total since
October, 342 tons for 62650 z. gold, and 31,3100 z. silver,
worth £28,200.) Fosson, who held 110 shares, has sold
out his holding for £5OOO, practically £45 10s. a-piece,
and goes back to Italy with £SOOO, including his divs.
Buyers of Fosson’s shares are chiefly his mates, Mayman
and Gianini, but Fraser, M.H.R., figures as a purchaser,
though it may be on somebody else’s account. The bulk
of the richest ore down to 150 ft. has now been rooted out,
but until more development is done at 200 ft. it is impos-
sible to say how deep the ore shoot extends. Williamstown
town site is situated right on the gold belt, the boundary
being within 70 yards of main shaft. Had the boundary
been 70 yards further east there would have been no
Hidden Secret mine. Only two years ago residents of
Williamstown clamored for a school site just north of
Hidden Secret shaft, and, when owners protested, they
were told they were only wasting their time prospecting in
such an unlikely place. One or two shows in vicinity,
notably Fair Play, which is treating 2oz. ore, are doing
well, but none on direct run of Secret lode.
* * * «
Sulphides need to be efficiently concentrated to
pay, and the Card Concentrator, with its auxiliary
attachment, is the nearest thing to perfection. Air com-
pressing is usually costly, but with Rand Compressors is a
cinch. See bottom of back cover. N. Guthridge, Ltd.
Sydney and Melbourne.*
* * * *
The McDermott Sizer now on the market fa
rapidly coming into favor with mining men. Useful as
this machine is, there is no intention of claiming that by
the use of it, it becomes possible to save by concentration
all of the mineral values in ore. Some loss is bound to
occur, no matter what mechanical methods are employed,
but what is claimed is that by the use of the Sizer, the
pulp can be prepared in a manner more suitable and in
such a way as to materially increase the efficiency of the
concentrating plant. Nor must it be conjectured that
the McDermott Sizer is only for use in conjunction with
Wilfley Tables; although it acts admirably with those
machines, it is of such general application as to enable it
to be used with equal advantage with whatever type of
dressing machine happens to be employed. Those wishing
for more information in regard to this useful machine can
obtain catalogues and full particulars from the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, of South Melbourne, who
are the Agents and Sole Manufacturers of the machine.*
The Bankers’ Magazine (London) September,
1904 :—“The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited, was founded thirty-one years ago, with head
quarters in the capital of Victoria, and the amount of its
business and of its accumulated funds far exceed those of
any life office established in England since the passing of
the Life Assurance Companies Act of 1870. The rapidity
in the development of this Australian society attests the
energy and organising powers of its administrators.*
• • • •
The new electric light installation of the Mel-
bourne Exhibition Cycle Track, formed a great attraction
of the recent “Austral” meeting. The main feature of
the 83'stem is the “Ganz” brilliant arc lamp, forty of
which are distributed round the track, suspended on iron
brackets. The light is absolutely steady, _ soft and
diffused, doing away entirely with the injurious glare
common with other lamps and overcoming the objection-
able shadows in and under the globe. Special globes are
used which, while diffusing the light, do not cut off an
undue quantity and the effect is a light known
scientifically to be the best for all illuminating purposes.
The candle power is more than four times that furnished
by other lamps at the same current consumption. Electric
lighting by the “ Ganz ” arc lamp is cheaper than any
other form of illuminant, both in first cost, in fixing and
in maintenance. The contractors for this installation
were the Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd., corner
Hannah and Kavanagh streets, South Melbourne, Sole
Agents for Ganz and Co., Budapest, Hungary, who will
gladly furnish estimates and expert advice upon similar
or any electrical schemes.*
• * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discription of cast or wrought iron work.*
« • « •
Oil Engines.—lnformation has just reached
us that the Government Award (Gold Medal) in this class,
at the present Capetown Exhibition, has been' awarded to
the “ Hornsby ” Oil Engine. The success of this engine is
perhaps the most remarkable in engineering history.
There is no engineering speciality which can claim, as
the “ Hornsby ” oil engine does, to have obtained every
highest award in the world—viz., England, America,
Australian, France and Russia, &c.—and last year it
secured the British Government award of £lOOO. It is
made in various types of fixed, portable, traction and
marine, and in the latter it is made in suitable sizes for
small pleasure craft, and in gradations of h.p. up to 500
b.h.p., as supplied to the British Navy. R. Hornsby and
Sons, Ltd., Sydney and Melbourne.*
* * * *
The Babcock Boiler seems to be favored by
mining engineers, over 50 mines in Australia using these
boilers. Mount Morgan has 20, Waihi Gold Mining Co.
24, Mount Lyell 12, Tasmanian Gold Mining Company 7,
and at Broken Hill there are 30 distributed amongst the
mines, water works, and electric supply, while in
Western Australia they are looked upon as a necessity,
there being now 68 in the principal mines and Kalgoorlie
Water Supply. It will be noted that coal is expensive at
Broken Hill, and wood fuel is expensive at W.A. These
figures speak for themselves. Evidently the ease of
transportation, the economy in fuel and maintenance and
the adaptability to any class of fuel, that are such con-
spicuous points in the Babcock Boiler, are much
appreciated in Australian mines. * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.* 0 0 m
Assay Balance, Ainsworth’s No. 1 special, 5 inch
beam, agate knife edges and bearings etc., sensibility
l/200th = 0.005 milligramme = l/13000th grain. Price £5O.
Large stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. H. B. SILBERBERG and Co., 443
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
• * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
Bellevue, Mt. Sir Samuel (W.A.), is not panning
out anything like predicted. When new 40-head mill
was ordered shareholders were told that divs. would come
immediately it got to work. Now, however, 4000 tons-of
ore only produced about £5OOO of gold, and there is prac-
tically no profit. There are over 100,000 tons of tailings,
estimated to contain sdwt. gold and 2 per cent, copper,
accumulated on mine, but difficulty is how to treat them
and make it pay. A chlorination plant was to do the trick,
but, though three months have elapsed since plant was
announced to start, nothing has been heard of it. Share-
holders were told that copper would pay cost of treat-
ment, and gold would be all profit. 8., M. and Co. evi-
dently don’t believe this, or shares, with a prospective
profit of 55., would not be selling at 6s. to 7s.
(Continued on page 32.)


“Orieot to AfaasCirc” Tailoring.
SAC SUITS
63/-
NEW AUTUMN and WINTER PATTERNS,
now opened, will be forwarded with Self -
Measurement Forms upon Application.
1 I II
DAVID JONES & CO
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney.
m
i
m
SE
EXQUISITE MODELS, j* PERFECT FIT.
GUARANTEED WEAR. *
THE NEW
P.
...CORSETS
avoid inferior imitations.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside,
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.
Society
CANADIAN
CLUB
WHISKY.
Sydney Mayor Allen Taylor intends treat-
ing 1000 Sydney poor to dinner on Easter Sunday,
but those two Christian gentlemen, Canon Boyce
and Mr. Hugh Dixson, representing the British
Empire League, waited on him recently with the
request that the feed be postponed till Empire
Day, May 24. Does Canon Boyce also then
reckon Empire Day of more importance than
Resurrection Day ?
* * * *
The moral of the Slattery case : Put your
estates in the care of a responsible trustee co.
• * * *
It was, perhaps, not altogether uninten-
tional that the wealthy unemployed in England
were styled the “nobillety.”
* * * •
Concerning the Melbourne Literature
Society, by one of its members :
The society is headed by Professor Tucker, of the Mel-
bourne University, and incidentally suffers from the
patronage of Chief Justice John Madden. (What does a
L.S. want with a patron ?) Mr. Henry Gyles Turner,
“ Rolf Boldrewood,” and Mr. E. Wilson Dodds are mem-
bers. It has nice, laudable objects, but doesn’t promote
them worth a cent. The trouble is too much mutual
admiration. F’rinstance, Mr. E. Wilson Dodds read a
paper on “ English Ballads of Battle ” (not Bottle) at a
recent meeting, and finished up by reciting “ Temeraire ”
in sixteen canary-quavers and a dress suit. Mr. Henry
Gyles Turner—our “ worthy president ” of last year—then
proceeded to butter E.W.D. in an outrageous fashion.
Mr. A. W. Brazier, M.A., followed in much the same
fashion ; and the only breeze came from a lady member,
who declared that war was rot, and poems’ of Blood
blasphemy. Now at some future meeting Mr. Henry
Gyles Turner will read a paper on the “ Vedic Hymns,”
or thereabouts, and Mr. E. Wilson Dodds will pass the
butter. At yet another meeting Mr. A. W. Brazier, M.A.,
will read a paper, and Mr. H. G. Turner will wield the
churn. Messrs. Turner and Amos Brazier and Wilson
Dodds are all good chaps in their way [I hope it is not
sedition to speak of Mr. Henry Gyles T. as a “ chap ”];
but, if you please, a literary society should not be abutter
factory. If we had less august patronage, and less dress
suit, and less M.A., and more plain thinking and more
plain speaking, our society would cut more ice.
THE DEADLY GERM.
MISS YOUNG : “Do you think one is liable to
catch anything from kissing! ”
MRS. NEWBRIDE: “ M’yes. I caught a husband .”
Adelaide Advertiser of l/4/’O5 contained
this advt. :
TAT ANTED, clerk for warehouse; salary, £l3O per
V annum ; references. Apply “ Looflirpa,” this
office.
Result—a tremendous budget of applications.
Close ifispeetion of “address” revealed the stupid
joke. “Looflirpa,” read backwards, is “April-
fool.” If the advt. was a hoax, and that seems
pretty certain, the “joker” ought to get six
months’ gaol, if he’s detected.
The Adelaide Hospital Board has sensibly
decided that its nurses shall be instructed in
scientific cookery. Cookery should be made a com-
pulsory part of every nurse’s curriculum. Some
nurses are sent out who cannot even make beef-tea
and barley-water, much less cook a bit of fish, a
basin of pap, or any of the dishes needful to ailing or
convalescent people. And nursing, to be success-
ful, depends more on good cooking than good
dosing.
* * ie *
A bit of “Dooley,” which is real truth •
If Uncle Sam begins to lick wife-beaters, before he’s
been at it long he won’t have anny time f’r annvthingbut
th’ whipping-post. He’ll be in his shirt sleeves all day
long, s ashing away at counterfeiters, illicit distillers,
postal thieves an’ dimmycrats. No, Hinnissy, there ain’t
a hair’s diff’rence between a blackguard who beats his
wife an’ a Governmint that beats his childer. Ye can’t
cure corp’ral punishment be makin’ the Governmint th’
biggest kind of corp’ral punisher. Ye can’t inflict corp’ral
punishment onless ye’re stronger thin th’ fellow ye
punish, an’ if ye ar-re stronger, ye ought to be ashamed
iv ye’self !
“ Spare th’ rod an’ spile th’ child,” said Mr. Hennessv.
“ Yes,” said Mr. Dooley, “ but don’t spare the rod, an’
ye spile th’ rod, th’ child, an’ th’ child’s father.”
*'**■»
There’s always one woman waiting round
the corner to give another woman away. Bulle-
tin has received this, signed in a female hand :
“Woman’s Letter” correspondent of 30th March
must surely be a masculine person. The number of
feminines afflicted with bow-legs, knock-knees, and
pigeon-toes explains the vogue of skirts. One of
Melbourne’s smart dressers appeared at a physical
culture class in knickers and low-heeled shoes. A
champion fat hog could have escaped easily between
her knees and ankles. This lady has always advo-
cated very long skirts as being “most graceful and
modest.” The average feminine simply can’t wear
“knickerbockers resembling a boy’s.” Horses would
bolt at the resulting weird sights, and dogs howl their
hearts out at the dreadful spectacle.
* * * *
N.S.W. newspaper advertisements :
PUBLIC SERVICE BOARD.
Teachers (male) being required for the smallest
cou'.itry schools, the Public Service Board invites
applications. Salary, £72 per annum.
Temporary manager of the Stud Pig Farm wanted.
Salary, £lOO per annum.
The official estimate of pig and child.
* • » •
Dengue fever is now called in Brisbane
plain “dog.”
* * * *
Advt. in Star, Christchurch (M.L.) :
"VyANTED, Situation as Gentleman-Help to middle-
aged lady of means ; cook, washing and music.
“ Harpsichord,” Star Office.
« * » *
There is some talk of a Government in-
quiry into the management of Melbourne Benevo-
lent Asylum. The pre-
paration of meals at the
asylum is alleged to be
so shockingly unbenevo-
lent that sometimes a
mouse gets boiled along
with a cabbage, and the
presence of snails among
the vegetables is said to
be common; the beef
served to sick boarders
in the hospital wards is
occasionally “high,” and
if perchance the medical
officers prescribes stimu-
lants for some of the
poor old souls, the pre-
scription is not put up.
Needy cases are turned
away from the asylum
when there is room to
spare for them. One
part of the building,
where a kind-hearted
nurse has charge, is
known as “ Happy Val-
ley,” to distinguish it
from other parts where
unhappiness prevails.
All these things were
stated at a recent meet-
ing of the Political Labor
Council, and they didn’t
cause any astonishment. Melbourne Benevolent
Asylum has been ill-spoken of many a time, but thisis
the first time the truthfulness of the allegations has
seemed likely to be tested. It is only fair to say
that the management denies all the allegation,
especially the possibility of vermin delicacies
being served with the vegetables.
• ■* * *
There is a suggestion to have the next
international Trades Union Congress in Aus-
tralia.
* * • *
A woman doctor, who learned her business
in Adelaide, but is now dispensing pills at Delhi,
India, writes to her S. Australian friends about
some effects of the Jappo-Bear war. Every time
the Monkey scores, the native anti-British propa-
gandist bangs his drum with vigor, and tells the
crowd that that's what the Asiatic can do.
Already, she says, there is a strong undercurrent
running towards Hindu self-government—any-
way, against British bureaucracy. Most of the
natives don’t know yet precisely what they want;
they are only beginning to know that they don’t
want the British boss.
DRESS ITEM.
HE: “ Out of sorts'!" SHE: “No; why?”
HE : “ You look ‘ ruffled .’”
“ One is always in Sydney when they are
tearing up the pavements,” says Mr. Justice
Barton, giving a humorist twist to the statement
of fact. True, and the worst of it is that no
attempt is made to replace the flags in their
original condition. Private companies have been
permitted to make Sydney’s sidewalks the most
disgraceful on this continent by their cheap and
inefficient methods of relaying pavements torn up
for their purposes.
* * * *
Isn’t it a breach of neutrality for the Aus-
tralian Government to allow the Japanese to re-
cruit cavalry horses in the Commonwealth ?
* ♦ • *
The governors of S.A. Art Gallery, Mu-
seum, and Library have now definitely decided
that the Morgan Thomas bequest (about £65,000)
cannot, by the wording of the will, be used to
benefit the country institutes; also, that it shall
not be spent on buildings. Half of the whole sum
is to be devoted to the Public Library, which
ought to be altered out of all knowledge, as £30,000
would doubtless buy the present collection of 50,000
books twice over.
* * * *
A Kangaroo Island (S.A.) “ Zion convert ”
of last year, writing from Zion City (Adelaide
dailies of April sth):
Out of our shipment seven families mean to leave.
Almost every day we hear of fresh ones who intend to
clear out. We have written to Islanders to warn them
not to come here —if there are any determined to come,
you just put in your word and tell them anything I have
told you .... Mr. Dowie has called for contracts for
building a wharf near his wife’s summer residence. He
recently bought more land there, and gave it to his son
Gladstone. Now he will build a wharf there to enhance
the value. They say 500,000 dollars was spent there in
improvements last year—and our would-be leader of
God’s Israel bangs and cuts away at Zion people who have
property outside Zion City !
Youngsters at Waircyapa, M.L., have
introduced a new game called “Ellis.” Two
scrub-cutters go into the ti-tree, a third shoots one
of them, and runs ; then the whole school hunts
the criminal down, and hangs him on the hori-
zontal bar in the playground. One “Ellis” was
so successful in eluding pursuit that he couldn’t
find his way back, and was ultimately discovered
by a search party.
The Vic. police and railway
authorities seem to have at last got
on the track of an organisation
that has for long been plundering
the public. Some of the gang
would hide in goods-trucks run-
ning straight from Spencer-st.
to stations 100 miles or so out.
On the run, they would heave
overboard whatever they
could conveniently lift, and
mates at arranged points
on the line would annex
the spoil. When the
N.E. goods reiehel
Seymour, the other
day, one truck was
noticed to have a
large slit in its tar-
paulin through
which the thieves
had escaped—and its
cargo had been thor-
oughly overhauled by
means of lanterns
and pinch-bars. Ap-
parently the re-
ceivers had mistaken
the “dumping-
point,” for, near
Wallan, next morn-
ing, were found
caddies of tobacco,
boxes of drapery,
boots, &c. Simul-
taneously with this
‘‘ give-away, ’ ’ detec-
tives raided the
house of a train-
examiner, and dis-
covered enough miss-
ing property to till a
v a n—jewellery, jam,
clothing, guns, carpets,
silver-ware, hams, brushes,
champagne, whisky, &c. A
day or two later, a second-hand
dealer’s place was raided, with
similar results, and the whole gang
was exposed.
THE TWILIGHT’S PENALTY.
[Fob Tub Bulletin. 1
Creeping outward from the twilight
Come the ghosts of days that died,
Dragging little blackened coffins
With the skeletons inside
Of the Things we left unfinished,
Starved and stricken Things unfinished—
In procession undiminished
Come the ghosts of days that died.
M.ii. J- Barr.
* * * *
A recent case from Lismore (N.S.W.),
where an auctioneer, holding a sale of furniture
in a private house on a Wednesday afternoon, was
prosecuted as a “ shopkeeper open after hours ” is
one of those instances wherein bad administration
of the law serves to throw' ridicule on democratic
legislation. The Early Closing Act w’as passed
primarily to protect overworked employees, and
the department administering the Act can find
much better scope for its energies than plunging
into weary litigation to argue whether an auction
sale is a shop or not.
« * • •
The soul-saving mission of Torrey and
Alexander, and such like revivalists, has been
neatly ticketed as “ Wild Cat Christianity.”
“Take Back Your Gold and Make me
Your Wife” is the name of a new sentimental
ballad. The lady must have been a thrifty
woman to have kept the gold.
THE CRISIS.
MR. FATTMAN : “See here, now; I have lost the
key of the front door. One of us will have
to climb through the window.”
At Ohinemutu, t’other day, Major Mair,
who had been in charge of a Maori feast patron-
ised by Governor Plunket, was fined £5 by the
Maori Council for bringing a bottle of champagne
for his lordly guest into the Maori whare. An
indictment laid against Gov. Plunket himself,
charging him with consuming “waipiro” on the
premises, was only withdrawn after the interchange
of several perturbed telegrams vtith the Maoriland
Cabinet.
MEMENTO MORI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What need hath sage Philosopher, in this advanced age,
To set an eyeless graveyard skull amid his tomes of lore,
That lie may ever keep in mind his mortal heritage?
Since oft his spouse will leave her store-teeth on the
floor 1
HUGH M'CRAR.
A REFLECTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No hint I gave for you to guess at my disloyalty
In wishing you that maiden who was Queen of Dreams to
me.
I kissed you, sweet, to forfeit thus my right to hold her
true,
And prove myself, by thought and kiss, unworthy her
and you.
KETTLEDRUM.


BOOKKEEPING
Taught by Post. We
have the HIGHEST
SUCCESSES in Accoun-
tants’ Examinations.
Intending Candidates thoroughly prepared in all
subjects. “ Home Study ” post free.
Stott & Koare’s Business College
MOORE STREET, next Citizens’ Life Building-.
JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
* Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128-130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KING STREET,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
Why should the witness in the law courts
1) : compelled to stand, sometimes hour after hour,
i.i a three-cornered box? Originally, it was no
doubt part of the same scheme which put horse-
hair on the Judge’s head, the idea being to make
the public believe that it was in the presence of
s unetliing more than ordinary man. But this is
the day of popular education, and the public
knows the courts for just what they are—places
where the public does part of its business.
Nowhere else, when a man goes to do
business, is he compelled to stand hour after
hour. Even when a deputation of unemployed
goes to ask Carruthers the whereabouts of all the
prosperity that was promised, Joseph tells the
men to bring their chairs round, and sit down and
gat to business. And when a Judge is appointed
a Commissioner, nine times out of 10 he sees that
the witness is provided with a scat; for he has
found out by experience that he can get more
solid information out of the average man when he
has settled and composed himself in a chair, than
when he is giving half his mind to the question in
hand and the other half to his favorite bunion.
IN TOPHET.—THE BUTTERFLIES DO A
LITTLE MAN-COLLECTING.
Nine Sydney hotel-keepers were up at the
Water Police Court lately for selling adulterated
brandy, whisky, and rum. The highest fine im-
posed was £2; in most cases it was only £l.
frame day, in another Sydney court, a man
was up for a very clumsy attempt to pass off an
adulterated coin in return for a meal. It was the
only bogus coin he had (the publicans mostly had
jug-fulls of their dishonest stuff), yet the Judge
said he was letting him off very lightly with a
year’s hard labor. The moral is that when you
want to do a swindle always put on the apron of
trade, do it behind a signboard, and call yourself
“one of the mercantile community.”
* * # »
A wealthy charitable asylum is that at
Randwick (Sydney), founded for the housing of
orphan and neglected children, but now rendered
almost obsolete by the boarding-out system. The
asylum has £lOO,OOO to its credit.
* * V *
The best satire on bad amatory poetry is
the gush of a doggy woman. All the potted terms
of endearment which the poetaster lavishes on his
Laura she bestows on her cold-nosed quadruped.
GETTING HIS MONEY’S WORTH.
PERSPIRING PASSENGER (suffering from the temperature, which is somewhere about 120deg.):
“ Whew! Fearful long trip, isn’t it?”
ELDERLY SCOT : “ Ay, mon, an’ sac it should be for twa pun ten.”
The Argus, angry with Yic. Executive
for not hanging one Hope, a semi-imbecile con-
victed of criminal assault :
It is scarcely possible that the Attorney General puts
forward the fact that the offence is not capital in Great
Britain as an excuse. The Cabinet has to carry out the
law of Victoria.
Bulletin trusts that the Argus will not forget to
argue on these lines next time we have a Six
Hatters difficulty or a Petriana myth. The
Executive, however, did make a most vicious
blunder in Hope’s case, saving him from the rope
because of his mental weakness, to hand him over
to the cat. The wretch, who is not held fully respon-
sible for his actions, is to have two floggings and
some solitary confinement in the hope, no doubt,
that this course of treatment will brace up his
intellect and restore his moral tone.
* * * *
Lord Ennismore, of the British nobility,
who lost a tooth-brush while deer-stalking in the
rough country of
Wairarapa, M.L.,
complained to Maori-
land Tourist Depart-
ment, as he shook
the plebeian dust of
M.L. off his spats,
that the ordinary
conveniences of civi-
lisation were absent
in the country where
Ellis shot Collinson.
His coroneted nibs
failed to bag one
“head” during his
visit—a one-horned
goat, carried 19 miles,
and subsequently
dropped over a pre-
cipice by a disgusted
guide, alone excep-
ted. Also, he was
obliged to snore in a
common whare with
the said guide, and
the hills were ridicu-
lously high. At
’Ome, it appears,
deer feed out of the hand, and the daring stalker
goes to his kill mostly on a motor car, and is
never out of reach of an eau-de-cologne bath and
a billiard table.
• * • •
“ Revert ” writes :
Senator F. Dumont Smith (U.S.A.) has prepared a bill
limiting term of marriage to 10 years. This is the first
step towards the salvation of millions, born and unborn.
About eight years ago I had oome to the conclusion that
some such measure must be made law, and have strenu-
ously upheld the view against all opposition. George
Meredith lately voiced similar views. Marriage should be
permanent unless appealed against by either of the parties
during (say) four weeks allowed for the purpose, at any
recurring fifth anniversary of the ceremony ; if necessary,
legal separation to be granted until the time for
appeal arrives. To bring the measure within reach
of the poor, it should be backed up by State
homes for children, and to encourage an increased birth-
rate (which is neces ary for the country —not the
ind.vidual) these homes should take children when the
parents are e.ther unable or unwilling to provide for
them. Either partner having means should provide (.f
only temporarily) on dissolution taking place for the
other having no means. No law of God can be shown
commanding permanent monogamy ; and, even if the
Bible distinctly ordered so, man must use the reason he
has been given in order to right wrongs. Morality needs
a fixed term of union, but there must be an honorable
means of escape from the hell of mis-mating. We need
less strict moral law s more strictly observed.
“Burglar Bill”: Re the unconquerable
attraction high cliffs and deep water have for
lunatics (B. 30/3/’QS). All the “lifers” in Goul-
burn gaol were housed on the top tier of cells, a
small handrail running along the landing being
the only thing to prevent them taking a 3uft. leap
to the asphalt floor of the corridor. One man,
serving a life-sentence for an abominable offence,
told me that he shut his eyes when walking along
the landing, as he always wanted to jump over.
“ War E.” : The unfortunate country
policeman has to act as truant-officer, inspector
of weights and measures, of slaughtering-houses
and dairies, compiler of Federal and State rolls
and of statistics, dispenser of electoral-rights, and
doles to persons receiving aid from the State,
scrutiniser of old-age pensioners, supervisor of
the Dog Act and travelling stock, bill-poster of
Govt, notices, &c., <fcc. Yet it is now seriously
proposed that he shall act as rabbit inspector and
administer the Kabbit Act! And when some
pannikin-squatter or crawling cocky loses a flukey
ewe or a bag of chick-feed, the Inspector-General
of Police is bombarded with complaints that Con-
stable Double-X “ain’t a-doin’ of his dooty.”
* * * *
The Stinking Fish crowd is coming in for
some kicks. Latest is from general-manager
asst si•*
the London papers that if Maoriland and Aus-
tralia weren't attracting population it was largely
because Maorilanders and Australians took so
much trouble to scatter lies about their country.
One paper, astonished to hear a banker mention
anything except ‘ socialistic legis a ion, J*
him what he had to say about the aw a (
shops shut at 6. England, i exp ai e , < s
been flooded with letters denouncing this and
other things ” “ Yes,” Mr. Coates answered, I
have seen plenty of them.
and if those people who talk about longing to escape
from “ tyrant-ridden ” Maoriland to “ a free country like
England” got here, they would find they had a great deal
more to put up with in other respects ; the British rates
and taxes alone would make them stare in very unpleasant
astonishment if they took a house in the country and had
to pay them.
And seem" that the English local rates run up to
as high as 11s. Gel. m the £, "’ll ' l ‘Coates
or Maorilander squeals at Is. " •>
doesn't seem to have over-stated tue case.
* * *
Notice on a Yic. tennis clllb S court :
*„ v reasonable swearing allowed.
Any reasoname
But the club positively declines to define what is
“ reasonable.’
A syndicate of enterprising Frenchmen is
negotiating for the lease of the new island block
which the improvements of the London County
Council have created in the Strand. London.
Their idea is, ostensibly, to signalise the entente
cordiale by making a “ Paris in London ” —an
area covered with buildings after the manner of
the great city and occupied by business places and
amusements peculiar to it. But the pious London
C. C. is reported to be scared, lest the amusements
should be too peculiar to Paris ; and, according to
latest accounts, the promoters were undertaking
that Paris in London should contain nothing that
would bring a blush to the cheek of a Piccadilly
clubman, and no grisette should be employed
without a guarantee of character' from a clergy-
man, a J.P., or other more or less reputable person.
If that undertaking is adhered to, Paris in London
will probably be a failure, and the Londoner will
continue to take his old unexpurgated Paris by
one of Cook’s cheap trips.
* * * *
“ P.” : N.S.W. Public School teachers
are supposed to encourage meteorological study
by the pupils, and the “beneficent rainfall” is a
frequent subject of expatiation. In a few schools,
however, a wet day lowers the quarterly average
sufficiently to bring thesehool below the minimum
attendance required fora certain salary ; so while
an assistant is enlarging upon the glorious results
that will follow the rain, the headmaster prowls
round the half-empty class-rooms mentally cursing
the weather-clerk and all his works. The matte r
is so serious that action was taken by the teachers,
with the result that a particularly wet day’s
attendance was officially ordered not to be
counted. But why not make a fixed rule ? Seems
absurd that a single wet day should cut a man’s
salary down for a whole quarter.
* * * *
“ Gip ” : Out after sheep, recently, called,
at the hut of a selector who was supposed to
Eossess some information I wanted. Found the
ut closed, but uncanny sounds issued from
within. In answer to knocks, a sad-eyed little
woman came to the door, closing it carefully after
her. The boss was away ; would we wait out-
side ? Dinner-time came ; no boss ; so the woman
nervously asked us inside. In the room we
entered was a well-grown boy, roped in a chair,
grimacing and making horrible sounds. He was
dumb and mad. Peeping from the other room
were two smaller children, with the thick
features, hanging underlip, and vacant eyes of
idiots; and against the slab walls —trying to leap
up it, like a baged rat—was yet another demented
boy. The parents, I afterwards learnt, were first-
cousins.
* * * *
“An imbecile may be converted into a
useful citizen ; but for idiots, past the betterment
of the surgeon’s knife, there is no hope—they
should be drowned. We should then have more
time and energy to spend on children in whom
there are the possibilities of success.” — Dr. Brown,
New York Board of Health.
* * * *
“Sardonyx” : Be Professor Metchniteoff’s
(23/3’05) idea of marrying big men and women to
each other, so as to produce a larger race.
Frederick the Great tried the experiment with
his Guards, men of immense size. But there is
no record of a race of giants being perpetuated.
EXPERIENCE TEACHES.
“I like the girl; hut she might throw her money
up in my face after we're married.”
“ Well, if she hadn’t that to throw up at you
she’d find something else.”
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
p a y a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
under e Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 y ydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES,
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
now long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of all chemists. PARIS MEDICINE CO., Temple
Chambers, London, E.C. England.*
The last for purchasing shilling tickets in
the Melbourne Eight-Hours Charity Art Union are now
announced. The drawing will take place on May 1. Ap-
plications which reach the representative, Mr. Theo. W.
Heide, 312 Flinders-street, Melbourne, before that date,
wiu ( jedu b'attended to. Each ticket gives the individual
purchaser a chance to win any of the 140 prizes, the first
0 f which is £lOOO, or 12 months’ trip round the world
a,ld * n cash.
THE PRINCELING AND THE BOIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was grief and lamentation in the stummick of the
nation
When the cable column told us that His Royal Nibs was
il!;
When the wires insinuated that M.D.’s had operated,
Strong men tottered, women fainted, and our hearts grew
damp and chill!
In an agony we weltered when the awful news had filtered
Through the oceans and the deserts from the Princeling s
bed of pain ;
But to-day we cut glad capers, for we learn from sundry
papers
That the stalwart Prince is better, and is smiling once
again 1
Yea, we prance in jubilation—we’re a joyous, jigging
nation—
We are singing grateful anthems, we’ve abandoned all our
toil.
We are shouting and hooraying—there are scores of trum-
pets braying—
For our Princeling has recovered from a fierce and
deadly Boil 1
When the heralds caught the tidings and through Britain’s
shires and ridings
Went a thrill that men feel only when some awful danger’s
past;
Aye, they set St. Paul’s a-ringing—there was cheering,
there was singing—
II >pe returned unto the Hodges who had erstwhile stood
aghast 1
In Pall Mall and Piccadilly dukes and viscounts shouted
shrilly—
There were bonfires lit at Clapham, there was joy at
l’eckham Rye ;
Aye, they jerked the cable frantic—underneath the moist
Atlantic—
When the Prince was seen in public with a nurse-girl
standing by I
Guns were firing in the Channel—steam escaped from
every scrannel—
Eactory-whistles bade the workers cease to sweat and
cease to moil;
Even London’s starving legions piped “ Gor’-Save ” in
East End regions—■
They forgot their grief and hunger when the Princeling
beat the Boil 1
G. H.
LOST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(The dearest things are the dear departed.)
The dearest girl of all the girls
I’ve loved in twenty years and two,
With locks Egyptian, gilded curls,
Or hair of any other hue,
Was not the one I loved for long,
Nor she I loved at greatest cost —
The sweetest far of all the throng
Was that dear maid I wooed and lost 1
The finest fish I’ve taken slipt
Agilely from my landing net;
The greatest drink I ever sipt
Was that a clumsy fool upset;
The noblest thought that ever came
In summer fine or winter frost,
To give a lustre to my name,
Was that divine idea I lost!
The grandest story that I wrote,
Illum’ed w'ith many a subtle phrase,
The critics yet unborn to quote
In fine, appreciative days,
Was that artistic tale and wise— .
Devised at what a psychic cost !
Which some cursed editor implies
He has unfortunately lost.
EDYSON.


o° OD
'CHARLES
A
HEIDSEKK’S
«HAMP»<SHE/
The Charm of Beauty. — “ V alaze” is not a
make-up, but a food which builds up the tissues and
nourishes the skin; removes freckles, wrinkles, sun-
burn, sallowness, &c., and enables a woman to retain
youthful freshness until advanced age. It takes only
a few minutes to apply at night, and the only
trace of it next day is the wonderful improvement it
has wrought to the skin. After once using it you will
feel absolutely satisfied that its value is worth three times
the money. But beware of substitutes. Valaze—small
jar 3s. 6d., large 6s. ; posted 6d. extra. Yalaze Face
Powder, three tints, absolutely pure, hygienic, and con-
tains no lead, chalk or bismuth, 2s. box. Valaze Herbal
Complexion Soap is unequalled for keeping the face and
hands in perfect condition —lasts six months—2s. Valaze
preparations obtainable W. H. Soul, Pitt-street, Sydney
Civil Service, all leading chemists, or direct from Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, 243 Collins-street, Melbourne.*
The changeable Autumn weather is already
beginning to introduce coughs and colds to
thousands of suffering citizens. It is wise to
oppose the inroads of these enemies to health and
efficiency early, in order to avoid permanent winter
colds. For this purpose there is nothing so effective
as that well proven remedy, Arnold’s Balsam, which
speedily cures catarrh, sore throats, chest com-
plaints, etc. Obtainable all chemists and store-
keepers throughout the States.*
A CHOICE
TABLE P’NOTE PINNER
is served Every Evening at
BAUMANN’S CAF€
IG2 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
FALIERES' PHOSPHATINE
HAS PRECEDENCE OVER ALL OTHER
FO O D S
FOR INFANTS A INVALIDS
ALL CHEMISTS 4 GROCERS.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
sdg
Dress Fabrics
TRADE MARK
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
vYkTHE varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 11, 1905.
Mr Dear Arini.—
Lately a comely young housemaid left her situ-
ation in a Pointer household, and the next time
her recent employer saw the damsel she was
dressed in a nurse’s uniform—becoming shades of
pink and grey—and was selling Easter cards from
house to house. It ought to be illegal for any
woman not a registered nurse to masquerade in
the uniform of one. No man could go a-canvass-
ing got up as a policeman and escape a law-
breaker’s fate. A number of women dressed as
nurses pursue an objectionable form of canvassing.
Soap-selling “nurses” are frequently met with,
and once a “nurse” called at my lair with an
undertaker’s circular.
Mrs. Scanlon, who played female lead in the
Slattery tragedy, was an ideal witness, calm, self-
contained, and, by reason of her cautious brevity
in reply, a match for Mr. Jack Want's cross-
examination. At no period of the trial did she
display any evidence of “feeling.” She is a fairly
tall woman of about 45, of good carriage, and with
hair turning grey. Her garb is usually black, but
beautiful. Since millionaire Tyson died, relations
of his by blood or marriage have been in the pub-
lic eye one way or another, and we are always re-
hearing, and forgetting, that the great economiser
left over three millions. And his property was
valued in drought time, too. Mrs. Scanlon is a
cousin of Mrs. Ross-Soden, who occasionally makes
such loud, resounding splashes in Melbourne
society. Randwick seems to have been the
favorite locality of the Tyson legatees for acquisi-
tion of property. Mrs. Scanlon and Mrs. Forbes,
another cousin, are located in the racing centre.
The Slattery family had not the least idea that
he would be sentenced to any term of im-
prisonment. He left home on the Monday of the
trial with instructions to the household to make
arrangements for a Mountain trip at the end of
the week. The house at present inhabited by the
Slattery family is the property of Mrs. Scanlon,
so she is in the cheerful position of playing land-
lady to the ruined family.
Royal Alexandra Hospital for Sick Children
is making a fresh appeal for funds, to clear off
the building debt prior to the opening of the new
hospital next year. Fifteen thousand pounds is
desired. In bad times, such as this State is now
undergoing, the sum appears huge. Still, the
kiddies shouldn’t appeal in vain. There is
nothing more pathetic than a sick child claiming
shelter. Mayoress Allen Taylor has taken the
matter up generously, and has already enlisted a
large committee to work out the two schemes sug-
gested at the first meeting. Scheme 1: That so many
thousand people should be found who would each
give £l, to be called “ the pound plea.” Scheme
2 : That 100 women should find 40 men, women
or children to give Is. per week each for 12 months;
or the same number to give 6d. a week for two
years.
Miss Birdie Leslie, the pathetic-faced little
N.S.W. composer, is faring forth to London this
week. Not to teach, but to push her compositions
and to compose some more. Her “ Polish Dance ”
and “Ave Maria” are well-known in Australia,
and divers theatre orchestr as play her waltzes and
marches. Miss Ada Crossley is to have the “ Awe
Maria” sung to her by a Sydney singer with
violin obligato, and may introduce it herself to
English audiences.
Talking of musicians: Wybert Reeve has an
illuminating article in S.M.H. on what awaits the
unknown, aspiring singer seeking name and money
in England. He relates :
I also know of a case in which a gentleman has spent
over two thousand pounds in trying to force the interest
of a colonial girl with a fine voice and good appearance,
but he has failed in getting her into what is called “ the
swim.”
I can make a pretty good guess at the identity
of the two-thousand-pounder and her banker. For
the rest, a local critic, speaking conversationally
and mentioning instances, asserts that a crowd of
third-rate (to say nothing of second-rate) singers
and players (Australians) make a very fair living
in London. Here they would starve.
Science is surely lessening the tasks of the house-
wife and the domestic servant. The seedless
apple is a fact, and all over Great Britain and the
IJ.S. it is being propagated. Apple-pie making
will be easier than in the old core-y days. Famous
horticulturist Luther Burbank, who has invented
the “plumcot,” a delightful cross between the
plum and the apricot, and a walnut Avhose shell
may be broken without machinery other than
your finger and thumb, has been experimenting
wth our flannel flower, and—disgusting fact! —
has evolved a colored bloom that reminds you of
pink flannelette. His experiments may revolu-
tionise millinery, for he has succeeded in propa-
gating flowers that will keep fresh, cut and out of
water, for months.
Mr. Alfred Deakin, whose oratory is a joy to
listen to, will arrive in Sydney next week, and
will lecture on the evening of the 19th before th«
N.S.W. Alliance.
You recollect our visitors of a year ago, Herr
Friedlander and violinist Max Schliiter. The
former has settled down in New York, and
married a musical, much-travelled girl; and the
gifted Max, who returned to Denmark to con-
tinue his studies, has become, through the death
of his father, very rich and, as a consequence,
rather lazy.
Town Clerk Nesbitt, of Sydney, has a collection
of over 11,000 picture post-cards. His English
and foreign mail of a week or so ago brought him
362, and that wasn’t a record. Mr. Nesbitt’s
daughters arrange the cards in books according to
their kind : bridges, scenery, Town Halls, Cathe-
drals, and so on.
Cunning little pockets with flaps are on some of
the wide leather belts now on view in shop
windows. But the pockets are too small to hold
a coin larger-sized than sixpence. No hope yet of
the handkerchief having a place wherein to lay
its hem. A good many women have a pocket in
the honi soit, but it’s an awkward arrangement
when there’s a sudden call for cash.
A frivolous correspondent:—
You have mentioned, more or less seriously, open work
stockings as a possible cause of eye-strain to women. I
have made careful observations, and find, quite seriously,
that they are responsible for many cases of eye-strain—
but the victims are men.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly and her golden-haired infant
returned by the Sierra on Sunday. Hubby had
fone as far as Auckland to meet his valuables.
le bustled ashore with baby (carried like a foot-
ball), and the ex-star followed, looking in the top
of condition and wearing a jaunty, red-cloth frock
with red buttons. Miss Stevenson, the ingdnue
of the Andrew Mack Co. that arrived by same
steamer, made shoreward in a short, dark-blue
cloth skirt and silk “waist ” and toque of mink fur
with big cinnamon-hued roses. She is a pure
pink-and-whiter, with her very own natural golden
hair, and a mouth that looks too small to say any-
thing but words of one syllable.
Miss Nance O’Neil has, it seems, become quite
slender, weighing, probably, less than 10 stone.
Nance’s former vastness suited some of her big
and weighty roles.
London Sketch publishes portraits of the
Maorilander, Miss Margaret Dowling, now Prin-
cess Ghica, and her husband. Latter wears a
kind of bandsman uniform. The girl seejns
to have a nice figure inside her severe tailor-
made outfit. The Imperial Ottoman Government
has found it necessary to communicate to another
Government that
Mr. Albert Ghica, a Roumanian subject, born of Rou-
manian parents, and who styles himself, “His Highness
Prince Ghica,” has no right whatever to represent himself
as having claims to a so-called Albanian throne.”
Mister , indeed ! No wonder there are earthquakes
in M.L.
Andrew Mack, the Irish singing comedian, tells
“bully” stories of American stage-life. His
“ laff ” is infectious, and he says he hopes people
won’t ask him Mack what ? He is a big, deep-
chested young man, with slab-black hair, a bullet
head, and a clean-shaven dark face, capable of 60
expressions, many of them infantile, to the minute.
Mr. Mack’s voice is that rarity, a male alto. It has
altered little since his knickerbocker days, and
ranges easily to E in the upper register. His
singing of children’s songs of the ring-a-ring-a-
rosy type of innocence might make him a kind of
Pied Piper person. But his way of giving Those
Endearing Young Charms and other Emerald
gems will palpitate the heart of that section
of the public that read its Tom Moore in the days
of its youth.
Lady Northcote, who is said to take great
interest in women’s work, from sock-knitting up to
their interpretation of Beethoven, is booked to
view the doings of a group of artists (Misses
Cusack, Meston Stephens and Norton) at Mr.
Walter Bradley’s rooms this (Thursday) afternoon.
An American writer discussing Maude .Darrell,
the London musical comedy actress, said to be
about to marry Lord Gerard: “Her face has a
massivelookthoughherdarkeyesare most effective.
There is one very curious thing about her. She
never lets her legs be seen. She wears a certain under-
garment so long that it reaches to her ankles, and
when she raises her skirts to dance, instead of the
usual display of silken hosiery, you see this gar-
ment. At first the plan caused consternation
among the gilded youths of His Majesty’s house-
hold troops, but now the fashion is regarded as
rather chic and fetching. ‘By Jove, don’t you
know,’ remarked one youthful subaltern, ‘one
got rather fed up on stockings.’ Lord Dalmeny
(Lord Rosebery’s eldest son) was one of Maude’s
most ardent admirers. Maudie wouldn’t smile on
him.
From a passenger on the Orontes, writing from
Fremantle : “Lady Rawson is already much
better, and looks her improvement. She and
Miss and young son Wyatt, who goes hence to
enter the army, proved capital sailors. But the
passage was as smooth as the average to Manly.
The N.S.W. Governor and Adonis Wilson will
stay with Governor Bedford in Perth previous to
visiting places that the gold is dug from, and
districts where oranges are grown and water
schemes flourish. May will find him back among
Sydneysiders.”
Another marriage announced is that of Miss
Huthwait to Mr. Mansfield. Bride in this case
is exchanging fashionable dressmaking for matri-
mony. She is a grand niece of late Chief Justice
Alfred Stephen and sister of Mrs. Mathew Henry
Stephen.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Aide Buxton (a recent addition to the Ston-
ington staff) is clanking a spur in public and
licking on stamps in private as temporary private
secretary. In Cloyne circles, it is believed that
long, lean Capt. Vallange, just about returning to
these shores, will be offered the permanent billet.
He has private see’ed before and sports rooster
raiment as to the manner born. But a later rumor
has it that Lord Dick Nevill, having failed to find
a ‘ situation ’ in London, is likely to be Gov.
Talbot’s final selection.
“It looks as if the Cliveden dowager were like
to usurp the vice-regal honors. Day after day
that dame is announced as having opened the
Surplus Spinster Home, the Discarded Infant
Retreat, or the Thistle Show. I have looked on
the starched widow blessing a kennel foundation-
brick, and been awed into reverence by her per-
formance of the service. No Ex. has ever put
half the devotion and dignity into such a cere-
mony. The band can scarcely restrain its brass
pieces from banging out the Anthem as the trained
dignitary departs. She has more than the official
manner—she has the divine-right-of-kings manner.
Small societies and associations for the conversion
of the distant nigger never dream now of requisi-
tioning the lady of Stonington to perform their
blessings or bazaar openings. The Dowager is a
more impressive stage effect.
“A globe-trotter sends word that the best ballet
of the world to-day is to be found in Vienna. She
found there a ballet of most dazzling beauty and
Srace; also a nest of Australians cooing amicably,
liss Lovie Mueller among them.
“ Did you ever notice how the feminine wrinkles
advertise their particular care ? The dint mid-
way in the brow, just over the nose-bridge, is
there through thinking things out till the addled
mind aches. The little lines flaring out from the
eyes tell of frivolity, shallowness, and over-much
giggling. The lines about the mouth itself confess
to temper, irritation, love-troubles, sickness. The
furrows in the cheeks spell ill-judgment (mostly in
the use of bad powders), the morbid temperament,
and a long dearth of kisses. Wonderful how
round kisses keep the face.
“ One may have too much of a good thing. The
Melba records are becoming a trial. The gramo-
phone is everywhere. So is ‘ Caro Nomo,’ the
‘ Lucia ’ mad aria, and other Melba gems. They
are switched on at at-homes to save the expense
of engaging warblers in the person. And our
hard-up vocalists are wailing, and crying curses on
the vocal ’phone.
“ Few consider the after-effects of a breach-of-
promise case on a sensitive defendant. I never
did till the charge of fiancee desertion against one
of Melbourne’s richest bachelors came up for trial
last year, and the swain, who didn’t know it was
loaded, had to pay damages that would about
buy the poor girl a handsome set of sables. The
aged bachelor never recovered from the shock of
the charge and the exposure of his innocently-
intended amourette. For months he avoided all
his old haunts, and lived out in a distant suburb
where the publication of his expensive vows had
not spread. The other day he took up his pyjama
case and stepped aboard an ocean liner for a far-
off spot, where he may gain consolation.
“ ‘ Buttons ’ in all the surgeries of Collins-street
has given place to smart Cap-and-Apron. That
neatly-caparisoned Miss is found to attend
with better results. She opens a door to a
patient with a bright, hopeful, reassuring smirk.
She is interested. The patient with the neuritis
twitches, or the knife pain in the chest, or the in-
growing toe-nail, is ‘ bucked up ’ by Cap-and-
Apron. When leaving the chamber of horrors
the sympathetic Miss shows the treated one out
gently, cheers up the confiding patient, deals out
her highest-grade smile to the he-sufferer, who
isn’t suffering so much that he can afford to over-
look smart Cap-and-Apron. Think of Buttons in
the old days ! He was so sharp, alert, impatient,
old-mannish, and despatchful that she-patients
often wanted to smack the little brute, and nervey
men were tempted to kick him.
“ The she-florists have a complaint to make.
Most fashionable patronage goes to two men in
the foliage line. Yet, by way of contrast to the
man florist, in the same street are girl-barbers,
girl-doctors, girl-dentists, girl-janitors, girl-clerks,
girl-waiters, girl-brokers ! Is it any wonder some
desperate males, in irony, start wiring the
forget-me-not and building bosom-sprays for
Beauty ?
“Psychology has no significance for the prac-
tical she-mummer. I asked one of her the other
day if another dazzler of the silk ranks was happy
in her matrimonial state with a ‘ love of a man.’
I was sentimentally interested, and hoped for a
story of exquisite happiness. But my friend
brusquely opined they were ‘getting on right
enough.’ ‘You see,’ she went on, ‘he’s a good
sort—an awfully good sort, and she is grateful to
him for all he has sacrificed.’ That constitutes
the connubial bond. Probably it will wear as
well as any other.
“Julius Knight had a birthday last week, and
Toorak quoted poetry and greetings through the
’phone and over the wires, while some other
adorers made him a nice flyspeck cake to celebrate
the day. Mr. Knight, moreover, had the girls
guessing his years, laughing indulgently at every
flattering miss they made. A he-favorite is full
of assurance as long as he thinks he is dangerous,
and he easily flatters himself he is dangerous.
After that period he grows humble and dotes
some.
“ Misses Ruby and Lesly Madden return home.
They have been long on the wing, and, by a
miracle, have escaped all matrimonial snares.
Miss Ruby is a beauty still. She can command
the lists here now easily, since her two former
rivals—the daughter of Justice Hartley Williams
and the eldest hope of Justice Hodges—have both
married with profit, and removed with their
husbands out of the State.
“Baronet Clarke, back from Vienna and the
eye-specialists, made a re-appearance in his old
stall quarters with a fair party at ‘ Pygmalion
and Galatea,’ Saturday night. Behind him, in an
imposing phalanx, was the Dowager, with a
flower-decorated contingent of dames. The florists
bless the widow for her posy-carrying and spray-
wearing all through the blooming year. It keeps
the rose-and-cactus business brisk.
“An interesting feature of the Statue show on
Saturday night, at Her Majesty’s, was the coming
together after long separation of Mrs. G. B.
Lewis, Miss Mabel Lane and Miss Unie Russell
—the veteran elocutor and two of her old pupils.
The three had an emotional statue scene to
themselves.
“The Rebottaros’ family concert last week had
an overflowing audience. No doubt that the
Achille with the baritone warble, the exquisite
tailorings, and the passionate platform style draws
the Melb. girls. His is a bold Serenader too, and
looks right in the kindling eye of sentimental
Misses when he sings in Tosti of falling leaves
and the kiss that must be straight on the brow.
“The recent Teutonic outbreak of song and
sociability at the Verein Hall was interest-
ing for the English translations of German verse,
dexterous and poetic, by Mrs. Clara Linden —one
of the very-musical Lindens of this State. In a
German troopers’ song of Simon Breu, the rush
and roar of militarism (partly in its cups) for
Kaiser and Faderland is capitally conveyed.
“A dancing mistress here advertises the fact
that she taught Lord Dick Nevill his ballroom
capers.
“ The girl-angler is an established sporting fact.
A rod-and-worm competition took place, the other
Saturday, on the upper reaches of the Yarra,
before a fishy set of experts. Each angler was
allowed to have a man-mate to support her (meta-
phoncally) through the long, still noon and help
(practically) m the worm-adjusting and (when ft
happened) the landing of the fish. Some girleen
with the name of a common coin, like Farthing or
Halfpenny, took the trophy with a perch scaling
close on 31b. Most Melbourne girls squirm and
wear horribly guilty expressions whenever angling
with the rod or net is mentioned. Wasn’t it Swift
who said too much time was wasted in making nets
and not enough spent in building cages ?
“ Governor Talbottle has been in camp and see-
ing things. The 11th Light Nag Regiment pleased
the Vice-regal Reggie so much that he granted
the use of his crest and motto to the proud
Tommies, to be worn by all, without prejudice.
If the regiment maintains its good conduct, the
Talbottle colors (red and orange) are to be added
unto the badge. It seems too, too much.
“There’s a new winter notion—slumber slip-
pers ! What a Guy Fawkes the beauty-seeker
makes of herself for the poetical dream-hour!
Her face is larded, her hair (or a switch of it, at
least) is removed to the delusion table, her face is
tied up and padlocked into a machine for prevent-
ing double-chin, her detachable teeth are secreted
in a hiding-place, her complexion roses have been
demolished by the sponge, her pencil brows have
suffered a similar fate, and when the gowned one
finally thrusts her Trilbies into slumber slippers,
it is a complete picture.
“ Golfers are getting into brier-proof garments
and strapping on their gaiters, preparatory to
storming the links. Kid or leather bindings are
machined to the skirt borders for practical protec-
tion as well as style. The motor helmets and the
caps with a back-fall that is pulleyed in and lashed
under the chin, are being seized on by smart golfers
who have had expensive as well as ghastly experi-
ences of hats and hai r being blown across the horizon
by sudden storm-gales. There is a story from a
fashionable source that one strenuous golfer wears
but one compact garment which cannot blow up
or drop off without due notice, and a hat secured
to head and neck by a scarf of sail-cloth that no
tempest may dislodge.
“One of aesthetic Mrs. Maidment’s twin-
daughters, Evelyn Irene, is engaged to Mr. Her-
bert Graham. Of course the wrong twin is con-
gratulated every time. How awkward for the
man unless his girl has an eyelash more or less
than the other ! There must be some subtle dif-
ference to explain a man getting engaged to part
of a twin and not to the lot.
“ The ’phone is the cause of a horrid split in an
engagement. The man is the younger of the two
—yet he is always in the wrong. Last time he
failed to make an appearance at dinner, for which
he was to arrive at 6.30. Seats at the theatre
were booked for the evening. At seven o’clock a
wire came— ‘ Horribly off-color. Accept excuses.
Writing to-night.’ Then the ire of that lady rose.
She made at once for the ’phone and rang up
every conceivable place where the brute might be
expected to nurse his sick feelings. Without
avail. But at 10 o’clock that night there was a
gentle ting-a-ling. She was near by—she had
been near by, woman-like, cross yet hopeful—the
whole evening. ‘ ’Night, my dear ! ’sthat you ? ’
Then came a horribly clear hiccup. They’re not
Slaying speaks ; and she wonders did he mean it ?
»r was it a cruel accident ?
“What a mass of contradictions a certain brow-
beetling dramatic mummer is ! He is scholarly,
artistic, musical, has creative talent, yet he gloats
over murders, and the shocking kind of cases that
are heard in camera, and even attends trials of a
creepy, sensational, spine-tickling class whenever
rehearsals permit.
“Interested in the case of an ailing Society
widow, I asked her physician was she improving,
or likely to —any time ahead. His reply was that
it was ‘just a common case of refusing to grow
old. She is old, but she manages to conceal the
fact from herself and the world. She has the
appearance of being beautifully preserved, and
mentally she is brilliant and keen. But her years
are, as a fact, those of a retired grannie. She
keeps going with the youngest, lives as vividly,
adopts the same pace, and I know that her bones
must be aching — are aching—and her strength
strained to a painful degree. She won’t grow old—
that is all the matter.’ Hundreds are in the same
fix. It’s game, but the end is swifter.
“ There is a new method of expressing farewell
sentiments to the ocean voyager. The cabin of
the favorite is converted into a rose arbor— a
snuggery festooned with foliage, leaf-green rib-
bons, Cupid bows, flying cherubs, and other
devices significant of love, friendship, and remem-
brance. When the flowers droop, the main
decorations still hold fast, and the fair voyager
breathes in an environment of figurative adulation
all the way to Marseilles. This cabin compliment
was paid a Sydney family by some Melbourne
chums last week.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


WORN-OUT HEARTS.
Sudden Death Averted by Dr, Williams’ Pink Pills -
“ I ,IOR months I lived in fear of sudden
death,” said Mrs. Ellen Skehan, 3 Bel-
JL more-street, Balmain, Sydney. “Every
beat of my heart told me 1 had Heart
Disease. It seemed to be worn right out with
weakness. Nothing gave it strength or rid me of
the fear of death until I took a good course of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.”
From birth (says a medical author) the heart
beats 70 times a minute, so it is not surprising
that hearts wear out oftener than people think.
Seventy beats a minute—more than 30,500,000 a
year ! No wonder there is unsuspected Heart
Disease in the world !
Unsuspected Heart Disease may mean Sudden
Death. Does your arm grow numb? Do your
eyelids tremble ? Have you momentary faintness
and confusion ? If so, the heart is a little worn.
Does your breath come short and fast? Do your
temples throb ? Have you a sharp, sudden stitch
in your side ? The heart again ! Are you flushed
after eating? Does your heart jump and thump
and flutter at any sudden excitement ? These are
all signs of Heart Disease. Again, the heart is
easily disturbed by Anaemia, Indigestion, Ner-
vousness, Rheumatism, Gout, and the after-effects
of Diphtheria, Influenza and Fevers, especially
Scarlet or Rheumatic Fevers. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People are a perfect cure for
heart weakness. They actually make new blood,
and so strike right at the root of Heart lJisea.se.
“Twelve months ago my heart started to go
back on me,” continued Mrs. Skehan. “At
times I could hardly walk two steps. My whole
system was run down. I don’t think my blood
was much better than water. My stomach was
too weak to digest my food. But, worst of all, was
my heart. It thumped like mad if I took half-a-
dozen steps quickly. An 3' sudden sound set it
beating furiously. A fright made me ill for days.
My head used to go round and round, and a
horrible sickly faint feeling would come over me.
I often thought one of these fits would take me
off.
“Every morning I woke with that horrible
tired feeling,” Mrs. Skehan went on to say.
“ Everything was a trouble to me. At last a
friend told me to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
They made a wonderful difference in me. The
second box gave me a great appetite. Gradually
they filled my heart with rich, strong, healthy
blood, so that it worked regularly and well. Mv
nerves grew steady, and I slept better. To-day
lam a strong, robust, healthy woman. My heart
gives me no trouble now. I believe they saved
my life—so I cannot say too much in praise of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.”
how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills build up the
strength in just one way—they actually make new
blood. That is all they do, but they do it well,
ihey don’t act on the bowels. They don’t bother
with mere symptoms. They won’t cure any
disease that isn’t caused by bad blood. But then
nearly all common diseases spring from that one
cause anaemia, indigestion, biliousness, head-
aches, sideaches, backaches, kidney trouble, lum-
rheumatism, sciatica, neuralgia, nervous-
ness, general weakness, and the special secret
ailments that growing girls and women do not like
to talk about even to their doctors. But you must
insist on getting the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink
I ills—always m boxes, never in bottles. If your
local retailer cannot give you exactly what you
a.sk for, order them by mail from the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Sydney—2/9 a box, post free. If
you are in any doubt about your illness, write to
the same address for free medical advice.
WD* WILLI AMS*
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE
COPLE
PERSONAL ITEMS.
G. H. Reid won't appoint himself to the
Supreme Court Bench ; it’s the High Commis-
sionership that lie’s after.
George Turner is having the worst of luck
with his health. Last week he took on influenza.
On behalf of Victoria the Commonwealth Trea-
surer i%.ould make a point of conferring his next
ailment upon Bent.
B. R. Wise’s first brief in London was in
a suit to argue that artist Whistler’s estate had a
right of property in his famous “ butterfly ” sig-
nature.
The descent of man as shown in the news-
paper headings during the past month: Hon.
T. M. Slattery, Mr. T. M. Slattery, T. M
Slattery, Slattery. And now he is a numeral.
It is one of the penalties of royalty that a
king, or one of his family, cannot have a boil
without it being advertised as liberally as .Toll's.
Two former members of the Victorian
Parliament are now housed in a church asylum
for the old and helpless. They must have been
fairly honest public men in their time, one
supposes, and the wage of “moderate honesty”
in politics, too often, is ruin.
Cabled that Carrie Swain lias lost her suit
against Frank Gardner, claiming that she be
recognised as his. wife. Impresses again the
moral: Never dogmatise about theatrical mar-
riages.
Easter Monday this year falls on the anni-
versary of William Shakspeare’s birthday, which
is always a marked occasion in the literary circles
of America.
No details are cabled as to the location of
the Prince of Wales’ boil, but as its host was a
Royalty, and heir to the British throne, Heaven
no doubt arranged that it should appear in some
dignified if not absolutely poetic position.
Ex-brewer Edwin Smith, of S.A., reached
74 on April 6. He. still takes a keen interest in
athletics and charities.
Ex-member John Storey, defeated at last
election by sectarianism, has been, it is said,
boycotted in Sydney engineering shops because
of his brief Labor membership.
Chief-Justice Madden, visited in his sick-
room by a Melb. Argus reporter, bewailed the
fact “prisoners are always healthy when they
come out of Pentridge. Perhaps,” he said,
enviously, “it is the change of occupation
does it.” There is certainly no doubt about the
salutary effect of six months’ hard, physically
speaking, and the inference is obvious.
THE MAIN THING.
ARTIST : "That, sir, is a very realistic little
picture .”
JEW: “ Vy, how much did it realise ?”
Late “ Tattersall ” AdamC N.S. Wales
estate cut up at £50,340. There was £187,675
worth of assets, nearly all Pitt and George streets
property.; but it carried mortgages of £125,961.
“Sao” : Be first native professor at Sydney
Uni. (B. 6/4/’O5). Mr. Tom Butler took his Sydney
B.A. m 1876, became evening lecturer in Classics
1880, and Professor of Latin 1891. Mr. Pollock
became professor in 1899.
Dame Moffat, a S.A. old colonist, cele-
brated her 95th birthday on April 4th. She was a
daughter of Hurtle Fisher, pioneer colonist; and
all the Fishers are noted for longevity. The seven
surviving members of the family total 565 years
between them.
They harnessed eight horses into the drag
that carried Premier Bent about Kyabram on the
occasion of-a recent visit. Tommy took it as a
tribute to his importance, but it was only a con-
cession to his bulk. The roads about Kyabram
are not too good.
. Bard of Works Fitzgibbon, Melbourne,
issues a pamphlet to defend himself and his Board,
mainly in reply r to Age attacks. The chief interest
° v- f Publication is in a story of the ’fifties, in
which Fitz. seeks to account for the Age’s unre-
lenting bitterness of over half-a-century. In ’55
the Age published a letter reflecting upon Fitz. in
ms martial dignity as lieutenant of the Volunteer
Artillery. Fitzgibbon, thus wounded in his ten-
derest feelings, met Ebenezer Syme in the street,
and demanded the name of the author of the let-
Aezer refused to give it, and the martial
fitzgibbon thereupon landed him one on the point.
A police court case followed, and Fitz. was fined
£_ for common assault. “Since when,” says the
Bard of \\ orks, ‘ ‘ the Age has relentlessly pursued
m ®‘ ritzgibbon seems to think that if it were
not for that unfortunate swipe on the jaw, the
", ® °* to-day would find his life and works all
t i it an admiring and grateful country could desire.
THE RETREAT.
Said that Mr. Mackay, once Vice-Presi-
dent of N.S.W. Legislative Council, who has been
politically very quiet for some time, will soon
claim attention by a couple of books, one of prose.
Recent deaths : John Taylor, close up to
80, reputedly the oldest resident Parramatta
(N.S.W.) native; Adolphus Rogalsky, 66, who
accumulated much bricks and mortar, and did not
lend out money gratis ; William Kussell, solicitor,
admitted 1846, aged 81 years. The death of Ar.
Russell leaves James Norton, M.L.C., admitted
1848, the oldest in the “ lower ” branch of the legal
profession in Sydney.
Mr. H. C. Russell, Govt. Astronomer 6f
N.S.W., has now finished his long retiring leave,
and quits the service on a pension. In Mr.
Russell’s hands the billets of Govt, weather-
prophet and official star-gazer were combined,
and he did not make a success of the former.
The office will now be split in two, the meteor-
ology going to Mr. H. A. Hunt, who has already
shown promise of good work in the position.
Concerning one of Maoriland’s tragedies :
George Fisher, just dead, was probably the very finest
speaker ever heard in M.L. Parliament; a brilliant
debater, too—keen, accurate, logical, convincing.
From reader-boy in Sydney. Fisher became com-
positor in Maoriland, then reporter on the In-
dependent (Wellington), chief of Hansard staff,
Mayor, M.H.K., Minister of Education, Trade
and Customs. A dozen years ago there was no
more picturesque figure in public life; and he
would have been a serious rival to Premier
Seddon had not his later career been marred
by his overmastering failing. Though, simply
because of his drink excesses, he was not taken
seriously' during the past half-dozen years, he
was always sure of return. Inthe election cam-
paign of 1899 his expenses amounted to 7s. In
19)2 he had a one-inch advt. in the Times at the
eleventh hour. “lam a late starter,” he said;
“but a desperate finisher,” and George Fisher
wa? again junior member for Wellington. One
night last session, just before the House re-
sumed after supper, Fisher stood up and ad-
dressed the Strangers’ Gallery 7—“ Gentlemen of
the jury 7, I appeal to you on behalf of this
unfortunate man. I tell you he is not guilty 7.
Therefore I ask you to give him his liberty, in
the name of all ” —— Here Mr. Speaker brought
the incident to a close. Fisher’s funeral was
attended by thousands.
Randolph Bedford has not been idle since
landing in the Cold Country. He has disposed of
two books to London publishers, “Explorations
in Civilisation,” and a novel; has found a Cockney
manager to produce a play of his making; and has
won a big case for damages against a rich syndi-
cate that set him to do something in Australia and
then bucked. The Reckless is on the way to
secure St. Paul’s for his watchchain. By the
way, he differs so strongly from Lawson re literary
prospects for Australians in London that he writes
energetically assuring one Australian journalist
that he is neglecting a certain fortune in remaining
away from Fogville.
Newly - appointed Queensland Commis-
sioner of Police Cahill has longed for the position
for many a day. When no one seriously con-
sidered his chances, he used to say what he would
do in the nature of reforms if he got the oppor-
tunity. The appointment was made in the face
of a good deal of official opposition. This will
make Cahill’s row hard to hoe.
A case in Kalgoorlie (W.A.) Circuit Court,
the other day, shows-what it is reckoned to be
worth to manage a gold-mine ; Gleisberg, lately
manager of the Associated, was, it was shown,
paid £25)0 a year, with house, furniture, fuel,
w iter, and a few extras thrown in. And there are
admittedly bigger men in the mining line than
Gleisberg. and bigger mines than the Associated.
Yet. for managing the finances of Australia,
Treasurer Turner is paid £1650, and there are
heaps of people who growl that he is overpaid ;
while the State of Westralia pays its mining
inspectors, who are to some extent placed in
authority over Gleisberg, and are supposed to
know as much about mining as he does, £420 and
£4BO a year.
Two Eureka Stockade veterans
passed out, the other week : Thomas
Bolger, a Gippsland pioneer, at Jum-
buk (Vic.); and Charles Sublet, a Swit-
zerland native, at Rochester (Vic.).
Q. Deputy P.M.G. Buzacott,
who leaves the Federal service on six
months’ pay, gets no pension, for he
was amongst the number who < were
bought out in Queensland some years
ago when the fund was declared to be
insolvent. As far back as 1859 he
came to Australia from England, with
shattered health. Ten years later he
joined the Post Office, and has re-
mained in the dept, since, fairly
robust. His successor is likely to be
Mr. C. E. Bright.
Mr. S. M. Mowle, the lately-
retired usher of the Black Rod in
N.S.W. Leg. Council, at the ripe age
of 83 is still hale and hearty ; and he
now regrets nothing more acutely
than the fact of his retirement, and
the lack of his long-accustomed occu-
pation. He still haunts Parliament
House. Throughout his 22 years of
office as Black Rod he had never once
been absent from his post, and he
patiently absorbed every speech made
in the Council during that period. In
his opinion B. R. Wise is the ablest
speaker the Council has possessed
since it lost by death W. B. Dailey.
Mr. Mowle divides the stalk of the
debating palm between Dr. M'Laurin,
Dr. Cullen, Dr. .T. B. Nash, and Alex.
Kethel.
Concerning T. M. Slavery :
Some legal friends called on T. M. Slattery at
Darling-hurst gaol last week. He came to see them in
prison garb, saluted the governor of the gaol, and
t.ien entered keenly into the business of the interview.
He did not seem “ broken-up,” but strong and resigned.
Possibly he may partially retrieve himself, despite
his 61 years. Many will hope so. In some mat-
ters Slattery was profoundly selfish (in politics
he would sacrifice anybody and anything but him-
self), in others he was open-handed and generous.
Never a case of distress came to Slattery without avail,
and it wasn’t by any means al ways other people’s money
that went in relief. After gambling, charity was Slattery’s
chief extravagance ; he didn’t drink expensively, live
ostentatiously, or keep a harem.
At one time T. M. Slattery was Tiie Bulletin’s solicitor.
For many years also he was solicitor to the Trades a,nd
Labor Council, and was generally a prominent figure
in Radical and quasi-Itadical circles. At the time of the
Broken Hill strike, when most public men were howling
for the workers’ blood, Slattery’s voice was lifted on the
other side. Allowing the justice of his punishment,
Radicals can’t help feeling sorry for Slattery.
Over-vaulting ambition it was that put the man pro-
strate on the turf. Slattery was of the never-satisfied
sort. As a solicitor he won a big practice ; in the civil
service he was once prothonotary of the Supreme Court;
in politics he rose to be a Minister of the Crown ; yet he was
never satisfied, never recognised that his merits were suf-
ficiently rewarded. He exaggerated his abilities. His
last effort to win fame was by the turf —the most foolish
of all efforts, for on the turf the layman comes into con-
tact with the most thoroughly organised and completely
skilled of all rogueries. As well might the lamb go hunt-
ing for wolves’ hides as the ordinary citizen seek to wrest a
fortune from horse-racing.
One strong factor in the Slattery dhbftole was a race-
horse named after Slattery’s initials, “T.M.5.,” and
which ultimately came into Slattery’s possession as a pre-
sent. To those whom the gods would destroy they give
a racehorse. The Slattery moke was a brute which
always nearly won, but never once managed to get its
nose right in front on any remunerative (occasion. And
so “ T.M.S.” was interpreted by the crowd as “ Too Many
Seconds ” and “ Too Much Sorrow.”
A generous, but misguided, attempt was made to col-
lect the amount of Slattery’s deficiency, with a view to
the settlement of the case. A w.ell-known turf man
headed the list with £5OO, but the total amount, ’tis said,
only reached £llOO. One prominent politician refused
to subscribe on the ground that a man “who had
held the high position* in the King’s service that he had
could not ass.st in striving to compound a felony.” In
R.C. Church quarters there was a complete lack of sympa-
thy with the movement, for in the matter of Slattery’s
accounts there had been one matter over which the
Church had a special grievance. Nothing like the amount
required could be raised. It was well that it should be so,
though, to those who offered to subscribe, credit is due
for goodness of heart f not for worldly w.sdom.
The quiet dignity of the Slattery trial must have struck
fear into the heart of many another offender. There was
no venom in the prosecution ; the Crown Prosecutor did
his unhappy duty with firmness but without malice ; the
jury hesitated no longer than was, so to speak, due to the
difficulty of understanding how a man who had filled such
high positions in the community should fall so miserably ;
ar.d the Judge awarded a just, but not vindictive, sen*
tenoe. No criminal trial on the records of the State better
vindicates the majesty of the law.
Slattery convicted himself by his own pen. His appeal-
ing letters to Mrs. Scanlon—in one of which he said that
if she pressed him it might mean gaol for him —were the
strongest evidence against him. That opinion—his own
opinion, and the opinion of a lawyer—damned him. Un-
doubtedly had he played cunning, “ laid low and said
nuttin’,” made a counter-claim for services rendered,
turned the whole matter into a question of accounts,
and written no benedictory letters, Slattery could have
escaped.
Ic's a mistake to think that Slattery was an extra-
cunning man. He was rather an extra-vain one. A
correct self-appraisement would have kept him honest by
showing him that he hadn’t the cuteness to be success-
fully dishonest.
Worth noting that the Watchman, the Sydney organ of
D.ll-Mackyism, has no diatribes about the Slattery case.
Even religious rancor has its reservations imposed by
human feeling.
TRUTH WILL OUT.
“ Y’ young divil, wot yer got be’ind yer back!”
“Nothin’.”
“Yes yer ’are; y’ got one of my apples.”
“No I hain't; it's a quince.”
ST. FRANCIS II.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I learnt tlie language of the birds,
A new St. Francis I would he ;
But, when I understood their words, —
The birds were preaching unto me.
V. J. DALEY.


WATSON’S WHISKY
Reach's Waverley Brewery, Agents.
A Unique
Opportunity
WE have decided on extending
OUR GREAT SALE till
April hOth, to allow our country-
constituents and others who will
visit Sydney during Easter a
chance to make a personal visit.
It’s an opportunity of genuine
saving that should not be missed.
LOOK FOR O’JR BLUE SALE BILLS. If
you cannot come, write at once and
let our Sale Catalc gue come to you.
*5
ur
This Magnificent
Necklet & Pendant
Of 15ct. Gold, set with 17 first-water
Diamonds, 4 Lovely Sapphires,
and a lustrous pear-shape Pearl.
Regular price, £24 10s.
Sale Price, £2O 16 6
POST FREE IN
AUSTRALASIA.
G. & S. ALLIANCE, Ltd.
90, on the Block,
King St., SYDNEY.
Aboriginalities.
Ancient miner, after listening to several
steep stories about “fossil finds”: “Them ain’t
worth speakin’about! Why, when I was work-
ing in the west drive at the 201-foot, in the old
X shaft at M ,me an’ my mate come across
a whole tree fossil. Yes, a whole pootrified tree,
with pootrified birds sittin’ on the branches a-
singin’ pootrified songs.”
* * * «
A Bogan station crank was heard by one of
the boys (entering his hut late at night) making
vociferous appeals to the Lord to save him.
After much noisy entreaty, and a little expectant
silence, the supplicant changed his tactics.
“Well, if You’re not going to save me, I’m going
to have a blanky smoke ! ” And he did.
* * *■ *
“G.T.L.” ; Once when I was in company
with a Queensland aborigine, he asked me if I
could see any stars. It was about 10 on a sunny
forenoon, so I laughed at the idea : but the black
pointed to one here and another there. I then
asked him to pick out a big one. He did so, and,
on looking up through the thick foliage of a tree
in the direction indicated, there, sure enough, was
the star. I was therefore convinced that the
darkie could see the others even in the sunlight.
Is this a case of abnormally strong sight or an
aggravated form of hypermetropia—the common
Australian visual defect ?
IDEAL AND REAL.
Ironbark Bill, the celebrated stockman—as
pictured in the London journals, and in actual life.
“F.A.W.” writes about cattle-throwing:
The beast (cow, bull or bullock) is “run” by a horse-
man until it is winded ; then the man dismounts and
chases the beast on foot until he can get hold of the tail
one hand near the butt, a turn of the brush round t’other!
He then “sits back,” and the beast, in attempting to
“ hook ” him, circles round until it falls. If it doesn’t fall
so, it is turned on its side and a man sits astride of it at
the loin and, placing its hind legs together, straps them
at the hocks. The beast is then turned on its belly. If
intended to leave “ in straps ” for any length of time, the
beast is hobbled (with a strap on the'front legs instead of
the hind). It can then stand, which it cannot do if hind
legs are tied.
There is not much danger attached to this method of
throwing, as, while the man retains hold of the tail-
keeping a steady strain—it is impossible for the beast to
“ book ” him, and want of wind prevents it kicking.
There are several other ways of throwing, such as
catching the beast by the near foreleg and off horn or
vice versa ; or catching by both horns, one hand on top
of one horn (palm downward), t’other below horn (palm
upward), and twisting the beast’s neck. This is rather a
risky way, and requires considerable nerve and dexterity.
It is seldom or never used in throwing bulls or bullocks'
but is occasionally used to throw cows, usually when as
sometimes happens, the cow turns on the man before’ he
can get hold of her tail; or when the stockman wishes to
exhibit his prowess.
If impossible to throw a beast single-handed, then two
or more men tackle it. Have seen four men half-an-
hour throwing an 18-months-old heifer. But as a rule
one man to one beast is plenty.
Throwing and tying is the ordinary daily occupation of
scores of stockmen on part of the Dawson River country
(Q.), especially in winter, when they go “ nuggetino- ”
i.e., “scrub-running” for clean-skins, a lot of which can
onty be got by tying, and then coaching them with quiet
cattle.
* * * *
It was at an amateur prayer-meeting in
the early days of the W.A. fields, when the
uneven camel was one of the most prominent
institutions in tho land of wild-cats and Bigjohn.
Outside the few hard-working religionists organ-
ising the affair, the “ congregation ” was mostly
prospectors who had come, to look on. AH went
well till the meeting was asked to join in prayer.
Then there was an awkward pause, the audience
feeling that something—no one quite knew what—
was expected. At last a kindly Groper in the
back row solved the situation with the Afghan
camel command, “ Hooshta ! ” and the prospectors
“hooslied,” and the teamsters “hooshed,” and as
the preacher man was already in a state of hoosh
the situation was saved.
. ♦ * * *
“ Way back ” : The announcement that
sugar and tannin have been found in gum-bark
reminds nie of an old chap in the backblocks who
used to make grog from gum-bark with a very
primitive bush-made apparatus. The stuff was
much better, too, than wliat is sold in many pubs,
as whisky. The distiller didn’t sell the spirit,
but used it as a medicine when he felt ill, or to
treat a traveller who might drop in.
* * * »
“ Edyson ” : Went rabbitting one after-
noon, with a small boy companion, down Haddon
way, Cardigan, Ballarat. We took with us a
double-barrelled, muzzle-loading shot-gun, loading
with half-pints of shot and large overdoses of dia-
mond grain. We also took a small, inexperienced,
but willing, mongrel named Noah. During a
trying day we succeeded in shooting two lizards
and a large green frog ; and were returning in the
evening, weary, quarrelsome, and utterly dis-
gusted, when we raised our first rabbit. I let fly
one barrel, and missed, and was kicked over on
my neck. Noah took up the running, and gave
bunny a bright and busy sprint for a big hollow
100- by the roadside. Into the log dashed the
rabbit, and Noah stood at the entrance and
yapped savagely. I assumed command, and
stationed my mate, Billy, at the other end of the
log with a piece of wood large enough to “dofor ” a
working bullock. Then, having one barrel loaded,
I took my stand, and ordered Noah to “ sool ”
him. If the rabbit came out at Billy’s end,
Billy was to bash him good and hard;
if he came out at my end, 1 was to
destroy him with about h tlf-a-pound of swan-
shot. Noah went in somewhat reluctantly, and
presently there were muffled sounds of a scuffle in
the hollow. Billy stood ready, I had the old duck
gun at my shoulder, and my finger on the trigger.
Suddenly something brown and hairy emerged
from Billy’s end of' the log, and Billy biffed it.
It was no fault of ours that it happened to be the
head of a weary wanderer who had crawled into the
log to take his rest, but that did not retard our
masterly retreat. I have often wondered what
the sundowner thought when he came-to, pre-
suming he did come-to, and I’ve never ceased to
thank God he was lucky enough not to come out
at my end, where the blunderbuss was anxiously
waiting.
* * * *
“ Stacky ” : Pushing the “ knot ” down a
Darling tucker track, some time back, I was
struck with the sign outside the pub., “Licensed
to sell Foamented and Spurtous Likors.” Had
sampled almost all the varieties of mulga mad-
ness, but had never “took my booze” at the
Spurtous and Foamented, so I dropped in. An
old sundowner sparred up on seeing me approach
the bar. He said he had had several rums, but
the mulga madness brands never upset his diges-
tion, as he always carried an antidote. We had
more rums, and the old sundowner was still cool
and collected. I was getting a trifle mixed, so I
adjourned outside, where the man who sold the
foamented and spurtous was talking to his daugh-
ter. I managed to catch her words : “ What you
think, Dad ? I’ve given that old sundowner five
drinks out of No. 9, and the wretch is walking
yet. What do you think I had better do ? ” Then
replied the vendor of foamented and spurtous
likor: “ Give the Cove one out of No. 13, and if
that don’t settle him we’ll have to try the sand-
bag.” I hastened back, and told the old chap
what I had heard. “ That s all right, sonny,” he
said; “I’ve an antidote for sandbag,” and he
showed me a six-shooter. I thought him well able
to look after himself, so I left him to lubricate on
foamented and spurtous drink, with a dash of
sandbag. But what a land it is, where a man has
to defend himself from his own rum with a pistol !
* ■*- ¥ *
“ Hamer ” : Flying foxes do not seem to
have foxed to any great extent this year. There
have been no reports from orcharding districts of
shooting-parties, and from leafy places about
Sydney, where they used to swarm and wake the
night with their squeaking* and metallic elashings
with telegraph-wires, they have practically dis-
appeared.
*' * •
“ V.D.” : Some unobservant persons have
wondered how it is that Sydney, and not Mel-
bourne, should have been, with but few excep-
tions, all through Australia’s brief history, the
habitat of the poet and the home of the Bohemian.
I see no cause for wonderment—-the poetic tem-
perament abhors mathematics and loves not
straight lines, rectangles, squares, rigid uniformity
and strict conventionality. You cannot zig-zag
far down a wide, straight, sparsely-occupied
street without being detected and brought to
shame. On the other hand, the ovals and the
curves, the sinuosities and the spirals, the quaint-
nesses and unexplorednesses, the browns and blues,
the greys and golds,'the winds and the wefts of
the city of many waters lend themselves admirably
to the corkscrewings and unconventionalities of
Bohemianism, and are moreover sources of inspi-
ration far surpassing anything to be found in the
right lines, unbending bluestone, and the Puritan
Sabbath of Melbourne.
* * * *
“Talkin’ of jibbin’ horses,” said Droney,
“reminds me of Spanker. Took him down the
paddock for a load of wood one mornin’, an’ when
I’d loaded the cart the old dog wouldn’t pull a
pound. Well, I jest tied him to a tree an’ let him
stand. Guv him another shot at sundown ; but
no, he wouldn’t draw worth a cent. I made up
me mind that the old crawler wouldn’t go ’ome
till he took that wood with him. The night
warn’t very cold, an’ I was down to see him purty
early in the mornin’; but he hadn’t changed his
mind. I guv him his own time. Paid him another
visit at noon, an’ he was lookin’ hungry an’ lone-
some like. He drew that wood ’ome at the fust
askin’. I went back an’ got another load ’fore I
fed him. Then I patted the old chap, an’ guv
him a reg’lar bellyful. I’ve drawed tons with him
since. He jibbed once; but, as soon as he saw
me start for ome, he put down his ’ead, an’—my
oath ! —he fetched that load alone- full lick.”
THOSE DAMNATORY CLAUSES.
On Wednesday night three young men sat outside a
Melbourne hotel and sang hymns with great vigor, re-
fusing to stop unless the publican came down and “ filled
the bottle.” They were charged at the City Court with
insulting behavior.— Neivs Item.
Captain op the Flying Angels : “ Look 'ere,
old bloke, you've 'ad jive hymns an' eight
prayers. Now, if you don’t stand us a pint
we'll start on the bloomin' Athanasian creed."
“War E.” : Some splitters on Erinvale
Station (N.S.W.) in bursting open a solid box log
came upon a lizard imbedded in the timber. It
was alive, and lived for several minutes after being
released from its prison. With the usual careless-
ness of the busliman, they put the curiosity into
the fire. If the usual bushman found the original
Ark of the Covenant he would boil the billy
with it.
* * * *
“ Syddod ” : “ Oktis ” (B. 23/3/’O5) forgets
that N.S.W. has three well-defined climates —
those of the coast district, of the
tablelands, and of the great plains.
I have lived on the coast for 48
years, and having been connected
with the timber trade all my life I
can speak with authority about ring-
barking. There are fifty times as
many trees in the coast district now
as there were 60 or 70 years ago.
What was then open, park-like,
well-grassed country is now densely
timbered and quite grassless. The
hills and ranges all round here are
densely wooded, and, except where
the trees are ringbarked, there is
absolutely no grass. Yet old resi-
dents remember when these ranges
were well-grassed, lightly timbered,
and carried much stock; but so
thick is the timber now that there
is neither stock nor any native fauna,
except in the brushes. The timber
has killed the grass, and the animals
have perished for want of food.
Hargreaves, the gold-discoverer, had
a cattle-station on Tuggerah Lakes, and there
were cattle-stations in my time all the way from
Gosford to Maitland. Examination will show a
few, very old trees, but fully 90 per cent, of the
growth has sprung up since the coast district was
stocked, and but that constant war is made
against it, the timber would in a very few years
take complete possession of the soil.
“ Bareda ” : There
are two distinct
varieties of cocky,
One is the man
who gets up at
3 a.m. to feed his
horses and rouse
his hired labor,
and then belts
into Nature as
though he meant
to clear the con-
tinent; and the
other is the tired
person sitting on
the fence, ex-
pectorating at
the world. The
medium hard-
worker is rare.
Perhaps Monaro
takes the bun for
tiredness. They
need fires there.
A horse is chain-
ed to a 60- feet
log, two slabs
are moved from
each side of the
fireplace, the log
is drawn up,
chain passed
through, and end
of log drawn
across fire. As a
piece burns away
thelogislevcred-
up with a bar
outside. Saves
cross-cutting and
splitting ; an d
gives a fire to
roast a bullock,
and a draught
through the open
slabs cold enough
to make ice-
cream. The same
man does not go
to catch his
horse; he sends
“ Bluey ” to heel
him home, lie
mends a fence
with a sapling,
or ties up a
broken joint with
stringy-bark. It's
too much trouble
to take off his pants
at night. The bed
has to be shifted at
every rain-storm, because of a
fresh leak in the bark-roof. But if
the tired man doesn’t accomplish much now, what
he has done, according to his own account, would
fill The Bulletin.
“ A.P.R.” : Bushmen watch ants at work
(B. 16/3/‘O6) for the reason that Darwin and
Lubbock watched them—because they are intensely
interesting. After a heavy fall of rain, I recently
saw an ant colony feverishly sinking fresh shafts.
Each hole had its “worker,” with several smaller
ants carrying away the earth he brought up.
When the big ant remained too long boring, the
others would haul him out of the hole. In one
place, about a dozen ants had pinioned a “worker”
down, and were apparently trying something
stronger than moral suasion to make him work.
Perhaps they were enforcing a common rule of
their Arbitration Court.
* * * ♦
“ Vigilans ” : Nearly every horse you see
here (Kimberley, W.A.) this time of the year
(March) has huge holes under the eyes, eaten into
the head by the flies, and it’s quite common to
see a mob of horses rushing madly towards
the marshes from this country, in the endeavor
to escape the pests. Strange to say, flies clon't
worry cattle, which thrive wonderfully here.
A DROUGHT.—SKETCH ON THE PLAINS.
“Mars”: Youngsters can often ask their
elders posers. This, from a seven-year-older, is
about the best I’ve heard: “If there were no
stars, no moon, no earth, no people, no nothing;
and if I wasn’t there to see that there was
nothing, how would I know there was no no-
thing ?’’ Will some Aborigin&liar kindly answer ?
THE RISKS OF SOBRIETY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They may talk about the risks of gettin’ boozed,
An’ the virtues of sobriety, an’ what,
But blokes, I sez, should stick to what they’re used,
An’ the rest is just eternal tommy-rot.
There was Geordie Smith, the trucker, up at Clunes,
He didn’t drink in a small way like you or me ;
He could pitch it to these Rechabitish loons
’Bout the dreadful dangers of sobriety.
Smith, for years, went home on Sunday, rollin’ tight,
By the hill-track, at a most terrific bat,
But one day he hadn’t touched it, jso at night
He concluded he could cut across the flat.
Well, the blessed flat was riddled like a sieve,
An’ by dark ’twas sort of ghostly an’ forlorn,
An’ the night was rather cloudy. As I live,
Little Smith he turned up missin’ in the morn.
Men went after him, an’ plumbed the deepest shaft
Where they found him floatin’ queerly, like a gull,
But concussed, an’ bust, an’ reg’lar howlin’ daft,
With a litho-blessed fracture in his skull.
He was put to bed at once, an’ lingered there,
’Twas months afore he set foot on a plat;
But the lesson wasn’t wasted, you can swear—
Geordie never went home sober after that !
SIDAS SNELL.


AS GOOD
FOR
WOMEN
AS
FOR MEN.
2
7
WE ARE
ASKED
By very keen buyers, at times—" Can
I buy cheaper at a Wholesale
House ? ”
We answer—" NO 1" WHY ?
Because we are the actual manufacturers. factory to wearer. No intermediate
Then our stock I. much larger, and our output coj greater, than 95 per cent, of the wholesale
Then we sell to the wholesalers. No house can supply rings lower than the actual makers.
Selected Sapphires,
1 Golden, 1 Blue,
£5 ss.
18ct. Gold Settings.
Selected Diamonds,
Extra Brilliancy,
£5 ss.
18ct. Gold Settings.
Exquisite Diamonds
and Pink Tourmaline,
&2 12s.
18ct. Gold Settings.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“G.Y.”: Your correspondents, “J.S.”
and “W.W.”, may be interested to know
that in these islands (New Hebrides) dyna-
mite is a regular trade article with the natives,
who are very fond of fish. Their method
of using it is to make a hole in a plug, insert
cap and fuse, varying from two to six inches,
according to the amount of pluck possessed
by the operator, and then tie tightly in paper
or plantain leaves, leaving only an inch of the
fuse showing, which is fired by means of a
fire-stick. Should the Kanaka lose his head
and throwaway the fire-stick, while retaining
the dynamite, his relations go in force —
accompanied by a Snider each—to the trader
who sold the dynamite and demand payment
for the death or mutilation, as the case may
be, of their dear relation. In three cases
which have come under my notice, the pay-
ment in case of death was three pigs ; for
the loss of half a face and one arm two
“man pigs.” and for the loss of a hand only,
“ two woman pigs.” Therefore it is cheaper
to kill the man right out. One gets more
/or rhis pigs. During the past seven months
two white men and one native have been
killed by hanging on to dynamite, and two
mor.e natives have lost various limbs from the
same cause. A few days ago a white trader,
accompanied by a Kanaka, went shooting
fish, and, just as the man raised his arm to
throw in the plug, the dinghy gave a lurch,
and the dynamite fell into the boat. The
rapidity with which the nigger got into the
water was only equalled by his rush to get
out of it after the white man had made a dash
for the lighted charge and thrown it over-
lf one goes shooting fish where
there is a good deal of dynamite used, a very
short fuse is necessary, as the fish swim away
as soon as it touches the water. Should, however,
there be very little dynamite used in any particu-
lar place, a good long fuse is best, for, though the
fish swim away at first, they afterwards return to
investigate, and cluster round thirsting for infor-
mation, which thirst “dinny” satisfies.
* * * *
“ Jan or ” : When the swaggie dumps
“Matilda” at the cocky’s back door and asks
for toil, that amiable anti-socialist looks hard at
the applicant’s boots, and bases his wage-offer on
their appearance—the worse the boots, the lower
the figure. If a bootless man happens along, as is
sometimes the case in Victoria, he is offered a
“ tucker” job; and a real good-natured cocky has
been known to throw in a pair of his own cast-off
“ crabs.”
* * * *
“Thickhead” : Savages don’t go bald
simply because they never cut their hair. Civilised
man cuts his hair say six times a year, which, at
an inch each time, would give 25ft. in 50 years.
Now Nature never intended a man’s head to grow
25ft. of hair. Hat-wearing has little to do with
the matter. Men of indoors-employment, who
only wear a hat for a couple of hours a day, are
often as bald as pumpkins, and stockmen, drovers
and men who sleep in their hats often have a
thick thatch. Civilised negroes cut their hair,
and go bald ; and wild ones don’t. Also, men of
the “ Beardy ” sect, who let their hair grow,
and twist it round their heads, and probably
never wash it, never lose it. Women don’t go
bald, as a rule, because they don’t cultivate their
scalp sufficiently to grow 25ft. of hair where 25in.
will grow naturally.
* * 4 »
“Duffer”: What eyes a fish-hawk must
have ! When fishing one day I caught a whiting
about 3in. long, and threw it up on the bank.
High in the air above was a fish-hawk —a mere
speck, just discernible—yet in less than a minute
that bird was eating my fish. They drop like a
stone to within a few feet of the ground, then
swoop on the fish. They never miss. Have seen
a 21b. fish carried for fully 200 yards by one of
these birds.
DR. F. F. MUECKE (who marries Miss Ada
Crossley this month).
I have been told that com-
plete immunity from mosquito-bite is enjoyed by
the colored hawksbill turtle-catchers at Lon"
Island (a hell for mosquitoes), Torres Straits?
These men are inveterate opium-smokers, and it
is supposed that the resultant elfects on the blood
gives them protection. It might be possible to
evolve from a basis of opium or nicotine a skin-
preparation deadly to the damnable little insect.
♦ * * *
V igilans : Met a man t’other day who
had walked from Arltunga (S.A.) to Port Darwin,
thence to Wyndham and Derby (W.A.), and
thought nothing of it. Carried on one occasion
2olbs. of flour and other tucker, besides his swag.
Had tramped 60 miles without water, and had
been 27 days without seeing a human being
How’s that for the white man in the tropics ?
KUBELIK , THE FAMOUS VIOLINIST,
AND HIS WIFE.
Australian hospitality is also sometimes
casual. Brother Ted went to see Tom. They had
not met for years. Ted walked unexpectedly up
asTom stood on the verandah, hands in pockets.
“ Ted, by ! ” cried Tom. “ You’re the last
7 —7 man I expected to see in the Mallee. Go
inside. The women’ll make a hell of a fuss of
you. I’m just off to look at the sheep.'’ Teel
went in, and was treated like a lord—driven here
and there and feasted. But he scarcely ever saw
Tom. At last he grew sick of this treatment, and
sought out Tom. “ Here,” cried he, “ I’m sick of
all this fuss the women are making. I’m
coming out with you to-day.” “Oh, do as you
well like, old boy,” replied Tom. “I don’t
care a cuss. Come along.”
* * * *
F. B. Smith, the ’Murkan evangelist now
in Sydney, says that there are three classes of
swearers—the ignorant, who swear as an aid to
conversation because short of words; the liar,
who thinks that the use of strong language will
help a weak case ; and the thoughtless, who swear
from habit. Classification very faulty. There
are others ; for instance, those who swear only
when they lose their temper, and those who never
swear except when hurt or greatly surprised.
* * tr *
“ Dyckolt ” : “ Chasselas, replying to
“A.P.R.” (B. 2/G/’O4), knows what he is talking
about when he says kurrajong is not the only
native tree on which cattle and sheep will thrive.
He justly mentions the she-oak (bullocks are par-
ticularly fond of she-oak, and prefer it to grass).
But he doesn’t go far enough, and forgets that
there are numbers of other native scrubs and trees
on which stock will thrive. Young mulga scrub
will fatten sheep, so will gidyea, while myall will
be rushed by both sheep and cattle. In ’97 I and
two mates were cutting down myalls for 1500
sheep on a Castlereagh river (N.S. W.) station.
We were seven weeks at it, and when the rain
and herbage came, our mob was fat. For days
they waited for the familiar sound of our axes,
turning up their neses at the green herbage !
Then there are leopard-wood, and quandongs, and
several others.
A.P.R. : Rats !” to that superior
person (B. 23/3/’O5) who can poison dingoes whole-
sale, when the rest of Australia cannot. In every
district of N.S.W. there are dingoes which cannot
be got at in any way ; and men who lose £3OO-
- of sheep every year (as many station-
holders do) are not likely to fail for want of hard
trying. I have myself been trying every kind,
strength, and solution of poison for 15 years, and
1 have found it very difficult to get dingoes.
* * * *
“Silly Billy” ; How do flying-foxes
drink : ? Have seen them when on the wing make
I dip towards water, and have heard a kind
of swish as of the animal’s muzzle along the
surface-then up again and the same manoeuvre
several times repeated.
* * * *
“ Prooshan ” : ’Twas under the bridge at
West Bourke. There had been a sudden thunder-
storm, and we had rushed there for shelter. Ho
was chiefly rags and grease, and we talked of the
old days of big cheques. “I was in Wilcannia
bout 87, ” he said, “when the rabbitin’ was in full
swing, an’ two blokes 1 knowed came in with a
cheque for 300 quid. They goes to the leadin’
pub and buys up all the champagne in stock—6o
bottles at £1 a bottle. Then they hires an old
horse and dray and gets the bellman to lead the
orse an ring his bell, an’ they breaks them bottles
of fi v.y. into a big tub, and serves it out in panni-
kins to the crowd. But I don't see that it done
em any good. They’re whalin’ now—an’ so
am I.”
HANKERING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bush bards sittin’ in town arm-chairs writes a heap of
blithering - rot
About sunrise in the mallee and early mornin’ rides,
Of thoroughbred stock ’orses and bush girls and a lot
Of poetic, Weedin’ idiocy besides.
And you’ve noticed maybe, cully, that the bush is always
callin’,
But they sits tight in the city and allows the bush to
yell,
While the paper’s splashed with grief-drops all the time
them blokes is bawlin’
Of the old days and the bright days—oh, the “copy”
pays ’em well.
They can have it all for my part, for, as far as I can tell,
What the parsons call the “ fleshpots ” is a-beck’nin’ me
to town ;
An’ I’m leavin’ jinglin’ bridles, glowin’ morns, and wattle
smell
With a cheque that I’ll endeavor to knock down.
Give me girls, an’ gaffs, an’ races—give me smokes, an
booze, an’ houses.
Blast the razor-backed old stock-horse 1 . . . Lot o’poet: y
in him !
Give my eyes a rest from moleskins—let ’em linger on
some blouses !
Give me lots o’ fun and frolic for my hundred lovely
“ jim.”
Them's the words I wrote in April. May is here, an’ I’m
in Sydney ;
An’ the girls, an’ gaffs an’ races got me down and took my
gonce.
I am thinkin’ there’s too many of the bloomin’ spieler
kidney
Waitin’ round to welcome bush blokes what has got a
little means.
P’raps the blokes as wrote the verses ain’t as ratty as I
reckon—
An’ the razor-backed old stock-horse ain’t a bad ’un as
prads go—
P’raps the sunrise ain’t so dusty, an’ the bush does some-
times beckon
To a man what’s born and reared there—it’s my pocket
tells me so !
M.L.
CLAUDE JRWELL.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Claude: One’s naughty and not particularly nice,
the other is too thin... .D.M.R.: Feminine clothing- wants a
light poetic hand in treatment. Your Pegasus treads all
over the chiffons with muddy feet Hie H.: “ Washing
Hay,” in its opening, goes over the same ground as a
published yarn by Hyson, who didn’t leave many good
crumbs to be picked up on the path Fosco : Theme
has earned an old age pension Jim : Hon’t feed your
Muse on pap....W.L.H. : Pretty and purposeless, like a
woman’s hat Geo. W. : Stiff and jerky... .R.M.E. :
Mere album verse.... Vulcan : Your remedy looks very
simple, until .you recall that the opium supplied to the
Northern blacks is mostly smuggled or “ opium charcoal ”
—the by-product of opium smoking Crux: Yarn has
no crux.... Glede : “Seekers” not dismal enough
8.8. : A sweet little sob, which has been sobbed a thousand
and one times... .J.A.B. : We haven’t any “dark and
chill ” October in this land. l)id you borrow your doggerel
from some English publication ?... .M.B. : “The Moon”
opens well, and comes to a lame and impotent end....
Box : Bulletin has twice condemned that sickly fariago
of concupiscence and cant, the “Sign of the Cross.”
After all, though, it is a natural enough mixture ; there's
a very narrow border line between erotic mania and rel gi-
ous mania B. :It would be absurd for the B. to argue
that Tatts. Sweeps “do good.” They don’t, and we know
they don’t. The argument for them is that they' supply
on reasonably honest terms the civilised craving for a
gamble. That the community would be better
without gambling is true ; that the community won’t
do without gambling seems also, unfortunately, true....
Political Poetaster : Your verse is rather shocking, but
Bent deserves it. He is even more deplorable than the
following :—•
M.F. : No, not the least ill-will. ...M.8,: Point has been
so much better handled by others Edgar H. : For that
class of satire very distinguished skill is needed
Dyspeptic : Fails in treatment E.N.S. : Part Ogilvie ;
part unutterable J.M.P. : Thin little thing H.V.T.:
Ali bumps and jolts and spasms.. ..H.K. : Labored and
ineffective satire... .P\D. : Too didactic and heavy....
The Mole: “Jeremiah” not worth the space. We like
our wails short and sharp J.T.B. : Rather too thin,
like the hair it’s all about Scotty (M.L.) : Wait till the
men have been tried. It’s not our business to presume
their guilt Eirani : Shows promise, but hot good
enough.... Ande : All too slim.... J.S.B. : Fails at the
post T.H.IL : Much too long a yarn for the interest...
Drifter : Too late in the day to chew over the incompe-
tence of British officers in the S’African war Dimples :
Barmaid fails... .G.B.A. : Conversation too stodgy....
Federal : (1) Subject anticipated. (2) Cashier will remit.
.... H.B.M. : Well, it wouldn’t be of enough general
interest to print in the paper. Write and give j our full
name and address, and we’ll reply privately Eloe :
Not a story, not a joke... Robt. F. : Interesting, but too
late now to traverse Calvin’s yarn Constance M. : Has
merit, but lacks technical skill, and is too long for us, in
any case G.P.D. : Decent doggerel only Crystal :
Inappropriate pen-name for such a confused and inac-
curate writer JosieS. : Both have deftness, but don’t
carry weight enough.... G.M. : Only of local interest
Simon : Such a beautiful Lilia deserves a better poem
than that Eloc. : Not up P.K. : Ditto Caspian :
Likewise.... Woodki: Let x equal the copy you send, y
the care you give it, and z the cheque you get. Then—
x_ X 2y = 2z.
2
....Humula: Yes; see instructions to contributors....
W.J.B. : Rather too splenetic throughout Australis:
Passed out. As a rule, only rejected MS. answered in
this column Spinifex : Thanks, please send D.G.J. :
Not enough Australian interest M.L. : There’s been a
weary dispute this side of the ocean on that thumb point.
Gladiatorial customs seem to have varied- Anyhow, The
Bulletin didn’t say that the thumb turned down meant
so-and-so ; it said that the artist intended that meaning....
C.B.T. :No ; rabbits often swim across rivers... .Ken H. :
Not. stuff enough in it Nymsie : “Elopement” lacks
life and spirit....J.A.D. : Patchy and unsatisfactory....
O’K. : Not O. K Caloola : If any of’em appear, cut
out and post to Bulletin accountant TJiy : Hasn’t
quality enough A.E.S. : We’ve already had that yarn.
....The Spaniard: Wholly conventional and undistin-
guished. . . .Nemo : Workmanship defective... .G.R.R: Too
“warm” towards finish Ossian : Gambling yarn
venerable Unsuitable : Glede, E.W.H., T.R.M., X.BA.
M.H.P., Ken H., Quill, Jay Pea, Leslie 8., W. H., A.J.B ’
T.F.H., Mars (as to verse), G.P.D.
A story told of Jap Admiral Togo as a
youngster in the British mercantile marine, goes
to show that a stoical brown heathen can be moved
by emotion to a strictly Christian form of utter-
ance. At the time when little Togo was a mid-
shipman aboard the Hampshire, he had hardly
begun to talk English in an ordinary way. The
ship—one of the Money Wigram line —was run-
ning from the Cape to Australia, and on this trip
it met a first-class gale. A heavy sea swept
away the deck-house where the midshipmen
had their berths. They were left homeless,- with
their personal belongings in a very vvrecky state.
After the storm had calmed down, the first m ite,
visiting the scene of desolation, found Togo squat-
ting amidst the ruins, and asked him how he liked
a life on the rolling deep. The unhappy foreigner
rolled his eyes in agony, and waxed eloquent,
“Nobunkee; no sleepee ; 1 die. I O, blanky
Money Wigram, damaridblastee !”
“ Gr.H.” gives his view on a subject about
which almost enough has been said :
Writers who condemn Tait’s management of Vic. rail-
ways seem to forget what the Kanuck was imported for.
Bent’s instructions to T.T., before lie started in, read
something like this : “ Make these blanky railways i>ay,
and to with sentiment.” And Ta t'has filled the
bill. Goods-trains don’t leave Spencer-street now with
about one-tenth of their proper load behind them. In-
stead, they haul such strings of cars as to look like
anacondas. Tait has Americanised our railways, and is
getting the last ounce out of staff and rolling-stock.
Responsible clerical officers toil in that big Spencer-street
building nowadays with their coats and vests off. There
was none of that before Tait came. Give him credit for
doing his best to make things batter for the working staff.
He has rowed with the Cabbage-Man more than once on
behalf of the men on the foot-plates, but Bent is a sort of
globular Omnipotence. The paragrnphists who sling so
many rocks at T.T. arc apparently the offspring of those
who ruined Dick Speight. R.S. was imported by the by-
gone Boomster crowd, and his instructions were exactly
the reverse of those given to the present boss. Speig-ht
was told to open up the country. He was instructed to
run railways anywhere and everywhere, and to blazes
with the expense. And, like his ultimate successor,
Speight did his work well. But, when the Boom collapsed
with a sickening thud, the men who denounced
Speight’s extravagance were the men who had
urged him to spill coin around by the dray-load.
The Age, cynically unscrupulous, and determined
to advertise itself at any cost, slew him. Syme
should have flayed the Gillies gang, for Speight was
only obeying his bosses. When Tait has been similarly
slang-whanged into oblivion, I expect that the Victorian
public will discover the true facts, viz., that Tait was
a first class manager and a fair man ; but that
Bent followed him up like a large, library-edition
Old Man of the Sea, and blocked every move that Tait
made for the benefit of the trallic-liandiers. Bent stands
or falls by the result of his railway administration ; and,
so that the returns show a substantial profit, he cares
little whether the staff works 10 hours or 1000 hours
without a spell, bet Bulletin paragraph i sfcs fire theijr
blue-metal at the real Sweater. Tait is all right, and, con-
sidering the respective ministries, is giving Victoria as
good a return for its money as Mathieson did.
MISS NELLIE STEWART (another old-
fashioned photograph).
War-correspondent Douglas Story, in his
book, “The Campaign with Kuropatkin,” con-
cerning the Russian officer :
As a student, the Russian staff-officer is a gentleman
and a soldier of rare intellectual attainment. He has
been allowed to follow his bent, has been stimulated in
the studj' of tongues, has been encouraged to investigate
the psychology of the people dwelling upon the borders
of the Czar’s dominions. A born linguist, among the
French he is a Frenchman, among the Germans he is a
German, even among the Chinese a Chinaman. . . . The
adaptability of the Russian is amazing ; the result of a
wide humanity and ready sympathy. The Russian is as
devout as was ever any Commandant of Boers, and as
scrupulous in the observance of his religion. His near-
ness to nature is at all times apparent; his faults and
his virtues are those of a strong race, of a man whose
blood runs warm in his veins. As a soldier, the Russian
officer is a strangely nervous fighter, a thoroughbred
pawing at tho starting point. His nerves are all a-tingle
his face flushed, his speech thick and voluble. There is
none of the steady calm of the British company officer •
but there is courage—plenty of it—dogged, as well as hot-
blooded. He loves a fight at.elose quarters, and it is sig-
nificant that in war time the- private goes about all his
business with his bayonet fixed. With all his excitability
the Russian officer is commendably reticent with respect
to the affairs of the war, and his own part
in them. There is no boasting, no despondency,
no unprofitable regret. He is content to do his duty as
he sees it, leaving the extrication of the forces from their
difficulties to those placed in authority over him
One’s general impression is, that the officers are a set
of great-bodied, big-hearted, good-natured schoolboys
sadly pestered by the stone-throwing of the small hoys
from a neighboring inferior, but rival academy. I have
not heard, in all these weeks of trial, one ungenerous
word of their enemy from a Russian.
Both gents and dames, pulpit and press,
Hailed Tommy king and prophet;
But when they him do now address,
’Tis in diction lit forTophet.
So the Deform League are swearing
That Tommy they will slay,
While Tommy keeps on saying,
“ All right, some other day.”
Bat Tommy has at length reneged
On all his bans and cusses ;
And where he should have sorely plagued
He only smiles and blesses.


An ingenious American has succeeded in
producing ii seedless-apple.
In Australia wo are doing our best to produce
the prineipless politician.
K’s a comfort to hear by
wblo that the Prince of
Wales’ condition is “ not
serious ’’—only a boil. .He
will have to continue eat-
ing his meals off the
mantelpiece for a while
yet, that’s all.
A FORLORN HOPE.
“Good-bye,” said
General Booth at Adel-
aide t.o the. pressmen.
\ “ I hope I will meet
jr you at the Throne of
r Grace, and when 1 do,”
lie added, “ I will ask
you, are you satisfied with
your life. You have asked
me the (juestion here. I
will ask you it there.”
TWO VIEWS OP THE TSAR.
Evangelist. Smith, by the
way, has made the as-
tounding discovery that large
numbers of unfortunates have
no other place to sleep but the
Syduey Domain, and the comic
preacher seems to extract a deal
of fun out of it, Well, we can’t
all be evangelists, and sleep at
first-class hotels.
'SALVATION AS SHE IS PREACHED. •
Comic Evangelist i “ Ha!. here 'we .are again! Come
to talk ’with you about the welfare of yer immortal
souls!” (Laughter.)
PREMIER OARRUTHERS’ CELE-
BRATED “BRAND”' CONTAINS
NO “SPIRIT.”
“ The brand of reform that he liked,”
said the Premier, “ was one which he
manufactured himself.”
RELIGION, WAR, HORTICULTURE AND A BOIL.


find t^T
7^
> Women bVe v® -^-v
Knowledge of- Wbet Socialism rne*i>s
till we ten If>im. <
)" li?e o\ Re*l tytijerll/ood by
/fte shr every
true hea.it.
Wdf Ate you
\ |ooKin for- my f*>r c
\ littie m*" .
\ - MolW!"
Gim Mg
4|W/'
Sx "When we e/f>k'r» fW"
\wflk me
lr,« Te *IW n S HT s
in IH >rC
X horrified
\®Vr y
\^ € I^Kriiora,,^^
/
- ! ' no —-
me i^° oK
%-M*^
We hoJ»a -for & „
j>lsst^br*n
Why noT es I’lbtfcno
l/myorrr) ?
C He^cr S
in 'loWn rfej find
•flj € club a |>!e*ymr
re o 4 erotic,
" lb jivy, Udics&gcwtle«jen >
v | beltjye in -fye Tie.'-"
C^ o|,J i °j' Comrr>rttt£ ,
' lie's mine! Hes mine,
%T will 'trsbfyci .. /
" Kolsin %*£ itf ,n
when iro lircd l*K® .
we % gjl in our •
oyr yJndiy rrieefinbs h
'never e*f«c+e4 is rewa/d lu4?e our astonishment"
'Hjen one -fine. morning whe»> 2**'— —/J “
DEFENCE OF THE MARRIAGE TIE AND PURITY OF THE ’OME.


A. SAUNDERS>or WEDDING PRESENTS. WATCHES. CLOCKS & JEWELLERY
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ First-class Solid Gold Half-hunting
Keyless WATCHES, Extra Heavy Cases,
hugh Grade J-plate Movement, Fully
Jewelled-No. 1, £i 4s; No. 2, £5 ss:
Ko. 3,18 ct Gold Case, £0 (Is
Guaranteed 3,4, and 5 Years.
Solid Silver, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS
\
>2 A. 9
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Solid Gold Floral NECKLET, Set with Pure White Pearls, £3;
15ct Gold, Extra Quality Pearls, £5 ss, in Silk-lined Case.
Other Styles, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £l7 10s, £2O, £25.
A. SAUNDERS.
Dames' Hign uratie Keyless WATCHES.
Solid Silver Hunting Case, Beautifully
Chased, 255, 30s, £2. Higher Grade, £2
10s, £3. Ladies’ Black Watches, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s, 255. Our Nurses’ Special Watch,
255. we Specially Recommend.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BOOT,
CHAIN, and
PIN, 6s 6d;
Metal Pin,
6s 6d,
Also Heart,
Anchor, Bell,
Cross, o r
Wishbone.
A. SAUNDERS.
OJuld 3-bar Pearl and Ruby or Sapphire Set
Scroll BROOCH, 21s.
„ A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird CHAIN and Pearl Set Spray
BROOCH, 255; 15ct. Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band RING.
12s 6d, 15s; 15et
Gold, ?os, 255; 18ct
Gold, 255, 30s, £2.
ladies’ Long Gold MUFF CHAINS, in Every
Style and Pattern Made, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4,
£4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
Necklets to Match, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255;
15ct Gold, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Double
Buckle RING, 17s
6d; 15ct Gold, 30s:
18ct Gold, £2.
, A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 3-bar BROOCH, Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £2 10s;
Larger Diamonds, £1 10s.
/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pearls
arid Ruby, or
Sapphire Se'
SCARF PIN
10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Fashion Gold Half-chased Japanese Bamboo
BRACELET, with Safety Chain, £3;
Smaller, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Peace Offering Bird DUB BROOCH
with Enamelled Leaf, 17s 6d;
15ct Gold. 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Half-
hoop 5 Double-cut
Diamonds, £5;
Larger Diamonds,
£6, £7 10s, £B,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2 Dia-
mond Sparks and
Ruby, SOs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PENDANT,
Pearls and Ruby
or Sapphire,
15s> 6d.
/NOTE n
In Remitting
make your Postal Notes.
Post Office Orders, or
Cheques Payable to
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Heart
Floral Forget-me-
N o t BROOCH,
Pearl and Tur-
quoise Set, £2 2s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Butter-
cup, Set Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond, £3, £4, £5.
A. LAUNDERS.
18ct Gold 5 Opal
RING, £2 10s;
Larger Opals,
Gold Band Name BRACELET, in 3 Sizes
above), and 40s (wider); 15ct Gold, £3, ’
255, 30s (a 3
£3 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bar Good Wishes Federal Flat?
BROOCH, 15s.
Watches
Guaranteed
for 3,4, and 5
Years.
Presentation
Watches
a Speciality.
/
s
%
£5.
£5
Rotherham High Grade Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATUHJES, Kxtra Quality Movement,
Compensation Balance, Fully -Regulated
and Adjusted, £5, £5 10s'; Superior
Quality Movement, £6. The
Utmost Satisfaction Guaranteed.
In Key, £3 15s, £4,
£4 10s, £5, £6, £6 10s,
£7. Solid Gold. £l5,
£l7, £2O, £25.
V
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Diamond BRACELET, 3 Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, with Safety Chain, £5;
Diamond and 2 Rubies, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Crescent and Spray Pearl Set
BROOCH, £5 10s.
A Host Effective Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Ribbon
BROOCH, Pearls and
Turquoise Set, £2 10s.
Gold-mounted
Bloodstone Seal
PENDANT, 20s;
Similar Styles,
15s, 17s 6d, 255.
A. Saunders’
Full Catalogue
will show you
150 pages
of
Fine Stock
instead of just one.
It is
worth seeing.
Write for it.
Posted Free.
sdg
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold 2 Heart
Opals, 3 Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds, £4 10s.
9ct n soii a n Ue p«M D “ m S RINGS and severs,
Extrfw GoId > 7s Cd ’ 10s ; 15ct Gold, 15s-
i-xtra Heavy, 2 55; 18ct Gold, 20s: Extra
Heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. 455.
Latest Gold Bar Amethyst Set
ISitOUCH, 15s.
NICKEL,
20s
A. SAUNDERS.
Non-magnetic, Strong, Reliable
Knockabout WATCHES.
Our Unrivalled Dust and Water Proof
Cases, 20s. London Lever, 255; Extra
Jewelled 80s; Cheaper Lines, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s. Guaranteed. All Watches Exchanged
if not Satisfactory.
SILVEE,
30s.
n ~ D A SAUNDERS.
earl Set Bird and Spray BROOCII
17s 6d. ’
The Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Oval and Bar
LINKS, 20s: loot Gold,
355.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Pearl Set Star
PENDANT or BROOCH,
£5 10s; with Diamond in
Centre, £7 10s.
Very Fashionable.
„ . A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold CHAINS. Single or Double, £2
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5; 15ct Gold, £5
£6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Solid Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
18ct Gold Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond RING, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Price to Size of
Diamond.
Ci
A. S VUNDERS.
18ct Jold, i Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds and 2 Sap-
phires or Rubies,
£7 10s; All Dia-
monds, £l2 10s.
Sight and
Seeing!
Do you
know anyone
troubled about their
Eyes?
Tell them to write
for our new No. 2
Home Eye Test
Chart.
Posted Free, too!
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Half-
hoop, 6 Pure
Double - cut Dia-
monds, £2 5;
Smaller, £lO, £l2
10s, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold - mounted in
Enamelled Colours,
Sydney P.O. or Town
Hall CHARM, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 4 Heart-shaped Opals BROOCH, Red
Stone Centre, Pearl Set Scrolls, 355.
15ct Gold HEART,
Set Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £2,
£2 10s, £3; Ruby
or Sapphire, 25s
and 30s. Price
as to Size of
Diamond.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Spray BROOCH, Set with Pearls
and Turquoise, £2 10s.
A Tasty Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
Waltham WATCHES, Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Cases, Extra Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5; Gold Patent
Cases, £4 4s, £5 ss; Solid Gold, £7 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25.
Guaranteed for 3, 4, 5, and 6 Years.
SILVER,
SOLID
£2 10s
GOLD
CASED,
<£4 4s
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Solid Gold Opal
LINKS, 30s; 15ct Gold,
,£2 10s. Extra Strong.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER and OPTICIAN,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-ST. (OPP. RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY,


or*
sdg
WALKING
P
MOTOR
ING
s
50
Browiv
Hide
SQncffbr
Cafa/bgsie
S£
The World’s Wonder.
sd
5 BEAUTIFUL ARTICLES for
ONLY 7s. 6d., viz. :
1 Gentleman’s R. Gold Albert.
1 Gentleman’s R. Gold Set
Links and Studs.
1 Lady’s R. Gold Muff Chain.
1 Lady’s R. Gold Bracelet.
1 Lady’s R. Gold Brooch.
This genuine parcel will be sent
POST FREE to any part of the
Colony on receipt of money or
postal order for 7s. 6d.
If not satisfied money will be returned, “a®
This offer is only to advertise our firm.
THE BRITISH NOVELTY COY.,
Box 343, G.P.0., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Box 918, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
t IX.
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
62-58 Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and CO.,
Brisbane.
Catalogues Free.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM roil Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
' Of course you have System
in vour office. BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER !
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St„ Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
MURRELLS & BECKER
are the largest makers of TRAVELLING
GOODS in the Commonwealth
360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
near Stock Exchange ;
212 EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
Write for Catalogue B.
Price given to carry any article to your address.
NERYOUSNESS.
iaOSS of Eh.SEGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS oi SELF
CURB, -will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d. ; Posted, 8d
THE £5OO BOOK.
ANDY’S SELECTION
By STEELE RUDD .
I 1
With 40 Illustrations by the leading:
Black and White Artists of Australia.
PRESS UNANIMOUS THAT THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS EVER PUBLISHED.
To show the confidence with which the public regard STEELE RUDD’S
future, it may be mentioned that the purchase-money for the rights of
“SANDY’S SELECTION" amounted to £5OO, which is a record
price for any book of fiction written by an Australian and published locally.
Price 6j- / Post free sd. extra.
“As a lively, crisp statement of the life of an Australian selector, it rings true.”—The Daily Telegraph.
“ ‘ Sandy’s Selection ’ will be read with interest by the many admirers of this promising author.” —The Sydney
Morning Herald.
“ You can’t do better than to fill yourselves up with the adventures of Sandy.”—The Queensland Grazier.
“ The. reader will laugh almost to exhaustion over the absurdities presented, but he will understand that
there is something beneath the fooling.”— Melbourne Leader.
“ Lionel Lindsay and other artists have contributed a number of illustrations as laughable as the text.’’—The
Australasian.
“We heartily recommend the book to young and old. Many a hearty laugh will result from reading it.” —The
Tasmanian News.
“‘Sandy’s Selection’ does ‘Steele Rudd’ credit, and is a worthy successor to his earlier books.”—The
Bulletin.
“The book should have a record sale, and will only serve to whet the public appetite for more such readable
writings from the same author.” — Sydney Wool and Stock Journal.
“These sketches make absolute, ‘Steele Rudd’s’right to the title of leading humorist of Australasia.”—
Christchurch Times.
“ A fine piece of descriptive writing ; every line of it a sketch of human thought, view, and feeling, bold,
forceful, concrete, and it stands on the same plane as the work done by Phil May.”—The Queensland Grazier.
“ ‘ Sandy’s Selection ’ is a book to buy, not only for the fun wrapped up in the pages, but for the germs of
truth so well set forth.”—The Brisbane Herald.
“ Among the writers who have done for Australia what Bret Harte did for California is ‘Steele Rudd,” whose
pictures of country life are humorous and truthful.” — Auckland Star.
“ The way in which the live stock on the selection is made to act in pantomimic harlequinade adds much to
the broad humor of the narration.” — The Melbourne Age.
“ ‘ Sandy’s Selection ’is worth reading. It is smart, witty and amusing.”— New Zealand Mail.
“ The name of the author is a sufficient guarantee that it is well-written.”— Australian Pastoralist.
N.S. W. BOOKSTALL CO., 861 George St., Sydney.
ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
W. DUNKLING,
THE JEWELLER,
Watchmaker & Silversmith,
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT FOR
WALTHAM WATCHES.
FREE. —The best and most complete Catalogue
published in Australia of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods posted free on application.
\
■s,
/
No. 446.
GENT'S STERLING SILVER HUNTING
KEYLESS WALTHAM WATCH,
Compensation Balance, Fully Jewelled, Extra Heavy
Case. Specially made for the Australian climate.
Guaranteed in writing for 3 years. Post Free to any
part of Australia—
-45/-
"Vt '*
BALSAMIC
FOR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
COUCHS, COLDS,
CONSUMPTION.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERS.
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price 6d., Poet Free.
From Coombe Lodge, Peckham, London, S.E., England
ME BALLET GIRL
'--r'-M
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, 1s
The Life, Adventures
and lonfesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froo, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Don't
waste time in
experimen ting.
Thirty Years '
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
£ungTontc
to be the WORLD'S CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can ba obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Uany
Lives,
ItHEI
UEAF
By using the Wilson Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
J tressing head noises write
| for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress-Star Novelty Co.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melb.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by maii in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address i HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
INDIGESTION,
Neuralgia,
Headache,
Constipation
V
CURED
BY
FISHER’S
rHosniHiiE
Five Drops in Water after
Meals is the Greatest Aid
to Digestion known.
It takes away a sour taste in the mouth, and
makes the breath sweet and pleasant when taken
half an hour before breakfast.
An Absolute Cure for Indigestion,
Headaches, Constipation, Neural-
gia, Brain-Fag, and Rheumatism*
All Chemists, 1s per Bottle.
Four Times the Quantity, 2s. 6d.
OBTAINABLE AT-W. H. Soul and Co.,
Pattinson and Co. (all Branches), Anthony
Hordern and Sons, and All Chemists.
It Is the GREATEST OF ALL NERVE
and NEURALGIC TONICS.
Tram Guards & Drivers
Use It Freely.
«
WONDERFUL TESTIMONY.
Mr. THOMAS FORSYTH, of Ash-
field, writes and declares on oath the
following 1
“ I suffered from acute inflammation of
the stomach, with a burning pain. My
tongue got a thick coating over it, and I
constantly suffered from nausea. Why,
I used to be almost constantly vomiting.
I consulted two doctors in Ashfield for
years without getting relief. But in
three weeks FISHER’S PHOS-
FHERINE completely cured me. I
am Noble Grand for the Loyal Ashfield,
M.U.0.0.F. I have been in the Lodge
for 18 years. Most of the members know
of my illness. Five to ten drops of
FISHER’S FHOSPHERINE al-
ways takes away a sour taste in the
mouth and keeps my stomach in regular
order. Let everyone know of my case.”
«.
Fresh and Potent. Prepared Daily.
Easily Taken .
An Ideal Medicine, superseding
awkward Pills and heavy Drugs,
securing Perfect Regularity,
Insist on being served with
FISHER’S
Post Free from the
PHARMACY, 337 GEORGE ST.
(Opp. G.P. Office).


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
You’ve been thinking about getting some-
thing to prevent your hair from falling for some
time now. In the meantime your hair has con-
tinued going from bad to worse. Why not act ?
Capilla Hair Tonic has worked wonders on other
people’s hair—why not let it work wonders on
yours ? All chemists and stores sell Capilla at
2s. 6d. a bottle.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps, as good for women as
for men. Buy bottles with wrappers intact. Get
what has been known for 70 years. Don’t be
deceived. Get Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
Mr. S. B. SHARP, Bonaparte, lowa, January
19, 1899, writes: —“My wife became very hoarse, and
ENTIRELY LOST HER VOICE. For two months I tried
all the doctors in the neighbourhood, but they did her
no good. ONE BOTTLE OF JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURED HER.”*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R GENNERT, 89 C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
ggLAjg
GO TO HBLT-
I<i()LANI> for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good (tamps, send te
Fred. Hagco,
FO.REiurN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists grata
POLITICAL
POINTS
Johannesburg was prophetically named.
It is now truly John’s town.
It’s not an anti-Socialist party, but an
anti-suicide party that Mr. G. H. Reid leads.
The erstwhile rabidly Jingo Melbourne
Age begins a fierce exposure of the Boer war job
with this :
The wretched story of unabashed cupidity which has
peopled the Rand with Chinese is probably one of the
most shameless of modern times.
The S.A. Government wants someone to
put ice on its head while negotiating for the pur-
chase of private estates under the Closer Settle-
ment Act. In several instances it has paid more,
privately and at auction, than the same estates
were Under offer for to outside people.
A London correspondent :
Federal Hansard is not available here, nor the Federal
statutes, nor the decisions of the High Court! Westralian
Agent-General -James has tried to remedy this crying
disgrace by getting such publications for his office. But
at present no information at all in regard to Common-
wealth matters is available in London.
Makers of base coin should have the
sympathy of Melb. Argus in their rejoicing over the
fact that the Commonwealth is not going to coin
its own silver from new designs. It looked like
another attempt at a gross interference with
private enterprise.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners’ new wool
rates, which took effect on March 1, reduce the
charges on scoured and increase them on greasy
wool. The rates will have the good effect of
causing much more of the wool-scouring to be
done in the interior.
“Wrest the apple trade from Tasmania,”
says the provincially-minded Carruthers, at
Mudgee. “ Want a waistcoat ? ” asks Carruthers.
“Nothing easier—cut up your coat, and make
one.” But not a word about wresting the building
of locomotives from the foreigner.
“P.D.” : Reasons why Mr. Denny, M.P.
(S.A.), is being opposed by the Labor party at the
forthcoming elections are that he was one of those
who votod for the Land Grab Railway Steal.
Also he is pledged to the capitation grant and in
many other matters takes the Tory attitude.
Kyabram (Vic.) has just discovered that it
is a sufficiently important place to have a ceme-
tery of its own. It seems to have only now found
out that the Kyabramapootra is dead. The
deceased ’pootra has reached its birthplace at
last, after poisoning all the rest of the State.
If Australian flannel, too, is adulterated,
there is a simple remedy for the fraud : inspect
the Australian flannel-builder’s mills and legisla
tively compel him to label liis stuff as what it
actually is. Then absolutely shut out the foreign
defrauder-—you can’t inspect his mills or pass laws
that will bind him.
“ S.S.” : One of the estates the Vic.
Government seems to have determined on buying
is the Mt. William, near Ararat. The estate is to
be used for closer settlement, and the price men-
tioned is half a million. It is, much of it, old-
time mining land, and not at all suitable for the
purpose. Who are the experts who advise this
“bargain”?
Without more Protection to help new fac-
tories into life, the outlook for the N.S.W. coal
trade grows steadily gloomier. Newcastle’s
exports for the first three months of the year were
only 608,129 tons, as against 668,479 tons last year,-
notwithstanding that shippers are scouring the
world for markets. They are at present struggling
for an opening in Canada.
While the Adelaide Scottish Regiment
was kicking up a shindy because the Customs
Department didn’t see eye to eye with it re duties
on imported kilts, tartans, and other fripperies,
the Melbourne “Scotchies” were quietly helping
along Australian industry by having their tog-
gery made at a local manufactory. Their reward
comes in the fact that—as the men unanimously
agree—the locally-produced uniforms have pioved
satisfactory in every way.
N.S.W. had a great harvest again this
past 5ea50n —16,463,680 bushels of wheat, accord-
ing to acting-Statistician Hall’s estimate. The
United States’ harvest in 1904 was 2,457,480,000
bushels of corn, 542,399,000 bushels of wheat, and
894,595,000 bushels of oats, not to go into details
about rye, buckwheat, barley, and other things.
These, make the N.S.W. figures blink. But it
only ".hows what it means to the farming business
to have a big manufacturing population to sell
things to.
The Employers’ Federation, at the Adel-
aide conference, passed a series of enthusiastic
resolutions condemning the tyranny of unionism,
and upholding the rights of the non-union working
man and the sanctity of freedom of contract.
Then, having enumerated a platform of Tory-
encrusted doctrines, the Employers’ Federation
passed a final resolution denouncing each and
every employer who would refuse to join the
employers’ union to carry out this programme, as
a blackleg of the blackest dye. Also it howle 1
dismally at employers who dared to advertise in
The Bulletin, suggesting that that pernicious
publication should be boycotted. Fat’s notion of
“freedom of contract,” like most of his other
notions, is rather lop-sided.
Palmerston North was the first Maoriland
town to adopt the unimproved land value tax for
local rating, and after seven years’ trial the town
clerk was recently asked to set out the results.
Almost immediately after the Act was adopted,
absentee owners cut up large areas for sale. In
other words, the absentee decided that it was a
socialistic place, and unworthy of his confidence,
so he “withdrew his capital”—which is another
way of saying that he gave up his little game of
sitting down tight and waiting for a favorable
opportunity to bleed people who wanted to use
the land.
Talking to the Employers’ Federation Con-
ference at Adelaide last week, one of the great
Smith family, president of the central council,
enunciated the Fatman’s policy for the Common-
wealth. “It is absurd to think,” he declared,
“that immigration can be restricted into this
country. Was it likely that the world was going
to let them monopolise this great country ? ” He
then declared that if he had his way he would im-
port labor, “colored or white” ; and his admiring
colleagues immediately elected him president for
another year. In other words, the Eatman’s pre
scription to lay the spectre of armed invasion by
the Asiatic, is to make Australia a present to the
yellow horde at once.
“ San Remo ” writes—perhaps not more
strongly than the subject demands :
If the Japs ever reach Australia, it will be through
the connivance and assistance of our “Motherland.”
Look what England is doing- for the Japs in British
Columbia, where a servile Dominion Government sacii-
fices its own children (the S(ate’s) in the (alleged) interests
of Britain. Look what the “Motherland” has done for
the Chow in S’Africa. What has she done, what is she
doing, for “The White Race”? Let White Australia’s
backbone relax, and we shall see—and sorrow. But
thank Heaven, our National spirit is spreading and
strengthening.
British Royal Commission on the £ ‘ Taff
Yale ” decision considers B. R. Wise’s Bill, intro-
duced to N.S.W. Parliament, Nov., 1903, “by far
the most practical effort to relieve the difficulties
created by that decision,” and probably that
measure will be recommended for adoption by the
British Parliament. The tribute to the Australian
is the greater because, before that measure had
been brought under its notice, the Commission had
been spending some time in discussing the best
means to relieve trades unions of the disabilities
following the Taff Yale decision.
“Shaker” : It is time to put an end to
the comedy of errors for which the use of the word
“ Socialism ”is responsible. Surely the value of a
word is in direct proportion to its capacity to ex-
press precisely and convey to the person addressed
the meaning of the speaker (or writer). Judged
by that standard, the word “Socialism ” is a mis-
chievous impostor, for scarcely two people seem
to mean exactly the same thing when using it.
Therefore, I propose that a brand-new name be
invented for the particular brand of Socialism
affected by the Australian Labor party, and that
it shall be so constructed that it will be impossible
to confound it with anything else.
The Freetraders got little satisfaction from
Mr. C. E. Harrison, a Ballarat tailor, who wrote
to the Tariff Commission objecting to higher!
duties, and was forthwith invited to give evi
dence. He said :
Tweeds were produced more cheaply now than in the
days of sweating, because men receiving high wages pro-
duced more, and new machinery had been introduced.
As long as an employer gets cheap labor he will not look
round for improved machinery.
Finally he suggested a 50 per cent, duty on tweedy
invoiced up to 2s. a yard, 40 per cent, between 2s.
and 2s ._ 6d., and 30 per cent, above that price.
And this was the man who had originally objected
to increasing the duties !
The Employers’ Federation has discovered
that the Arbitration Act scares capital from
putting itself into new machinery and plant.
Well, why hasn’t it done it in Maoriland, where
Arbitration has been in force for years? The
lately-published “ Statistics for 1903 ” gives these
figures :
Materials. Buildings. Plant.
1890 .. ..£1,483,902 ..£2,491,189
1895 .. £3,285,247 .. 1,743,073 .. 2,988,955
1900 .. 7,399,698 .. 2,419,803 .. 3,826,574
Capital had 80 years without Arbitration in which
to turn itself into machinery, plant, and factory
buildings, and it did it to the extent of only
£3,975,091; but in the next 10 years, with Arbi-
tration and all the other horrors of “socialistic
legislation” at work, £2.291,286 was added, ex-
clusive of much more that was put into State
enterprises. Either Australian Capital is a very
timorous creature compared with that of Maori-
land, or the Australian federated employer is
talking rubbish.
Max Hirsch, the whirlwind
of faked fiures and misquotations,
was up before the Tariff Commis-
sion the other day, bringing with
him some alleged Victorian flannel
(supplied by he wouldn’t say
whom, made be wouldn’t say
where), and with it a certificate
that it was 70 per cent, cotton.
Hirsch was horrified, and to
chairman Quick, who asked what
they were asked to deduce, said
that the State should not help an
industry which went in for such
things. Qn the same grounds,
when a baby is so thin that,tucks
have to be made in its clothes, its
mother should sternly refuse to
give it any nourishing food.
Chamberlain, in comment on
the speeches of Campbell-Banner-
man and co., the other week :
What they denounce in Opposition
they will condone when they come into
office. They will accept what they
execrated.
A truism indeed ! And the game
is what the players make of it,
and the players are what the
game makes them. Every old
politician, at any rate, is a har-
dened humbug. In some cases,
he has an exceptional Gladstonian
capacity for humbugging himself—
for persuading himself, sst La-
bouchere said of Gladstone, that
the ace he lias carefully concealed
up his sleeve was really placed
there by the Almighty.. As a
rule, the hardened old party-poli-
tician knows himself for a hum-
bug, and naturally becomes as
mean and vain-glorious a fellow as
any other professional mummer
who performs on a public stage,
and struts and bellows and ‘Avorks
the press ” to get wrorable.notices.
A N.S.W.. r epresentative atx
the anti-Arbitration Employers’
conference in Adelaide sighed for
the days when the employers
mounted the wool-drays, drove
them through the streets of Sydt-
ney, and were stoned by the
crowds —he forgot to mention that
the Biot Act was hiecuped, and
the streets cleared by men with
drawn swords, and every third
man had a baton hidden in his
clothes, and fire-insurance policies
were suspended. It’s just as well
to know what the men who want
to abolish the Arbitration Adi
sigh to put in its place.
The retirement of Malcolm
M‘Eacharn from Melbourne City
Council caused a quite lively con-
test for the vacant seat. Mr.
Frank Davies, of Gordon and
Gotch, tried conclusions with Mr-
Charles Atkins, the pushful presi-
dent of the Chamber of Manu-
factures. Collins-street on the
day of the election was brightened
by the smiles of the rival candi-
dates. Even a non-voter could
reckon on getting a smile.
Davies, being the more genial
smiler, gained a popular victory,
but Atkins scored a thousand
votes.
“ Viking ” points out in the
D.T. that if the Australian Labor
party is socialist in the sense of
the “ Internationale ’’—one of the
strongest of the socialist bodies
in the world—it must drop a
White Australia and all other
national ideas. Which is true
enough as an argument, and only
makes it clearer that the Labor
party, strictly speaking, isnt a
Socialist party, though some of its
aims are socialistic.
The borrowing, policy of Australian
Governments is based on Artemus Ward’s advice :
“ Be virtuous and happy;,and try to live within
your means—even though you have to borrow the
money to do it with.”
Griffith and Allen, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne —(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
WANTED, A STRONG MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Donald Mackinnon, leader of the third party to
the X ictorian Parliament, in reply to a question as to
whether he was in favor of abolishing the Upper House,
said that he had no very strong opinions one way or
other. —Daily paper.
We are weary, friend Mackinnon, of the man with weak
opinions—
We are weary of the wobbler with the undecided mind;
We are hunting high and low, sir, through our broad and
brown dominions
For a man with strength and reason underneath his facial
rind I
We are looking for a leader with opinions made of granite.
We are tired of men of putt3’, and we look for one of grit;
We have had enough of Yes-No, and we hereby curse and
ban it,
And we give the neuter notice that it’s time for him to
quit.
Poor, debilitated spooklets of the order wish3 r -wash3 r
Rubber-minded office-seekers, pun}' puppets of the press
Reeling off their tabby speeches and their perorations
boshy—
Oh I for one man, strong and able, filled with grit and
earnestness !
G. H.
BALLAD OF THE POSTULATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Speaking at the Glebe (N.S.W.), the Chief Secretary, Mr. Hogue, laid down, as a fundamental
postulate, not merely the sacredness of individual rights, but the paramount importance of defending
them.” — Daily paper.
m
11je TWJajijentdJ lodulaile way sl&lKuw
. nb and down
IK batK was stiff, ils "fail WAsstraiebr if*
I Wore an Awful frown, "
B If roared, “lAm tire j}rbf>erlie of Mijlek
Hogue , .
My buyneiy iylb njMticsJe each OocialiylTt,
KoQue; i
lam A sav'ace crojvWlween crocodile {
Aid ifiooK; *
My bite njoyf" i/enonjou^—Djerey f>oiym m )
iljAn 15e Axiorrj A dreadful l
I'm dryer titan Ife R/f> by /es-K(o\
Reid y J/
I'm "times move mercilejy %n jaruat or (\
Tm iorrw for'lfie Socialist" w !) o nr '« me Af Hr jk
itoK.” hi, 1 h rhh
'Jije riglifc, of mdividualy ,sAys M r Ho?ue to
Are "sac-red As Jemyalem, So guard "t{«iri
11 75 CA ow *^ , .
rje sheens ab njy f<V'gvfor me rTyormrro
, (I .
1+“ 1} & w tjenecr I yi&n or
Wfyen fjogue ljold} Jbrffi fo ir?|
And dont beoble sbidder wljen I nmf> /
I'o&r & rata*" _ //
b ,rc S A 1o bfoa trje Wilb 4 ' or 7g. illtciT / I
bole,. ( y\
Cee wliiyy I scare and all me
Labor crowd - 0
ft njaKes a S( artfer in (tie hall when I
And loud; •*
W, I "ftjirsf ld oeiltjer itjaul
rjor bite 0
A "tried and broved Peformer or a sworn Carrutt)-
. ersite ' i,
lor Mi S fer Ho E iub Ijas "tutored me —be fearnt" rny
leSSoo we IP,
I Know it 'S sacrilege fo a
"Swell""
lije righly of individuals Are nofffrjeijAced by
men
Vl]o We&r Hje vary oj* >
—^
le loyfulately and
down,
Ik, bact; iy yftf, ig fail iy Strait, if wears a
dreadful -frown
If And howly l/Ke all Ifie fiendy wtjo sfofe Uje.
of H—ft,
really no one needs to fear fs faralyying^
B-S made of wav &'S oi 'f> - fljeyd "tumble
,Ouf -firyf bite-,
Its more spooK "Itjan Crocodile-ity moytly wind
And yicile
A Sudden KicK would ferjorale its -flimsy <"Ard
f board ribs— \
Twould fowl ifyelf to fragment's ifif"s"tS,il v/ere.
yr "tawirned writ, S<*uiby!
/ 111 sborf/tIJTy j>recioi(s lostulates An Automatic-
y/ rogue •■
Its A cljeaf and nayly jUmfing-ja'-K Controlled by
Its only ffjeje low wlesKm folK Wfjoje scljeoiej
Ve dangerous-
% k> &<> Ife />M-
" ! Ini Sly, lm UjJoSnuJf, /in Cufo *<> /filler
fiofcue.-
Iv/eA^mf"lßaL (j* vesDs w/ji/g C4n never
| be a rogue ! ,j
.Jimmy Hogue;
Cant thenvey


If, for the EASTER HOLIDAYS, you are
OFF TO THE MOUNTAINS
or any other place where your principal enjoyment will be in long rambles or shooting
excursions, be very careful to PUT YOUR FEET INTO COMFORTABLE
BOOTS—Boots that are strong enough to stand walking over rough, rocky ground.
If you don’t be careful of this your trip will be spoiled.
You can be assured of an enjoyable trip in this
NVH0V11V0
BOOT
24/6
Post and Duty Free,
INCLUDING W.A.
DESCRIPTION—Fine French
Calf, or Tan Willow Calf, or
Tan Russia Calf—all at
the same price— 23/6
POST FREE, 24/6
A
ORDER
A PAIR
TO-DAY!
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George Street, Sydney.
The CALLAGHAN STY LE-BOOK sent Post Free on
application.
Tumor on the Spine
and Kidney Trouble
Removed by
VITADATIO
A Remarkable Recovery I
llth June, 1904.
Dear Sir, —About fifteen years ago my back was struck
by a piece of scaffolding, which caused a severe bruise,
and eventually a tumor formed right on the spine. It
grew larger and larger. I saw my doctor, and he told me
that the growth would have to be cut out. I declined to
undergo the operation, and went on for some years, the
tumor steadily growing larger the while. Then I began
to suffer from weakness of the bladder and kidneys. I
was getting worse gradually, till blood commenced to
come away. I was very much alarmed, and when telling
a friend about it he strongly advised me to take VITA-
DATIO for the bladder and kidneys. I acted on his
advice, and after a time the bleeding ceased, and I got
quite well. During the time I was taking VITADATIO I
was greatly surprised to find the tumor getting smaller,
until it entirely disappeared. I took the remedy only
for weakness of bladder and kidneys, and never for a
moment thought that it would cure the tumor. I am
happy to say that I am now in the best of health, thanks
to VITADATIO. I freely give you this testimonial, and
can with confidence recommend VITADATIO to any person
suffering as I did.
Yours respectfully,
GEORGE MARRIOTT.
Acre-place, off Malvern road, Malvern.
1 have pleasure in substantiating my father’s testimony.
GEORGE MARRIOTT Jun.
For further particulars ,
S. A. PALM Eli,
Head Office: 439 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Conn ell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Missing Friends.
WILL A. G. CHAMBERS, of Warminster,
England, who returned to Australia
12 years ago, please communicate with his
people.
Black and White.—l was so tired this
morning that had it not been for the ever-blessed
Scrubb’s Ammonia in my bath Ido not believe I
should have been able to get up till night. It is
wonderful stuff, and would waken the Seven
Sleepers, while it is altogether pleasing, too, in its
effect. I believe it has various advantages besides
this one. Once I took a stain out of a dress of
mine with it, a feat every other condiment had
failed to accomplish. I remember, too, that
Julia confided in me that she owed her fine com-
plexion to its influence in her hand-basin, but
then she used it in combination with Scrubb’s
Antiseptic Skin Soap. I do not know why I
chronicle these facts, but I am grateful to Scrubb
for having wakened me up, for I am just in time
to attend a lunch party, where I am to wear a
new gown contrived out of various remnants
snatched at the January sales.*
Legal Notices.
RIEUSSET (Stephen Theodore and Matthew
James) are requested to communicate with
the Executors of Anne Haedy, deceased, care of
Messrs. Wing & Bade, 1 Gray’s Inn Square,
London, W.C.
IN the HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE (Chan-
cery Division).—Mr. JUSTICE HARWELL.— 1904, S.
3,9o7.—Between ARTHUR BINGLEY SPAWFORTH
Frederick William Humble, and William Scholefield the
younger, Plaintiffs, and GEORGE ABERCROMBIE
HASKEW, Algernon Osmond Miles, the trustee of the
property of John McMillin, a bankrupt, and John James
McMillin, Defendants. To the above-named defendant,
GEORGE ABERCROMBIE HASKEW, take notice that
this action was, on the 19th October, 1904, commenced
against you, and that on the 18th January, 1905, a con-
current writ for service upon you in Australia was duly
issued, and that the plaintiffs, by their writ of summons,
claim :
(1.) A declaration that under a deposit with the
plaintiffs by the above-named John McMillan of a mortgage
to him executed by the defendant, George Abercrombie
Haskew, and dated the sth August, 1881, of that
defendant’s share and interest in certain funds in Court
to the credit of a cause, Haskew v. Downs, 1874, H. 41,
and in all other the estate and effects of Richard Downs,
deceased, to secure the sum of £330 and interest owing by
the said John McMillin to the plaintiffs, the plaintiffs are
entitled to a charge on the funds and interest included in
the said mortgage for the amount due to them and
interest.
(2.) That the plaintiffs’said charge may be enforced by
fore-closure or sale. j
(3.) That for the purposes aforesaid all proper accounts
and inquiries may be directed to be taken and made.
(4.) A Receiver.
(5.) Further or other relief.
And that the Court has, by Order dated the 27th
February, 1905, authorised service of the concurrent writ
upon you by sanding a copy thereof, together with a copy
of the said Order, through the post, prepaid, in an
envelope addressed to you, care of Mr. Selwyn Haskew, of
32, Castle-avenue, Hale End, Chingford, Essex, and by the
publication by advertisement of the said writ of summons
and of the said Order once in the London Gazette, once
in the London Daily News newspaper, and once in the
Sydney Bulletin, and Australasian newspapers circulating
in Australia, be deemed good services of the said w r rit of
summons upon you.
And further take notice that you are required to appear
to the said writ of summons within 100 days after the
last insertion of this notice in manner aforesaid, inclusive
of the day of such insertion, and that in default of your
so doing the plaintiffs may proceed therein, and judg-
ment may be given in your absence.
Dated the 7th day of March, 1905.
JAQUES and CO., 8 Ely-place, London, England,
Agents for Scholefield and Son, Dewsbury, Yorkshire,
Plaintiffs’ Solicitors.
I
DAMP-
• -
“'lff
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER DAMPCOURSES.
EXPERIENCE
The cat who sat on a hot stove-lid
profits by her experience. But,
strangely enough, she won’t sit on a
cold one either; and this shows her
lack of reasoning power.
?
AND BRAINS
The brainy man, who finds one kind
of dampcourse fail him, does not con-
demn them all—he looks for a better
one next time. MALTHOID DAMP-
COURSE never failed yet.
If it is not seemly, do it not ; if it is not true, speak it not.” — Marcus Aurelius.
Agents: W. S. FRIEND & CO., Sydney.
JAMES McEWAN & CO.,
Melbourne, Vic.
E. T. HARRIS, Townsville, Q.
NORMAN & CO., Adelaide, S.A.
JAMES W. JACK, Wellington, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVEIt & CO., Perth, W.A.
HEDLEY BUTTON, Launceston, Tas.
G. L. DENNJSTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
JOHN BUIiNJS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
THOMSON, BIUDGEK & Co., LTD.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Christchurch, N.Z. Invercartrill N Z
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane,’Q.’
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Australasian Representative,
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
mm
ST
VISITORS TO SYDNEY.
THIEI
Empire Hotel,
PITT & HUNTER STS.
THIS HOTEL is situated in the highest
and best position of Sydney, close to the
Botanical Gardens, Government House,
Circular. Quay (the landing-plaee of all large
Ocean Mail Steamers), near principal Clubs,
Theatres, and within two minutes’ walk of
G.P.O. It is most elegantly furnished
'throughout; Sanitary Arrangements are of
the very latest. Electrically lighted through-
out, and elevators to every floor.
Smoking, Commercial Rooms,
and Ladies’ Drawing Rooms,
and Library, &c.
TARIFF
BACK ROOMS - - - from £2 2s. Weekly
FRONT ROOMS - - from £3 3s. Weekly
JAfIES JACKSON, Proprietor (Late Western Australia and Queensland).
Beautiful
Ring Settings
We have a line of GOLD RINGS of manifold
designs—Beautiful Half-hoop Rings, Marquise and
Cluster, etc., set with RICH WHITE
DIAMONDS, and but you must see them
to appreciate their tone. Prices from £3 up.
Also, a variety of Rings suitable as gifts.
EDWARD FISCHER & SON
IEO COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
@Ss
Rifle and Pistol Cartridges.
The proof of the pudding is the eating ; the proof of
the cartridge is its shooting. The great popularity
attained by Winchester rifle and pistol cartridges
during a period of over 30 years is the best proof of
their shooting qualities. They alv/ays give satisfac-
tion. Winchester .22 caliber cartridges loaded with
Smokeless powder have the celebrated Winches-
ter Greaseless Bullets, which make them cleaner to
handle than any cartridges of this caliber made.
ALL SUCCESSFUL SPORTSMEN USE THEM.
THE LAST OF SIX.
Price Qd.
Post Free


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATALi, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Tvvin-Scre\v Steamer.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
OBlocs - - 105 Pitt street. Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,814,795.
Policies issued 94,657- assuring £28,394,068.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,267,019.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses - pnuitably distributed.
Head Office:
<l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland,
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,213 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 42,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS. 12
Months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum. 2 Years
and over, at the rate of 44 per cent, per annum.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.O. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J r.iin it i: i). “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,539
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,812
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 64,00 C
£697,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Envvn. IX Day. Asst. Mugr., VV. B. Alforb
LONDON OFFICE: 25 A3CHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amouu tof Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,000,000
Pe Bank of Dorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 900 ... £350.000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. M kicks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John She, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. J lessor, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, J). Olynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. \V.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP A 90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND and UNDIVIDED
PROFITS (used in Company’s business) £15,122 8 1
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Es<|., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager
EDISON ft
0010 MOI/IOfO I
'RECORDS W
a
/EDISON
HOLD noMD£O
RECORDS
For EDISON
PHONOGRAPHS
and RECORDS
WRITE TO . , .
Edison Phonograph Supply,
T. & G. BUILDINGS,
Swanston Street, Melbourne,
Next Town Hall.
Catalogues and Price Lists Post Free.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDKTBY.
3\T. 3D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHF.R LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*FRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 15th APRIL.
*W!LLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 13th MAY.
*PRIBZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tens.. 10th JUNE.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
ft.
I
vi<:,
I
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Models £2.10t0£5.5.Q
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres , Accessories , Sporting Goods &
Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
•Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO, C.S.A. and LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
Shipping.
WHITE STAR LINE
gsd
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about
15th APRIL,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC,
and PERSIC to follow.
FARES-Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB €R P €€N LIN£.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY BERVICE.
MORAVIAN
SOPHOCLES
NINEVEH
A. Simpson
H. A. Schleman
A. Robb
Noon, April 15
Noon, May 6
Noon, May 27
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
OCEA.KTIC S.S. 00. A. axidL A. LXKT E,
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SIERRA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, APRIL 17.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
gsd
TROPICAL TRIPS
THERE are, of course, several ways of spending
a Winter vacation ; but a cruise through the
Solomon Islands surpasses them all. Do you
know that you can make this voyage at a cost of
less than Ten Shillings per day ? a steamship of
1763 tons makes the voyage. Will you drop us a
postal for “HOLIDAY HINTS,” a new illus-
trated pamphlet?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
&>
$
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress U ury.
3ST.S.-W.
fflontde pete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEEEAGH Sl’., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
gsd
Kerosene
Bath Heaters -
To fix yourself.
No Plumber wanted.
From £3 3s.
Send for Catalogue on Gas
or Wood Heaters.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt
Street, Sydney. 197-422 Eliza-
beth St., Melbourne.
REYNOLDS’S
NEWSPAPER
FOR ARTICLES ON
Labor and Wages and Labor Disputes.
MOTTO: Government of the People, by
the Feople, for the People.
PRICE- ONEPENNY WEEKLY
JOHN DICKS, Effingham House, Arundel-street,
London, Erig.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED" ROUTE.
New Twin-Screw Steamer,
MANUKA, Sails 17th April .
NO OTHER ROUTE HOME OFFERS SUCH
ATTRACTIONS AS THAT via CANADA.
PACIFIC as SMOOTH & as STILL as a LAKE.
NO ENERVATING HEAT.
NATIVE LIFE SEEN IN FIJI AND FANNING
ISLANDS.
Honolulu the Paradise of the Pacific.
Charmingly Picturesque Scenes
in the Rockies.
NIAGARA FALLS, NEW YORK and QUEBEC
on the “ ALL-RED ” ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS— MAY 15, and EVERY FOUR
WEEKS THEREAFTER.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z. LTD.
Managing: Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passengei Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), The Three Donkies (a good joke), the Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character—
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), the Pocket Companion or Combina-
tion Comet Candle and Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North's Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
SOUTH BRITISH
OFFICES :
SOUTH BRITISH CHAMBERS, 12 Bridge St., Sydney,
GEO. H. MOOEE, Manager. CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
One of the
Wealthiest Fire
and Marinelnsur-
a'nce Companies
doing- business in
Australia, and
noted for its
Promptness and
Liberality in
Settlements.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Marloo, Saturday Next,
April 15, at 10 a.m. (Tran-
shipping at Melbourne.)
S.S. Kanowna, Wednesday,
April 26, at 1 p.m. (With-
out Transhipment.)
BRISBANE,
MACKAY, I
TOWNSVILLE, [
And Ports North to Cairns. I
S.S. Gabo, Saturday Next,
April 15, at 2 p.m.
S.S. Marloo, April 22, at
1 p.m.
liest anil Cheapest Route to Cold fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries lVlaritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will bedispatched MONTHLY ae follows: -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Cnina
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters ineeli
the passengers for London and give them every assistanoe
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TIIB . .
“E. and n.” line.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing' two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe r<% Canada
and the U.S. America, i r the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. GO. ED.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPIT, Manager.
* T SAY, Jim ! Where did you stay when you went over
to Melbourne last ? ”
“ Oh ! at the
“FALSTAFF” Restaurant
SPENCER STREET,
Opposite Railway Offices.
I found it all right, clean and comfortable, handy to
railways and boats. Could get a hot bath when I wanted
it, and could be called any time by Night Porter.
Smoking Room ; 6 a.m. Breakfast. Board and Resi-
dence, 16s. and £l. Single Bedrooms, Is. 6d. Double
Bedrooms, 3s. Meals, 6d. and 9d. Try it.”
A Limited Number of Single Bedrooms are available
at Is. per night, or ss. weekly, with every
convenience. Tel. 1-281.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
ilodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comroru and convenience at—
MRS- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade.
Sl'. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
Creswick Hotel
Bligh & Bent
Sts., Sydney.
Excellent Bachelors' Quarters. A Real English
Home. TERMS MODERATE.
PROPRIETRESS
MRS. M. J. CHANCELLOR.


r
m
We Invite Special Attention
to these ....
Fine Gold
Horseshce Pins
As illustrated here, Set £s. d.
7 Diamonds . ..376
Set 15 Pearls .. ..200
Set 5 Diamonds, 4 Sap-
phires .. .. .. 3 10 0
Set 4 Diamonds, 3 Rubies 4 10 0
Set 7 Fine Diamonds .. 5 10 0
Set 5 Diamonds, 6 Rubies 7 7 0
Set 7 Fine Diamonds .. 7 10 0
Set 7 F,lie Diamonds ..8 10 0
Set 13 Fine Diamonds .. 810 0
THE POPULAR PINS OF TO-DAY.
pOR some time past Scarf Pins have
■ been slightly unpopular, but to-day
they are more generally worn than ever
they were. Take a look round and see
how many of the young men of to-day
wear Scarf Pins, and you will be sur-
prised at the number. A Scarf Pin
helps to finish off a smart scarf, and,
besides, helps to keep it in position.
'a
STRAND CSRNERf, CEo jB
dm
No. 229. —Pearl Set Fly, 25a.
m
No. E 9309. —Opals and Pearls, £1 15s.
gsd
g
No. 235. —Diamond Set Key, 32s 6d.
sdg
No. 234. —Opal Set 15ct. Gold, 27s 6d.
I
l
No. F 7155. —New Zealand Greenstone and
Gold, 8s Od.
'
-> r.ji
No. 17. —Opal and Pearl Fly, 30s
sdg
Set One Opal, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6, 21/-.
J
No. Gsl39.—Greenstone and Pearls, 10s 6d
f
No. G 5067.— Pearls and Rubv 30s.
I
No. Gsl74.—Greenstone and Gold, 7s 6d.
sd
No. G 5069. —Set Pearls and Ruby
Sapphire, 255.
gsd
No. G 4517. —Set Pearls and Greenstone.
11s 6d.
Our Patent
Pin Grip
goes Free
with
Each Pin.
WE POST ANY OF THESE UP-TO-DATE P/NS FREE ON RECEIPT OF REMITTANCE.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR OUR CATALOGUE.
No. G373l.—Set Opals and
Pearls, 27s 6d.
No. G 5276. —Set Pearls, 13s 6d.
Whole Pearls, 2ns, 355, 455,
60s, 70s, 80s.
No. F 5701.— Set Diamond,
Ruby, and Sapphire, £3 10a.
No. G 5068. —Pearls and
Sapphire, 27s 6d.
No. 239. —Set Diamonds
and Sapphire, 72s Cd.
No. G3732.—0pa1s and
Gold, 255.
I
No. G 3727. —Gold, Diamond, Ruby and
Pearl, £3 3s.
gsd
No. ESI3S. —Set Pearls and Greenstone,
12s. 6d.
I
No. G 4469. —Greenstone and Pearl,
10s. 6d.
i*E S i
No. G 2444. —Pearls, Ruby, and 15ct.
Gold, £2 ss.
gsd
No. G 2369. —Pearl Set, 13s. 6d.
gsd
No. 233.— Pearl Set, 17s. 6d.
o
No. E 9042.— Set all Pearls, £2 10s.
gsd
No. EB2BB.— Pearls and Rubies, 255.
g
No. E 9040.— Set whole Pearl, 30s.
dsg
No. E 7064.— Opals and Pearl, 225. 6d.
sd
No. F 3803.— Pearl Set, 12s 6d. ; 15ct.
Gold.
J
No. 242. —Set one Pearl, 12s. 6d.
gsd
No. G 5071. —Gold and Pearls, 255.
hJLt
No. F 605.— Pearl Set, 255.
wf WRITE TO-DAY for OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
How to Make the Liver Act Properly
Rev. Charles Wincott
WRITES :
“ Gentlemen, —About three years ago I
was confined to my bed for a short time with
a very acute attack of Liver complaint.
After other medicines had failed to take any
effect, I was recommended by my doctor to
try Kutnow’s Powder, and I am glad to say
that after taking two bottles I was com-
pletely cured, and my health has been
better ever since. I have since recommended
your excellent preparation to quite a number
of sufferers, who testify of similar results.
“(Rev.) CHAS E. WINCOTT.”
(Incumbent of St. Phillip’s Church,
(Adlington, Lancs.)
Dr. THORPE wk.™:
“ Grant Building, Los Angeles.
“ I prescribe Kutnow’s Powder and take
it myself occasionally ; it never fails to bring
about the most gratifying results in the most
pleasant manner.”
Sir J. B. MONCKTON
(Late Town Clerk of London) wrote :
“Guildhall, London, E.C.
“ Gentlemen, —I have much satisfaction in
stating that for the last two years I have
regularly used Kutnow’s Powder, with the
result that troublesome and frequent attacks
*f lumbago, with other gouty symptoms that
had troubled me for years, seem to have
entirely disappeared.”
THE FOOD PASSAGES
and ORGANS.
The body is a working machine, and like all other
machines wears away in use. Our bones and muscles, so firm
and strong, need constant repair to keep them so. For this
purpose food is necessary, and a series of instruments or
organs by which it may be changed into flesh and bone. We
are, therefore, furnished with teeth to chew, palates to taste,
stomachs to digest, livers to aid digestion, and bowels to carry
off the refuse matter. The Liver is the very gateway of
health, the sewage farm, where the poisons are neutralised by
the action of the bile ; it exerts an all-powerful influence on
the mind, temperament, and disposition. If your Liver is
active you are happy and light-hearted, if sluggish you are
crabby and miserable. Kutnow’s Powder will keep the
liver in perfect order.
Important Caution!
All respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder, but there are others,
who, for the sake of a little extra profit, will attempt to foist upon
you some cheap imitation of their own. It is well known that
these cheap concoctions are highly dangerous, and in the case of
delicate, sensitive persons capable of inflicting permanent injury.
Kutnow’s Powder is pure, painless, palatable, free from sugar, and
absolutely harmless. See that the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow
& Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap,” are on the carton in which the bottle is packed, and
also on the label on the bottle. This signature and trade mark
will alone insure your obtaining the
GENUINE Kutnow’s Powder.
CAPTAIN BARCLAY WMIEB:
“Kirsteen, Cisbury Road, Brighton.
“ Gentlemen, —You kindly forwarded me
a bottle of your Kutnow’s Powder a short
time ago. I am very unwilling to testify
that things have worked wonders, but really
I cannot speak too highly of it. I have
suffered for years from constipation and liver
troubles. Your powder has done all that it
claimed, and more than that, it has given me
comfort. Its action is sure and gentle, and
at the same time certain, without any dis-
tressing effects. —Faithfully yours,
“ R. BARCLAY (Capt.).”
Dr. Tertius Marks w™
(President of the Texas State Home Medical
Association; Medical Director of the G.A.R. of
the Department of Texas, Ex-Pension Medical
Examiner, TJ.S.A.)
“ Having tried your excellent preparation
(Kutnow’s Powder) personally, I am in a
position to say it is as good as it is possible
to conceive.”
Dr. I. N. LOVE
WROTE :
Late Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases,
Marion-Sims College of Medicine and College
of Physicians and Surgeons, says:
“ Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activi-
ties of the bowels and kidneys, it cleanses
the bowels, dilutes the urine, and flushes
out the kidneys in the most satisfactory way.
Thorough elimination is salvation, and there
is no better eliminator than Kutnow’s Pow-
der. “I. N. LOYE, M.D.”
hKE Kutnow’s Powder and Enjoy Life
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. proprietors in u.s.a. : kutnow bros., Ltd., 353 Broadway, New York. [2—B].


'
f*2* * ** it * * * * t/f
‘.■rax::! tor,
WMll
M- J. MOLONEY,
Tattersall’s Club,
SYDNEY .
COMMISSIONS Executed.
longest market rates
GUARANTEED.
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations,.
Price Lists forwarded on Application•
« .
Address all Correspondence—
M, J, MOLONEY, TattersalTs Club, Sydney,
Dreadful Sores
Yield to the Marvellous Blood-Purifying
Properties of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
No person can be afflicted with a greater mis-
fortune than having a running sore that will not
yield to ordinary treatment. The sore may
originally be caused by accident or otherwise ; but
if it does not heal it is because the blood is impure.
The foul humors, instead of being carried away
through the regular channels, burst through the
skin, causing suffering and humiliation. The case
published below is that of Mr. Henry Bramble,
of North Broken Hill, who met with a serious
accident, causing a wound that would not yield to
either internal or external remedies, and which
nearly cost him his life. “Nearly eight years
ago,” says Mr. Bramble, “when working on the
New Chum Consolidated Gold Mine, Bendigo,
Victoria, a rock-drilling machine fell on me,
making a large wound in my back, exposing the
kidneys. After twelve weeks in bed two doctors
operated on me, and then it was eighteen months
before I was able to work, the wound refusing to
close. In spite of all the medicines I took
internally, the oils and ointments used externally,
the wound never closed up, and I had to go to
work with a large towel tied round my middle.
For the past four years I have been employed on
Broken Hill mines, with the wound still refusing
to heal, until nine months ago, when I started
using Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills with great
results. They improved my blood so rapidly that
the wound healed quickly, and now is quite closed,
only leaving a large scar. I thoroughly believe
that the pills are the sole cause of my cure, and
can honestly recommend them.” Mrs. Bramble
endorses everything her husband says about the
pills.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
JS. RESCII, Brewer by Appointments
to Hi 3 Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS.
After all, the Australian Race problem is how
to pick the winner.
* * • *
John Cleeland, winner of the Melbourne Cup of
’75 with Wollomai, and now living on his estate on
Phillip Island (Vic.), recently attained his 80th year. He
is a J.P., and regularly attends the sittings of the San
Remo Court.
* ■* • •
A.J.C. had summer weather for its autumn
meeting. The increased accommodation, the freshness of
the lawn and the splendid state of the track made it an
ideal day. Gladsome’s win of the April Stakes was a
beautiful exhibition of the marvellous sprinting powers
of Seaton Delaval’s wonderful daughter. Jumping
away to a perfect start, the mare slowed down
immediately, and the pacemakers swept to the front,
with them going the Doncaster favorite. Marvel Loch.
Lochiel’s daughter had an advantage of 81b.
over Gladsome, but the betting told its own story.
10 to 9 on, Gladsome ; 6 to 1 v. Marvel Loch. Marvel
Loch ran in the middle of the front bunch, Gladsome led
the second. Then Lochiel’s daughter moved up and took
charge as they entered the straight. Gladsome moved
with extraordinary speed. At half distance the two
chestnut mares were abreast, but Gladsome had plenty in
hand, while Marvel Loch was all out, and Jockey Barden
was content to win comfortably by half-a-length.
* * * *
Only five horses remain in A.J.O. St. Leger, to
be run at coming Autumn Meeting, and probably two of
those will not sport silk. Fact remains that except on
rare occasions fields have not been bigger. Forty years
ago there were 10 starters. The biggest field in the last
29 years was six.
* * * *
The real trouble at the recent S. A.J.C. meeting
was want of backbone on the part of the club. It
personally heaved out the small fry bookmaker with grim
decisiveness, but when the big gun declined to remove
himself it put its hands in its pocket and yelled for the
police. Police said they could not act as chuckers out—
they were there to see that the peace was kept, and would
prevent the solitary bookmaker assaulting the whole club,
but nothing more. Then the club just sat down, the
bookmaker lifted up his voice and yelled the odds, and all
was gamble. The same trouble occurred at Hooligan’s
hash-house in Woolloomooloo recently. Hogan had n’t paid
his “ rint ” and was requested to deposit himself and be-
longings on the kerb. He said he hoped the empyrean
might fall on him if he did. Mrs. Hooligan appealed to
the police. The Force said it was powerless unless
Hogan assaulted anybody. If young Hooligan threw him
out and shut the door the Force would see that he didn’t
get in again, and if Hogan assaulted Hooligan in the
process of ejection it would “dale wid” him. It was
only there to prevent assault. Hooligan, junior, ran Hogan
out. As he did it Hogan bashed him badly, and the two
fell into the arms of constable Murphy, who promptly
locked Hogan up.- Then there was peace. The S.A.J.O.
might do worse than hire a young Hooligan.
* * * *
Spite of Rupert Clarke’s 3000 gs. purchase, Can-
teen, coming over from Melbourne during the present
week, for the A.J.O. Autumn meet, probabilities are that
he won’t line up, as a very shaky leg necessitates a lot of
nursing. Heaps of public money have gone on Canteen
in doubles and straight-out betting for both Doncaster and
Sydney Oup, but, at the moment of writing, 1000’s to 10
and 15 are freely offered against him for either event.
The books rarely make a mistake when they are so liberal.
* » * *
All Fours’ high jump of 7ft., at West Maitland
show, is an inch over the height cleared by Moral, New-
haven, and Strathmore, at Bendigo, in 1903—then an
Australian record ; but it is a long way below American
and Canadian records. For instance, Heatherbloom
jumped 7ft. 9in. at the Philadelphia Horse Show of 1903,
and the next best jump is the 7ft. 6fin. of Pearl in the
prior year. All Fours is by Ithuriel, and was bred at
Bogamildi.
• » • *
Perhaps the silly crawl of the free people of
England was never more painful than in connection with
the sale to the King, for £2500, by Spencer Gollan of
Maoriland, of Moifaa, the favorite for the English Grand
National. Another of Gollan’s in tne same race was Sea-
horse 11., and, a few days after the sale, the rumor got
round that Seahorse was better than Moifaa at the weights.
At this half the sporting papers in the Cold Coun-
try promptly raised an awful cry that a man had actually
dared to make a good bargain at the expense of the King.
But they crawled a little further down on their stum-
micks the next week by announcing that Mr. Gollan
would be sorry to win the Grand National if there was a
chance of the King winning it, and that he actually
intended to scratch Seahorse so as to give Moifaa a better
chance. Seahorse, as well as Moifaa, had been well backed.
If an owner out here did that sort of thing, the A.J.C.
would very probably refuse his next entry, but at ’Ome it
was loudly applauded as British fair play. However, a
good deal of it was probably moonshine, as both started.
Doubtless just before the start, Seahorse grovelled along
on his stummick and licked Moifaa’s hoofs.
* * * *
The obliteration of betting news from news-
papers in public libraries would, if adopted in Australia,
reduce a good deal the expense of maintenance. The
newspaper department of the Public Library in N.S.W.
carries about 90 per cent, of betting-news patrons. The
hours at which the papers with special sporting intelli-
gence are available is known by the rank and file of these
readers, and the rush is prompt and exacting. The news-
room, being in thje centre of the city, is to the hand of the
great mass of youths and men who fringe the professional
betting circles. They bet when they have the money and
bet in spirit when they haven’t, and retire from the news-
room primed with the very latest in jockey and prad.
* * * *
Champion runners Duffey and Shrubb are now
in Sydney. There has been a lot of preparation of dark
horses lately, and there are many Cornstalks who believe
that both men will strike trouble here. Still, if those
Maoriland times are anything like correct, we’ve got no
hope, unless Carruthers is chased round the track by his
Reform Policy.
* * * *
English and ’Murkan amateur runners—Shrubb
(distance) and Duffey (sprinter)—are widely dissimilar in
structure. Duffey (sft. 7in.) is strongly put together, but
lissom-limbed, and owns a pair of well-moulded legs that
might belong to a wrestler, and a physique generally
which would stand to him in that capacity or as a boxer,
swimmer, or even weight-putter; he is inclined to be
ohubby-looking, and will probably run to fat quickly when
he gives up active exercise. Shrubb (sft. 6Jin.) is lightly-
framed and spider-limbed, albeit he shows good chest and
hip development for one of his build ; he is a hard, cheery,
genial-looking little customer. The work of the .pair on
the track is opposite. Shrubb leans forward, and gets
most of his power from behind, moving along with a
regular, easy swing that makes the effort seem nothing.
Duffey’s body is rigidly erect, inclined slightly back if
anything—he throws his legs out well in front and lifts
himself with each stride, making work of it all the time.
The’Murkan has all the “style” a runner can bring to
bear, and though there’s no show in Shrubb’s way of
travelling, there’s heaps of effect.
* * » #
Duffey and Shrubb, the sprinting and running
champions from Yank and England, like beer, and say it
does them good as a training beverage. G. D. Clark, of
Sydney cold tea circles, should pick a pump man to go
against them.
* * * *
“ G. 8.”: They badly need someone in M.L.
who can properly hold the watch. Duffey and Shrubb
are there beating world’s records on grass courses which
they and others made elsewhere on cinder tracks—
notably the faster. In addition, some of those who
finished close to them could never make such
times. I remember once an upper-class schoolboy
at the Edinburgh Academy being timed by his mates to
run 100 yards in lOsec. dead. I went down with the
pistol-flrer, a professional runner, at our own school
sports to see this boy tried out by a lad, a professional,
who could run his hundred in 11 sec. dead. The young
pro. beat the school champion by two yards, and the
latter’s time was lljsec.—both all out. The amateur
time-keeper mostly gets his watch going after the men
are running, and he usually stops it when he sees the
leader throw his arm out at the worsted. As a rule he
presents the performers with an allowance of five yards
at least. Watch-holding is as much a trade as is watch-
making.
* * * *
After years of inertia, caused by public apathy,
Sydney Amateur Athletic people ventured a sports meet-
ing on Sydney Cricket Ground Saturday last, East Sydney
A. A. running the show. Western Suburbs (Brisbane)
Club sent over a team —most members of which were
just recovering from dengue, and consequently more or
less short of form—to assist. The thing was advertised
and boomed largely, but the public mustered very
sparsely. Sydney beat the Bananalanders 6 points to 4.
Had the visiting contingent not paid their own ex’s, and
had it not been arranged that no prizes should be given,
East Sydney club would have been badly bankrupt, but
as it is they may scramble through without having to
borrow. Things were widely different 20 years ago.
Then an important amateur sports meeting drew thou-
sands of spectators, and was talked and looked forward
to, weeks before; yet the amateur of to-day is much
superior as a performer, and the conditions under which
meetings are run have improved a good deal; also, there
is considerably more variety in the programmes.
* * * *
Melbourne lias discovered, in the annual balance
sheets of its metropolitan football clubs, that, although all
the first-class footballers foot for the honor and glory of
the thing, they require a fearsome amount of coddling in
the way of boot-money. In fact, Jim’s boot-money
threatens to crush the clubs. Travelling expenses and
cab-hire form an important item in the expense list, but
it is in the boot expenditure that the trouble is most
pronounced. In some cases members demand not only
football boots, but foot-gear for ordinary wear, and some
of the players from the rowdier portions of the city seem
to levy on the club for light boots for correcting the
donah, and heavier ones for persuading the police that
the liberty of the subject is a sacred thing for which the
push is prepared to lay down the life of the other fellow.
The clubs are now contemplating declaring any player
who demands more than six pairs of boots in a season a
professional.
* * * *
S.A. Football Association has made up its dif-
ferenees.with the Adelaide Oval, and has contracted to
play there for the next five years. Last season all
matches were played on the Jubilee Oval, belonging to
the Government, but it is too small for proper football.
* * * *
“Vulcan”: Swannell, forward in the lat®
visiting English football team, is still in N.S.W., and has
applied for leave to play in Sydney metropolitan football
—preferably for North Sydney. Two other members of
the team, ex-Oaptain Bedell-Sivright and Dr. Orowther,
also remain here, but it doesn’t transpire whether or not
they propose to play.
* * • •
Among the “converts” gathered in by the
recent “ revival ” in Wales were several footballers, who
didn’t see the fun of counting the game one of the
worldly pleasures to be given up for evermore, amen. So
they compromised with Satan by forming a team “to
purify football from bad language and brutality.”
• * * ♦
J. J. Calvert, chief clerk of the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Council, and president of the Rugby Union, at the
Sydney reception to the visiting pedestrians, Shrubb and
Duffey, told how in 1851 he ran 100yds. in 9jsee. But it
was down hill—Calvert was covering about five yards in
one stride.
The Yic. Automobile Club is not showing much
dignity in connection with the Buchanan Cup. . Tho
Buchanan Cup is a rather handsome trophy, which a
whisky firm offered as first prize for the winner of the
now famous Dunlop Motor Reliability Test, which was
won by H. Tarrant, of the Vic. club. As the cup is to be
contested for annually, it was understood that the club to
which the winner belonged (only members of recognised
clubs could compete) would act as custodian, and keep
the trophy on view in the club-rooms. Then it dawned
on some of the members of the Auto. Club that the whole
thing was an ad. for Buchanan’s whisky—which was no
doubt true enough. A meeting was called, and it was
decided that the club should anticipate a request to act
as custodian, and decline the intended honor in advance.
Then the club thought it over for a while. It had nomi-
nated a number of members to compete in the race, and,
therefore, it was urged, tacitly accepted the trophy, and
to refuse the thing house-room was an insult to the
donors. So it held another meeting, and rescinded the
former resolution, but did not carry one that it would
give the trophy a niche. Another meeting will have to
be held to decide if the club will look after the trophy,
the former meeting having decided only that the club
would not rush into the offices of Buchanan’s people and
tell them that the club wouldn’t listen to any request to
take care of Fame in her winged motor-car. In all prob-
ability the cup will not be offered to the club, but merely
handed to the winner, on the understanding that he will
hand it over if another man should win the next reli-
ability test.
• • • •
Sydney has now got a Motor Bicycle Club of its
own. Being the first in Australia it has called itself the
Pioneer, and seems to consist largely of men connected
with the trade, who take an active part in the running of
it. This is in contra-distinction to the Melbourne body,
which has just decided that no one connected with the
trade can hold office. Looks as if the trade in Sydney
had organised with a rush to prevent any such develop-
ment ; but it is bound to come. The club held its first
road race on Saturday, over a 10 miles course on the
Homebush-Granville road. A baker’s dozen started. The
winner turned up in Mr. L. Saunders, on a 3ih.p. Minerva.
In the near future Australia will be turning out quite a
number of motor-bikes of local manufacture ; several new
patents of local invention are just now being registered.
* * * *
The recent motor race-meeting on the Ormond-
Daytona beach in Florida, U.S.A., saw some wonderful
records put up. The cars were all abnormally high-
powered vehicles: an 80 h.p. De Dietrich car, whizzed
over the 100 miles in lhr. 18min. 24sec., or at the rate of
over 76J miles an hour. Two other cars, French ones,
were only between three and four minutes behind that
amazing time. The driver who thus defied the Devil was
named H. W. Fletcher.
» * * *
Frank Grimley Limited are landing a new
model of their Sarolea motor-cycle, 3 h.p., with magnetic
ignition. This is an important departure for country
residents, as the ignition is automatic and more reliable
than that obtained by the use of accumulators, a con-
venience well worth the additional cost.
* * * *
In France the motor-car has won such a vogue
that in all the big cities one can be called off the rank, as
a cab can in Australia.
* * * *
Big Dunlop Tyre Co. will hold the Warrnam-
bool-Melbourne road race some time in September. As
usual, there will be the preliminary State representative
contests.
* * * *
Evidently there is still money in riding like a
whirlwind on the edge of a vacuum behind pace. German
whizzer Robl, who was in Australia a year or two ago,
made £2112 at it last year, and £4O a week is hard to get
at, sav, humping coal.
* * * *
The old rivalry between the single and married
men broke out at Ooogee (Sydney) Aquarium baths on
Saturday, when the married members of the Sydney
Bicycle Club beat the celibates in two out of three swim-
ming races, and carried off both the diving events. The
hand that helps to rock the cradle grows the best muscle
and the man who has a wife acquires the art of holding
his breath.
* * * *
Sydney has now settled down seriously to raise
the money to keep swimmer Reran in shoe-leather while
in England. The Royal Life Saving Society has offered to
defray half the cost of the journey to England, and to
treat Reran as a guest while he remains in the Cold
Country. So the required sum will not be a very large
one.
* * * *
This rushing of champion swimmer Reran off to
England illustrates a curious kink in Australian charac-
ter. No sooner does an Australian native prove himself
to be head and shoulders above his countrymen at any-
thing—swimming, racing, or drawing good, horses and
pretty women—than somebody starts a movement “ to
send him to England.” There are some people who would,
if they could, ship our Jenolan Caves to England. But for
the immovability of things in general everything that
makes this country worth living in would have been sent
to England long ago on some pretext or other.
* * * *
Mr. Watkin Wynne, manager of Sydney Daily
Telegraph, won the first swimming championship of
N.S.W. (half a mile), at the Corporation Baths, Domain,
about 23 years ago ; and, a little latter, captained a team
in the first inter-club water-polo match contested in Aus-
tralia—Port Jackson v. St. Leonards S.C., at Lavender
Bay baths.
* * * *
George Read, long-distance Australian cham-
pion swimmer, left for the Cold Country a day or two
ago. Only engagement more or less definitely made so
far is with Hobbs, 3-mile champion of the Navy; but he
has his mind also fixed on a Channel swim. Read, who has
charge of the Broken Hill City Baths, has only six months’
leave from the Municipal Council, but it will be extended
if he strikes form.
♦ * * *
“V.D.”: My memory is certainly not so
reliable as a sundial, but it appears to me that Sydney
swimmers and bath attenders should not be surprised at
anyone keeping up the crawl stroke after 200 yards has
been covered. I fancy that Rich. Cavill, brother of its
inventor, used it at almost all distances and certainly
over every foot of 880 yards on one occasion.
* * * •
There was a ladies’ double-sculling match
in Sydney harbor on Saturday. The contestants
were the Misses Lewis, of Middle Harbor, and the
Misses Oounsell, of Annandale, and the affair aroused
extraordinary enthusiasm in the two districts. They had
not long started when the boats collided, and, while the
Annandale girls stopped rowing, the Middle Harbor girls
went for their lives. Then the Annandales went in pur-
suit, but had no hope. They claimed a re-row on the
score of a foul, and it was, after a most tremendous
amount of discussion in which the ladies showed a great
capacity for talk, allowed, on a date to be fixed.
# * « *
The N.S.W. inter-State eight-oar crew put in
an exhibition appearance at the North Sydney Rowing
Club’s annual regatta last Saturday afternoon. The crew
looked very spick and span in its new boat. There was a
nice, fresh, affluent look about the men, and their rowing
was distinctly stylish. Unfortunately there was a trace
of rawness about a couple of the crew and a general lack
of lifting power on the part of the whole of them, which
suggests that they will have to pub in a lot of hard work
during the next month to get fit for the tussle before
them.
* * * *
The Victorian tennis-players who stayed on in
Adelaide for the championships had no chance against
Parker, the small, spectacled Maorilander. Bowen and
Dr. Harbison, both local men, fought out the singles, and
the former, winning, went down badly to Parker. Then
the two in partnership lost the doubles after a great
fight with Parker and Cecil Heath (Vic.). Adelaide, of
course, retained all the ladies’ championships, Miss Payne
—alone, with Miss Parr, and with Parker—taking the lot.
* * * *
Sydney Sailing Club’s final race of the season
was remarkable for the way the umpire dealt out dis-
qualifications, no less than three of the 13 starters being’
ruled out. The umpire’s action should have a good effect
on the skippers. They had no right to get bunched up
in such a manner. A jumbled race ended by Australian
winning, with Keriki and Vera placed in that order.
The same afternoon also saw the last of the Port Jackson
Skiff Club’s season. Out at Botany Bay the St. George
Club was holding motor boat races—probably it will
go on holding them, for the motor boat craze is like the
morphia habit.
* • « *
The Lenton-Frost controversy at Sydney Gaiety
Athletic Club on Saturday night drew a most substantial
house, and the gentlemen in the ring regarded the well-
filled rows of seats with intense satisfaction. There was
a difference of only 21b. between their declared weights,
Lenton being the heavier with 9st. 21b. Of the two,
Lenton at first seemed slightly the more aggressive, and
the men who were howling the odds wanted to lay them
on Lenton. Then Frost woke up. After much sparring
he suddenly landed a neat uppercut, which drew blood.
He essayed to repeat it, but was stopped by a straight
poke in the face. He staggered, Lenton tried to follow
up, missed, and ran into Frost’s extended fist. Both men
seemed to be of the opinion that the other fellow was
done, and only wanted one good clout to send him right
out. When neither went out there was a look of genuine
surprise on each pug.’s face. It was an expression of
annoyance, a sort of what-the-devil-are-you-standing-
there-yet-for cast of countenance. At the end the referee
said it was a draw.
* * • *
The Harold .Smith-John Blackmore fight ct
Sydney National Sporting Club last week went the full
20 rounds. No genuine fight lasts 20 rounds. A “ mill ”
of that duration is a boxing contest, not a fight. Smith
appeared to be suffering from stage fright, while Black-
more was in his glory. After finding himself prone a few
times, Smith’s tail began to rise. He seemed to get
tired of the recumbent position, and preferred to get up
and fight. Left drives and right crosses got home
regularly, but there was no hitting power behind them.
Most of Blackmore’s “ wharf-laborer ” swipes went round
Smith’s neck or missed altogether. Had Smith been a
hitter, Blackmore would have been knocked out again
and again. But he wasn’t; and as Blackmore had him on
the defensive all the time, Blackmore got the verdict on
points.
* • • *
Generally understood that Dan Oreedon and W.
McCall will shortly meet again at Newcastle. Last time
they fought, at Sydney National Sporting Club, it was an
unsatisfactory scrap. Half-way through, Creedon had
McCall thoroughly beaten. The then champion had been
stretched out, but staggered to his feet and stood dazed,
in a stooping position, near the ropes. It was an ugly
situation. If Creedon waded in and smashed him
up he would win the fight, and McCall was obviously at his
mercy. As McCall was on his feet, Creedon had every
right to smash him—but it looked brutal. So he hesi-
tated, and then his fighting instincts triumphed. He
crossed over and dealt M’Call a sounding smash. M'Call’s
seconds jumped into the ring and shrieked “ Foul !
foul! ” Amidst the uproar Creedon howled that he had
every right to hit. The result was that McCall got a good
breathing spell which saved him, and he pulled himself
together and eventually won. Creedon feels that he
didn’t have a fair go. And he didn’t; though it wasn’t
McCall’s fault.
» * * *
Roller skating has started at the Columbia
Rink, Sydney—otherwiselthe Exhibition building. The
latest luxury in roller skating is the ball-bearing footgear,
which is said to be a more slippery contrivance than the
original, the only genuine skate on a greased ice-floe.
* * * *
Again the Australian inventor given an oppor-
tunity, sails ahead. In the old days a year’s guarantee
was the most any tyre people would give a purchaser.
Bu,t when the Dunlop people started a big local enter-
prise, put money into it, and let it be known that they
had more to spend on good ideas, things began to im-
prove. The Doughty hydraulic process was invented,
and acquired by the Dunlop co., and, in consequence of
the improvement it makes in the construction of the
tyres, the big co. will now give a 15 months’ guarantee,
even if the tyre is to run on Bent’s roads.*
* * * *
“To Let” already figures over several Sydney
betting-shop doors. Tenants mostly have departed Wes-
traliawards, where the police are not so active and magis-
trates are very much more lenient. That “three months
without the option ” created more consternation than a
£5OO fine would have done. Present week saw two shop
clerks mulct in the sum of £lOO each, and they left
the court smiling—the money won’t come from their
pockets—but until they knew that magistrate Donald-
son wouldn’t be on the bench sleepless nights were
common. Latest move is to form clubs—some only
thinly cloaked, while others have enlarged premises with
billiard tables, etc. Strongest among the forces against
the betting-shop is the bookmaker, who doesn’t run a
shop, but would were it not for the fear of being struck
off Tattersall’s roll; his grievance is that the shops get a
lot of betting which would otherwise come to him.
Another power working hard to send the shop into
oblivion is the racing club, which complains that, were
opportunities to stay at home and bet not available,
many more people would go to the courses and swell the
takings materially.
* * * *
“Lachlan” : Re par. (B. 9/3/’O5) about picnic
race clubs degenerating into trained-horse meetings. In
Forbes they have a picnic race club which is moving in
the other direction. The chief events at the club’s
meetings have hitherto been for trained horses, but this
year all races are for grass-feds. There is humor in the
fact that in drought districts the committee turn out
stable-fed horses into grassless paddocks to qualify as
“ grass-feds.”
THE BETTING FINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
" Heavy fines were meted out on March 30th by Mr.
Macfarlane, S.M., at the Water Summons Court, in two
cases in which persons were charged under the Betting
Houses Suppression Act.”
If I were Treasurer of the State,
This is what I would do :
I’d let the gamblers jubilate
And bet till all was blue !
Until, of course, when short of cash
I stood in need of tin ;
And then the police should make a dash,
And scoop the shekels in 1
If I were Treasurer of the State
This system would prevail:
The thief who faced a magistrate
Should straight be sent to gaol!
Until, of course, I felt the smart
That want of coin had bred ;
And then the magistrate should start
Imposing fines instead.
W. T. GOODGE.


r v
. 11
AND ROUGH SKIN.
"‘•fe.
n
m
.
m
AN ACTOR PRAISES
ZAM-BUK.
THE cosmetics necessary to
the “ make-up ” of an
Actor invariably have a
detrimental and irritating
effect on the skin. In such cases
Zam-Buk has been found invalu-
able as a soother and healer. Mr.
A. Newport, Opera House, Bris-
bane, Q., bears witness to this
fact, and writes: —“I have de-
rived so much benefit from the
use of Zam-Buk that it is with
pleasure I acquaint you with the
facts. lam an Actor by pro-
fession, and, as you may surmise,
‘make-ups’ do not improve the
skin or complexion, so I was
agreeably surprised to find that a
light application of Zam-Buk
allays the irritation and burning,
which are the after-effects of
rouge, etc. Also, after shaving,
I find that the use of Zam-Buk
makes and keeps the face smooth and supple, and it
has also been the means of removing pimples and
blackheads, and has also healed sore lips. Altogether,
I consider Zam-Buk to be a splendid all-round healing
Balm and Embrocation.”
ZAM-BUK, the Great Healer, is a SPEEDY
CURE for PILES, ECZEMA, BOILS, RUNNING
SORES, SORE LEGS, RINGWORM, BARCOO, etc.
As an EMBROCATION forSTRAINED MUSCLES
and TENDONS, ZAM-BUK, rubbed well into the
parts affected, is unequalled. As a HOUSEHOLD
BALM for CUTS, BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS, SORE
THROAT, RASH and BITES of INSECTS, ZAM-BUK is invaluable. Obtainable from
all Medicine Vendors, at 1 /(>, or 3/0 FAMILY SIZE (containing nearly four times the
quantity), or from THE ZAM-BUK CO., 39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
gsd
RUB IT
The Royal Horticultural Society of London
has been exhibiting a rare orchid, named Cyripe-
dium Chamberlainum, so named by a collector
who sent it to England some ten years ago. Since
then it has flowered, and the significance of the
title is made more apparent by the screw shape of
its petals.
C. STRATMANN’S a
FINE....
CHOCOLATES
SWEETHEATS
Made on tiie
Premises
124 PITT STUtzei i,
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Roonn
Fresh Bvery Day.
I SOFTENS the
HARSHEST BEARS
9
gds
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
Every Bar weighs 17 Hor.est
English Ounces, divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never be without it. . |
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
JL
VeryOldVatted
■' 1 "<i | "»
kb*
Liqueur Whisky.
Distilled Bcßottled by
Kilmarnock Scotland.
| .''OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
J- ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” -a®
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. IF. ELLIS,
W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS
gsd
Awarded Grand Prize,
St. Louis Exposition, 1904.
GREENER’S
CLUB RIFLES 310 &29 7/230
Best in the market tor Kangaroo
and Ladies’ Rifle Clubs.
All Riflemen should read “ For Sport and
War,” by W. W. GREENER. 180 Pages,
100 Illustrations, Posted 1/2.
GREENER’S CUNS and RIFLES—a Large
Stock on hand.
Catalogues and Price Lists on application
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne
(Greener’s Representative)
WEAK MADE STRONG !
g
OUR Electric Appliance
pours glowing, exhilar-
ating Vitality into you
whileyousleep. RAnimates
the sluggish circulation,
Stimulates the Brain to
Activity, and fills the body
with Life, Ambition, and
Endurance. It furnishes
the Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energy and Vigor. Catalogue and Price List
Post Free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
ASK ill i wii
FRANZ JOSEF LASER
PURE, WHOLESOME and INVIGORATING. There is Nothing Better.
E. T. WALSH,
LEADING SYDNEY
•k^TAILOR.
AUTUMN SUITINGS
Best Materials. New Patterns. Expert Cutting. No Factory Work.
SAMPLES AND MEASURE FORMS SENT TO ANY ADDRESS.
The Largest and Best-Appointed Establishment in the Commonwealth for making
Ladies’ and Gent.’s Suits. Inspection Invited.
359 George Street, Sydney
A note from “Genung,” which seems to
have some bearing on the recent pronouncement
that beer and devotion to the ladies can’t run to-
gether in quantities:—
Cairo is the most sober city I have ever visited. The
inhabitants are Mohammedans, to whom whisky is an
abomination and beer a crime. During the months I
spent there I fell over only two drunks ; and, judging- by
their language, they were Australians.
The keen, alert Cairoite turns away from wine and
whisky, and satisfies himself with two substitutes—coffee,
black, strong and delicious, and ladies, likewise black
and strong.
Down in the fish market, behind fashionable Cairo, one
can realise how low down a man can be dragged by tee-
totalism. Lill’ Buk-street, in Melbourne, and Broken
Jug-street, in Sydney, are side-walks in Paradise in com-
parison. But there are no pubs.
Here the gentlemen from the land of the Sphinx sits
nightly sipping his coffee and watching nude girls doing
the bestial “danse ii ventre.” This dance but This
Bulletin is not that sort of paper, and takes a little
liquor. And the sober Egyptian goes along the
narrow lanes of the fish market, smoking his cigar-
ette, and jokes with many an ugly, half-naked
Phyrne as she sits at her grille by her naphtha lamp, or
for a change visits “ ye lady from ze Bruzzel ” round the
corner—or worse.
But he never gets tight. His religion won’t allow him.
A story of early Bendigo. At the time
of the White Hills rush, in the fifties, three
diggers were the collective owners of a horse
named Thomas, which, in those days of big nug-
gets and scarce fodder, was worth about £100.
With oats at 18s. a bushel, two of them grew tired
of feeding the neddy, and decided to sell. The
third, however, refused to part with Thomas, and
squared matters by paying his mates £33 6s. 8d.
each. It was not an easy matter to retain horse-
flesh in those roaring times, and the sole proprietor
was accustomed to sleep with Thomas haltered
alongside him. One morning he woke up to find
himself in the company of a foot or two of rope,
but no Thomas. The ordinary horse-stealing
story ends there, but this one didn’t. A month
or so later, when horse Thomas had been almost
forgotten, that faithful animal turned up at the
tent-door clad in a brand-new saddle and bridle,
and a saddle-bag containing 221b. weight of gold.
The embezzler had sold Thomas to a digger, who
was preparing to carry his gold to Melbourne when
the animal took a yearning for home and -straight-
way satisfied it. The gold wasn’t returned.
There’s a moral to this legend, but opinions differ
about the exact nature of it. Probably it reads :
Be kind to Thomas, the horse, so that he Will
want to return to you, and may bring some one
else’s property with him.
The first passes in the recent examination held
by the Public Service Board for shorthand writers and
typists were gained by students of Stott and Hoare’s
Business College.*
An advertisement appearing in our columns
directs attention to the concert to be given by the
Philharmonic Society on Good Friday, in tlie Melbourne
Town Hall, in the presence of Lady Talbot, when Gounod’s
“ Mors et Vita” will be performed.*
The new medical remedy, Laxatine, is, as the
name implies, an aperient, and that it is not in the ex-
perimental stage is evidenced by its being the favorite
laxative throughout Europe. It is introduced to Aus-
tralia in the belief that it will prove peculiarly suitable to
this climate. In small lozenge form, of delicate flavor, at
one shilling per box. It is acceptable to ladies and chil-
dren, being pleasant to take, yet gentle but sure in opera-
tion.*
Another of the Reid Government’s
triumphs seems likely to be frost-bitten in the
bud. With Treasurer Turner’s help the
had, it was lately announced, “settled the long
standing difficulty with regard to silver coinage in
Australia.” Now it turns out that the kind
Motherland, which has been supplying Australia
with silver coins at 100 per cent, profit, won’t
agree to withdraw more than £100,000 of the
coins a year ; and as there are £2,300,000 worth of
silver tokens in Australia, it would take 23 years
to complete the process. Meantime the kind
Motherland wants Australia to take back the gold
coins with which we supply her (at a loss), when
she wears them out; and Treasurer Turner isn’t
swallowing any one-sided arrangement of that
sort. But heaven knows what the may
not be swallowing when the little grey Treasurer
isn’t looking hard that way.
Oppositionist Mackinnon points out that
Bent’s electric line to Brighton was previously
condemned in unmeasured terms by the Railways
Standing Committee. Where estimated costs
are under £20,003, the Standing Committee is not
called upon to advise, so this trip the estimate for
Tommy’s tram is carefully kept down to £19,500,
and there is no official pointing out of the fact that
it is a “mug’s game” to build an electric line to run
in competition with the State railway line and
liberally feed the tram co.’s service at St. Kilda
terminus. The electric line will terminate within
a few yards of where the tram company’s line be-
gins, and yet Mr. Bent calls this “feeding the
railways.” The railway station is about a mile
away.
CYCLISTS.
sd
HARD
RIDING
CYCLIST
# ' ALWAYS RIDES VULCANISED \
DUNLOP
TYRES
tl UiQC Porabi.b Tvrbs undoubtedly give tht Celt
resiilU oo rough Australian Roads.
Roadster Tyres
Guaranteed 15 Months 1 ?
6KWARS Or IMITATIONS. V ■
Mora Oonuino
without this £*T
T r*a«
Cbe Dunlop Pneumatic tyre Co.
09 AuttrcUm*
f All States and New Zealand. - '
[N.S. W. Depot
150. Clarence Street,
Sydney,


-
> - ;
mm
'■*y '
'
rjm
£
y
/
v ,<
%
A#
i*
%
ft
m
3
%
<-*v
Is
««$»
>4
H
y
s
*r\>
Vf
<
<
€
k ■<•
?v
Is
~'v
J;
>*>
TvSl‘3
*?7l
:^m
s»
to:*
Sff
N
s.
\
VC
'•v
\
1
'::
V.
>n
•wJ
V
* # V*
\
m.
M
Jf &L %*«s
E
w >
y
■
v-
K
S-'Sf
*
v
A
m
ySP*
*•-
r
9
aiSM
in"
/
*
V
WfcjP*
I
#
#1
#
>5
ft
r*.
*
<
I
Si
i
U
n
>S'
w
• B"
H -' : :
S si
nS
.3*
n s r^S
*aK £sKfc£ *. s Hi
-ft*,-
Safe
INr,f2
3Bp3
• BOX
GAN GROW ANYTHING
CP/frO.ePl, twcyLcJu
of qJoouE sOftxf.Q fo iwJioJt' ,£ of /(O'UTOOOf’
> Su fJttJruf fs> ,fc W<£" fuUoM, e.dtaJu aoUfiM A^o
//zW, fo -. y /WfAd art MvfU ff CLpfff/ to l Af' AffoA)
3i- 3- '<J6S /a (s■ /vduhutL Ma^ < r - .
gds


v -'U' l ''
>
-
m
m
|>pr
mi
'■ ■
y ■ »
, V.
KWEte\
*
'» ••
$ Vi
• *** • •
# , .'A ** *
X
*• *'
■’ '
\sr d ■ J* *
■'**. mWWjfr 1 1**
a ' v
jp
" -I
pv
<#*
;«•
ft
-> »
■•. ■
:p«X
*#•
m. -**.
*
m
,4 *
i-frr
V-
i*
%
if - *
C 3
• *r
>
«*
,»
■ I.
" 4 f
*»«n
4
■
4, v -
! -X
X
1 l
I
-
:-V
Xv% !'-;
"a 5a
:r, *
4-
/
!Kl
H
p4-*,
S?*r.
■ •
rX.XrtX*
*«
_'iV'v
I*2
A*3, ' * «,-»•
w
■
mmmm
>J?A V.
**.f
4 %j
y
a
'--v.
. A,,* wvrz*
: mS&i i yjc'v*:»s.-
»'SS
; S »
C^4
*5
FV •' *
h: .^X>; ~
tev-S'X
iW
Pi*
E-Pi
Ate
A'o
:•••■
if-
>V' V t
':**'■
<.!
'XX a:
•s**»
S? \ .^vP
iSP
twiYsi
' «>\- Li. ’
« v*f
SRS9
, >. V
v 3*»-
iT.^
■A*
f**
rx-
K
# % ,-«r y
..Pf
*
: w*
E
%
v
'•
>*■7:
i • H
■X'
5^
A
m*
■*mi.
r^jUfc
>? /
'4f|
■ *i
f. f
• ri
ni
Ki
TV>
>;#
*Sf2
> •.•• :'
■V
? *^C<ap^P!Sfecl
3i
GAN GROW ANYTHING
Ml ALL CREEK ESTATE, Inverell Land District, New South. Wales. (Closer Settlement Act 1904 i
Notice is hereby given that the Myall Creek Estate, recently acquired by the State Government, and adjacent suitable Crown lands in all r non ’ , ,
ranging in area from 240 to 1,380 acres, and will become available for application under the Closer Settlement Act of 1904 on the “>sth A mil'lonf i ? a ™ be ? n su Wi«ded into 138 Farms,
Settlement. The climate is healthy, and the rainfall, averaging 31J inches per annum for the past twenty-three years is ample In addition thJ -J ar ’ dK i aflbrd SP** I ® l advantages for Closer
" ell , s - J he soil » "'cb chocolate or red on the slopes, with rich black soil on the ?' ea - aad -ater
oeLuement. j.ne enmate is neaitny, ana the rainian, averaging inches per annum fi
may be easily obtained almost anywhere by sinking wells. The soil is rich chocolate or red'on the slopes, wit£ on “"“i ' t - S ‘ l : ibut< i ries traverse the area, and water
cu ‘t'™'“ t ' of wheat, maize, barley, potatoes, and other cereal and root crops, with dairying, pig-raising, and poultry-farming or sheep-furmin" The soil is ,|I Jnf- ti admirably adapted for mixed farming, such as
DEPOSIT. The deposit to be paid by an applicant when lodging his application* cent of the val/e of tKS.should the va“e of he farm 9O ,'h ** or^ineyardl
symerits extending over thirty-eight years. Applications must be lodged with the Crown Land Agent, Inverell and may be either iShJs ■ Cl .° OO . the deposit will be LOO. The balance can
between Tuesday, the 25th, and Saturday, the 29th of April, 1905, inclusive, will be dealt with specially 1« (tic f „„,i A personally or forwarded by registered post.
at an y ‘™ e > ° r b y 5 , Pot cent payments extending over thirty-eight years. Applications must be lodged with the Crown Land Agent, Inverell and may be citWbJLed i,*"' , w,1 ‘ ,Je ' J he balance can
SPEClAL.— Applications lodged on and between Tuesday, the 25th, and Saturday, the 29th of April, 1905, inclusive, will be dealt with specially by the Local Land Boaid P ers ? nall >’ ° r forwarded by registered post.
it will be most expedient for all applicants to be present in order that they may present their cases fully, and that those entitled may obtain of the ‘r"? 7 I !‘ verel J> °n Tuesday, the 2nd May, 1905, when
Pa 2Sw^T B ’*f a^ S ’ and further information of the fullest kind, respecting the Estate, may be obtained at the offices of all Crown in the State and P ? • for immediately after the Board’s determination
SPECIAL CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS. -Notice is hereby given that the Railway Commissioners will issue cheap fckets at the rate of d <«Z Br^ th of tlle Apartment of Lands SydZ.
8tatl01 ? f , lhe S ‘ ate t 0 Inverell; minimum fare, 10a Tickets will issue to Inverell at any station in the Stated New South Wales from 19th to OuTm’ a .“ 1 , lc ’. one wa L second-class return, from any
1 10th May. inclusive These tlel-ets win eelv he esented ee nee.,..et.ee ef . e.-eU V_ C T Ag( , nt , or other authorised OffiriTof £od aVailabl « for return Up
from Sydney and stations on the Northern Line by trains leaving Sydney
31-3-1905,
vsnnar llUilh/lb.—JNotice is hereby given that the Railway Commissioners will issue cheap E
railway station in the State to Inverell; minimum fare, 10s. Tickets will issue to Inverell at any station in the State of"
to 10th May, inclusive. These tickets will only be granted on production of a certificate, signed by any Crown Lands Agent, or other authorised offickf of the m^ ,usiv f’ and wiJl be available for return up
for land, and that they are travelling for that purpose only. Tickets at the above special rate will be issued from 19th April to 2nd May inclusive available for iS , l f he Purchasers are intending applicant
from -«”• “ **“ T; “ V " “• J Mondays and Wednesdays only, and from the Southern, Sontlf Witera ! oth . 1905 - The tickets will l” iss ucd
‘ ™ mV1 ’ n ' Sydney ° n ilonda J s “nd Wednesdays.
- EDWARD MACFARLANE, Under Secretary for Lands.
gds


THE HIQH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
DAY
For Blouses,
Nightdresses
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & a .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: " ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
68
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
•w. C. ELDKIDGE & GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary llall).
Country Orders by post f rom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
An Exceptional Chance,
FARM BLOCKS ON EASY TERMS.
On the Main Southern Line,
45 Miles from Sydney.
1 mile from the Railway Station.
The Nepean Towers Estate
DOUGLAS PARK.
Bounded by the Kepean
and Cataract Rivers and
Allen’s Creek.
This historic estate has been cut up into blocks from
1 to 180 acres, and these are for Private Sale, with or
without the standing timber,
From £2 10s. and £3 per acre.
NOTE THE TERMS.
IS. in the & deposit, and
balance in <5O equal monthly
or 20 quarterly, or 10 half-yearly payments, with 3d.
Interest on every £ owin r —at
the beginning of each quarter.
Possession given directly deposit is paid.
Plans and Books of Views posted free.
ARTHUR RICKARD & CO., Ltd.,
Falmouth Chambers, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
LT.PIV£F^S
Fl£> f? a wy E
THE LATEST PARISIAN PERT UMS.
Wholesale Only.
MID DOWS BROTHERS,
73 C/arence-street,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth,
Adelaide, and Wellington, N.Z.
Amusements.
Princes’ Court, Melbourne.
THE PREMIER PLEASURE GROUND OF
AUSTRALASIA.
CANADIAN WATER=CHUTE,
CAMEL=BACI< TOBOGGAN,
Cafe Ciiantant, Mysterious Myosa, Great Dragon
Tugaroo, Rifle Range, Japanese Tea House,
Military Band. Daily, 2.30 to 11 p.m.
A. L. BAIRD, Gen. Manager.
ROYAL AGRICULTURaT SOCIETY OF
NEW SOUTH WALES,
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW,
19th to 27th APRIL, 1905.
PRIZES £3500. PRIZES
SPECIAL EXCURSION TRAINS ALL LINES.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
RETURN of the FAVORITES,
Mr. JULIUS KMICHT and Miss MAUD JEFFRIES.
SATURDAY NIGHT NEXT, APRIL 15,
Mr. Williamson will present the Great Spectacular
Napoleonic Play,
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
SCOTTISH ENTERTAINER,
Miss Jean Howison, of Perth, Scotland,
Interpreter of
ROBERT BURNS and lAN MACLAREN.
Address : Tiie Bulletin.
Amusements.
FITZGERALD BROS.’
COLOSSAL CIRCUS, MENAGERIE
AND ELEPHANT SHOW.
BEL MORE BARK:.
EASTER SEASON. EASTER SEASON.
Commencing SATURDAY, APRIL 15.
Direct from London, per s.s. Seydlitz,
THE HERBERT TROUPE
of AERIAL GYMNASTS, in the LOETY DOME of
COLOSSAL SNOW-WHITE TENTS.
THE ELEPHANTS,
with COEYANNA, THE ELEPHANTINE BABY.
THE FAMOUS JAPANESE SUMO WRESTLERS.
A HUNDRED STARS WILL BLAZE NIGUTI.Y IN
THE CIRCUS FIRMANENT.
THE BEAUTIFUL HORSES.
THE STRANGE WILD ANIMALS.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
And WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 8.
A SUPERB BAND.
PERFECT LIGHTING, EVERY COMFORT AND
CONVENIENCE IN SEATING.
BELMORE PARK. BELMORE PARK.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s, and Is.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. FRANK JONES, Agent.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in the Colossal
Attraction,
THE ORCHID .
For Brilliancy in Mounting, Hilarity and Tunefulness
has never been surpassed in Sydney.
Box Plan at Paling’s. SW PRICES AS USUAL.
RITE RION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. GEO. STEPHENSON.
SATURDAY NEXT 1 SATURDAY NEXT i
MR. GEO. STEPHENSON’S
ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY
IN
THE SKIRT DANCER.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
-|- OW N HALL, SYDNEY.
Commencing GOOD FRIDAY NIGHT, APRIL 21,
AND SHORT SEASON TO FOLLOW,
THE FAMOUS
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS.
NEW ARTISTS, including
MR. CLARENCE TISDALE, a Tenor of Great Merit.
MR. EMMETT JONES, one of America’s Leading BASSOS.
R. COLLINS, Manager.
QUEEN’S HALL, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 15.
THE AMAZON GIANTESS,
ABOMA H,
THE TALLEST LADY IN THE WORLD.
All Sydney will flock to see this Huge Specimen
of Humanity.
Admission Is. ; Children Half-price.
WIRTH BROS’.
CIRCUS, HIPPODROME
AND
HUGE ZOO.
AUSTRALIA’S OLDEST, LARGEST, AND BEST
AMUSEMENT INSTITUTION.
Prince Alfred Park, Sydney
(EXHIBITION GROUND),
OPENING SATURDAY, APRIL 15.
FOR TWO WEEKS ONLY.
FRESH WILD ANIMALS DIRECT FROM INDIA.
NEW IMPORTED ARTISTES DIRECT FROM EUROPE.
Advertising Only What We Have.
Truthfully Performing Everything Advertised.
By Keeping Our Word with You for 25 years w’e have
also Kept Your Confidence.
DON’T FORGET LOCATION. Leave all Trams at Railway.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is. Plan at Paling’s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
A HUGE SUCCESS, JEd A. R _A_.
AN ARTISTIC TRIUMPH,
MISS ALICE PIERCE.
THE FOUR FIGAROS, HARRY TAFT.
SATURDAY, APRIL 15, THE MAGIC KETTLE.
PERAHOUSE,M E L B O U R N E.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
IITTIC THOM WORLD’S GREATEST
LI I I LC 8 1 U ri, COMEDIAN.
PROF. DAVY’S GIANT MARIONETTES.
BELLA PERMAN, FRANK YORKE, MAUD PERMAN.
STEVE ADSON, Irish Comedian. JESSIE THOME, Seri®
Comic. JAMES ROBERTS, Basso Vocalist.
WiNTON, Ventriloquist, and M'CINTY.
Great Success of NAT TRAVERS, Coster Comedian.
Pian at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING,
GRAND REVIVAL of Offenbach’s Great Military
Spectacular Comic Opera,
La Fille du Tambour Major.
Exceptionally Powerful Cast of Distinguished Artists.
Prices of Admission —45., 2s. 6d., 2s. & Is. Early Door Is.
Extra. Box Plan at Allan’s ; opening MONDAY,
APRIL 3, at 9 a.m.
j |FB ft/iA. 1 ERTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SAT. NEXT, APRIL 15, the Celebrated Irish Comedian,
ANDREW MACK,
and HIS OWN COMPLETE COMPANY of PLAYERS in.
TOM MOORE,
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES,.
WEDNESDAYS.
“pRINCES’ COURT,” MELBOURNE.
LAST WEEK ! LAST WEEK l
MISS ANNETTE
KELLERMANN,
Champion Lady Swimmer of Australasia.
PRIOR to HER DEPARTURE for EUROPE.
GOOD FRIDA Y.
PHILHARMONIC SOCIETY’S CONCERT,
“MORS ET VITA.”
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL
FULL ORCHESTRA and CHORUS.
o s o, ls . R. J. OEIIR, Secretary.
North White Feather, Kanowna (W.A.), has
gone the way o{ its immediate neighbor, W.F. Main Beefs,
the reef being split up and poor at 500 ft. It is a great
disappointment, as reef looked so strong and solid at
400 ft. that manager Mills was quite satisfied it would live
to any workable depth. Apparently quartz reefs in W. A.
are a delusion and a snare. Up to date the only quartz
reef in country that has lived down and carried its gold
is Great Fingall’s.
* * * *
S. Australia is working up one of its periodical
spurts, assaying 10 per cent, mining and 90 per cent,
syndicating. Two old goldfields are having attention ; one
of them in the north-west, towards Broken Hill; the
other at Tarcoola. In the former big, droughty district,
S. Aus. had its chief alluvial gold-rush, at Teetulpa, 20
years ago ; and in the hills gold veins can be found in
scores of places. Many small crushings have been put
through, but nothing big has been found. Tarcoola, in
the far-north, has given £BO,OOO of gold in four years ;
but expenses are heavy, and the £BO,OOO must have cost,
paying fairly for prospectors’ time, £200,000. Lately a
new reef has been struck by the Tarcoola West syndicate,
and a 7oz. surface result is boomed ; but it is just as well
to add to the published hifalutin’ that the prospectors
picked out pieces showing gold, and dollied them, and got
the result mentioned. It is, nevertheless, a promising
show, a long way off.
The Adelaide people who gave the gem-stones
(tourmalines chiefly) of Kangaroo Island a good trial have
thrown up the sponge. Some very beautiful stones were
got; but they couldn’t strike anything except very low-
priced gems.
* * * »
The Bulletin would like to hear how the gem-
miners on the Anakie (Q.) field are getting on. Australian
sapphires have hitherto been chiefly exported to Europe,
but they now promise to become a local fashion. Some
Anakie yellow sapphires shown in Sydney and Brisbane
are of beautiful color and far more lustrous than the best
Ceylon article.
• • • •
The chairman of the Emu Bay Railway Co.
scattered a few grains of comfort to the shareholders in
that distressful concern in Melbourne the other day ; the
sweetest of them was that receipts from the main line had
been £9961 for the first three months of the year against
£BO3O for the same part of last year.
* * * *
Mildura still remains the one Australian inland
irrigation settlement which has battled through years of
bitterness to reasonable success. Total area irrigated is
less than 9000 acres, on which a population of about 4000
is supported. N.S.W. homestead lessees, in similar coun-
try, reckon that nothing short of 20,000 acres will support
a family without irrigation. Fruit (fresh and dried) to
the value of £150,000 was produced last year. There have
been some astonishing individual returns. Ordinary
raisin vines do not yield more than £25 or £3O gross value
per acre, and the average would not be more than £2O
gross. But there are rare growers who have had over £lOO
per acre from table raisins. Gross returns from sultana
vines have ranged from £6O to £l2O per acre, and
in one case returns from a small vineyard have reached £l4O
per acre for three years running ; but the returns will
slump as soon as production exceeds Australian consump-
tion, which will shortly be the case. Mildura output of
raisins last year was 1700 tons, about 300 tons in excess of
total Australian requirements ; and Mildura growers were
obliged to export nearly 700 tons of the fruit to London, “in
order to prevent the glutting of local markets,” as it was
neatly put. Early shipments were generally admitted to
be superior to the European and Asiatic article, but later
lots coming into competition (as old season’s fruit) with
new season’s Valencias fell flat; and 160 tons are now
being re-imported into Australia to make good the
deficiency in this year’s crops. Mildura growers were
very hard hit by the midsummer heat-wave, which
reduced the raisin crop from a probable 2000 tons to 600,
and sultanas from a possible 1000 to a little over 300 tons.
Many of the orchards originally planted proved unpro-
fitable, and have been uprooted, and it is to the raisin
and sultana vines that the settlement owes its recovery
from the slump that for years threatened to wipe it out.
T. M. Slattery’s case will give the trustee co.’s
a lift —and, probably, also the movement to establish a
public trustee’s office. The trustee co. has at least its
capital to guarantee its fidelity ; and in most cases, if its
paid capital is small, its subscribed capital is considerable.
The Perpetual of Sydney, for instance, has £25,000 paid
and £975,000 uncalled ; and when shareholders are liable
for £9 15s. a share, they can be depended on to keep a
moderately sharp eve on the management—which takes a
lot of the responsibility off the man who is dead or has
gone away.
* • 4 *
The Randlords are beginning to think that
they never knew what trouble was till they met Ah
Sin. The Johannesburg correspondent of the Mining and
Engineering Journal (N. York), a mine-owners paper,
wails as follows :
“Bret Harte’s story about the ‘wily Chinee’ is no
exaggeration, as we are beginning to find out. A certain
percentage were ‘ born tired,’ and no matter where you
put them they seem to do very little work. They do
quite well at forging. It is the custom of the mines to
pay the hammer men so much per inch drilled. One of
these never did more than 12 inches. Suddenly his
ticket handed in at the office showed 72 inches. This
record kept up for several days, until the head time-
keeper discovered that the Chinaman had found out the
art of changing a 1 into 7. At first the number of
‘Chinese who flocked to the hospital was embarrassing.
A very tedious drill was instituted for convalescents,
some violent medicine was given to the sick, the con-
valescent were given light work for a week, receiving no
pay whatever. The percentage of sick dropped as mer-
cury does before a blizzard, and now it is no exaggeration
to say that very few Chinamen go to the hospital unless
they are really ill.”
By the way, it is so like the Randitti to include in their
course of medicine “ light work for a week without pay.”
* * * •
D. : Argument that a co.’s capital is borrowed
money, and that there isn’t any more harm in a country
borrowing than in a co. issuing shares—that, in fact, the
two processes are the same—is all wrong. If a co. raised
money on its assets, and then sold those assets, and used
the proceeds as revenue, and thereupon went out and
borrowed more money to run the business and pay divs.,
instead of making calls on the shareholders, or if it didn’t
charge shareholders a reasonable amount for services it
was rendering them, it would be doing something like
what Australian borrowing States have done.
‘ ‘ 535 ” : Most primitive school I ever saw
was at Twelve Mile (Q.). Rough slabs, iron roof,
unlined, unpainted ; undressed boards on stumps
for desks and seats. The tank was a bucket. The
roof sloped so that at the back the teachers crown
was five inches from Hades. Teacher lived at
“ one of the parents’,” where her room resembled
“ the school,” and a newly-blazed track connected
.the two.
New “ have,” so far as this paper is con-
cerned : The story of a cross-counter :
It was the first “ smoko ” after dinner. We had all
finished rubbing our “ tongs,” and were spread about the
(board in more or less picturesque attitudes, when Speewa
remarked to the Brolgan :
“ Is that the pair of pants you bought out of the
pawnshop ?”
“No!” snorted the Brolgan, “I never bought any-
thing out of a pawnshop in my life.”
“ Bet you a quid that’s where you got them, anyway,”
persisted Speewa.
“ What’s the good of bettin’,” said the Brolgan—“ you
ain’t got any proof?”
“ Never mind,” said Speewa ; “ put up your stuff, and
we’ll get Burke to act as referee.”
The Brolgan reluctantly rose, took down his coat, from
an inner pocket extracted a “ quid,” and handed it to
Burke. This was covered by Speewa.
“Now,” said the latter, “ did you buy those pants in a
pawnshop ? ”
“ Tell yer I didn’t!" replied the Brolgan.
“ Then,” yelled Speewa, triumphantly, “ you must
have bought them out of one, and the tvvo quid’s mine.
See ? ”
“ Hold on a bit,” said the Brolgan, quietly—“l never
bought ’em at all; I shook ’em. See ? ”
Then the bell rang.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A syndicate is to give Kaigoorlie (W. A.) a new theatre.
Building is to cost £15,000.
“ Woodki ” : There’s this to he said for the coon song
(B. 6 4/’05)), that it very rarely descends to “dirt,” unlike
the ordinary “comic,” with its invariable lodger-and-
missus gag.
Actor George Coppin completed his 86th year on
Saturday, April 8. He and that other George, who is now
J-Prime Minister, are among the most successful comedians
Australia has known.
Miss Margaret Thomas, mezzo-soprano of the Parkina-
Foldesy Concert Co., makes her debut on the stage as
Nauova, a Oingalee maid, in the “ Cingalee,” at Sydney
Her Majesty’s, Easter next, unless recent law proceedings
prevent the production.
Andrew MacCunn, conductor at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
is a Scotchman, son of a Greenock shipbuilder, and
brother to the well-known composer, Hamish MacCunn,
whose operas, “Diarmid” and “Jeanie Deans,” were
performed successfully some years ago by the Carl Rosa co.
The girls who flock to matinee shows in Melbourne are
much interested in Miss Maud Jeffries’ matrimonial affairs.
“Where is her husband?” is the first whisper that you
hear along the circle. When they have at last spotted
the plump Osborne, the sentimental girleens watch for a
chance look between the pair, and they go away quite
angry with their Maud if she doesn’t give a wifely glance
at her way-back actor-hubbie.
Veteran Howard Vernon talked interestingly to a
Wellington (M.L.) interviewer. He mentioned the
“stars” he had starred with—the majestic Barnett, the
gentle Leonora Braham, Clara Merivale, and, in answer
to the query as to which was the best of the bunch, said—
“ Oh, Nellie, of course—Nellie Stewart. God gave her a
great many gifts, I know, but she has supplemented them
with hard work, and she now is without a doubt one of
the greatest all-round artists in the world. Her last act in
‘Camille,’ as I saw it in Sydney, is a very fine bit of
emotional acting.” Vernon likes Vernon in “Rip Van
Winkle ” best.
“ Drift ” : For the good of his audience it is quite
possible for a man to have too good a reputation as a
joker. Witnessed the “ Orchid ” from a back-stall seat,
and scarcely heard Lauri through a single line, owing to
ante-appreciation. As the grin preparatory to a joke
swooped across his face, and the first word of it exploded
among the scenery, a roar of laughter from audience
drowned his sally a hundred fathoms deep. A lOh.p.
shrieker at my elbow invariably smothered at its birth
what might have been a good joke ; then asked through
her hysterics what it was. The low-spirited and dys-
peptic, who have to hear the witticism in order to raise a
smile, are robbed of their best medicine by frivolous people
with a hair-trigger laugh.
“ Melb.” : Miss Alice Pierce, at the Opera House, is an
object-lesson in the overwhelming applause lavished on
her, as much as when Cinquevalli holds up a man, chair,
table and newspaper in his mouth or balances a spring
cart on his chin. Alice is intensely human. She drops
into the programme just as Madame Slapoffski did once
at this theatre, when her song of Jerusalem was sand-
wiched in between two banalities and electrified the
gallery. Miss Pierce gives that one touch of nature which
makes the whole world kin, though she only does it in re-
productions of Mrs. Leslie Carter, Ellen Terry, Ada Reeve,
Edna May, and the New York hoodlum. It has often
been pointed out that Mr. Rickards is in danger of heap-
ing up the merely curious. When Disraeli saw the
woman shot from a cannon at the Aquarium, Montague
Corry remarked, “ Difficult feat.” “ Yes,” said Dizzy, “ I
wish it were impossible.”
Harrie Chambers, the youth with the Higinbothamically
monumental forehead, who used to be a pressman in
Sydney, while his elder brother, Haddon Chambers, was
scoring as a dramatic author in London, has had a play (a
4-act comedy) produced most successfully in New York.
His “Abigail,” written round the love and other adven-
tures of a New England girl who seeks her fortune in New
York, gets great praise from the best local papers. The
Evening Journal describes it as “ a very nice play, very
witty, and sometimes touchingly human, light as a snow-
flake, but just as pretty and as glistening as a snowflake in
the sunlight.” And the Herald says it is “ dainty, refined,
now pathetic and again amusing, with bright lines. A
clean and wholesome story.” The Evening Sun says there
are those pearls of greatest theatrical price—real tears—
in the second act; and all the papers agree that the young
author’s speech in returning thanks on the first night was
the neatest of utterances.
“Snell”: Met an Australian ex-actor in a Melbourne
suburban market the other morning. He was still clean-
shaven, and he was selling poultry to bargaining women
from boarding houses, and bringing to the work all the
arts and graces and the elocution that made his second-
rate parts in Shakspeare noteworthy in a day that is
gone. The way he declaimed, “ Excellent chickens,
ladies, excellent chickens, on my word of honor as a
gentleman—born of my own eggs, bred on my own lands,
tender as mercy, plump as partridges, and two for twc-
and six ! ” was really fine, and accounted for the excellent
business he was doing. I asked him why he had taken to
chicken-fanning. “It was the eggs,” he said. “Old
associations, you know.”
“Tot”: “ Autolycus,” discussing players of the seven-
ties in Melbourne Argus, is delighted with the smart
replies in Charles Mathews’ farewell speech at the old
Royal to a gallery boy’s interjection, “ What about Ben-
digo? ” where Mathews failed to give satisfaction. Three
minutes after the delivery of the address, present writer
asked Mathews for the written document, and found it
contained the gallery boy’s query, smart replies and all,
properly punctuated and ready for the printer. Like
many other humorists, Mathews was an artist in the pre-
meditated impromptu line.
Lottie Lome has been giving imitations of her husband,
the late Johnny Coleman, at the Orpheum, Manila.
Some local theatre goers resented this. Miss Lome
in defence states that she knows almost nothing out-
side of what her husband taught her and asks time to
prepare a repertory.
Augustus Thomas has dramatised Charles Dana
Gibson’s “Education of Mr. Pipp” series of drawings;
the play is now running at the Liberty Theatre, New
York. Pipp, the tiny multi-millionaire, played by Digby
Bell, is, of course, the hero, and the fun of the play lies in
the crushed worm attitude this bulwark of the Steel
Trust assumes in the presence of his gigantic wife and
bouncing daughters.
At a suburban theatrical performance in Melbourne
recently the even tenor of the play was interrupted by a
sudden dash on the part of a stout red lady, who climbed
up the side steps leading to the stage, and laid violent
hands on the soubrette, claiming her in a shrill, fierce
voice as her run-away daughter, and hanging on so
valiantly that it was necessary to run down the curtain.
Loud arguments were then heard behind, and eventually
the performance was resumed, but the rosy face of the
determined mother was visible as she mounted guard
in the wings, keeping a watchful eye on the sad
soubrette.
“Tip”: A Poverty Pointer (B. 9/3/’O5), mentioning
some names of Camilles on the Australian stage, omits
the first and not the least distinguished—Mary Provost,
who flourished in ’59, with Neil Warner as Armand Duval.
Madame Majeroni, in more recent times, was alse very
fine in the character.
Sydney contralto, Miss Bertha Faning, is making a
good impression on the critics of the Cold Countrj-. This
tall, tuneful Australienne recently sang at Plymouth in
place of late Belle Cole, then ill, and got much ‘ local
press-patting.
Died suddenly in Adelaide, early this
week, John Darling, sen., founder of Australia’s
big wheat-milling and exporting firm, and father
of John, jun., S. Australian politician, and of
cricketer Joe. The elder Darling was something
in the engineering business in .Scotland 60 years
ago; coming to Australia he got a job humping
wheat; then he began to mill it; finally the firm
got so far into the business in four States that it
is said to have handled as much as 20,000,000
bushels in a year.
Alleged now that the sentence years’
imprisonment with hard labor) imposed by Mr.
Justice Pring on T. M. Slattery is technically
wrong. Under the Crimes Act (N.S.W.) the
lorigest term with hard labor that can be given is
for two years. For any greater term than two
years the sentence should be with penal servitude.
Received from the Law Book Co. of Aus-
tralasia “N.S.W. Justices’ Duties,” by barrister
D. S. Edwards. The purpose of the book is good
—to guide the J.P. in the discharge of his duties ;
and it seems to have been carried out conscien-
tiously and well.


WIRTH BROS
GRe&T^iXTec
OPENirsG s>YDrsnY
MrfJLJy. SKT- APRIL- 15T 1^
V
(exhibition CR^
NEXT R^rDFlßrs• *
STATIOM- j
(or^S UL -
GGGO
Th€ FAMOUS
'N'
Bovs/ieKpire
X
(lsuds n
W i ls_vJ e_s*T
SnONrJ-
poyl£- '
•To n (oiaoJTT*
Worlds
jumper •
• Oveß
C MaiRS. Or^
OFF A HAJSS
FACE.-
.RP
yFSAir^D
E.uißKPst'sTS *
rWTi
”TH a sNE.I_S
ACT
SE/\
WIRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS. OPENING SATURDAY, APRIL 15, PRINCE ALFRED PARK (EXHIBITION GROUNDS),
NEXT REDFERN RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.


Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
ttireetoe of Institutes.
two SPECIALISTS SPECIALITIES.'
tile name of the fHE FREEMAN & WALLACE INSTI-
TUTE, is associated with rapid and effective treatment,
applied to the Cure of Men suffering front SERIOUS BLOOD
DISORDERS, RUPTURE, BLADDER AILMENTS, CYSTITIS, 1
KIDNEY DISEASES, PROSTATIC GLAND AILMENTS,
URINARY IMPERFECTIONS, STOMACH AILMENTS or
i|ny claSs pi complaint affecting' the NERVOUS SYSTEM.
The Specialists! dPg as fdtriiliar Medically to the Australian
public fuind as the naine’3 df reighing Kings to the universe.
The secret of their distinguished b’drsfet'S lies in the fact they
euro where others fail.
A STAFF OF FOUR LEGALLY-QUALIFIED PHYSICIANS;
The Managing Director and founder of the Institute, Sydney
and Melbourne, controls a Qualified Staff of Four Expert
Physicians and Surgeons, who, through constant practice, i
know their disease as a child knows its.alphabel. They do not
pretend to treat all diseases ; they are Specialists only in Men’s
Disorders. The Physician-in-Chief, Dr. Richard Wallace, is
registered by Australian, English and American Medical j
Boards. lie makes no charge for friendly talks or advice by letter
£lOO,OOO POUNDS.
No less a sum than £lOO,OOO has been expended in per-
fecting THE FREEMAN & WALLACE INSTITUTE. New
inventions and methods of treatment of Diseases, discovered
by leading Scientists, are secured after their benefits have been
recognised by Physicians attached to leading continental hos-
pitals. All modern appliances for the successful application
of Electricity to combat disease are installed m the Institute.
The Freeman arid Wallace Electro-Medical
institute is, therefore, up-to-date. Its Physicians practice
modern methods of treatment. Hence the success of the
Institute in permanent cures it has effected.
A GOOD BOOK.—It tells every Weak Man howto
get strong. It explains the reason for the Early Decay 61
Manhood’s Strength and how Perfect Vigor is restored. It tells
how we have cured thousands of weak men in Australia during
the past five years. It is a beautifully illustrated 600-page
book. To any man who suffers from an early breaking down
of the Vital Powers it is invaluable. “ CLINICAL EXPERI-
ENCES,” 31 chapters, is the Book for Sick Men. It is com-
mended by hundreds of Australian newspapers. It posts
you Nothing. 'Send for it to-day. Post Free. No Charge,
'IS
ALIST?
WEBSTER defines the word Specialist to mean “One Who' devotes himself to a Speciality. ” The word
“ Speciality ” he defines as follows : “ That which is the special or particular calling of any person or business;
that for which a person is distinguished or which he makes the object of special attention.
According to these definitions, the followers of particular pursuits become Specialists-. In the early centimes
there were tio Specialists ; as the world advanced they became a necessity. The World discovered that the “ Jack-of-all-
tra<tes T Jfdes haV^dowTeeome individualised, knowledge centred in various pursuits, the twentieth century gives us five
thousand Specialities of occupation, Each man attends to his own business, and becomes perfect through following out his
amblt The Public recognises quickly the greatest good for the greatest number, especially in Medicine and Surgery, where
immediate good results to ills of Humanity. Medical science was once practically at a standstill, .proved by terrible
epidemics that swept across the world now subservient to scientific method . To-day we have the Specialist m Diseases of
Men, Who', naturally apt in studying certain forms of premature decay, combines with his aptitude that experience which he
has gained ifl lorig years of active practice.
The Freeman & Wallace Physicians & Surgeons
have a system of general disbursement of theif knowledge of treatment and cure of SPECIAL SPECIFIC AND
CONTAGIOUS AILMENTS OF MEN. They boldly tell the world what their success has been, what they do, and how
ithey do it. The Medical Practitioners constituting
their Staff are authorities on Chronic Ailments,
whose success for a series of years is attested by facts
incontrovertible.
By reason of the great cures effected and advertised,
the names of FREEMAN and WALLACE, as
Medical. Specialists, arc recognised and respected
throughout Australia. They do not profess to treat
all Diseases, but they cure those they treat. Any
man desirous of consulting their Medical Staff may
do so, and it will cost him the price of one letter or
post-card only. Correspondence will be replied to
punctually, but applicants for Professional opinion
upon SPECIAL DISK A SES. are requested to men-
tion the advertising source through which they apply.
The Freeman & Wallace Institute, Sydney
WE COURT THE CLOSEST INVESTIGATION.
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind that our treatment will
not'cure you, it is a duty you owe to yourself to write 5 to some of the
references we publish from week to week.-and'sendan addressed envelope
for reply.' 1 Ask any of the .attestants whd have given these testimonies to
us if they think we can benefit ypu. We court the closest-, jnvestigatifln..
Our Parcel Post System is a blessing to all sick men living in centres far
from medical men and aid.;, thousands of men would now be -in their
graves had we not so reached and treated them.
it- it. it 4 * *
FACTS THAT DEFY ARGUiVIENT.
We are treating' thousands of cases annually, and is it not-reasonable
to suppose that we'understand‘such cases better than those who are
treating only a few hundred ? * Prafjtice’makes perfect in' any line, and it
is none the less true in the treatments disease. You get the benefit
of Experience when you place your case in our hands. Do npt despair.
Order your treatment at once, and let us add your name 1 to our long list
of cures. __
The freeman gjjalcsse
Electro=Medical &
Surgical Institute,
Car. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., SYDNEY,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute. AND AT MEL3OSJRNSE.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.0.P., E., Ph,> sician-in-Ohief.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Principal Department of Women.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D
Physician- in-Cltief.
MAKES tiie SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
t
ftc9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL ANS
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHEK,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T**n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A. 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Giiirswade & Co., Melbourne.
Visitors to tKe Old'Cotmtry
m
<iS,
P Ar
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUr// HENS/NG TO//,
L.ONDON. S.IV.
K3T.'^
laJ
THE NEW LOUNGE: ONE OF THE FINEST IN
Self - c oivfc aiive d suites.
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THS MOST COMFORTABLB HOTEL !M
LONDON
LONDOM
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, Che Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
&2§r* BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. T*3
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMfNGHAH.
A NOVEL PRESENT.,
J®
0
N receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, wo.
In loot. G.P. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Coles
Cook Arcade, Melbourne. Vic.
A GOLD OR Sii-VER WATCh fREE.
SEND NO MONEY.
sdg
We hereby undertake to give one
of our famous Gold or Silver
Watches (Lady's or Gentleman s)
to every Man, Woman, or Child
who sends us the correct reading
of the following Puzzle..
T* # 5 [
The only condition is that, U
your answer is correct, you pur-
chase one of our SOLID SIER-
] ING SILVER CHAINS, or one
of our Gold-filled Warranted
Chains, to wear with the ft atch.
Simply forward your answer
and enclose stamped addressed
envelope, so that we may inform
you if you have won the Match.
We are making this offer solely
with the object of introducing
and advertising our goods. ,
forward your letter to our address..
001IMITP'*’ COIO'MAf CO.. Pitt St., Sydney.
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
ara tho
BEST.
sd
Sold
by ALL
Fibst-Class
Stores
in Australasia.
MO. 8176}
2 Blades 1 Pampa
Cocoa Handle - //6
Buffalo Handle - 2 -
Stag Handle - - - 2/S
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says:— “ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’ ;
D
Fop INFANTS, INVALIDS, cm! iho AGED.
FCO3 13 SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EYERYffHESL,
BEKCBH'3
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.'’
The Camel.
“ W. J. 8.” discourses about camels :
Let me supplement “G.E.’s” statement (B. 16/2/’O5)
that the white man manages camels better than the
nigger. Even as far back as '96, when I left W.A., the
white man’s superiority in this respect had been clearly
established, as was also the superiority of the camel bred
by white men to the nigger-bred, imported animal.
Oanil's bred by Thomas Elder in S,A, carried a 30 per
Cent, heavier load than the imported beasts, ftnd the
game breeder’s riding-camels easily travelled as far in twd
clavs a,s th,e .best Egyptian or Asiatic camel did in three ;
the .buying price of. a S. A.-bred camel being- often, twice
that tit thfe bthersi... .this.superiority .was due to the
. ©
White man's more scientific breeding; care bein
taken In. the selection of sires-whereas, the niggers
allow -their stock to breed haphazard. On Cue
goldfield once we saw a crowd of Afghans m?em
from a “must” bull-camel that had broken loose.
The niggers were t.oo scared to do anything but run
every time the brute charged ; but one Angus Nicholson
-an Australian-born white man—waited for the beast,
stepped aside, and, tempting him to turn got a grip'in
his nostrils, forced him to his knees, quickly' re-fastened
the staple in his nostrils, and subdued the brute.
Nearing a camel-camp one could always tell from ttie
appearance of the animals straggling after feed whether
White men or niggers were in charge ; nigger camels al
wstvs showing signs of ill-treatment and neglect. i_adule-
sefes oh their backs were often left until the animal
hfecame disabled, and there have been instances in which
an Afghan driver '‘doctored” a huge saddle sore by
covering it with bagging and stitching the bagging to the
poor brute’s skin with sewing-twine. This was to conceal
the sore, because the police were beginning to move in the
matter of protecting the camels from savage cruelty.
But-even With that, the saddest sight on the goldfields
was’a niggOr-drivell camel-train, finishing a long journey,
the poor brutes being covered with festering- sores, the
smell of Which made them unapproachable. The bull
camel, however, smells ugly enough at any time, and his
aroma clings to his loading, Flour, oatmeal, &c. (in fact,
all provisions not hermetically sealed), take the taint
strongly, and retain it in spite of cooking ; and, with a
delicate, stomach, the first mouthful of camel-tainted food
brings on vomiting.
Occasionally the camel is worked in harness. I ve seen
a team of four bringing a waggon-load of goods to the
field, guided by an Afghan, whose driving would have
made a bullocky weep. The animals were all dodging the
collar, and the nigger had no idea of getting them to pull
together. He just yelled like a fiend and walloped the
nearest shatter till it was exhausted. Then be wept and
cursed, and flogged the poor brute more ; till a digger
smote the callous pork-hater with a ham-bone, which ha
had kept on hand for unmistakably conveying to an>
Afghan our unfavorable opinion of him. The camel has
been tried with a buggy, and the Nannine Warden drove
a camel-tandem in this way ; but the animal’s build fits it
emphatically for carrying. The crack W. A. riding-camel,
in my day, was a S.A.-bred beast, owned by Broken Hill
Wilson. Ridden by a white man, this flyer put up records
far above anything done by a nigger camel.
Finally, the notion of the nigger’s special aptitude for
camel handling was invented and is kept alive by a section'
of the press for its own purposes just as the British lew.
and-Jingo press represents white workers as inferior to>
the Chinese coolie.


with Wound! that Diichkrgfe of othurwile. «&-
rouiuled with iiiftainm*tiph 4hd SWOlhen tnUt When you
press yolir finger oh tile inflAthe<J bAH if, leaves the imp res*
lion Vlf 10, undtor the 6klt) Vo\i have poiflon tli«t defies al.
the remedied yoh haVe tried, wh)eb,.if not extracted, you
h'ever qah rte'coVVr, hut go oh suffering till death releasei
Vou. .rerluips your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round whichthe skin
ihay be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. Vou may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURL VOIJ. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured
Send at once for
ALBERTS GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT And PILLS,
which aie a certain remedy for the CUre bfr Bid Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles,, Ppisoued
I lands, Tumours. Absc.esscii, SoVe Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunion!, ami lUhgW6rri\, , ,01 all Chemists. Stores,
kc. Price, lh GVeAt Britain, l/ljd. per b -x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 7J, Farringdori-street, London, England.
Agents •. XLLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look foi th• registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on each box. (Kegd copyrighM
LAXATINE
For all Liver, Ridiiey ami
Hemorrhoid Troubles.
fhfe iretv
IcleAl
Fiirgative
1 s.
Per Box.
fj
Reconi-,
mended
py the-
World’s
Best
Physicians
All
Chemists
and
Store*
keepers*
MfINUFD. BY THE
LAXATINE G? LTD.
PIInAPPCT HHWftA&V \/ f'non’TTYA.iitc^
HAIR TONIC.
The Finest Preparation ever Introducad for the
It&ir. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
tMMEDiATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
PKce 2/6; Posted 2/9*
Give rr a Triau
CRAIG AND AIT KEN,
Ladies' and Centlenlen's Hairdressars,
654 GEORGE St., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
***** <SAAA.A
A Mother’s
p)ESPITE the mother’s unremit-
ting care, how few of our
children pass through the tender
years of childhood free from all
ailments ! Happily there is some-
thing which can relieve the con-
stant anxiety of the intelligent
mother who well knows that
little ailments, if neglected, easily
become serious. This is SCOTT’S
EMUESION of cod liver oil with
glycerine and the hypophosphites
of lime and soda, a perfect remedy
for all children’s troubles, for colds
and coughs, rickets, skin troubles,
teething troubles, wasting, frac-
tiousness, whooping cough, meas-
les, croup. Read this letter which
came to us from Mrs. K. Clarke,
oi Perth, Western Australia, dated
January 13th, 1904: —
“ During the time we resided on the
goldfields, my little son Sydney suffered
greatly from prostration, accompanied
with vomiting and
loss of appetite, du-
ring the summer
months. By giving
him Scott's Emulsion
he was quite freed from
these attacks
during the
past two sum-
mers. I also
gave it to
him after a severe
attack of dysentery,
and was surprised at
t he rapidity with which
he regained his health
and strength. I recom-
mend Scott’s Emul-
sion especially to any
mother who has deli-
cate or ailingchildren.”
Scott’s Emulsion
will do in a w r eek
what common oil
and inferior emul- <
sions will not do in
a month. The rea-
s o n is simple.
Scott’s Emulsion is
perfectly pleasant to
take and perfectly
digestible, which no
other form of cod
liver oil is.
Every experienced mother knows
that such a remedy is most certain
to prove itself a TRUE REMEDY.
Write to-day for a free sample bottle
(enclosing 4d. for postage and mention-
ing this paper) to SCOTT & BOWNE, (
Ud„ 483, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W. j
4j
a. m f.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd.
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS'* SOAP, id take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels*
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
MODES OF THE MOMENT.
:
For the Autumn tad Winter Seasoti
Black Feathers will be very fashionable.
Millinery experts forecast a great de*
mand for feathers. Vide Fashion Journals.
MILLER’S FEATHERS
THE BEST THAT MONEY CAN BUY
Direct From the Farm to You.
The Ostrich Plume really “makes” the
Picture Hat, and is one of the principal
chaims which enhances the appear-
ance of all well-dressed women.
BLACK, WHITE or CREAM. PLUMES (as illustrated) 2 for 10/- Post Free,
Also in NATURAL GREY, o?*'*3LACK Tipped with White. Length, 12 inches.
BLACK TIPS, 9 inches long, 2/ each. STEEL ARROW ORNAMENTS, 1/.
CHOICE BOAS, 21/, SO/, 42/, (13/, 84/. WORTH TWICE TIIE MONEY
NOTE THIS.—By purchasing from us you not only save all the Middlemen’s
profits, but you have the finest assortment of Ostrich Feathers in Australia to
choose from. Send Postal Notes. Illustrated Price List Post Free.
FEATHERS
SUPERIOR
OR BOAS CLEANED AND CURLED.
WORK AT MODERATE PRICES.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP.
Dept. P., Cor. Strand Arcade, PITT ST., SYDNE
Also at Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. Mention Tun Bulletin.
JUST WHAT HAS BEEN WANTED.
A Good Practical TYPEWRITER
at a
Low Cost.
We have it I!
gds
The “Postal
Price £6 15s. / with Oak Case, £7 Ws.
No business man, no matter in hov small a way, should be without a Typewriter. Type-
Post free ’ S lo ° k "’ el ’ ai ’ e m ° re impic3SlVe ’ and lead to busin ess. Send for full particulars-
OSBORN & JERDAN,
“MY OPTICIANS,”
393 George St., Sydney.
Most Ot the nVetfibers of Bro/rih’s previous staff the
ttrisheh hinds who were respons.fi e for the smooth work-
[ho of the scenic effects—have been re-engaged for the
Brofigh-Fltemining tour.
The Lawyer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OT counting those of the fraternity in
the “Beautiful Harbor,” N.S.W. has 165
barristers in practice (exclusive of Judges)
and 875 solicitors. Of the latter, 475 hunt the
mullet in Sydney ; the charge of the other 400-
alas, a full 400—is in the back-block towns;
Mlillet are growing rapidly tndre and more eiusivb
too, Yet seldtihi pdssbs tbriid iri which the
d'eVii's huihbet |i.3) ot bhmd -hew attorneys swim
t)ot into the profession', barristers increase more
slowly ; the average increment being from 6 to 10
a-vear.
» * « •
Ten years ago there was scarcely an attorney in
the State who was not making a comfortable
living. To-day not more than a third earn above
£2OO per annum, This is partly because of the
rapid increase of solicitors, and the. Consequent
diminution of charged dub tt) Cqhipfetitibh; arid tfs
splitting-up tif business; ahq also jn, q, .large
ifleasu.rb t'o 4 developed public tendency to confide
important affairs only into the hands of big and
reputedly vvealthy firms. An unfortunate fact
that, for which the legal profession has to thank
its defaulters, and its own stupidly short-sighted
policy in over-protecting itself. For the Courts
sel.lom punish a rascally and insolvent “gent one M
who has played up his client’s little fortune, more
severely than by striking hint 6ff the rolls. Arid
naturally the jlriDlib; atvare that it takes a rf.sk ir,
trusting a Solicitor at all, prefers to run as small,
fisk.ris possible, and to spread the same risk over
ris great an area of corporate legal avoirdupois as
is available.
» * * *
But even the largest and oldest-established
firms no longer make their ancient incomes. It
is stated, upon the authority of a solicitor of 30
years’ standing in Sydney, that £lOOO per annum
is a rarely justifiable quotation of the individual
profits of any member of the profession. As for
the smaller fry, the great majority live from fin
to mouth. Many of them will now defend an
accused ill the police-bourts for half-a-gUihba, ahd
at the Quarter Sessions for a pound. The Set fees
half-a-dozen yeats agb for Such WOrlc Werb £3 3S;
and £7 7s, respectively; Of a lower grade arb a
number of Solicitors, who, haunt tile lbssbf Courts,
With ah air Of defiant diSrepUlability, and Will
thankfully iiddlbJsiS thfe„ Beak for half-a-brbwri. A
Woirtari Wno fell out Of a tra,ni-car the other day
rind was taken to a hospital, discovered; wheri sli'e
Subsequently tecov'er'ed from tier in§ensibiljty arid
leached home, that thb Business cards of three
different sdlicitols (one of a man in supposedly
bulge practice) had reached her.
• * * *
Barristers, as a class, are better off; chiefly
for the reason that very few are fools enough
to get themselves “called” unless they
possess sufficient money to tide over a briefless
wait of from five to ten years. Of the 166
now practising in N.S.W., 100 earn less than
£5O a year at the Bar. Of the remaitidbrj 30 feafii
about £2OO, 20 from £2OJ to £5OO, id from £5OO to
£1000; find five from. £lOOO to £5OOO.
* * • •
Forbidden by a cast-iron custom of the trade
from seeking the layman client in his lair, the
young barrister’s only means of getting-on is to
Cultivate assiduously the friendship of every
solicitor he knows. This he contrives to do, as a
rule, by hinting a readiness to advise —gratis—on
knotty legal points. Such constantly arise in the
practice of the lower branch, and young solicitors
especially are glad enough to have a cheap
“ pocket counsel ” to assist them in building-up
their own reputations. The solicitor’s gratitude
is expressed in the next speculative action he
brings before the Court. If his client were a rich
one, he would brief a big-gUn, But in speculative
Work the client often is a man of straw, and the
big-gun always Wants eash-dowrt. The young
barrister, however, is glad enough to get a chance
to wag his jaw, With or without pay; and he
thankfully accepts the speculative brief, upon
which he marks proudly a fee he may get if he
wins the case and the other side chances to be
“ good for costs,”
* * * •
The speculative action is, in sober truth, the
only certain ladder by which barristers can climb
to fame and fortune. There are instances, of
course, to the contrary, as, for example, the
man whose father or brother is a Judge or a
leading solicitor; and a few others. But those
are few and far between ; and so, also—unhappily
—are speculative actions, for the majority. And
very lucky is a junior at the bar, however studied
an advocate or however deep his learning, who
can afford to demand his fee on hearing, before he
has been 12, or even 15 years, in practice.
* * w *
Naturally, the junior barrister has much time
on his hands. Dozens idle for years in their
chambers before they get a brief. The frugal or
necessitous bombard the press with MS. The
studious become bright lexicons of precedents.
The better-off collect together and yarn and
smoke, or hold mock trials. All, to a regretable
extent, spoil their tempers and the best years of
their lives in the vain and hideous inaction of
waiting—waiting they come at last to hardly know
for what. A barrister at 35, who is not a philoso-
pher, is a bitter-tongued cynic. The poor among
them, curiously, are the most patient, and the
most self-confident. Writer knows one man—called
about 15 years—who during the first six made but
two guineas at law, by putting through a probate
application. He had not a farthing in the world
when he started, but he just managed to live and
pay his office rent by coaching an occasional
articled clerk through his final exam. Yet,
throughout, his belief in his ultimate success never
wavered. He was twice offered by a commercial
friend a fairly well-paid clerkship, bat he pre-
ferred to live on two meals a day, the more sub-
stantial of which usually consisted of a bloater, an
apple, and a bun. Proud as Lucifer, he was never
known to accept an invitation to a meal, but, ia
spite of his carefully-patched clothes, he was uni-
versally popular by reason of his genial humor and
unfailing cheerfulness. He is now making me. e
than £7OO a year.
A SOLICITOR.
The Australian boy—that curious mixture
of Red Indian stoicism, chivalry, cruelty ai d
moral cowardice —in one of his best aspects. L o
was aged 12 and was the son of a Glennie’s Cre( 1:
(N.S.W.) settler. His horse fell with him through
putting its foot in a hole (mark that the boy was
not thrown, the Australian boy seldom is thrown)
and his thigh was broken and the injured horse
left on top of him. The boy got to his whip and
flogged the horse until it struggled up and set his
maimed body free. Then (with a broken thigh)
he got into the saddle and rode home two miles.
Reaching there safely (he read an illustrated paper
until the arrival of the doctor I
r -the late discovery at Main waring Inlet,
Tas. W. coast, of the remains of the long overdue
barque Acacia, which left Port Esperance in June
last, emphasises once more the incapacity of the
present Tasmanian Government. A half-hearted
expedition was sent up the coast, in the July
following her departure, as far as Elliott Cove,
a few miles south of where the wreckage is scattered
along for miles, and then returned to Hobart.
The burning of a few more cwt. of coal would
have decided the fate of the barque. The Govern-
ment has been, lauded for its strenuous exertions
towards entertaining Lord Northcote on his
recent official landing ; but when the question is
the life or death of a barque’s crew, it sits down
and weeps miserably over the cost of a cockle*
shell’s coal for half a week.


g
(I
■
11
MftNTIE
v
An
JXcroRy:
“ [jy——.|OTT all do know this mantle,” the
jTKJS Welsbach. Its brilliant incan-
Eft V,® descence now gleams in every
S®, country and clime, establishing
IsrA®, ibs reputation as the brightest
BsSEtSI and most softly illuminating
medium that human ingenuity
has yet devised. It’s not a very far cry back
to the time when electricity as an illuminant
threatened to completely supplant gas, and
relegate it from the drawing-room to the
kitchen, there to perform the menial work of
grilling the succulent chop and boiling the
water for washing-up. But the “ Welsbach
mantle saved the situation for gas. Now gas
not only can challenge the most powerful arc
and incandescent electric lamp for power and
softness of illumination, but the mantle has
also reduced its cost to such an extent as to
gladden the heart of the thrifty householder.
Statistics
In order to obtain 60 Candle
Power with an Ordinary Gas
Burner consuming 5 cubic feet
of gas per hour, giving a light
of 16 Candle Power, or say
7500 cubic feet per annum, of
1530 burning hours, with gas
at 4s. per 1000 feet, your gas
bill would amount to ...
Whilst in order to obtain
60 Candle Power with Wels-
bach Burners, the cost would
be... ...
Thus effecting a saving of
£6 0 0
£lB 0
£4 12 0
per annum.
which means that gas burned
without the Welsbach Mant e
and Wells bach Burner would
t cost JE6 per annum to secure
the light which for .£1 Bs.
per annum is obtained with a
Welsbach Burner; i.e., that
by using the latter the con-
sumer would save
Allow 2s. 4d. per annum for
cost of renewals of Mantles
and 6d. per annum as sinking
fund for outlay on the burner,
it would show a net saving of
per burner per annum.
£4 12 0
£4 9 2
HE adoption of the Incandescent Gas
Light, the outlay being about 35.,
would thus effect a return of over
2500 per cent, per annum on the
outlay.
The WELSBACH Light is one-
fourth the price of Electric-Light.
A WELSBACH BURNER, “ 0 ” pattern,
with chimney, consuming cubic feet of gas
per hour, gives a light of 00 candles, and, taking
the year at 1500 burning hours, the cost would
be, with gas at 4s. per 1000 c.f ... .£1 Is.
60 units of ELECTRICITY gives a light of
16 candles for 1000 hours. Therefore, to get a
light of 50 candles for 1500 hours, would
necessitate 282 units, which would cost
approximately, at an average of 3od. per
unit ... £4 2s. 3 cl.
So that the price at which Electricity
must be supplied to compete with the
WELSBACH Burner is fd. per unit.
History.
The history of incandescent gas lighting
is the history of the success of Dr. Carl Auer
Ritter Yon Welsbach’s splendid chemical dis-
coveries in the application of the rare earths
thorium and cerium in the preparation of the
Ssrfect incandescent mantle —the Welsbach.
ut it is not only a story of glowing success of
science successfully solving great problems
and bringing new light to the world. There
is a more sordid side—the record of the many
fights against imitations which, if the public
will but understand, cannot hut be inferior.
Success has crowned the Welsbach Company’s
campaign throughout the world. But it has
only been secured by persistent effort.
But what, perhaps, will most interest the
reader is why he must get a Welsbach
mantle and how he is to tell it. When
Dr. Welsbach invented his mantle the
patent specifications read that his mantle was
immersed and treated with a solution of
thorum and cerium, the resultants being a 00 to
70 candle-power illuminant. That stands good
to-day, and no imitation can infringe this
formula. Imitations must utilise ir greater
percentage of cerium, and the public thereby
loses and only get 32 candle-power instead of 70.
■■ u
-
;as
m *
■-is
m,
OU
mm
a aar?
Gvers/Zfime
the lightest*
Iftinoon
r
. • a
f .
is a.
OTSGi
.♦«V*Vv%ovV/.;l
rJß’.'ißfc >1
1 i ; -V ../
aclv
r>Vv//i
St3i
>*4 *>
WM:.
■
/
- -
*1
I:.-h
• ' ;
You Ait Do Know This Mantle
ft uj Chrrar


"LET YOUR IIGHT SO SHINE"
But it must be the
WELSBAVH
«sssialF you buy an incandescent
ifjjij mantle which isn’t a Welsbach
Kg £ you can’t get the same light.
ms | Messrs. A. Hordern and Sons
m js realised this the other day
Pafowi when they ordered the Wels-
bach Company of Australia
to supply them with a quarter of a
million candle power for the new build-
ings of their firm—probably the biggest
lighting power under one roof of any
business premises in the world.
An Australian Industry.
It is particularly interesting to note that tha
Welsbach Company’s spirited action in de-
ciding to make Welsbacli mantles for Aus-
tralians by Australians in Australia is receiving
a just reward. Owing, probably, to climatic
influences- —such as the glorious Australian
sunshine —but, perhaps, also to the brightness
of Australian intelligence, the experts of the
English-company find that the mantles made
in Australia are better than those made any-
where abroad This is of great importance.
The Australian Welsbacli Mantle is found
to have an average life of Over 1000 hours as
against less than half that of mantles made in
other countries.
In ’93 the Welsbacli Co. started operations
in a street off Wynyard Square. So recently
as December, 1904, Mr. W. T. Stutchbury
arrived from England to take up the
general managership of the Company in
Australasia. Mr. Stutcnbury was originally
the managing director of the Sunlight
Incandescent Gas Co. in England, which was
bought up by the Welsbacli Co. Within a
week of Mr, Stutchbury's direction of opera-
tions, he determined on the abolition of sole
agencies, and started six branches. The result
has been striking—an increase of 300 per cent,
in the output, and the employment of
double the number of hands, although this
period has been summer-time, and, of course,
under ordinary circumstances, the quietest
for all lighting concerns. Mr. Stutchbury has
introduced special machinery and other im-
portant innovations in the works, increasing
their capacity tenfold, with the result that
they stand now as a most interesting example
of a modern model factory employing girl labor.
The conditions under which work is carried
on are excellent—-a special dining-room is pro-
vided for the girls, w 7 ho participate in a bonus
above their salaries.
* * * *
Mantle Manufacture.
Many use the Welsbach Mantle without
knowing the delicacy of manipulation neces-
sary in the various processes of its manufac-
ture, which are generally illustrated on this
page. Here in Australia the girls employed
by the company are going daily through the
same delicate operations as at the works at
Wandsworth, in England, where they turn
out about thirty million mantles per
annum. In the first instance, one enters
a spacious compartment, where interest is
immediately aroused by a half-dozen girls
diligently mangling babies’ hose without feet
with miniature mangles. Of course it is not
quite this, but something much more impor-
tant—the immersion in a solution of rare
earths, and their subsequent wringing of
innumerable short lengths of strips of tubular
cotton hose that are mantles in embryo
destined to light the homes of a Federalised
Australia. To give some idea of the magni-
tude of operations, these girls can treat some-
thing like 12,000 mantles a da,y. From
wads of figures like this the visitor flees
to another floor where more girls are
fitting the impregnated bases on to moulds,
which are put into drying cupboards.
After the drying process come more
girls who take and pass the myriads of
mantles on to folders, whose duty it is to
straighten out and fold flat in readiness for
fixing in another department. The fixing
operation refers to the top of the mantle. If
you take up a Welsbach mantle you will
notice a pink ring round it—that is the fixing
—to which this part of the mantle is subjected
before the top is gathered, and the asbestos
string, by which it is suspended is passed
through it. One by one the flat, limp fabrics
are picked up, and the tops are just passed
between two little rollers —the operative part
of the machine—and ouc they come with about
three-quarters of an inch of their length im-
pregnated by the pink fluid, and the fixing
process is completed. Then there come more
girls, and the toughening and other bewilder-
ing processes, such as burning off in a fiery
furnace, until each mantle lias gone through
the hands of a dozen girls and singly placed in
cotton wool in bones to go to the consumer.
Burners and Fittings.
One of the greatest triumphs of the Welsbaah
system is the manner in which it has been
made possible to practically adopt all the
advantages claimed for electric _ lighting.
Until the Welsbach system came into force,
electric-light was preferred by many for the
ease in which it could be turned on or off
with innumerable switches, and the decorative
effect that could be obtained through the
manner in which the incandescent lamps
could be suspended. But the Welsbach
sdg
ds
71QUGHEMING
Burning w Shaping
R\gkino
fittings and their “Pilot” lights enable
the light to be turned on 'instan-
taneously any time of the day of night,
and can be arranged quite as con
veniently as any electric-light switches.
As far as suspended, or inverted lights,
are concerned, which for so long were
the feature of electric lighting and the
great want in aligns fittings, thtfsehave
been cmi pit toLy eclipsed by tjie new
fitting!* <>f toe \\olshiioli €oimi>uiyj' It
must not bo forgotten, too, that wi the of
electric-light switches and fittings,. these were,
and indeu I are, always of an expyiisi vitlidane.
To put on a switch to turn out ah ele. t|fiq sight
will cist any whei o from 20s. to 3; Sq; and
the drop fittings run into any amount. '1 he
Welsbach lights with pilot light or’:; bye-
pass attachment practically cost nothing; and
the Welsbach (Jo. have the most complete and
delightful assortment of art decorative’sus-
pended fittings from 2s. Gd. upwards. The
“Standard” Welsbach Patent In verted
Burner is artistic, shadowless, economical, of
G 5 candle-power. It has a maintenance cost
ot gth that of the electric-light equivalent,
with an initial cost, complete with mantle and
plain globe, of only 7s. Gd. This lamp is a
beautiful pear shape, with bronze,or polished
brass crown. It is impossible to distinguish
this lamp from electric-light of similar size,
except for its extreme brilliancy* This lamp
has been specially designed to compete with
the much talked of Nernst’s type of blectric-
lamp, and it easily succeeds in its’ object.
The “Venus,” a GO-candle power Burner
with Bye Pass “C” Welsbach Mantle, Rod
and Bull', and colored glass Ornamental
shade, costs only Gs Bd, is very decorative,} and
gives four times the light of the:average in-
candescent electric light. Jr
TV * * *
For some time past MunicipalitTesTiave been
much concerned with the question of gas
versus electric light, but the battle fought
recently at the Glebe Municipal Council has
practically settled the question, as the
maintenance cost of incandescent gas lighting
was completely and satisfactorily demon-
strated to be considerably less than could be
obtained by a much less efficient system of
electric lighting. The Welsbach Co. of
Australasia, Ltd., have a most complete
arrangement for municipal street and out-
door lighting of every description. To com-
pete with the electric Arc light system,''they
have the “ Million,” 1000-c.p.; the “ Hamah,”
700-c.p.; “ Padova,” 700-c.p. ; the “ Hansi,”
400-c.p. ; the “ Tiber,” 700-c.p.; and the
“Hallwyl,” 210-c.p.—from £3 ss. upwards.
In electric lighting, one of the most recent
and beautiful features has been the adop-
tion of flame-colored arc lamps, and for
some time it was thought that the advance
in incandescent gas lighting had been abso-
lutely checkmated. This, evidently, is not
the case. The Welsbach Co. have, after
the most careful experimenting on the
part of their experts, produced a light—
“ The Oceana ” (the light of the South) —which
is eloquently described by the co. as “ moon-
light made manifest.” It certainly looks a
very much improved arc electric-lamp, with
none of the hard glare, which ruins com-
plexions, and spoils all shades of color, while
the eyesight is greatly preserved by this light.
Types op Mantles. .
The Welsbach Company hav.e adopted in
Australia three types of mantles for general
domestic purposes. The first of ’lthese is
known as the Welsbach, on every one of
which they place their trade mark, the “ W”
in the steering wheel. The special feature of
the mantle is the texture of the fabric, and the
length of time of treatment. The fabric is es-
pecially woven with a cantilever stitch, which
makes it the strongest mantle made. The
price is 7d. per mantle throughout Australasia.
It is of interest to note this, as the company
have adopted two cheaper mantles, the “ Sun-
light” and the “Gladiator,” price Gd. and sd.
each, to fight fraudulent and spurious imita-
tions. These mantles are treated with the
same preparation as their 'standard “ Wels-
bach, ” but in order to cheapen cost of produc-
tion a lesser cost hose has been
which does not absorb so much of the rare
earth preparation in its manufacture.
* * « *
Heating. .
lt might be thought that the utility of the
“Welsbach” incandescent system would have
ended with lighting, but the principle was
too simple not to extend to cooking and
heatin'? purposes. In the splendid show-
rooms of the Company throughout the States
and New Zealand, amongst the latest lighting
fittings, can be seen the most artistic and
convenient heating radiators and cooking
apparatus. The Welsbach-Kern patents are
employed in gas raditors of the most beautiful
description in pottery, copper, and hammered
iron from 32s Gd upwards—a combination which
completely does away with all the objection-
able features of gas stoves. In gas cookers
every size of family is studied, with the result
that the baby’s food can be heated as easily as
a theatre supper provided for the most
bohemian-inclined epicurean.
F.W.


(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
SYDNEY CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 24
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 10
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 5
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tas., June 5
• ••
•••
50,000 at 51 2 each.
100,000 at 5 2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTA-INTT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4c/. on each 10s . Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of„ the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Bee, 3d. per Parcel.
gds
f
h.
m
mum
g
B
THE WAY 1
When the days' work Tv*
time to remember that the boys of
myself want some New Clothing 1)
just sit down comfortably and write to
LINCOLN,
STUART a Co
FUNDERS STREET. MELBOURNE
for their book “The Philosophy of Dress” an<Tj
some patterns of cloths, of which they send-
me a great variety by return of post, I then'
read the book and see what will suit me.
Haying made my selection, and come to a
decision, I send them the order on their
special Measure Form, when finished, the goods
are sent to me and the Carriage is prepaid.
I find by this plan that f buy just as well aa
if I was in town, and am splendidly fitted
and suited in every way.
To oblige the Firm 1 always leU them
which paper I saw their advertisement in.
Write to-day
for
Patterns
and the Book*
201.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to .become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be Without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
OF 1 COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
Terrible cough caused by measles.
Improved immediately and quickly cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send me by return post
One large bottle of vour Bronchitis Cure, for which please
find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough, caused by
measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced to have
a small quantity of your Bronchitis Cure, took one dose,
and improved immediately. I like to always have some
on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of
what it has done for me, and you are at liberty to make
use of what I have written. This is not the first time it
has done me good.—Yours truly,
a. R. HOOK,
“ Hilslea,” Clyde, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
Two children in one family cured two years
ago by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
In the best of health now.
Have never had a sign of the Asthma since.
Mr. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —It is with pleasure I can say that my two
children, whom you treated two years ago with your
medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best «t health.
They have never had a sign of the asthma since. I always
keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure in the
house now.
(Mrs.) L. EDGELL,
Smeaton, Victorifc
BRONCHITIS.
A sufferer 73 years of ago.
Thoroughly cured by two bottles of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Immediate Relief —Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—l have been very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate
Srelief, and after taking the second bottle I am thoroughly
cured. Its effect, on me has been most wonderful. I am
73 years of age. I trust you will make use of this state-
ment by publishing it for the benefit of humanity
generally.—Yours most respectfully,
“ THOMAS R. TREZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
Dry hacking cough for twelve months.
Believed at once and completely cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Other treatment took no effect.
Mr. W. G. HEARNE.
Dear Sir, —For twelve months or more I had a dry,
hacking' cough on my chest, that used to trouble me
terribly at night time. I was told it was a touch of Bron-
chitis. I tried different sorts of medicine, which took no
effect, so I tried your Bronchitis Cure, which I have much
pleasure in informing you relieved me at once. It has
completely cured my cough. I am sure anyone can
depend on your medicine for a thorough and immediate
cure.—l remain, yours truly,
DAVID MATTHEWS,
Modewarre, Victoria.
INFLUENZA and BRONCHITIS.
Ten years suffering with a terrible cough,
and wasting away.
Completely cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of
Influenza and Bronchitis, and for ten years was suffering
with a terrible cough, and was wasting away. I had
medical attendance, and tried various medicines recom-
mended, but without success until, on my daughter’s
recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, with
the result that it completely cured me, and I am per-
fectly free from any cough now.
E. ASTALL,
116 Shields-street, Flemington, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
A sufferer for years cured by one bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
No other treatment did any good.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —My daughter, 12 years of age, had
a very bad cough that had been a great trouble to her for
years. 1 tried every cough remedy I could get, but not
one of them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried
one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never
coughed since she finished it. lam glad to say the effect
has been wonderful. Yours etc.,
3. BATSEN,
Homebush, Sydney, N.S.W.
BRONCHIAL CATARRH.
An obstinate case cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
After other treatment had failed.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l have a son, 9 years of age,
who for two years suffered from Chronic Bronchial
Catarrh. I could never leave him away from me a night
on any consideration. Everybody just dreaded his being-
left to their care. The least dampness of foot, cool sea
breeze after a hot day, or cold blowing wind, would con-
fine hjm to the house for days. I had medical advice,
and used different patent medicines, but without success,
until I got one small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure,
which has freed him completely from the Catarrh. Since
then he has been out in damp weather to school, and goes'
about like any other child ; in fact, he seems to have lost,
a big burden, and is quite well. Will you please accept
my gratitude.—Believe me, vours gratefully,
AMY H. PARTRIDGE,
Kelso Heights, Singleton, N.S.W.
BRONCHITIS. I
A South Australian storekeeper testifies
to the Efficacy of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure. * j j
A sufferer 70 years old cured by it. g
Well and hearty now.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am. a storekeeper,
living in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to; Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing of your valuable medicine, he-
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman
is over 70 years of age, an old bushman who has been in
these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the medi-
cine from me. He is at my place now, and he says that
this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis for a
number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks for
your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part
of it you like, as it may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly,
M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia.
CONSUMPTION-
Too ill to leave his bed*
A complete cure.
Mr. W. G. fleame.
Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you about the wonderful
cure your medicine ha j effected in my case. About three
years ago I began to cough. At first the cough was not
severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became very
weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my chest,
and great quantities of phlegm. On several occasion*
there was blood in the expectorated matter. I had been
treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to be con-
sumption, and various other treatments had been tried,
but without benefit. It was at this stage that I heard of
your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a course of the
medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill to leave my bed,
but I commenced taking it at once, and gradually im-
proved. I am glad to say that the two lots of medicine
you sent have effected a complete cure, for which accept
my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR,
Westminster-bridge Road, S.E., London.
Distressing, suffocating, dry cough for twelve
years.
Entirely removed by five doses of Heame’s
Bronchitis Cure.
No other treatment could even ease it.
Sir, —My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from mos{
distressing, suffocating, dry cough, that could not be re-
moved or even eased by any remedy, doctors’ prescript
tions and patent medicines having been tried ; but I ani
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and dif-
ficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by tha
fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, sir, youra
most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT,
Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W»
A five years’ case cured by one small bottle
of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as 4
small bottle cured my little girl, who' had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without if,
—I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s 6d,; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PEOPEIETOE,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
PRANOH DEPOT—
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.


Always the same!
SUNLIGHT SOAP
for the laundry.
EYB
FOR MAKING BRASS LIKE MIRRORS.
THE, best natural aperient water.
r
For SOOT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
Ilunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— A wincglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.-
Fote the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
* ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Labels
Letters Reporting Cures of Cases of
Bladder Disease.
From Mr. Alex. Dickson, 90 East Belt, Christchurch, N.Z., 21st February, 1904.
“ During recent years I have been troubled with urinary difficulties. My bladder seemed sore and
irritated, and my'physician said I had catarrh of the bladder, which was difficult to overcome on
account of my advanced years. Warner’s Safe Cure was recommended to me, and 1 took frequent
doses, hardly daring to believe that I should be helped, but, to my relief, I found that the irritation
gradually subsided, the urinary difficulty passed away, and my general condition improved. I have
enjoyed splendid health for the past six months, and really feel younger than I did some years ago.
thanks to Warner’s Safe Cure. ,
From Capt. W. J. Stuart, Master Mariner, Station Avenue, Coburg, Vic., 6th April 1903.
“It is with much pleasure that I beg to inform you of the great benefit I have derived from taking
Warner’s Safe Cure. In the early part of last January I had a chill, which turned to a very severe
attack of Inflammation of the Bladder. I consulted two doctors, and after examining me, each said
it wa3 a disease common to men of my age (I am over 60), and that I could only get relief by using an.
instrument, as medicine would do me no good. I positively refused to let either of them use an
instrument on me, but at once procured a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure. I conscientiously and
truthfully declare that before finishing the first bottle I got absolute relief and began to feel better
in every respect. I have continued to take the medicine, and my health has wonderfully improved.
I am in as good health now as I can ever expect to be, and my recovery is entirely due to Warner’s
Safe Cure. I carefully observed the diet directions given in your book. I most strongly recom-
mend Warner’s Safe Cure to anyone who suffers as I did, and can only add that to me it has proved
invaluable.”
Writing on the 7th March, 1904, Capt. Stuart says—“l have received your letter of sth inst.»
making inquiry as to whether I can now confirm the statements made in my letter to you of 6th
April last year, and am very pleased indeed to be able to advise you that I have had no symptom of
any return of bladder trouble, and my general health is so satisfactory that I am constantly being eon-
fratulated on my renewed vigor by all my friends. I can only add that I cannot be too grateful, as
am sure that I owe my health to Warner’s Safe Cure. The effect of the medicine in my case has.
been most remarkable.”
From Mrs. Elizabeth Roben, “Brighton,” French Street, Kogarah, Sydney, N.5.W...
25th September, 1903.
“ About eight years ago I was attacked by great pain at the stomach and severe vomiting. I took:
a bottle of Warner's Safe Cure, but it did me no good. I then went to the hospital and underwent am
operation, but was not cured. The pain I suffered was terrible. The medicine the doctors pre-
scribed gave me no relief. I was brought home and treated by another medical man, but still obtained l ,
no relief. He at last said he could do no more for me, and my friends were sent for. My sister,,
having great faith in Warner’s Safe Cure, brought a bottle with her, and gave me a tablespoonful
every quarter of an hour from eleven o’clock till one, and the relief from pain was wonderful. I con-
tinued to take Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills until I was restored to Health.”
From Mr. Joel Weatherby Bolton, King Ed ward-street, North East Valley, Dunedin, N Z 10th
February, 1904.
“ I was in good health until about four years ago, when I noticed that my back became lame and
sore. The pains kept increasing with severe twitches and slow exhaustive aches, and I found that
Ih id inflammation of the bladder. I tried many remedies without getting better, but finally
decided to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and, within a few days, to my great joy, found relief. I con-
tinued to take the medicine, and at the end of three months was restored to perfect health. lam only
too pleased to endorse the value of Warner's Safe Cure.”
From Mr. Joseph Agnew, Fairfield, N.S.W., lStli September, 1903.
“ Some five years ago I was attacked by great pains in the groin, which at times were so bad that
I almost cried with agony. I was treated by doctors, but found no relief. A friend advised me to
take Warner’s Safe Cure, which I did, and after taking two bottles I was quite cured.”
From Mr. Christian Lawson, Cook-street, Auckland, N.Z., 17th March, 1904. *
“ I suffered from inflammation of the bladder for thirteen months, and only those who similarly
suffer know anything about the agony I endured. It is one of the most painful diseases a person can
suffer from, and one of the hardest to get rid of. Had it not been for Warner’s Safe Cure I feel that
I should be in my grave to-day, but, thanks to its wonderful efficacy, I am in the best of health
instead. I took fourteen bottles, and felt my health and strength gradually return. I believe my
restoration is permanent, as I l»>ve not had the slightest pain for over three months.” J
Uric Acid.—The presence of this acid in the blood is the cause of people suffering from Rheu-
matism, Gout, Neuralgia, Bachache, Lumbago, Sciatica, Gravel, and Bladder Troubles The accumu-
lation- of uric acid in the blood is a certain indication that the kidneys are acting inefficiently
Warners Safe Cure acts specifically upon the kidneys, and invariably restores those vital organs to
health and activity, when all suffering due to uric poisoning ceases. So potent is Warner’s Safe Cure
that it will even cure Bright s Disease of the kidneys.
- .., . , , , >— - particles float about in it, or it is of an
Warner’ssScure 6 UdneyS are not health y> and 110 time should be lost in commencing to take
In Arcady.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HE brown hills brood around me, crowned
I with gums of sombre sheen ;
* - They look like drowsy giants all in smolung-
caps of green. ;
There’s not a voice familiar, or a fare that s
known to me : .
The Lord He knows, but I suppose, that this is
Arcady.
I sit on the verandah at the closing of the day
And compare myself to Ovid in my modest little
way—
To Ovid in his exile, dreaming evermore of Rome,
And in vain beseeching Caesar to forgive and take
him home.
He dwelt amongst barbarians, and sang his
mournful song
Beside the frozen Ister and the Euxine shore
along ;
But T, ’midst kindly Irish, dwell upon an upland
plain—
And still I long for Sydney and its narrow streets
again.
The wheat is cut and garnered, and the ploughing
has begun ;
The ruddy soil lies naked to the kisses of the sun ;
There’s harrowing, and burning-off, and other
sights to see,
And great potato-digging in the fields of Arcady.
The farmers use, to break the ground, a fine four-
furrow plough.
Their ancestors would smile if they could see the
Irish now—
For they wrought hard with wooden shares their
frugal crops to raise.
When Ceclit, the Plough, they worshipped in the
old Dedauaan days.
In spite of new machines the Earth is full of won-
der sweet;
There’s still as much of magic in the springing of
the wheat
As when around the fields at night, the ancient
legends tell,
The Naked Maid in darkness walked and wove a
magic spell.
A liomely-looking folk they are, these people of
my kin ;
Their hands are hard as horse-shoes, but their
hearts come through the skin ;
They are all right well-connected in this land of
Arcady;
And if your name’s not Hogan here it must be
Hegarty.
And Nature, God preserve her well, is kindly
Irish too ;
The winds croon Irish melodies the swaying gum-
trees through ;
And ev’ry little hill about, with green cap cocked
and curled,
Says “ Come upon the top of me and look around
the world ! ”
The stream goes singing on its way, and well I
know the tune—
’Tis “Slantha” in the morning, and at night
“ Eileen Aroon ” ;
The magpie warbling in the woods with rich, clear
purple note,
Pretends that he’s a blackbird with a Cork brogue
in his throat.
They love the land they live in, all these folk that
I esteem—
But the land they left behind them is an everlast-
ing dream.
Old Michael Cleary said to me—his age is seventy
seven—
“ There’s no place like Australia, barrin’ Ireland
and Heaven.”
There’s rest and peace in plenty here, and eggs
and milk to spare ;
The scenery is calm and sane, and wholesome is
the air;
The folk are kind, the cows behave like cousins
unto me . . .
But, please the Lord, on Monday morn, I’m
leaving Arcady.
N.s.w.
VICTOR J. DALKY.
Not Much of a Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE were very few in the shop, as it
was not yet mid-day. And the big,
flapping blinds of white canvas softened
the light on the pyramids of fruit.
Maggie was waiting for her brother. She had
her veil pushed up to her forehead, and her red
face was trickling all over with perspiration. Her
purse, with its brass clasp and elastic band, lay on
the table beside her.' and was crossed protectively
by her umbrella. She held a check-ticket in one
.hand and a glass full of “ squash ” in the other.
A brooch, with her name, gripped the two ends
of her collar together so tightly that her throat
creased into a little pink fold.
Presently her brother came in, rolling his eyes
at the waitress and chewing his moustache.
He carried a very thin little stick, and wore a
rabbit’s ear in his hat, which was tipped far back
on his head.
Maggie stared at him in admiration, and put her
squash on the table till he was seated.
He took the chair opposite to her, and rattled
the medals on his chain as he drew out his watch
and held it up to her.
“Ha’-past to the tick,” he said. “IleftEdie
outside because I knew you wouldn’t like to see
her.”
“ I’m glad you’ve got that much sense,” said the
■girl, smiling to soften the effect of her words.
“Well, you’ll have to get used to her,” he said.
“Dad’s in town, and he’s going to help us get fixed
up to-morrow.”
Maggie’s mouth quivered.
“You an’ Dad are a pair,” she said—“ the
maddest wretches on earth ! ”
The man twisted his moustache, and made a
great show with a silver buckle ring on his finger.
“If.you’re going to ‘perform,’ ” he said, “jest
say so, an’ I’ll clear out.” ' .
“Oh, Bill, don’t bo so nasty,” exclaimed the
girl. I only don’t like seeing you throw your-
self away. Edie isn’t straight. No! No ! !
Whatever you say—she isn’t straight”— —
“Damn it all ! be careful, now,” snapped the
mm, dropping his paw with a whack on to his
knee. But the girl looked into his eyes so that
he kept the lids lowered, and the lashes quivered
over bis hairy cheeks.
“Mind you,” she continued, “she’s as bad as a
woman can be. She lives in a bad house. She”—
“Well, I know all that. Hasn’t she told me
herself?”
“Yes—well, then?” and the girl stretched out
her hands in expostulation.
The man moved his head like some great beast
straining at a chain.
“Can’t I raise her?” he said. “Eh ? Can’t I
raise her ?_”
“ Yes—if anyone can.”
“ Weil, and so I shall.”
“0, Billy, you don’t know what you’re doing,”
entreated Maggie. “Just think—every one
knows about her. Tom Bourke an’ Arthur John-
son. And all that lot. You are too good ”
The man was bending his stick over his knee.
“Think of her awful nickname,” persisted tho
girl.
“ I —tell—you—what,” said the man, as he leant
right over the table, jerking out each word
separately ; “if —we —weren’t—here—l’d —break
—your —neck!”
Maggie shut her eyes, but didn’t give way an
inch.
“ You—you will marry her ? ” she said, her hands
stiff out in front of her.
“ I’ve told you so a billion times ! ”
“Then, if you do,” she said, “I will live the
way she has lived, and I will live in the house she
has lived in. And my nickname —my nickname will
be”
But she broke-down, her tears flooding in fire
over her cheeks.
The man tilted his hat further back. “ Bah ! ”
he said. “ You ain’t much of a woman.”
H. McC.
"Une Petite Affaire.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the betrothal of Jules
Legrand and Berthe Bossier was an-
nounced, not a soul in the sleepy little
French Alpine village but saw the hand of God
in aso happy contract. For would it not heal the
quarrel that had existed for the last 10 years be-
tween old Legrand and Bossier, whose properties
adjoined ? Then, as if that were not enough to
ensure the happiness of any marriage, did not
the young people love one another ?
When the day fixed for the wedding arrived,
with it, in all manner of ramshackle conveyances,
came the guests who had been invited to partake
of the bullock, the two sheep, the 10 turkeys, the
twenty ducks and fowls and the barrel of wine.
After four days of feasting, the last morsel of fleth
and last drop of wine had disappeared ; the guests
departed, and Jules led his young wife to the
farm he had rented high up on the bleak, pine-
clad mountain side ; for Pfere Legrand and Fere
Bossier were far too lively and active to think of
going out of business for some time to come.
That was in the late summer, and as the sum-
mer came round again the little one arrived.
It was the evening of the anniversary of their
wedding, arid they were sitting by the door of
their house, looking at the moon rising behind the
snow peaks, far away on the other side of the
valley. Berthe was singing the baby to sleep,
while Jules unconsciously puffed his cigarette in
time to the little nursery-rhyme, perhaps better
known to Frenchmen than the Marseillaise :
Au clair de la lune,
Mon ami Pierrot,
Prete toi ta plume
Pour 6crire un mot.
Ma chandelie est morte,
Je n’ai plus de feu ;
Ouvre-moi ta porte
Pour l’amour de Dieu.
The baby slept, and Berthe ceased.
Jules asked in a low tone, “Why art thou so
fond of that song, Berthe ? ”
“And why not?” she replies; “’tis a simple
song, and (shyly) it has the name of my baby.”
And then she added, with the suggestion of a
tremble in her young voice, “ Poor little Pierre !
he will be a great man some day.” And Jules
laughed deep down in his broad chest, and ran
his toil-hardened fingers over the baby’s head.
• * * *
A narrow lane a hundred yards long, joining
two streets in Noumea, canopied with overspread-
ing trees. In the middle a gas-lamp that casts a
glimmer in the blackness. Near this a small
crowd of seven or eight. A fat man in pyjamas
runs out and seizes a Kanaka, who has just arrived,
by the shoulder.
“Bun for the police ! ”
A crowd clusters in front of two men who stand
by a large iron gate. One is tall, black-bearded,
with a stern face. In his right hand he holds
a revolver whose nickel barrel glimmers in
the moonlight. With the other hand he holds
the right arm of the second, who, abject with fear
or weakness, clings to the gate to support himself.
It is easy to see that the latter is a relegue, a small
morsel of the flotsam scum of France flung out of
the way on to the waste-heap of New Caledonia,
liis hair is grey and tangled and clotted with
filth ; his eyes are shifty and blood-shot with alco-
hol; his face is pale, shrunken with hunger and
stained with dirt. He wears an undershirt almost
black with filth, tattered canvas trousers and rope
sandals that cling by a miracle to his bare feet.
Presently he begins to shake violently, and with-
out any warning drops in a heap on the ground.
'The man beside thrusts his revolver into his belt
and begins to roll a cigarette, while a girl among
the half-a-dozen sightseers giggles.
“ How did it happ n, friend?” a man asks.
“ Why, it is very simple,” the man with the re-
volver replies. “I hear a noise in the fowl-yard ;
I go down and find this man ; I seize him by the
arm ; he struggles; I point the revolver at him ;
he thinks to knock it from my hand, and hits it
clown with his fist, and— roild— I think the ball is
in his stomach.”
The man on the ground groans faintly and tries
to move. A gendarme arrives and sends for a
doctor and ambulance. He kneels by the stricken
man and lifts his head.
“ What are you ? Free man?”
There is a titter in the crowd What a devilish
droll dog this policeman is, to be sure ! No libere,
even though ex-forger or murderer, would think
of committing a petty theft such as this.
“ No—relegue.”
“Number?”
‘‘-Seven—Thousand—and fifty—six.
He speaks in gasps.
“ Name ? ”
“ Pierre Legrand.”
The policeman has finished, and lets the head fall
back on the ground. The relegue lies silent, and
a bystander, perhaps a little less heartless than
the rest, bends over him and tries to arrange him
more comfortably.
Presently the relegue begins to speak—huskily
and unintelligibly at first, and then clearly :
Ma chandelle est morte,
Je n’ai plus de feu ;
Ouvrc-moi ta porte
Pour l’amour de Dieu.
He relapses into silence.
The crovvd look at each other wonderingly, and
one taps his forehead with his finger. The man
who has mistaken the poor wretch for a human
being bends closer as the relegue again begins to
whisper, thinking that perhaps he may wish to
give one last message. The words come faint yet
clear—
“Ma chandelle est morte —tant pis—tant pis”
—and then he adds, so faintly that to the listening
man it seems almost a sigh—“ tant mieux.”
He says it with his last breath.
The bystander rises with a scared face, for there
is something terrible even in the death of an
animal.
“ Friends, he is dead ! ” .
“God have mercy on his soul,” says a devout
Catholic, crossing herself. “And to think of
going into the presence of his Maker with a
nursery-rhyme on his lips.”
Rut she is wrong. Pierre Legrand had offered
up the only prayer of his life.
NOUMEA.
MULWA.


STOP IT IN TIM 1
Do not disregard the warning message of the back that aches ; stop it in time—for the ache
comes from the kidneys (which lie just beneath the small of the back), and distinctly tells that
uric acid poisons, and waste matter, are accumulating in your body. These are the poisons that
cause dropsy, Bright’s disease, rheumatism, bladder troubles, urinary disorders, diabetes.
Only kidneys that are in health can keep the body free from fluid pois( ns. The genuine
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills bring the kidneys back to health, cleanse them, strengthen them,
give them new life. With the first dose of this kidney medicine, the great work of driving out the
fluid poisons will begin in real earnest, and within a week or so rich, sweet blood
will course through your veins, the color will begin to return to your cheeks,
heavy eyes, aching limbs, weak back, sick headaches, sleepless nights, dizzi-
ness, and nervousness will be but a memory.
Woman’s Lasting Cure.
Mrs. M. MULLINS, 49 Hunter-street, this city, says: “For about three
years I suffered with Kidney Derangement. The worst symptom was a constant
Backache, which became more painful whenever I stooped much. I tried many
remedies for this complaint, and the results were anything but beneficial, but
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills permanently cured me. When I say ‘cured,’ I
mean that it is over twelve months since I used these pills, and I’ve had no return
of the old pain. I have advised many people to use Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and all have obtained very good results from their use.”
Four years later, Mrs. Mullins informs us that she is still well. “ I have never
had a sign of thecomplaint since,’’shesays. “They are splendid pills, and have made
a great difference in my health. The permanent cure mmy case speaks for itself.”
DOAN’S
Backache Kidmy Pills.
Get what you ask for. Get DOAN’S. Don’t accept a sub-
stitute. All Chemists sell Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
will give you what you call for. Some may endeavor to sub-
stitute an article they make more profit on. Insist on having
the genuine, and save money and misery. Price 2s. 9d. a box
(six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
" Every Picture tells c Story.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
<5
J
V,
CC
<£s>
C-Q
Children of the Gulf.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT lay like a piece of charred driftwood
stranded at the inlet’s mouth. Mimosa
watched it, half ta.M, „ ,he tide
sucked into the narrow creek at the rear of the
hut. At high-water the black length would vanish
into the darkness of the mangroves. Mimosa had
learned to watch for its return, and there were
times when she thought that the long, square
ij . . . , , , 1
snout would push its way into her kitchen.
Whenever bustu Ma was angry he would run
out with a boat-hook and threaten it savagely.
Beyond the grey loneliness of the sand-hum-
mocks lay a township of tin hovels and shanties
Crowds of half-caste children scrambled about the
pier ; children with white bodies and Mongolian
eyes; children with brown eyes and the blue-black
hair of Malays. There were the podgy brats
belonging to Sam Foo and “ Chinese Kate ” ; the
i & r it t' it , ’
slim, dank offspring of Jim Maroola and
I nsco Sal ; and they sat between hills of
oyster-shell and paddled in the brown Gulf slime,
“Big Jack” was the king alligator of the Gulf
creeks; his hiding-places were innumerable, and
... . . ,
the township dogs knew him for a treacherous
scavenger that trapped their tribe in the dark
places and tide-flushed holes. Occasionally they
followed him up the inlet, barking furiously ; but
the bravest cur never disputed his right to be first
m Sam boo s blood-hole on slaughtering day. Foo
was head butcher in the township.
There was plenty of life in the little Gulf port.
Across the sand-hummocks was the opium-house,
kept by Wah Sang, the noseless Tonquinese,
whose verandah swarmed with Manila-men and
Cingalese, with here and there a myall from the
Jardine country. There were times when the
hasheesh-den was filled with white-faced French-
men, who came like starved wolves from
Noumea, by way of the Barrier and Cape York.
One day a big, red-cheeked Englishman strolled
along the beach and stopped before Mimosa’s
hammock. He raised his pith helmet slightly,
but Mimosa turned away her head and frowned,
E“f Englishman looked puzzled. _
“ Many pardons, madam, but I mistook your
residence for a tea-house. I have been in Kobe
and Tokio. My name is Bennet. You will not
refuse me a cup of tea.”
Mimosa, swinging in her hammock, kept her
head away. “Sustu Ma is my husband. I am
his wife a long time ago in Nagasaki.”
“Nagasaki is the front-window of the East,”
laughed Bennet. “It is the bed-chamber of the
moon Lady from the East, give me
so ?l® tea ! ”
Mimosa turned slightly in the hammock. “ My
husband has gone out in the lugger, for pearl; he
will be here to-morrow of the morning.”
“ Happy to meet him,” said Bennet, quietly,
“For sheer courtesy and nobility ot mind, give
me a Japanese husband. Little lady, what is your
_
“ Mimosa Ma.” She glanced at him, and he
saw in her dozing eyes the childish wonder and
amusement that beautifies the faces of Japanese
W rnu. en ' _ _
The luggers in the offing became wrapped in
mist. The booming ef surf came from a distant
headland.
* • * *
“The moon is shining,” said Mimosa. Her
eyes sought the starlit bay, and Bennet, with a
cigar fuming between his teeth, saw that in the
making of her face the gods had lent a hand.
Bennet also noticed that his chair was clamped
with brass, and as he lay back he felt that it would
have accommodated a giant or a family of police-
men. The elbow-rests were of Burmese teak, its
back was ornamented with copper images and
strange, fish-like devils that stared at him with
crystal eyes.
“The chair is from a Manchu temple,” she
laughed. “ My husbmd brought it from the war.
. . . Tell me, O Bennet, of the people in Syadney
that is as far from here as Japan. . . . Beautiful
Syadney.”
Bennet pushed the chair from beneath the
bamboo awning into the open. “ Let us go near
the water,” he said—“l hate dark corners arid
uncertain husbands. In Fort Said I spoke three
civil words to a lady barmaid, and a knife flew
out of a geranium-pot and cut a hole in the wine I
was drinking. I like the open air,” he sighed;
“ it never hits a man unawares.”
Mimosa toddled after him unabashed. “Do
not go far,” she whispered ; “the night-air is not
good for my slippers.”
Eight bells sounded across the bay. From
beyond the distant hummocks came the squeak of
a Chinese fiddle. “ Hi yah, sama choo yah. Hi
yah ! ” The shrill laugh of Chinese Kate broke in
upon the Mongolian song. The fiddle throbbed
on like a maddened nerve.
Bennet stretched himself in the chair like a
huge cat, while Mimosa squatted at his feet,
moving her fan as though it were a flame or a new
emotion.
“ Tell me about Syadney, 0 Bennet. Show me
your beautiful watch that goes ch’k-ch k.”
The moon crossed the headland, like the
Dragon’s Lamp seeking the Queen Beast in her
cavern. All along the Gulf the surf was breaking
with a silken thrash.
“Come with me to Sydney, Mimosa. I will
show you life and money. Come to-morrow,
Mimosa.” He stooped and kissed her fingers.
She evaded his touch with the skill of a fencer.
“You English talk, talk love. Show me your
pretty watch that makes ch’k,-ch’k noise.” She
leaned towards him with sudden tenderness.
The Englishman laughed, half-raised himself,
then something gripped him foot and waist; a
black fist closed on his throat until it seemed to
drive the blood unto his eyes. To Bennet it was
a new kind of garotte. It left him limp and
choking, as though he had swallowed a poisoned
eel. He felt a cord being drawn about his wrists
and ankles.
“ No good to kick, O Bennet. You see by-and-
by that Japan no damn fool.”
“ With the imprisoned blood roaring in his ears,
Bennet felt the wedge-like chin of Mimosa’s hus-
band crunching into his breastbone.
“ Not so rymbuck as you think, eh, O Bennet ?
It is up to you for a new face. Yoshimo ! Hear
me think.”
Through his strangled vision the Englishman
discerned the black close-cropped head of the Jap
sheller stooping over him. A thick halyard drew
his arms to the sides of the chair until they almost
cracked.
“What’s your game, Sustu Ma?” Bennet
coughed hoarsely and wriggled. “You mistake
me, perhaps, for a thief. I was merely talking to
your wife. I’d give something to know that
jitsu garotte of yours. Damn it! you’re not
nine stone.”
By way of answer the Jap knelt on the sand
and carefully examined the knotted cord. “You
are fat, 0 Bennet, but you are not strong. You
have mistake my house for a yoshiwarry. I begin
to have the white man’s feeling in this matter.
Mimosa is my long time wife. You see, eh ? ”
“ I ’ll buy out of it,” grunted Bennet. “ What
is the price of your feelings, Sustu ? ”
A savage arrogance came upon the Jap ; he lit
a cigarette and sat cross-legged beside his prisoner.
“The English, 0 Bennet, can look at death—
when they can buy out of it cheap. But death
cannot look a Japanese in the face—it can only
squint at him. You see me think, eh ? ”
“Good for you, Sustu. Loosen my hands and
feet and I’ll fight any kind of death you’ll put up
for me.”
The Jap’s face grew hard as stone ; an old scar,
wide as a bullet, trenched his cheek from eye to
chin ; he sat as immovable as an idol, and it
seemed to Bennet that centuries moved between
each heartbeat.
Mimosa was silent; she did not plead for his
life ; her attitude was one of pleasant obedience.
While the cord ate into his flesh she merely
smiled. “ The wet sand will draw the colors from
my slippers,” she said.
With nimble fingers Sustu relieved him of his
watch and chain, his diamond ring, and with brutal
cleverness he juggled in the half-light with the
sovereigns extracted from Bennet’s pocket. Then,
beckoning Mimosa to follow, he slipped away into
the darkness.
Bennet listened to the sound of the breakers.
Through the starlit haze he saw the white crests
racing over the near sandhills. It was evident
that Sustu intended he should drown in the com-
fortable rocking-chair. Another thought struck
him cold as ice. The creek at high water swarmed
with alligators ! He strained forward to get his
teeth into the cord that held his arms, but the
Jap. had left no stretchable parts in his hurried
bit of work.
Bennet breathed hard as the first incoming wave
touched his ankles. Within an hour the water
would be over his head. He was not certain even
now that Death’s approach could shake his cour-
age. It was a bleak, foolish end, and his vanity
cried against the way Mimosa had seemingly
betrayed him.
“ A watch and chain; a few coins ! Great Scott,
they’re worse than a pair of Mayfair bilkers ! ”
The sea approached stealthily, and blinded him
with spray. It seemed to him that a Chinese
fiddle was squeaking somewhere in the bed of the
ocean.
Something splashed through the water. A
faint perfume stole upon him. Through salt-
blurred eyes he saw Mimosa standing beside the
chair. A colored toy lantern hung from a stick in
her hand.
“England is getting wet,” she said, demurely.
“ You are a fool-man, O Bennet.”
“The water is as bitter as your treachery,
Mimosa. Have you discovered that I am too rich
to die ? ”
A white wave raced between them and re-
treated noiselessly. Mimosa ran a little way and
then returned.
“Sustu Mais asleep,” she said, plaintively. “ He
takes Chinese opium for his neuralgia. He will lie
until I pour the black coffee into his throat.
Listen, O Bennet.”
She stooped, holding her lantern towards the
inlet. Something was thrashing in the mud-belt.
The dark mangroves seemed alive with crawling
shapes.
“Never mind the alligators,” grunted Bennet.
“ You've got Sustu’s knife in your hand : cut
these knots—cut, cut the flesh if you like, and be
damned.”
Mimosa shook her head, “You will die, O
Bennet, if you put on pig’s head too soon. You
see me think—l talk like Sustu now. lam very
pretty.”
“You are,” assented Bennet.
“I want to live in Syadney. You marry me
quick? No talk, eh?”
From her pocket she took a sheet of paper, and
held it under the lantern so that he could see.
Bennet, with spray in liis eyes, read the neat,
copperplate writing—“ For saving my life, I
hereby promise to marry, at the earliest oppor-
tunity, one. Mimosa, a Japanese lady from Naga-
saki. Signed.”
“Cut this hand free, Mimosa, and give me your
little fountain-pen. Better to be a dry bigamist
than an unassuming corpse.”
Bennet danced in the sand to improve his circu-
lation, while Mimosa blew sand craftily upon his
wet signature.
“ I want to make sure that Sustu is asleep,” said
Bennet, quietly ; “I don’t want any more ji-jitsu
unawares.”
Mimosa, with a finger on her lip, led him to the
rear of the house. A lantern swung from a
bamboo. The Jap pearler lay on the floor, his
garotter’s face limp and drawn with pain ; one of
his large hands hung stiffly in the air, as though
thrusting back the horror of his dreams.
“Heis a bad man,” whispered Mimosa. “He
beats me with a rope, but you must forgive him."
Bennet was silent.
“ When shall we go to Syadney ? Where shall
I see you to-morrow?” She clung to him a little
as he plodded towards the township. “I will
make you good little wife. You will not be sorry,”
she pleaded.
A sudden depression seized the Englishman.
He held her from him so that the starlight fell
upon her face; he saw the kisses of Sustu, the*
garotter, on her lips.
“Mimosa, Igo from here to-morrow. I cannot
take you. A man must keep and marry white, or
his children will look at him with Mongolian
eyes. Do you understand ?”
She clung to him half wildly, and he listened
for a moment to her childish weeping.
“Meet me at the bank to-morrow at 10,” he
said huskily. “ I will give you fifty pounds to
take you back to Nagasaki.”
She met him next day at the bank. Wah Sang
over the way blinked and trembled at sight of the
money passing into her pretty satchel.
The eternal sorrow of Dante’s Beatrice was in
her eyes. “Good-bye, Mimosa.” He kissed her
in the street.
Her sobbing followed him to the steamer. The
sharp misery of it woke him in his cabin at mid-
night as the vessel headed for the straits.
“ Damn it! ” he said, “the look in her face was
terrible. I hope it wasn’t a fake.”
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
It is always necessary to go to a religious
faper for the nakedest untruth in a controversy,
'rom a N.S.W. Anglican organ :
To abandon family life for “free love,” as unblushingly
propounded by Socialists, and undisguised by the Labor
leaders in the sister colony of Victoria, through the Labor
paper in that State, means the denial of God, the destruc-
tion of the Church, and the breaking of every tie which
respectable men and women hold sacred.


For Old and Young
Public School Teacher 30 Years. Overworked. Completely Pros-
trated. How to Get Strong and Well.
S!i
»
m
Mr. H. C. Bret-
tell, Rozelle-Bal-
main, N. S, W.,
sends the photo-
graph of himself
and grand ch il-
dren, and says:
“Asa result of
overwork I be-
came completely
prostrated.
Friends advised
me to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I did
so, and before the
first bottle was
used I was able
to get up and
dress myself. Be-
fore I had used
three bottles my
appetite had re-
turned, and I was able to walk freely. Whenever I feel poorly I take a few
doses of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and lam all right again. I have been a public
school teacher for more than thirty years, and I can truthfully say that I
believe Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is as good for the young as for the aged.”
This testimonial tells two remarkable things about Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
First, that it will cure people when they are very ill indeed, “completely
prostrated,” as Mr. Brettell says. It also tells how valuable a medicine it is
when one is not very ill, simply “feeling poorly.” The reason for this is
because Ayer’s Sarsaparilla goes right to the foundation of things. In every
case it first removes all impurities from the blopd, and then renews and
builds it up. This brings good appetite, sound digestion, strong nerves, and
robust health.
It is “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla you want, not some new, untried kind. Get
the old, genuine, original Sarsaparilla, “Ayer’s.”
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER CO.. Lowell. Hass.. V. S. A.
I®;!
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILIiS
I* the Great Jingnsn Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, ,SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all othw Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
BO restraint of diet during 1 their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Free to Men.
to me and I will forward you my ciencine
* w book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asaing, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ili-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
Mohs Aemathi Gourauq, 82 Little Flinders St.,Melbourne.
Qronkennesg
Easily. Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few (loses produce a wonderful change. The
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing steep ensues. My cure will
surprise and delight you.
ONE OF MANY:
Raven sthovpe, W A., 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, which has effected
a cure. I hare no desire tor drink , in fact have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
Yours gratefully, R. 6.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address •
W M. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S , Eng.
129 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
Health, Strength and Vigor Reetorod In
Four Week* by using;
o* aico.R.o*
of
Tit «* omy lmai| i»la Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARjGOaELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions, Send stamps for free pamphlet,
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365, Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
■AgenUfrjr Australasia —PEßßY & 00., 47 Queen Bt.,
Melbourne ; KS. lF.— Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell
st., Sydney; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth,
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyno.
Every bottle of this well-known
Kemody for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BfiOH CHIUS,
DIAEKHffiA, *O-, bear, oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
SHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS al
Sept. 38 1896. say a;
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodyne. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to tha
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
ts best recommendation.”
A Handsome Present
sdg
A £2 Watch for only 12s 6d.
Cood, Cheap, and Reliable.
'PHIS Beautiful Solid SILVER
_ WATCH (Lady’s or Gent.’s),
with a guarantee for three years,
will be sent post free to any part
of the Colony on receipt of money
or postal note for 12s 6d. This
offer is made to advertise our firm.
BE IN TIME, AS WE EXPECT
TO SILL SAME VERY QUICK.
THE ENGLISH LEVER WATCH CO.,
BOX 360, G.P.0., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
BOX 405, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MEN, DON’T WORRY
After you have tried all other remedies for NERVOUS-
NESS, DEBILITY, etc., as thousands have done before we
CURED them. Let us treat you, FREE of CHARGE,
for ONE MONTH, with our NEW CONCENTRATED
BOTANIC EXTRACTS, and the BENEFICIAL RESULTS
will surprise you.
Address: Botanic Institute, Victoria
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
[Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal,
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne
ASTHMA CURED
at home TO STAY CURED. Causes remoyet
Health restored. Attacks never return. We hav
treated ever 82,000 Asthma and Hay Fever Patients i
Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, an
America. By Mail only. Not sold in stores. Write fc
Book 320, FREE, postpaid, Dr, P, Harold Hay
Asthmatio Institute, Buffalo, N.Y., H.§,A,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
Ij'Oß Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals. Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Tremblinsr Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a %
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion. Disordered Liver,
they act, like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beenham’s Pills hope the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinein
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENEL AND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is and 2s 9d each.
CARTRID GE S
ARE well known in Australasia. Their steady
advancement in popular favor -is due to
their sure fire, uniform and accurate qual-
ties. U.M.C. stamped on a cartridge head is a
guarantee of uniformity. All dealers carry
U.M.C. cartridges because they sell well and
satisfy their customers.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
ds
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
ARTER’S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLSa
They TOUGH
the
LIVER
Small Pill. Small Dost. Small Prices
Be Sure they are
■
gsd
CONSULT HERB MSSMUSSEN.
SPECIALIST
IN PRIVATE, NERVOUS. SKIN AND BLOOD DISEASES, &C., 40. (
Treatment by Post a Speciality. Advice Fvm.
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Celebrated Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a guaranteed cure for Nervous Weakness, Varicocele, Loss of Vigor, Melancholia,
Despondency, Spots Before the Eyes, Loss of Memory, Spinal Weakness, Confused Brain,
Bashfulness and Lost Vitality. Makes Premature Weak Men Strong and Healthy
Do*M,ty« sad 12/-. Ordinary Coarse, 23/6. Special Powerful Donbi® Course, 43/6. Writ* (or Circulars.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Cure all Contagious Blood Diseases, Skin Complaints, Gravel, Stricture, Affections of the
Bladder, Urinary Passage, and all Chronic Constitutional Blood and Skin Diseases, no mat-
ter how caused or of how long standing. They are Purely Vegetable, and contain no Mereury.
Rosea 6/, Course 23/6. Write to r circulars.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL RILLS cure Anaemia and Internal Female Complaints, Boxes 6/-
Conrse 23/6 j Rheumatic Pills, 6/; Pile Powders, 6/; Pat-Reducing Powders, 6,/; Liver Pills, 1/.
HEAD OFFICE : 547 GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY
Also at bis BRANCHES t -369 Queen St., Brisbane; IS Pulteney St, Adelaide; 91 Lambtea Quay, Wellington, N.Z.;
Perth, W.A., 481 Hay St and 111 Hannan St. Kalgoorlie. mans peter Rasmussen..
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. id.


A Good Macintosh!
RUBBER
BOOTS .
Mon’s—l2/S, IS,
17/6, 18/6.
Women’s—l2/6.
GOLOSHES.
Men’s—3/9, 4/-,
4/e, sb.
Women ’s—2/9,
3b, 3/9.
" CONNAUGHT Cape Coat, without
.Sleeves, 20/-, 35/-, 42/-
“ ASCOTT,” Sleeve Coat, with Ventilated
Yoke, 35/-j 42 /-, 50/-
Perdriau Rubber Co.“
(Late Perdriau and Co.),
RUBBER MERCHANTS,
270 George Street, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
telephone No. iOhS
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
:ES, TENTS and DANCING FI
of various sixes supplied.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY
Limited
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence St., Sydney.
PUMPS for all Services.
Condensers
High Lift Centrifugals
Oil Separators
Send for Catalogues.
Cooling Towers
Feed Water Heaters
Air Compressors
Meters.
..’'.S'''
’TJ~
&:>■
/S s*
TANG-YES
on ms
BENNIE, TEARS & GO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth and C Igardie.
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
g
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Mining Machinery, Steam Engines & Boilers
n -gsgm& umssm »3i * m ■ wihiwh i——■
yv • .. •
Sole Agents for
MORRIS MACHINE WORKS.
NEW SPECIAL HYDRAULIC DREDGING PUMPS.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
Australian
Mortgage,
INANCE
OY I TD.
WOOL, PRODUCE, and
GRAIN BROKERS
4 BUGH ST., SYDNEY
STOCK and STATION
AGENTS.
6ISEJ
Size, 51" x 3|' x s'.
We are Direct Importers
and have
for Sale—
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all sizes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
It. L. SCRVTTON & CO.. Ltd.
07 CLAREKTCE STREET, SYDUEY.
RAND COMPRESSORS
All Types and Sizes .
Belt-Driven Compressors for
Imperial Pneumatic Tools.
■ ♦
So/e Agents s
M. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.
RAND DRILL CO
BBS RAND COMPRESSOR, 1 h.p. per hour on 161 b. Steam.
RAND DRILLS
Record on the N. & W.R.R.
Bn one month 4 LITTLE GIANTS drove a 169ft*
heading, 6ft. high and 32ft. wide, single
shift, in hard sandstone.
71 Clarence-st., Sydney;
486 Goflins-st., Melbourne.
