

McEWAN’S ALE.
“GAELIC” WHISKY.
R. G. WATKIKTS & CO.,
Mining
107 Kent street;,
—rOB—
Engineers’ and
and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS GENERAL IRONMONGERY
Sydney,
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW AND
SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
aaoß-Arfr.
—*** —
(adley s Orient Hotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C.Lndowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
for Drying Wool, Sugar, Salt, Meat-Refuse, Laundried Goods Ac,
BROADEENT’S
Direct Steam, Belt and
Electrically Driven
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
Apply Tor Illustrated Lists
and Full Particulars to
the SOLE AGENTS-
ARE UNRIVALLED FOR EFFICIENCY AND ECONOMY.
CI3SOM, BATTLE & CO., 7 BENT ST., SYDNEY
"Take it* back,
1 must have -
HUTTON’S
Pineapple Brand I
HAMS 1
BACON.
I*
sAr
national,
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCES). OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000,
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
Now South Waloo Branch i
14 Spring St. f Sydney
(Opponto Head Office AuatraUan Mutual Provident
Society), w A GIBB, itanayer.
Active Agents and Oanvaesere Wanted. ■»!
/
OO
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
MCINTYRE
BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
mMM
w
r
BK
HSU
TEA!
AL
fCH
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FOI^
l Arom^Strengthf-'Purity:
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
liar QUAi
HARDY'S
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
New Zealand Loan « Mercantile Agency Go.
Ltd.
SYDNEY,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignment* of SHiEPSXIES. HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SXIKS are carefully attended u> by eur staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to rery best adrantage. Afcconnt Sales rendered
promptly. _____
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers few free storage of
their F»H particulars will be furnished on application.
HELIDON SPA.
Gollin & Co., Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 26.—N0. 1347. J
[Thursday, December 7, 1905.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


” Wvv ‘ to their work, the majority of our girls are
"°g «? t( L )e strong, virile mothers.”— J. W. Turner,
rs.o. Education Commissioner, addressing N.S. YV.
\\ omen s Progressive Association, 11 Sept.
THIS WEEK’S
NEW BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Jacob, W. W., Captains All, 2s 6d & 3s Gd, post sd.
Hichens, The Black Spaniel, 25.6 d &3s 6d, post sd.
Albanesi, Brown Eyes of Mary, 2s (Id & 3s Gd, post sp.
Alexander, Eleni. Electrical Engineering, 4s, post sd.
Geil, A Yankee in Piymvland, (is, post fid.
Beasley, London Bridge,'and How to Plav It, 2s 6d, p. 3d.
MSSpadden, Etori.es from Wagner, 3s, post 4d.
Pritchett, Eketches of Shipping and Craft, 3s Gd, post sd.
Ley, The “ Bo* ” Birthday Book. 4s. post 6d.
i Ye A' s ’ ,?• «•. K'PPS, wrapper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d post
an a l; s the “ Discovery,” new aXhea^r
eat., Ulus., 2 vols., wrapper ss, cloth 7s, post lOd F
n t-’ H™} 11 ?. Sword > 2s 6d &3s 6d, post sd.
balesbt, O. W. Evolution and Hereditary “Scientific
~, , b fries ” ea ch Is 6d, post free. “ ’ 6ntlfic
\\ ehster, J ■•• an, from the Old to the New, 6s post 6d
' V hart on, House of Mirth, 2s 6d & 3s 6d post 6d 1 6d '
Roseg-ger, Prisoner of the Cross, 3s 6d post 5d ’
71 C**tH>r.a 9 t»-Btreet i Sydney, and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and London.
Sold in Tins, 1/6, or Post Free on receipt of stamps from the Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
Queensland. SYDNEY DEPOT —5 and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the Australian States & New Zealand.
LONDON AGENT—\V. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Regent Street W.
THE RED PAGE.
Q. NORA TIUS FL ACCU S DAY
TO-MORROW we shall celebrate the
1970th anniversary of the birth of
Horace (be the same more or less).
One trusts this notice will enable the
daily press to publish mendacious' memoirs
and misleading descriptive articles (as re-
cently for Nelson and Trafalgar). The
virile mothers 7r of our much-endurin°
school-children, also, may be asked to pro”
\ ide cakes to be eaten at the planting of
commemorative trees, while festive ginger-
beer can point suitable allusions to the
foils Bandusise.” A 1970th anniversary B
plainly a much more important occasion tnan
a mere 100th, and Horace is much more
useful to us than .Nelson. For lb trace's in-
spiration flows on from year to year, and the
deed of Irafalgar has now only naval signifi-
cance—or would have, if naval authorities
could agree precisely what its lessons are.
1 a ue, irafalgar altered history; but then
everything else that is past and gone altered
history. We are partly what we are to-day
because of Irafalgar, but also because of the
battle of Hastings, the fall of Babylon, the
evolution of anthropoid apes, and the shrink-
age in the sun ; and nobody thinks of follow-
ing a Hindu method of counting digits so
far as to set apart a period of time to be
foimally bored by these things. Too long a,
foolish human race has been wasting To-Day
in awe-stricken contemplation of Yesterday,
and worshipping its dead ancestors instead
of its living children.
One of the reasons why Horace may be
extolled on his 1970th birth-anniversary (and
at any other time) is this : he was among the
hrst to ' understand the significance of To-
Hon t waste it,” lie said in effect
bury Yesterday with it.” Horace realisec
fully that Yesterday had become an attrac-
tive subject for occasional poetry ; and
instead of looking back for famous anniver-
saries, he very sensibly looked forward for
his fame—not for a century, but in smcula
saeculorum ; and so he gets it, But he only
gets it because he deserves it—as much to-
day as yesterday, and no more to-day tha
to-morrow. The deeds of Nelson and Augu
tus are in the same limbo, and in process <
time one set will seem as musty as th
onoR 1 "' Trafalgar will be remembered i
as Actium is now—or not so mucl
unless a new Shakespear illuminate Nelso
and Emma as the old one has lit Antony anc
Cleopatra. But, short of a cataclysm, Horae
in 2905 will still console and inspire hi s
readers.
‘ ‘ And is there no inspiration in the heroi
virtue of Nelson ? ” To be sure there is
and precisely for that reason one ought no;
to keep it on a shelf that is dusted only ever
100 years. One should live with it an
absorb it and catch dishonest politicians wit i
it. (Just suppose N.S.W. Ministry chasin
Carliumentary thieves as energetically as Nel-
son chased a French fleet J) There was realiv
a great deal of sense in the savage idea tha
to eat an enemy was, to acquire his prowess
Nelson and every, other hero should
physically or symbolically, be eaten anc
digested and transformed into fresh force foi
jo-Da/s uses. What is the worth of waking
Australia up with a centenary alarum-clock
to admire Nelson, if next morning she ones
to sleep over naval defence and forgets al
about him? Heroes are like breakfast
foods : they may have all the splenetic
qualities that the advertisements allege, but
if t hey are to do you good you must swal-
low them and make them part of your flesh
and blood and the day’s work. Otherwise
tiie panegyric of the hero and the advertise-
ment of the food are on precisely the same
plane of unimportance, and to choose an
arbitrary day for hero-worship, at the end of
ten-lingers of years x ten-fingers of years, is
just as silly as to set apart merely the second
Monday after full moon for eating breakfast.
Religious anniversaries are in a similar
prehistoric pickle. Lent and Ramazan,
Christmas and Passover, the Time-Spirit
smiles mockingly at them all. They belong
to tne superstitious category of mystic
numbers and magic squares, syllables of
unction and words of power. Except, of
course, as they are convenient ways of
attaining a useful end ; except, maybe, as
hey are mnemonic devices in which weak
nimanity may And strength. Life is a
petrifying spring, and many people require the
consentaneous impulse of the crowd to force
diem for a moment to stand from under,
lhe work-habit, too, is more pernicious than
morphia : now and again we may see the
Mine-Spirit as healer, applying his calendar-
holidays as antidotes to the quick poison of
toil. And some festivals of the earth we as
earth-animals can never escape from. While
the Spring surges, there mp'st be a year
anniversary of rejoicing that the syste
of telluric hydrostatics can raise ev
the most bigoted vegetarian’s blooc
pressure. let the main argument is u
touched. A true symbol fully embodies t
substance; and saintly spirits once ce
prated, if the celebration were effectual
should recur no more than the bodies th
they figure. No self-respecting cannibal wi
devour the same corpse twice.
Then why be devoted to the spirit o
Horace ■ Well, one pleads only for i
moderate devotion, at a liberal shrine. It
a matter of valuations. We live so late
tue world, and so much knowledge has bee
stored for us, and so much more is beii
provided every day, that eclectic philosop]
is a matter of necessity as well as a mann
of wisdom. The banquet is splendid; b
people who try to partake of every cour
will meet resurrection-day with faces
yellow as the guests’ whom Horace pitiec
at a fashionable Roman dinner. Choos
then—what will do you good. If you don’
appreciate Horace, the argument sugges
that the fault is in you : for Horace ninetee
centuries are barracking. He has the pr
scriptive authority of tobacco, and womai
and liquor : all good medicine, comforting
Like these lie is close to the earth, and ver
human. Imagine him as another Sanch
I anza, a jolly little fat man, black-avisec
with rubicund cheeks and twinkling eyes
distilling the shrewd wisdom of peasant Soli
mons. But if that were all, one could absor
his message like Nelson’s, and return to hir
only for readjustments. It is becaus
Horace said his deed that he outlast
Nelson, and because of the way in which h
said it. His words make the deed liv
always with fresh lustre, always for To-day
His literary epithets amount to a perpetua
emission of Nelson-signals, and some are no
without their heroic message. For thong
Horace lived withdrawn, and seemed con
tent with simple pleasures, he had an ey
and an imagination to kindle for his country
The strongest condemnations of anti-social
conduct occur in his verses.
J*
The half has not been said, but this should
be said in safeguard : that from another
aspect Horatian retirement, the Horatian
philosophy, represent (like Thoreau’s) the
weak man’s excuses to himself and others
for declining combat. Horace was too wise
too young, because his pulse failed early
His literary decoration of the quiei
life is somewhat narcotic for the strenu-
ous business of the world. A com-
munity of Horaces in Australia would
lead a delightful existence doubtless—unti
the Japs came and blotted them out. Is tc
do better than to bo ?— remembering that to
be is to do. One could not argue it for the
individual, but the community is compelled
to dispense with argument. Life, to be
Life, must remain dynamic, with Turgenev’s
ni behind it, to “ fight on and damn it
all.” So, after all, we must stick to the
idea that Nelson and a thousand others
represent; and if the Nelson-label is the
most convenient for the idea, by all means
glorify Nelson. But not at a stated time
and season : at every time, all the seasons.
♦ __
Geo. Bell and Sons (Lond.) give the desideratum
ot y ears a pocket text of Horace with a good
Lnghsh version on the page opposing. One
suspects that others also, tossed far from school-
day classics, may need for some portion of
Horace s work an interpreter or a dictionary :
not for the Odes well-conned, nor for the Art of
oetry, but for the Satires and Epistles with
virtue still to disclose. In this edition Coning-
ton s translation is taken almost throughout. One
thinks his Virgil was better ; yet the Horace is on
a good level, ail’d one can get critical interest in
attempts to improve it. Perhaps the worst of
Oonuigton is his habit of smoothing down the
coarse, vivid pictures that Horace sometimes
gives. In Odes 111/15, for example :
Illam cojit amor Nothi
Lasaivce similem liulere caprece ...
is spoilt by
No thus' love her bosom warms ;
She gambols like a fawn with silver feet.
Such malpractices are not numerous, yet still too
numerous. In some odes Conington is necessarily
surpassed by others. His version of IV/13, com-
mencing
The gods have heard, the gods have heard my prayer ;
Yes, Lijce ! you are grooving old, and still you struggle to
look fair...
compares ill with Calverlev’s
Byce, the gods have listened to my prayer,
Ihe gods have listened, Lyce. Thou art grey,
And still wmildst thou seem fair.
which, as Sendall suggests, hits the nail with
exactly the right force. Conington’s “Yes
Lyce ! with an exclamation, and his use of
‘you for ‘thou,” transpose the Latin into a
false key. Yet Conington has his triumphs too :
Vixi puellis nuper idoneus
et militavi non sine gloria:
nunc arma defunctumque hello
barbiton hie paries habebit.
(111/26) turns neatly into
For ladies’ love I late was fit,
And good success my warfare blest,
But now my arms, my lyre I quit,
And hang them up to rust or rest. ..
If we continue, Horace will appear characteristic-
ally. (“Links” means “torches.”)
Here, where arising from the sea
Stands Venus, lay the load at last,
Links, croivbars, and artillery,
Threatening all doors that dared he fast.
0 Goddess ! Cyprus mens thy sway,
And Memphis, far from Thracian snow :
Raise high thy lash, and deal me, pray,
That haughty Chloe just one blow !
As English verse that is of no account: its vir-
tue comes in fidelity to the Latin which it intro-
duces. If one relied upon the English alone, it
would be better to take one of the fragrant old-
fashioned paraphrases, which do translate the
spirit of Horace by mistranslating the letter.
Here is a 17th-century version of the close of 1/4 :
Since all the ivorld’s thus gay and free,
Why should not we ?
Let then accept our Mother Nature’s treat
And please ourselves with all that's meet:
Let ’s to th.e shady Rowers,
Where crown’d with gaudy Flowers
We ’ll drink and laugh away the gliding hours.
Trust me, Thyrsis, the grim Conqueror Death
With the same freedom snatches a King’s breath
And huddles the poor Slave
To's unknown Grave.
Tho’ we each day with cost repair
He mocks our greatest skill and utmost care,
Nor loves the Fair, nor fears the Strong,
And he that lives the longest dies but young;
And once depriv’d of light
We ’re wrapt in mists of endless Night.
Once come to those dark Cells of which ive 're told
So many strange Romanticlc tales of old,
No more shall Mirth and Wine
Our loves and wits refine.
No more shall you your Phyllis have,
Phyllis so long you’ve priz’d :
Nay, she too in the Grave
Shall lie like us despis'd.
Much of this is mere Horatian embroidery : yet
by force of losing his author the translator
gains him. Conington’s faithful rendering
is a means to understanding Horace in Latin, but
it is not Horace in English.
A hen Horace drops his jesting cloak and speaks
burning and prophetic words of the degradation
of Rome (111/G)
Non his juvmtus orta parentibus
Infedt cequor sanguine Punico...
Conington translates
Not such their birth, who stain'd for us
The sea with Punic carnage red . . .
Calverley :
Were those lads of such parents bred
Who dyed the seas until Punic blood ? . . .
but it is Dryden’s friend Roscommon who rises to
the height of Horace’s indignation :
’l’was not the Spawn of such as these
That Dy’d with Punick bloud the Conquer’d Seas 1
In this ode and elsewhere, by the way, the
edition under notice omits a passage—sometimes
the whole ode : a piece of foolishness. Horace is
not a writer to be expurgated, and the omissions
sensibly blot Conington’s work.
The book has not taken quite the right form. It is
bound in a good dark-red leather, with gilt top and rib-
bon. The gold stamping on the back, however, is unneces-
sarily descriptive: that the text is “complete with
Conington’s translation ” one learns from the title-page,
or for external advertisement the words can be printed on
? paper wrapper. The rule round “ Horace ”on the front
ns a decorative error. A worse fault is in the printing.
The type is neat, but has not been sufficiently inked, and
is grey throughout; the paper is too soft: a harder surface
would ha ve taken the ink better. The end papers are slightl v
too obtrusive ; and, except at the top for gilding, the
book’s edges should not have been cut. One stresses what
are conceived to be small faults, because this book is fit
to be a permanent treasure, and iiy that guise should fall
little short of perfection. \
0
A book of verse and prose by The Bulletin
contributor, Thos. Spencer (represented in The Bulletin
Reciter by “ How MeDougal Topped the Score ”) will be
published soon by N.S. W. Bookstall Co. A. C. Rowlandson
who stands for this Co. and the States Publishing Co., has
been responsible for the issue of quite a number of Austra-
lian publications this year. A packet of his view-books
and post-cards contains some creditable work. Choice
Views of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth,
and Tasmania (65.) is the most comprehensive local ex-
ample of its class ; and is the kind of educational picture-
book that should he distributed widely over Britain. The
excellent views are sold in sections at a lesser price
Margaret Flockton’s Australian Wild Flowers (Is)
and Neville Cayley’s Australian Birds (Is.) rep-
resent our own art and industry, and for Xmas
despatch from Australia are preferable to anything of the
kind imported. Mr. Rowlandson, too, is rearing an in-
dustry in post-cards, of which he issues 64 series, all
giving employment to local designers and printers, and
some of them artistically true and worthv. The “ Bush
Life ” set, from pictures by J. Hutchins, and the “ Thea-
trical Celebrities,” are especially good, and in the former
there is real Australian value.
One of the protestants against N.S.W. Govt,
action in the Mitchell Library matter, E. W. O’Sullivan,
is the very last person who should protest. The Mitchell
Library should have been built years ago, and it is owing
to the action of E. \\. O’Sullivan and his colleagues in the
last N.S.W. Ministry that it was not built. In the last
hours of the 1901 session E. W. O’Sullivan rushed through
Parliament a Bill to provide 67,500?. to build a new
library for Sydney University; and according to the
evidence of John Perry, late Minister for Public
Instruction, before the Public Works Committee, it
was on account of this vote that the question’ of
erecting a building to accommodate the Mitchell Library
and the overcrowded Public Library was postponed.
Parliament would not stand two such votes. According
to the Govt. Architect, the estimated cost of the Univer-
sity Library has now risen from 67,500 1. to “about
75,000?.” This expenditure was ostensibly secured on
the ground of a bequest of “ about 30,000?."” by Thomas
Fisher. The University Senate originally had deter-
mined to spend 20,000?. of this on a building to be
called the Fisher Library ; but, nding that E. W. O’Sul-
livan had so little capacity for discerning the public
interest, it naturally took all the public money it could
get; and the Mitchell Library and the Public Library
were relegated by E. W. O’Sullivan to the background.
On Sydney University, by the way, N.S. Wales has now
®J'P° nd , ecl or guaranteed an expenditure of more thin
600 OOOf Apart from the University building and land
fej'dney University has now money and property invested’
and drawing' interest, approaching' a total of 1 000 0001 ■
and collects besides an income of some 800 of. a year in
students’ fees, and a yearly Govt, endowment of 50001.
Collins’s Graphic English Dictionary (Lond
Collins ; 3s. Gd seems to be put forward as a rival to
Chambers s and Annandale’s at the same price. One does
not admit the.rivalry. Good points in The Graphic are
the excellent printing and (for school use and quick
reference) the large type used for words. The coloured
illustrations, one was about to say, are neither here nor
there ; but giving- Collins the benefit of the quibble it mav
be admitted that they are there—that is beyond Australia'
1 ictures of British birds are practically of 'no use to us'
illustrations of foreign decorations of honour are of no
value to us. If Collins wants his dictionary to
sell m Australia by reason of the coloured pictures
he should insert Australian coloured pictures. The
large type has helped to make the book too bulky—not
too bulky if every line told, but too bulky considering
that a great part of the dictionary is rubbish. The charm
of Chambers’s or of Annandale’s dictionary is good edit-
ing. The business of directory compilation and definition
suits the Scotch nnnd, which distinguishes clearly and
labours thoroughly, Collins has a Scotch editor too but
he must have been changed at nurse. His arrangement
is bad One does not want half an inch devoted to
pallidly and pallidness, for example. Dependent words
in such a dictionary as this should come under the main
word and save space. Again, in such a dictionary as this
onedoesnot want words \\keshintiy ail, skint iq an and sliodi'
Die Graphic spells words incorrectly, e.g., trior for trier ■
tatooaga for tattooage. About half an inch in thickness
of the book is devoted to a list of proper names, nine-
tenths of which, for Australian use, might have been cut
out. The definitions here are not always good : e.g,:
Macquarie. Lachlan Macquarie, Governor 1809-21: A
New South Wales affluent of the Darling ; 350 m. long.
Unless you know, it is not clearly to be inferred from
this that Macquarie was Governor of N.S.W. All the
names of small English towns like Maidenhead and Morley
waste space for Australian use. Space is wasted also oil
Labe, an Arabian enchantress mentioned in The Arabian
flights; Mai, A hgelo, Italian antiquary and classical
scholar ; and hundreds of personages similarly obscure.
In the focal opinion the dictionary is- positively bad, and
comparatively very bad, for want of an editor witli brains
or a tree exercise of discretion.
L. writes : "
Tiie suggestion 26 10/5) that the illustration of Ethel
Turner s books should be entrusted to Australian
designers moves one to ask whether Australians are
capable of drawing the adaptable children of the English
illustrator. For instance, the Australian girl and boy
(Lssm and Peter) of the cover-design and frontispiece to
Ethel Turner’s Little Mother Meg{ Lond., Ward, Lock ; no
date—? 1902) reappear as two American boys (Toddie and
t e ln f lwl Uspiece to the same publishers’ editions
of John Habberton’s Helen's Babies (Lond., 1905;
and 3903, in one vol. with Other People's Children).
In the Australian story the children have just had
a boat accident, and have swum out of a river fully
clothed. The illustrator indicates the moisture so in-
geniously that the same children can easily be accepted
as dry Americans. I don’t know whether they also figure
as boys of the Swiss Family Robinson or as Hans Ander-
sen’s lb and Christine, but the sex of one and the nation-
ality of both are so delightfully ambiguous that- there is
no particular reason why they' should not.
A selection of passages from The Rose-Garden
gr.Sa-.di is made by L. Cranmer-Byng in “ The
v\ lsdom of the East ’ series (Lond., Murray ; Is.
net). The translator seems to have little skill of
expression, but the rudeness of his versions adds a
certain salt of humour : they are plain, but whole-
some. Sa’di was borh in Shiraz about 1193, and
died 1291. Meanwhile, he was enslaved by Chris-
tians, and sent to work in the trenches at Tripoli.
There he was recognised by one of the chiefs of Aleppo,
who ransomed him for ten dinars and took him home and
married him to his daughter, with whom lie gave a dower
of a hundred dinars. The lady had a tongue of eloquence,
but not in the direction of poetry, and at length even the
gentle Sa’di turned upon her. Once, when reproaching
him, she said ; “Art thou not the man whom, my father
ransomed from the captivity of the Franks for ten
dinars?” He answered, “Yes, I am lie w’.io was re-
deemed for ten dinars and enslaved to thee for a hundred.’’
Sa’di’s poetry and wit shine even through the
English. This verse of Pantheism is sound doc-
trineto-day: Mis
The lovers by the Loved One all are slain ;
No voice can answer from the dead again.
Here is a pretty idea :
Green was the gay apparel of the woods,
Like festal robes on happy multitudes.
, A fragment suggesting non-interference in poli-
tics —bad doctrine : • j|
The king said ; “ Verily we are in need of one suf-
ficiently intelligent who is able to carry on the affairs of
the government.” He answered: “It is a sign of suf-
ficient intelligence not to meddle with such matters.”
“The red Gehenna of our dreams” may open
a vista. “Red Gehenna” is approved. So is
“ discordant blather.” " 3
None with an axe can mud from gravel part
As thy discordant blather breaks the heart.
Indeed, the more one looks at this little book,
the more one finds : it is worth the money. Here,
for example :
A fellow with a rasping voice happened to be reading
the Koran, when a holy man passing by asked him what
ho received a month for so doing.' He answered :
“Nothing.” Then added the holy one: “Why takest
thou this trouble?” He replied: “I am reading for
God’s sake.” Answered the holy man : “ Then for God’s
sake do not read ! ” 3
Or again, here is a source of some of Goethe’s
wisdom :
Dost want thy sire’s inheritance ?
Acquire his business ways,
Since all the gold that feeds thy glance
May melt within ten days.
And again :
A philosopher was teaching boys, and said to them :
“ O darlings of your fathers, learn a trade, since no re-
liance may be placed upon the possessions and riches of j
the world : for silver and gold are a source of peril, s lice
either a thief may steal them at once, or the owner waste j
them by degrees ; but a profession is a living spring and
wealth enduring. Although a professional man may lose
his fortune, he need not grieve, for his knowledge is
wealth of itself, and wherever he go he will he honoured,
and sit in .the upper seat; but he who has no calling will
glean the crumbs and suffer want.”
This should console the junior bar. And when
Sa’di had finished his book he affirmed big
originality thus :
The Book of the Gulistan has been finished, and the aid
of Allah besought. By the favour of the Almighty—may
His name be hallowed ! —throughout the work the custom
of writers to insert verses borrowed from the ancient
poets has not been followed.
A.G.S. j


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FITB. SKINS
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
it
Sure
Catch ”
FISHING TACKLE.
MICK SIMMONS,
Haymarket, Sydney.
We have the best assortment of Rods, Reels,
Lines, Flies, Minnows, Spinners, and Tackle
in the States.
i 1
1
Split Cane Rods.
No.
1 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, Cork Grip
and Handle, 50s each
1 Fitted with Lock Joints, 00s ea.
2 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, Handle,
40s each
i ) l£ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, in case,
22s 6d each
4 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, in case,
12s 6d each
Greenheart Rods.
No.
5 13ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 27s 6d ea
6 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 27s 6d ea.
7 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 21s ea.
8 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 15s ea.
9 13ft, 3 Joints, 1 Top, 14s 6d ea.
10 12ft, 3 Joints, 1 Top, 9s 6d ea.
The Standard Waterproof Plaited Silk
Trout Lines.
20yds.
No.
2 1/10 ea.
3 2/- ea.
4 2/2 ea.
5 2/6 ea.
6 3/- ea.
7 3/6 ea.
,V> * > /»>•»>-<»> V» > »»»<?
»*«iVe Ve e Wy -*
Wkssea:
40yds.
No.
2 3/8 ea.
3 4/- ea.
4 4/4 ea.
5 5/- ea.
6 6/- ea.
7 7/- ea.
/i°3oo
' \
Split Cana
40 yards
The Perfect Waterproof Plaited Silk Trout Lines.
Nos. 1 2 3 4 5 Nos. 1 2 3 4 6
.. Is 9d 2s 3d 2s 9d 3s 3s 6d each | 80 yards .. 3s 6d 4s 6d 5s 6d 6s 7s each
NOTTINGHAM WOOD REELS, with Moveable Check.
NO. 2
No. 2 —3 in., 5s 6d ; 3£in.,
6s 6d ; 4in., 7s ;
4£in., 8s; sin., 9s
No. 2a— 3in., 6s 6d ; 3Jin.,
7s 6d ; 4in., 8s 6d
each
No. 3 —Brass Plates and
Inside Lining, 3in.,
8s 6d ; 3£in., 9s 6d ;
4in., 10s 6d ; sin.,
16s each
CHECK
REELS,
Screwed Fittings.
No. 4—2Jin., 3s 6d ; 2|in.,
6s 6d ; better 2in.,
14s; Sin., 16s 9d
each. Aluminium,
3jin., 30s each
No.
4
Best Trout and
Herring Flies.
Trout Flies, Mounted on
Gut-
Nos. 6,7, 8,9, 10, Best
Hooks, Is 9d dozen
Nos. 7,8, 9, 10, 11, 12
Hooks, Is 3d dozen
Herring Flies on Gut, No.
7 to 12 Hooks, Is dozen
Best Trout Flies, on Turn-Down Eyed
Sneck Hooks, Nos. 3,6, 8,9, 10,
Is 9d dozen.
Best Perch Flies—Nos. 1/0, 2/0 Hooks on
Gut, 6d, 9d each ; No. 1/0, 2/0 Looped
Eyed, Is, Is 3d each
Special Grasshopper Flies on Gut, Nos.
1,2, 3, 4 Hooks, 6d each.
Special Gut Casts for Trout, 2 yards,
2d, 3d, 4d, 6d, 9d, Is each.
Mick Simmons
for Fishing Tackle ,
B
V
•At
Turn*
Down
Eyed.
Looped
Eyed.
Tackle Boxes and Bait Cans.
No. 8b —Japanned Tin Boxes for Tackle, 6d each.
-No. 68, better, Is 6d each
No. 67—Japanned Double-sided Tackle Box. 6d each
No. 69—6 in. Japanned Bait Box, fit round waist, Is 6d each
No. 70—6 in. Japanned Bait Box, fit round waist, 2s each
No. 71—Patent Bait Can (for carrying live fish), 6s each
No. 72—Patent Bait Can, enamelled (for carrying live fish), 8s 6d, 10s 6d each
NO. 67
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports and
Tobacco Lists Post Free.
* a jlp~ 3r —f
853
Patent
Collapsible
Trout Net,
EACH.
No. 86—4§in. Leather, Parchment, Is 6d each
No. 87 —4in. Leather, Parchment Pockets, 3s 6d each.
No. 88 —sin. Leather, Parchment Pockets, 4s 6d each.
No. 89—5 in. Canvas, Parchment Pockets, 6s 6d each.
No. 91—6 in. Patent Fly Clips, Pockets, 7s each.
Best Books for Holding
Flies and Tackle .
Artificial Baits for Trout, Perch and God
No. 112.
S.Allcock & C°_f PP Patent
Ring-mounted muDevon.
No. 112—Silk Minnows, ljin., 2in., 2Jin, 2|in., 2s each
No. 114—Pearl Minnows, 2s 6(1 each.
No. 115—Devon Minnows, assorted colors, lin., ljin.,
ljin., Is each ; l|in., 2in., Is 3d each.
No. 122 —Halcyon Spinners, lin., Is each; ljin.,
Is 3d each; 2in., Is 6d each.
No. 131—Special Rubber Grasshoppers,
Small, 6d each ; Large, 9d each.
No. 130—Pure Rubber Crickets, Locusts,
6d each ; Beetles, 4d each.
No. 123—Archer Spinners, Is 6d each.
No. 124—Fly Minnow, 6d each.
No. 125—Soleskin Minnow, 6d each.
No. 126—Sydney Spinners, small, 9d.
each ; large, Is each.
No. 127—Sydney Spinner, Single Hook,
3d each
No. 128—Flv Spoon, with 1 Hook, 6d ea.
No. 127—Pe'rch Fly Spinner, small,
medium, large, Is each.
Heavy Metal, Silvered Spoon Baits,
Mounted on Gimp,
lin., liin., ljin., 6d each
lfin., 7d each ; 2in., 8d each
2iin., 9d aa. ; 2iin., lOd ea. ; 2|in., Is ea.
Sample Sheet of Fish Hooks Gratis.
Patent Ring-Mounted
Devons•
lin., lfin., l£in., Is Gd each
If in., 2in., Is 9d each
No. 122.
Spoon Bait.
Heavy Metal, Scaled Back,
Spoon Baits, red inside, oo Gimp,
lin. .. 9d each
1 Jin. .. lOd each
2in. .. Is each
2Jin. .. Is 3d each
WILLOW TROUT BASKETS—
I‘2in., 6s. each; 14in., 7s. 3d. each;
loin., Ss. 6d. each ; lsin., 9s. 6d. each.
THE GROWN
WATERPROOF SILK LINES.
40 yards on Cork No. 3,
Is 6d each
ENCLISH PURE SILK LINES.
60 yards, Green, on Cork,
No. 24—6 d each.
No. 20—8 d each.
No. 16—9 d each.
No. 12—Is each.
No. 10 —Is 3d each
SgtlMj
mim
su«t catch
Wm
I'.IIUC’i!
m
Line on Cork.
50
28
26
2*
22
£O
18
/*•
/£
- 10
-——— -8
WATERPROOF SILK TWIST LINES, on CorK,
33 yards.
NOS. EACH.
14—33 yards.. 7d.
12—33 „ .. Bd.
10—33 „ .. 9d.
8—33 „ .. lOd.
6—33 „ .. Is.
JO
6O
ENGLISH FLAX WATERPROOF LINES
on Cork.
No. 60—Bream, 25yds., 6d. each; 50yds.,9d
each ; 100yds., Is. lid. each.
No. 30—Flathead, 25yds., Bd. each: 50yds.
Is. each : lOOvds., Is. 9d. each.
English Hemp Fishing Lines.
No. 80—Bream, 25yds., 6d each ; 50yds., 9d each; 100yds., Is each
No. 30—Flathead, 25.vd5., 8d each ; 50vds., Is each ; 100yds., 1/9 each-
Our Special Schnapper or God Lines
ROLLED ON CORK OR REEL.
9 Cord—
-100 yards, Is 3d each
150 „ Is 9d „
200 „ 2s „
12 Cord —
100 yards, Is 6d each
150 „ 2s „
200 „ 2s 9d „
15 Cord—
-100 yards, Is 6d each
150 „ 2s 3d „
200 „ 3s „
18 Cord —
100 yards, Is 8d each
150 „ 2s 6d „
200 ~ 3s 6d „
27 Cord —
100 yards, Is 9d each
150 „ 2s 6d „
200 „ 3s 3d „
36 Cord —
100 yards, 2s 6d each
150 „ 3s 6d „
200 „ 4s 6d „
18 Cord—Shark or Cod —
25 yards, 9d each ; 50 yards, Is 6d each ;
100 yards, 2s 9d each 200 yards, 5s each.
27 Cord —Shark or Cod —
25 yards, 1 s each ; 50 yards, Is 9d each ;
100 yards, 3s each ; 200 yards, 5s 6d each.
36
Stout
15
27
18
Shark or
Cod
Shark or
Cod
’T/SSSSSSJALZ/l
Remittance and Freight
Must Accompany Order.
SEKTD FOE. LISTS.
MICK
;E TRA.3JE SUPPLIED/
SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Australian Mutual Provident Society*
Annual Distribution of the Surplus.
ricAi u,vision ot ine rronis wm ~
made as at 31st December, 1905.
picu onjui.p a>° K ' eS ' ssuec * l )rev ’i° us to that date will share in the Bonus to be then allotted.
CASH BOH US year 1904 was £618,486 , yielding Reversionary Bonuses
exceeding one million pounds sterling.
RFMEMRFR Annfw- t,ecl * re ‘ l , this Societ y are larger than those of any other Mutual Life Office.-*!
REMEMBER. Applications should be made before the close of the year either direct to the
HEAD OFFICE s 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Directors Thomas liitflpinhn°V^, 10 rn?i; an ‘ V °* Ag-ents in order to reap the benefit of this year’s bonus.
Eituejohn, Esq., Clmirman ; Hon. A W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J.
General Manager and Aohiirv • Rkliawi t Esq. ; Benjamin Short, Esq. ; Janies Burns, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary . Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
8*
>
MACHINE LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
“ New Rival,” loaded with Black powder, and
“ Repeater,” loaded with Smokeless powder.
You only have to shoot them to prove their
superiority. They shoot stronger and reload
better than any other cartridges on the
market, because more care and science
have been put into their manufacture.
Ask for Winchester Machine Loaded “ New
Rival” or “Repeater” cartridges at your
dealer’s. They have Winchester patent cor-
rugated heads and are thoroughly waterproof.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS EVERYWHERE
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach. Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt * on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have «
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnpnrtd only by J. Q. ENO, Ltd., ’ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON. ENCK,
by J. O. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <f c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMHSSEH,
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
M TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
_l®s ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
111 Cure the Nerves, Ucbility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
}They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair,
t Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
P| fUfin PIIPP Dll B Q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
DLUUU wUfiC riL.L.9. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Mfnolr IA/nmnn Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
WBcaK HBUinCil Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z. MANB „„„ RASMU ,
Health! The Most Vital Interest.
LEARN FROM OTHERS’ EXPERIENCE.
The Case of
Mr. E. W. OAVIB.
(By a Sydney Keporter.)
It is safe lo say that the people
tvho have the most vital interest in
the following particulars arc those who
hnd themselves in a similar position
lo that occupied some seven years ago
by Mr. Edward Walter Davis, painter,
of Kenwick street. Marnckville, who
addressed these remarks to an inter-
viewer :
•‘lt was whilst 1 was living at
Leichhardt that I was so ill with
painters colic, and also rheumatism,
and 1 can give you my word that for
several months it was a doubtful mat-
ter liow things would go with me.
Both those complaints at once would
be enough to kill most men, and it
is no exaggeration to say that they
nearly caused my death. My digestive
organs were also in a terribly bad
way, so that, you see, I was suffering
from a serious complication of ail-
ments.’'
"bid you seek medical advice, Mr.
Davis ?’
Uh, yes ; 1 saw a doctor, and for
some time remained under his treat-
ment. which, unfortunately, proved to
be utterly u.-ckss. 1 took enough
medicines to do me good in thoso
days if they had been of the right
kind, but evidently they were not.
and the agony 1 was continually suf-
fering was simply intolerable. The
rheumatic pains in my legs had quite
a crippling effect upon me, for 1 had to
refrain from moving about as much as
possible because of any exertion ag-
gravating my alflictions. Nearly all
my joints were as stiff and sore as
could be, so you can imagine how dif-
ficult it was for me to do anything ;
but so far as doing anything was
concerned I hadn't the inclination, for
I felt as if the wholo world l had closed
its dioors against me. In my melan-
choly frame of mind i could see no-
thing excepting in the gloomiest of
colours, and all there seemed in this
life was to struggle hopelessly along
against overwh luring adversities. liad
1 been told that in a short while I
was going to die I’m sure it would
have been good news, for 1 was really
anxious to leave all my unhappiness
behind me.”
“It seems as if you had come to the
conclusion that you were not going
lo get better
•‘.lndeed, I could think nothing else,
because I could not get even a little
relief. My agonies had me worked up
to such a pitch of exasperation that
if anybody came and spoke to me I
could sva cely be civil to them. And
what fearful nights I put in week af-
ter wees. ! frequently no sleep from
tho time I went to bed till I got up
again next day, and I’d like to know
who could have got to sleep if they
had felt as I did, with the sensation
in my stomach as u everything was
being drawn up into a knot and then
screwed round and round. Combined
with these alflictions I had pains un-
der my heart, which caused me more
anxiety than enough, for what chance
had I of effecting a recovery if I had
heart disease as well, and the way
palpitation occurred made me think
that organ w a s diseased. This was
not all, though, as my chest had
heavy pains in it which’ affected my
breathing, and not a day passed but
what .1 was nearly distracted with a
headache. If 1 took a small quantit\
of food—and my appetite was too
poor to eat much —it simply turned
sour in the stomach and gave rise
to fits of belching, and a feeling as
if I wanted to be sick would come on.
Oh, there was no child’s play about
my illness, and I often say what a
lucky man 1 was ever to get rid of
“That is what I would like to hear
about. l)o you mind telling me ?”
‘‘Not at all. I am only too glad
for it was such a wonderful affair, as
most of the neighbours round where 1
lived could tell you. They knew Low
i suffered, and when they saw that I
was being pulled round they were very
curious to know what was the came
of it, and 1 told them Clements Tonic
was the medicine that was saving my
life, which was the truth. Besides
"hat I’ve already stated, I used to
get feelings of giddiness very often,
and my tongue was never clean, but
covered with slime, and in my mouth
the taste was like bile ; but when J
had taken a couple of bottles or so of
Clements Tonic I was not a bit like
that, and the old feelings of sickness
alter eating were gone. That was a
good deal to be grateful for, but no-
thing compared to what followed. J
used to dream a lot whenever 1 ob-
tained some sleep, and would wake
up in terror as if 1 had been dream-
ing of murder or something equally
bad, but Clements Tonic had such a
calming eflect upon me that when 1
slept 1 did so soundly, and felt as
fresh as paint when 1 woke up. My
nerves might have had a lot to do
with those restless nights, for before
using Clements Tonic they- used to
twitch dreadfully ; afterwards they
were firm and steady, and the little
involuntary jumps I used to give when
lying down were no longer in evi-
dence. 1 was not the same man at
all when I had been taking Clements
Tonic a few weeks. The acute rheu-
matic pains had been gradually be-
coming less and less .painful, and in
gxxxl time they died out altogether,
tiuch a thin<r might seem impossible,
but, on my honour, it is true, and
when 1 speak ol the colic pains I can
say exactly tho same thing—they were
done away with ny Clements Tonic
once and for all. Many of my work-
mates have reaped tho benefit of my
experience, for when I have told them
what cured me they got Clements
Tonic for themselves, and they havo
always spoken of the results in satis-
factory terms.”
“And how did your digestive organs
fare ?”
“Couldn’t possibly havo been made
more healthy than Clements Tonic
made them, which means all tho dif-
ference between a fife of joy and a
life of sorrow. It meant that my eyes
were no Jong'cr heavy and dull as
they had been, and it meant that I
could always cat heartily without fear
of being ill afterwards, for Clements
Tonic made my internal organs do
their work more perfectly than evor.
That 1. had got very thin could only
be expected, but under the treatment
of Clements Tonic 1 soon put on more
Ilcsli than J had boforo my illness, and
the additional strength 1 acquired was
amazing. My wife was also very ill
once, and Clements Tonic did her a
wonderful amount ol good, which
shows that it can be usod equally well
by either sex, to whom 1 unfailingly
recommend its use when circumstances
require.”
“And can we make use of this con-
versation ?”
“ Undoubtedly. You are welcome to
publish every sentence in any way you
prefer.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I. EDWARD WALTER DAVIS, of Renwick-
street, Marrickville. in the State of New
South Wales. Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
i-aretully read the annexed document, consist-
ing: of five folios and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and laithful account of my ill-
ness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment ; and I make
his solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
•l the same to be true, and by virtue of the
i ovlsions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
'fa?
Subscribed and declared at Sydney this
Uh day of November, one thousand nine
hundred and lour, before me,
J. H. BRANSGROVE, J.P.
Address,
A Beautiful (9 ct. Gold-rased ) Bracelet , a Solid Gold
Shell Ring, and a Handsome Nickel Sliver Watch, FREE,
Simply send us your Name and Address, plainly written on a postcard,
and we will send you 20 Packages of our unexcelled Violet Per-
fume, in a Box, FREE of all expense to you. You then sell the
Perfume among your friends and neighbours, at 6d. per packet, and
when sold, yon remit us the money you have collected, and we will send
you, abso'utely FREE for your trouble, the above-described WATCH,
or the BRACELET, and the RING. Both the Perfume and the
Premiums are sent absolutely Free of all charges. It is an entirely
new perfume and will sell easily, and each customer who buys a
package receives a prise ticket which entitles them to a beautiful
Brooch , absolutely Free. Our object in making this marvellous offer,
and giving such unusual fine premiums, is to get our very superior Per-
fume into the hands of the publie immediately, as we are satisfied that
everyone will be so w'ell pleased with it that they will gladly recommend
it to their friends. We have hundreds of unsolicited testimonials. You
simply send your Name and Address, plainly written on a post-card, and
■we will send the Perfume. No money required. We take all risk. Goods
returnable if not sold. Remember, we pay all shipping expenses.
“VIOLET PERFUME CO,”
3 AG PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ARE YOU BALD?
Providing you have a “ down ”on the scalp, I guarantee that
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC will make that “down grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capilla. 2/6 a bott e;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. 0.
Richakds, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.


v>
Z J.
It’s an easy job for tbe barber to
part tbe hair on a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do tbe right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is tbe story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
Wifer’s
stair Vigor
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing. I
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King- and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season's ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
11 Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
11 Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIHi AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
DAY
mWm
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says : " 4 Viyella ’ has
borne the test of years ; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
26 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
ROTHWELL’S i#
ONLY ADDRESS—
Edward St., Brisbane .
Send for Sample* of our
SPECIAL STATION SHIRTS
27/6 the half-dozen,
to order, post paid. (1
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
'V>
3
66
I have used Bonnington’s
Irish Moss for Coughs
and Colds, and any irrita*
tlon of the bronchial tubes.
It always gives relief.”
T. ; ;it is a plain, straightforward statement.
We could supply hundreds such. Cough
remedies have come and gone, but
ton’i
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of sales will not sell a remedy if it is not
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BONNINGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sake
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care*
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
s
teal
Better than ever—
the best watches in
the world. Behind
them are half a
century of high
reputation and a
strong guarantee,
good for all time.
L. I. FLEGELTAUB
ROYAL JEWELLER - - - -
HORO LOCUST,
WALTHAM WATCH EXPERT.
Exceptional Value
Gun Metal Watch
10s
Post Free Everywhere.
With our Guarantee of Accuracy for years.
90 King St., Sydney, n.s.w.
HONESTLY WORTH A GUINEA!
Pears’Annual
XMAS, 1905. Ready Deventer 27th.
‘ffelson lljis times’
Vice-Admiral Lord CHARLES BERESFORD
and H. W. WILSON,
With over 100 SUPERB ILLUSTRATIONS.
Published in celebration of the Nelson Centennial, and appealing
directly to the National patriotism of every one of British birth
throughout the Empire. The life of the greatest Admiral of the
past, by the Greatest Admiral of the present. Also
3 urge PBESEHTATION PLATES
(Easl i Printed in 13 Colours) 9
in the best and most artistic style of the Chromo-Lithographic Art, viz:
1. “Saluting the Admiral”
By Professor A. W. HOLDEN.
23% x IBVa inches•
2. “Sweethearts” By FRED. MORGAN. 23 x 17Vs Inohm**
3. “ She IJappy JKlothcr”
By Madame HENRIETTE RONNER
13% x 13% inches.
THE WHOLE ENTIRELY PRINTED IN ENGLAND.
Sold by all Booksellers; Wholesale Agents for Australasia—
GORDON & GOTCH.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There Was a Cry.
From the sounding bass of a prophet’s tone
A treble of grief is leaping ;
Mangled, her. dying children moan—
’Tis the voice of Rachel weeping.
Under the stars in the listening night
An old world voice is crying,
Weird echoes still replying
From caves in G'armel’s mountains :
“ O ! that mine eyes were fountains
That I might weep for those that sleep
Outcast along the city :
The Bear has torn the folk forlorn
And there was none to pity.
The snow once white is foul to tread
Dyed with a life-tide gory ;
The dogs make free among the dead,
The sun is dark, the moon blood-red,
And ‘ Ichabod ’ our story.”
From the moving bass of a prophet’s tone
A note of woe is leaping
Old griefs to bitter mourning grown—
’Tis the voice of Rachel weeping.
Under the stars in the listening night
An old world voice is crying,
The Syrian oaks are sighing,
The grass of Ramah shivers :
“ Oh ! that mine eyes were rivers
That I might weep while others sleep,
When dawn gilds spire and steeple—
Weep for the slain on the Russian plain,
The daughters of my people.”
From the deepening bass of a prophet’s tone—
As a sword from the scabbard leaping—
A cry, of cries most poignant known,
’Tis the voice of Rachel weeping.
Maoriland.
ROSLYN.
A Scotch Song.
This morning, ah ! the summer skies they held no
hint of rain;
This morning, ah ! my happy heart was still un-
used to pain.
The cows were in the pasture land, the grass
caressed my feet,
And clink ! clink ! went the milking pails the
bonny kine to greet.
Did the fairies send a warning ? If so, ’twas all
in vain,
The lilting of that wee white bird that flew along
the lane.
This morning how his words of love went singing
through my heart !
The words he whispered me last night where we
two stood apart;
The others romped within the light, but I, the
crofter’s lass,
Stood by the great laird’s bonniest son and watched
the dancers pass.
Oh ! I am lowly born indeed, and he is braw and
proud,
Yet his should never be the hand to help me to
my shroud !
For well he pressed my roughened palms and
held them close again,
And begged me for another kiss (dear God, I tire
of pain !).
I want to be a child once more, as but a year ago,
Before I heard his horse’s feet come stealing
through the snow.
And yet this morning I was glad—how foolish and
how vain ;
I laughed to see that feckless bird go flying down
the lane!
Oh ! was it love that flew away, so winsome and
so white ?
I saw him as he passed me down the windy croft
to-night.
A lady riding by his side —he touched her finger-
tips
With just the reverence and the love he once had
for my lips !
And yet the folly of it all—for me, the crofter’s
lass —
The maid who only stands aside to curtsey as they
pass !
Oh ! will the Summer die at last, and Autumn
come again,
And Winter, with its piercing cold, to ease my
burning brain ?
To think I once was glad to live before I heard
him say,
“Yes, only a rough crofter’s lass, but pretty—in
her way.”
To know that he should sneer to her ! Yet I forgive
the sneer,
But not the way he bent and smiled, and whispered
in her ear.
This morning the clear Summer skies held never
hint of rain,
And yet the drops are pattering now, and racing
down the pane;
The cows are lowing in the byre, the pasture lands
are wet,
They tell me that he weds with her, and that I
should forget.
I think a sign was sent to me that true love is in
vain
When that wee bird went lilting by along the
dewy lane S
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


SUPPORT THOSE
WHO HELP YOU.
The Pastoral Finance Assn. Ltd. (P.F.A.)
HELPS YOU.
This Company is freezing for Export over 40,000 carcases
per month—keeping up prices at Homebush Yards.
SUPPORT THE P.F.A.
by sending them your WOOL and PRODUCE for Sale.
Consignments should be advised to the Company at . . .
Head,Office: ia Phillip St., SYDNEY.
Manager : T. C. BOYD.
It is the best aperient procurable.
It is a certain and speedy cure for Constipation.
It renioves all impurities from the system.
It makes you feel well and strong, happy and contented.
It is not, like pills, a violent purgative, but a gentle laxative.
It is pleasant to the palate, being made up in lozenges, like lollies.
AI3 Chemists and Storekeepers sell LAXATiNE. Cite Shilling per Box.
Crackajack Professional,
KAJAC K
(SENIOR)
Crackajack Senior, 2/-
Crackajack Junior, 1/6
r BOSS CRACKER^!
Boss Cracker, 1/-
cRASMf
...a, e^BE
ijvieK
Crackajack Cadet, 6d.
Crackajack
MOUTH ORGANS.
The covers are of heavy brass, heavily plated,
and artistically engraved. It is impossible to
fully describe these instruments and their
musical qualities. They must be seen and
used to be appreciated. We can recommend
them as being superior to
all other Mouth Organs in
appearance, quality and
tone.
“/CRACKAJACKS” present
V- only the very Latest
not
Im-
provements but are unquestion-
ably t e Best and Most Beautiful
Toned Mouth Organs made.
The Reeds are of best bell
metal alloy, tuned by experts.
The frames are of thoroughly seasoned hardwood
the reed plates are solid brass, and every reed
tnneue is securely riveted. The Tone is perfected!
bv a system of voicing the reeds, which makes it nchj
and powerful in volume, and the reeds are subjected,
in a nrocess of special tuning, so that each note
throughout the entire register is absolutely perfect.
d 5£V ALLAN & CO.,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
House Cleaning
Carpets, Furniture,
Curtains, &c., cleaned
without removal.
CONVENIENCE, CLEANLINESS,
DISINFECTION, ECONOMY.
BY THE
Simpson & Barton
SUCTION DUST
EX TRACTOR,
Office: 14 O'CONNELL ST.
SYDNEY.
Telephone 2377.
{pay Write or Telephone us and our
representative will call.
NESTLE’S MILK •
THE WORLD’S STANDARD QUALITY.
• Nestle’s Milk Food
FOR CHILDREN.
„ s The ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR MOTHERS’ MILK.
BUSH FIRES
The recent bush fires have again reminded
pastorahsts that the safest, as well as the
cheapest, fence is the
ANCHOR FENCE
If you aro Fencing, write —
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane.
MELBOURNE—John Sanderson & Co.
ADELAIDE—George Wills & Co.
FREMANTLE—J. M, Ferguson, Ltd.
HOBART—William Crosby & Co.
LAUNCESTON—The Tasmanian Woolgrowi rs’ Agency
Co., Ltd.
A*//
THE NEW PATENT
Federation
Dropper.
♦
A Dropper without a fault.
Punched for 5 or 6 Wires.
Federation Droppers make a
fence the first cost of which is
the only cost.'
Federation Droppers are self*
contained, and require
No Wedges or Pins.
Once hitched into the slot by
hand the wire becomes locked
and immovable.
Federation Droppers are made
in England of Sieman’s Im-
proved Patent Steel.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 26.-No. 1347.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1905.
Trick 6d.
Poor overworked Lord jersey I He has contracted a chronic " Look*
Pleasant” smile. The cause Is not to seek. Here, for example, you see
him indulging In the ancient game of bowls with all the modern, drjr*plate
improvements. *
Sydney has evolved a tribe of arboreal police*
men. Last week two policemen, by concealing
themselves up a tree, managed (without Informa*
tlon received) to arrest two out of three persons
suspected of a park robbery. The third escaped.
Perhaps, if the police had been as ready with
their feet as with their heads, he too would
have been bagged.
Sydney Cky Council asks for authority to
resume ;and demolish slums, with a special eye
to Wexford=street. Bruce Smith is explaining
that the clean-up may create complications with
friendly As.atic races.
The arboreal policeman should make
things sure by Jumping down on his
victims.
Our ally from the window : “ Whaffor you
shlftee my dirt?”
CARTOONLETS.


XfIAS EDITION
....0F....
The Bulletin, 1905,
w A Special & Enlarged Issue.
Published on DECEMBER 14.
It will contain Verses, Sketches and Stories, grave and
gay, by the foremost ivriters of the Commonwealth.
The illustrations ivill represent the best Black and White
work in Australia, and ivill picture the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year, is the
standard epitome of the life of young Australia.
Agents will be supplied at the usual
rates, but, in consequence of the heavy
outlay on this Special Edition, NO
RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
be mailed at once.
Single copies post free to any of the Commonwealth
States and Maoriland, G\d. ; Foreign addresses, Bd.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiib Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy .” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
dlivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tioo columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lilacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson Jc Co., 38 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town ; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong llono. —Brerver and Co., 33 Queen's Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai .—Brerver and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x Hein.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
“Posters” ivill be attached to agents' parcels if The
Bulletin is satisfied they ivill be displayed.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1905.
JOE’S CUP.
All he could say, therefore, was this : “ If they want to
fill up the cup of iniquity to the brim, then let them do
it. Matters will, by conduct of this description, be
brought the more rapidly to a conclusion, and the situa-
tion ended.”— Premier Carruthers of New South Wales,
Last week a small incident happened in the
Senate. The vote for the maintenance of the
Governor-General’s residence at Sydney was cut
down—or rather the Senate suggested that it
sliould be cut down—as a hint towards its final
abolition. Hitherto Australia has been put to
the expense of maintaining Government House,
r, , .. a ~
Sydney, as an extra or superfluous residence
for the Governor-General. He doesn’t want it,
and he hardly ever has tune to use it.
When Parliament is sitting he requires to be
most of the tune in Melbourne, and when
N.S. Wales allows the Federal capital to be
fixed he will have to be at the Federal capital.
The rest of the time he wanders round a good
deal, and he has never shown the least desire to
be burdened with an extra household at Sydney.
But some Sydney politicians declared that the
poor old Ma State would be wronged and blighted
if the Governor-General didn’t have a residence
there, which was much of a piece with the same
crowd’s demand that the first Governor-General,
when on his way out here, should not be allowed
to stretch his legs ashore at Perth, or Albany, or
Adelaide, or Melbourne, because the poor old Ma
State would be grievously slighted and struck by
the left hook of opprobrium unless his Ex.’s boot-
sole first touched Australian soil in Sydney. No
other State demanded that the Governor-General
should have a costly and superfluous extra residence
on its territory, but the Cabbage-Tree Mob of Syd-
ney politicians makes N.S.W. quite unlike every
other State. So N.S.W. turned out its State
Governor to make room for the greater Excellency
who, as a rule, didn’t come, and both the
State and the Commonwealth paid a good deal
of money needlessly over the matter. At the
same time the present N.S.W. Government has
threatened more than once to resume posses-
sion of Government House, and to eject the
Governor-General who isn’t there, so ap-
parently it doesn’t really want him after all.
In fact, it has gone so far as to give notice
of ejection. At last the Senate grew tired and
proposed to drop the unsatisfactory arrangement.
It wasn’t a “Victorian conspiracy” this time;
the only "Victorian who voted gave his voice for
keeping on the payment for the empty house
rather than aggravate the poor old Ma State.
But a combination from the other four States
reckoned that it was time to save a little money.
On being appealed to later on not to aggravate
the poor old Ma State, the combination thought
better of it and withdrew its suggestion, and the
affair dropped.
* X * *
Out of this matter arose Joe Carruthers’ dark
observations about the cup of iniquity, and the
possibility of that drinking vessel becoming seri-
ously over-crowded, also his threat about some
“situation ” which won’t last much longer. Pre-
sumably the little man is again hinting at
secession, and this constant hinting at secession
on the part of a small, skimpy solicitor who
apparently hasn’t the beginning of an idea how to
secede grows wearisome. Carruthers’ favorite
attitude these times is that of the boy bushranger
who buys a cheap Belgian pistol after reading
“ Thunderbolt,” and goes out and scowls darkly
at a heifer and says “A time will come.”
He is a blowing and puffing political in-
fant, who looks as if he were almost liable
some day to run up a barricade of two
boot-trunks and a perambulator in his back-yard,
and throw off his allegiance where he is sure no
one will hear him throwing it. He is the mental
duplicate of the young man described by Dickens
who rose in the interior of the United States, and
said, in a deep voice, “ Produce your British
lion,” and laughed a deep bitter laugh when the
animal didn’t at once enter the hall. Yet Carru-
thers’ professed desire to throw off the yoke when
he can’t find any yoke ; and his attitude of Ajax
defying the lightning on a fine day, mingled with
that of Napoleon crossing a dead level range of
Alps; and his habit of letting down his back hair
and crying out that the jug is overflowing, or the
coal-scuttle is pretty full, or the cup will
presently slop over into the saucer—all
these things are not really worth the
price of admission. They make a poor show,
and they can all be heard any night at Bland
Holt’s theatre, where Albert Norman does them
a great deal better. Of course, no one dreams for
a moment that Carruthers’ tremendous remarks
about the “cup,” and the “situation,” and all the
rest of his baby bosh, really mean anything.
These observations only rank in popular estima-
tion with the ten-year-old school kid’s smudgy
but bloodthirsty essay on pirates, or the threaten-
ing attitude of Augustus Moddle, Dickens’
youngest boarder, when he rose up in Mrs.
Todgers’ hash-tower and threatened to demolish
the eldest boarder with firearms. He also said some-
thing to the effect that the time had nearly come,
and when it did arrive the corpse of a certain
fish salesman’s bookkeeper would accumulate on
the premises. But still it may be that the public
does Carruthers an injustice in taking this view,
for even the very youngest boarder’s gun goes off
at times, and the mildest solicitor, if he talks
secession long enough, may be driven at last either
to try to secede or to hide himself in the cellar till
his own remarks blow over.
■* * * *
This paper urges PremierCARRUTHERS toconsider
these possibilities and to do something definite—
either to shoot and be done with the matter, or to
stop talking a|M waving his gun in the ozone. If the
bath-tub of iniquity, or whatever the vessel may
be, isn’t yet quite full of iniquity let it either be
considered full or else let it be filled up with
water. Them some real business may commence.
The country wants to see its Joseph starting to
secede in dead earnest, so that it may stand round
and admire the circus—it hasn’t any real hope,
but it wants the circus all the same. It wants to
see Joseph build his barricade, or hoist his red
flag, or introduce his Secession Bill, or haul
Prime Minister Deakin before the High Court,
or throw road metal at Bill Lyne, or do anything
at all except whine in a corner and talk about the
injury done to the poor old Ma State. He has
found so main alleged injuries done to the poor
old Ma State that if he allows the State Parlia-
ment to close up without striking a blow at
the Hydra head of iniquity, or throwing a
ball of paper at the monster of oppression,
the public will be disappointed. If another session
passes in the same futile way, the public may even
be angry. And if Joseph goes on persuading the
people of Sydney that the poor old Ma State is
such a badly-trodden-on female they may—though
it seems hardly likely—become really serious about
secession, and then they will sack Joseph for not
knowing how to secede, and give his job to some-
body else. If New South Wales is so much in-
jured as Joseph says it is, then it is a mighty poor
Joseph who won’t do something more than whine
in its defence. At present the imaginary wrongs
of New South Wales are Joseph’s sole political
stock-in-trade. He lives on his imaginary valor
as the individual who confronts the imaginary lion
of Federal tyranny, and he excites a certain thrill
by his perpetual assurance that things are hasten-
ing to a crisis, and that the day of reckoning
is fast approaching, and that tlie “situation”
is near its end, and that the curtain is about to go
up, and the pop-gun is on the verge of going off.
But he can’t go on like that for ever, and there
are so many ridiculous possibilities in the busi-
ness that, unless he is really going to revo-
lushe some day soon, it would pay him better
to get a real State policy and live on that. If
the people don’t believe his tale of wrong, and
if he still goes on talking, they will end by
giving him the sack for being an irritating circus
ass, and an animal with much dreary repe-
tition in his bray, and a great excess of bray in
his repetition. And if they do believe him they
will demand some day that he go forth and tear
up the alleged lion of Federal oppression as if it
were so much wet blotting paper, and produce the
carcase of the animal as an evidence of good faith.
And no one has seen Joseph tear up a fly, let
alone a lion. Besides there isn’t any lion.
THE TENDER MERCIES OF ANOTHER
SHARK.
In connection with the split in the N.S.W. Rail-
way Commission, the right-thinking people and
papers are skilfully dodging the main issue. The
Railways wanted a large quantity of coal, chiefly
for the western lines. This fuel used to be sup-
plied at the pit at Lithgow for less than ss. per
ton. Years ago the Labor party proposed that
the department should run its own coal mines. It
pointed out that the Railways were by far the
largest consumers in the State, that their demand
for coal was constant, and-that^-even if they
did not sell an ounce of mineral, they could
easily keep a couple of large Western
pits going. The right-thinking people and
papers scoffed at the proposal, of course, as a gross
interference with Private Enterprise. That a
grosser interference with both Private and
Public Enterprise might happen in the
future didn’t occur to them; or, if it did
occur to them, they carefully stowed the danger
away in some corner where it wouldn’t be noticed.
Yet something of the sort began to happen
promptly. Competition, which the right-thinking
people were positive would ensure a fair deal
for the Railways, was rolled out almost flat under
the wheels of an association which the coal-sup-
pliers formed ; and the price of coal moved up
steadily. But there were still some mines that
did not come into the Combine, and these tendered
at something like the old price, whereupon the
Combine promptly set to work to knock them out.
* * * *
For close upon seven years it did its
work effectively. The Railways during nearly
the whole of this time were not paying,
and to make up the deficit the people had to be
taxed. Between June, 1901, and June, 1904, the
department showed a loss of £1,067,260, which
had to be made good out of either taxation or
loans. Meantime, the farmers in the country
were told that no more concessions could be made
to them, and the manufacturers in the cities were
oppressed by heavy freights. The State had kept
out of the business of mining coal for its own use,
on the plea that it would* interfere with Private
Enterprise ; and the resul£was that the State was
forced by the Combine into paying such a price
that, in turn, it had to interfere with Private
Enterprise in a hundred different ways, and even
then couldn’t come out square. At the beginning of
the financial .tear 1904-5, however, something hap-
pened. A couple of collieries not in the Combine
tendered for part of the supply for a year, and
one of them got a contract at something like 3s. a
ton less than the Combine’s price—a difference
on the year’s supply of £7OOO. That lasted for 12
months. But the combine wasn’t dead yet. It
next tendered to supply 130,000 tons a year at
7s. 3d. per ton, and 45,000 tons at 4s. 3d. per ton.
These two lots of coal—one at 7s. 3d., the other at
4s. 3d.—would come out of the same group of
mines ; the whole explanation of the remarkable
difference in price was that the four-and-three-
penny coal was “for depots at present supplied
by the Irondale colliery,” the Irondale colliery
being the mine that hadn’t joined the Combine,
and which had dared to supply the railways at the
old price of about 3s. less than the Combine’s
monopoly price. In other words, where there
was no competition the Combine charged 7s. 3d.
per ton; but where there was competition the Com-
bine charged only 4s. 3d.—until it could kill the
competition. As chairman Oliver, of the Rail-
way Commission, put it in a minute —
While competition was available the Lithgow associa-
tion supplied coal at a low rate some seven years ago, but
when that competition ceased, then prices went up to an
unreasonable figure, which we have had to pay during
recent years. The revival of competition last year by our
acceptance of the tender for Irondale coal had the effect
of bringing down the Lithgow association for next year
from 7s. 3d. to 4s. 3d. for 45,000 tons, with the clear in-
tention of cutting out the Iropdale, as indicated in their
tender, but for the further quantity of 130,000 tons, they
maintained their high price of~7s. 3d. per ton. The reduc-
tion in price was, therefore, solely due to the competition
which, in my judgment, it was desirable to continue.
# It * #
But Chairman Oliver was overruled ; on the
plea that the Irondale coal was not as good, a
three years’ contract was made with the Combine
for 175,000 tons per annum at a price which works
out at 6s. sd. per ton all round—2s. 2d. per ton,
that is, in excess of what the Combine was pre-
pared to supply coal for under competitive con-
ditions. Thus on the whole contract the State
will pay £57,000 more than the same quantity
would have cost under competitive conditions.
The acceptance of the contract means, no doubt,
that competition will be killed stone dead, so
that, if the State does not take steps to open up
its own mines in the next three years, the price
will go up to the old 7s. 3d. when the present con-
tract runs out. In fact, having killed competition
—having taught interloping Private Enterprise
a sharp lesson—the Combine will possibly
put up its price to Bs. 3d. And, hav-
ing helped to choke competition, the State
will have to pay what the Combine demands.
The Railways must have coal, and, having helped
to put the coal-supply securely into the hands of a
monopoly, they will have to pay just what the
monopoly calls for. Out of the claws of the octo-
pus which the State has itself helped to create there
is now only one sure way. It can obviously no
longer depend upon competition. It knows also
what happens when there is no competition—
Chairman Oliver’s report puts that plainly. In
that dilemma it must prepare to mine its own
coal. To have neglected that plan for so long is
a serious reflection upon the management of the
Railways—it was merely a concession to the stupid
party which has made a bogey of Socialism and a
fetish of Private Enterprise. But the question of
Socialism doesn’t come into this matter at all. The
ownership and control of the Railways is a well-
established feature of public policy, and the State’s
business now is to run them on business lines.
There is certainly no well-conducted business
establishment anywhere that, for one of its
essentials, would so completely put itself at the
mercy of a monopoly as the Railways have done
in this case.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Fading Memory of a Drunk.
“ The truth had better be out,” H. C. Hoover, a
member of the firm of Bewick, Moreing & Co.,
told Westralian Ministers and others last week —
The ore reserves to-day are only the remnants of the
rich ore bodies above the 1200 ft. level. Another three or
four years would see them depleted, and, if nothing came
forward to replace those mines, the gold output must
fall by at least 400,000qz. annually.
The Bulletin has been saying these things ever
since the situation called for the remark ; now,
on the eve of his departure from the country’,
the expert member of the firm which is sup’-
posed to know more about Westralian mining than
any other two put together, repeats the warn-
ing. This paper isn’t concerned for the moment
with the mining speculator; he, at least, is sup-
posed to know what a mine is. This paper is
concerned now simply with the State. What is it
going to do about the matter? It has been living
m a fools’ paradise. The other day it gave a
thumping majority to a Premier and Treasurer,
who said the prospect of a £323,000 deficit for the
current year did not alarm him in the least. For
the past three years the State has had a chronic
deficit, and every year the disease has grown
worse. Meantime, every shilling that Cohen
would lend has been borrowed—latterly on most
disastrous terms —to carry out works in the dis-
tricts which, according to expert Hoover, will
either peter out or shrivel up within a few years.
This year over £2,000,000 in dividends'.'will be dug
outof Westralian mines and put into the pockets of
mostly-foreign people. These people are rushing
the gold out of the country with all possible
speed ; in four or five years the cream will be
gone ; unless other discoveries are made, only the
skim-milk will be left. And instead of making
these people pay—these people who are rushing
out the most-easi! y-got wealth—they are permitted
to escape taxation to such an extent that deficits
are chronic. They are dragging the gold out as
fast as engines can do it for them ; and Westralia
is actually borrowing money to buy the engines
for them to do it with. Presently the bill will
come in—and the people who are left with the
skim-milk will have to pay it. If ever there was
a country in the world which ought to resolutely
set itself to pay its way, that country is West-
ralia. It is a country which has been simply roll-
ing in riches, and, instead of taking a fair propor-
tion of those riches and using them to develop its
resources, it has borrowed for the purpose, and
the present Ministry proposes to go on borrowing;
and the future generation, which will have to
meet the bill, will be a generation for whom the
riches will be only the memory of a drunk that
their spendthrift, shiftless fathers had.
Bent’s Unsettled Settlement.
The Bent Government is evidently backing-up
its Closer Settlement Board in an attempt to bluff
Victoria re the Overnewton Estate scandal. A
few weeks ago one of the Government valuers
(Mr. John M’Ewan) wrote to the Age stating
what he had done towards warning the Lands
Department against purchasing the Overnewton
property for closer settlement purposes. In his
report to the Minister he said: —
Unless the owners are willing to excise 5900 acres, and
allow the Government to purchase 3200, being the only
portion suitable for settlement, it would be better for the
Government not to purchase the property at all.
This was in July last year, four months after the
estate as a whole had been vainly offered at
auction. The Closer Settlement Board came
into being on January Ist. this year, and
early in May the Board bought all the
land—the bad along with the middling—
that M‘Ewan had reported on. Six months
elapsed ere this Overnewton country was divided
into lots and submitted for settlement, and then
the accuracy of the valuer’s judgment was proved
by the fact that 5400 acres, out of the 5900 which
he had condemned, were left on the Government’s
hands— i.e., the Board has purchased some £30,000
worth of land which doesn’t invite settlers. When
valuer M‘Ewan’s revelations were mentioned in
the Vic. Assembly they were met with an out-
rageous bluff. The Minister tried to discredit
the critic by alleging that his valuation had been
£3 per acre more than the Board paid for Over-
newton. And there were other incorrect com-
ments passed on other valuations, with a view to
taking the wind out of M ‘Ewan’s sails. Further
correspondence in the Age shows the valuer to
have been a thoroughly capable expert in all cases
where the Government employed him. As regards
the Overnewton estate he gives facts as follows: —
I valued 9143 acres at £5 4s. Bd. per acre, and as the
Board purchased at £5 10s. my valuation was ss. 4d. less
than the price actually paid, and not £3 per acre more
as stated in error by the Minister. The Closer Settlement
Board, or possibly the Minister, has possession of this
report, and the above fact can be promptly verified by
reference to it. I have only to add that I cannot see why
so much trouble should be taken to defend a purchase
which is admittedly a blunder. It is not a question of
price or valuation so much as the suitability for closer
settlement. The price paid for it is not an outside one
for one purpose — viz., light sheep-grazing, for which the
land has been used during the last 60 years. Oats or
wheat, or any other cereal, would have as much chance of
growing on the 5900 acres as they would have on the
metalled portion of the St. Kilda-road.
This is the story of a man who has nothing to
gain by telling unpleasant truths, whereas the
Bent Government is deeply interested in the
endeavor to hide any blunders that reflect failure
on the useless and incapable Closer Settlement
Act, and it would seem that the bluff is not con-
fined to the Government. The C.S. Board has
champions among the very people who were
expected to visit its notable sin upon the Govern-
ment’s head.
♦
“ Lobbying.”
In view of the recent disclosures of the lobbying
done by importers in order to persuade the
Australian Parliament to destroy or discourage
native industries, The Bulletin again asks that
a Commission be appointed to find out what
inducements the importers held out in order to
secure votes. In the “Balata” belting, case it
was set forth in quite a series of letters that the
importers “worked” the two Houses of Parlia-
ment in order to secure a great reduction of
duties. Before that, in the matter of the spirit
duties, the importers’ agent, Aloysius Fox,
brazenly sued his employers, the importers, in an
Australian court for the price of his services in
persuading members to so vote as to completely
cripple the Australian spirit industry. The boast
that he had crippled it was made openly in Ins
own correspondence. It is certainly time Parlia-
ment held a searching investigation to find out
how these things are done. “ Lobbying” in the
United States is reputedly a bald, naked and
unashamed process of buying votes.. Now that
the importer has started to “lobby” in Australia,
it is worth while finding out how the thing is done
here. The Australian manufacturer is mostly too
poor to buy more than an impecunious member or
two, but it is only necessary to consider York and
Clarence and Pitt-streets in Sydney, and the
neighborhood of Flinders, Cfcllins and Bourke-
streets in Melbourne to see that the importer is
rich enough to buy a whole Parliament for cash, it
he wants to do it and if the Parliament is for sale.
And some of these rich men, by their own show-
ing, have sent agents to approach members ol
Parliament, and these agents, by their own
showing, have persuaded members of Par-
liament to change their views, and turn a more
favorable eye on the importers’ interests. It may
be that it is the eloquence, the sterling character,
and the commanding intellect of the agent that


does it —even though the agent may afterwards
have a squalid squabble with his employers in
Court about the price of his services in the way of
crippling an Australian industry. But if the
country hears much more about the successful
lobbying done by rich men’s agents to get damage
done to Australian industries, it will begin to
wear its tongue in its cheek and to talk plainly
and coarsely about members being bought. It is
impossible to quite believe that the importer who
pays an agent to undermine Australian industries
would stick at paying a politician. Parliament
would do well to inquire into the matter before
ribald accusations get fairly started.
-
The Apotheosis of the Jap,
[For The Bulletin.]
He’s the wonder of the nations,
Is the tricky little Jap,
Hailing from those eastern islands,
Marked in yellow on the map—
(Off shore from Mongol Asia on the map).
And the nations Trans-atlantic greet with adula-
tion frantic
Every circumstance romantic that’s connected
with the Jap.
He is brave and he is clever ;
He’s inscrutable and keen ;
He is all and more than ever
Any other race has been—
(Any other nation ever yet has been).
Man of virtues monumental is this splendid
Oriental.
He is brave, heroic, gentle, imperturbably serene.
He is temp’rate and forbearing;
He is honest, true, and just;
Given not to senseless swearing—
Given not to breaking trust —
(Save only and excepting when he must!).
And tho’ the subject be distressing, let us straight-
way be confessing,
That, by Buddha’s special blessing, he is wholly
free from lust!
In his private life ascetic,
In his public life sublime,
He is never apathetic,
He’s “ extended ” all the time !
(Striving ever for the highest all the time).
And to judge from words emphatic, penned by
journalists ecstatic,
Well, the oily Asiatic hasn’t very far to climb !
m.l. Sinclair S. Clark.
♦
The Blessings of Asiatic Labor.
Even the Asiatic papers now admit the failure of
the Chinese' labor experiment in S’Africa. A
recent Englishman (Calcutta) comments: —
Considering how completely all the prognostications of
the advocates of Chinese labor in South Africa have been
falsified, it is not altogether astonishing that a certain
amount of resentment should be rising among that part
of the community which gains nothing from the importa-
tion, but which stands in greater danger from the out-
breaks which are constantly taking place than the mine-
owners themselves.
Salvation by Chinese labor—for S’Africa and Aus-
tralia—is now only preached by ignorant English-
men and worse than ignorant Australian Tories.
And even the Englishmen are beginning to find out
things. London Daily Mail, the other day,
printed from a special woman correspondent this
about the Reign of Terror which the Chow has
brought to S’Africa :
Everywhere it is “ the Chinese Terror.” In the town,
folks look as if they want to clap their bands for joy as
the Johannesburg mounted policeman—very smart and
well-groomed in his uniform, with a magnificent piece of
horseflesh under him —rides down towards the Law
Courts with a string of Chinese deserters in tow in blue
blouses, long black pig tails, and expressions on their
faces of supremest indifference to whatsoever their fate
may be. .. Where, outside the darkening- forests, lonely
Boer and other homesteads are dotted, all seem crazy
with “ Chinese terror.” Here the Boer farmer with his
young sons, a lowering expression of rage and hatred on
his bearded face, is digging holes all round his homestead
“ for the Chinese,” and in two he lias spring guns. A
savage dog stalks around, with dripping jaws and long
red tongue, and if a Celestial comes along that will be his
next meal. Inside, the vrow is standing on a tin hat-
box on a chair, nailing up a window which has not a
fastening. Last night someone tried it. Johann sits
sharpening an axe, occasionally swinging it fiercely
round his head and muttering “Yah!” For this
family knew poor farmer Jourert, just murdered by the
Chinese ; and the mother, who was on an adjacent farm
on the night of the murder, and saw Joiibert’s face after
death, speaks, covering her eyes, in low, shuddering
moans of the sight of the room. Though she tries to be
civil to you, still you are one of the Rooineks who have
brought this fresh trouble on the land once theirs ; and
far away on the sky-line are the Great White Mines whose
bowels of gold have done all the mischief from the war
up.
And only last week an Australian convention of
G. H. Reid’s Foreign-trade women called for the
introduction of Asiatic labor as a “ reform ” for
Australia !
4.
The “Union Label.”
When accounts come to be made up, probably it
will be found that the most useful bit of legisla-
tive work of the present session of the Australian
Parliament is the legalisation of the much-abused
“ union label.” Quite outside of the merits of the
matter itself, its indirect consequences have been
fruitful of good, since, owing to it, the Opposition
was at last induced to face a fight in the
open, and thus clear the way for sensible Stand-
ing Orders of debate and a working programme.
But, leaving that out of consideration, the
“union label’’ promises great benefits. In
the first place, its incidence will be dis-
tinctly Protective. Only Australian goods
made under fair labor conditions can have the
benefit of the label. Foreign-made goods will be
debarred from its use. - Thus the public will have
a ready means of finding out Australian goods and
of giving a preference to our home manufactures.
Just as important will be the facilities the measure
gives to the public to distinguish between articles
which are made under fair conditions and the
products of sweating shops. It is to the growth
of a healthy public sentiment against “sweating ”
that a civilised community must look as one of
the valuable means of social reform. Legisla-
tion, wisely designed and firmly administered,
can do much to ensure fair wages and
reasonable hours for the worker; but the
reinforcement which social legislation may get
from a healthy opinion is of the utmost importance.
The general trend of human thought is, so far as
concerns the majority, towards good—when it
doesn’t involve too much trouble. Most men
would prefer to “do the square thing,” all
circumstances being equal; and most persons would
prefer, if allowed a free choice, to deal with the fair
and honest employer. The trade-union label will
enable the public to exercise that preference
since what articles have been manufactured under
trades-union conditions will palpably be 11 fair-
labor” goods. When it has been said that
the label will assist the patriotic Australian
to give preference to his own country’s goods
and the social reformer to give preference to
fair labor goods; nothing remains to be urged for—
or against —the measure. But the Foreign-trade
newspapers—which bitterly object to allowing
facilities for an Australian preference, and are
shocked at the idea of any check on the nefarious
tricks of their importing friends, and don’t wish
to see anything done to promote fair wage and
hour conditions in which, as Foreign-traders, they
do not believe—have contrived to cloud a fair
discussion of its merits with the usual
mass of lies and misrepresentations. The extent
to which these went may be best judged from
the impression they made. A very fair-minded
and capable man now visiting Australia, dis-
cussing the union label with a member
of the Australian Parliament, expressed sympathy
with the idea of allowing the public means to dis-
tinguish between fair-labor goods and others, but
was antagonistic to the union label clauses “be-
cause they went too far.” A little conversation
elicited the idea that he had formed of the union
label from the frenzied shrieks of the Foreign-trade
p ress —that it forbade any article to be exposed
for sale in Australia unless it bore a label showing
that it was made by union labor! He was in a
difficulty to discover how it was going to be applied
to coal or groceries or cabbages. Yet another, a
citizen of Sydney, an acute lawyer, and with some
personal experience to warn him of the unreliability
of the daily newspapers, had acquired the impres-
sion that the proposed law made it compulsory for
employers, in at least certain trades, to employ
none but union labor and to so brand their goods.
As a matter of cold fact, the Trade Marks Bill
only secures tO trades unions by express enact-
ment what they formerly had by Common Law—
the right to register a device showing that their
labor has been exclusively employed in the
making of certain goods. It is provided that
this device may be, or may not be as he himself
chooses, printed by the employer on his products.
If he uses the device, he can appeal for the support
of fair-wage ad vocates. If he thinks it better busi-
ness not to use it, he needn’t do so. The union
can’t force him to employ the label, but he
can force the union to let him use it if he observes
their conditions of labor. Further, if he observes
fair conditions but does not choose to employ
union labor, or to advertise by label the fact that
he does, he may, on proof to the Government of
fair conditions in his factory, obtain a Common-
wealth label guaranteeing his products as “fair-
labor ” ones. Nobody but the pirate and the
sweater —or, to put it shortly, nobody but a con-
firmed Foreign-trader—can object to this.
The N.S.W. North Coast Kailway.
The Carruthers Government, which fails to
decorate N.S.W. as a general thing, has at least
made one proposal which points towards honesty
and common sense. The North Coast railway is
wanted —urgently wanted. There is reason to
believe, however, that if it is built wholly with
borrowed money it won’t pay interest on its cost.
Therefore Premier Carruthers proposes to pay
half the cost out of revenue, so that the line will
only have to struggle with the interest on the
other half. It is a grievous pity that, while he
was at it, he didn’t propose to pay the whole cost
out of revenue, but in a land of ghastly dishonesty
so far as State finance is concerned even a small
instalment of honesty and decency is something.
Significantly enough, N.S.W.’s blight and evil
genius, the Sydney Telegraph, which has backed
Carruthers cordially in many a muddy political
transaction and many a murky dodge and wile
and shift, turns dog on him just here—or at least,
if its proceedings are not strong enough to be
called dog, it turns pup on him—and holds forth
thus: —
The latest intention of the Government regarding- the
North Coast railway, as explained by Mr. Carruthers
yesterday, is “to put it in the category of a reproductive
work, and attach to it a condition that the cost should
come equally out of revenue and out of loans.” But how,
by any mere book-keeping operation of this kind, a work
can be made reproductive that otherwise would not be
so, the public are left to find out for themselves. If this
railway will earn interest on the cost of its construction,
it would stand in the category of reproductive works, no
matter where the money was procured from. Failing
that condition, it must go in the other category, and the
difference between the market value of the capital spent
on it and the annual interest return remain a dead loss to
the people who have to make it good.. . The line
should wait till it comes into the category of reproductive
works.
Put in a condensed form, the Telegraph idea is
evidently that we should measure everything by
the length of Cohen’s nose, and that we should
invest in none of the adjuncts of civilisation
unless they will directly pay interest on the full
amount of their cost in borrowed money,
whether the money is borrowed or not.
The idea is worthy of a paper which
imports its financial expert from England,
and fills its money column so full of remarks about
the state of the Bank of England that it hasn’t
had time to discover the existence of Australia
yet. The civilisation of Australia, or of any other
country, isn’t a thing to be wholly measured by
the price at which money can be borrowed in Eng-
land. Australia needs military and naval
defences, schools, roads, bridges, harbor works,
and hundreds of other works which won’t pay
per cent, on their cost—which, in fact, return
nothing per cent, directly, and often call for a
heavy outlay for maintenance as well. And it
needs many railways which won’t pay per
cent, directly on their cost either, but which may
pay 2 per cent, in cash and make up the other
per cent, indirectly by contributing to the progress
and civilisation of the country. If the country
went in for nothing which at the outset
left a gap between what the Telegraph calls
“ the market value of the capital spent
on it and the annual interest return ”it
would still be as purely aboriginal a land as
Captain Cook found it. No country which isn’t
ready to spend many hundreds of millions on
enterprises which pay a great deal less, directly,
than 3i per cent.—which often pay directly nothing
at all per cent. —is likely to come to much. And
just at present, with many millions of gold lying
idle in the banks and earning nothing at all, it
would be a payable spec, to invest a good deal of
our own money in a work that would return 2 per
cent, in cash at once, and perhaps much more later
on, and add an indefinite amount to the aggregate
value of the country. The absurdity lies in the old
practice of building 2 per cent, works, or less than
2 per cent, works, with money borrowed at 2>\ or
4 per cent., and in thinking that we can borrow a
civilisation at the pawnshop, and in mortgaging
our progress and our prospects and our infant to
the foreign Jew. We want a civilisation of our
own, paid for with our own money. But if we
wait for art and science and education and de-
velopment till we are quite sure they will pay
per cent, from the start, we will wait a long,
lingering time. Even Christianity didn’t pay 3|
per cent, at the beginning, and couldn t have
floated a loan at Antioch to save its life. Yet
Christianity and the North Coast railway are both
progress and both worth paying for.
c
More N.S.W. Lands Muddle.
There are already in N.S.W. 27 ways, apart
from sheer stealing, in which it is possible to
occupy State lands—auction purchase, after-
auction purchase, conditional purchase, home-
stead selection, conditional lease, pastoral lease,
ordinary occupation license, preferential occupa-
tion license, homestead lease, settlement lease,
improvement lease, annual lease, scrub lease, snow
land lease, special lease, inferior land lease, arte-
sian well lease, western land lease, residential lease
on mineral fields, improvement purchase, and
mineral or auriferous lease; also, it is possible to
acquire a pastoral lease under the Church and
School Lands Act, likewise a mining lease, agri-
cultural lease and building lease; and when none of
these fits the case there is always the “permissive
occupancy ” to fall back upon. Now at the tail end
of the session, State Premier Carrutiiers has
devised still another Lands Bill, and proposes to in-
vent a “conditional purchase lease”—a 40 years
lease with appraisement every 10 years and right
of purchase at any time. In addition to this
the Bill seems intended to patch the already
much-patched and amended land laws in
almost every direction, and it also provides for
“the temporary administration by Commissioners
of the Department of Lands.” The Commissioner
idea, which is greatly in favor just now, is a bitter
satire on the present system of Party Government
or Government by Contradiction. In Switzerland
Ministers are elected by Parliament, presumably
on account of their fitness, and their appointment
is for a fixed term of years. Therefore they really
are Commissioners. In Australia, following the
foolish English system, they are appointed for a
wholly unfixed period which may be a week or
may be some years, and nothing is said about their
fitness; the man who moved the amendment
which upset the last Government is Premier, and
he distributes the portfolios among his friends, or
his creditors, or his best supporters, or the enemies
he is most afraid of. This scheme has worked so
badly that, first of all, the railways were put
under permanent Commissioners—the dazzling
succession of political rulers who might last three
days or a year, and who might or might not
know an axle from a signal-box, grew too exciting.
Next the control of the Civil Service was taken
out of the hands of Ministers and put under Com-
missioners. The alleged Sinking Fund and the
resumed area of Sydney are under Commissioners.
The Lands now go the same way ; as Parliament
has not the sense to give up the party system and
elect its most competent member as Lands Minis-
ter for a fixed term so that lie may be the Com-
missioner, it is proposed to give some kind of per-
manency to the lands policy by putting the public
estate under the control of outside Commissioners.
It is only necessary for the Works Department
and the Treasury to go also into the hands of
Commissioners, and then the present temporary
and accidental method of Government, whereby
Brayhard, M.L.A., becomes for a fleeting mo-
ment Minister for Anything That Happens To
Be Lying About, will be revealed as the huge joke
it is. Either Ministers must be their own Com-
missioners—elected because of their presumed
fitness by Parliament to run certain departments,
subject to Parliamentary control, for a fixed term
of years—or apparently a time will yet arrive in
N.S.W. when the Government will have nothing
to do except invent grievances against the Federal
authority and watch Commissioners doing its
work.
A Moan About the Mines.
London Daily News on Johannesburg :
Johannesburg is an enchanted city, and nothing
seems able to break the enchantment. At first it was
said that if Krugehism were banished and a British rule
established, all the land would flow with milk and honey.
Well, the British rule came. Then the cry wafc for limit-
less labor, cheap labor, yellow labor. It was‘gratified-
still no change. Then it was said that a huge output re-
vealing the potentialities of the mines—“ potentialities
beyond the dreams of avarice’’—would make Johannes-
burg-leap into life. And the new “ record ” comes, but
it does not remove the enchanter’s wand. Hotels, banks,
vast offices, are springing up everywhere in anticipation
of the golden time that is so long overdue ; but the sun
still rises and sets on the Enchanted City—a city where
trade is stagnant, where labor is negligible, where poverty
and hunger haunt th§ streets, and where only the fabu-
lously rich grow fabulously richer.
We should prefer to say that it is a Disenchanted City,
not an Enchanted City. It is a city whose foundation is
lies, greed, and disloyalty. It is the product of Stock
Exchange finance, and of cosmopolitan adventurers, who
are none the less cosmopolitan because they are given
English titles. Johannesburg flung itself at the feet of
the German Jew financiers. It believed that if the
British could banish the Boer from his own land all the
plunder of the Rand would be its own. The war over and
“ the corrupt Boer oligarchy ” a thing of history, Johan-
nesburg has discovered that it has helped England to pull
the chestnuts out of the fire for the Wernhers, the Beits
and the Barnatos. The white man, who alone works the
inferior mines of West Australia, and works them at a
profit, is found too costly a servant for the Hamburg
diamond merchants who now rule the destinies of the
Transvaal. Nor is that all. He is too dangerous a ser-
vant, as Mr. Lionel Phillips has frankly admitted, for he
would demand a vote—that very vote which was, indeed,
the prime object of the war. And so the mines are filled
with yellow slaves, and the earnings of the laborers vanish
to China.
Nor is that all. Johannesburg awoke after the war to
find itself “ A Tied House ” of the Randlords. It was not
only the mines that they possessed. It was its commerce
that they controlled. The middle man who supplied the
necessities of the mines has been largely displaced. The
great houses provide themselves with their lightest needs,
just as the great brewery supplies the public with its own
matches and its tobacco. And above and beyond all this
there is the disillusionment of the home investor. He
has passed through years of bitter enlightenment. He
understands to-day as he did not understand when, in
the language of his poet, he “killed Kruger with his
mouth,” the sinister figures and sinister influences
behind this tragedy of the Rand. He knows, especially
if he chances to have had any dealings with Rhodesia,
how he was deluded by the brilliant fiction of the pros-
pectuses, and how worthless mines were floated on a tide
of mendacity. He, in a word, like Johannesburg, is dis-
enchanted. He has buttoned up his pocket, and not even
the attractions of cheap and limitless Chinese labor and of
“record” outputs have restored his confidence in aland
where gold is abundant, but where its only fruits, so far,
have been blood, confusion, and slavery.
♦
The Asiatic Briton’s Opinion.
Dear Bulletin, —I was in Shanghai when the
result of the peace negotiations came to hand,
and was astonished to find the joy with which the
Japanese back-down was received. They know
the Jap better in Eastern Asia than anywhere
else, just as the gentleman who wears it knows
where the shoe pinches. The orthodox outside
idea, is that the Japs are a mild, picturesque, toy
nation with picturesque ugly women, prettily
dressed, whose expressionless, inane faces are the
index of womanly submission, good nature, and
domestic subserviency; and of polite men, who
bend double in excessive self-depreciation when
they meet you. It does not need a long sojourn in
Eastern Asia to ascertain that the Japs are uni-
versally hated there, and since their rapid military
and naval rise, are feared as well. The Japanese
ii-..un j.auts in places like Singapore, Hongkong,
Shanghai and Tientsin, can generally be divided
into three classes —the barber, the bagnio geisha,
and the merchant. The two former are in the
way of rapidly becoming monopolists, and they
carry on their callings at least faithfully and con-
scientiously, according to their lights. The latter
is known commercially as a rogue, a shuffler, and
a repudiator. The Chinaman rejoiced more than
anyone else in the Jap diplomatic defeat. He
has had some experience—more, perhaps, than
anyone else—of the Jap’s propensity, for back-
ing out of a bargain which turns out disadvanta-
geously. Also, the Jap can argue the leg off an
iron pot when he is trying to wriggle out 'of a
trade agreement. The Chinaman is not argu-
mentative. The wonder is that the peace envoy
of “ Mdtsuhito the Magnanimous” (vide British
press) did not prolong the duel with Witte until
the Russian was talked or bored till death. An
American who has lived in Japan accounts for
the commercial probity of the Chinaman and the
equally notorious roguery of the Japanese in this
way: In old Japan the soldier (Samurai) class
was the national hero and ideal. Trade (as in all
early feudal societies) was looked upon with con-
tempt, and got into the hands of a pariah class,
which existed in Old Japan and exists in the New.
In China, on the contrary, the soldier was (and is
to-day) drawn from the pariah classes, and was
despised; while peaceful trade and commerce
were the national ideals, and the merchant classes
were esteemed and admired. That, says the
American, is why the Japanese merchant imitates
trade marks, and repudiates contracts, and why
the Japanese courts legalise, or illegalise, his
repudiation ; while the Chinese merchant’s word
is his bond, and a parole contract with a Chow is
as much respected in Asia as a contract under seal
would be with a Jap. The military prowess and
success of the Jap—and I do not gainsay or
depreciate it—has only thrown into bolder
relief the qualities which have made him odious.
Whilst at ’Ome, and in some circles in Australia,
the Briton swells out his chest with pride at the
Jap alliance —as who should say “one English-
man and a Jap are equal to three Frenchmen ;
while a British alleged poet (a patriotic poet!) can
be found so abject in his adulation of the Jap
successes that he prays God in his goodness and
favor to graciously permit the Briton to become
some day as good a man as the Jap (vide Mr.
Richard Straciian Rowe, in the Monthly
Review) —the Briton in Eastern Asia loathes
the Jap and abhors the alliance, which he con-
siders in the last degree degrading to the white'
races ; which he knows has lowered his prestige in
the eyes of the Chinese, among whom he has to
live ; and which he considers a standing procla-
mation of Britain’s Imperial decline. It may
safely be said that the whole body of international
traders in Asia who have had experience of the
Jap rejoiced with the Far Eastern Briton at
the back-down of the victorious Jap before the
press-defeated Russian. A prolonged contact
with the Japs appears to have the same effect upon
everyone—it excites a feeling of dislike and
repulsion even in those who have, from a distance,
admired their wonderful art, their undeniable
progressiveness and successful self-development,
and their marvellous military organisation and
personal courage. Foreign opinion, often ex-
pressed in Eastern Asia, is that the Japo-British
alliance is a betrayal of the interests of Western
civilisation, which will sooner or later bring its
own punishment; and that opinion is shared and
voiced by the expatriated Briton, who makes
no secret of his dissatisfaction. As to the idea
that the Chinaman is waiting in his childlike and
bland manner for the superior Jap to come along
and make a soldier of him in millions, in order to
fight the West, it is absurd. John is not built
that way ; but if he did desire to rise in the mili-
tary scale (and the Peking crowd has such ideas)
the great majority of him would rather have the
devil than the Jap as a military master—Yours,
Locust.
♦
A Matter of Weeds.
The utter futility of leaving important matters,
where any expense is necessary, to municipal
councils composed of landlords, is well exemplified
by what is happening in Victoria in connection
with the eradication of noxious weeds. The Local
Government Act requires the councils to see that
all noxious weeds aie eradicated before they get a
firm footing ; but in practically every instance
this important provision is a dead letter. The
Victorian Government entomologist, Mr. French,
has several times drawn attention to the spread of
the deadly imported weed, St. John’s wort, in the
north-eastern district, but to no effect. He
says :
A few years ago I pointed out to the Rutherglen
Borough Council what they might expect from the Weed
if they did not take stern measures to check it, and to-
day they are doubtless sorry they did not take the advice
given.
Probably they are not actively sorry ; but, even if
they are, all the sorrow in Rutherglen woijß eradi-
cate one root of the weed. In fact, if the sorrow
is expressed close to the weed it will refresh it.
Mr. French continues :
Should the weed get a footing in the rich lands of
Gippsland, it will be a bad job for the rural prospects of
Victoria . . . The administration of the Noxious Weeds
Act must be at once removed from 1 all local bodies, and
placed in the hands of the Government.
And when the Government tackles the jcfb, as it
must inevitably do sooner or later, it will be a
very big job indeed. The inert municipal coun-
cillors, who could once have dealt with it by
expending a few pounds, wasted their time and
their money in organising anti-socialist leagues
and opposing the union label and other foreign
matters. At the present time, Victoria is the
paradise of weeds, most of which were imported.
Just now, the Western District is a blaze of
yellow, the Cape weed pest being in flower. This
weed has owned the roads for years, and is now
steadily occupying the paddocks to-the extermina-
tion of the rye-grass, clover and cocksfoot. Also,
armies of men are now busy trying to cut out the
so-called Scotch thistle; and it is impossible to
travel far in the most fertile parts of Victoria
without coming across the star and other thistles,
the furze, the blackberry, the sweetbriar, and, a
number of kindred vegetable pests, which will,
unless drastic measures are taken, eventually
occupy the whole of the country. A good pre-
liminary measure would be to pull the councillors
backwards through all the furze and briar found
in their territory.
The Victorian Cold Tea Crusade.
For the past few years the Victorian Cold Tea
party has been in a condition of unwonted
quiescence, and the banner of Bung has floated
triumphant, with an average of only one decayed
egg per twelve months thrown at it. Several
years ago, after much work, the temperance crowd
got a Local Option Act; but as it provided for
cash compensation for dispossessed publicans, the
alleged reform was soon discovered to be a sham
of the first degree. Local option polls were held,
usually with fine large results—in fact, the results
at last became so splendid that “ the cause ” was
rapidly being ruined—by prosperity, so to speak.


IS YOUR FARM SECURE?
|| if you die, who will have the Farm ?
Your Family or the Mortgagee ?
An Equitable Endowment will keep the Farm in Your Family.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney
(or Nearest Branch op tiib Society).
Please send me particulars of an Equitable
Endowment.
I ivas born
Name
Address
s%>»i
*
mm
m
m
Wi
V- (Navy Cur.)
CVCRY TIME *
on account of its natural
aromatic flavour#
GALL-AHER UP BELFAST- N? TRUST OR COMBINE
The North Melbourne poll made such a hole in
Bent’s finances that the awful spectacle of a
Premier asking the various publicans to knock a
little off the Compensation Court’s award, as a
discount for cash, was witnessed. This was the
temperance party's low-water mark. A few
months ago a Maoriland temperance apostle
named Judkins shifted to Melbourne, where, by
Eractising the vigorous methods of Seddon, he
as carried fire and sword into the camp of
Bung, and is raising Cain generally. Lemmon,
the secretary of the whisky association, made
one or two attempts to stem the torrent; but the
froth and foam of Judkins have pretty well
smothered him. Judkins said that drink was
causing the death of hundreds of infants every
year, to which Lemmon foolishly and feebly
retorted (according to Judkins) that the infants
were better dead. Lemmon, when last heard of,
was denying bitterly that he ever said such a
thing ; but he is evidently no match for the fiery
Maorilander. J udkins also attacked Bent’s Chief
Secretary, Gillott, for being interested in hotels
while he was the official head of the police ; and
the only reply has been to call Judkins “sus-
picious” and “evil-minded.” Judkins has been
speaking at large all over Melbourne, and pouring
scorn on the Temperance crowd for being so far
behind Maoriland ; and the recent advance in
N.S.W. liquor legislation has given him another
point. So that everything points to a new Licens-
ing Act next session, with a provision for “no
license,” the abolition of barmaids, and the repeal
of the compensation provision. When this Bill
comes on the boards, the antics of Judkins should
be something out of the common ; and if Lemmon
is well-advised he will change his name to
Lemonade, and get a billet as secretary of a Sons
of Temperance lodge.
A Voice from Outside.
An interview on board the s.s. Moeraki with a
Canadian harvester man :
Yes, I’m going- back to Buenos Ayres. I’m representing
a Canadian harvester manufacturer, and I’m bringing
along eighteen Australians with me to fit up machines
and set them working. Australians are thought a great
deal of there, more than Englishmen and Americans, and
lots of them are making a pile of money. You see, we
can’t sell the ordinary machines in Canada ; country is too
wet, and the machines won’t thrash, as wet penetrates
the ears. Buenos Ayres is more like Australia, and the
Australians understand it exactly. And they know their
business. There are four representatives of Australian
firms on board also on the same job. Their agents are
selling a lot of machines, and they do good work. We
get £l4O for a machine down there. It’s a good profit,
but the risks are greater, and the law is so loose that it is
hard to recover without palm-greasing. Feel sorry, but
Australians will let the trade slip away. I sold 50
machines last year. This year I’ve placed 500.
We don’t mind the extra valuation for duty in Aus-
tralia. We know it was pointed at one firm, and we are
satisfied to get £BS for a machine. You Australians don’t
understand patriotism. If we didn’t protect heavily we
would never have got a start. We can’t get a machine
into the States, but they came over and built on our
territory. Still we can hold our own and better. Pro-
tection is strong in Canada. Recently they had a big fire
in Toronto which burnt out the largest undertakers’ fur-
nishers there, and while the place was flooded with
American goods people refused to be buried. This is a
joke, but it’s nearly true. They wouldn’t be planted in
foreign coffins.
We pay big wages and have little or no boy labor.
Cheap labor doesn’t pay, and Americans pay higher than
we do. All our men are specialists, and don’t work as
hard as Australians. The machinery and system make
the work quick, but they don’t age as early as people
seem to think.
Buenos Ayres is the greatest country in the world for
agricultural machinery at present. Knew one agent who
sold 1000 reapers and binders, and 300 thrashing machines
in one year. Australia doesn’t send any. Country is very
corrupt and there are always tinpot revolutions, which
are exaggerated abroad. Just before I came over thirty
men were killed in a melee in my street and they destroyed
the court house ; but it fizzled out. Foreigners keep out of
the way and attend to business. If they took a hand in
politics they could improve things, but what’s the good?
The State doesn’t own any land, it being given away to
military swells. It doubled its value last year. The
country is covered with rank grass which sheep and horses
won’t eat. Used previously to put mares, which the
natives won’t ride, on to it to eat or starve, and they
frequently starved.
p* Most of my men will return to Australia, which is a
great country, and when you cut up the land and know
enough to make your own goods, there will be a boom
that will settle all your troubles right away. I expect to
be back for more men next year. They are just the thing
and it’s only their own country that doesn’t appreciate
them.
In an article on Defence, Melb. Argus tells Aus-
tralia that it is a poor worm, and that it is no use
trying to ever be anything more than a worm :
If the British navy were beaten, Australians could
under no conceivable system of defence hope to hold the
continent against a military power with the sea open to
its transports. . . . Major-General Hutton realised the
folly of talking about preparations against a regular inva-
sion. ... We must eschew, therefore, dreams of an Aus-
tralian navy in our time and of land forces numerous enough
to meet a hostile army such as Britain sent into the South
African republics.
The little S’African republics, with but a
tenth of Australia’s white population or
wealth or resources, put up a good and by
no means despairing fight, for three years, against
the greatest empire on earth ; and it seems safe
to say that, had the Boers possessed a seaboard,
they would have built and maintained a navy (of
their own, not hired) that would have argued the
point considerably with the enemy before he
landed—that is, if their prowess on land is any
criterion. But Australia, the Argus says, is a
caterpillar that must not think of resistance.
Still, after all, it isn’t the first time the Argus
has mistaken itself for Australia.
A league has been formed in Melbourne for the
purpose of boycotting union-labelled goods when
they arrive. But like many other threatened
combinations of the same sort, the league will be
found non-existent when the time comes. The
men who are running it will, owing to the
extent of their operations, be the first to adopt
the label. The man who will really feel the
effects of the Act, and who may be
crushed out of existence by it, is the small,
insignificant sweater who competes
with the big firms, and, while
making a starvation pittance him-
self, employs operatives who have
to supplement their wages by crime
or prostitution to get three meals
a day. This has been the result of
the Yictorian Factories Act. It
has closed up many sweat shops
and really done the decent em-
ployer more good than harm in re-
moving his most serious competi-
tors in the struggle which leads
to the survival of the cheapest.
Most of the Vic. employers are
ready to admit this ; and it is only
the few who used to profit by sell-
ing goods bought from the same
sweat shops who really regret the
passing of the Factories Act.
When the union label comes,
manufacturers will be found tumb-
ling over themselves to get it
attached to their articles, and the
only person who will view it with
genuine alarm will be Fatta Matin
and Abdul Khyhab and the other
sturdy producers of Little Lonsdale-
street.
, 4,
By reason of the reluctance of the
affable Prime Minister Deakin to
use the closure now that he has
got it, things are not as yet
very much improved in the Aus-
tralian Parliament. The stone-
walling, and the interminable monotony of the
“ Squealing Dozen,” and the all-night sittings are
still in evidence. There is something curiously
bald and primitive about the Parliamentary
manoeuvres of Cook. His favorite device is to
offer to. let so many clauses go through in a certain
time—the smallest number of clauses he can ven-
ture to offer in the longest time he thinks he can
suggest without getting his offer thrown back at
his frequently-opened head—and if the Govern-
ment wants more business done he and Kelly
and Johnson will talk to the last gasp and
try to prevent anything at all being done.
His other favorite device, after he and the other
dry obstacles have talked about nothing for a long,
long time, is to offer that, if they are allowed
to continue talking about the same nothing
for two or three days longer—without giving
any guarantee that they will make a single new
remark concerning it—they will then consent to a
division being taken on the nothing. Cook knows
perfectly well that the majority is against him.
He knows that all his speeches won t change a
single vote or turn the majority into a minority.
He knows that in every Democratic country the
majority must rule, even when it isn’t Joe Cook’s
majority. The whole policy of the venomous
ex-coal-trucker is to obstruct, to be disagreeable,
to prevent majority rule, to bring the Parliament
into contempt, and to be a cantankerous outrage
generally. And Deakin is already falling back
into his famous affability, and allowing a free run
to the little gang of verbal interminables.
Melb. Argus suddenly discovered, the other day,
that the minimum-wage provisions of the Vic.
Factories Act were killing the jam-making indus-
try, that there was no local demand for raspberry
pulp, and that the Tasmanian manufacturers were
wiping out the Victorian. As to the demand for
raspberry pulp, the Tory paper seems to think
that these berries ripen all the year round, like
Stinking Fish, rabbits, and other wild fruit; as a
matter of fact, last year’s pulp has all been used
locally or exported long ago ; this year’s should be
on the market in about a month. As to Tas-
mania, some Island jam has a good sale in Mel-
bourne, chiefly because it is made of fruit, instead
of tomatoes, turnips, and various berries ; but that
the Victorian factories are being wiped out by the
operation of the minimum wage law is pure
Ananias. The said law came into operation in
’99, and the Vic. Statist says that the jam factories
employed in
Males. Females.
1899 .. .. 444 .. 166
1900 .. .. 641 .. 309
1904 .. .. 878 .. 602
For an industry that is being killed it seems fairly
vigorous. Even if it were being slaughtered, here
are the minimum wages the Argus suggests
should be reduced in order to save the industry :
Males —Adults 30s. per 48 hours ; 18 years to 21,
175.; 16 to 18, 125.; under 16, 9s. Females over
18, 145.; 16 to 18, 11s. i under 16, 9s.
♦
R. S. Smythe, the Much-Travelled, is the latest
to speak on the S’African horrors, to London
Telegraph
When the coolies were engaged in China it was never
hinted to them that they would have to work under-
ground. They get tired after a week or two, and do not
hesitate to commit some offence, as they prefer being
prisoners above ground to being slaves underground.
When I was at the Cape, about 1500 prisoners had
escaped, and the police were scouring for them in all
directions. To prevent outrages, arms had been served out
to the Boers with permission to shoot the Chinese on sight.
Travelling allowances of 6s. per mile were being paid by the
mineowners to Boers who brought in escaped Chinese. The
coolies imported include a lot of criminals whom the
Chinese authorities are doubtless very glad to get rid of.
The overseers are magistrates and can make almost
anything an offence. . . They are judges as well as execu-
tioners. It is said that prisoners are hung up by the
heels and mercilessly sjamboked. . . The gigantic men
from the north of China act as policemen and often inflict
brutal punishment. Chinese and Kaffirs have always to
be kept in different compounds. . . The special corres-
pondents sent out by the English newspapers will reveal
a state of affairs quite as bad as anything depicted in the
Southern States of America in the slavery days.
♦
Once again a question crops up on N.S.W,
Assembly’s business paper as to the carriage of
the Sydney morning newspapers on the railways.
The amount now paid for the service by the two
proprietaries is £4237 a year. Is it intended to
press Joseph to forego that amount as a matter of
“reform ” ?
WEIGHTY WORDS.
The Federal Hansard for this session already runs into
omething over 6000 pages.— News Item.
AUSTRALIA: " Lemme up!”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Ma.tksty’s “ Leah Kleschna.”
Theatre Royal “ Through the Divorce Court.”
Criterion j “ M “<” “ Patience,” and
*• ( Pirates of Penzance.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Girl from Kay’s.”
Theatre Royal “In Sight of St. Paul’s.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Princes Court Marvellous Mayfield, &c.
That is, assuming Paul got them back from
the young scoundrel, Raoul Berton —who happens
to roll in drunk upon his prospective brother-in-
law, just as Sylvaine is going to show his interest
ing convert to the street-door, and collars the gems
that he sees lying around. But that is one of the
little bye-stories which add to the interest of
“Leah Kleschna”—tantalising little bye-stories
most of them, because the young American play-
wright, C. M. S. M‘Lellan. never finishes them.
You have to guess why Sylvaine’s marriage with
the Berton girl, arranged for a day or two after
the burglary, never took place. Sylvaine merely
explains that he was jilted. From the brief
glimpse one gets of the Berton girl, one is inclined
to think that the jewels were not returned
promptly, at any rate. She looks the kind of
girl who would rather marry a cabinet of old
family jewels than a mild philanthropist any
afternoon.
* * + *
Played for the first time in Australia at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday night, “Leah
Kleschna ’ ’ is excellent melodrama. Melodrama
it is essentially, and when you see it you
find how good melodrama can be and generally
isn’t. But just because it aims . higher than
most, it is inclined to be a bit heavy
during a couple of the five acts. Paul
Sylvaine’s theories are so startling that the
playwright evidently felt he had to let the theorist
do a good deal of rather prosy talking in order to
develop his ideas, so that they shouldn’t seem too
absurd and kill the piece with ridicule. And,
unfortunately, the stiff, prosy matter is in the
hands of a stiff, prosy actor like Douglas Gerrard.
From the little he did in “ Sunday,” one hoped
for better things than he didin “Merely Mary
Ann”; and one doesn’t get them. But, apart
from this rather wearisome dialogue,''for which, as
said just now, there is some excuse, “Leah
Kleschna” is deeply interesting, and holds at
least two tensely dramatic situations —the meeting
between Sylvaine and his uninvited guest, and the
subsequent meeting between the girl and her
father, when she announces that the old life is no
longer possible. The latter is the only point at
which Roy Redgrave’s very fine character study of
old Kleschna seems weak. A strong character
is Kleschna, as noted for some remarkable acts of
bravery as for his remarkable acts of burglary.
Old Flambeau, of “L’Aiglon,” gave Redgrave
many hints in the new part, and the two must be
coupled and put in the front row. Only when he
ceases for a few moments to be the cool, plotting
thief-manager, and is a father hit hard by the
thought of losing a daughter whom, in his curious
way, he loves, does Redgrave strike a false note. As
for Leah, Miss Brune’s uneven work rises as high as
any she has done, and in a few flashes even higher
(the last stormy scene with her father is conspicu-
ous). One can’t, however, believe that the scene
with the despicable cad, Raoul Berton (Gaston
Mervale), is managed to the end as Leah would
have managed it. Albert Gran’s Berton pere is
better than passable—his make-up deserves a line
to itself. Atholwood, in the Gecko-like character
of Schram, plays an extremely difficult minor part
with all this actor’s consistent attention to detail,
and Oily Deering adds a fleeting touch of low
comedy to the final act, which is seemingly
dragged in because melodrama prescribes a wed-
ding as the reward of all virtue. Add that “Leah
Kleschna” is finely mounted (artist John Gordon
received the rare honor of a double call on Satur-
day when the fifth-act setting was unfolded), that
every “curtain” leaves a striking situation to
supply food for interval-talk, and you have the
story of a sterling success.
** * *
“Princess Ida,” revived at Sydney Cri-
terion after so long an interval that it is now a
novelty to most playgoers, is in the earlier manner
of Gilbert and Sullivan. It has not the same fan-
tastic originality of idea t.s later pieces, nor so
much wit. Only here and there does the whim-
sical topsy-turvydom of Gilbert’s mind peep out.
But nevertheless the fun is etched in with bold,
free lines and prompts perhaps more hearty laughter
than some of the more ingenious quips of “The
Mikado” or “lolanthe.” “Princess Ida” shows
the transition stage between opera bouffe and that
highly original school of comic opera which is
associated with the names of Gilbert and Sullivan,
and which no one but Gilbert seemed able to
devise, for the “Rose of Persia” was a solitary
effort, and the man who wrote it produced nothing
more of its kind. “ Princess Ida” calls for much
more gorgeous mounting than the partnership’s
later efforts, and J. O. Williamson has done it
full justice, the scenery being exquisite, and the
dresses brilliant, while the armor shines like a
new moon or a boom in silver shares.
* * * *
Standing out from a performance which
is, on the whole, open to very little criticism, are
the dainty acting and singing of Miss Aggie
Thorne, who enters thoroughly into the spirit of-
this class of work; the equally attractive pour-
trayal of Lady Psyche by Miss Yinia De Loitte ;
and the fine rendering of the Bacchic tenor num-
ber “Kiss Me” by Kenningham. Obviously so
as to give the best effect to this number, Kenning-
ham takes the subordinate part of Cyril, and he
sings and acts the winey rhapsody with artistic
abandon. Miss Dolly Castles has a very difficult
r6le as Princess Ida; it calls for very high
singing and acting ability, and the little
lady is somewhat overweighted in a part
which even taxed Miss Nellie Stewart’s powers
in her best days though as Nellie Stewart’s
days have all been best days, or very nearly so.
this way of putting it may seem invidious. Miss
Celia Ghiloni is an impressive Lady Blanche, and
the work of Frank Wilson and Ernest Fitts is also
commendable. Other principals are fair to mid-
dling, and the chorus and orchestra, as usual, are
excellent. For the concluding week of the season
there will be a series of revivals, “The Mikado,”
“ Patience,” and “ The Pirates of Penzance.”
** * *
“Through the Divorce Court,” staged at
Sydney Royal on Saturday, is a rather sane and
reasonable melodrama, as melodramas go, with a
strong story carried out on robust lines. The
heroine, Dolores, has a natural brother (she is a
“LEAH KLESCHNA.”
“ In a matter of business the thing to do
Is to grit your teeth and see it through.
There isn’t spare room for sentiment
In the heart of man on business bent.
Dream no dreams, be sparing of speech,
And take whatever your hands can reach.”
This was the lesson that Kleschna taught
To Leah his daughter—who set it at nought.
His motherless daughter (the good) had died ;
Now Leah was daughter and pupil beside.
She could “crack a crib” with the best in the
trade—•
Swift to think and do was the Kleschna maid.
Paul Sylvaine, of the Deputies,
Pondered on things in his home of ease.
Deep, he said, in the heart of man
Clear and pure the waters ran.
Foul though the surface, yet underneath
Was a Soul unscathed in its battered sheath.
The time shall come, he said in his glee,
When never a prison in France need be ;
When all who live in the dark of night
Shall open their eyes and see the light;
When the gentle touch shall make men whole,
And the scum shall be skimmed from every soul.
Sylvaine is rich, and his jewels rare
To-morrow shall pass to his bride most fair—
Diamonds and rubies and pearls which invite
Kleschna and Leah to work to-night...
A step and a stir, and face to face
The soul-physician has met a “ case.”
Give the doctor his due; he wasn’t dismayed
As he set to work on the Soul of the maid.
“Be seated,” he said. The thief was a-stare,
As he asked her the why, and the when and where.
And he found, ’neath the vice she wore as a hood,
A soul unscathed, and the seed of good.
“ A thief came seeking for gems,” she said ;
“ She found the light of her life instead.
A thief crept in by the casement door ;
A woman walks out who will rob no more.
The weeds by the hand of man were sown ;
Now the seed of truth shall spring alone.
“ Back I go to the fields of my youth,
Where a simple people live lives of truth.
Coarse the work that my hands shall do ;
But —Kleschna’s daughter will see it through.”
Messieurs, Madame Sylvaine ! Yes, she’s married
her Paul,
So the Sylvaine jewels are hers, after all.


CITY •
Positions
secured by Postal [1
Tuition in Business
Subjects.
‘Horiie Study ’ Post Free.
Stott & Hoare’s Busi-
ness College, Sydne'
Spaniard, and her erring ma was a Spaniard;
English mamas don’t do that sort of thing in
English melodrama), and when she has married a
haughty English lord, that brother starts to lurk
round. He is prompted to lurk by the heavy
Spanish villain, who wanted to marry Dolores
before she was called to the lord, and as a reward of
lurking the brother gets many a cheque. So he
lurks with perseverance, and enables the villain
to represent to the husband that he is Dolores
lover. The result is a divorce suit, during which,
for the first time, the lady lets it be known that
mama erred, and that the co-re. is her illegitimate
brother ; but as the brother doesn’t turn up to ex-
plain, and the villain laughs withametallic “ha ha”
as he conceals all the proofs, including the register
of birth-marks and the certificate that ma and pa
were not married, virtue is downcast in the dust,
and virtue’s innocent che-ild is dragged from her
arms, and wickedness gloats. Until close to
curtain fall, in accordance with immemorial tradi-
tion, wickedness goes on gloating industriously;
then, on Christmas Eve, with the snow crowning
the battlements of Ballyboodle Towers, the che-ild
lisps that she wants Santa Claus to bring back
mama as a Christmas gift for her stocking, and
mama promptly arrives with the proofs of her
innocence. The decree nisi has been made
absolute, and lady and lord are as effectively
unmarried as could be, but melodrama is too unso-
phisticated to notice trifles of that sor t and domestic
happiness is restored right there without further
ado. The work of Mr. Anderson’s co. in this
divorce piece is throughout good and even. Miss
Eugenie Duggan gives an effective picture of the
injured wife ; but why a golden wig for a Spanish
part? Miss Guildford, as a lady who is no better
than necessary, is another bright item ; and the
cq. has unearthed another comedian in Temple
Harrison, whose picture of a young English
johnnie is distinctly good. Probably “Through
the Divorce Court ” will occupy the jury until the
Christmas pantomime is reached. For the panto.,
a handsome principal boy and other massive fur-
nishings have been imported.
X* * *
Most interesting of the newcomers at the
Sydney Tivoli is Boy Glen, a youngster with a
voice, and a droll way of using it, and a budget of
good stories which he tells as though he had just
invented them. Arthur Albert, a recently-arrived
descriptive vocalist from the London ’alls, makes
some deplorable remarks as an alleged Australian
digger who is surrounded by a vast wealth of
limelight. Albert, it transpires, has been a bad
lot at ’Ome; but he puts on the top-boots and
riding-pants that every Australian digger wears,
and says he would give all the world if he could
go back ’Ome. And just as he realises the utter
impossibility of it, a boy comes in from the wings
and hands him a brief letter, which rhymes with
the last remarks he had made. Then he gasps
that he is forgiven, and he thanks God that now
he can turn his back on the land where he has
made his pile. The Mephisto triplet—Leroy,
Talma, and Bosco—are still playing weird tricks
with poultry and other things; the Jacksons are
playing on nearly everything, from a violin to a
side-drum ; and the bill is so full of large items
that the girl who generally fills in the first part
with some nasal observations, made in a short
frock, has been crowded out to give room for
something better.
** * *
All the Melbourne theatres are changing
their programmes again. At the Princess’s there
is a brief interregnum of silence, Nellie Stewart
having already concluded five extra grand per-
formances of “ Sweet Nell,” which bore the season
along to Wednesday of this week. A while ago
Melbourne wa@ exhorted to see the last of its
Nellie in her favorite character “perhaps for
ever,” but a managerial advt. is entitled to a lot
of poetic license, and when “The Bishop’s Car-
riage ” began to go very slowly the voice of good
old General Desire cried aloud for a further revival
of the Ellen who sold oranges in Drury Lane. All
things considered, it was better for the departing
actress to farewell in King Charles’s palace than
to say a few words to the audience subsequent to
her Pot and Pipkin fable in the other drama.
Melbourne would have been sorry to identify her
with a Pipkin in the hour of her send-off.
** * *
An amateur production of “Rip Van
Winkle” was to have happened at the Princess’s
next Saturday (9th), but the arrangement appears
to be “off.”
*■ * * *
The last nights of “Veronique” have
come with an unexpected rush at Her Majesty’s
(Melbourne), and the admirers of that charming
novelty are lamenting its present inability to
score a big success. The duty of catching on to
“ Veronique ” at the outset, and holding on for a
long period, will presently devolve upon the
Sydney public. Melbourne is letting it go in the
fourth week. For the last fortnight of the season
“The Girl from Kay’s” will be staged, with
Lauri as Hoggenheimer, and the full-toned
songstresses of J.C.W.’sCo. in the places of the
Geo. Edwardes Co’s ladies, whose tones fell short
of ordinary Australian requirements.
”** * »
Bland Holt likewise is changing the bill on
Saturday. “ With Flying Colors,” one of the best
dramas in Bland's valuable stock, would probably
be more popular under another title. The present
title suggests battle scenes, and repels a vast
number of people who have wearied of the Flag
and lost their appetite for Rule Britannia. It is
a misleading title, but the persons who don’t
trouble to discover their mistake are not blameable
in this matter. If the drama were called “The
Tune of Death ” it might run for three months,
and the appellation would be fully,. accounted for,
seeing that the first man who dies in the drama is
shot down whilst pounding away at a piano. “In
Sight of St. Paul’s” will return to notice on
Saturday.
*** * -
At the Opera House a happy amphitheatre
sang its familiar hymn to the Bull who went down
to a Bush last time the present scribe looked in.
Florence Challis was reappearing ; also several
other “turns,” some of them undoubtedly good,
but none of them proudly pre-eminent. The Oor-
ricks, described as “Marvellous,” have ceased to
bid for amazement at the Athenaeum Hall,
where the Aquarium continues to show how
English trout are hatched, and the attendance at
Princes Court is eminently satisfactory. There is
a marvellous person at the Court who slides
through space by his teeth and closes his career
every evening in the Chute Lake.
THE ENGLISH UNEMPLOYED PROBLEM.
Replying to a deputation representing the London unemployed, the Prime Minister gave his reasons for re-
fusing State aid and for not summoning a winter session of Parliament. One of Mr. Balfour’s arguments was
that State aid was calculated to destroy the enterprise of capitalists and the energy and fibre of the workmen.—
Cable.
THE PROBLEM (who has pawned his last shirt): “Sate us, we're starving!"
PRIME MINISTER BALFOUR: “No, no—I could not think of destroying the energy and fibre
of the nation.”
Charles Holloway has closed up at
Adelaide Royal with “The Shadows of a Great
City,” and moved on —to Sydney, it is said. Yet
another local young musical genius has been fare-
welled at the Town Hall—Miss Maud Puddy.
She also moves on—to Europe. There has been
a casual mandolin concert; and now a dull depres-
sion has settled down, like the pall of death
covering the remains of yesterday’s lunch.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Clubb ” : The comedy, “In the Bishop’s Carriage,” is
an example of the way an author and a few well-dressed
actors can pull the moral leg of an audience. Right
through the play the sympathy of the house is levelled
on Latimer, the gentlemanly golfing person who reclaims
Nance from her burglarious surroundings and makes her
an honest woman, while Dorgan, Nance’s former lover, is
made to appear the villain of the piece. _ Yet, of the two,
Dorian is far and away the more admirable character.
He is a burglar, but a burglar of qkill, daring, and, within
the limits of his profession, honor. He saved Nance from a
blackguard who was tempting her to a life of diamonds and
champagne, forebore to take advantage of her gratitude
himself, found her a poor thief and made her a smart one ;
and, when the time came, loved her so deeply that he
killed a warder to break gaol and see her. Latimer, on
the other hand, starts by jilting the girl he was engaged
to. He professes to take up Nance for reclamation pur-
poses, but shows the hollowness of his professions by send-
in<>- Dorgan to gaol for seven years at the same instant,
though Dorgan is just as fit a subject for his missionary
zeal as Nance. An audience, whose sense of honor was
not distorted by the sophistry of the author and the neat-
fitting trousers of Latimer, would, have hooted the golfing
lingerer and wept over the picture of Nance in Latimer’s
arms for the tragedy it was.
It is something to blow hard and long into a brass tube.
The Boulder City (W.A.) brass band, which recently won
a competition at Ballarat, went home to be met at the
station by the Kalgoorlie brass band, which played “ See
the Conquering Hero Comes.” The mayor and councillors
bouoht the deafeners beer and sandwiches, and then took
them on a special tramcar to Boulder, where more beer
and German sausage were provided. Australia has an
eccentric sense of what deserves praise. When a man
manufactures things he is sentenced to contumely, and
when he splits the peaceful firmament with the heathenish
blare of a big shiny trumpet the Mayor of the City takes
him on a special car to the free beer.
“Alix” : Can anyone tell me what constitutes a com-
plimentary concert? Always thought it was an affair
arrano-ed by a fellow’s friends and admirers and enthusi-
astic fellow'citizens on his departure for somewhere, and
that he had nothing to do but gather in the shekels when
it was all over. But t’other day I had a letter from a pal
who is going to the Cold, Boggy-Smoke to study. He
asked me to make an ornamental noise at his compli-
mentary concert and dispose of 27 tickets. As everybody
I know also has 27 tickets to sell, it seems I have been let
in for something. Still this is not so bad a case as one I
knew of, when a very well-dressed young gentleman was
arrested at his own farewell banquet, paid for by himself.
He would have been away a fortnight before the discovery
of the shortage in his cash if he hadn’t waited to organise
his own farewell. He was just responding to his own
health, when he was torn from the infested board, and he
got two years.
“ Melb.” : Nellie Stewart trundles on every night in
the pair-horse “ Bishop’s Carriage.” It’s not Archbishop
Clarke’s carriage, nor Archbishop Carr’s excellent pair-
horse equipage. The other night, at the Diocesan Festival
in the Town Hall, there were lantern views. One of the
Archbishop’s carriage was shown. Archbishop Clarke
afterwards said, “ Mind, that is only a carriage lent by a
friend. I have none.” Whereupon churchmen are
querying querulously : “ Why has he none ? Do we give
an archbishop £4O a week to go without a carriage ? Is
he generously expending the money in charity, or only
hoarding it up ? Anyway, we object. Let the prelate
keep up his dignity, and ours.”
“Wyoming”: “If, as “J.A.C.” writes (B. 23/11/05),
Duse played Juliet when 14 years of age and Marion
Dunn when 144, then they, probably, are the only
actresses whose years have approximated those of the
heroine. Shakspeare fixes Juliet’s age, as per the nurse
(act !., scene III.), at 14 or a little under: ‘ Come
Lammas-eve at night, shall she be fourteen. Lingi del
Porta from whose romance Shakspeare wrote his play,
says J uliet was approaching 18. It has become a stage
tradition that no actress can play Juliet until she is too
old to look the part. Hence Shakspeare’s lines are
altered to approach somewhere near the performer’s
apparent age. In the Brune version Juliet is represented
as being 18. Janet Waldorf, am incomparably better
Juliet than Tittell Brune, also made the age 18. I forget
what age the Brown-Potter adopted.
E. W. Mackney, one of the earliest fathers of nigger
minstrelsy in Britain, has been getting into print again
conCernm"- the London stage as he knew it sixty-eight
years it«o. These reminders of the virility of old has-
beens, suctf as Mackney, go to explain why the antique
artists wer© great institutions in their daj. Mackney
merely blacked his face, twanged a banjo and sang in a
commonplace! voice stuff that would be reckoned intoler-
ably soft and silly if anyone tried to revive it now. But
the singer, in his prime, had another fifty years of life in
him. He was a man of force, imparting his uncommon
personality to his doggerel ditties. Mackney, too, had a
new axiom to assert, and when he threw it off his chest it
struck everybody. “ We’re all bound to go the whole
hog or none,” was Mackney’s contribution to the world s
wisdom.
Hall Caine is evidently an earnest student of the adver-
tising methods of Dan Barry. He has been inviting
clergymen to drop in at Old Drury and see that great
moral drama, “The Prodigal Son,” just as Daniel has
done for years whenever he staged “ The Parson s Cuss-
or “ The Pew-Opener’s Malediction.” Dan is too modest,
though, to claim all the glory of authorship as ’All does.
His religious plays are usually written, according to the
advertisements, in collaboration with some such eminent
divine as the late lamented Spurgeon or ’Lije Dowie.
“Stunt” is the American term for such parts of classic
drama as the “seven ages” speech and Mercutio’s
“ Oueen Mab ” description, which most actors and
audiences seem to think should be given as a sort of bas-
relief on the general flat surface of a play. It is related of
one actor-manager playing Romeo that he couldn t bear
to let Mercutio have the Queen Mab stunt. He
annexed it himself, making some slight changes.
•Representatives of the Yankee commercial spirit have
lately been imploring the American public to ‘ Drop a
nickel in the slot and hear the ravings of John M Cul-
louah ” Trao-edian M’Cullough lost his reason a few
vears’before his death, and those who patronise the
phonograph are regaled with broken scraps from his
parts interspersed with a “dreadful laugh, half-insane,
half idiotic ” It is not known whether the unspeakable
sensation-vendor induced M’Cullough or an imitator to
rave into the phonograph, but the actor’s disgusted
friends admit that the instrument gives a lifelike repro-
duction of his rambling utterances, and are aching for an
opportunity to lock the phonograph man in a room with
a few dozen lunatics.
Verdi’s tuneful old operas, with their luridly tragic
stories and orchestration to match, continue to hold their
popularity beside the works of the French and modern
Italian schools. The programme for the first week of the
present season at Covent Garden (London) was “La
Boheme,” “ Un Ballo in Maschera,” “ La Boheme ” again,
“II Trovatore,” “ Manon Lescaut,” and “La Tosca.” The
birth dates of the Verdi operas, “ II Trovatore ” and “ IJn
Ballo,” are 1853 and 1858, and the libretto in both cases is
of the “ penny dreadful ” order. But the melodies !
A wholly unexpected hit was made with an amateur
dramatic performance in a Victorian provincial town
somewhat recently. A young man and a young
woman sat in a conspicuous place in the stalls. Every
time the tall, picturesque hero on the stage embraced the
small, pert heroine, the young man in the front stalls
embraced the girl alongside him and kissed her with a
noise like the report of a Royal Commission. Some
people recognised the young man in the stalls as the
husband of the pert heroine on the boards, and imparted
their information to their neighbors with the result that
the whole audience learned the facts, and the manner in
which the pair in the stalls went two better thari the
couple on the stage provoked thunders of and
took all the stiffening out of the drama. The pert
heroine broke down in the most, affecting love scene in
the third act as a consequence of the nefarious goings-on
of her husband. The latter, it seems, strongly objected
to his wife’s weakness for amateur acting, and this was
his protest.
Some of the Australian singing crowd who have adopted
the names of their native places for platform purposes in
England are beginningto see that the practice isnotagood
one, and there is talk of the fantastic nomenclature being
dropped by at least one of the number. England has
seen among others, Melba, S.vdna, Ballara, Benda, D’Argo,
Yarra, and Bathurst (Patrick’s right name is Kenna).
There were, of course, heaps of places still to be selected
for musical celebrity. “ Croajinga” would have been ex-
cellent, but it would have been run hard by “ War-
rackna” and “ Upotipotpa.” Also YVooHoomoola would
have supplied a deficiency, and Signorina Lilly Bucka
should have raked in plenty of engagements. It is really
a pity that the demand for such names has run out, for
the supply is practically unlimited.
Mux,sky's tells of Nat Goodwin and Maxine Elliot, that
Nat had completed all his arrangements in ’Frisco for
Australia, with Blanche Walsh as leading lady. Then
Maxine came along, and he fell madly in love with her.
He was willing to pay the expenses of two leading ladies,
but Maxine was under professional engagement to
Frawley. Frawley was persuaded to allow Maxine to
follow Goodwin to Australia in one month, Nat promising
in return to appear for him when he came hack, and
making him a present of the right to play “A Gold
Mine.”
A Sarah Bernhardtism : “Mon cher, did you hear?
I asked my son Maurice to escort me to the theatre this
evening. Oh ! the dear hoy’s face 1.. . ‘ Mother ! —I in
the street with an actress ! What would my friends
think ? ’ Did you ever hear anything so droll ? ”
Sandow, strong man and showman, recently returned
to England after an eighteen months’ sojourn in various
corners of the universe. A London interviewer was made
the receptacle of a stiff yarn about a gluttonous Parsee
Grcesus who was reputed to eat and drink enough daily to
supply a small zoo, and, as a consequence, developed
elephantiasis to an alarming extent. European doctors
failed to effect a cure, but the modern Samson brought
him down to normal in six months, and received a fee of
£lO,OOO and princely trimmings in the shape of yachts,
carriages, motor-cars, and such like. An offer to remain
and continue the good work for three years longer for
£30,000 was refused. And thereupon the digestive organs
of the interviewer’s readers promptly refused to act—
allee same the Parsee gent.
“L.”: Nellie Stewart told an Argus interviewer that
her intention of making a few farewell appearances in
Melbourne in comic opera had to be abandoned because
“ there were no people we could find capable of filling
the parts.” Then Manag'er Musgrove let loose a “good
old times” lament: “That’s what’s wrong with comic
opera now. It isn’t that there are no more Gilbert and
Sullivan pieces ; the trouble is that there are no people to
produce them if they were written. There’s not a comic
opera prima donna in the English-speaking world—a
woman who possesses the personal charm and vivacity
that’s necessary.” If the last statement is anywhere
near correctness (which is open to considerable doubt), is
it not dearth of demand that causes the small supply ?
Mr. Musgrove has not given much encouragement to
comic opera recently. Surely he did not expect a" full
company of qualified actors to be waiting on the door-
mat till he was ready to vouchsafe them a three nights’
engagement. Considering how short a time it has been
founded, the Williamson Gilbert and Sullivan , Co. has
been wonderfully well supplied with capable Australian
girls, several of whom need only time and opportunity to
develop all the qualities mentioned.
“ Cockaigne ” : This year’s may be the last pantomime
at London’s Drury Lane. There were even doubts about
producing it. Last year’s realised the poorest dividend
known. This was attributed to the bad book, and
Burnand writes up “ Cinderella ” this Christmas. How-
ever, it is only galvanising a habit that used to be
bursting with joyous life, when all the West End houses
had their pantos.
Nellie Stewart does not expect to act again in Australia
after this farewell. She hopes that “ Sweet Nell of Old
Drury ” will secure a two or three years’ run in America.
Strange to say, it has never been acted there, though
written by an American. Miss Stewart has never acted in
America since 1 1880, when she was there with the “ Rain-
bow Revels.” She was through America in the St. Louis
Exposition year. Musgrove takes 70 tons of parapher-
nalia. The opening is at the Majestic Theatre, in San
Francisco. f
“ Dip ” : Touching “ Melb.’s ” recent remark about the
fearful originality of the phrase “Unhand me villain ! ” I
suggest tp the bellowdramatists tOTelieve the tension
with the occasional variant “ Lemme go beast!”
Gilbert’s Pooh-Bah was anticipated by Baron Factotum,
a character in Planches burlesque, “ The- Sleeping
Beauty ” (1840). Factotum, who is Great-Grand-Lord-
Everything, soliloqiiises thus :
I shall go crazy. Ye who sigh for place,
Behold and profit by my piteous case.
As Lord High Chamberlain I slumber never;
As Lord High Steward in a stew I’m ever !
As Lord Hig h Constable I watch all day ;
As Lord High Treasurer I have the deuce to pay ;
As Great Grand Cupbearer I’m handled queerly ;
As Great Grand Carver I’m cut up severely.
Iq other States the honors are divided,
But here they’re one and all to me confided.
They’ve buckled Fortune on my back—until
I really feel particularly ill !
Young' man, avoid the cares from State that spring',
And don’t you be a Great Grand anything 1
Another Pooh-Bah ieature occurs in A. C. Benson’s recent
life of “Omar” Fitz Gerald. If Fitz Gerald by chance
spoke sharply to the lad employed to read to him, he
would apologise or offer him a money present, which he
called “ insulting the boy in a pecuniary way.”
Some years ago mummer Marius, who was in Australia
vrith Mrs. Bernard Beere’s Co., was giving evidence in an
English court. “What are you?” he was asked. “An
actor,” he replied. Someone in the body of the court
promptly shouted “ Perjury 1 ’’
“ Kodak ” : Sometimes I go to a students’ concert and
sit on a hard chair. The hall is filled with 2000 women and
several men. The ushers get through their work quickly
—they know what is coming. Women rush in holding on
th ir clothes and towing men—men who’ve been drugged
and bullied and threatened and shadowed for days. When
everyone is seated —on the hard chairs—the orchestra
plays something descriptive of ghosts dancing in a fog, in
order to tone things up a bit and give the girls who are
going to tackle arias time to straighten their fringes.
After the orchestra has finished there is a pause. Then
a girl in evening dress zig-zags through the chairs and
bows frigidly to the people, who applaud wildly
why, Lord only knows! The girl’s accomplice
the pianiste—hurries on to the platform, plumps
down on the stool, and has a word or two with
the piano. A bald-headed man stands by with a flute.
General dead silence. Then the pianiste strokes the key-
board for its whole length twice, like a wrestler feeling
for a hold, which she eventually finds somewhere near its
waist. There is a fierce interchange, in the middle of
which the bass distinctly says ‘“Damn!” The
accompaniste sits up straight and drops her hand. The
lady standing up, gazes at the roof as if imploring mercy
and says “ ’Tis the lark ! ’Tis the lark ! ’Tis the Wow-Wow-
(Foie-Wow !! ” The bald-headed man performs a libel on
the lark. Again the singing woman asserts. “ Yes, yes, I
know ’tis the IFoio-Wow-WOW !” The flautist upends
his instrument in a thirsty way, and the pianiste
hits the piano below the belt when it isn’t looking.
Above the riot the singer tells the bald-headed
one—“Oh, yes, tiiou art the Wow! I know—l know
the Wow-Wow-Wow. Oh-h yes ! ” The bald one
tootles some doubts. “Oh, yes, the Wow thou art!”
(Evidently she knoics the Wow and the sort of noise it
makes when it’s bothered.) Then the plot develops—
accusations and denials —with the piano raging in the
background, and eventually the man with the flute gives
in and retires convicted of being either the Lark or the
Wow. When the applause has subsided (everything is
applauded) another girl sings a frantic aria with great
expression. It is jn Cherokee, and nobody understands
it or knows what she is talking about. There is,
however, a great quantity of “Wo.v ” in it, and as a
Cherokee screech is just as intelligible as an English one,
she gets an ovation after her final “ Wow,” and is per-
suaded to come back and do the most excited part all
over again. Most of the high-class arias are nothing but
slices of tombstoney music separating isolated yelps of
“ Wow ! ’’—that is in the slow, impressive parts, when the
policeman is supposed to be walking round the tote. In
the frantic parts it is merely an otherwise nice girl glaring
wildly at the Girls of the Old Brigade while she howls
something that sounds like “ Gerfushen !—gerfushen !
What-o ! tut-tut! Wow —wow !! ” If I had a passion for
sitting on hard chairs and hearing women calling out
“ Wow ! ” I would go oftener than I do to the students’
concerts.
The anti-Home Rule petition, prepared by
the Orange lodges in Melbourne, is being largely
signed by knickerbockered infants, dragged in by
their masters and pastors to help on the bad cause
with a labored and smudgy autograph. This al-
ways happens when religious bodies start on pe-
tition work. It is regarded as good work to shove,
a pen into the bhubby fist of the newest baby and
let its father scrawl its name to the tail of a
lengthy piece of paper, and pass the thing off as
the mature opinion of an adult voter. When
carefully scrutinised, the sense of honor possessed
by the average religious body in political matters
seems several shades below that of the gentleman
who operates with three peas at the pony races.
The sum of £5OO a year each has been
voted by N.S.W. Assembly to the families of the
late Frederick Bridges and Alexander Oliver.
The reason assigned was that each deceased had
rendered long and faithful service to the State.
Yet the idea of rewarding similar services in the
cases of poorly paid public servants never occurs
to Parliament. If Alexander Oliver as a Land
Appeal Court Judge on £2OOO a year, and F.
Bridges as Under-Secretary at £lOOO, could not
leave their descendants well enough off to save
them accepting charity from the State, what
chance has, say, the public school teacher who,
after 30 years’ service, is rewarded with about £4
a week ?
The Australian National Defence League
meeting, held in Melbourne, showed the same
pathetic lack of enthusiasm which characterises
all defence proposals in Australia. The audience
numbered only about 700, and although Prime
Minister Deakin was beautifully eloquent, he said
nothing. He didn’t commit himself or his Go-
vernment, directly or indirectly, to constructing a
fleet, however small, to adopting any definite
system to furnish a really good ..military defence,
to setting up an arms and ammunition factory,
to building the transcontinental railways which
we must have if the outlying parts of the country
are to be made defensible, to an immigration
scheme in order to supply the country with more
defenders ; in fact, he skimmed gracefully over
everything—just like a yacht. Then he had a
lovely peroration j ust like a red and gold sunset —
even among the summer hats in David Jones’s
window there is nothing more lovely or more
nicely trimmed than that peroration—and after
that Deakin sat down beautifully. Then State
Premier Bent rose and said gruffly, among other
things, that he had been, a sergeant once. Bent
seems to have been everything once.
The trial of Lionel Terry for killing one
Chinaman, Joe Kum Yung, in the interests of
racial purity at Wellington.(M.L.), lasted only one
hour, but during that time the tall ex-cavalryman,
faultlessly dressed, dignified in bearing, and
speaking with easy fluency, made a lot of people
about the court feel decidedly uncomfortable.
He mentioned that the ideas of Asiatics on the
subject of giving evidence in court supplied only one
of many reasons why they should be excluded
from the country. He pointed to the presence of
a Jew Crown prosecutor and other Hebrew officials
about the court as proof of the necessity for
taking drastic steps to rouse the people to
a perception of what a hold the Asiatic was getting
on the country. The Jew and the Chinaman, he
argued, were both Asiatics, and should both be ex-
cluded as undesirable. And the Crown Prosecutor
and other Hebrew officials felt glad that Terry met
Joe Kum Yung first that particular Sunday
evening. Also, judging by the nature ,of the
correspondence in the papers for a few days
following the trial, it became evident that Terry’s
remarks about the Jews had soaked into quite s.
lot of people. It really looks as though it would
be necessary for a proportion of the Jews in each
community to devote themselves to hod-carrying
and road-mending, just to supply the race with a
scrap of reputation for genuine hard work.
The one item knocked right off the N.S.W.
estimates th'is year was the £525 for members of
the Public Service Tender Board. This item has
a history. A few years ago the tender business
was placed under the supervision of a Board con-
sisting of the most highly-paid officers of the Public
Service. These people sat during office hours,
and each time they met they were paid £1 Is. An
amazed Assembly spoke to Premier See about it,
and the item only passed that year on the under-
standing that thereafter each member was limited
to £5O a year and must earn the money after office
hours. Ever since then the Board has met at
4.31 p.m., it never being convenient to meet
during business hours (when there was no fee).
This year Carruthers refused to justify the vote,
and left the Chamber to show that he washed his
hands of all responsibility. So the item was fired
out. Hereafter the Tender Board will find time
to meet inside office hours or bust.


To Those afflicted with Sore Eves
Dimness of Sight, Weak Eyes, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids.,
HAVE YOU TBTFn -
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
The This marvellous preparation is an absolute specific
bandy Blight, and is now in general use throughout Australasia as
THE NATIONAL EYE REMEDY.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Continent.
If not able to obtain locally send a postal note for 1/9 to the
Sole Proprietors, H. A. ROSE & CO., 531 George St., Sydney.
!W* BEWARE OF THE MAN WHO HAS SOMETHING JUST AS GOOD. TOT
1 n 1 a —ll 1 r 1
BRATS
PP /
(6ESET.-KJ
EXQUISITE MODELS, j* PERFECT FIT.
J GUARANTEED WEAR.
THE NF.W
P. D.
... CORSETS
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATION*
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside,
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.
Society
“ Ed.” : On the Broadineadows (Vic.)
plains all the trunks of the trees lean to the north,
the sweeping . south winds bending them in that
direction ; they are to a great extent sheltered by
the Dividing Range from the full force of the
north winds. On this bleak, wind-swept, low-
hyinf? plain Bent has established his sanatorium
for consumptives. During the summer the sick
ones will be parched and frizzled like peas in a
pan ; during the winter there will not be a corner
where one can get out of the ever-howling gale.
* * * *
The motor-car is one more boon to the
medical profession ; in fact, two more boons. It
enables the prosperous, expensive doctor to cover
more ground and make a greater number of calls
than he could make in his discarded kerndge.
And'then there are the splendid cases that it
creates. The other day, in one of Australia’s
largest cities, a motor ran over an elderly man
and damaged him pretty severely. The catas-
trophe happened near the brass plate of a well-
known surgeon, who promptly came upon the
scene and ordered the victim to be taken into liis
private hospital. The man didn’t die—he was
able to return home in a week. But the motorist
had a “funeral.” His carelessness cost him £GS in
compensation to the damaged one, £5O for the
surgeon’s fee, and a big sum for board, lodging
and nursing at the private hospital.
A measure now in preparation will give
the Sydney City Council large powers to obliterate
its slums. It is proposed to begin by wiping out
the awful regions of Wexford-street and Athlone-
place—the latter a mud-hole which has 4ft. of
water in it when there is a little more rain than
usual. A great new street is to run from Darling-
hurst to Owe’Sullivan’s fresh and unpaid-for rail-
way station, and after this work is done Woolloo-
mooloo is to be torn up by the roots and re-
modelled. These are wise proceedings, but while
the public is glad to hear of them it badly wants
some more information. Are the owners of the
compulsorily-resumed properties to be paid the
ordinary valuation, with 10 per cent, added as
usual for disturbance —10 per cent, for being so
dirty and so much of a public evil that it
is necessary to shift them at public expense
for the health of the community ? In The
opinion the law should rather lay it
down that the owners of such places should only
get half the assessed, values of their rookeries ; it
believes in 50 per cent, fine for being a premedi-
tated disease—not 10 per cent. bonus. Otherwise
the new powers sought by the Council will pro-
bably tend to make owners who are already dis-
reputable try if they can’t, by a little extra dirt
and a little less paint and repair, become just
dirty enough to be resumed at 10 per cent, above
their value. When a slum is so near the limit at
which it gets 10 per cent, added to its price, that
a few more Chinamen and broken railings will do
the trick, there will be a great tendency to get
them. If the slum were instead approaching the
limit at which it might any day be confiscated at
half its value there might rather be a feverish
tendency to clean up.
* * * »
Apropos of Sydney’s proposed new public
library. Could some one find out what was the
area of the space available to the public in Sydney
Domain when it was at its largest, in what year it
was at its largest, and how much has been gnawed
off since the process of diminution set in. It is
such an easy thing for the tired Treasurer, who
can’t be troubled finding the money for a site for
some new public building, just to “ put it in the
Domain,” that a very steady gnawing process goes
on almost unnoticed.
* * *
A new significance is given to the recent
decision of the Melbourne Queen Victoria statue
authorities to use imported instead of Australian
marble, by the discovery that the Carrara quarries
in Italy are owned by an enterprising Yankee,
who also controls the only quarries for statuary
marble in the United States —thus cornering the
market m the commodity. Considering that Aus-
tralia has dozens of likely spots for fine-grained
marbles of apparently lasting qualities—Caloola is
the best known, but Bulumwaal (Gippsland) is
just as promising—it would appear that Australia
should not only provide marble enough for its
own statues and higher-class buildings, but should
be able to create a big export trade in white
“ gibber.”
An Image of Buddha, recently discovered in
Thibet. (Note the remarkable resemblance of the
face to that of Justice G. B. Simpson, of N.S.W.)
From “ Hedin's Central Asia and Thibet,” p. 125.
The dangerousness of the average Melb.
policeman is so small that the criminal disregards
it altogether. This contempt for the bobby
became so marked some years ago that it was pro-
posed to arm him with a revolver, and now every
constable carries a “ gun.” No provision has ever
been made for teaching him to use the “ gun.” A
couple of months ago an excited policeman pulled
out his howitzer in the lanes round Little Lons-
dale-street, and poured lead after a runaway
assault-and-robbery man, whose health remained
quite unimpaired. Week before last another
“cop,” after a fierce encounter with three un-
armed burglars, rose from behind a heap of stones
over which he had tripped, and emptied his can-
non at the group. The range was short, but again
the offenders departed in good health and spirits.
Some of the police couldn’t shoot Fink’s Build-
ings at ten yards.
TWO GOOD REASONS.
PATER FAMILIAS : “I think you are still very young to ask for the hand of my daughter .”
SUITOR : “ That may he, sir, hut I am bald, and I have rheumatism.”
Bendigo has, in proportion to its white
population, an enormous number of Chinamen.
They herd together in a big camp
over on one side of the city. This
camp, from which a most dilapi-
dated leper was recently taken, is
full of smellful Asiatics, frowsy
women, mangy dogs, dirty half-breed
children, all mixed up with that vile
acrid stink that hangs about the
habitation of the Chow. The camp
covers about a square mile in area.
Its tracks and lanes are littered with
old tins, dirty rags, filthy paper, and
odds and ends of garbage. The
places in which the Chows and their
harems aha families live are low, un-
ventilated, overcrowded, reeking
hovels. The place would be a hot-
bed of disease at the South Pole,
and Bendigo in summer is nearly
tropical. Still it’s nobody’s business
to make Asia . clean up the place.
The Chinaman is held up for ad-
miration by the fat Bendigo mining
men. He makes a living—or pre-
tends to —out of tailings that white
men won’t work. Won’t work,
notice, not can’t work ; and there-
fore he is regarded as ‘‘an important
economic factor.” As a matter of
fact, the Chow on Bendigo lives in
large part on gold purloined from
the mines and amalgam stolen from
the batteries. He shovels over a few
tons of tailings and says he gets the
gold out of them. That is in his
spare time. His real business is fan-
tan, pak-a-pu, dominoes, opium, and
the running of bagnios.
The good old faith-healing and massage
business appears to be becoming a popular side
line with parsons engaged in the religious racket.
At Auckland (M.L.), t’other day, the Rev. M.
Walker (said to be a registered minister in
N.S.W.), sued a man for £4 for the treat-
ment of latter’s wife by massage, electrical
applications, &c. The reverend, besides giving
her internal and external treatment, earnestly
exhorted the lady to have faith in him and the
Almighty. But apparently she had too little
faith—which is the usual explanation—and she
wasn’t cured worth a cent. The Court nonsuited
the parson on the ground that he couldn’t demand
payment, as he wasn’t a registered medical practi-
tioner. It’s a cruel world.
Victorian Royal Commission to inquire
into the alleged criminal idiosyncrasies of the
police force has pretty well fizzled out. Except
that a number of beat-wallopers have been given
an opportunity of expressing their free, unfettered
opinions of their superior officers, nothing has
been gained. These same constables have told
the Commission their ideas of how promotion
should be arranged, and how criminals should be
caught, and how the force should be administered.
This is not the system Thomas Bent adopted with
the dissatisfied railway men, whose intelligence is
of a much higher order than that of the common,
kitchen-garden constable. Thomas apparently
was trying the other extreme of treatment,
and it has resulted in ghastly failure. The chief
abuse-finder in connection with the affair was
one Cornelius Crowe, an ex-constable who runs a
night patrol in the city of Melbourne in opposi-
tion to the State police system. Cornelius has
levelled charge after charge of corruption against
the Police Department, the detectives, and the
Chief Commissioner. Only one detective of the
whole lot has escaped Crowe’s attention. All the
other charges have been diligently inquired into
by the Commission, and shown to be baseless. On
the other hand, Jack Wren and his Fidus Achates,
Paddy Boardman, have taken a hand in the game.
Crowe accused Wren and his friends of squaring
the police. Boardman and Wren have produced
affidavits declaring that Crowe himself was bribed
to give away police information to the betting-
shops. The man who comes out of the affair
next worst to Crowe is David Gaunson, Victoria’s
political firebrand. David was put into Parliament
for the civil service under the Separate Represen-
tation Act. It was the police vote that got him the
seat. He was no sooner in the House, however,
than he became a bosom friend of Thomas Bent,
and his regular postal address was on Bent’s
“ weskit.’’ He also became the avowed enemy of
the Labor party. Crowe filled Gaunson up with
his bogey stories about the police, and it was
Gaunson’s voice always at Tommy’s hairy ear that
induced Bent to grant the Royal Commission.
The finishing touch was put to his cocktailery when
Gaunson appeared before the Commission and
“as his employer” commanded his confidential
clerk not to give evidence. Gaunson will possibly
try to pose before the police next elections as the
man who saved the situation by preventing his
clerk telling things that would have damned the
whole Force.
* * * tt
Sydney Sunday Times prints the pathetic
case of a family of nine, which, already on the
verge of destitution, was recently enlarged by
triplets. The father earns a meagre crust by
hawking, two grown-up sons are out of work, and
a third is onl /on half-time. The poor doddering
sheet heads the case “ The Penalty of Parentage,”
and asks, “ When are we going to have the large
family pension ? ” It can suggest nothing for filling
these empty stumicks better than charity in the
form of “ the large family pension.” If we made
things instead of importing them, there would be
work enough to profitably employ the hawking
father and the three big sons, and enough
wages to support the triplets, but that fact hasn’t
reached the Sunday rag’s intelligence yet.
IF I WERE ROCKEFELLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The income of Mr. John D. Rockefeller, the American
millionaire, is estimated at £8,000,000 a year.”— Cable
message.
If I were Rockefeller, blessed
With such a pile of money,
This earth would flow at my behest
With cow-juice and with honey.
A willing push I’d get my way,
As soon as I had bought a
Big, brown-stone house at Mosman’s Bay,
Close down upon the water.
I’d have a splendid garden there,
A boathouse and a cellar,
And be a boshter millionaire,
If I were Rockefeller.
The opera girls I’d fetch along
And shout them gowns from Paris,
And hear them sing the latest song
Composed by Charles K. Harris.
The damsels, innocent of pads,
Whose glowing fascinations
Distinguish Davy Jones’s ads.,
Would all get invitations.
And all the jolly girls I knew—
Each bright-eyed fairy-teller—
Could come and spend the summer there,
If I were Rockefeller.
I’d get a crowd of decent pugs.,
Some poets, not addicted
To biting everybody’s lugs ;
Some artist chaps evicted.
We’d spend the mornings going strong—
The sunlit cove we’d swim in,
And bask upon the rocks along
With ripping, dripping woman.
We’d skip or give the ball a punch,
Spar lightly for a spell, or
Throw quoits, before the gong for lunch,
If I were Rockefeller.
When lunch was o’er, I’d rest ; or, if
The sea was blue and pleasing,
I’d scull to Manly in my skiff ;
Or, if the girls were teasing,
I’d forge my motor launch ahead
With cargo plump and pietty,
And leave the ferries all for dea 1,
And land them in the city.
My word ! that motor launch would fly—
I’d make its old propeller
Spin round a hurricane, if I
Were Rockefeller.
At night, the Boulder ban 1 would play
Us tunes that take some licking.
A ballet with May Moore Duprez
I’d have for lofty kicking.
We’d watch them pirouette and whirl,
Until our lively fancies
Would make us seize the nearest girl
And join her in the dances ;
And when she sought the moonlight calm
I’d squeeze her close and tell her
Long tales of love beneath the palm,
If I were Rockefeller.
The city kids by special train
Would travel to the mountains ;
I’d cheer the dead-beats’ dry Domain
By beer in all the fountains.
I’d lend my cash to each old mate,
Twould be my special hobby,
And pay their fines if some late night
They’d chanced to cheek a bobby.
If I’d the stuff, no florid rhyme
Could tell of doings sweller,
And it’s a gross injustice I’mj
Not Rockefeller.
vie.
A.B.
SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hail to the Spring-! The lark, on high, inanely
Carols away until compelled to stop
By want of breath ; and lodgers four insanely
Glare —as they glare on rafts—at one small chop.
Then comes the m.lkman —charioteer erratic—
Like the tornado raging in the lane,
And on the ink-pot’s brim, high in his attic,
The poet howls—and plunges in again.
VIC.
KODAK.


JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
V
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128-130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KING STREET,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
3
Guineas
An “ R. C. HAGON ” Suit for the nominal
price of Three Guineas.
Fashion Plates, Patterns, Self-Measurement
Forms on application or post free.
These perfectly tailored Suits have been
sent to every pait of the Commonwealth.
They embody the essentials of perfect cloth
craft.
R. C. HAGON,
Herein nt
Tailor . .
129 King Street, SYDNEY.
On the Divorce Court Air :
Every big- divorce suit represents a Grand Parade of
hypocrisy. To the attention of an elderly or middle-aged
gentleman in a wig several gentlemen, not usually quite
so old, adduce evidence and arguments to show that Bad,
in the course of his life, has not been a strict monogamist,
and that Lad hasn’t been quite a Sir Galahad. It is per-
haps mentioned in an awed whisper that Lad has a lady
for mistress instead of for wife, and that Bad neglects
his spouse to pay indiscreet attentions to Miss Gay.
Whereupon the Judge is profoundly shocked, and oounsel
suffer from emotion too deep for tears, and the jury,
if there is a jury, blinks its eyes in blank wonder-
ment that such things should be. Even the court-crier
looks sad and solemn. And nary a person winks. To
wink would be to spoil the game, and this Divorce Court
game is played with the deadly seriousness of a test
cricket match. It is British Respectability’s solemn
testimonial to itself. The proceedings declare clamantly :
“This is unusual; quite unusual. We never do such
things as-a general rule in our community. Observe our
air of shock at the painful revelations that all are not like
us. When we married we were innocent young men ;
and ever since we have been very good indeed, and have
never, never wandered from the matrimonial fold.”
In other places, which are not so British in sentiment,
the Divorce Court is quite different. Monsieur, who has
been found out with Mam’selle Fi-fi, takes an obvious
pride in the fact that Fi-fi is something of a peach. Or
Madame, against whom the case is going, shows a modest
disconcertment certainly at such things being talked
about before strangers, but it is a disconcertment very
much modified by her air of “The poor man loved me
so. What could Ido but console him ? ”
In the U.S.A.—where a flourishing Divorce Court busi-
ness exists—they might, ere this, have found a match for
the British Divorce Court Air, but, unhappily, in the land
of the wooden ham, Divorce has sunk to the level of a
trifle. Phineas D. cuts the bond because Columbia serves
the coffee cold in the morning, and Lycia shunts Cyrus Q
because of his gauche taste in brown boots. There is thus
seldom a chance for anything to happen to put on Airs
about. The British Divorce Court Air of sodden and
astounded wonderment that such things should be is
indigenous to the British Isles and is peculiar to them and
to Australia, to which spot it has been transplanted.
Possibly it is one of the secrets of England’s greatness. A
nation that could play poker with such an air would bluff
tiie Universe down to its last chip.
* * * *
“ Terence ” writes :
The Women’s Branch of the Australian Liberal Union
carried Mrs. Vandeleur Kelly’s motion “ That no midwife
should be allowed to act as such unless possessing a cer-
tificate from a recognised midwifery school.” This may
be all very well if confined to cities or large centres, but
thousands of bush children are born with very little “cer-
tificated ” assistance. The most gruesome bush memory
I am oppressed with has to do with a confinement in a
bush hamlet, where the sole medical man had scared the
fairly competent but uncertificated old midwife with the
terrors of a then proposed midwifery law. The dis-
grace to Esculapius backed against the rickety bed
with one hand clenched and a glass of whisky
in the other, vowing he would have the old
woman gaoled or hanged if she lent a hand. “ It’s my
job,” he yelled, “ and I must have £lO for it.” The owners
of the hut hadn’t a penny, but a couple of people volun-
teered to advance £3. “Go to blazes with your £3,”
yelled the Disgrace. “ Think a gentleman like me ’ll
work for £3? I must have the money in my fist, or she
can die, and if that old harridan puts a finger on her I’ll
hang her.” A total of five pounds was made up, and
then seven and a fresh bottle of whisky was reached, and
the Disgrace was left to his professional duties —which, it
is fair to add, he successfully performed.
•* * # *
From Melbourne Age, early this month :
T MATILDA ROWLINGSON, of Adelaide, give
> notice that unless I hear from my husband,
John Rowlingson, within three months, I shall marry
again. (Sgd.) Matilda Rowlingson.
She didn’t have to wait three months ; in less
than a weqk this icicle came along and chilled her
budding hopes of matrimony :
Matilda Rowlingson communicate with her
husband, John Rowlingson, Carlton P.O. Ade-
laide papers please copy.
That is the worst of husbands. They never know
when they are not wanted.
• * * *
Drinking is a dangerous vice for doctors.
Sometimes they poison themselves, which is
painful. Sometimes they kill their patients,
which is sad for the patients. Sometimes they
just miss cases and fees. But Dr. Herbert Watson
Brownrigg struck something worse than any of
these catastrophes. He went on a howling drunk at
Clermont (Q.), and, according toliis own story, woke
up to find himself married to a lady he did not
want. He said he had a hazy recollection of
seeing a woman in a rather striking red dress, and
also remembered being surprised at meeting that
woman, or some other woman, in a nightdress.
His companion swore that the lady carried the
doctor off to his room by physical force, and
locked herself in with him all day, and took him
out in the evening and married him. The lady
swore that the doctor was quite sober, and made
violent love to her, offering to settle as much
as £lOOO on her if she would marry him out
of hand. She said it was not a matter of money,
but he insisted, and she had to let him have his
own way. The parson had a very distinct recol-
lection of the affair—it was the second of two
cases in which he had been paid £5 for doing the
trick, and £5 marriages were rare. The doctor
was, he said, perfectly sober, and acted and spoke
like a polished gentleman of the world. He was
pained and shocked when he received a letter
from the doctor asking him what was the name of
the lady he had been married to, and he didn’t
answer the letter. The jury gave a verdict in
favor of the lady in the striking red dress, and the
Judge remarked that there were some “lovely
liars ” on one side or the other.
• * « •
Melbourne Argus interviews many Mel-
bourne employers to demonstrate the impropriety
and impertinence of under-paid and over-worked
clerks in seeking longer salaries and shorter shifts.
Most of the bosses are indignant at the want of
ambition in their clerks, and explanations reveal
the fact that “ambition,” in this case, means an
ardent desire to work longer, oftener, and more
(jheaply for the beloved boss. One boss exclaims
bitterly : “The cleik will not settle down seriously
to the business of life. After office hours and on
every holiday he is off after pleasure.” This is
very, very wrong. The clerk should employ his
time on holidays and after hours, sitting with ice
on his head, thinking up things that will benefit
his master’s business and help him to be a great
Lord Mayor, and eat with Governors, and even-
tually get a K.C.M.G.-ship all to himself.
A CASE FOR DYNAMITE.
ENTHUSIASTIC AMATEUR: “ Who is he? Why,
that’s ‘ Ironbark’ Bill Biggins, the champion
heavyweight, a glutton for punishment. You
couldn’t kill him with an axe!"
HIS FRIEND: “ What a pity!”
Two members of the great Brown family
have caused the law considerable anxiety. Last
August, Mr. Brown aspersed Mrs. Brown’s char-
acter, in consequence of which Mrs. Brown had
the law on him, and obtained an order to make
him pay ss. a week for a child for whose existence
he had declined to accept responsibility. Mr.
Brown thereupon appealed to a Judge in cham-
bers, who quashed the order. Mrs. Brown
took the matter to the Full Court, which
quashed Mr. Brown on the irrelevant ground
that a relieving clerk had signed certain
depositions, and of the existence of the
relieving clerk the Full Court was not legally
aware. Brown, who had had nothing to do w r ith
the relieving clerk, and did not know him from a
sheet of bark, appealed to the High Court. The
High Court took the matter home to bed, slept on
it, looked up aged precedent, and finally decided
that the truth of the depositions was not cavilled
at, and that Brown was not responsible for the
relieving clerk, so it squelched the Full Court. It
is a horribly expensive way to get satisfaction, but
when you do get it it’s all there.
* * * *
The brutality-loving honorarium again ! In
a case of wife-beating at the Carlton (Melb.) court
lately, the arresting constable swore he found the
victim “covered with blood ; her hair was down,
and there was a gash on her left ear. There was
also an abrasion on the nose, and the front of her
dress was saturated with blood. The accused was
lying on the bed, and there were pools of blood
on the floor. He said he wanted to get rid of his
wife.” Then the horrible J.P. spoke to him
quite firmly, and fined him £3 —a whole £3—for
what looked like a fairly good attempt at getting
rid of the lady per morgue. If there was a
reasonable supply of healthy public opinion in the
country that kind of J.P. would be cut dead by
every decent citizen. But the law has its splashes
of vigor. The South Melbourne Court has just
handed out “12 months’ hard” to a “Yarra
Pirate ” —an aged derelict who for years had
meandered round the wharves picking up uncon-
sidered trifles and doing a bit of smuggling, or
butter agency, or something of the kind.
* * * *
The Chow, although he practically domi-
nates two big industries in Melbourne—furniture-
making and cabbage-culture—is a diminishing
agony. In the middle sixties there were quite
70,000 Chinamen in Bent’s State. To-day a good
authority—Moy Ling, the Methodist Yellow
missionary—estimates Bent’s Chow subjects at
7000. Some have gone to China in the flesh, but
the vast majority have gone back as bones. The
Rev. Moy invites goodly Australians to lament
the loss, as it diminishes the missionaries’ oppor-
tunities of saving the Chinese. Good Australians,
being more desirous of saving Australia, will bear
up, however.
* * * *
The Dailey divorce suit was a case of pay-
ing a greal deal of money for a very small quan-
tity of information. After a vast expenditure of
costs the only question to which the jury gave an
unhesitating answer was the one which asked if
the parties were married, and that was the only
point on which the parties themselves were fully
agreed before the trouble started.
“Pelican ” : Easterners scoff at Adelaide’s
trams and tabernacles, but there are good points
about the village. It is the only town in
Australia where they press Aus-
tralian goods on you. I
went into a draper’s
shop to buy sing-
lets. The man
behind the
counter pro-
duced S. A.
flannel at
once. “The
best we
keep,” he
said ; “ it’s
all wool.” I
went into
another shop
and asked for
Stephen s’
ink. “We
don’t keep
it. You’ll
find our own
just as good.
The only dif-
ference is
that the im-
ported ink
costs a shil-
ling, and we
sell ours for
sixpence.
You see.
ours doesn’t
have to pay
duty.” And, sure
enough, it was just
as good. This is
some of it. I asked
a publican for brandy.
He handed out S. A. brandy, as a
matter of course. That clinched it.
Evidently I was in a country that
believed in itself. Add that Ade-
laide is the cleanest, best laid-out,
and almost the most beautiful city
in Australia, and that it has in the
Advertiser one of the few dailies
that a good Australian can read without
disgust, and you will See that it is not the
sort of town that Sydney—where the Stink-
ing Fish come from—can turn up its nose at.
The Guy Fawkes lunacy has blown up at
last and landed two Whangamata (M.L.) men
in hospital. Thinking to afford the kiddies some
amusement they poured two gallons of naphtha into
the harbor from a boat, and after the naphtha had
spread over the water one of them threw a match
overboard. A great explosion followed, the flames
enveloping the boat and ascending some ten feet
high till the affair looked like a volcano. Their
next address was Waihi infirmary for scorched
lunatics.
It may interest
some people, now
that the Orange body
has decided to raise
sectarian strife and
the Irish Home
Rule issue at the
next Common-
wealth elections,
to note the change
in the spirit of the
times in Ireland
itself. On Queen’s
birthdays and during
royal visits the eques-
trian statue of King
William 111. on College
Green, Dublin, was always
decorated until within a few
years ago. Now the statues
of Grattan, Moore, O'Con-
nell, &c., &c., are decorated
on State days, and “Billy”
is left unadorned. Till early
in the 19th century the statue
was regularly festooned with
flags and flowers on public
occasions, when the Lord
Lieutenant, followed by the
Lord Chancellor, the Judges,
and the Lord Mayor, with the
“Rotten Corporation,” paraded in state
round the image, but all this is pretty
well forgotten. Seeing that Edward VII. owes
his throne to his Stuart descent, any mixing up of
reverence for. the present reigning family with
worship of the Dutchman who chased the Stuarts
from the throne is rather confusing.
* * * *
“ Gumleaf ” : On Wednesday my queer,
little maid-of-all-work had “an afternoon orf”—
a special concession, as ’Arry gets every first
Wednesday in the month. That girl would make
a good second to Peggy Pryde. She just stood
with one hand on the door-post and one on her
hip, and this adventure came out in one breath :
Good time? I sh’d think so me an’’Arr.v went up ter
Callan Park to see me uncle e’s cracked ’Arry waited
outside me uncle wus playin’ cricket I wus watchin’
’em it cum on ter rain I sez to myself no place fer me (I
’ad on ipe ’at with er fether) I nicks out ter ’Arry we git
er little way erlong th’ road wot sh’d we see but a mournin’
coach oo sh’d we see drivin’ but er pal er ’Arry’s ’Arry
puts up ’es ’and ’orses stop “ w’er’e yer goin’ ” sez ’Arry
“ stables ” sez ’e “ wot’s er matter with me an’ ’er gittin’
in ” sez ’Arry “ right o ” sez ’e we gits in an’ drives right
up ter th’ door ’ere didn’t 3 r er see us git out wacher goin
ter ’ave fer brekfus ?
When a dog’s conscience is troubling him
he barks all night and keeps the neighborhood
awake, and the human article seems just as
illogical. Last week Sydney was shaken up sud-
denly by a lady who repented. Her story is that
the will—made in her favor—of a wealthy old sea-
captain who lately died in Maoriland was a forgery.
The will was being contested by a nephew ; and
the beneficiary, the two women who witnessed the
document, a Sydney solicitor, and a man who
seems to have been giving a general support, were
to leave for Wellington to fight the case.
They were also to leave with some money
borrowed from another Sydney solicitor. They
didn’t get away because the beneficiary was
ill in bed with her conscience or something. A
nurse aggravated the disease by reading the Scrip-
ture to her, and she suddenly sat up in bed, and
repented bitterly, and began to bark. Logically, of
course, a woman in an abnormal state of repentance
should simply have gone to the police station,
given herself up, and asked to be put on short
rations in the most uncomfortable cell available.
It was her own repentance, and she should have
made certain of her own cell. Instead of
this she seems to have gone forth and
given so much alleged information to the
other solicitor—the one who lent the money
—that four people who hadn’t repented at all were
run in. Supposing her story is proved true, these
other people will fall in for trying to help her to
a great deal of money. Presumably, though, the
lady who repented will simply be used as a wit-
ness, so she won’t fall in, unless she imprisons
herself in her own coal cellar after the case is over,
or spanks herself for her share of the sin. The
other people, whether the case is proved or not,
have, quite naturally, only a limited opinion of
this kind of repentance.
* * * *
Had Miss Cross, the Randwick girl whose
body was found at the foot of the Coogee cliffs the
other day, lived in the time of Theocritus or some
of the other polished and imaginative Greek poets,
she would probably have been immortalised as a
victim of the jealousy of Venus. She was a
respectable and unusually hard-working girl who
toiled by day for an employer, and spent her even
ings making dresses for friends and neighbors.
Her knowledge of the other sex seems to have
been restricted to one young man, who called
round in the evenings, and talked to her while she
toiled on the collective frock of the neighborhood.
Nothing could have been more eminently respect-
able and dully prosaic. Then one day the girl
confided to her sister and father that she had
fallen a “ victim ” to some man whose name she
would not disclose. Apparently she had previ-
ously confided in the young man who used to
cheer up the dressmaking in the evenings, for he
had sorrowfully packed up and departed to Vic-
toria. She left a letter deploring her “ fall ” and
the fact that it had brought ruin and disgrace on
her father and his family. And then, when the
doctor examined the body, he found that the fall
and the unknown man were mere myths—illusions
of a disordered imagination.
WHEN THE BONDI BREEZES BLOW.
"Bathing suit, do you call it? Great Scot! if
your husband sees it he'll make it a divorce
suit.”
“ Viator ” : Sydney and Melbourne are
sadly in need of national portrait galleries. What
a ramshackle lot there is in Melbourne, the basis
being an assumption that the Australian nation
has been made by its imported Governors. Other-
wise the most conspicuous portraits are those of
Snooks and Bloggins, contributed either by them-
selves or by their admirers. Yet the Melbourne
Corporation has quite an ideal gallery, in its
limited outlook. How much more rational than
Westminster Abbey is the London National Por-
trait Gallery!


The WILD CAT COLUMN
So long as State Treasurers borrow, and pay for
ordinary works with the borrowed money, and steal the
proceeds of public-land sales, and pay for ordinary services
with the stolen money, the monthly State revenue
returns are to a great extent a delusion and a snare.
They are also a very imperfect delusion and a snare,
because hardly any two Treasurers furnish the same
details, and several of them don’t furnish any details to
speak of; and a fool public is apparently not sufficiently
interested in its own money-matters to kick about it. But
as far as the figures go, here are some comparisons built
upon them: —
State Revenues for November.
Nov., ’O4. Nov., ’O5.
N.S. Wales ..£928,234 £1,108,792 Inc. £180,558
Victoria .. 647,800 600,150 Dec. 47,650
Queensland .. 229,120 280,154 Inc. 51,034
Westralia .. 274,260 272,521 Dec. 1,739
Tasmania .. 86,864 95,842 Inc. 8,978
And from the beginning of the current financial year :
State Revenues for Year so far.
July-Nov. ’O4. July-Nov., ’O5.
N.S. Wales ..£4,344,292 £4,666,236 Inc. £321,944
Victoria.. .. 2,868,527 2,876,443 Inc. 7,916
Queensland .. 1,436,631 1,574,292 Inc. 137,661
Westralia .. 1,338,634 1,343,193 Dec. 25,441
Tasmania .. 354,643. 367,428 Inc. 12,785
July-Sept., ’O4. July-Sept., ’O5.
S. Australia(3 mos.) 580,602 583,155 Inc. 2,553
For the large increase shown by N.S.W. a good season
and a record railway traffic are mainly responsible. The
railway revenue shows an increase of £213,722. The
Commonwealth, which Carruthers says is filling N.S.W.’s
cup of iniquity, has also poured in £82,362 more this year
than it did last; and £82,362 is a brand of iniquity which
deserves to be received with something more than'a snarl.
The Queensland increase is due to the same two causes—
Commonwealth refunds are £54,756 better, and £75,744
more has come from the railways. The Vic. returns show
a heavy decrease for the month alone ; but in Nov., 1904,
there was a very large payment from the sugar bonus
trust acp.ount. Westralia continues to drift steadily on
to the rocks, and Prem.er Rason rushes to save the situa-
tion with a tax on the totalisator, or on periwinkles, or
something. Westralia hasn’t even the ghost of a land-tax
yet in force ; and Rason lets that obvious plan of raising
something substantial stand over until be has achieved
the quarter-million deficit that he looks forward to with-
out any alarm whatever.
As to the other side of the ledger:—
Expenditure for Year so far.
July-Nov., July-Nov.,
1904. 1905.
N.S. Wales .. ..£4,919,884 £4,918,892 Dec. £lOB2
Queensland .. .. 845,978 £93,801 Inc. 47,823
Westralia .. .. 1,562,220 1,420,780 Dec. 141,440
S. Australia (3 mos.) 629,998 642,672 Inc. 12,674
Victoria and Tasmania furnish no figures whatever on
this subject. Bringing revenue and expenditure together
we get these results
N.S. Wales.—The present deficit is £252,566. At this
time last year the State had a deficit of £574,439, and the
year finished with a surplus (how realised is another
story) of £141,843. As so far this year an improvement of
£321,873 is shown, there should be enough available at
the end of the year to start a Public Works B'und. In
fact, there isn’t any reason why the Public Works Fund
shouldn’t be started now.
Queensland.—At the end of Nov., 1903 (Philp and
Cribb were then in office) the State had £336,630 saved up
towards the current half-year’s interest-bill ; at Nov., 1904
(soma time after Morgan and Kidston had got to work), it
had £590,653 in hand ', it has now £680,491 available.
Compared with last year it is £89,838 better off ; com-
pared with 1903, it is £343,861 better off.
Westralia.— The present deficit is £124,109, of which
£77,587 has been piled up during the past five months and
£46,522 was brought forward from last year. And
Westralia is the State which will this year pay to (mostlv
absentee) mine-owners over £2,000,000 in dividends ; and
a mining dividend is only made by digging up wealth and
carting it away. In this case it is being carted away
where it can’t be reached by any future Westralian
taxation.
S. Australia. —For the first quarter of last financial
year the deficit was £49,369 ; this year it is £59,516.
Last year the State wound up with a surplus which you
could see if you looked hard at it with a microscope ; this
year the position is £10,147 worse. Yet the Tory Leg.
Council has refused Price and his Treasurer Peake some
small increase in the Land Tax, on the ground that it isn't
wanted.
So far "this year N.S.W. has spent £622,845 of
borrowed money, which is at the rate of just upon
£1,500,000 a year. This means an annual addition
of, say, £55,000 to the interest bill. The State is
having a season of unusual prosperity. Money is more
abundant than it has been for many years. The wool
clip is very good, and the price very high. The harvest
prospects are excellent. The State’s metals are at boom
prices. And still Carruthers the Reformer borrows at the
rate of £1,500,000 a year. When will N.S.W. be prosper-
ous enough, in the Reformers’opinion, to pay its way?
Queensland has so far this year spent £90,101 of loans,
as against £85,668 to Nov. 30, 1905—a small offence, but a
growing one. The Queenslander ought to know what it
feels like to be in pawn, and what getting deeply into
pawn means for his State. Cohen calls for £4l of every'
£lOO raised by taxation, or collected in fares or freights,
or received from any other services in Queensland. And
with that knowledge, the Queenslander should be on his
guard against the drift that even now seems to have
started—just as it started in Maoriland after that State’s
historical cleaning-up under Bailance.
♦ * * *
Bam ford* has a motion on the business paper of
the House of Reps.—“ That the Government should forth-
with introduce legislation for the better protection of
the interests of Australian policy-holders in foreign life-
assurance co.’s.” What is the matter with legislation for
the better protection of Australian policy-holders in all
offices? Policy-holders in American offices are, at any
rate, protected to this extent, that there is an Insurance
Department in New York, which makes an annual inves-
tigation of the affairs of all offices in that State,
and that is some guarantee of their solvency ;
hut even that much protection is not accorded to
policy - holders in Australian offices. No doubt
policy-holders in the best Australian offices do not
at present need any more protection than their excellent
management affords ; but Australian offices are not all
best. As to. Foreign offices, there seems no reason why,
especially in view of-the recent scandals, Australia should
not follow European precedents, and prescribe that
foreign offices should maintain in Australia assets (to be
subject to valuation by the Australian insurance depart-
ment) equal to the value of their policy liabilities.
♦ * * *
In the report of (Queensland Railway Commis-
sioner Thallon on the Cloncurry railway it is stated that
there are 3800 tons of rails and fastenings (equal to about
50 miles of line) lying at Croydon (N.Q.). This material
was imported in 1890 for the Normanton-Clonourry line,
and present cost of same, plus interest, must be easily
£50,000. This is a good sample of how Australia, in its
borrowing stupidity, is burning the candle at both ends.
Fifty thousand pounds worth of railway material gradu-
ally growing in cost per the interest bill, and just as
-gradually vanishing to nothing per the rust. It was
originally stated that Thallon would recommend these
rails for use in the Richmond-Cloncurry extension, hut
he has not done so. All circumstances considered, per-
haps he cannot be blamed in this particular case, but the
sooner those rails are put in use or honorably written off
as a bad debt the better.
Apparently it doesn’t take much in the way of
accounts to satisfy N.S.VY. Parliament. Sydney Harbor
Trust laid its figures before the Assembly, the other day.
and shoved that for the past year (to June 30) the
balance available to meet interest, &c., was £175,736.
About a dozen officers certified that the accounts were
correct, or that “ the writing above is a true copy of the
original statement whereof it purports to be a copy,” and
so ne more initials checked it and found it correct, and
somebody else initialled the other initials as a guarantee
of good faith. But nobody troubled to say what the
capital expenditure had been, or how much the
interest bill was, or whether the money available
to pay the “interest, &c.,” was sufficient for the
purpose—whether, in short, this concern in which
over £4,000,000 of loan money has been sunk, is
paying its way, or whether it is another of the permanent
and reproductive undertakings that have to be subsidised
oat of taxation. Apparently, however, according to the
Auditor-General (Annual Report for 1904-5), the capital
expenditure has been £5,187,044 ; and, taking the
average interest payable on the public debt at 3'582 p.o.
(with an allowance for some portion of the capital not
spent during the early part of the year), the interest was
£184,970. As the net earnings were £175,736, the deficit,
on this basis, was £9234. And the statutory sinking fund
contribution has simply been allowed to drop through a
crack and become lost to sight. Parliament said there
should be a sinking fund, and provided for it
in the Harbor Trust Act of 1901 ; but the
Commissioners later on reported that sinking
funds were a humbug-, or words to that effect, and, so far
as can be seen, they have made no attempt to create the
fund which Parliament said should be created. Anyhow,
there is no sinking fund. Parliament started off by
deciding that in this matter the State should be honest
and pay off its debt; it knew that the wharf, and the
resumed slum building-, or the new building for that
matter, couldn’t last for ever, and it decided to wipe out
the capital cost by instalments. But when its instruc-
tions in the matter are put away in a bole, Par-
liament doesn’t trouble. It, apparently, wasn’t in
earnest about the matter ; if a sinking fund could be
dredged up out of the harbor along with the decaj'ed dog
and the cat that wasn’t wanted, well and good ; but if it
had to be worked for, and paid for—well, Parliament
would rather be dishonest. All the same, it borrowed
£4,000,000 or so from Cohen on the express statement
that there was a sinking fund in the Bill under which the
money was to be spent ; and if Cohen tells the N.S. Wales
Parliament that it is a fraud, he will seem to have pretty
good grounds for his remarks.
* * * *
The farmer who believes that Freetrade lowers
the prices of the articles he uses is just now getting
another lesson on the folly of that pet theory. Bran bags
and cornsacks —which are on the free list—are selling-
to-day at ss. 6d. and 7s. 3d. respectively in Melbourne,
the Calcutta quotations thereof being 4s. 3d. and ss. 9d.
delivered free on Melbourne wharf ; so the farmer is
paying the importer about 30 per cent, of the value of the
article for the trouble of carting it from the wharf to the
store. These bags have advanced 2s. per dozen in the
last twelve months solely through the importers woefully
under-estimating the consumption. Hessian bags, though '
made of the same material, have only risen 2d. per dozen
in the same time (this being the actual advance on the
raw material). The difference is solely owing to the fact
that there is a 10 per cent, duty on hessians, and they are
consequently made in Australia.
* * # *
The Victorian State Land Bank
Loss by Carried
Discount on ' Written to
Loss. Loans Floated. Off. Reserves. Deficit.
1837 £1,462 £1,462
Profit'. 5 Reserves
1598 1,608 £l6OB 146
1899 5,551 5551 5,697
1900 6,846 6846 12,543
1901 8,150 £2931 5219 17,762
1902 9,090 4414 4676 22,438
1903 8,047 *385 £2OOO 4662 27,100
1904 10,280 5374 2000 2906 30,006
1905 9,560 8241 1319 31,325
The profits have again been seriously affected by heavy
discounts paid on debentures sold during the year. The
practice of the Savings Bank (of which institution this is
the advances department) is to regard as a liability the
full amount of the debt which will have to be paid on
maturity, reckoning the discount on the other side as a
temporary asset, and gradually wiping it off out of
profits. In all the discounts have amounted to £22,345,
of which £5162 has been written off, leaving £17,153 yet
to be dealt with. In the foregoing table, however, as
this £17,183 is purely a paper asset, it has been written
off at once, and only the apparently solid reserves are
shown. The effect of issuing, debentures at a discount is
to make a saving in the interest bill ; so that, if there
were not this loss on debenture-issues, there would be
less profit shown on current operations. The main
difference is that the loss is charged at once instead of
slightly heavier interest affecting the earnings to the end
of the chapter. The discount for the past year shown
above (£8241) was in respect to £200,000 worth of
debentures—half issued in August, 1904, and the other
half in March, this year. These issues were the dearest
money yet raised by the bank ; the early lot (3j per cent,
at a minimum of £95 10s.) costs £4 2s. Id. per cent, on
the minimum, the later lot costs £4 os. 6d. per cent. As
the bank’s expenses amount to over j per cent., it would
have been a losing business bad the old maximum rate of
4£ per cent, for advances been maintained ; at 4J per
cent., which the Commissioners have been permitted to
charge since the beginning of the year, a bare margin of
profit—certainly not sufficient to cover risks—is shown
on the dearest money. Fortunately, however, for the
reserves, it isn’t all dearest 'money ; £lOO,OOO raised in
1901 is costing only £3 7s. per cent.
Some further details concerning this valuable
institution:—
Mortgages held Working Expenses in propor-
June, at date. Expanses. tion to Mortg-ages.
1897.. £108,350 £R>B3 £lll 1 per cent.
1898 .. 523,852 3831 14 7 „
1599 .. 758,983 4465 11 9 „
1900 .. 895,913 5813 12 11 „
1901 .. 1,021,240 6537 12 9 „
1902 .. 1,144,826 7155 12 6 „
1903.. 1,267,207 8022 12 8 „
1904 .. 1,337,817 8272 12 4 „
1905 .. 1,369,673 9080 13 3 „
There is nothing to explain the jump in expenses. But
in the previous year, when the expenses were below the
average, only one lot of debentures was sold ; this past
year, two lots were pushed off, and of this money there
remained in hand at the end of the year something like
£175,000 to go on with, as against £47,000 twelve months
before. Most likely this accounts for some at least of the
rise in the expense rate ; had the bank kept off the market
for a couple of months more (as it might have done,
only money' seemed very plentiful and cheap at the
moment) the expenses might have been kept at least
under 13s. The S. Australian rate, for-the same service,
is 13s. Bd. ; the Maoriland rate 4s. lid. But Maoriland
has more than twice as much money out. An extremely
satisfactory feature is that, though in all £1,890,299 has
been advanced in Victoria, the total of properties in
possession is only £2561, whijh is less even than the total
of 12 months ago ; while of this year’s interest (£60,595)
only £ll is in arrear, and of the repayments of principal
(£27,151) only £8 has not been paid. And yet the stupid
party is always telling us that once the State touches
banking and starts making advances, every politician will
unload his dead-beats on to the department, with
disastrous consequences. The most disastrous conse-
quence visible here is that “ strug-gling farmers ” have
this year been able to borrow at 4f p.c., on easiest terms
as to repayment, though it has actually been costing the
State over 4 p.o. to raise the money ; and still the busi-
ness has been directly profitable to the State.
* * * *
The English, Scottish and Australian Bank
to June 30: —
Profits on
Net Repurchase
Business of Dividends, &c. Re-
Profits. Deposits. serves.
(3 p.c. paid on Deferred Inscribed Deposit Stock)
1897 ..£10,870 £10,870
1898 .. 6,034 £29,175 Written Off £8,816 37,263
1899 .. 15,411 21,032 „ „ 6,582 67,124
(4J p.c. paid on Deferred Inscribed Deposit Stock)
1900 .. 38,465 8,678 2J p.c. = 13,486 100,781
1901 .. 41,907 579 3J „ „ 18,880 124,387
1902 .. 49,329 4,929 4 „ ~ 21,578 157,067
1903 .. 43,806 1,828 4 „ „ 21,578 178,123
1904 .. 45,585 1,273 4 „ ~21,578 203,403
1905 .. 48,348 1,627 { Wr f tfcen ” o( f 145,709
The accounts leave the situation none too clear. The
directors state that they have written off £77,270, w.neb
was the amount of the capital reserve at Junei 30th, 1904.
This reserve was made up of “ the difference between the
cost and nominal amount of the bank’s perpetual stocks
purchased and cancelled, including- stocks purchase
of profits in accordance with the articles. Subseque y
an amount of £7192 was made available for the same pur-
pose, plus the amount of profit made on the purchase
(apparently £1527); but these two items have dropped
out of the accounts, and can only be regarded as having
also been written off. They may form some part of an
internal reserve ; but in that case the effect is the same as
if certain assets had been written down. Ihe jb/7,z/u
referred to by the directors has come off premises ana
furniture, w'hich now stand at £376,939. The writing-off
has helped the profits to show a much better return on
shareholders’ funds; including profits made on repur-
chasing deposits at a discount, the return for four years
has been :
1902 £7 8 7 per cent. 11904 ..£6 7 1 per cent.
1903 .. 6 17 2 ~ „ I 1905 .. 7 5 7,,,,
Deposits at interest (£1,378,338) are £186,800 more than
the previous year ; current accounts (£1,177,6L6) are
£10,504 more. Advances (£4,208,724) have improved
£85,186. Deposits at interest have thus increased much
more rapidly than advances ; still the disproportion isn t
so marked as in connection with most Australian banks.
And the E.S. & A. has had other good use for the money
too ; the last of the old 4 per cent, terminable deposits
fell due during t.he year and were got out of the way.
But notwithstanding that heavy repayment, the liquid
assets still represent as much as 60 per cent, of those lia-
bilities to the public not covered by the scheme of recon-
struction.
In the matter of getting rid of the old trouble,
this is the position : *
Reconstructed Paid Off
Deposits. During Year.
June, 1896 .. .. £3,845,350 £87,317
1897 .. .. 3,384,694 460,656
1898 .. .. 3,267,149 117,545
, 1899 .. .. 3,218,490 48,659
„ 1900 .. .. 3,176,074 42,416
„ 1901 .. .. 2,941,659 234,415
„ 1902 .. .. 2,906,379 35,280
1903 .. .. 2,790,924 115,455
„ 1904 .. .. 2,780,482 10,442
„ 1905 .. .. 2,681,724 93,758.
This makes a total of £1,250,943 wiped off the slate in 10
years. There now remain :
(1) £983,574 of 4 percent, perpetual deb. stock, repay-
able on six months’ notice at 5 percent, premium.
(2) £889,419 of 3 per cent, perpetual deferred deposit
(3) £803,758 of 3 per cent, (now 4£ per cent.) redeemable
stock, interest payable out of profits.
It is to this last item that the redemptions (£7193 per
annum) are directed.
* * * *
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assur-
ance (Jo., Ltd. (Sydney) :
Total Expenses and Total Added to
Aug., Income. Claims. D.vidends. Outgoings. Funds.
1896 .. r-
1897 .. £1,540 £133 £2,754 £2,887 1653
1898 .. 6,393 751 4,423 6,i74 1219
1899 .. 7,252 992 5,102 6,094 1158
1900 .. 9,386 1277 5,934 7,211 2175
1901 .. 11,023 1483 6,551 8,084 2989
Taken from
Funds.
1902 .. 12,657 3775 13,633 17,408 4751
Added to
Funds.
1903 .. 17,235 2380 13,879 16,259 976
1904 .. 18,146 2765 13,964 16,729 1417
1905 .. 18,547 3605 12,412 16;077 2470
Total accumulated funds £9556
Office property written up (1898) £10,095
„ ~ * again written up (1901) 5,500
£15,595
Office property written down (1902) 5,500
10,095
Alleged present amount of insurance fund £19,651
Eighteen months ago, or thereabouts, this co., which has
had many vicissitudes, passed into almost entirely new
control, and great changes were promised. The year
shows that some progress has been made, though nothing
of a sensational sort. The expense rate, though still
exceedingly high, has, however, been materially re-
duced :
Outgoings (apart from Claims) Compared with Income.
1897 .. £6O 13 2 per cent. 1902 .. £lO7 14 3 per cent.
1898 .. 69’ 3 9 „ „ 1903.. 80 10 6 „ „
1899 .. 70 7 0 „ „ 1904.. 76 19 1 „ „
1900 .. 63 4 5 „ „ 1905.. 66 18 11 „ „
1901 .. 59 8 7 „ „
As the business in the industrial department is three times
as great as that in the ordinary department, nothing in
the way of low figures is possible. Yet, as these figures
include ordinary as well as industrial business, and as
ordinary business alone ought never to cost more than 25
per cent., the ratio is still far too high. It is undesirable
that the two classes of business should be lumped together
in this way. They stand on an entirely different footing ;
moreover, until they are separated, no proper comparison
between what this office can offer and what other life
offices can offer is possible. It is not possible to tell,
while the present methods lasts, what real progress the
co. is making in the matter of reducing expenses ; because
a reduction might result from easing-off on the always-
costly industrial business. It is a clumsy way of doing
things, and the new management should end it with all
possible speed.
a • • ( •
In addition to the paper value which has been
added to the buildings, the balance sheet shows as an
asset “ deferred instalments of annpal premiums, £1269”.
This is a wholly unsatisfactory item, which the reputable
office does not long keep on the premises. It is a dubious
asset in any case ; it is unusually dubious in an office
where forfeitures and surrenders are painful and frequent;
and it earns no interest anywhere. As to forfeitures
nothing can be said definitely. But “6968 policies
assuring £163,099 were written in the industrial depart-
ment, and in the ordinary department 727 policies
assuring £52,600, yielding an annual premium of £2588,
were issued.” Policies whicli should have added, say,
£BOOO or £lO,OOO to the income were thus issued al-
together ; yet the premium income was only £315 more
than it was in 1904. And as the claims and surrenders
only amounted to £3665, it looks as though for every
four policies that come in, three drop ojut without
waiting to acquire a surrender value. To send it forth
that during the year so many new policies have been
issued, with never a remark about .the number that have
been thrown up, after probably only a year’s premiums
have been paid, is ingenious, but it might be fairer to the
public to tell the whole tale. It is bad enough to have so
high an expense rate ; it is worse still if a vast proportion
of the business which costs so much to get lasts only -for
a year or so ; for new business posts approximately 10
times more than renewal business. As to the assets, it
was remarked 12 months ago that, on the average
of assurance fund and shareholders’^ capital, interest
and rents showed a return of £4 7s. 4a. per cent, ; and
that looked pretty good. But, on reconsideration,
that presents the matter in much too favorable a light.
The buildings carry a mortgage of £lO,OOO, and' the
revenue account is debited with £4Ol interest on loans.
Interest, &c., received amount to £1209. The net return
is therefore £BOB, which is at the rate of £2 18s. 6d. per
cent. It is clear enough from this, either that the co.
does not charge itself enough for its own office accommo-
dation, or that the assets are much overvalued. If the
fdrmer, then the true expense rate is even higher than it
is represented to be ; if the latter, then the assets ought
to be written down.
* * * *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and
Building Co. (Sydney):—
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1896 ..£6854 10 p.c. = £3200 £769 £2885 £10,983
Forfeited Capital Carried to Reserves 1781 12,764
1897 .. 6123 10 p.c. = 3295 1000 1828 14,592
1898 .. 4916 8* „ „ 2785 2131 16,723
Forfeited Capital Carried to Reserves 512 17,235
1899 .. 4235 7 p.c. = 2325 1910 19,145
Forfeited Capital Carried to Reserves 16 19,161
1900 .. 4392 7 p.c. = 2339 2053 21,214
1901 .. 4911 7 „ „ 2448 2463 23,677
1902 .. 5261 7 „ „ 2537 2724 26,401
1903 .. 5900 7£„ „ 2762 3138 29,539
1904 .. 6591 9 ~ „ 3355 3236 32,775
1905 .. 7639 10 „ „ 3792 3847 36,622
This co., which sells land mostly on time-payment, has
had what looks like a very good year ; though until the
last payment is completed it is impossible to tell
how good it really was. The profit disclosed is to
some extent an estimate ; the real profit may be
more, it may be less. All depends on the future. Appa-
rently something in the shape of an inner reserve is
accumulated to meet possible defaults in payments and
losses on that account; the amount of borrowers, and
purchasers’ balances, after deducting this suspense account,
is £75,149, or £13,878 more than it was a year ago. As
against that properties now stand at £26,153 instead of
£37,431 —a reduction of £11,268, so evidently the co. isn’t
making the mistake of buying, in the present state of the
market, for subdivision. Another satisfactory feature is
that debts to the public (including deposits) have been
reduced during the year from £28,463 to £26,219. Evi-
dently this land co., at any rate, is keeping its head so
far—it is selling land, and not buying it ; and it is using
a substantial part of the money it is receiving to pay off
its debts.
* * • *
Fourth Victoria Permanent Building So-
ciety (Melbourne): —
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1896.. £3,521 2 p.c. =£1917 £1694 £4,315
1897.. 2,912 2„ „ 1969 £943 4,315
1898.. 3,353 2„ „ 2024 1329 4,315
1899.. 4,214 2„ „ 2022 2192 4,315
1900.. 5,536 3„ „ 3036 1550 1000 5,315
1901 .. 6,865 4„ „ 3864 3001 8,316
1902.. 11,402 5„ „ 4578 6324 15,140
1903.. 12,811 6„ „ 5248 1046 6517 21,657
1904.. 7,746 6„ „ 4320 2926 24.553
1905.. 7,640 6,, „ 4365 208 3067 27,650
The large profits shown in 1902-3 resulted from consider-
able sales of properties, not, however, completed in those
years. Apart from that, a fairly-steady progress in the
matter of profits is disclosed. Four years ago the society
absorbed the Planet Society, with which it had been
closely connected for some time, and it established a
special reserve against the Planet’s assets. This reserve
(£lOOB last year) has now disappeared. An alternative
way of putting the year’s transactions would be :
Profit on completed business .. ..£7640
Profit on sales not completed .. .. 800
Total profit .. .. £8440
Less —Planet reserve written off .. 1008
Netprofit.. .. ..£7432
Which is the same final result as shown in the table, put
in a different way ; only in this way the continuous
progress is better shown. Other movements are traced
hereunder: —
1895. 1900. 1904. 1905.
£ £ £ L
Permanent Capital .. 35,606 72,741 72,741 72,741
Investing Capital.. .. 58,171 28,003 7,726 3,294
Deposits .. .. .. 104,076 49,022 152,813 160,745
Mortgage on Freehold .. 30,000 25,312 24,805 24,805
Mortgages held .. .. 117,357 89,345 200,133 210,302
Foreclosed properties .. 64,146 49,935 39,904 36,585
Other Freeholds .. .. 40,000 44,478 44,478 44,478
Interest earned per cent.
on average assets .. 3 18/- 4/19/- 5/15/- 5/17/7
Five years ago the shareholders’ capital represented 51
per cent, of the assets ; to-day it only represents 26 per
cent. The capital has decreased ; the deposits have in-
creased enormously. This, of course, means that the
shareholders’ risks have also increased enormously. The
extra £120,000 or so of the public’s money has been lent
out on mortgage ; if the securities slump, it won’t be the
depositors who must stand the racket—it must be the
shareholders. Meantime, no doubt, it is also the share-
holders who get the profits. Five years ago they were at
the rate of £5 10s. per cent, on capital; now they are at
the rate of £lO Is. per cent. It is a situation which calls
for very substantial additions to reserves.
* * * * *
The Westralian Trustee, Executor, and
Agency Co. (Perth)
Added
Dividend and to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Oct.. 1900 ..£477 10 per cent. = £473 £4 £5220
April, 1901 .. 756 10 „ „ 473 283 5503
Oct. 1901 .. 681 10 „ „ 473 208 5711
April, 1902 .. 769 10 „ „ 473 296 6007
Oct., 1902 .. 730 10 „ „ 473 257 6264
April, 1903 .. 1019 10 „ „ 473 546 6810
Oct., 1903 .. 986 10 „ ~ 473 513 7323
April, 1904 .. 1443 32J „ ~ 1523 7243
Oct., 1904 .. 1363 10 „ ~ 525 838 8081
April, 1905 .. 1551 30 „ „ 1575 8057
Oct., 1905 .. 1611 10 ~ „ 525 1086 9143
This co. still moves on, and shows earnings for the past
half-year at the rate of £l7 17s. per cent, per annum on
shareholders’ funds—which is a good deal better than
running an Australian factory under an ineffective tariff.
The difference arises mostly from the fact that the trustee
co., whose capital can earn 17 guineas per cent., hasn’t to
compete with some foreign trustee co. whose clerks get
Is. 4d. or thereabouts a day. Nevertheless the trustee
concern is pretty often in the hands of men who can’t
understand what manufacturers want Protection for.
Some further figures show how the Westralian Trustee Co.
is moving:—
Oct., Oct., Oct.,
1900. 1904. 1905.
Commission ~ .. .. £1512 £2602 £2685
Interest, &c. .. .. .. 562 788 665
Expenses .. .. .. .. 1241 1891 1740
Expenses p.c. of gross earnings 72'2 55'7 51’9
Profitsonshareholders’fundsp.c. 6/14/- 16/6/- 17/17/-
Trust balances .. .. .. £98,272 £233,948 £251,335
The co.’s balance-sheet presents the co.’s own affairs and
the trust affairs together, which doesn’t seem desirable—
though the two can certainly be separated. Of the co.’s
own resources, £12,962 is in Perth premises ; the balance
is mostly in cash balances.
# * • *
Broken Hill Junction Mining Co.
Losses. Written Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1902 £11,408
Mar., 1903 .. £4741 £1766 17,915
Sept., 1903 .. 3903 1686 23,504
Mar., 1904 .. 1910 1600 27,014
Sept., 1904 .. 1858 1520 30,392
Mar., 1905 .. 3708 1381 85,481
Sept., 1905 .. 2458 1313 39,252
This is three years’ record of the most unsatisfactory
mine at Broken Hill. The greater part of the time little
work was done, and that only to develop the property,
which had been previously worked to a standstill. The
mine contains bunches of very good ore ; but when a
bunch has been struck the market has always bounded up,
and the directors have allowed themselves to be forced or
cajoled into paying dividends which would show a
fair return on the excessive price, without spending
a fair amount on prospecting. Although the losses shown
above haves been made mainly during a development
period, so little ore was opened up that when, a few
months ago, the mill was re-started it had to be stopped
again after about 8000 tons had been put through. In-
cluding a small quantity of rich friable ore which was
sold to smelters, the profit claimed to have been made
was at the rate of 3s. per ton. But there was no real
profit. While this ore was being broken no development
work was done, and the cost of developing this particular
ore was not charged against it. After a few' weeks pros-
pecting the mill has been started again ; and, unless by a
stroke of luck-the co. happens to break into another patch,
another failure will soon be reported. Certainly it
has some-tailings which at present-high prices of metals
may possibly pay to re-treat, just as the South formerly
treated a large quantity at some profit; but not much is
to be hoped from this, because the most easily an
cheaply-won “crop” has already been taken out of tne
material. The mine, being so patchy, is hardly suitable
for separate control; it ought to be amalgamated mtn
some other which could help it through between tune .
At present it is a gambling counter, and under exisling
control onlv to be recommended as such.
*, * * •
Broken Hill North’s record since the new co.
took the mine over :
Tons Value Profit
treated, saved. Costs. Profit. per ton.
July 29.. 6976 £16,722 £11,847 £4875 lf s -
Aug. 26.. 7241 17.453 12,115 5368 14s. 9‘,d.
Sept. 23.. 7220 15,320 11,340 3980 11s. o|d.
Oct. 21.. 6793 14,638 10,831 3807 11s. 2|d.
Nov. 18.. 7341 17,136 11,925 5311 14s. 2*d.
For the first four weeks lead averaged £l3 10s. per ton,
silver 2s. sd. (fine); for the last four weeks iead £l5,
silver 2s. 7d. (fine). Considering the rise in themarkets,
the profit is now rather disappointing. Ore Y, “ff t
fallen considerably—from 20 per cent, to l7W,]>er cent.
for lead, and from 7Joz. to 6’490z. for sdven On. We
wests* run, profits are at the rate of £33,313 per h . a ,
or 4s. 6d. per share.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY appliances prop. | in. 504 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS, TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
robey —— '~tguuatas&ge* H,Bh SBCCU Ene, " ca
CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
EXPLOSIVES and MINING REQUISITES generally.
CAn-UOM/1-o u " u v Melbourne Manager: C. A. Lempriere.
Sydney Manager : A. E. Leplastrier.
The Cathcart Proprietary Gold Mine, Ararat,
was the first mine in Victoria to adopt electricity as motive
power for pumping, hoisting and puddling. This plant
commenced work in September, 1904, and has been in
constant and successful operation ever since. It consists
of two return tube boilers, 160 horse-power engine, 110
kilowatt dynamo, switchboard, an electric hoist capable
of lifting 800 tons in 24 hours, an electric three-throw
pump raising 25,000 gallons of water per hour and a 85
horse power motor driving the puddlers. The dynamo
also provides electricity for 40 lights by means of which
the surface and underground workings are lighted.
Experience obtained on this mine during one year’s
service proves that: (1) electricity makes an actual saving
in fuel amounting to about £350 per annum ; (2) the
dynamo and motors cost practically nothing to maintain ;
(3) the cost of lubrication is reduced to a minimum ; (4)
electric motors require much less attention than
steam engines; and finally (5) electricity is much
more flexible than steam power, permitting ready exten-
sion or change as mining conditions frequently require.
The contractors for this installation were the Austral Otis
Engineering Compaq' Limited, corner of Hanna and
Kavanagh-streets, South Melbourne, Sole Agents for Ganz
and Company, Budapest, Hungary.* [1
Financial Times (London), under date of 29th
July, 1905, in reviewing the annual report of The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited, wrote : —“The
annual report of this society for last year indicates an in-
crease in its funds, new premiums, premium income and
income from interest, and also an increase in the average
rate of interest earned by its assets.”*
» * * *
The old plan of making a friend of the family
the trustee and executor under the head of the family s
will is gradually disappearing ; the new plan is to get the
work done by a trustee company. Such a co. has officers
specially trained for the work, it is always available, its
fidelity is guaranteed by its capital. The Perpetual
Trustee Co., of Spring-street, Sydney, offers all these and
many more advantages.*
* * * *
A trustee co. has only one business the
management of estates committed to its charge. The
inevitable result is that, being expert in a business to
which it gives its constant and undivided attention, it
makes few or none of those mistakes which, when com-
mitted by amateur trustees, are often so costly. Nobody
knows what administration by a private or amateur trustee
will cost ; on the other hand, the Perpetual Trustee Co.,
of Spring-street, Sydney, established under special Act of
Parliament, has its fixed scale of charges, and the testator
knows what the cost will be. The charges are low, and
the faithful performance of the trust is guaranteed by the
co.’s capital, its reserves, and its good name.*
The Perpetual Trustee Co., of Sydney, has
made remarkable progress in securing the confidence of
the public of N.S. Wales. In 1895 the total value of the
trust estates in its control was £2,424,413. In 1905 •
within 10 years—the amount had reached £5,589,194.
This striking success is the best proof of the value of the
services it has rendered to its The company s
address is 2, Spring-street, Sydney ; it undertakes all
business of a li luciary character, and its wide experience
is placed at the disposal of testators, absentees, and
others, at extremely moderate charges.*
* • * •
A set of Three-Throw Pumps, capable of
delivering 3,000,000 gallons of water per day against a
head of 450 ft. is being built for the Victoria Deep Leads
G M Co., Moolert, Victoria, under the management of
Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co. The pumps are plunger
geared, externally packed, and fitted with machine-cut
speer and pinion wheels and a grooved pulley 14ft.
diameter for a rope drive. There are 3ft. valves of the
double flap type, strainers, and air vessels attached to
the suction pipes ; 6 suction and 6 delivery valves of the
double beat type ; 3 sluice valves, and 6 charging pipes.
An air vessel, Bft. long and 27£in. in diameter fitted with
water gauge glass and cocks is placed over the main
delivery junction piece which is situated over centre of
working barrels. The manufacturers are the Austral
Otis Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, who have
attained signal success with the construction of these
pumps.* t 3,
COBAK.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and. we w(ll
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.* #
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W,
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.* t *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any si<m of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more—alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia besides the 2500h.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
are also putting down “ Hornsby ” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
Golden Bendigo.— The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
Send us your address and we will post you a
pamphlet gratis how to purify acetylene gas. Brandt
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney, and Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Charters Towers.— Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they arc buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
Premier, Cobar (N.S.W), a prospecting show
with more than a g-ambling chance, hasn t yet fixed upon
the man to report. Co., although not yet in the market,
is in 48,000 shares, 24,000 going to the public at 10s.—tid.
on application and 6d. on allotment; and already
these shares have been applied for. There is practical y
nothing in the Premier for an expert to report on, as
development work hasn’t yet touched the point
interest—that is, the direct line of the Peak s reef, which,
30ft. away, has been surveyed as going straight from tne
Peak into the Premier property. W. H. Trewenack was
to report; but as he is managing the Peak for the syndi-
cate,” his refusal was looked for. Alfred Dunstan hadn t
time; now Danvers Power will probably be asked to nil
the bill.
* » * *
Mount Drysdale, Oobar, an interesting mine of
old-time richness which the enterprising Henry B. Coles
took under option to J. Bull some months back, moves
on to the inspection stage. Inspection on Bull’s account
will be made by Danvers Power, which means that the
mine is in for a severe overhauling. Drysdale has in its
favor the fact that it has distributed about £70,000 in
dividends, and it isn’t likely that all the rich pockets have
been tapped ; and, apart from probable pockets, there is
a large accumulation of low-grade ores.
* * * *
C.S.A., Cobar, is still probing its interesting
problem of how far the lode extends east and w'est ; and
at time of writing 160 ft. of crosscutting hadn’t thrown
much light on the matter. North drive at 450 ft. level in
the lead ore shows high-grade stuff, rig'ht across the
drive; and as assays give 60 per cent, lead, 3oz. silver,
and 4jdwt. gold, the gross return per ton on present
metal values maybe estimated at £lO 17s. 6d. Of course
it is impossible on present development to estimate ton-
nage, and until the diamond drills throw some light on
the sulphide values it is just as impossible to estimate the
chances of the mine. There certainly is no reserve of ore
to speak of on the top of present crosscut; but if the
drill holes show an uninterrupted rich passage 300 ft.
lower down, and the drive keeps going north in the 60 per
cent, stuff, the C.S.A. will be on the top rung of mines.
• # * *
Decision of Warden C. J. Helm, at Cobar, in
the Hardie-Andrews disputed occupation of 20 acres
mineral land, south of Gardner’s and 0.5. A., opens up a
new phase in the interpretation of N.S.W. Mining Act.
Andrews’ original lease application, which he sold to
Frank Gardner, proved on survey to be in excess 20
acres ; and as Hardie’s Central blocks joined Andrews’
original pegging, the survey left a gap of 20 acres between
Hardie and Andrews. Both Hardie and Andrews re-pegged
(Hardie for the Central Blocks Co., Andrews for himself).
They made application simultaneously. But Warden
Helm decided that until the original lease of Peter
Andrews was granted or refused by the Minister, the land
wasn’t available. So if a man can embrace 100 acres in
his application for 80 acres, and thus exempt the excess
land, he can likewise, while applying for 80 acres, allow
his pegs to wander in a promiscuous sort of way over a
few square miles of country, and lock up the whole en-
closure until such time as the Minister has dealt with the
matter. If Warden Helm is right, the Mining Act is
worse even than people thought it.
• * * *
Boppy Mountain (N.S.W.), which it may be
again necessary to say isn’t Mount Boppy, although with-
in three miles of that top-notch mine, shows surface assays
up to 4oz. silver, and some lead and gold. All of which,
considering the outcrop, points to a big proposition. The
area is 160 acres, held mostly by mining men branded
“ C.S.A." ; and outside capital will shortly be asked for to
sink present shaft to 400 ft. The richness of the C.S.A. at
400 ft. has stamped those figures on the minds of men,
and justly so, for Cobar is essentially a field of depth.
But if surface indications count, Boppy Mountain has
a big score.
• • • *
Royal Oak of Hauraki, a J. Bull concern,
which is spending some of its accumulated shekels on its
North Boppy option (N.S. W.), is likely to hear encourag-
ing remarks from its chairman, George Hardie, who has
just visited the mine. At the 200 ft. the lode is 15ft. wide,
carrying gold in mineral; and in present sinking of main
shaft, which is in country rock, both mineral and galena are
showing. Policy is to sink to 400 ft. and crosscut to the
lode ; and as the rock drills, air compressor and hauling
gear with which the mine is equipped are just about as
neat as you can find, chances are that, by end of
January, manager Harry Smith will know something.
* * • *
Twelve months’ work at Cobar Gold Mines
(N.S.W.)—the Bull-owned show which has been sitting
on a nest-egg for a couple of years, waiting for something
to turn up—resulted in a profit of £2456. This was a
miserable result, seeing that, besides 18,418 tons of ore,
15,191 tons of tailings and 8824 tons of slimes were used
up. There still remained £68,000 cash in hand, which is
practically the whole of the profit made out of the
oxidised ores in the mine. Chairman M'Donald told the
shareholders at the annual meeting that they could get
“ some idea of the immensity of our lode ’ by reflecting
that between 216 ft. (where the sulphides start)
and the 316 ft. level “we are likely to have opened
up 176,000 tons of payable ore, or, say, over half
the total tonnage crushed with the 100-stamp null
since commencing operations. (Hear, hear.)” The fre-
quent occurrence of “ hear, hear,” in the reports of these
speeches of chairmen at London mining meetings is very
touching. The gentleman who is alleged to have said
“ Hear, hear,” might much more sensibly have put a
rule-of-three sum to the directors ; “ If you can’t pay any
dividends at all out of 350,000 tons of ore, how much can
vou pay out of half that much ore?” The sooner the
property gets into the hands of “the larger concern
mysteriously mentioned at the meeting the better both
for the shareholders and for Cobar. The ore could be
comfortably handled in connection with the Great Cobar ;
but, worked alone, there isn’t a process in view which will
give good results on account of the siliceous character of
the stuff. As repeatedly said here, the only way to
economically work these Cobar mines is to work them
together ; and Chesney has gone a long way to prove that
already.
V * * *
J. E. Carne, tlie most experienced man on the
field staff of N.S.W. Mines Department, comes in late with
some remarks on Coppabella. Though most of what he
says has been said already, he supplies certain new figures
on which soipe conclusions may be formed. He makes
the width of the Proprietary lode 10ft. 6in., of which
about a third contains most of the galena ; and the
average value of the lode right through is, he says, 9 2 per
cent, lead and 4joz. silver. Taking these figures, we can
work it out that there is £ll9s. 6d. worth of metal in the
ore at the present very high values of metals. Allow
15s. per ton for mining and 4s. 6d. per ton for
milling—both low figures—and £1 is left over to pay
freight, realisation, and returning charges, management,
and development. Seeing that, it is good concentrating
material, the bulk could possibly be reduced to seven
tons of ore to one ton of concentrates, and that would
make a big saving in freight and returning charges. But
even if reduced seven to one, the concentrates, supposing
they saved all the metal, would only contain £7 worth of
metal after paying mining and milling charges; and
freight and returning charges (smelting, &c.) would
absorb the whole of that. If this is the value of
the ore in bulk, it is impossible to see any profit in it.
Compare that value, by the way (£1 19s. 6d. per ton),
with the £ll 11s. sd. per ton gross realised by the first
10-ton lot sent from the mine. Some people might
almost believe that that stuff was carefully picked and
sent to smelters to help the §hare market along a bit.
Something in a small way may perhaps be done
with Coppabella Prop, by following the richer portion
only of the lode ; this, according to assistant-geologist
Carne, runs about per cent, lead and Boz. silver, and
is, say, 3ft. 6in. wide. At present prices that ore is worth
gross about £5 9s. per ton. Probably it could be reduced
in bulk to about one in three, and after paying all ex-
penses (£1 2s. 6d. mining and dressing, £2 6s. Bd. cartage
and smelting, &c. —that is, £7 per ton of concentrates—
and £1 to cover losses and to pay management and
other charges) might give a profit of £1 per ton. But
present market values are unusually high, and unless
better silver contents can be got (they are at present
exceedingly low), the outlook is extremely gloomy for any-
thing in the way of continuous work.
Barrier, Wyalong N.S.W.), treated nine tons
at- Cockle Creek for Boz. gold per ton. The crushing was
taken from within a 2ft. channel, in 50ft. of sinking from
the 300 ft. This shows that reef is retaining its good
quality. At Neilds’ the level has been driven south from
the old Lady Grace to the original boundary of Neilds at
a depth of 750 ft. and has failed to show anything as good
as that met with at the 400 ft. The shoots on the Mal ee
Bull line dip to the south, and it is more than likely that
Neilds’ shoot at 400 ft, originally met with atißolte s near
the surface, will be found to merge into the Brilliant
which has now reached a depth of 800 ft. At the True
Blue the reef is being followed down from the .^°® ft ' a
looks permanent. Much stoping is being Provided f or by
running a level at the 800 ft. between the Blue and the
Brilliant. The total distance is 770 ft. and the level is now
in over 600 ft. A smaller proposition raising rich mineral-
ised ore from the 400 ft. is the Keep-Ic-Dark.
• * *
Budgery, which in “cumbo” language is Good,
is a promising gossan show near Hertmdale (N-S-W.),
taken up by a mostlv-Sydney syndicate for exploration
purposes. The syndicate finds £lOOO ; and as there is
already some development work done, and assays give
gold, silver and lead, and the mine is in the Oobar
mineral belt of country, Budgery at least deserves this
much attention.
* * * *
Jews and Gentiles are pegging out everything
that looks like tin around Emmaville (N.S.W.). But all
of them seem to have their eyes on the share market, and
discuss prospects of “a float” —not P r ° s P® cts C *I V T
dends. Some miners approached an agent the other day
for work. “No hope,” he told them ; “ ours isn t a work-
ing syndicate.” But (vide Stinking Fish literature) labor
conditions are the curse of the mining industry.
During October, the profits and losses of the
chief W. A. mines were as under -.—Profits : Oroya £41,000,
Fingall £33,200, Ivanhoe £23,500, Horseshoe £22,500,
Boulder £21,900, Kalgurli £14,560, Gwalia £10,500, Per-
severance £9950, Associated Northern £9870, Associated
£B7OO, South Kalgurli £5930, L.V. Consols £3340 Bellevue
£2200, Golden Pole £4560, Hainault £2070, North leather
£l6OO, Ida H. £l4OO, Bed Hill £B2O, Cumberland £7OO,
Merton’s £690, Cosmopolitan £lO7O, E.M. Ud. £640, Gwalia
Consols £630, Hannan’s Star £420, Burbanks Birthday
Gift £2O, Westralia Mt. Morgans £6O. Losses: Princess
Koval £lOBO, Lancefield £lB2O, W.F. Main Beefs £2OOO,
Vivien £550, Golden Bidge £4OO. Most of these results do
not include London expenses and depreciation, and some
do not even include development. Ivanhoe includes all
charges. , » »
Perseverance, Iv'ilgoorl io, has estimated its ore
reserves (Sept. 30) at 287,000 tons, worth lOJdwt. This
means 20 months’ supply at the recent rate of treatment.
This is not very gaudy ; but, then, on December 31st
last, the reserves were estimated at 110,700 tons only, and
since then about 130,000 tons have been treated, so that
just over 300,000 tons of ore has been developed meantime,
most of it since Klug took charge. Costs for October
panned out at 365. sd. as against 435. 9d. last year.
Manager Klug expects, to reduce costs still more after
alterations to plant are completed. Valuing ore reserves
at 425., there is a profit of 6s. per ton, or say £76,100, in
sight. In addition to reserves stated, there are also
176,000 tons worth 6dwt., or say 245. per ton gross.
But these latter are worthless by present mode of treat-
ment. The fringe of the lode found at 1245 ft., near the
boundary, by the Associated, has been cut in the cross-
cut from 1100 ft. Discovery of this lode should alter the
future of the mine.
* * • *
Hainault, Kalgoorlie, is in a strong position, as
co. has 205,000 tons of SJdwt. ore in sight, practically four
years’ reserves, and, at present costs, there is Sin apparent
profit of 9s. per ton, or, say, £90,000. Mine is being very
economically managed by Frank Moss, and, although a
low-grade proposition for W.A., is being very successfully
worked. The deepest level is only 750 ft. ; but there is no
great need to push ahead, as mine has a bigger ore reserve
in proportion to treatment plant than any mine on the
fields, bar Vivien, which has merely a 10-head mill.
Karridale, Burtville (W.A.), has just cleaned up
another 156 tons for 11200 z., bringing up the total from
the mine to 1656 tons for 4,9200 z. The Kevenue,
Meekathara, has treated 3icwt. for 8690 z. The total from
this mine is 15 tons scwt. for 22590 z. But in both districts
the reefs are too small for big co.’s to tackle.
• • * •
Westralia Mt. Morgans has closed, and will be
closed for three or four months at least.- Bad water is
now given as the excuse, but the excuse is worse than
the water. Development was utterly neglected, and
what manager Bob Nicholson, of Ivanhoe, predicted on
his visit has come to pass. . At the end of June Nicholson
estimated that there were 34,800 tons of Bidwt. ore in
sight, and even that moderate estimate proves to have
been exaggerated. The final crushing panned out 3800
tons for 10840 z., or 245. 2d. per ton. This, according to
A. E. Morgans, leaves a profit ,of 4d. per ton, or £6O.
Last year’s costs panned out at about 405., when the full
60-head mill was running full time ; and it is practically
certain that 235. lOd. cannot cover present costs. Some
350 men have been put off, and practically the town of
Morgans is dead.
*■ * * *
As reported on November 30, Lancefield,
Laverton (W. A.), has closed down, the arsenical
ore at 300 ft. not being amenable to ordinary treat-
ment. During October 6080 tons yielded 16s. sd.
per ton. Costs were 225. 5d., leaving a loss of 65., or
£lB2O. Mine will be closed down for some months till a
roasting plant is installed. This will mean a big expen-
diture in new plant. 8., M. and Co. reckon the mine can
be placed on a payable basis, but it seems somewhat
doubtful, as, in addition to the ore being low grade,
timber in the neighborhood is very scarce.
The surface and underground staff of Golden
Pole (VV.A.) has been changed, and D. Nicholson, brother
of Bob of the Ivanhoe, is now in charge. As mine is a
ticklish one to work, such a complete sweep is risky.
.** * *
Pin Gin (W.A.) is a district well known 10 years
ago, but deserted till lately. In the old days a 5-head
mill was erected, but was dismantled before doing any
work. As people’s ideas have since been modified, the
ground has all been re-pegged and a lot of prospecting is
being done. Government has erected a 10-head battery,
and results so far have been satisfactory. The best return
has come from the Anglo-Saxon, which yielded 3190 z.,
from 50 tons. But as prospectors are limited to 50-ton
parcels till all have had a turn, it is safe to presume that
the ore was picked.
Proposed by Westralian Government to lay 30
miles of tramway from Bavensthorpe copper fields to
Hopetoun on the coast, and as a State smelter is at work
on ore purchased by the State, the project is likely to
materialise. The new Assembly is strong on the develop-
ment of the mining industry ; the Estimates for this year
will disclose a big increase in Mines Department expendi-
ture. But a strong feeling prevails that much money is
being wasted. Half-a-dozen worn-out fields are buttered
up at enormous expense ; each has a warden (at £7OO or
so a year), mining registrar, mines inspector, and other
highly-salaried officials. Fifty thousand pounds saved
this way and spent on the encouragement of prospecting
would give the industry a much-needed lift.
* * * *
Bendigo Stock Exchange the other day, being
in contemplative mood, began to see that the centre of
the hub was not in the Golden Square. Therefore, it
agreed to ask the managers of important mines to report
developments at Melbourne and Bendigo simultaneously.
This burst of generosity lasted exactly 48 hours. Then
arose a wail of “ Bendigo for the Bendigo Stock
Exchange ” —a cry as poignant as any lamenta-
tion ever uttered by King Solomon. As the
cry of the timid increased in volume, the courage
of those who saw that Bendigo would benefit if it threw
parochialism on one side frizzled up, and so the Stock
Exchange rescinded the resolution it had passed
a few days earlier. It was a painfully retrograde
action —an action as much against the best in-
terests of Bendigo as would be the return to State
parochialism threatened by Barren joey Carruthers*
The Stock Exchange of Bendigo now simply claims
early information, which may enable its members to
get ahead of the public in distant parts. Yet shareholders
are entitled to equality of news whether they live in Mel-
bourne, Sydney, or Timbuctoo. It is a poor sort of
spirit that would begrudge this, even if is it not a right
established by law. Yet the members of the Bendigo
Stock Exchange have stamped themselves as being
unwilling to share with the Melbourne Stock Exchange
(and through it the public) prompt details of impor-
tant news from mines. The reason may be to keep the
business arising from Bendigo mines in Bendigo. To do
this is impossible if shares can be purchased by outsiders
who prefer to deal in Melbourne or Sydney or Adelaide.
And as the members of the Bendigo Stock Exchange are
well aware of that fact, they have now to show that t hey
can escape the other horn of the dilemma —viz., that they
want early news, so that they may get in ahead of the
other fellow.
* * *
Cathcart Proprietary, Ararat (Vic.), is an
alluvial mine with an electric plant and a fair field of
wash; but its board has still to pad the hoof if it wishes
the co. to enter the select realm of dividend payers. A
great opportunity occurred a few weeks back to put
Spring Hill Leads'Browne in charge. But while he waited
in the ante-chamber the local people stirred up in
the inner chamber. So Browne drifted off to find a
haven at the Great Northern Extended Consols, Ruther-
glen, which show needed fresh blood as much as the
Cathcart board does. Now the Cathcart manager has
gone, and, having missed Browne, the directors have to
scratch about for an alluvial man at a time when good
alluvial miners are not plentiful. The mine itself needs a
lot of handling. The rim of wash is narrow as far as
proved, water is heavy, and there isn’t the gold there
that ardent Araratites would believe.
* ♦ • *
Long Tunnel, Walhalla (Vic.), demands prompt
attention from shareholders if they wish to avert a double
slump in share values and in output. Co. was reorganised
to work the north-west ground, and Grayson’s incline
shaft was sunk to enable that ground to be reached. But
the extension of the shoot of stone from the Extended
mine led the directors to go south. Luck waited on
them, and they cut stone which proved to be suffi-
ciently profitable to stop calls, and to put some
funds in hand. But all progressive work was stopped
to root out this end of the show. Most folk see
the end of the stone within sight, but the Melbourne
directors apparently have a tin film before their eyes, for
they fail to appreciate the gravity of the situation, lhe
pumps ought to be up, the shaft ought to be going down,
and the battery ought to be undergoing re-modelling.
But since the spasm of energy which led to the sinking of
Grayson’s shaft passed, the board has been content to
draw fees and to find an excuse for not publishing the
amalgam yields. As things go, there is little more chance
of divs. than there is of the directors risking their necks
on the Walhalla road in monthly visits to the mine.
• * * *
Another of the Age mining fledglings has made
a feeble flutter. This is a forty or fifty-year old thing
near Kyneton, about which there was a hoary legend that
the old owners left ounce stone at the bottom before they
were beaten out by the water. This was the sort of yarn
that fired the imagination over the New Yorkshire, at
Tarnagulla, and it is not odd that the result
should have been the same in both cases, the
truth being that the old generation of miners
knew quite as well as the moderns how to make ounce
dirt pay. Eliza Hill’s first yield was about 3dwt. per ton.
Now.some underhand stoping has given dirt worth 7dwt.
This is a fair rate of progression, if it could only be main-
tained. Underhand stoping, however, is expensive, and
it looks as though the co. must sink the shaft further and
make calls to pay costs. The Syme crowd can afford to
lose its money, but some of the strong backers of the
mine are less wealthy, and quite as deserving.
* * * *
The tribute question has cropped up again at
Ballarat over the Sebastopol Plateau No. 1. The show
has paid £9600 in divs. at a cost of £70,000 in calls to
shareholders. Western district folk have been good
backers of the mine of late years, but even they, like
Lansell, have sickened of Ballarat. So it comes to this
that if work is to be resumed, the Sebastopol Proprietary,
which owns the lease, must forego rent and cut down the
absurd 5 per cent, royalty, or have the mine thrown on
its hands. This latter would be the best thing that could
happen, for then the owners would have to work or
forfeit. _ «
* * *
The evidence given by miners before the Vic*
Coal Mines Commission makes interesting reading.
Witnesses employed before and after the lockout which
broke up the union, state that before being given employ-
ment under existing conditions they had to sign an under-
taking that they would not join a union. Further, they
said, the manager of one mine told them that,
unless they bought a house and land from the co.,
they would not be given a job. One man swore
that a petition presented to Parliament bearing
his alleged signature was not signed by him at all.
The strangest feature of all is the way weights have fallen
off.' Under union conditions, the men had a weigher of
their own to check the weights of each skip of coal as it
left the mine, and in those days skips went from lOcwt.
to 12cwt. each. Since the union was beaten check-
weighers have been abolished, and the men have .trust
to the honor of the co. for the correctness of the weights,
which have mysteriously declined by 4cwt. a skip.
# * * *
Sydney inventor Frank Cotton s latest experi-
ments with his liquid-fuel furnace have been on low-grade
nickel ore from New Caledonia; and some ingots of metal,
now shown at Sydney Exchange, prove that the process
does the work. And if it can smelt nickel ore, it can
smelt just about anything. No direct nickel-smelting
process has hitherto been known—except, perhaps, an
electrical process, and that is too costly to be used in
a commercial way. The New Caledonian ore is exported
either to Freiberg or France, where it passes through five
processes—practically a series of reactions, all expensive,
and all involving more or less loss of metal. One result is
that, though what is known as “commercial nickel
(about 70 per cent, nickel) is worth about Is. 7d. per lb.,
or £l7B per ton, there is no profit in ore under 7 per cent.,
and none below that grade is exported from the mines.
The Australian inventor, who claims to do the trick m
one act, has been working on refractory 5 per cent, stuff,
and the results of the experiments have been closely
watched by agents of New Caledonian mine-owners,
who have hundreds of thousands of tons of this class of
ore, for which hitherto no market has been open.
.... i * * * * *
Discovery of nitrogenous rock at Paratoo
(S.A.), about 200 miles from Adelaide, on the Broken Hill
line, should ■ mean profits for Somebody, and incidentally
set up another Australian industry, if the thing turns out
as good as first reports represent it. Nitrogen is one of
the most expensive of commercial fertilisers ; and the
manures converted from the nitrogenous rock of Chili
have been filling the pockets of U.S. “Nitrate Kings
for a good while now. Scene of the Paratoo find is a rock
five chains in circumference, rising 60ft. above the plain.
Samples sent to Adelaide revealed ammonia, nitrates of
phosphoric acid, and potash. Finders, Thos. Miller and
R. J. Fawcett, have twelve 40-acre blocks.
* * * *
Swamp-oak : Don’t know any buyer of
manganese 0re.... Dolly-pot: Plant would cost about
£2700 delivered.. .Poverty Bay : Present co. was formed
in ’93 to take over the property ; the co. in which you
held shares expired then J.B. : The office is sound
and of good repute ; and its management certainly is not
tricky....Bacltblock : (1) Only fair prospects. (2) No.
In which circumstances the third question probably
needn’t be answered ; but if you still want a name, send
an addressed stamped envelope... .R.T. : How is it that
shares which cost you £ll 18s. 6d., and on which you
have paid £6 in calls, are now only recognised as 10s.
paid ? Well, a number of highly-respectable gentlemen
whom you and your fellow shareholders appointed to
manage your affairs borrowed tremendous amounts from
mostly-foreign depositors, and the rush of loans gave
things fictitious values, and you lent other people’s money
on those fictitious values ; then, when people began to
think, the bubble burst, and you didn’t have the money
to: pay back, so the people whose money your highly-
respectable directors had taken and misapplied took the
greater part of your share-money. That is the worst of
borrowing—you have to pay back.
• • * *
One of the big Melbourne drapery firms adver-
tised the other day for a clerk for the'parcels’ room—a
poor billet, but permanent. Seventy or more applicants,
mostly well-dressed, stared hopelessly at one another
whilst the advertiser was picking his man, and many of
the disappointed ones looked as though they would gladly
be on the land if they could get there.
Adelaide Register, of Nov. 23, on a basis
nine columns of reports from all over S.A., makes a pr&O)
harvest estimate of the State’s wheat-crop at 8J bushels'*
per acre, with an aggregate of close on 15,000,000 bushels.
This would allow about 305,000 tons available for export,
as against 275,000 tons in the past season.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach's Waverley Brewery, Agents.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE i n steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
«.rny!gj
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH.
WE HAVE THE BEST
and LATEST MACHINERY
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
Aboriginalities.
“ Wurrym”: Sa-ay, don’t be too hard on
Westralia. 8., 9th Nov., says we can’t grow
enough vegetables for our own use. In Perth and
Fremantle, at any rate, vegetables (barring as-
paragus and celery) are cheaper than and equal to
those I’ve met in Victoria, the cabbage State. Of
course, the outback prospector and distant mining
camps go short of vegetables, but any decent-sized
town has its vegetable supply. Fruit of some
sorts will soon be a drug, and the apple export
trade will start. Grapes—well, I like Roma Black
Mamburgs better, but I’ve never seen finer
muscats, or Princes, or Wortley Halls than one
gets for 3d. and 4d. a lb. in season, while the
Darling Range strawberry is getting a name for
size and flavor, and is sold at fid. to Is. a box in
season.
“ S.S.” : “ Cat ” M‘Cart is the king of a
thousand cats. He is a hatter living on a small
selection at the foot of Ham’s Head, near
Willynilly, Gippsland. M ‘Cart’s hut is a chimney-
less, primitive structure of stringy bark, and his
clearing is just about large enough for himself and
four goats. The thousand cats live anywhere, but
M‘Cart’s hut is their head centre, and they
frequently gather there to jubilate, on which
occasion Pandemonium and a Chinese opera are
peace compared with the vicinity of the home of
“Cat” M‘Cart. M'Cart is an enthusiastic
collector of cats, and while other selectors on and
about the Ram’s Head are organising crusades
against cats, Mac encourages them to increase
and multiply. About a year ago M‘Cart fell ill in
his lonely hut, and before it occurred to anybody to
look him up, the desolate hatter had had a night
and day of picturesque horror such as few men
have enjoyed this side Gehenna. About ten of
his cats were shut up in the hut with him, and
when Mac realised that it would be well to
liberate them he was either too weak or too
frightened to move. His half-wild tabbies had
taken to perching on his bunk and glaring at him
with awful, famished eyes as if he were meat, and
he understood quite well that when he became un-
able to help himself the cats would help themselves.
A fight ensued. Every time Mac brought his head
from under the rug the cats attacked, and twice he
was awakened by feeling their teeth in him. After
that he didn t dare to go to sleep. It was an
emaciated collector of cats that the adjacent
selectors discovered in Mac’s hut when they
called to inquire, and he was in hospital for some
time after. When he returned home he collected
his cats again.
* * * *
“David Richards” : The evil policy of
leasing stock routes is making its consequences
disastrously felt in the out-back of N.S.W. at
present. Whilst all along the route, on each side,
private land (C.P., C.L., station, or other) is yet
well grassed, the routes are practically bare of
anything suggestive of the vegetable kingdom,
except trees ; and, in the ease of buddlia, white-
wood, rosewood, beefwood, myall, belar, and other
edible sorts, even they have been either felled or
lopped within recent times. The consequence is
that hungry hordes of jumbucks and cattle con-
tinually gaze at the arid breast of Mother Earth,
and moan with the emptiness of their Little
Marys, while the bloated individual who has got
good grass and plenty of sheep in these hard
times, and can atford to pay £llOOO to land agents,
smiles up his sleeve, and chuckles at the thought
of how lie has robbed the stock routes. Where is
the sense in setting apart a tract of land as a stock
route, and then letting station sheep eat it as bare
as a gallows ? Ask of the land agents, ye hunger-
stricken animals 1
* * .* •
Queensland’s prickly pear is now esti-
ma ed to have full charge of 4,000,000 acres of
territory. An expert named Tryon has been in-
structed to seek some parasite that will consume
this 6250 solid square miles of pear, but on
appearances he might as well .look for a fungus
that would eat up 6250 square miles of crowbars.
If all the Submerged Tenth in England surrounded
the pear and walloped it with axes, it looks
healthy enough to survive. The rabbit, the pear
and Cohen hold a joint mortgage on the land part
of Queensland, and the water hyacinth promises
to monopolise its streams. These pests will be
there when Tozer is dead and forgotten.
* * * *
“Republican ” : I don’t remember having
seen the following true Palmer River yarn in
print as told me by “ Truthful ” :
I was just back from Cooktown, dead stiff, at the time
when Chows were dying- like sheep on the Palmer, and
the Government was giving a fiver a corpse to anyone
who found and buried one. I sees two Chows sinking a
paddock on the terrace below me camp, one bailing, the
other digging. I goes up to the warden and says, “ Mr.
St. George, there’s two of those yellow coves dead down
there in the crick.” “ Indeed, James,” says he. “Ah,
will you see that they’re buried ?” he says. An’ I goes
down an’ flattens ’em both out with my long-handled
shovel, an’ throws a few shovels of muck on top of ’em,
an’ comes back and gets me ten lovely quid.
THE BODIES, METHOD OF RABBIT EXTERMINATION.
The grassed side of the fence is Mr. Rodier's run where his method has been applied. The
other side represents the normal state of the country.
On one of the stations far west of Towns-
ville (Q.), close to the Edge, the manager about a
week ago found hundreds of snakes dead around a
dry water-hole. A tract where snakes cannot exist
must be even worse than Gehenna, where the
Worm that Dieth Not was looking splendid the
last time he was heard of.
•.* » *
The Swiss village of Zofingen, in the
Canton of Aargau, was lately decorated with flags
in honor of a hen which had laid its thousandth
egg. Five adjacent villages sent deputations,
accompanied by bands, which serenaded the
industrious hen.
* * * »
Bent’s State is so cursed with socialistic
legislation that even the rabbits are leaving the
land and taking to loafing round Melbourne
Crowds of unemployed rabbits can be seen any
morning or evening in the Eitzroy Gardens and in
vacant patches around the suburbs.
LAST RESORT OF THE IMPECUNIOUS.
HUSBAND : “ Not a bite of bread in the house; not a scrap
of meat; the rent a month overdue, and the grocer threatening to summons! What
ever shall we do?"
WIFE (decisively): “ We'll have to take in boarders."
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : A very interesting
and instructive section of nature-study for country
State school teachers to take up in Australia
would be the propagation and careful cultivation
of native fruits and native flowers. I often
wonder how much improvement intelligent culture
would effect in certain of our native fruits, such as
the quandong, the geebung, the Australian cherry,
the brown or she-pine berry, the black or brush
apple, &c., &c. Probably many Australian
flowers and fruits could be improved almost out
of recognition. Anyhow, it’s time we devoted
greater attention to the study of Australian flora
and fauna. In many Australian schools illustra-
tions of native trees, flowers, fruits, and animals
are conspicuous only by their absence, which is
numerous.
* * * *
“D.S.M.”: Waiting, t’other night, at a
dam for a shot at kangaroos, I saw by the bright
moonlight a cat slip gently into the water and
make for some ducks that were floating a little
distance out. Presently the ducks flew away,
except one that was left struggling with the cat.
In about a minute the cat started back to the
bank with the bird in tow. I shot it as it was
polishing its victim off, and made a sufficiently
careful inspection to be able to guarantee that it
was plain twopenny cat, and a very dead wet cat
at that.
“E.H.H.”: The love of a uniform does
not stop at reviews and social functions. Two
cookies, neighbors of mine, whose sons once
belonged to the Bushrangers’ Riflemen, wear the
left-off uniforms to the creamery. Another, whose
brother is on the railways, comes decked out as a
porter, and an ex-Salvationist still sticks to his
guernsey in the cow-yard. If I had a- brother
who was an aide-de-camp, I would wear his left-
off feathered hat while driving the harvester, but
I haven’t any elevated relatives.
“ Ses ” : I once embarked in the fish in-
dustry. It was at Texas, on the Severn River,
while spelling horses. This Darling feeder teems
with black bream and Murray cod, and they bite
so well that we could have supplied Sydney and
Melbourne with fish had facilities for exportation
permitted. The Texas housewife, if short of meat
for dinner, has only to say to the old man, “Just
trot down the bank and get me six bream and a
cod for supper, while I get the pan ready. 1 ' The
old man goes down with his rod and hand line,
and in 10 minutes returns with the required
number. Texas is a great tobacco-growing dis-
trict, though the industry is mostly in the hands
of Chinese. We regretted this, as the Mongolians
could not be induced to barter with us when we
wanted vegetables. Among the few whites out-
side the town we did better. We exchanged fish
for tobacco at the factory, and for beef at the
station. What we could not dispose of imme-
diately we salted, and stacked under a tree
for the mailman, who, the Texas people told
us, bought all he could get at 3d. a pound,
and took a load every week to Stanthorpe and
Goondiwindi. The lady behind the grocery coun-
ter also informed us that we had a monopoly of
the business, as the local anglers were up to their
eyes in tobacco harvesting just then. We were
pleased, and bought a lot of groceries. Pleasure
now became business, and each day we carried to
camp as much fish on a long pole as the two of us
could stagger under. Even then we had once or
twice to tether a cod in the river till morning. It
was hot weather, and the cod, being exceptionally
fat, were hard to cure ; but by the end of the
week we had a great square, stack as high as our
tent. Then we interviewed tfie mailman at the
local pub. “No, he wasn’t taking any more.
The market had dropped ; and, besides, they went
bad on the road this hot weather.” Next morning
we left Texas very early. We also left the fish.
* * yt m
“ Roma ” : South Gippsland (Vic.) is un
doubtedly the home of the tallest snake yarns at
large. There grow luxuriantly fairy tales of tiger-
snakes “ follerm’ a man ’alf-way up a ladder, and
then goin’ back and waiting for ’im at the foot.”
But the champion curdler thisyearisaboutawoman
who, one autumn, was terribly frightened at dis-
covering a tiger-snake coiled at her feet, and who
was only rescued by the skin of her teeth. Then,
during a padded silence, the narrator goes on to
describe how, every autumn since, the woman
sheds her skin, just like a snake, and is quite
unsafe to live with for a week or more.
* * * *
“F.H.R.”: The “fust” set had just
finished pretty roughly, owing to two of the lads
(who couldn’t get partners) “bucking” into the
last figure—the stockyards. We were standing in
groups outside the door, wiping the perspiration
from our arms and heads with various kinds of
handkerchief, when the M.C. came out. “Look
’ere, chaps,” he whispered ; “some of thewimmen
are goin’ crook. One’s goin’ ’ome a’cos it’s too
flamin’ rough. Don’t take any notice er me—l’m
goin’ ter rouse.” Then he went inside and yelled
to all concerned : “Look ’ere, yous blokes; this
ere’s a darnce an’ not a cattle-vard. If yer don’t
like ’ter darnce quiet, yer’d better dashed well
go ’ome.” After that things fairly ’ummed.
PRIVILEGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He had been told that he was not a supporter of the
working class, but nothing gave him greater pleasure
than to see the working man at work. (Laughter.)
Some people would like to hear him sing, but he was too
hoarse. (Laughter.) It vexed him when people who were
treated well in the State left for other States , and foixot
the place where they had so many privileges. (Cheers.)
Bhxt at Leongatha.
In far Japan an agfed man, nigh stricken unto death,
Cried to the brown girls round him with anguish in his
breath:
“ Oh bear me to the balcony that looks upon the West
That I may raise a last long gaze to the land I love the
best.”
They bore him as he bade them and they laid him on a
mat,
They gave him tea, and cigarettes, and sake where he
sat.
And as he blew the smoke-rings from his large and
practised mouth—
He sang a song of Bentland—fair Bentland in the South.
“ Girls, I always was a roamer,
A beachcomber—not a homer —
I liked my pipe, my pint, my ship, my girl, my life so
free:
And I’ve wandered through life gaily,
rm Bill Bailey—asked for daily —
And I won’t go back to Bentland far away across the
sea / ”
The agfed man took up his can and drank a mighty drink.
“ If folks could see Bill Bailey now I wonder what they’d
think?
It’s twenty years, and more, ago since first I sailed
away—
I mind it well—in the Queensland Belle bound for Algoa
Bay.”
“Oh tell us, Mister Bailey—for you’re on your dying
mat—
What made you leave your native land, your station, and
all that i ”
“ Well, listen girls—my poor brain whirls—but if lam
not wrong
It was due to too much privilege, and too much comic
song.
It’s a land of politicians—
Governments and Oppositions—
All the members sing like Tietjens, while there’s money to
be spent
On artistic roads and bridges;
And the people’s privileges
Are uncountable—but still I want to dodge the Land of
Bent.
l< If I were able to recite the privileges high
That swarm about the people I should not have time to
die,
But I may briefly hint a few that lend a special tone
To Bentland and its rulers. First, of course, there is the
Loan.
They’ve the privilege of borrowing whenever they’re
inclined,
And Bent of Bentland spends the beans exactly to his
mind ;
They’ve the privilege of paying the interest to the Jews,
And the privilege of applauding Bent and Co.’s financial
views—
Oh, I tell 3'ou they are happy—
Bent’s a great and wondrous chappie—
He is always gay and cheerful—he’s a second Sunny Jim.
He’s a perfect revelation
When he shouts before the nation—
That ‘of all the lands Australia’s the land of lands for
him !’
The other privileges that just make the place a Heaven
Are absolutely numberless. I’ll give you six or seven ;
There’s the privilege of walking if you’ve got no horse to
ride;
There’s the privilege of talking, though you may be put
outside;
There’s the privilege of applying for a farm you never
get;
There’s the privilege of possessing Sunday thirsts you
may not wet;
There’s the privilege of keeping what you never need to
give;
There’s the privilege of dying if you do not wish to
live 1
Ah, there’s no land quite so pleasant
For the millionaire or peasant;
Even good old Walter Besant would have said so, had he
know r n it 1
When the politicians stump it
You can hear ’em sound the trumpet
Of its praises so distinctly that a Gabriel might have
blown it 1
“ But I’m dying; yes, I’m dying here in Nippon, on a
mat;
And I feel I left my country like a miserable rat—
But the songs were too much for me, and the privileges
used
To annoy me—for I didn’t value them— and so I cruised
Lound the world to find a country where no privileges
were,
And I found the Yoshiwara, and I didn’t want to stir.
It’s my ill-grained, stupid nature, I suppose, but I’m
content,
And this Nippon suits me better than the Paradise of
Bent.
Girls, I always was a ranger—
And a stranger—seeking danger—
And I had no ear for music, and I didn’t like to see
All those privileges splendid
(Which in Bentland are extended
To the people) simply wasted on a thankless cuss like me.
VIC.
O. C. CABOT.


Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & "WHOLESOME SPIRIT,
pg- Buy Whole Bottles. W
XMAS
(Soods
Are pouring in
in Rich Profusion.
Many Lines Entirely
New to Sydney.
Other Goods of En-
tirely New Designs.
Solid Silver Ring
Case, 5s 6d.
Silver-mounted Pin
Bottle, Plain Glass,
Is (id.
The one predominant feature appears,
too, lowness of price—
This we judge to be the outcome of
the late great depression of business in England.
Bridge Oases, Silver-mounted, with Cards,
17s 6d, 255, 29s 6d.
Silver-mounted Markers, 17s 6d, 225, 265.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“Elmore” on another sort of “drunks
luck :
Sandy Flat was having'a church bazaar as Jack Cross
and John Snow came in from the sawmill with a camel s
thirst and a seven months’ cheque to quench it with.
After lubricating they struck the bazaar, and started in
to buy whole hooks of tickets from the girls who smiled
on them. That bazaar was a howling success.
A week or so later Jack and John had got from the
best parlor to the wood-heap, and, with swags rolled,
were arguing which of them should tap the sour publican
for a bottle, when a young man came along- and sheepishly
remarked that he and his girl were going to get married,
and how much would Cross take for the bed. Jack care-
fully felt the log he was sitting on, and shivered lie
reckoned he was getting ’em all right. Then a brig it
bush girl hove in sight, and called Bill away. And the
set of toilet ware, if it’ll go cheap,” he said when he came
back. “ I’ve got ’em, I’ve got ’em ! gasped Jack. Oh,
no!” said the maid, “ everything is up at the hall jet,
but they want you to take them away. John gave a
shout of joy, tore the straps off his swag, and thiew
things nine different ways at once. In our good
clobber,” hejyelled ; “ the blanky bazaar tickets.
A quarter of an hour later a hand-cart pulled bj John
and Jack, and pushed behind by the prospective bride and
groom, passed a startled and disappointed publican, it
was loaded with a bed, toilet-ware, four Pictures. and
seven cushions, and it pulled up at the rival pu •>
it realised a wedding, £l6, and two separate attacks
of D.T.’s.
AUSTRALIA, PAST AND FUTURE.
“N.": On the rare occasions when he is
sufficiently friendly with hard work to toil in a
shearing-shed, the tobacco-and-match-cadging city
hoodlum is a thorn in the flesh of the bushman.
I remember the ringer at Murrumbidgee, whose
ear had been severely lacerated by the pests, pre-
senting one of them with a full dozen boxes of
matches on the off-chance of insulting him, but
shortly afterwards he came up for another dose,
several doses in fact, and as they were mvariably
forthcoming the ringer was hailed as “Blessed,
or “Boshter,” or something of the sort, until the
cut-out Then, when the cadger found about
lOdoz. matches debited to him in the store account,
the ringer’s name was mostly “Blanky.
LIKE ONE THAT ON A LONESOME
ROAD
DOTH WALK IN CEAR AND DREAD.
AND HAVINC ONCE TURNED ROUND
WALKS ON
AND TURNS NO MORE HIS HEAD'
BECAUSE HE KNOWS A ƑRICHTFUL
FIEND
DOTH CLOSE BEHIND HIM
TREAD.'
COLERIDCE
“Larry” : This story from the Murchison
(W A ) illustrates the self -reliant and independent
spirit' of the men of the West. Three mates
were camped for a few days. One evening a
cyclist rode along and described minutely a couple
of horses he had seen many miles back, making
down country. One of the men recognised them
as his. “I reckon I’ll go after them he re-
marked. He knew they were making for the
station where they were bred, 500 mhes away,
vet he just shouldered his swag, and slouched off
into the darkness with a casual s long. Ihe
others smoked in silence for some tune, then one
said “He might have arst fer a horse. Dunno
—w’d vou ? ” “ No.” They didn t offer a horse,
for thev reckoned he was able to look after his
own affairs, yet they would willingly have given
him one, although possibly he might have fallen
a few points in their esteem had he arst lor it.
* * * *
The devastating St. John’s wort was im-
ported by a Herman woman, in Bright, Victoria,
Ln- ago! for its purely imaginary medicinal
Qualities. From her bit of a garden it gradually
spread and is a most terrific nuisance, comparable
to the phylloxera. The St. John’s wort has de-
stroyed Whole gardens and deadly to e!ery-
being voracious suckers, and deadly to every
thing around. t *
“ Werrimee ” : Every year
resolutions are made in out-camps
and huts to keep on the strict
Q T ” for 12 months, and then go
down and seethe Melbourne Cup,
the Mecca of the bushman. Ihe
“resolutions” are often well
carried out till the long ride down
begins, and the wayside pubs start
a-callin’. They are hard places
to negotiate. One man tells of
two abortive trips. The first
time he got as far as Browns
pub, ten miles from his starting
point, and went back a week
later with a sore head. The next
time he was fitted out with a pair
of good horses, and was resolved
to camp out every night and
give all the pubs a wide berth.
But his hack lost a shoe when
nearing the first town and as it
was tenderfooted he had to make
a call at the blacksmith s. While
the latter was putting the shoe
on, an old chum strolled m and
insisted on his going to the pub
to have just one—which wouldn t
hurt him. He had it, and
forgot all about the Cup. -two
weeks afterwards he carried his
swag back to the station. An-
other man, before starting the
first time, sent his money down
to the bank. He pulled up at a
pub to have “just one nip, and
there being convivial company
present he had several ; and thereafter the pub-
lican supplied him with blank cheques hll the
limit of his account was reached. On the^nex
occasion he left his money at the station
with instructions to the boss to send it along
when he wrote for it. He wrote for it three
days after, and the only races he saw were run by
blue snakes and green goannas throughthemuiga
He made a third attempt, and again left; humonej
with the boss, with strict injunctions not to send
it* \to him no matter how he asked, until lie
received a’letter direct from Melbourne e
publican had a friend named Jones m Melbourne.
The letter was sent enclosed to Jones, Posted
it back to the station manager, pum when J ones
received the letter containing the cheque he re
turned it to the publican, and—there you are .
Breathless item from “On the Land ” in
S.M. Herald
LAND PEST.
LiSMORE.-Another hare has been seen on Boorie Creek,
it being the second seen here within the last fortnight.
Which is reminiscent of the panic-stricken citizen
in plague time who reported that he nearly saw a
rat.
“O’F.”: One sees an occasional quaint
name on the title-page of the dusty old theologi-
cal volume that nobody seems inclined to buy.
Noticed in a secondhand book shop the other day
the works of “ the Right Reverend Father in God,
Offspring Blackall, D.D., late Lord Bishop of
Exeter.” Then there is the Rev. Increase
Mather’s “ Remarkable Providences.” How is it
that no mother in Australia now names her child
Offspring, or Increase, or Birthrate ? Instead, she
confers on him some name like Montressor
Vyvyanne, which the other boys soon change to
Skinny or Blinker.
“ Itan ” from Queensland :
The Bananaland Labor party is a disrupted institution.
The Socialism-in-our-Time members—six all told—are the
bitterest foes the Parliamentary Labor party now has.
The whirling- Joe Lesina—mostly an Ishmaelite who is
against everybody and doesn’t mind in the least if every-
body is against him—leads this confused company in no
definite direction, but in a very angry spirit. At next
election at least 15 Labor members who refused to sign
the Convention platform will be opposed by the Trades
Hall, and the fight will be a memorable one, as most
family feuds are. The Morganites and Kidston’s followers
have a good chance all the same of getting back as
numerically strong as they are now, if not stronger.
Their chief plank will be that Queensland must
be honest and pav its way. During the past few weeks
the Socialism-in-our-Time party has been advocating a
renewal of the borrowing policy, in which respect it joins
hands with Philp and Leahy. Therefore, the election
seems likely to be a scrap between Honesty-ln-our-Time
and Socialism-in-our-Time with the remnant of the Philp
party supplying a side show and calling for the Biggest
Possible Drunk in Our Time.
Front Brisbane :
Chief Protector of Q. Aborigines, Both, has flat
tened out his detractors. A few weeks ago a number of
members vigorously attacked the Protector and hurled
serious charges at him in large quantities. The Protector s
categorical reply is refreshing. As for a petition pre-
sented by Hargreaves, M.L.A., Both narrows down the
affair to the point that “the onus of proving that the
member was innocent of substituting: one petition for
another—the one hawked and the other presented to the
House—rests with himself.” Hargreaves read extracts
from a letter purporting to have been written by
“B. J. Bennett,” but inquiry has failed to prove
that there is such a man. So the horrible charges
contained in that document have fallen flat. Inves-
tigations by the Under-Secretary for Lands prove
that the meetings held in the North were mostly en-
gineered by one large firm of boss storekeepers, who had
an axe to grind on behalf of the station managers, hit
hard by the Protector’s interference with their free em-
ployment of the blacks. “It was all because of my
interference with a vested interest in flesh and blood,
says the doctor in defence. Joe Lesina’s attack, to the
effect that Both sold to the Sydney Museum 3000 curios
which were State property, looked the blackest case of
the lot, for Joe read a telegram, purporting to have been
received from the Curator, saying that the sale was
effected. Both replied by reading a letter from the
Museum trustees declaring that there had been no such
sale.
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used ; has 100 different
uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
DEAD ISLAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s an island dead and dreary, filled with spooks and
t*. -dace of the sombre Tasman
TherTcLmp ghosts of Runted stature run the Island’s
in a le p“y legends haunted, called the House of
AndWwhifi of petrifaction rises from that spooky fac
And the atmosphere’s the color of a large, V
There is neither night nor day there—ever} ln g s
and grey there, ,
And the sluggard never goeth to take lessons from the
ant.
Eighteen spectres, squat and sullen, hold a monstious
black tarpaulin f
’Twixt that drear and slumbrous island and the g
better things ; , . *
There the V.D.L. Co. battens, like a vampire ba
fattens, . „ , ,
While it lulls its restless victim with its coffin-color ■
wings.
There earth’s oldest rag is printed, and its policy was
minted T
In the days when politicians used to lurk way up a
tree ; -it
Laudanum is used for ink there, and no writer dares to
think there —
Thinking’s banned and thought is banished from the
Hobart Mercury.
On the mainland here we hustle, using brain and using
muscle,
But across the Straits they slumber while the tombstones
run the show ;
There the landed spooks and spectres run things for the
live electors,
And it isn’t any wonder that their blood runs mighty
slow.
All is dull and dead and damp there, hut the rustling
spooks still camp there,
For they own the buried island and they hold the deeds
in fee;
It is in the grip of Dobson, and the moist wind sadly sobs
°n
Through the ribs of the departed, in the House of-Dodery.
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on 3IS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned, unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.Y.E. ; Well intended, but ill executed
D.F.McC.: Has some grace and picturesqueness, but has
too many weak spots... .J.D.D. : Story quite out of our
line. Verse insignificant... .The Waster: That Hooley
yarn is based on an old joke. It was fitted on once to
Ernest Terah Hooley—the man who gave St. Paul’s the
Hooley Communion outfit in solid g01d... .Bert: “In the
Still Night” just below the rim of acceptance Red
Diamond : “ When Thou Art Gone ” is a thing that no
wise paper would publish. It would only aggravate the
goneness Carona : Too rugged Wagstaff : Nowa-
days, this column is used almost entirely for rejections.
It saves space. The accepted writer of story or verse gets
his intimation otherwise. The man whose pars are
accepted is expected to notice them in print and
to collect from Tub Bulletin accountant Charles
C. : Your verses were better in the days when they
were shorter and contained less elaborate descr.pdon....
PKC. • Hardly enough in it... .E.M.R. : Flat and un-
distinguished... .Robt. D. : Too long, and very unequal.
Gil lloden : Not far short of the mark W.P.B. :
(1) All moths are developed from caterpillars, and lay
eggs, which in turn produce ’pillars. (2) It is the small
domestic moth’s larvse that injure clothes.. .. K.B. : Why
send us an unprintable indecency all the way from Ger-
many ? B.H.F. : Verses are in the memorial edition of
John Farrell’s poems, recently published. A cheaper
edition of Farrell will be presently issued Jack
Thomas: The unpleasantness of the incident outweighs
its comicality.... Aurum : You’re only plumbum.... L. :
Hardly above mediocrity.. ..Lavanasi : Too unpractised a
hand ' Wyung : Humor too artificial. Have made a
par of the" (alleged) fact... .Malcolm S. : We couldn’t
make any use of it... .Isobel M. : A pleasant descriptive
touch, but hardly enough interest.. . .Gava : The verse
has promise, and the*prose item is spirited, though crude.
Ethelbert : You have ideas, but vour workmanship is
clumsy E.G. : Tiib Bulletin contents are copyright,
and if the management chose to do so, it might stop
thieving from these columns : in one bad case this was
done But occasional acknowledged quotation is not
objected to Nilgo : Too obscure... Z.: No
Hexham : But are you prepared to swear that there are
no British troops in British Guiana or Honduras?....
R.T. : “ Bird song,” with much “ Tra-la-la” in it, declined
DS M : Required more point and vigor in the
telling .Ire : Not absolutely bad, but a long way from
D o od Nell: They don’t get near the mark L.B. :
Too loose and shapeless Hugh S. : “ Practical ” rather
dreary X.Y.Z. : We don’t accept the mere say-so of a
correspondent who doesn’t even give his name and
address. Also an anonymous person shouldn t be so
dashed haughty.... M. A. O’F. : Too long for its interest
and too pronounced in its physiology.... J.G. : Declined
is declined, as too crude, though the idea snot bad....
Oalattie : Not worth print.. .. W.O.C. : It. hasn t any
human significance... .Jordup (or something like that).
Cruelly illegible.... J.C.W. : Too many hackneyed phrases
and stock epithets....T.M. de W : You aren’t exactly a
poet . .Oscar M. : Have read “ the Hurt of the World
and we haven’t a large enough keg of arnica on hand to
do the case any good C.E.G. : “Rotorua has been
improved, but not sufficiently improved... .Sepro:
“ Reflection ” rather dim. Perhaps the silver is worn off
the back of the glass Mrs. E. W: We can give you no
assurance at all as to the reliability of the gentleman.
Probably he is as unreliable as they make them... .Don :
It was “otherwise.” ..Geyser: Verse seems to have
been blown up... .Redspur : Verses about Sheol are too
mild for the subject Wuna: The mildest little poem
of the year ..R.R. : “Sketch” too sketchy; only half
an outline.. George H.: Put your name and address on your
copy or picture, and if you want it returned send the stamp
with it. Nothing is more aggravating then the letter with
the stamp for return which turns up the day after the re-
iected MiS. has gone into the basket... .Fungella : Poor
but honest verses....A.J.W. : Will use as an Abori-
ginally.”. .. .Lupus : One verse from A Wail from Port
Darwin ” shall go in anyhow :
They say, “Let ’em all come, at once;
And posterity ? “Don’t talk; its no use.
While we get kumshaw for the nonce,
Our descendants may go to the deuce.”
...John F. (farmer): A good deal in what you say
E j B ' Conditions attending sale of obsolete British war-
ships are well enough known. The point is that Australia
is charged such a huge rental on what, for war purposes,
is practically valueless. Generally speaking, we have no
use for encyclopedic information with no special apropos.
.Advance Australia i Most of it has been said before ,
and you are somewhat wild in your statements. So far as
is known, there is no clause in the Anglo-Japanese treaty
s-ivino- Japs free immigration rights within the British
Empire.. f.N.B.M. : Hardly crisp enough Frank B :
(1) It was the 1891 Bill that Chief Justice Griffith chiefly
drafted. The adopted Bill was drafted by a committee,
of which Mr. Barton was chairman. (2) Can be had from
this office, post free Is. 2d E.J.M.: Mostly been said be-
fore Verax: Don’t agree with your arguments at a 11....
Cannal: “Moths” is rather laborious humor. Sketch
suggestion old London Punch item... .Drifter : Too
many weak spots... .N.J.H.E. : Thanks ; but it is a mis-
take to take such flabby-minded visionaries seriously....
Carver : Haven’t got time for small municipal grievances.
The Rattler : Of a type of humor that is overdone....
ignoramus : Sent your letter on to an agent who may be
able to do something for you General: Verse not up.
. ...E.A.Y. : Promising for a first attempt. But from
the outside contributor we mostly want facts rather than
arguments. There’s an astonishingly big supply of argu-
ments in this office.... Archdale Parkhill: Your long
story about Trafalgar Bay received. A slab : “ But the
point to be emphasised in the present connection is the
boomering application of these awful facts when we
remember the wonderful industrial and social progress
of the nineteenth century : for is not the very existence
of a ‘ Labor party ’ a living protest against the system
under which this progress has been made possible? Is
not the daily pabulum offered to its followers the eternal
cry that ‘the poor are growing poorer and the rich
richer?’” Is it a puzzle or what? Wbatis a “ boomering
application,” and what has the Labor party and its
daily pabulum ”to do with Trafalgar? W. : You don t
state the case fairly. Why blame the Jew m Russia
because like the Chinaman in Australia, he inhabits a
section of the towns exclusively ? In Russia the Jew
must stick to his Ghetto... .Lypar : Bulletin pays &1 a
column (it’s a very short column) and upwards....
Dawnie : Again, for the millionth time, we can’t acknow-
ledge pars Nimimin: Sorry can’t answer language
puzzles... .Unsuitable :O.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Joel: Picture useless ; joke filthy... .Cyril D.: Drawing
rather out of gear, and joke imperceptible Quinn: It
would take a better picture to carry that alleged joke,
and a much better joke to carry that alleged smudge....
W r . Green: One will do as suggestion Clyde M.O.C. :
Jokes too thin ; drawings show some promise Unsuit-
able : Waggon.


I'lims'teK of Agriculture
1 0o<lr7g n/5 fj ev /
spfertj 0 f
"\)ry ll7O ie, -— ~
Veltlrio crobc, Wlit)' Srv>^ll
,T* %
ToUjer day sendio o j'i/c (i>)cotsym
Were born , all witfjirj fyoMr^
Kivor • - " i *7° ?
Tfe Major' / 0M W’e —+b
be Squelched Conr/e o»7
whafare-'xr
Jou cbaf>s u
Dry farming tass
\ ~ fnmes a beer
Kerr irc
WPeaKm tas jgpp
2s.il his JlB||
su|>f lt**)«hfVy closure 1%
tnoßfins — CV> \|
how enforce. f^rli^ChT^fyV
Prioress " V
S A.y.
— lbe.re
I 'ftjinK Tie II po
$ll riqh'T'tjow
ReV CWf '■Avh ) -tj^ e dotfrirje
<}| Ifje Viraih left
UnwvtA«led iby Stricture. j
" aji/e,
l}ij« Wljole Co&jt cjoWrj
FEDERAL AND OTHER FANCIES.


N.S.W.’S DEFENDER.
Gladiator Carruthers: "Observe me tackle this ferocious animal. I made him myself."


PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R. GENN2RT, 89C. FBQ St. Mar. in, Paris, France
If your muscles ache it may be your blood
—Wolfe’s Schnapps cures rheumatism. If you
need a bracing tonic for general exhaustion.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best in the world,*
A SIMILE AND A MORAL.—“ What
the dustman is to the dwelling in which we live,
that Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of
the human spirit.” Thus writes a well-known
medical writer.*
■ft 7A~"
I'ta
GrO TO ECBLL-
IGOLAND for 11^.tty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Nagels Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
TPovi l , .
i o w “ announces himself a
modified Freetrader, w grandson of Robert Peel,
the whole 1 reetrade hog.
Sydney Corporation, so diligently on the
look-out to welcome distinguished visitors, failed
to notice James Purtell, the Colling wood poet
who made a call in the other dav ’
.
Sturt : Don tbe too hard on Oddie. of
Ballarat. He was the man who said, “How
about Peter Lilor, with all this statue-making to
Victoria, Burns, Moore, and Wallace 1 '” °
-p. r|l , .
-L»r. inomatis, or North Queensland, the
advocate of a Federal Cotton Plantation t) he
worked by Indian coolies, has had his portrait
graciously accepted by King Menelik of Abyssinia,
and is now louder than ever in his cries for colored
’
Barrister Nugent Robertson, of Sydney,
who has been awarded £lOO damages against the
Balmain Ferry Co., for illegal detention on a
wharf, seems to be a much greater success on a
wharf than when he goes to the poll on the anti-
Federal ticket.
Brother Shark i<s buev mahi'nrr Q IG™ L i
In wLi war M J Sy , a big hole
Nick Willis land proceeds. Nick was defend-
ing two cases in Sydney last week, and is still
disgorging freely to “learned friends” m S’Africa,
Gi? d flV ere rUmnn £ SOme weeks a " o ’ and
there are still more in sight.
The central obstruction came from the bunch of members who have come to
be known as “Reid’s squealing dozen.” —AGE.
Dr. James Mitchell, father of “Library”
Mitchell, owed most of his wealth to coal lands
which he acquired at Stockton, near Newcastle.
He lived many years in that rocky part of Sydney
known as Cumberland-street, and the present
Mitchell occupied the house for a time after the
old man’s death.
At 68 years of age, mining speculator
Dowel passed out at Herberton (Q.) last week.
In the eighties, Wm. Springthorpe Dowel repre-
sented Tamworth (or New England) in N.S.
Wales Assembly, and did so for three Parlia-
ments. Then alterations of boundaries, single
seats, and reduction in numbers crowded him out.
The Rodfishers’ Association of N.S.W., a
body responsible for a large number of the current
perjuries about “fishes of that size,” has elected
Justice O’Connor and State Judge Fitzhardinge
to top positions in the committee of management.
But that is not enough ; affidavits must be attached
to the reports, and the fish must be sworn to
before a J.P.
Edward VII. recently paid a visit to Edin-
burgh, of which a Scotch paper thus speaks :
_ Although the Sovereign was only six hours in his Scot-
tish capital, he succeeded during that short time in ap-
pearing in three different suits, with all the accompanying
paraphernalia of royalty.
Perhaps he will go down to history as Edward the
Dresser.
“G. 8.” : Can’t understand the boosting of
Victoria’s Swinburne as a Democrat. Except the
Water Bill, Swinburne hasn’t assisted to give Vic.
anything valuable in legislation; in fact, he has
voted against almost every progressive measure
brought forward. Swinburne may look a Demo-
crat alongside Bent, but that is too low a standard
to test a politician by.
SWEARING OFF.
There are more unemployed in England to-day than in
any Protectionist country in the world, and the prospects
of the coming winter are too shocking to contem-
plate.—Daily Paper.
J.B.: “I'll give it up this time!"
l a fi e W. S. Dowel had for some years
Levien as a colleague in the representation of
Tamworth (N.S.W.). No two men in politics
were more unlike than this pair ; Dowel, a stone-
“ a | on l) y trade, was heavy as three loads of bricks,
f n '“ dn a y was Partner of Hassall, later Minis-
7ur tor Lands and had a mania for pegging out
r 6 countr y— he could see a possible mine and
fortune in any heap of rocks.
tv j • aji ■ i , „
L)ied at 70, George Marchant,
"b took Australian merinos to California m 1860,
anfl made , tbe terribly adventurous journey
across the plains to New York. The old gen-
tleman was a great horse-breeder, and in his time
a fine cross-country rider. He claimed to have
ridden out a steeplechase on the old Theharton
(Adelaide) course on a horse which he found at
the first fence to be blind 1
Jerry Simpson, of Kansas, is dead. When
G. R. Dibbs visited the U.S. A, he behaved so
unconventionally that the Yanks christened him
the Jerry Simpson of Australia. The nickname
was a fit, for Kansas Jerry wore no socks and
comported himself in the legislative halls as a
man who wanted to live up to that eccentricity ;
but the term clung for a while. Any allusion to
it used to rouse Dibbs to boiling point; but just
then George Republican D. had repudiated his
Republicanism and become a K.C.M.G “to
oblige a lady,” and was trying to look as little like
Simpson of Kansas as he knew how. Jerry, the
Congressman, died of heart disease.
A staggering story of
hunger in the medical man
comes from a Southern
city. A wealthy patient
was attended by Dr. Blank
for about two or three
months ere Death con-
cluded the “case”, and in
consideration, seemingly,
of the fact that his language
to th e doctor had been of ten
disrespectful, the patient
bequeathed him a big
sum. The legacy merely
whetted Blank’s appetite
for the dead man’sguineas.
He sent in a huge claim
for medical attendance on
his departed benefactor,
and the executors, pro-
testing against the charge,
finally appeased the appli-
cant with a cheque for
four figures.
“Elijah” Dowie, it
seems, had a very unsavory
character at Melbourne
Gaol, some 20 years ago,
when he was several times
committed for obstructing the footpath or refusing
to pay his debts. The old humbug— not then so
hairy as now—-was an aggressive apostle, and the
prison authorities held him in particular contempt.
Zimri Sellar, one of the Labor members
for Adelaide, was an apprentice in a provision
store in London sixty odd years ago, and served
groceries to the Duke of Wellington, though he
doesn’t mention whether Wellington called for
his pound of cheese personally or by proxy.
Sellar is continually giving the Assembly an
interesting little scrap of his autobiography.
Captain James Banks, buried at Waverley
(Sydney) last week, had sailed most of the world’s
seas. He and Clarke Russell, the novelist, served
their apprenticeship together on a vessel called La
Hogue. Banks changed from the Dunbar to the
Duncan Dunbar the day before the former started
on the voyage that ended tragically at The Gap,
Sydney Heads.
A son of the late Graham Berry now
figures in the advt. of a patent medicine as “ Son
of Great Statesman Cured by Blank’s Long Pills
for Short People,” or something to that effect.
This should be an encouragement to all patriotic
Australians to serve their country in a public
capacity, and to rear up a stalwart race in order
that they may, by-and-bye, be cured by somebody’s
electric belt, and keep green the old man’s memory
in the printed testimonial.
“S.S.” : Have seen Willie Kelly, of the
motor, in Parliament, and I want to know what
his electorate sees in him, and how it comes to see
it. Willie, during the time I sat and watched
him, behaved like a simpering, giggling johnnie-
boy, and talked with the loathly “ Bwitish ” affec-
tation which alone should induce an Australian
electorate to chase a candidate over the horizon.
I don t know what electorate Wearisome Willie
sits for, but I trust with all my heart that it is
not as bad as he represents it. If I were an elec-
torate, and Wearisome Willie represented me in
that way, I’d sue him for libel.
The man who caused Adelaide gaol to be
known for over 20 years as “ Howell’s Hotel ” has
just passed out, at the age of 73. John Howell
was a coastal trader between Sydney and New-
castle about 1854, but left the sea on being ship-
wrecked for the second time (the first time was in
the Bay of Biscay). Then he found his real voca-
tion in life as a gaoler, and gave up his spare time
to the writing of quite decent verses.
The will of Mars Buckley, of the half-cen-
tury-old Melbourne firm of Buckley and Nunn,
drapers, has been proved at £450,000. The amount
has been left to the sons and daughters of the
testator, with provision for an annuity and the
use of the Buckley mansion and furniture for the
widow. Mars Buckley’s pile did not all come
from chiffons and shop-walking. A big deal in
Bourke-street land during the sixties helped
materially.
A sight in Melbourne of late is provided
by a sleek, smug-looking Papuan native missionary,
dressed largely in his original skin, parading at
the heels of a church lady, who trots him round
for inspection, and evidently derives much grati-
fication from her ownership of the saintly coon.
Why the missionary has been brought from New
Guinea is not explained, but possibly his mission
is to teach political economy to the Women’s
National League.
William Knox, President of Vic. Chamber
of Commerce, and M.H.R. for Kooyong, on the
Union Label: “Mr Chairman, I—e1 —er —beg to
protest. I—er—for one, object. I—er—wish to
enter my strong objection. I—er—must record
my strong protest.” Knox seldom says anything
else. He is constant in protesting. Probably
he will be found protesting when the last trumpet
sounds.
“S.T.S.”: The curious record of S.A.
Bench —only three Judges, and those, for just on
20-years till 1904, the same three—has been com-
memorated in a portrait by George Webb. Ade-
laide’s better-known painters run to landscape
mostly, and Webb is the best local portrait
painter, with the possible exception of the Ham-
bridge sisters, who mostly do miniatures. He
shows the three Judges on the Bench, and has
caught the cold white light-from-above effect of
the Supreme Court well. Bundey’s is a splendid
likeness, Boucaut good, Chief Justice Way only
fair.
Edward Albert Stone, Chief Justice of
Westralia, retires from office early in the year.
He is the son of George Frederick Stone, a former
Attorney-General of Westralia. The Chief Jus-
tice was appointed clerk to the Attorney-General
in 1860, and was called to the Bar in 1865, when
he entered into partnership with Septimus Burt.
He was clerk to the Legislative Council in 1870-74,
and a nominee member of same 1880-82. He was
acting Attorney-General in 1879, Crown Solicitor
in 1882, and a Puisne Judge in 1884. He got the
Chief’s seaton the retirement of Alexander Camp-
bell Onslow.
A. young gentleman named Thomas, who
is vicar or.rector or something of a small township
called Guisborough, in the north of England, has
been chosen as Bishop of Adelaide. The young
parson has only had eight or ten years’ practice as
a parson, and his best billet has been in a place
not the size of any of half-a-dozen Sydney or Mel-
bourne suburbs ; and it doesn’t look as though he
had a third of the experience of scores of Aus-
tralian reverends. But he is English; and so he
gets the Australian billet. Either Australian
reverends are an abominably cantankerous lot,
who would start to break things if one of their
own number were selected for promotion, or the
bosses among them have an amazing idea of the
value of half-a-dozen years’ practice in telling the
English Hodge how to hold himself respectfully
towards his betters.
“ MOTHER! MOTHER!! HELP!!!"
The foreman of the American Trust declares that
within 18 mouths 15,000 more harvesters will be dumped
in Australia.
“No good, my little dear; Britain’s Navy won’t
save you from this."
The ‘ ‘ well-paid public servant ” that Ice-
berg Irvine and Bent used to blather about, dis-
appears steadily from Victoria, chiefly because
outside concerns think him such a valuable acqui-
sition that they offer him more wages. Dr. Howell
quitted being agricultural chemist to Bent and
co. to go to the Mt. Lyell co. Viticultural expert
Burney left for a better-paid private billet. And
now W. E. C. B audinet, an assistant analyst, is
gained by the, same Mt. Lyell co. that enticed
his former chief.
Bourke, whose statue is about to be re-
moved to make room for the new Public Library
in Sydney Domain, was one of the few able men
appointed to a Governorship in Australia. He
stamped out free land grants, burst up the Batman
sham land purchases from the Port Phillip blacks,
and founded and superintended the laying out of
Melbourne. He established religious equality and
set aside the produce of land sales for the en-
couragement of immigration. At that time a
Governor possessed real power, and Bourke seems
to have maintained a high and steady purpose
amid shifty and shady surroundings.
Thomas Caradoc Kerry, who is at present
charged with the appropriation of books and
other unconsidered trifles consigned per his
favor to the islanders of Tristan d’Acunha, is
described by the London papers as an “Australian
Explorer.” Now when did Caradoc Kerry become
either an Australian or an explorer ? If Judas
Iscariot appeared in England just now, he would
probably be described by the press as “An
Australian Police Agent” or a “Melbourne
Informer,” or something of that sort. As a matter
of fact, Kerry doesn’t seem to have appropriated
anything. He was going to Tristan D’Acunha,
and a number of old tabbies of both sexes rushed
his yacht with boxes of cast-off clothing and illus-
trated Scripture tale-books, in which exhortations
to the benighted islanders were arranged in
alphabetical order on the “C. is for Cat ” plan.
This rubbish Kerry is alleged to have heaved over-
board in preference to endangering his life by
offering it to the islanders, and when the fact
leaked out the tabbies started to scratch.
An obscure politician, William Consett
Proctor, went under to cancer in Sydney, last
week. The deceased represented New England
for about a dozen years, having for colleagues at
various times Henry Copeland, James Squire
Farnell, and “ Tiger ’ Inglis. He twice made a
ripple on the surface of things. Once was in 1889
when railway-contractor Proudfoot won £5OO from
him in a Supreme Court suit. The revelations
were unpleasant and Proctor resigned, but was
re-elected. Again in 1878 an unsympathetic
jury ordered him to pay a young lady
of Armidale £GOO for breach of promise.
The reading of letters which had passed
between the parties, retailing all manner
of social secrets, set Armidale by the
ears and caused heart-burnings which it took
years to allay. Proctor's father was a bagman
travelling for a Sydney drapery firm. Prior to
that he had been a policeman in Ireland, and he
it was who, in 1848, arrested William Smith
O’Brien at Clonmel railway-station.
Just possible that some of the trouble in
N.S.W. Railway Commission arises out of the
fact that Chairman Oliver isn’t a trained railway
man, and the other two are, and are so much
hide-bound with prejudice against him that
they can’t see when he is right. Mostly,
it seems, he is right. When Parkes was
fixing up the Railway Commission, with E. M. G.
Eddy as Chairman, in 1888, he had the idea that
the State’s public service ought to be represented
on it, and so he offered Oliver, then Under-Sec.
for Lands, a Comrnissionership. Oliver declined
at first, as railways were off his beat; but when
it was represented to him that what was
wanted was an organiser more than a railway
man, he took it. Fehon was appointed at the
same time ; he had been a railway man in Eng-
land, India, and Victoria, where he was chief
traffic manager, but he had been out of the busi-
ness for some time, dropping his money on a
Western N.S.W. station. Kirkcaldie came in
years later from the staff; shortly after he was
appointed Victoria tried to get him as a Commis-
sioner, and N.S.W. put up his salary to £2OOO to
keep him. The Chairman gets £2500; the other
Commissioner £l5OO.
“ T.D.” : Am only just
beginning to find out that
Australian brush-wielders are
probably just as numerous in
London, proportionately, as
the followers of musical art.
Happened on a nest of studios
in St. John’s Wood, the
other day, and found that
Joe'Wolinski, whose notable
picture on Luke Fild< s lines
created much discussion in
Sydney five or six years back,
was working in one of them.
Next door was young Arthur
Burgess, whose paintings of
battleships, and nautical
things generally, have found
their way into the Royal
Academy. Longstaff was
temporarily in occupation of
Solomon J. Solomon’s studio
just alongside, although his
own is about two minutes’
walk away. Also B. E.
Minns has a cosy little place
a couple of stones’-throw
from Longstaff’s. The pros-
perous Jack is at work on
so large a canvas that it
necessitated a studio bigger
than his own. Wolinski has
also put in a lot of time in
painting a subject which
ought to give him promin-
ence. Minns has been doing
some work to the order of
Colonel Rhodes, the just-
dead brother of the great
S African schemer, who died
leaving so many people not
yet done, and Burgess has
been putting excellent color-
ing into his seas and skies,
and making them an offset against the dull
grey tint with which Britain smears the leviathans
of its first fighting line.
Randolph Bedford has been shaking up
the dry bones of the Queensland Marine Depart-
ment in his recent descriptive articles, and
now various Northern pressmen are foaming at
the pocket because Randolph has been paid £25
by the Morgan Government to do an article
on Queensland coastal scenery. The other
scribes avow that they could write something half
as good for half the fee paid to Randolph the
Reckless, and one man threatens to write his
article on spec, just to show what he is capable
of, and to sign it “ Adolphus Bedstead.”
TO RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old familiar voice we hear
That rises in the city bar.
Above his glass of ginger beer
His latest stories sound afar.
They echo and reverberate
Apace along the Inky Track,
Whose travellers arise elate
To hail the news that “ Bedford’s back”.
We listen to the yarns of gold
Collected on Papua’s shore ;
We revel in the others told
Of crime and cannibals and gore.
The crowd can never get enough,
That fills each inky bivouac,
Of tales of bluster, blood, and bluff,
That circulate when Bedford’s back.
This week he talks Australia to
Some swagger Piccadilly club ;
The next he’s chasing copy new
Before some Thursday Island pub.
More points than you’ll discover by
The compass or the zodiac,
He’s covered, and we’ll gather why
Now that we know that Bedford’s back.
One day a tragedy he’ll show,
Blank-versed, with Scripture for its text,
Float half-a-dozen mines or so
And turn a novel out the next.
He lunches in some brigand’s lair,
Dines on the Pontiff’s choicest tack,
And how lie sold them each a share
We’ll ascertain now Bedford’s back.
vie.
A.B.


r The World’s Wonders
ITS CITIES AND ITS SCENERY.
• r/ 711 etration it is hardly necessary to travel to see the World's
In these days of Perfect Printing and j^Ua au tif u l views of the most famOUS sights ; see, delightfully
Wonders For a few shillings one may literally revel m beautiful VieWS
Wonders. p and the Wonders of the Twentieth Century.
depicted, the Marvels o P BEAUTIFUL BOOKS for XMAS PRESENTS,
The following SERIES OF 2- each.
witK ftxll-pag® Illustrations an Color 0 &
The Alds containing- 70 full-page Illustrations in Color. Painted by
A D McCormick. Described by Sir Martin Conway. .
The Durbar, oontainiior 100 lull-pape Illustration, in Color, b,
HeppyEbSeSK-iSu* 80 <u,l.p«e Illusion, in Color, b,
Tbe^^'SS,Sin,S^^if|S^r o '-
trations in Color. Painted by Col. E. C. Goff. Descimea y
The M Holy Land, containing 92 full-page Illustration, mostly in
Color Painted by John Pulleylove, E.I. Described by the Kev.
John Keluian, M.A.
Egypt, containing 75 full-page Illustrations in Color. Painted and
described bv R. Tcilbot Kelly» R.13.A. .
Ronnie Scotland, containing 75 full-page Illustrations in Color.
Painted bv Sutton Palmer. Described by A. R. H°P e Moncrieff.
Tibet and Nepal, containing 75 full-page illustrations 50 in Color.
Painted and described by A. Henry Savage Landor. Mortimer
Venice containing 100 full-page Illustrations in Goloi. }
Mptmes R.I. Text by Dorothy Menpes. . _ . -
War Impressions, containing 99 full-page Illustrations mCo or. y
Mortimer Menpes, R.I. Text by Dorothy Menpes. . ,
World’s Children, containing 100 full-page Illustrations in Co .
By Mortimer Menpes, R.I. Text by Dorothy Menpes.
Worid’s Pictures, containing 500 Illustrations, 50 in Color. y
Mortimer Menpes, R.I. Text by Dorothy Menpes.
Morocco, containing 74 full-page Illustrations in Color. Painted
by A. S. Forrest. Described by S. L. Bensusan. .
Naples, containing 80 full-page Illustrations m Color. By Augus-
tine Fitzgerald. Text by Sybil Fitzgerald. „ .
Norway, containing 75 full-page Illustrations in Color. Painted
by Nico Jungman. Described by Beatrix Jungman.
Rome, containing 70 full-page Illustrations in Color. Pamted by
Alberto Pisa. Text by M. A. R. Tuker and Hope Malleson
Ireland, containing 77 full-page Illustrations in Color. Painted
by Francis S. Walker, R.H.A. Described by brank Mathew.
Japan, containing 100 full-page Illustrations in Color. 1
Mpmips RI. Text bv Dorothy Menpes. . _ ,
Familiar London, containing 00 full-page Illustrations in Co or.
Painted by Rose Barton, A.R.W.S.
BEAUTIFUL XMAS PRESENTS.
The following are illustrated in similar style to the 20/-
Series 7/6 each.
Abbotsford, containing 20 full-page Illustrations in Color. ™nte&
by William Smith, Jun. Described by the Rev. W. S. Crockett.
Edinburgh, containing 21 full-page Illustrations in Co,or. Painted
bv John Fulleylove, R.I. Text by Rosaline Masson. # ,
Westminster Abbey, containing 21 full-page Illustrations mColoi.
Pah'ted by John Fulleylove: R.I. Text by Mrs. A. Murray
Smith.
“tflaraasts gegtareaß^te
POST CARDS OF THE. „„
:rr'.r-
-~ »»TLZZL- .ia - ™ E POST CARD CRAZE -
There are Thousands of others
Following are a few.
Favorites, Flemish Cottage Homes, Rough
Charms, Scotland, North Wales Picturesque Lng and, Volunteer
Life in Camp, London Life, Dickens Series, Racing, The Inns ot
Court, New Zealand, &c. lid each ; Is 4d doz.
Kerry’s Collotype. -Blue Mountains, Aboriginal L ' f ’ < ,
Life, Station Life in Australia ; Picturesque h.vdnej , llubtiatmg
beauty spots round the Harbor, City and Subu
Sketches, &c., &c. Id each ; lOd per doz.
Dear Old Sydney Series.— Blue Mountains, N.S.W.; Dear Old
Sydney ; Best Wislies from Sydney ; Sunny New South Wales ;
South Coast, N.S.W. ; Land of the Golden Fleece. 5d per set of 6.
SPECIAL XMAS CATALOGUE, l«00 Illustrations, Post Free Anywhere.
Anthony Hordern & Sons
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS * *
Palace Emporium, vSYDNEY.
CAT AN ACH’S
Cash Returned
Bf Not Satisfied.
No. 3— Very 1-ine Pearls, £5 10s.
Christmas Greetings
We wish you all the Season’s cheer,
For Christmas once again is here;
Gifts to sweethearts, friends and all,
For real good value give us a call.
If you cannot call, then send a letter,
And we’ll send you goods that none can better.
No. 2—Rotherham Gold Watch,
full jewelled, Hunting, 9ct£l2 10s;
18ct £l7. Open-face, 9ct £9 ; 18ct
£l7
Send tor Catalogue, FREE.
No. 9 —9cfc. Gold, Fine Pearls, 25s
No. 16—Choice Pearl
design, 40s.
for
Rotb^rbari)
♦ and *
Waltban?
WatcbcS.
No. s—lsct.5 —15ct. Gold, Real Pearls, 35s
No. 11—Kuby and
Finest Diamonds, £3O
sS
No. 12—Finest
Diamonds. £lB
No. 13—£20.
jjßsssa
No. 14— £25.
No. 15— Emerald,
Diamond or Sapphire
£l2 10s.
'iii2 l
10
t 35s
No I—Oniula and Gilt Clock, gilt in 24ct. Gold, warranted
not to tarnish. 30 other designs, 15s. to £4.
No. 6—Fine Pearls, 255.
Real Pearl.
No 10—Turquoise and
Pearl. Enamel Art Design.
No. 7—lsct. Gold, Fine Pearls, 355.
No. B—lsct.8 —15ct. Gold, Fine Pearls, 355.
No. 4—Fine Borak Pearl, Turquoise
Pendant, Newest Art Design, 60s.
guaranteed
We have the finest
inest select OM# . Lonc jon agent for the Christmas trade.
CAT AN ACH’S Jewellery Factory
Corner LITTLE
COLLINS STREET and ROYAL ARCADE, iTELBOURNE.


/>
8*
&
CP
&
c
y
\»
9
& PERSISTENT
WHOLESALE ONLY
MIDDOWS BROTHERS. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLINGTON*?
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN * OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
Dress Rubrics
Are Stocked bv the
. Leading Drapers.
maVkTHE varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 5, 1905.
My Dear Arini, —
Shakos and swords and jingling spurs at the
military concert on Saturday night. Brigadier-
Deneral Gordon—not half so chestv as a lot of his
officers and privates —was there, and Mr.
Bertie 5 Kelly, who is a fine musician, con-
tributed several violin solos. Proceeds go
towards a fund to found a military library for
the garrison artillery. Wonder if they’ll buy
Ouida s and Mrs. John Strange Winter’s novels for
the sake of the military heroes who strut and
whirr and clank like crates of hardware through
the pages. One of the best items was the sword
duel between Dr. Roth and M. Lucciardi, the
Vlce-Consul for Franee. Remember that thrilling
description of swordsmanship in Marion Craw-
ford’s “ Saracinesca ” ? Really, the long, long
doctor and the agile little Frenchman fought like
these two Italians—minus tiie gore that was shed
in the romance. I believe, by the way, that for
real gore a duel scene in Dumas’ “Chicot the
Jester ” is considered to about reach the summit.
Musicians meet at the Australia Hotel Friday
afternoon to make arrangements for receiving A.
K. and Mrs. Virgil, who arrived by the Sierra’
Mr. Orlando S. Baker, U.S. Consul, will preside,
and Mr. J. A. Delaney will support him if he
feels himself sinking down at one end. The
visitors are widely known in the States as ex-
ponents of a royal road to piano-playing. Mrs V
is credited with being an accomplished pianiste,’
and knowing how to wear her hat just the right
way.
Miss May Peach—a Mosman girl of 17—with a
Voice, blue eyes, and a downpour of golden hair,
left for London and an engagement by the Orontes
last Saturday. Mr. Alfred Courtney cabled for
her after hearing a tinned song by her. That’s a
great idea, singing into a gramophone and for-
warding the record to the impresario man in
London. It suggests how far we have advanced.
If the gram’ had been invented about 27 centuries
ago, the old prophet could have prophesied into it,
and then set the instrument at the door of the
palace to denounce the wicked king till further
orders, while the prophet himself bounded like a
kangaroo till he reached a safe place at Carmel or
Lebanon. Miss May’s uprising justifies Ada
Crossley s prophecy of two years ago, that the
sweet I each had a lyric future. Impresario
Courtney is the young singer’s uncle, and as it is
only in melodrama that uncles are wicked—in real
life they are only bankrupt through helping unde-
serving nephews—her ascent in the musical scale
will no doubt be made as easy as possible.
The deplorable Dailey case, which came to a
halt m the Sydney Divorce Court last week,
didn t show Australia’s gilded youth to much
advantage. Of four young men prominently
mentioned not one seemed to have done
any useful work. They had mostly been to
Oxford where the Rhodes scholars go, to learn to
be Imperial statesmen—and then devoted them-
selves to spending money more or less creditably.
Of only one can it be said that he had shown any
desire at all to become a useful Australian.
Ihe others seemed to regard the spending of
money they hadn’t earned, a La mode of the London
Smart Set, as the highest object in life. Quite out-
side of the merits of the main case—on which
comment is inadvisable until a definite conclusion
has been reached—Ld have felt inclined, had I
been on the Bench, to have sentenced all the young
men who came forward as witnesses to work-
hard work, not necessarily in gaol, but hard work.
Of the ladies who were witnesses, or were pro-
minently mentioned, Mrs. Dailey is rather tall
and very attractive rather than handsome
or pretty. Fair hair, red-brown eyes, a refined
narrow face, a figure as slender as a growing
girls, feet that can well afford the publicity
of the ankle-length skirt, and a manner that
even to women spells fascination. She has
the repute of being a “good dresser”—one of
the rare ones who can get a good effect out of ex-
treme simplicity. Her smart handling of G. H.
Reid when he cross-examined her was one of the
sensations of the hearing. Mr. Reid was com-
pletely nonplussed. Miss Kitty Cowell is of the
charming and fluffy sort—very typical of a certain
London set, just the Gaiety notion of a fasci-
nating Girl from Kay’s ” with power to
draw a Hoggenheimer to her will. Another ladv
who figured with the pretty pet-name of “Dreary-’’
was a Coogee (Sydney) barmaid. She’s a girl
with no special beauty except in her eyes, but has
inspired quite a number of passions which, if not
grand, are at least cottage-grand size.
Out at Bondi Beach there is as much agitation
going on as to whether men and women should
bathe in the surf as there is in the self-same
bay when a southerly blows. For years a
few early morning bathing cranks had that beauti-
tul beach all to themselves. They undressed on
the rocks hard by, rushed into the deep, emerged
dripping brine, and hung themselves out to dry
on the sand without so much covering as a strand
of sea-weed. But woman came along and
troubled the waters and the male bather. The
latter had to increase his covering in consequence.
At first one lady in skimpy skirt used to drift
away to the beach centre, have her bath, and drift
home in her soaked skirt. Then two younger
ladies appeared with a piece of canvas which was
set up on the sand as a topless tent, and with head
and shoulders quite visible the nymphs adjusted
the necessary neck-to-knee costume. That was a
year or so ago. To-day the beach is lined with
hundreds of both sexes, who bathe together with
ivs little concern as Willis has about returning to
Sydney. A casual glance at the aquatic revels
proves how necessary the dressmaker and tailor
are in this life.
Paquin, the inspired Parisian dressmaker man,
has been telling an interviewer things. Such as
“Americans set the fashions.” The world was
under the impression that Frenchwomen did so
Well they did, but now they don’t :
We dressmakers certainly do the work of modelling
dresses ; but it is the American buyers, the representa-
tives of great American houses, who come here by the
score several times a year, who decide on the final shape
and color scheme. These representatives come to my
house to inspect the hundreds of dresses which I and my
assistants have prepared. The buyers visit all the great
firms and make comparisons. Choosing the best models,
they ask for certain dresses, but with such-and-such
changes made. Once suited, however, they buy hundreds
and hundreds of the kind they require, and their selection
fixes the mode for that season.
Money has bred taste, and the cult of clothes is
almost a religion with American women. An
American paper has just published the names of
the hundred richest men on earth—the ones who
can buy most clothes for their womenkind. Fifty
of them are of the United States. Rockefeller
heads the list with a billion dollars. Beit, the
S African diamond man, comes next; the Czar is
fourth. One Australian only is down among the
fifty-million-dollar-men, and he is called “Sir
Jarvin Clark.” Surely our Rupert is the man.
But out of America come the richest people, and
they the women at least—go to Paris to be
clothed. The money that Old Man Graham
makes out of the hog at Chicago, what time he
isn t giving good advice to his chesty son, goes in
dresses at Paquin’s—so many hundred hogs to a
dress.
Blue is to be the reigning color, says a fashion
prophet. “ Pastel blue in all the rich variety of
curious tints that the word stands for. It fades to
green and often to grey, it reflects a tint of gold,
but it is always blue. Peacock blue has come
back, marine blue holds its own, and all blues are
admittedly good by reason of the pastel’s pre-
dominance.” At first night of “ Leah Kleschna”,
there were 64 blue-clad women in the reserved
stalls.
’Frisco papers by last mail say that Melba will
give a few concerts there. Also that “she will
take her long rest in California.” Sounds like the
repose one gets in eternity. It was announced
here some time ago that Melba is due for a
vacation (but no concerts—just straight-out, rest-
ful loafing) in the Commonwealth. And that
plan, so far as I know, is unchanged.
Talking of singers, Miss Nora Long, the Maori-
land soprano, has been making the Austral
Salonites split their elbow gloves of best suede,
with enthusiasm over her singing of “ In the Days
of Roses.”
, Collins Brothers and Co., of Clarence-street, are
issuing a series of Australian Christmas cards.
Our own birds and animals, bits of Australian
scenery, fronds of Commonwealth foliage and
scenes of station life embellish the covers, and
there’s plenty of room inside for you to write the
midsummer greetings.
Miss Beatrice Gritnshaw, who wrote the clever
little booklet on Medlow Hydro for Mr. Mark
Foy, is doing special commissioner work for local
S.M.H. After a sparkling description of the
New Hebrides paradise she doubts if any Aus-
tralian traveller could be roused to enthusiasm by
its picturesque jungle :
No—to get the full flavor out of tropical life in wild
islands, one must have been born and bred in the cold,
grey, decorous North, where the policeman is always out-
side the window-pane, and the window-pane is mostly
wet; where the next-door neighbor and his opinions sit
like a nightmare on the chest of the community ; where
travel means a cushioned railway-carriage with a foot-
warmer and a novel, and adventure the sight of a bull
running unaccompanied down a macadamised road.
Miss Gritnshaw was on an Irish cycling paper,
I'm told, before she came to Australia.
The genial, beaming Mr. Murray White, always
a bosom friend of the late Mr. “Jack” Want, has
retired from practice. His nichein Selborne Cham-
bers will be occupied by Mr. Salenger, from
Bourke. Mr. White's friends say he will now
grow tall roses and cultivate small dogs to fill in
his time, but I should think that even the smallest
dog may pall at times.
Mrs. John Frazer, one of our foremost Some-
bodies, is giving a big at-home this week. Men-
tion is made because the lady is one of the very
few hostesses who pay local professional talent
for its services at her frisks. Since the bridge
mania has become acute, the poor singer or player
has even less chance than of yore to earn a guinea.
Hostesses are greedy gamblers instead of enter-
tainers.
Last night the Allen Taylors added another
deed to the pile that shall be counted unto
them for righteousness. They entertained the
Boys’ Brigade, some hundreds strong, with
harmony, conjuring, and supper at the Town
Hall. Lord Jersey spoke to the boys, and from the
simple chummy-like way he talked, one would think
he’d risen from “ flying papers ” himself instead
of having his peerage reached down to him from
the shelf of his ancestors. For the rest of the time
he and the Mayoress were engrossed in earnest
chat.. Mrs. G. H. Reid and Mrs. Carruthers—the
latter lady has distinguished good looks—wore the
smartest hats, and Miss Margaret Harris, her
niece (who now does her hair like Cleo de Merode)
and Mrs. J. C. Williamson were amongst the
invited guests.
Lady Jersey was so “fetched” by the half-
mourning bouquet of sweet pea presented to her
on arrival in Sydney by Mayoress Taylor that she
asked for seeds of the flower—a chastened mauve
—to take back to her own peeratical gardens. As
“ Wallington ” Layton had “ invented ” and
grown the blooms, he had to shell out (or seed up).
Mr. John Young, the veteran bowler, is enter-
taining Lord Jersey this afternoon at his pictur-
esque place at Annandale.
The engagement of the young King pf Spain to
Princess Ena is announced. She.is very pretty—
for a royal girl. Her father Battenberg was
one of the handsomest of men. But he
must have been glad to die, just to
be rid of the monotony of living in
the same house as his mother-in-law, having
breakfast morning after morning with her
in a bell-tent on the lawn, and putting the cat
out and locking up last thing at night, and know-
ing that his royal brothers-in-law called him “ the
stalled ox.” When he married Beatrice he was a
lieutenant or something in the German army, and
had an income of quite £2B a year.
Two Sydney governesses left within the last
month to take teaching billets in Japan—private
Jap. families. And from England, at the close of
the war, there went a whole squadron of Girtonians
and degree’d women, engaged by the Jap. Govern-
ment for girls’ high schools. Miss Plumblossom
and Mdlle. Butterfly intend to qualify for some-
thing more than man-hunting and hair-dressing.
Mrs. Ebenezer Vickery is working hard on the
rather wooden planks of the Women’s Reform
League. Sydney folk won’t soon forget their first
introduction to Mrs. Ebenezer after her marriage,
when they were invited to meet her at the
converted Lyceum Theatre and talk over good-of-
our-race questions. From Point Piper, and Rose
Bay, Woollahraand Darling Point they poured,
expecting something" superb and millionairish in
the way of entertainment. Instead of caviare
sandwiches and Irroy, Society got prayers and the
singing of hymns. So it doesn’t rush the draw-
ing-room meetings for the advancement of the
Reform League. Last Sunday a lady on the staff
of a semi-sectarian weekly rang up the Vickery
mansion for some particulars of the League, as
she wished to make some perfectly respectful ob-
servations on the same. “We cannot discuss
business matters on the Sabbath,” was the
reply. The “ conversion ” of the Lyceum is
a very commercial spec, indeed ; £l5 a night is
what mummers have to pay for it, and they are
restricted to mum within strictly ring-a-ring-a-
rosy programmes.
Miss Selvvyn, daughter of a bishop, and grand-
daughter of the Bishop Selwyn, who directed the
soular system of Maorilanders, was married
recently in London to a gentleman in holy
orders. Portraits of her abound in ladies’ papers.
Holy-order damsels all look much alike—intellec-
tual and modest as to forehead and expression ;
no straying hair or pin curls, but high-necked plain
frocks, and a locket. On the other hand, the
holy-order men they marry look like Captain
Wilson or Captain Balmain—if those field-mar-
shals wore their collars back to front.
Such handfuls and handfuls of gems there are
in the Sylvaine family caskets that Leah
Kleschna tries to rob these nights at Her
Majesty’s; but the house doesn’t get half a look
at them. They are still in the big box when
Sylvaine turns up the light and startles the rob-
beress by presenting her with a lecture instead of
a pair of handcuffs. Brown, it seems, is the right
tone to go a-burgling in ; afterwards, when you’re
sorry and not in gaol, you picture your grief in a
black skirt and Russian blouse over a white shirt-
waist, and a plain hat of sunburnt straw, with a
meek quill stuck horizontally through the crown.
Note that the quill lies down. But what
a chance “ Leah Kleschna” gives to the
marriage-reformers-—the sort who are always
telling us of the wickedness of the woman
who sells herself for a home with nice soft
cushions, and a seat at every first night, and
something dazzling to wear in it! Leah’s wicked-
ness, they would point out, is so obvious, though,
after all, she only wants the before-mentioned
jewels—and even then she’s going to buy some-
thing to hang in the family meat-safe with them.
And the Berton girl, whom Sylvaine is to marry,
obviously only wants the jewels too; in half-a-
dozen words you get quite a large enough hint
that Sylvaine isn’t much use without them. And
nobody notices the Berton girl’s wickedness ; no
good, kind philanthropist thinks she needs
“saving.” Yet the only essential difference be-
tween the two seems to be that one went after the
jewels with a skeleton key, and the other crooking
an engagement-ring finger and wearing a winning
smile.
The girl who threw herself over the cliffs at
Coogee, last week, should have lived to ornament
the daily press. There is plenty of room in the
journalistic world for the person capable of such a
masterpiece of condensation as her last letter,
“ Suicide—Coogee.” The majority of people who
set out to take their lives leave verbose epistles
based on the literary style of Home Slops or the
Sydney Morning Herald’s anti-socialistic lead-
ers.
The death at Townsville (Q.) of Christo-
pher O’Connell French, grandson of Liberator
Daniel O’Connell, recalls the fact that Sydney
harbored two relatives—a cousin and a cousin’s
son—of the great Dan. Both were Maurice
O’Connells. The father married a daughter of
Governor Bligh, and himself filled the office of
Acting-Governor for a time. The son, born in
Wynyard Square Barracks, did some stirring
army work, but quitted that line for politics, and
entered the old N.S.W. Legislative Council. He
went afterwards to Queensland, where he became
President of the Council, and several times acted
as Governor.
Mrs. Helen Jerome is back in Sydney, after
far-world wanderings, about which she wrote for
Melbourne Age. In Melbourne, on the way back,
she was entertained at dinner at Federal Parlia-
ment House by Dr. Maloney, and she can pride
herself on the fact that she is the first woman to
be entertained there.
A Queensland correspondent writes me :
A blinding shower of rain greeted the arrival at
Brisbane of Queensland’s new Governor. The
elements wept to see the result of a general ran-
sacking of old wardrobes and decayed liat-boxes.
The Windsor uniforms wore many creases and
bore testimony to the corroding power of moth
and rust. Mayor Proe Bonopublicanus was so
unidentifiable in his C.M.G.-ship emblems that
the crowd cheered him, thinking, at first glance,
he was Chelmsford. The soaked soldiers who
lined the streets spoke bitterly—both of them—
about the Federal authorities because they could not
sport overcoats instead of the gaudy review dress.
A little girl dashed through the rain while the
procession passed the G.P.O. and handed His Ex.
a bouquet. Then a crowd of boys raced in the
mud alongside the Vice-regal carriage and
whooped, much to the mortification of the police,
who looked inclined to shoot but for the awk-
wardness of the line of fire. All the women
who lined the pavement thought “ Chummy ” was
just too handsome. So the procession passed
along to Government House, under festoons of
flags, close to row's of feathered palms, and through
an archway enriched by sample products to prove
the great natural resources of the country ; and
something was signed, sealed and delivered. Next
morning the Sydney swimmers arrived, and look-
ing at the flags and greenery said proudly that the
Brisbane crowd were a decent lot, and knew what
was due to an aquatic push when it visited them.
Count Eustach Kierski, a Pole of aristocratic
descent, and known in Brisbane as Charles
Parsons, died like any other man when the end
of the coil is reached, last week. His family
reside in Posen. He came to Australia 20 years
ago to try his luck at work, and turned out to b«
a pretty shrewd dealer in stock. With others he
entered pastoral pursuits at Mount Cornish, but
sold out a few years later, and then bought
Camoola Park. In 1899 he again sold out, and
was a rich man. In 1902 he went back to Queens-
land to look after some station interests at
Winton, but the drought years hit him hard, and
he broke down at last under the strain. Mrs.
Parsons is a daughter of a former partner of her
husband’s, R. Newton.
Henry George Russell Phipps, who committed
suicide in Brisbane Botanical Gardens by cyanide,
was the second son of the Marquis of Normanby.
He settled in the Beaudesert district as a grazier
a good many years ago. A wonderful number of
British and other aristocrats are spread over Aus-
tralia, and quite a large proportion of them seem
to be trying to grow the bullock in some dry
region, where the only sure crop is the curse that
comes home to roost, and where there is nothing
but wire fence for it to roost on.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 4, 1905.
My Dear Yarrie, —
A good many empty houses gape on the Toorak
view just now, and there’s more to follow, judging
by the early shipping lists of 1906. All the frilly
charmers are collecting the paraphernalia generally
marked “ wanted on the voyage.” This includes
a complete angler’s kit, being the appointments
the young she-Australian mostly wants on the
voyage abroad— i.e., powder, cold cream,
transform—but I mustn’t give too much away.
The absentee land proprietor, by the way, is an
epidemic calling for drastic treatment.
There must be a special allowance on the V.R.
expenditure list for caddies’ lids. The other day,
at various times of a sunny afternoon and in
various parts of the city, I counted nine hat-lift-
ings on the part of Aide Buchanan, each time the
Grey Grace ascended or descended from her ve-
hicle. Towards the last, the lid was looking
something like the snail-promenade that generally
distinguished the lid of the shabby Micawber.
And I wondered sympathetically if the V.R.
caddy were allowed a fresh lid every other day.
Great rejoicings at “Mandalay”—the O’Hara
home—that the martial son of the house is qualify-
ing for bloodshed rapidly and passing every test
with promptitude in Fogtown. At latest his
dancing step was perfect, his “ haw ” irreproach-
able, he had taken honors in ragging, and was
in readiness for a commission in the British ranks.
Judge Box, the one bachelor of the Vic. Bench,
fegjfjgh at length his duty to take a little notice of
the sex he has disregarded for so long. At
Stonington the other night the new Solomon made
himself extremely pleasant to the fair of the party.
Invitations are in consequence flowing in, and his
bachelor state may any day be showing signs of
capitulation. In an under-manned capital like
this, an amiable bachelor rising 50 should not be
allowed to peisist in his singleness.
Aide Victor Hood goes to pick up his
strength for the exhausting Stonington duties to
the nearest port of the spiced Empire. He is a
nervous young man with a disposition to lisp,,
and on the Le Hunte staff appreciated the great
amount of leisure he had to get through. Fearing
a break-down in the brisker atmosphere of this.
Bent capital, the Hon. Victor goes off to gather-
muscle, strength and an appetite.
The G.-G. and his dame have their considering-
caps on at this minute, the question of a fancy
fling for kiddies having been mooted. In view of.
the fact that there are no branches to the North-
cote tree, the idea of treating the Victorian off-
shoots is magnanimous. Perhaps it’s their way
of stamping approval on an industry that comes
in nowadays for a good deal of official encourage-
ment.
Love has a varying effect on its female victims.
The tale goes that when a certain little Australian
mummer found her Fate on the Big Smoke stage,
she altered in her dress and ways to a degree that
simply staggered all the ’Roo-landers visiting the
hub. She gave up her pert, giddy manner and
her philanderings, and settled down into quiet,
plain living and dull garb. That’s how real Love
affected this little siren. It generally sends the
sex into wasteful and ridiculous excess so far as
clothes and mode of living go.
The light cure is the latest thing for suffering
femininity. A medical man’s chick is one of
many trying the play of powerful lights on her
anaemic phiz. Some progress and improvement
are reported. In the Cold Country there are
thousands pinning their belief to this light cure.
Remedies are with every decade becoming nicer.
Next we shall be given sugared roses for indiges-
tion, and violet saute for chest complaints.
Macedon is to be the headquarters of a whole
host of tired fashionables. This not so much
because of the bracing air and glorious
sunsets, as being the locale of a Vice-
regal roost. The eye of Toorak has not
been trained to the glories of the scene.
It is merely interested in the clothes of its stylish
neighbor and the goings and comings of the smart
fry in its vicinity. Because of the rush of appli-
cants for the Macedon cottages, local Todgers are
giving themselves airs and picking and choosing
their tenants. So far word has not come along of
any extra curl on the part of the gums or addi-
tional frou-frou of the fern trees.
The Talbots are keeping the chef busy. Every
second night a small batch of officials or useful
Toorakites are bidden to a Stonington dinner.
The meal is always a cool one. The figure of the
aristocratic Tal bottle at the head of the table, says
a recent guest, is, as Daudet would say, a very fish-
bone in the throat. How can one ladle up the
soup heartily or plunge into the peas zealously
with a frozen Sphinx looming a few yards oft?
One can but crumble the bread in one’s best
manner and take a helping of salt as if it were a
pearl from the shell. The fat official who requires


THE CROWNING CHARM
Of a pretty woman is—not hair, not eyes, not
features, not figure, hut a good complexion. “Valaze”
is the great creator and preserver of good complexions.
It removes wrinkles, freckles, tan, blackheads, etc., and
substitutes a fair, soft, smooth skin that is the delight
of its fortunate possessor, and the charm of all beholders.
“ Valaze” is scientifically prepared from herbs grown in
the Carpathian Mountains. It is guaranteed to be non-
hair producing, bringing nothing but beauty in its train.
Price, 3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d. extra. New importations
from Vienna. Oomtesse Potooca’s “ Voskpasta,” to be used
with “Valaze” Herbal Soap, 3s. per jar. A delightful
preparati n. Oomtesse Potocca’s “ Creme Promenade,”
for Outdoor entertainments, 3s. 6d. per jar. A wonderful
bekutifier. “ Valaze ” special “ Blackhead Cure ” guaran-
teed, 3s. 6d. per jar. “ Valaze ” Massage Rollers, for use
in your home. Washington H. Soul, Sydney, leading
chemists in all States, or Mdlle. H. Rubinstkin and Co.,
274 Collins-street, Melbourne. Guide to Beauty Free.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pviolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 3G4a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
* 4 7 - i) 3
ism* »
6/? ‘
O'
•/owe?/ cPcuv.
Alee-
m) np o
t\ i
After Long Dalliance ...
SUMMER IS HERE!
THE TRYING DAYS ARE
AT HAND WHEN . . .
GOOD DRESS PRESERVERS
BECOME A NECESSITY.
There is JUST ONE RELIABLE MAKER—
KLEIN ERT.
To ensure Personal Comfort, Ladies will buv
DRESS SHIELDS of AMPLE SIZE, and only
those that bear the
KLEINERT Trade Mark.
Shun the “JUST AS GOOD.”—None such
are made.
A COMMON MISUNDERSTANDING.
Many people think that the use of salt is merely a
matter of taste inst jad of being a necessity for health and
digestion. As our food is prepared and refined in modern
life the natural salts are removed, and we add common
salt to take its place, although this is by no means an
equal benefit. The natural salts contain phosphates which
nourish the bones, nerves, blood, and the brain. Com'mon
salt has none of these. The modern invention of
“ Cerebos ” Salt exactly replaces the natural salts lost in
preparing- and cooking the food. There are still many
people who think that this “ Cerebos ” Salt is an article
of luxury or perhaps a medicine. It is neither of these,
however, but an invaluable food which doubles the
nutritive value of everything to which it is added. It has
no taste but that of ordinary salt. It is used in the same
way as common salt by putting it in all articles of food in
the kitchen and at table. The growth of children is
stimulated by it, the powers of the body are strengthened,
and long life made more secure.*
FOR SALE
A NICE COTTAGE HOME, 5 rooms, fold.
doors, kit., w.b., large bath-rm., sewer,
gas stove, workshop, lawn, rose garden, handy
Bondi Baths and Park. In perf. order, free from
damp ; pleasantly situated in a very rr'c° quiet
street; 40 x 130, Torrens. £5OO. THELMA,
Gierstein-street, Waverley, Sydney, oT Bon
Accord Avenue, and Flood-street, Bondi.
Amussmen ts.
THEATRE royal, Sydney.
■ Lessee .. .. .. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON..
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
THROUGH THE DIVORCE COURT.
Presented bv WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, Headed by the
Talented Australian Actress. EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Elvy.’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
w Direction .. .. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON at 2.
LAST 8 NIGHTS of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA SEASON
Last 2 Nights of Gilbert & Sullivan’s Operatic Perversion
PRINCES? IDA.
SAT., DEC. 9, and MONDAY, DEC. 11, THE MIKADO.
TUE 3., DEC. 12, and WED., DEC. 13,' PATIENCE.
S=W~ PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at El vy & Co.’s.
Amusements.
H E ? MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Pv ™™™ e *?o Man ?^® r ■ • Mr - J- 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
LAST WEEKS of the SEASON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,,
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S DRAMATIC COMPANY in
LEAH KLESCHNA.
Miss TITTELL BRUNE....as LEAH KLESCHNA.
Box Plan at Paling’s. prices AS USUAL.
THEATRE, SYDNEY
* e , n i ( x ) JrJ ,eto1 ’ & Manager— Mr, Harry Rickards.
rmnv Ar i I ), WJi WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
LEROY, TALMA, BOSOO, Comedians de Mephisto Co.
RiDEK &LONE, Vocal Character Comedian.
EOY GLEN, Juvenile Raconteur.
Great Success of JACKSON FAMILY, Leading Musicians.
, Emphatic Success of MISS OLIVE LENTON.
KELLY and AGNES. KELDIE and DAVIS.
m,.„°2. ntlnued Success of Mr. ARTHUR ALBERT.
TOM DAWSON, MAUD FANING, ARTHUR ELLIOTT,
GEORGE BENTLEY, WALTER KEEN, &c.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
JIM MARION, Comedian, Eccentric Dancer.
LES BRUNIN, Billiardistes Modernes.
POST MASON, Operatic Baritone Vocalist.
HILL and WHITAKER, Coon Singers, Banjo and Harp
Duettists.
GRAHAM and DENT, Comedy Sketch Artists.
FRED BLUETT, Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. tfgr PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
SMEW THHATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
* V Ije «see BLAND HOLT.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of WITH FLYINC COLORS.
SATURDAY NEXT, DEC. 9,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular
C >ml>ination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Stirring Spectacle and Novel Story of London Life,
IN SIGHT OF ST. PAUL’S.
ttW PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
|_| ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
8 1 Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of VERONIQUE.
SATURDAY NEXT, DEC. 9,
Mr. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in the
Renowned London and New York Rage,
THE GIRL FROM KAYS.
Plan at Allan’s. MATINEE, WEDNESDAY’S.
“ pRINCES COURT,” MELBOURNE.
General Manager A. L. BAIRD.
!XF- ADMISSION 6d ; CHILDREN 3d.
GREAT WATER CHUTE 1 ! TOBOGGAN ! I
HELTER-SKELTER ! I
And All Latest Sensational Novelties.
In Course of Erection and Shortly to be Opened,
KATZENJAMMER CASTLE.
Furnished Throughout with—SURPRISES 1 1
A DESIRABLE
FOOD FOR
INFANTS,
INVALIDS &
THE AGED.
W. Watson & Sons
ARE AGENTS FOR . . .
PAUL’S
ANItyATOSRAPN.
The
Best
Living:
Picture
Machine
Extant.
Larg:e
Stock of
Newest
Films
Always
on
Hand.
PRICE LIST GRATIS.
W. WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanston Street,
MELBOURNE.
MOTHER’S FRIEND.
PEOIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead ;
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best. !
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores, J
By post—Small. 1/2, large 2/3, fxtra large 3/6. <
Manufacturer—P. KLEESATTEL, *
" rnr dgmi. Victoria.
heavy feeding either disgraces himself at the
board or dashes to town and descends like a
tornado upon the first steak to be had in the
nearest cafe.
A divorce listed for the near future promises to
be interesting. The marm billed for the role of
respondent is smart and youngish. The spouse
petitioner has a difficulty in fixing on the third
party. There are said to be several eligible.
Capt. Collins —the band-box beau of the De-
fence Department—is on his way back to his
Commonwealth perch. He is said to have ac-
quired much information on defence matters while
holidaying abroad.
Master Willie Kelly lent his motor-car —the
one that boasts such a number of casualties—to
the Princess management for its recent drama, in
which the bishop’s carriage plays so prominent
a part.
Miss Florence Young has some interesting
things to say of the land and the fraternity of
dollars. One thing she noticed was the scarcity
of good male voices throughout Uncle Sam’s
country. “There’s scarcely half-a-dozen tenors
of any account in all the theatres.” In
the Cold Country managers are similarly stuck
for the he singer. None, or next to none, are to
be found in the singing quarters. The songstress,
on the other hand, abounds.
A jolly squatter from the Murray borders pro-
vides manicure entertainments for his fluffy
friends. He unearthed the daintiest nail-ca pen-
teress in the city, and escorts flocks of his
she-chums to her little apple-green parlor for
treatment.
All the Buckley clan who were scattered in the
Cold Country at the time of their progenitor’s
death, are sailing back to these parts shortly. The
announcement of the bad tidings was a shock to
the revellers, for, up to quite recently, the health
of the ex-draper had been a subject of congratu-
lation.
Miss Rita Kiddle once more dashes about
I’oorak parts after a longer spell of country
life than she generally indulges in. Her papa
looms on the Athenaeum Club steps when the
Block gets busy, and looks more than ever an
elderly Othello of the dramatic boards.
Miss Gyton, the agile tennis player, now stands
for the third time champion shield-holder of all
Australian courts. Away from the nets, this
racketty person looks as mild as green peas, but,
once on the court, she dashes into the game with
marvellous springiness, and lasts out ail the
heavyweights. The champion is most often the
little lean sort. Same with men. Take Hon.
Michael Scott, f’rinstance—a pink-cheeked
Johnnie, the kind one would expect to be too
tired to crumble a maccaroon at tea, and to call,
therefore, for sponge-cake. On the links he is a
demon. Cricketer McLeod is ai. example.
Stalking the Block he looks a blast and tired
lounger whose strenuousness wouldn’t run beyond
rolling his own cigarettes. In the cricketing field
lie’s a fighter of the first rank.
Annette Kellermann writes in a skittish vein of
gay and rather glorious doings when not pushing
her way with deft stroke in foreign waters. She
tilksof “that fetching Miss McGillicuddy look-
ing charming in ‘ Lady Madcap ’”. Annette also
expresses disgust at the Big Smoke choruses.
“ The girls in the comic opera haven’t the voices,
n ir the figures, nor the dancing legs of William-
son’s crowd.” The Parisians gave the Yarra girl
a great time, and at the latest were turning out
mechanical swimming toys emulative of Annette
in the wet, and dubbed “la Miss Kellermann.”
A Fogtown pianist was inspired to a composi-
tion by the champion brown nymph, and has
named it “The Kellermann March,” instead of
the Kellermann Swim. So many pianists have
done marches and cake-walks and valses, that a
Swim arranged for the pianoforte would be a
refreshing novelty for hot concert rooms. It
could be set to crawl-time, with occasional sinuous
passages suggestive of an eel going by, and here
and there music reminiscent of a bloater in the
distance.
The Talbott]es have been planting trees in the
Botanical Gardens. The idea of the lengthy Ex.
delving deep into the sod with beads of perspira-
tion dripping from his high-born brow, and his
t rey spouse putting her hand to the plough, or
whatever it is that pushes the earth about, is dis-
concerting. One could more easily imagine the
Bent Premier penning odes to the sky-lark or
measuring out feet of mournful elegy.
Some of the Staughton fashionable stock are
being unshipped at Melbourne’s port within a
fortnight, which will enable them to get their
land-legs and their chiffons out of ciea.e in time
for the final spree of the year, to be given by the
head of the clan on the 20th.
The motoriste as she whirrs now sits in state
within a glass house like a pot of asparagus fern
or any rarer green shoot. Toot-tooting along the
road, leaving a trail of massacred domestic pets
along the thoroughfare, the motoriste strikes one
in a droll light. But when she is drawn up in the
neighborhood of a shop, and one or other of the
party emerges from the petroleum conservatory
to traffic in goods, and one or two remain shut up
in the impressive show case, the effect is still
droller. A dame who looks upon the wine when
it is golden more often than necessary was en-
closed in the case the other day in Collins-street,
and a crowd gathered. Her countenance was
rather purple, and the man in the street guessed
she was “ being done to a turn ” in an oven heated
by petroleum.
A swagwoman, supposed to be insane, has been
arrested at Oakleigh. She carried with her an
orthodox swag and billy, but, on the strength of a
golf club, contrived to command the choicest
viands at every house she visited. The awe-
stricken cookies took her to be an indigent
member of the Government House party, or a
leading official of the Women’s National League.
Nowadays there, is more virtue in a golf club than
a tennis racket, and a person who can talk about
cleeks and bunkers with the proper enunciation ig
received into a sassiety that would shy off people
with fourteen hindquarters of meat on their
escutcheons.
Pasteboards were hurriedly circulated last week
for an afternoon spree at the Federal Government
House. The cards mention briefly, “Lady North-
cote at Home, 4.30 to 7.” This little postscript
spree will keep lots of the early migratory folk in
Melbourne a while longer.
Miss Alison Fairbairn’s latest accomplishment
is driving a motor. Not content to lounge in the
petroleum brougham behind a prodigiously fine
snorter, she whistles up a car, and, with the
motor-man by her side, steers the machine along
Tooralc road into the hot, pulsing heart of Collins-
street.
Mr. Sydney Smith, the successful plaintiff in
the claim for commission against the Tyson estate,
is a dandy widower with a taste for straw-deckers
and a weakness for fancy vests. A daughter is
married to a son of Federalist Allan McLean.
Sydney Smith himself is a son of the departed
veteran, who was the early Dick Whittington of
Melbourne. The late Peter Tyson and the
widower in question were inseparables.
Tooralc is wondering hard if anything is to come
of a flirtation that has been carried on furiously
by a local girl of money and an eligible person
who had a rather interesting career in London in
association with a financial Pecksniff whose end
was dramatic. A wealthy mama looks on from
the background and breathes the silence that
represents consent.
The late Charles Arnold affords an example of
the provident mummer—the strutter with a turn
for happy mining speculation. His widow, Dot
Frederics, has the consolation of a fat income.
A recently-deceased patentee bequeathed a
great dream fortune to the family, the next of
kin, and several public institutions. The be-
queathed dream-sums were set out on five pages
of foolscap. The actual value of the patentee’s
estate amounted to a little over £2OO.
Miss Queenie Cadden raises her travelled voice
in song at a concert this week (Thursday). On
the strength of a Fogville record, she had her
box-plan taken up with enthusiastic promptness.
Miss Scott is busily pursuing the study of vari-
ous band instruments, with a view to joining the
Jackson Quartet, into which she is to wed one of
these days. This just demonstrates a familiar
argument to the effect that a girl will do anything
when the masculine encouragement is good and
strong enough. Fancy the saucy Evelyn, after
her frisky* term of comic opera flings, tickling the
drum and scraping the fiddle for a vaudeville
family quintet.
An indignant correspondent writes from Ade-
laide about a garden fete held in aid of the Home
for Incurables. The organisers had a laudable
desire to make the tea and cool drinks tent pay,
so they securely plugged up every water tap on
the grounds. The nearest hotel was about two
miles off, and the temperature was holding its
centenary celebration—just like the death of Nel-
son. Some of the language is said to have been
incurable as well as the patients.
An enterprising Adelaide drapery firm has a
realistic representation of Robinson Crusoe in its
toy department. Half the room is fenced off and
fitted up with rocks and caves and a desert island,
and here Crusoe and man Friday disport them-
selves before the gaze of an admiring public.
Also a cockatoo, a penguin, a parrot, a seagull,
and a cat wander at large and do not devour each
other. Said that Crusoe and Friday get £lO a
week to mooch about, and look through telescopes
at nothing, and generally conduct themselves like
the stranded lunatics they represent.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
The Foreign-trade members in the Rep
resentatives began the debate on the Union Label
last week with the obvious desire to be closured,
in order that they might raise a newspaper howl
concerning “the gag.” Lonsdale, who bellows
frantic questions and roars crushing answers at
himself with the voice of a football barracker, was
followed by Johnson, dreariest of ineffective
talkers. Somebody called out: “ Is this another
stonewall?” The top of Joe Cook’s head glistened
with excited anticipation. “If it is, you know
what to do,” he yelled. Everybody laughed, and
Joe foamed at the mouth. “You know what to
do ; you know what to do,” he screamed again.
But the Government didn’t move, and Johnson
finished his speech, a disappointed man.
The Melbourne Divorce Court has come to
a very undecided decision in the case of the lady
who wanted two divorces simultaneously. The
position was that she married Walker and lost the
run of him. After a while a man who is now dead
told her that Walker was defunct, but later a man
who still survives told her that he was yet ■'live.
Anyhow, she married Brown. Brown also 1 ded
away, and married Amelia Clapp. The case as
put before Chief Justice Madden was this
(1) If Walker was: dead when the lady married Brown,
then she was Mrs. Brown, and Brown had committed
bigamy in marrying Amelia Clapp.
(2) If Walker wasn’t dead then she wasn’t Mrs. Brown,
but Amelia Clapp was.
The lady asked for two divorces. She obviously
only wanted one, but the trouble Was that she
didn’t know which one. But Chief Justice
Madden gave her a divorce from Walker on spec,
whether he was dead or alive, and refused to ex-
press any opinion at all about Brown. This
leaves three people very much where they
were, for neither the lady, nor Brown, nor
Amelia Clapp knows whether any one of
them is married or not. If Walker died
before a certain date—the date of Brown’s first
marriage—then apparently Emily Walker is Mrs.
Brown. If he died after that date, or hasn’t died
at all, then Amelia Clapp seems to be Mrs.
Brown. Chief Justice Madden says (with costs)
that he doesn’t know which of them is Brown,
and they were as far advanced as that before
(without costs). Brown is left to be torn by two
wives and conflicting emotions, but presumably he
also has some costs to comfort him. Even if a
man is only tenth cousin to a lawsuit the wide-
spreading branches of costs generally manage to
throw a bit of grateful shade over him.
Griffith and Allan, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne—(Broken Hiil Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
♦
MR. FRANK SELLERS,
Winner First Prize at Recent Poster Ball, Vic-
toria. Representing Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills.
Photo, by Sarony, 111 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A daughter of the British royal house is
announced as being about to wed the Catholic
King of Spain. Dill Macky and Woolls Rut-
ledge must intervene.
Said that the man for the post of secre-
tary to the N.S.W. Intelligence Bureau will be
found by Joseph Carruthers in Sydney Tele-
graph office. Come to think of it, Sydney Tele-
graph hasn’t been scoring Government billets for
quite a long time. Now, when Lyne was in
power
Close on £30,000 has been spent on
Government House, Sydney, since 1901, with a
view of beguiling the Governor-General to put in
a substantial part of his time there. The tempta-
tion, however, has not drawn to any great extent,
and the renewal of chairs only once or twice sat
■on fills Carruthers with anguish.
The Carruthers Administration in N.S.W.
ishould be known as the Quarrel regime. Joseph
imakes most of his limelight out of rows with the
Federal Government. The Railway Commissioners
irow among themselves, the Water and Sewerage
Board rows with the Cabinet, and the whole
Junction of Government seems to be in a state of
shindy.
Deputy-Speaker Salmon gave a most wise
:and commendable ruling during the mudwall in
ithe Representatives. He laid it down that when
<one member after another uses the same weary
■ old argument the man in the chair may refuse to
j listen to that argument any longer, and may
• order the orator of the moment to find a new
argument or else leave off.
Melb. Argus published a leading article
regarding the actions of Carty Salmon, Chairman
.of Committees in the House of Representatives.
'Quoth Salmon that afternoon: “I find, in 19
finches of the paper, 16 lies, five misrepresenta-
tions, some half-truths which eminent authority
!has said are worse than lies, one illogical conclu-
sion, and one grammatical error.”
A recent Melbourne item :
The construction of the Flemington tramway has been
temporarily owing to rails and other perma-
ment way material ordered from Great Britain not having
[arrived when expected.
'.This weariful hanging up of everything till soine-
ithing is imported is calculated to get on the
merves of a good Australian, who wants to see his
(country moving.
In 1901 it was reckoned that Australia
mould put 61,695 armed and more or less trained
mien into the field ; the number is now down to
:50,718. The permanent force has only decreased
Iby 292, but as there were only 1568 permanent
nnen to begin with, there wasn’t room for a very
ilarge reduction. The citizen soldiery, which
isliould be growing all the time, has decreased by
110,685. Again the Fools’ Paradise.
The N.S.W. Assembly is truly a House of
!Small Things. Recently Nobbs, M.L.A., took
mp the time of the august gathering by inquiring
whether a German named Casimir Gangioff, a
jperson with one arm and one eye, was begging in
.Sydney. And the Premier himself replied that
'Casimir Gangioff, a person with one arm and one
<eye, was working at present, so there was no
ireason to interfere with him.
In selling leases of 99 years’ duration on
!the Rocks resumed area, the N.S.W. Government
lias decided not to include a building covenant.
Excepting as t 6 the alignment of the streets, the
building conditions will be the same as when
jpeople scrambled on the Rocks and built where
;and how and what they pleased half a century ago.
Apparently the old bag and the kerosene-tin rem-
mant will be legitimate building materials if any-
body wants to use them.
An important matter was carefully evaded
last week in N.S.W. Assembly. Ex-Minister
•Owe’Sullivan asked, along with five other ques-
tions, if it were true that policemen were taken
away from street duty to look after unregistered
and stray dogs. And Minister Hogue replied
coldly, along with five other answers, that police-
men captured diseased dogs while on duty. Con-
sequently the question as to when the healthy but
vagrant dog is arrested remains unanswered to
this day.
During the passage through Queensland
Assembly of the Franchise Bill, some of Philp s
followers and little Jenkinson made pathetic
appeals for the bad old system of copious adver-
tising in the country press. “ Only £l2OO a year,”
they moaned, “was thus expended nowadays”;
but when Morgan pointed out that one paper
with a possible 300 circulation had, under the
Philp regime, drawn £9 per week for many years
from the patient Treasury, a cold chill fell upon
“the Remnant.”
Part at least of the daily press opposition
to the union label is based on fiscal apprehension.
The union label is a “ Made in Australia ’
brand, and will secure that the great bulk of
the unionists and sympathisers will abandon
imported goods in favor of those made in the
country in which we live. In other words, it will
make the theoretical Freetrade Laborite a prac-
tical Protectionist; therefore the press organs of
the importers curse it with a full head of steam on
and the safety valve tied clown.
Federal Opposition-leader Cook was bad
enough when he was a private member ; but since
his appointment as deputy-leader he has burst all
bounds, and his voice is a flood, sweeping all
before it. Cook every conceivable subject,
and he is constantly interjecting. Webster, who
can talk himself a bit, measured Cook’s speeches
for the present session, and found that they ran
into 2367 inches, or 91 solid yards of alleged
oratory. During three receflt sittings of the
House, Cook made 13 speeches and 78 inter-
jections. This was for the week ended Nov. 9th.
It was a plain, ordinary week, with nothing to
stir the Opposition to any particular effort. And
with brassy impudence Cook squeals about Deakm
and Isaacs “stifling free speech.” That is how
Cook goes on when he is “stifled. If lie were
given air, probably the whole House would be
asphyxiated through Joe taking up all the
breathing space.
The Queensland House of Nominees ap-
pointed a committee to consider the Land Mono-
poly Tax Bill, and the committee reports that
“ the conditions which might possibly, under some
circumstances, justify legislation for the so-called
bursting-up of large estates, do not at present
exist in Queensland.” If it sticks to this view,
there are two noble possibilities open to Premier
Morgan. One is, during the recess, to send up
sufficient new nominees to make the Council
change its so-called mind on this point. A still
better one would be to send up enough new and
firmly-pledged nominees to carry a Bill for the
abolition of the Upper House, and to set to work
next session to burst up that very large and
barren estate for good and all.
The municipal council of Caulfield (Vic.)
seems to be the champion fool corporation of that
State. Years ago it delegated to a tram company
the right to run trams over certain roads, and also
gave the co. sole possession of the centres of the
roads, but, with amazing folly, it omitted to make
any stipulation as to the return of the roads
should the co. fail to run any trams. The co. failed
to do so—just as so many other Private Enterprise
concerns have failed. The roads have gone to
ruin. The co. is nothing but a brass plate, out of
which it is impossible to extract any satisfaction ;
and the council can’t do anything till it has placed
the co. in liquidation, and got its assets—the
roads —made over in legal form. That process
has already cost £2OO, and is likely to cost as
much more, and the council is considering whether
a high conical cap with some bells on top of it
would be a suitable costume to wear when ex-
plaining things to the ratepayers.
Last week the gaud mayor of Sydney was
informed that there were 5000 unemployed in the
city, and he staggered back and said that it was a
disgrace that such a thing should be in a “ young
country.” What an amount of satisfaction
some people seem to get out of the dull wheeze
about a “young country!” There are only 12
IN HEAVEN AS IT IS ON EARTH.
SPIRIT: “ What! What's that ? You exclude ME! This is the result of your pernicious Immigration Restriction Act. I give you
warning, sir—you are driving Capital from the country! ”
pence in a shilling in a young country, the
same as in an old one. If a young country
chooses to import things instead of manufacturing
them its artisans will be unemployed—the same as
in an old one. For every £ a young country
borrows it owes 20s.—same as an old one. We
can’t eat the youngness of the country, nor drink
it. It is a disgrace to any city of 500,000 people
to have one-twentieth of its adult male population
unemployed, but what on earth has the youngness
of the country to do with it ?
“ Ailath ” : In view of the damage done to
the dignity of Webster, M.H.R., when he arrived
at Redfern without much time to spare, and
couldn’t be supplied with a sleeping compartment
because he hadn t ordered one, and in view of the
dust, language and turmoil that ensued, I beg to
propose that in all future cases of the kind : (1)
All the other passengers should be fired out and
the member should have the whole dashed train.
(2) That the entire blessed refreshment room
should be put in the hat-rack of the member’s
carriage. (3) That the general manager of the
railways should himself get on the engine and
drive like . (4) That there should be a wreath
of flowers round the engine funnel. (5) That the
whistle should applaud violently, and (6) that the
people should cheer as the vehicle goes by. I think
this should meet the case.
The not usually bloodthirsty Adelaide
pressman, W. J. Sowden, writing from China to
his own Register (23/11/5): —
The ill-luck which had attended us on a previous visit
to the Place of Execution was with us still. There had
been executions the day before—we saw the blood of
eight beheaded victims slowly drying and caking in the
sun—and there were to be some on the following morn-
ing, but to-day decapitations were off the list. The cross
on which the punishment of the 1000 cuts is administered
to women, who are not struck on a vital spot till after all
the protuberant flesh has been removed, lay near to the
congealed blood, and it had been used within a week ;
but it was idle now.
Hard luck, indeed. The gentle, desirable Chow
whom Bruce Smith calls “a splendid worker,”
was loafing that day instead of industriously
cutting 11L0 pieces off a live woman.
Queensland’s new Governor, Chelmsford,
to a SM Hervld hiterviewer, concerning the
to a S.M. -P-ERAL . ■ . by Common-
alleged scaring-off of immigrants by uommo
wealth legislation . • that ap .
He was surprised *Fe amoun here respe cting
the feeling in England regarding Australia. That we had
failed to remain as popular as we were prior to the
enactment of restrictive measures was a matter open to
considerable doubt. The ordinary able-bodied laboierin
i f ng the advantages to be gained’ by coming to the Anti-
podes.
The Tory yell about “the boycott ” re the
Union Label was silenced in a few words by
Spence, M.H.R., in the House of Reps, the other
night. ’ Spence said he patronised bakers who
paid 525. a week for an eight-hours day, not bakers
who paid 365. a week for a 12 hours day, and that he
followed the same rule with his tailor, his boot-
maker, and so on. “If Mr. Kelly or Mr. Lons-
dale want to eat bread made in a bakehouse full
of plague rats, or wear clothes that will bring fever
into their homes, they may,” he said. “But if
this sort of preference is hoycotting, I intend to
keep on boycotting. It is what every honest man
ouglit to do.”
Some new regulations have come into force
in reference to tl?e payment of engine-men on the
Victorian rail wavs The eight hours system has
allegedly been in force for two or three years. In
reality the day, even under the best conditions,
was from 8f to 91 hours. The eight hours pre-
tence has now been abandoned, and nine hours
are calculated as a day’s work. The time spent
in preparing engines for the trip and putting them
away after the trip is over (three-quarters of an
hour or an hour) is now paid for. That is to say,
the men used to prepare and put away the engines
in their own time and were not paid for the work,
Now they do it in the State’s time, and are paid
for the work with the money that is deducted
from the amount paid them for the actual driving,
so being paid means the same amount of money
as not being paid.
“ D.H.R.” complains :
The N.S.W. Advances to Settlers Board is a delusion
and a snare, and a thing deserving of many adjectives.
Its wheels and other parts want lubricating with an axe,
and its drivers want remarks about “Awake! arise”
made to them in a voice like Baker abusing a poet. There
are too many flies on it, and it doesn’t revolve fast enough
to blow them off. If a settler who sees a good business
possibility ahead, and wants money, applies to the Board,'
it is six months, or thereabouts, before he gets a reply ;
and by that time Che deal is “ off,” and the money useless.
I have known two or three such cases. The applicants
were all deserving characters, who had good grass, and
plenty of improvements on their places to warrant any
money-lending office granting them a loan, but through
red-tapeism they missed the tide that leads on to fortune
and sheep. This is not the way for a country to go ahead.
A mortgage is not a mummy to which 1000 years or so
don’t matter.
Lloyds Weekly (London) tells the story
of a Battersea tradesman who went to the country
which, according to our wildly ignorant Bruce
Smith, welcomes all immigrants with open arms
and asks no questions at all: —
For reasons of his own the gentleman in question took
a steerage passage to New York. Except that the great
majority of his companions were Russians and Germans,
the voyage out was fairly comfortable. His troubles
commenced when he arrived under the shadow of the
famous statue of Liberty. He went ashore on Ellis Island,
confident in the possession of sufficient money to satisfy
the inquisitive officials that he was not an undesirable
alien. He was asked his age. Like a true-born English
man he told the truth, and the figures “ 51 ” were imme-
diately chalked on his left shoulder. Having passed the
doctor, to whom he bad to present himself almost in a
state of nature, our friend thought he was safe, but to his
great disgust he was informed that his 51 years were a bar
to his admission to New York. This was on a Sunday
morning, and until the following Tuesday he was kept
inside a wire-protected enclosure, through which he
talked to the friends he had gone over to see. Not until
one of these, having proved to the satisfaction of a certain
official that he was a man of means, became security for
him, was he released. One of his companions—a Welsh-
man__Was less fortunate. Although he put down £5O in
front of the officials, he was sent back because he had a
slight malformation of the shoulder.
Australia at all events didn’t make.chalk marks
on the backs of the Six Hatters or whitewash
lar 0 e figures oli the spine of the Petriana myth.
Knox, M.H.R., is president of a Chamber
of Commerce, and his opinion of the importance
of Chambers of Commerce is as large as a pyra-
Recent]y he desired to know if these bodies
would be consulted about the new mail contract,
and seemed quite hurt to learn that members of a
Chamber of Commerce would just be consulted to
the same extent as any other electors, and that
the fact that some electors had formed themselves
j n t 0 a Chamber of Commerce, or a Shakspuarean
society, or a Josh Billings society, or a Mothers’
Meeting made no difference,
N.S.W. State Premier Carruthers cry for
secession because 12 senators out of 36 suggested
cutting down the vote for Sydney Government
House (and afterwards withdrew the suggestion),
and his sudden, agonised dog-yelp about the
“cup of iniquity” being heaped up, is m-
teresting in view of the fact that Carruthers
lately gave notice to terminate the arrange-
ment whereby Sydney Government House is
reserved for the Governor-General and partly
paid for by the Commonwealth. The 12
senators simply proposed to take Bad Boy Car-
ruthers at his word. Of course that screaming
public kid was just as angry at being taken seri-
ously as he would have been at not being taken
seriously. Everything the Australian Parliament
does or proposes, or neglects to do or propose sets
Carruthers off in his old role of the cross and m-
sufficiently-spanked infant
During the L.O.L. s recent wild howl
against the Federal Parliament’s Home Rule reso-
lution, in Melbourne, Wilks. M.H.R., rose up to
screech :
it wa s not Home Rule that was wanted, but a common
rule to mind our own business, and not interfere with
other people’s business.
This is the same inefficient bigot who minded his
own business by bringing the subject of Premier
Barton’s visit to the Pope into Parliament; whose
chief claim to fame is that he’s keen in discovering
the awful fact that some policemen wears a green
shamrock under his tunic, that another public
servant raised his hat to Cardinal Moran, or that
a Government charwoman had been heard to state
that yellow was a color that wouldn’t wash. Wilks
is Australia’s champion meddler in other people s
business, when such meddling is small and mean,
He beats even Woolls Rutledge and Joseph Car-
ruthers at that,
The Sydney TELEGRAPH seems to make a
point of telling every possible lie about the
Federal Government. On Tuesday of last week
, a , ,1 ,
the Senate, against the strongest representatio
of the members of the Government, cut down tne
vote for Sydney Government House by £lOOO.
Q n Thursday, in deference to a special and urgent
request f rom tbe Government, which had also
A- , nrPv ionsl v absent members the amount
And the
Telegraph, lying as usual, headed its account of
the Thursday’s proceedings:—“Federal Govern-
ment House. Vote for the Sydney Establish-
ment. That £lOOO Reduction. The Government
Relent.” The misleading headline is not a matter
for surprise. The only surprising thing is that the
substance of the report, which gives the lie to the
heading, should be almost true.


YOU Get Our Good Boots.
WE Get Your Good Will.
¥ CALLAGHAN BOOT
In fine Glace Kid, to button or lace,
stylish patent caps, pointed or medium
toes.
FOR
LADIES.
fit can’t be beaten for 15/11
POST
FREE
16/6
DUTY
FREE
including West Australia.
We exchange Boots or Shoes, or we refund money if
desired ; you can therefore see and FIT ON our
goods without being compelled to buy.
' ■ -I"
The above is a striking example of our “ character ” Boots. It is just what you need
for a stylish, latest fashion Boot. All our Boots and Shoes are made to fit the taste of
ladies who wish to dress their feet gracefully.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Send for our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE—Posted Free.
n
5s
■SS->
A GIFT
Z ■£
O
c CO £
" < |
UJ =
CO
Inexpensive.
HARRINGTON’
Popular Price . .
Magazine Hand Cameras .
1905
MODEL
CRACKSHOT
716
A genuine, serviceable little
instrument for making nice
Photos.; size of picture,
3J x 2vr in. ; suitable for Por-
traits, views, &c. Carries Six
Plates in Magazine ; with
simple instructions. Packed
and posted to any address in
Australasia, 8/6.
.905 Mode. CANTOR ro/6
Of similar construction as Crackshot, but takes Photos
x 3Jin. Carries six Plates in Magazine. Packed and
Posted to any address in Australasia. Price 12/-.
1905
Model
METEOR ISi-
Takes Photos. 4J x 3J in., and has Magazine
capacity to carry 12 Plates. Packed & posted
to any address in Australasia. Price 16/6.
The Most Popular Camera in Australasia.
An up-to-date Popular-Price Camera, suit-
able for Lady or Gentleman. Takes Photos.
4 1 x 3£in., and will photograph almost
anything. Carries 12 Plates or 24 Films in
Magazine. Simple to operate. Has
advantage movements hitherto only found
in expensive cameras. There is absolutely
no Camera sold to equal the Victor at the
price. Packed and posted to any address
m Australasia, Price 31/6.
1905 Model
No. 1
VICTOR
30/-
Latest CATALOGUI
Free, i? Postage 85-
386 GEORGE ST.,
near G.P.0., SYDNEY.
93 Queen St., Brisbane.
!»* I X//#
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS
FOR THE COTTAGE
of the Artisan or City Clerk, the rough
shanty of the Pioneer Settler, the home-
stead of the Squatter, the fowlhouses
of the Poultry Fancier,
OR THE MANSION
of the City Magnate, Malthoid Roofing
is equally su table. F om the winter
cold of Kosciusko to the summer heat
of Hay, Malthoid suits all climates.
“Ifit is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.’
—Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS.
HEDLEY BUiTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W,
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.a.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb.,Vic.
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z,
WILL . AM SANDOVER & CO.. Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENCKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
A PHONOGRAPH AS A GIFT I
As the setting sun closes in on 1905 the subject arises
in our minds “ Christmas Gifts for the loved ones, present
and absent—what shall I give?” What’s better than
a genuine
EDISON PHONOGRAPH ?
Fill in this form and we’ll send you our
CATALOGUE of PHONOGRAPHS.
Send me your Catalogues of Phonographs and Records.
Name
Address.
The Edison Gem Phonograph - -
The Edison Standard Phonograph -
The Edison Home Phonograph - -
- 50s*
- £4
- * £6
r'T*
®s§
won.
We will send one to any
address you name and
enclose a note or your
card.
RECORDS-1/6 ea.; 17/. a doz.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd
“MY OPTICIANS
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (facing Royal Hotel).
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
. . OF THE . .
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, 30 th SEPTEMBER, 1905.
LIABILITIES’.
Notes in Circulation .. £960,477 0 0
Deposits and accrued In-
terest 23,320,148 4 II
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
include Deserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amounts at Credit of In-
vestments Fluctuation Account and
Officers’ Fidelity, Guarantee and Pro-
vident Fund)
Paid-up Capital .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,400,000 0 0
Profit and Lots .. 152,197 5 5
-£24,280,625 4 11
2,564,815 15 4
3,552,197 5 5
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits, as per Contra
£30,397,638 5 8
556,254 5 0
£30.953,892 10 8
122,226
32,430
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances .. ..£5,189,252 6 11
Queensland Government
Notes
Notes of other Banks .
Money at short call in
London
Investments British
and Colonial Govern
ment Securities
Municipal and other
Securities
Due by other Banks
Bills Receivable
London and Remit
tances in transit
990,000 0 0
1,724,246 18 0
157,238 7
52,562 8
1,881,315 10 0
Bills Discounted, and Loans and Ad-
£10,749,340 10 10
vances to Customers
Bank Premises
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit as per Contra
18,942,297 14 10
706,000 0 0
£30,397,688 5 8
556,254 5 0
£30,953,892 10 8
Dr.
PROFIT AND 3Qth SEPTEMBER, 1905.
Or.
To Rebate (at current rates) on Bills Dis-
counted not due at this date .. .. £8,964 15 1
Balance proposed to be dealt
with as follows :
To Dividend at the rate of 10
per cent, per annum ..£lOO,OOO 0 0
~ Augmentation of the
Reserve Fund .. .. 25,000 0 0
„ Balance carried forward 18,232 10 4
143,232 10 4
£152,197 5 5
By Amount from last Account .. ..£16,269 14 5
» Balance of Half-year’s Profits after pro-
viding- for Bad and Doubtful Debts,
Fluctuations in the Value of Invest-
ment Securities, reducing the Valua-
tion of Bank Premises, and including
Recoveries from Debts previously
written off as bad 135,92711 0
£152,197 5 5
Dr.
RESERVE FUND, 3Qth SEPTEMBER. 1905.
Or.
To Balance £1,425,030 0 0
(Of which £750,0(0 is invested in
British Governrnei t Securities, and
the balance is employed in the busi-
ness of the Bank.)
£1,425,000 0 0
U.v Balance £1,400,000 0 0
~ Amount from Profit and Loss.. .. 25,000 0 0
£1,425,000 0 0
By Balance £1,425,000 0 0
J. RUSS ILL FRENCH, General Manager.
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous
Farms of
South Africa.
Black. White,
Cream and
Black tipped
with White.
5/-
the Bunch,
Post Free.
Two Superior Black Tips
Length 10 inches.
No costume is complete
without a feather boa.
Choice Natural Boas, 30/-, 42/- Length 1J yards.
Write to-day Send postal notes:
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. STRAND ARCADE, PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne. Illustrated Price List Post Free.
[When writing, please mention The Bulletin.]
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
r
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
• Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Remarkable Testimony.
A Newcastle Lady’s Experience. Twice Given
up by the Doctors, and Twice Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root .Pills Prove Sucessful.
Mrs. Elizabeth Lightfoot, of Lambton Heights,
Newcastle, N.S.W., relates a story which is often
told by women ; of suffering for years from habitual
constipation, dreadful headaches, general debility,
and subsequently from a bad leg. How Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills restored her to health,
and healed the running sores when doctors’ efforts
failed, is best told in her letter which bears her
signature, attested to by a Justice of the Peace.
“ For over four years,” she states, “I was in bad
health and suffered dreadfully from constipation,
severe headaches, and general debility. I took all
kinds of medicine, and
my doctor prescribed
for many months. He
could practically do
nothing for me, and
finally advised me to
take an opening medi-
cine regularly. I tried
many pills and reme-
dies, but I failed to
gain any benefit beyond
the temporary move-
ment of the bowels.
The local storekeeper
one day advised me to
try llr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. I had no
faith in pills, but I tried
them, and the first
couple of doses seemed
to have a wonderful
effect, I continued with
Mrs. Ligiitfoot,
(from a photo.)
them, and I can truly say they gave me every
encouragement. I soon regained my strength
and activity, and was free from headaches and
dizziness, and my system became regular in every
way. This all happened about four years ago.
Some time since, having discontinued your pills
altogether, I had a breaking out on my leg, which
extended from the ankle to the knee. I used
various ointments, but finding they had no
deterring effect I consulted the doctors, who
treated me for some months, but they failed to do
me any good, and advised me to lay up or go to
the hospital for treatment. It was only as a last
resource that I thought of your pills (having
previously been under the impression pills were
only purgatives). I commenced taking them
regularly, and gradually my leg got better, and in
a few months entirely healed. This wonderful
cure entitles them to every credit for their blood
purifying and healing properties. I have since
used them regularly once or twice a week, and I
have much pleasure in recommending your pills as
a household medicine for children and adults, and
especially for mothers under all conditions. lam
giving this unsolicited testimonial as a debt of
gratitude to you, and you may use it in any way
you wish.—Mrs. Elizabeth" Lightfoot.” Sub-
scribed and declared at Lambton, N.S.W., this
third day of June, one thousand nine hundred and
five, before me, George E. Hardy, J.P.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are not simply
purgatives. They contain more important
properties which act directly on the liver, kidneys,
and blood : correcting, purifying, and restoring
the whole system to health and strength. The
many wonderful cures effected by these pills
have awakened the interest of all clases to the
curative, cleansing, and healing properties, and to-
day Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are the family
remedy, not only of the miner and the artisan,
but of the niore wealthy, professional, and
independent section of the community.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-GeneraL
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices t
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Gehrs was responsible for a great upheaval at
his first appeal-shoe at the sticks after his return from
England. He played for the Port against Adelaide. The
latter declared its innings closed with four down for 309.
Then Gehrs took the willow, slogged three sixes, 23
fourers and many other things, carried his bat for 200,
and brought about the defeat of the metropolitan club.
* * * *
Playing against Waverley on the latter’s wicket
on Saturday the crack North Sydney team found itself up
against some of the smartest fielding seen this season.
People who are under the impression that O. Gregor3 7 is
played out should have seen him picking up the leather,
even when he had to hang himself over the fence side-
ways to reach it with his left; and they would have under-
stood that such a fielder is a good man to have in any
team. The wicket was certainly soft, but it appears to
have been the fielding which broke up the Northmen and
got them all out for 147. Five of them were caught, one
stumped, one run out, and only three bowled. Waverley
got to the sticks on a pitch that was slowly dr3 7 ing, and
bumped up 111 for the loss of three wickets. North’s
prospects look bluer than the miller’s daughter. Out at
St. Luke’s Park it certainly was boggy, and when the
Paddington captain won the toss he graciously waved
Burwood to the wickets, where Noble and Collins got
loose on them. Noble took five wickets for 26 runs, and
Collins five for 17. The remaining 13 were scored by a
player called Sundries—in fact, Sundries was the third
best scorer on the side. When Paddington got to the
wickets, in spite of the fact that it had a crowd of the
XI. playing, it didn’t shape a great deal better than Bur-
wood, and the mighty Trumper himself scored a duck.
Noble made 22, and the side vanished for 78, 22 more
than Burwood’s record. In Burwood’s second innings
Noble got four wickets for three runs, and Collins
one for 15, and the day ended with five wickets down
for 22. Evidently Gordon was a very considerable joint
in North Sydney’s late tail, for on Saturday it smashed
up Central Cumberland for 99, and then made 134 for the
loss of five wickets. The other late N.S. limb, Middle
Harbor, did not do so well against Redfern. The Syrian
suburb made 294, the biggest score of the day, and when
play stopped, Middle Harbor had replied with 17 runs for
one wicket. Considering the pitch Glebe made a fair
stand against Balmain, notching 120, but the Wilks
suburb responded gamely with 55 for five wickets,
although Glebe had the benefit of Cotter’s bowling.
Penman did some ferocious bowling for the University
against Sydney District, taking five wickets for 20, but
Sydney managed to make 180 notwithstanding. Present
‘prospects are that next Saturday will see the positions on
the premiership competition list evened up considerably.
* * * *
A feature of the Balmain-Glehe cricket match
on Saturday was the breaking out of Gorr3 7 . Of the five
wickets Balmain lost, four fell to Gorry, who stumped
three and caught one !
* * * *
Adelaide pressmen gave away their annual
cricket match with Parliament by 7 sheer good nature.
Last year most of the runs for the talkers were made by
E. H. Coombe, who is actually an editor, and ought to
have pla3 7 ed for both sides, or neither. This time he
was bowled for 0; but he took three of the pressmen’s
best wickets. Also, Parliament played a doorkeeper to
make up its side. He caught out the best bat among the
writers —a terrific chance at square-leg which no real
Parliamentarian would have been liked 7 to hold ; and
batting last (as a sub.) he made 13 himself, and helped
M‘Donald, M.H. A., to carry his bat for 64. And the Press
lost bv 27.
• • • *
The obstacle which has been hindering the
advancement of the Australian Cricket Board of Control
has been partly unveiled, and it leaks out that the oppo-
s tion comes from the section which is liked'to have its
wings clipped. The newly-formed Board is credited with
a desire to do away with the bigdiv. which the Australian
Eleven player has for a long time tied in the corner of
his handkerchief ; and, after paying the members of the
team a guaranteed sum, to distribute the remainder for
the benefit of cricket throughout the various States. The
idea is a good one, but it doesn’t arouse the mad en-
thusiasm of the blessed Eleven.
» * * *
Alan Marshal, a young Bananaland cricketer,
who didn’t shine lustrousd’ in Australia, did great things
for W. G. Grace’s London County team in minor matches
during the past season. He took top place in bowling—
-118 wickets at an average of 16'41 ; and was also above all
the opposition with 2752 runs, average 56'16.
* * * *
Australasian Amateur Swimming Champion-
ships meeting commenced at Brisbane Dry Dock, last
Saturday afternoon. The weather was cool and fine, and
Brisbane poured out its shekels and filled the available
space comfortably. Tbe Quarter Mile attracted seven
starters, who made a beautifully simultaneous dive off,
When they came up Kieran streaked away to the front
with Queenslander Springfield second and R. Healey
third. Kieran kept his lead with perfect ease and won by
2 (yd. from Springfield, who beat R. Heale3 7 by syd. The
champion made no effort and took smin. 37sec., which is
a lot slower than he usually 7 travels over the distance,
both the world and the Australian records being held by
him. The former is smin. 19sec. and the latter smin.
27sec. In the 2‘2oyd. Breast Stroke, Queenslander
Morrison stuck to Kieran gamely 7 till at three-quarters of
the distance the champion spurted and won by 7 12yd. in
the record time of 3min. 32.3-ssec.
* * * *
Australian cycle sports promoters are at their
wits’ ends to attract the people. The big Sydney meeting
last month was remarkable for its fine racing, its exciting
finishes, and absolutely perfect weather. Nevertheless,'
the “ hill” was a desert, and the empty benches of the
paying pavilions gibbered at the Summer Nights Syndi-
cate hke teeth in the naked skull of Impecuniosity. Then
the East Melbourne Bicymle Club’s meeting at Exhibition
Oval last w.eek also proved a frost, and the club is won-
dering why. In Sydney, tbe people who think nothing
can be a success without the foreigner said it was because
Yankee Ivor Lawson wasn’t racing. Well, he raced in
Melbourne, and he and MacFarland together didn’t seem
to draw a cent better than. MacFarland did on his
solitary in Sydney. A visible effect the Yankees
produced was that one of them roused some hoot-
ing ; but hooting didn’t fill the club’s coffers.
Evidently something will have to be done. In the event
of the promoters being unable to secure George Reid to
perform the Yes-No act on a unicycle driven by elec-
tricity, or Joe Cook to ride his own talking-machine, it
looks'as though a lot of the short mile sprints, which are
mostly loitering matches for the first 1000 yards, and a
wild rush over the last 760, will have to give way to longer
races with good lap prizes to make them fast. Writer
noticed that during the Sydney 7 carnival the interest used
.to rise to fever pitch during the Five Mile. There’s only
one gamble in a mile-run. A five mile race means changing
positions, men dropping out one by one,, desperate
struggles for the lap-prizes to pay drinking expenses
afterwards, and Chance and Accident cropping up like
the joker in a game of euchre. And it all makes for ex-
citement,, which is the thing that draws.
« * * *
Amateur cycling in Maoriland is now almost
extinct, smothered by the game wnich fills the pocket
instead of decorating the sideboard with pots of pewter
and other brummagem. The League of Wheelman has a
rule that amateurs wishing to join the cash section must
stand down for a year, and nine Canterbury amateurs—
said to be the last of the Mohican* —are now doing this
with enthusiasm in order to qualify for the higher cycling
life, so to speak.
* < * *■
S. A. League of Wheelmen has recovered by law,
for a city rider, £8 odd, won by him at a country sports
meeting last June. The sports committee had withheld
the prize because it suspected confederacy. At its first
inquiry it found that nothing could actually be proved,
but at its second it got an attack of suddenness, dis-
qualified all the riders, and held on to the prize money.
The decision for plaintiffs was given with admitted
reluctance by the local court Judge. Evidence, he said,
“ certainly pointed strongly to a concerted attempt to
obtain the prize money improperly ; it was a pity that
the committee muddled its inquir3 7 .”
- * * *
By the way, Mayer protests against his Bulletin
description as “Meyer, the Flying Jew.” The “a” has
been in the paternal name for generations, and the
Jewishness is repudiated with emphasis. He’s Mayer the
Flying German. Nevertheless he was christened Henri,
which is French.
* * * «
The cycling fete promoters’ combine has finally
decided to stick to its offer of £6 ss. per programme to
visiting “ stars,” so pie-biters Lawson and MacFarland will
either have to climb down or ride for the stakes only.
The combine runs 34 programmes during the season, which
pans out at nearly £220 to each rider, providing he is fit
enough to start every time ; besides this they have a
mortgage on the scratch prizes and a chance for the han-
dicap ditto. Lawson sulked in Sydney. At the E. Melb.
Club’s meeting they got their own terms, so that club
stands out of the combine ; but they w 7 ill have to make
lip their minds one wa3' or the other for the Austral
meeting. Rutt and Ma3'er are stated to have agreed, in
writing, to the combine’s terms. Meanwhile the local
stars, Farley, P3 7 e, and co., get no offer of even ss. appear-
ance money, let alone £6 ss.
» » * •
“ F.” : After all the recent talk of motor-racing,
this year’s Austral meeting—spread over five days at
Melbourne Exhibition oval—is bound to draw big crowds.
In the matter of genuine sporting interest, cycling is as
far ahead of motoring as boat-pulling is ahead of
3'achting. The man does the w 7 ork, not the machine
that carries him, and although, unhappily, the man is not
always a noble sport, he has to put in some good work at
one time or another if he wants to earn his corn at a
gathering of “ all the champions.” Since the early days
of Plugger Billmartin in Melbourne the crowd has never
had such a strong infusion of foreign competition in
an M. B. C. meeting as it is getting this year.
Mayer, Rutt, Lawson, MacFarland, and Samuelson
are a strong assortment of invaders, and if they don’t
have things too much their own v 7 a,v in competition with
the locals, they will be well worth their takings—to the
management. Seemingly they are expensive people,
these pedallers from foreign parts. And besides these
there are the Arnst brothers, of Maoriland.
* * * *
The Stinking Fish party has something to think
over in the fact that of the five motors which finished the
recent reliability run—under conditions unknown in
European tests—one car and engine were made, barring
tw 7 o insignificant details, from beginning to end in Mel-
bourne. Of all forms of modern engineering, a motor car
requires perhaps the greatest care and accuracy and
precision of workmanship. Yet it is impossible to attend
any public function without hearing stout persons arise
and contend that some such complicated article as a
clothes peg or a firelig-hter should be dragged across
14,000 miles of sea because Australia does not possess
workmen capable of turning it out.
■*■***
In the person of F. Hardens, N.S.W. League of
Wheelmen recently registered probably the lengthiest
pedal-pusher now in active revolution on this globe.
Hardens goes a bit over 6ft. 4in. in his socks, and it takes
41in. of tape to circle his chest. D. Ellis, a whilom
N.S.W. amateur champion, now retired, was even a
lengthier bikist. Ellis was a 6ft. 54in. streak of flying
humanit3', and was built in proportion.
It would be a most carefully built law that
Father Robinson would not find a way through, and the
Victorian Act forbidding lotteries seems to have been
slung together anyhow. When the snowy-haired pro-
moter first advertised an art union with a first prize of
£5OO he said nothing about drawing it at his bazaar.
Then the Attorney-General was asked how it was that
the genial father had got permission to run a lottery 7
when the law expressly forbade them. The Attorney-
General replied that he would not allow any lottery to be
run ; but that an art union in connection with a bazaar
was legal. Father Robinson rose to the occasion and
replied that his lottery was an art union. It was to be
drawn two or three weeks after the bazaar was over, but
he proposed to re-erect the bazaar for that night. So
last week a few stalls were run up in Melbourne Town
Hall, and a little bazaar was run while the art union was
drawn. It was supposed by most people that the art-
union tickets would admit holders to the drawing; but
they didn’t. Everybody 7 who entered the Hall had to buy
two more art-union tickets. So Father Robinson filled
his list up to the brim. The man who can give points to
a clever white-haired cleric knows enough to run a hotel.
* * * *
Some good sport is promised from the side-shows
incidental to the Weber-Buttan Singh wrestle at Fitz-
geralds’ Building (Melbourne), next Monday week. The
Olympic Club, which undertakes the management, is
young and full of enthusiasm. Pupils of rival teachers
are to have a go at wrestling, boxing, &c., prior to the big
struggle, and the ymungsters are training as though their
lives depended on the issue. One pair of bantam catch-
as-catch-can-ers are thought to be so evenly matched that
they will probably wrestle themselves to a simultaneous
stand-still or, rather, lie-still.
* ■* * *
. Wirth Bros, were more than generous in the
matter of the wrestling match fiasco which concluded
their Melbourne season. By the terms of the agreement
Weber and Gunga Brahm were to wrestle two or three
falls— i.e., either man had to win or lose two falls —for a
certain percentage of the takings, the winner to get
a lot more than the loser. Gunga Brahm broke the
agreement by refusing to wrestle any more after Weber
had downed him once. Clearly he was entitled to nothing
at all, but when the trouble was all over the slippery
Hindu received £l5 under the contract, just as though
he had fulfilled his share of it. The Wirths must be
heartily sick of the colored wrestlers by this time. Some
months ago Buttan Singh caused an uproar at the circus
by half-strangling y 7 oung Weher, in order to save the £lO
challenge money which he was bound to cash up if he
couldn’t turn the white man over within 15 minutes. The
other night Buttan’s old colleague Gunga disgusted the
audience by “ turning dog ” on Weber and the manage-
ment as aforesaid.
The wood-choppers’ Australian Cup meeting at
Latrobe (Tas.) produced some fine displays with the axe,
and Mangan (Tas.), although defeated in the first heat,
hung out long enough in the final to defeat Challis and
the rest of the opposition. It was a swift contest, and
the finish between six axemen was only a question of a
hit or two.
“Ed.”: My friend Abraham Noses says the
city flats reckon they’re smart, hut they’re not in the
same street with the country punters ; and he tells this
bitter experience : Mrs. Haystack owned a horse. She
said the horse was a sure thing, but that she’d stiffen him
for a consideration. This was agreed to by the book from
the city. Diana Haystack said that, as her friends were
all on her horse, she would take a £2O bet about it, for
the look of the thing, and to avert the calamitous finger
of suspicion. This was agreed to. The country crowd
avalanched on to the dead ’un, which started at three’s.
He didn’t get too good a start, and at the distance was
apparently out of it. The crowd was getting read3 7 to
jump on itself, when Mrs. Ha3 7 stack’s horse came with a
rush and cleared out from the field, finishing first, the
rest nowhere. The bookmaker went off to have a solo-fit
when he saw the first ticket rushed in was that handed
up by Mrs. Diana Haystack herself.
■* •* * *
Wren, the King of Collingwood, announces that
he has taken over the sole control and management of
Melbourne's pony racecourses, with a view to elevating
the malodorous “sport” of pony-racing to “a height
hitherto unattainable ” in Victoria. He promises to do
this “ by the energetic application and exercise of experi-
enced watchfulness and rigorous action,” which is much
the same thing as saying that his vigilance will be of the
same brand as is used in safeguarding the Collingwood
tote.
* * * *
The heavy downpour of rain in Melbourne,
which brought about the postponement of the opening of
thb Austral meeting, did not prevent the rowing of the
pair-oar championship. The Mercantile crew finished
first, with Hawthorn second, and Seymour, away to
glory, third. It was a tough struggle, and the boats,
being filled with rain water, were very crazy.
* * * *
Sydney’s Prince Alfred Yacht Club “did the
thing properly ” on Saturday, and carried out two pro-
grammes simultaneously. The yachts contested the first
of the three races which decide the club championship
for the year over a course which meant practically twice
round the Harbor. The cruisers had a handicap for the
usual spoils. Of the remaining two championship races
one will be an ocean race. Fleetwing went to the
front, but at Bradley’s Head Petrel forged ahead, and
went right across the Harbor. When they came together
at the lightship Petrel was first, with Sunbeam, Magic,
Fleetwing, Culwulla and three others in that order. At
the buoy 7 there were changes of position in the rear-
guard, but the first three kept their sequence. Then
Sunbeam ran past Petrel, and led round Shark Island.
At the alleged fort, Magic was a second in front of Petrel,
and Culwulla had slipped into fourth place. The
nor’-easter had turned black by the time the second thresh
down the Harbor commenced, and the yachts folded
their extras like wings. Petrel kept the topsail aloft and
went plunging through it, passing Magic and gaining on
Sunbeam, which tore through the water in front. Bound
the Pile Light and back to Shark Island they 7 flew,
Sunbeam still in front, and away to the finishing line,
Sunbeam was Still ahead. But when the times were
worked out it was found that Petrel had won the race,
with Scotia second and Sunbeam third. It was a lovely
race, and on board the following steamer the club had
provided music and refreshments which lent a glory and
a sheen to the race through the gray seething water.
* » * *
The Sydney Amateur, the Dingy, and the Skiff
Clubs alTheld races on Saturday afternoon on Port Jack-
son. At the first a pleasant nor’-easter made for ideal
conditions, but as the afternoon wore on it increased in
intensity till it turned “ black,” and then capsizes became
the order of the going, and there was joy to those who
laid the odds.
* * * IT
It is now proposed by members of the Motor
Boat Club of N.S.W. to hold a “ reliability test ” from
Sydney to Newcastle towards the end of the season. The
idea is a splendid one, as there are quiteenough sea-worthy
craft on the. Club’s register to make a good “ field,” and
the actual contest should be about the most thrilling
event in Australasian sporting history up to date. The
big French club at Marseilles held one of these ocean
reliability tests last season, but the boats ran into a
terrific gale, and the torpedo craft which followed the
test did good work rescuing the testers.
American champion sprinter Arthur Duffey,
who was beaten at Sydney Cricket Ground by 7 Nigel
Barker, has definitely retired from the track and joined
the sporting staff of a U.S.A. magazine. He was an-
nounced to begin his new career-by showing in cold type
how he managed to travel round the world and live on
the fat of the land wherever he went as a lily-white
amateur. All of wiiich will be interesting ; but if Arthur
Duffe.v wants to make a real scoop he should write a book
explaining how he managed to avoid being found out till
his hind leg's lost their cunning and he realised that the
time had come to retire. There is not likely to be any-
thing new in the exposure—merely the old tale of secret
appearance money and a double-extra stretching of the
term “ expenses.”
Judging by the meagre telegraphic reports, the
Kalgoorlie “Hundred” meeting was a huge success.
Four thousand people were present the opening night,
and a limited number of bookmakers were licensed to
operate. Betting was colossal for an athletic meeting,
and a whole library of books was opened on the
“ Hundred.” E. R. Terry and Arthur Postle were
favorites at 3 and 5 to 1 against them. Jarvis came next
at 6 to 1, and as much as 20 and 33 to 1 were on offt-r
against the outsiders. Six thousand people rolled up to
see the final. Arthur Postle never gained a place, and A.
S. Jarvis, on the 10yd,, finished first, with E. R. Terry
second. R. Mitchell, the third man, was, as far as the
betting was concerned, an outsider, while 16 to 1 was
offered against M‘Martin, who ran fourth.
No, we don’t really appreciate golf in this
country. In the recent international match for £4OO,
Taylor (Englishman) landed a ball on a grass slope, and it
began to roll away towards a sand-pit. There were 10,000
people watching, and, says the London Daily Express,
“ there was a minute of agony for the Englishmen pre-
sent, but the Scots all the time were screaming in frantic
g'lee, stopping suddenly with a half-stifled sigh of disap-
pointment as the ball came to a standstill on the very
edge.” You couldn’t find 10,000 people in the whole
Commonwealth who would scream over a golf ball if it
were dropping into Hades.
* * * *
Maoriland Boxing Association proposes to
borrow three first-class professional boxers froth Aus-
tralia next season to give exhibitions and generally
instruct the y 7 oung Maorilander how to stoush. With the
fire and general lust of butchery that infects the Maori-
land blood, the venture will no doubt prove a paying one
for the instructing pugs, if they live to enjoy the profits.
The Whitelaw-Rollo scrap at Sydney National
Sporting Club was brief and humorous. Rollo was evi-
dently under the impression that the people were there to
be entertained, and he did his best to amuse them accord-
ingly. He fought his battle as George Reid would have
fought-it in his mind, and burlesqued the whole theory
and practice of stoush, duck, and side-step. Whitelaw,
evidently annoyed by this disrespectful behavior, was
unusually cautious and hit away steadily. Once he landed
Rollo on the jaw. Rollo threw up his arms, dropped to
the floor, turned a somersault or something, and bound-
ing up like an india-rubber ball uppercut Whitelaw on the
chin with the right, and swung the left round
to the jaw. It was a neat bit of business. White-
law grew more dour, and met a series of rushes
with straight pokes which sent the dancing dervish to
the floor. Every time Rollo went down Whitelaw
moved rapidly away, afraid of the rebounding trick. In
the third act Whitelaw managed to bang Rollo on the
jaw just as he was in mid-air doing a balloon act. The
effect was electrical. Rollo rolled over and lay still till
he was safely counted out. The aerial act is not a success.
* * -* *
The retirement of champion Jim Jeffries has
brought out some strange and wonderful aspirants into
the Yankee ring. The latest is a giant Red Indian, weigh-
ing 25 stone. This incredible mass of meat has acted as a
sort of policeman in one of the Indian reservations. His
claim for fistic honors appears to rest on the fact that he
once knocked out and captured eight of his fellow-coun-
trymen who had painted themselves red with yellow
stripes, and uttered a strange arrangement of sounds,
and started to make thing's willing. But the men that
Lo, the poor Indian, is likely to meet in the ring are not
going to wait to be fallen on by half a ton of man. The
noble but elephantine savage will probably last about one
round when he meets a real boxer.
* * * *
A recent fight at Queen’s Hall, Melbourne, was
one of the most sudden things in the history of the busi-
ness. Fred Preston, the local heavyweight, whose left
punch is like a stroke of lightning, but who is a performer
of aldermanic proportions, met William Green, a coal-
puncher from Newcastle (N.S. W.), with a local reputation
of long standing. Green looked hard enough to knead
his tubby adversary up like dough in about half a round,
but the opposite thing happened, and Preston wiped Mr.
Green out in a most dramatic way in 2min lOsec. It was
science up against the other thing, and science visited
Mr. Green so often and so hard that the man from the
place where the coals come from was down five times in
the brief space mentioned, and wore the troubled and
hopeless expression of a man kicked by nine mules simul-
taneously. The police stopped the fight to prevent
further unnecessary bloodshed, and Preston was declared
the winner, while the gallery loudly execrated the judg-
ment of those who brought together the Unassorted pair.
* * * *
News of Kid M‘Coy comes from America.
Kid’s true name is an aristocratic one—Norman Selby.
On Oct. 19 he was married at the Algonquin Hotel, New
York, to Lillian E. Ellis (formerly the actress Lillian Earl),
widow of Edward C. Ellis, once proprietor of locomotive
works at Schenectady. “Mr. Selby ” announced after his
wedding that he had dropped the name of Kid M’Ooy for
ever. Quoth he (according to an American paper) : “ I
promised m3 7 wife that, when we were married, the
sporting life I had led would be left behind. I
have seen everything. Nothing in the long experience
I have had with sporting people appeals to me. With
that kind of life I am done. I intend to drop the name
M‘Cov for ever. I want m3 7 friends to know that it will
offend me if they so address me.” Yankee papers add
that M‘Coy (or Selby) has been a frequently married man.
He married his first wife (Julia Woodruff) three times, and
divorced her twice before she died. The new Mrs.
M’Selby is said to be richly gilded. She became a widow
in 1904.
“ Hamer” : Lord Jersey’s passage through
the streets of Sydney was done in quite a casual
way, but the reception from those who saw him
was cordial. The most enthusiastic person I came
across was an excited individual who grasped my
arm with one hand, wildly waving his hat witn
the other, and speaking volubly : “ What s the
matter? Hooray! Hooray! Who is it? Hooray!
Lord Jersey ? ’Oo the h—l is he ? Hooray !
Governor of Noo South Wales? When? Hooray !
Hooray !” I left him screaming after the retreat-
ing carriage—“ Hooray ! God save the King !
Alleluia ! Rule Britannia ! ”
A discussion in Vic. Assembly the other
day disclosed the figures and the real facts of
Bent’s Closer Settlement farce. The system has
been in operation almost a year, yet, so far, not
90 applicants for land have been settled thereon.
Ninety ! And there are 250 applicants calling at
the Board’s offices every week ! Out of 174 estates
offered only eight have been sufficiently cheap to
be worth buying, and they were mostly bought at
exorbitant prices, but then the other 1(36 landlords
were so much more exorbitant that the
eight looked cheap. Of these eight estates
half the blocks are still on the Board’s hands.
There exist compulsory purchase provisions—by a
resolution of both Houses —but the Board knows so
well that the Upper House won’t “ resolve ” that it
hasn’t attempted to use this alleged power.
Minister Murray practically admitted the failure
of the system —“Under it no provision is made
for the intelligent and industrious settler of small
means ; . . . the scheme merely enables a few
private owners to dispose of their estates to a sub-
stantial purchaser at remarkably good prices. ’ But
there is no promise of any move in the direction
of real settlement, a necessary predecessor of
which must be a cumulative land-tax.


The Pen Carbon Letter Book.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK/
A SHEET OF PAPER
AND A PEN CARBON BOOK
Makes a complete outfit with which any MAN, WOMAN or CHTT.D can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copv without leaving the slightest sign of copying on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank cheques. It leaves no vague,
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
It will save any house or family much money by its indisputable record.
S' te Agents (or
Australasia:
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE.
Agent for Victoria-ANPREW SHERAR & CO., 101-103 Elisabeth St., Melbourne.
Melbourne Bicycle Club*
EXHIBITION OVAL.
The . .
WORLD-RENOWNED ♦♦
AUSTRAL..
NEXT SATURDAY
DAY and NIGHT.
MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME, jt Code's Melbourne Military Band.
A Specially Prepared Souvenir Programme, 6d.
World's Champions competing—
HENRI lAYER WALTER RUTT.
No doubt you have been to a
Number of Australs —but
DON’T MISS THIS ONE!
Admission If-
Robert McCullogh, Secretary.
A REALLY USEFUL NOVELTY
“FIRST AID" BROOCH
Contains Needle, Pin and Supply of Black and
White Cotton.
Always Ready for an Emergency
when worn
Closed as
Open, showing Needle Pin and Cotton.
Fits into --aaSfe&v. the Brooch.
Only
m
3/6 Complete.
’AT OST ladies can recall critical moments when a needle
and thread would have been valued above diamonds.
This novel brooch fills a long-felt want, as it carries
pact repair outfit ready for any emergency. ~
ir „__ w . It is a Hand-
some and Attractive" Brooch" of excellent quality gold
plate, strongly made and set with the fashionable beautifully
iridescent American Qoldstone. Price only 3s. 6d. complete
In a velvet and satin lined case and posted to any address.
If you mention this paper when ordering we will present
with the brooch a neat and handy Glove Buttoner.
The Union lllfg. & Agency Go<i
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
G FITS ORDINARY
rWPHT VTEW
azor guard
SELF-SHAVING
is made
pleasant
by slipping 1 a “ Best ” Razor
Guard on to your own blade.
Fits any razor, and instantly con-
verts it into a Safety Razor that
is perfectly safe to use, even if
you never had a razor in your
hands before. Guard shields o r
face against the cutting edge—
insures your face against acci-
dents. With it your blade w
shave as smooth as velvet and
never scrape, cut, or even irritate
the most tender skin. Until you
have tried it you cannot know
the pleasure of shaving with
ease and comfort.
Price 2s. Mailed to any address in Australasia.
E. P. BREWER & CO.,
Cromwell Buildings, opposite G.P.O.
MELBOURNE.
□“BAGSHAWS
VITAL FORCE TABLETS
thelatest^bestto Hic
s>
*
$
Vi
//nof procuraaTe Zoca/Zy m/Z
tieposZecZ on rece/pZ oZ 2/3 Z?y
EASY
TO
CARRY,
EASYtoTAHF
pep Box
St 50 TABLETS
333
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUCCTSYDI
Jl
Very Old VatteA
w LiquxurWhlsky.
Distilled Scßottled by
Kilmarnock .Scotland.
SWELL SUITINGS *
AS WORN BY SYDNEY’S BEST-DRESSED MEN, who recognise our
style as authoritative. At a Price well within the reach of any man.
FASHIONS AND MASTERY OF DETAIL found only in the productions
of HIGH-CLASS EXPERT TAILORS.
Patterns, Fashion Plates, and my Measurement Forms —Post Free.
E. T. WALSH,
Merchant
Tailor,
359 GEOROE- ST., SYDNEY,
A.N.A. EXHIBITION A.N.A.
Manufactures of Australia .
The Productions of the Commonwealth .
OPENING DAY—Wednesday, December 20th
AT NOON, continues daily till TO p.m. for ONE MONTH.
Musical, Elocution, and Band Competitions,
Fireworks Displays. Balloon Ascent.
Military Tournaments. Theatricals.
Exhibits of Schools, Ladies, Apprentices and Students.
AGRICULTURAL GROUNDS
SYDNEY.
SEASON TICKETS—
Gents, 10s; Ladies, ss.
We don’t
say much,
but these
facts do.
/
//
mtii
r »*
3NB
‘‘Ols
' &lft:
'*>
es,
°Ur
Put
Hu
fly,
Off
°Un
W’er
*•O6
fltt
Atj
tied
oy e
>es
r H'fc
?«■
°JSarV o^t
Ty He
eb r
*'«/•
«//
H'e
°t/A,
°cf
*-Op
*it b
Tbl
tint
T y*
s ptn
ha
etht
rot
*S
Aloft
•tin
*n
•up
?«(/
*>(/
?«</
fPe
?*»
**«*
0/v«
th e
"e
Op
THE
DUNLOP
MAJORITY
13
out of
16
Following is a list of the sixteen contestants who “ signed on ” in Sydney
at finish of Contest, on November 18th :—Messrs. C. E. Liddell,
G. Hobbs, W. R. Grimwade, Jas. W. Moffat, W. B. Wilkinson,
W. Gordon-Dixon, A. Fauvel, H. L. Stevens, S. H. Day, H. Tarrant,
C. E. Witther, T. K. Rand, J. G. Coleman, E. James, H. Jenkins,
H. H. Hutchinson, and
43 out of the 16 used DUNLOP TYRES.
All Btatea.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUBTRALASIA, LTD.
With the object of assisting persons whom
most of them termed “adulterers”, the aitchless
Tory section of the Vic. Leg. Council succeeded in
carrying a motion to call business men to give
expert evidence regarding the gross injustice of
the Pure Food Bill, which aimed at crippling the
flourishing poisoning industry. It fell in badly.
All the witnesses, including the great F. T.
Derham, refused to support the Council’s views.
They announced that the principles of the Bill
were good and that they regarded poisoning the
public as rather reprehensible than otherwise. One
member has argued that all jam was made largely
from pumpkins and rightly so; but a jam-maker
who was called seemed to almost regard the
pumpkins as a personal reflection, and demanded a
Pure F'ood Bill so that his pure and unquestion-
able jam might not have to compete against other
men’s pumpkins. As a matter of fact, only a very
dull lot of Rich Landlordswould haveexpected any
manufacturer to declare publicly against an Anti-
Adulteration Bill, and thereby pour suspicion over
himself like tar. The proceedings left the House
with a gloomy doubt that Derham is in the pajr of
the Trades Hall, and it went home breathing
heavily about the Six Hatters.
A S.M. Herald leader on the Home Rule
motion in the Representatives makes it appear
that Gladstone’s Home Rule Bills were rejected by
Parliament and by people, and most of the Yellow
Pup orators hold forth in the same absurd strain.
Gladstone’s Bill of 1886 was rejected by the House
of Commons on the second reading. Gladstone
went to the country on it and was defeated. But
on returning to power he introduced his second
Home Rule Bill in 1893. The second reading of
that Bill in the House of Commons wa,s carried
by a majority of 43, and the third reading by a
majority of 41. The Bill went to the House of
Lords, and was there thrown , out by 419 votes to
41, all the paralysed old peers being brought down
in bath chairs, and the deranged peers being
brought along by their keepers, and the newly-
dead peers who hadn’t been buried yet being
carried in by their executors to vote against Ireland’s
freedom. Soon afterwards Gladstone retired
from the post of Prime Minister, and Rosebery
succeeded. It was therefore the Lords, not the
Commons or the people, who destroyed the Home
Rule Bill with which Gladstone’s memory is
identified.


A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING MUG,
Pure Silver-Plated, 20s.
Other Styles, .
13s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearls and
Rubies or Sapphires, 12s 6d.
Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, 255.
New Zealand Greenstone Pearl Set BAR BROOCH,
CHAIN, and BELT, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold TUSK BROOCH,
CHAIN and HEART, 15s.
Without Heart and Chain, his
\. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold WISHBONE BROOCH,
Pearl or Turquoise, 15s.
OUR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
We send it to any
address Postage Paid
if you ask for it.
Its perusal will help
you, and give you a
very good idea of the
enormous stock we
carry.
A. SAUNDERS.
OUR HANDSOME
CATALOGUE.
A Post Card will bring
you a Copy.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Double Crescent BROOCH,
Set Pure White Pearls, £2 15s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy CURB PADLOCK BRACELET,
Safety Chain attached, 40s.
Larger, £2 10s. Smaller 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and New Zealand
Greenstone HEART BROOCH,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Diamond and Ruby or Sapphire, 355.
OUR MAIL ORDER
DEPARTMENT.
To Country Customers,
our Up-to-Date Mail
Order system assures
you prompt and
satisfactory service
without leaving your
own home.
J ,|
A. SAUNDERS. mTRCSp
Crocodile or Seal Leather PURSE
and CARD CASK,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock, los oa.
Other Styles, ,
4s 6d, 5s Od, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold DRESS
king,
Ruby and Pearls,
12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, 22s bd.
LADY’S,
15s.
LADY’S,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face
KEYLESS WATCHES,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255, 30s, £2.
Our “Nurses’ ” Watch, 255.
Specially Recommended.
i A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold SPRAY BROOCH,
Set Fine Pure White Pearls, £2 6s.
A. SAUNDERS
9ct. Solid Gold
SIGNET RING, 20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold SPRAY BROOCH,
Set Pearls and Turquoise, £2 10s.
Diamonds and Rubies and Sapphires,
£8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CLOTH or HAT BRUSH,
Long White Bristles, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold CLUSTER BROOCH,
Pure Diamonds and Ruby
or Sapphire Centre, £lO.
All Diamonds, £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TIE CLIP,
2s 6d, 3s 6d.
Solid Gold, 12s 6d.
Chased, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Amethyst
or Garnet, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
18ct. Gold, £2 10s.
SILVER,
30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s High Grade Solid Silver
KEYLESS WATCHES,
255, SOs, £2, £2 10s.
Solid Gold, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 4s, £4 10s,
£5 10s, £6 10s.
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
16ct. Gold Diamond and Rubies
or Sapphires, £2 10s.
Three Diamonds, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Diamond
and Rubies
or Sapphires, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Half Hoop RING,
Diamonds and
Rubies
or Sapphires, £2.
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN
PURSE, 8s Cd.
Silver Filled, Os 6d.
Gold Filled, 22s 6d.
Solid Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Pearl and Opal or Turquoise
PADLOCK BRACELET, £3 ss.
15ct. Gold. £5.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart,
Gold Mounted, 8s 6d.
Smaller, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
Larger, 10a.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Four Heart Opals
and Pearls, 35s.
15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
18ct. Gold Half Hoop
RING, Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3.
Larger Stones*
£3 10s, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold RING,
Pure Double Gut
Diamond and
Rubies
or Sapphires £7 10s
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Combination SHAVING BRUSH
and SOAP HOLDER, 15s 6d.
Soap fits in Handle.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BRACELET, Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphire, £4 10s. Three Diamonds, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MANICURE SET,
Comprising Three Piece®, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 355,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 12s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d.
I
A. u'NDERS.
9ct. Gold PIN
CHAIN and N.Z.
Greenstone Heart,
8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin TOBACCO POUCH,
Best Rubber Lining,
Pure Silver Shield, 4s 6d.
Other Styles,
4s, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
8s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
. Gold Oval LINKS, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2.
Extra Heavy, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold BRACELET, Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3 15s. 15ct. Gold, £5 ss.
All Diamonds, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Cherub Design HAIR BRUSH,
Extra Long White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
NICKEL,
15s.
NICKEL,
20s.
ft
/
N
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Gunmetal or Nickel Open Face
Keyless WATCHES, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s. Our “Unrivalled” 20s London Lever,
255. All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather
CIGARETTE CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 20s.
Others, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Crocodile Leather PURSE, Extra Heavy
Solid Silver Mounts and Locks, 27s 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Love Bird BROOCH, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold. 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Mounted
Bloodstone or Sardonyx
SEAL PENDANT, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR BUTTON BOX,
Pure Silver-Plated, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s POCKET-BOOK, Crocodile
Leather, Pure Silver Mounts and Locks, 20s.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 255.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2/10
GOLD
CASED,
£4/4
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
£2, ' £2' 10s, £3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
Gold Filled, £3 3s, £4 4s, £5 ss,
£6 10s. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s,
A. SAUNDERS
j SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER, )
l SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN. j
809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


Beale
Australian
Pianos.
. »oq£ I -rc3llßS>- j° o ‘
SOME INCONTROVERTIBLE TESTIMONY.
The following very much condensed remarks are taken at random from our Visitors’ Book at Annandale,
and will suffice to convince anyone as to the excellent methods of manufacture and the quality of the
article turned out:—
Hon. ALFRED DEAKIN, K. 0., M.P., Prime Minister. —
“ The pianos themselves contain many trophies of inven-
tive skill of a high order, and are finished in an artistic
style, which reflects every credit upon the firm and its
employees. lam not acquainted with any local industry
of higher class, more encouraging prospects, or which
better deserves the marked success it has won.”
Rt,. Hon. O. O. KINGSTON, P. 0., K. 0., then Minister
of Customs.—“ Very pleased with all I have seen.”
Hon. Sir WM. J. LYNE, Minister of Customs.—“ Can-
not speak too highly as to their excellent quality.”
Rt. Hon. Sir E. BARTON, P.C., K.C., G.0.M.C., Senior
Puisne Judge Federal High Court.—“ The most modern
appliances, well-paid skill and unremitting care.”
Hon. Sir JOHN SEE, K.C.M.G., ex-Premier of N.S.W.—
“ An establishment that reflects the greatest credit upon
the firm.”
Hon. WALTER JAMES, Agent-General for W.A. —
" The most convincing protectionist argument in the
Commonwealth. On my visit to Sydney I had no more
pleasant experience than that afforded by an inspection
of the works and factory. I was astonished to see the
class of work done.”
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RUTLEDGE, K.C.M.G., Q.— “An
industry rich in promise for the prosperity of New South
Wales. The perfect method of uniform extraction of the
sap from the timber without injuring the fibres will
enable the wood to resist all climatic influences. It is
the only perfect system I have met with in Australia.”
Hon. J. G. JENKINS, ex-Premier of S.A.—“Them’s my
sentiments, too.” ,
Hon. E. W. O’SULLIVAN, ex-Mmister of Works,
Kf.S.W.—“ The pianos are superier to any imported.”
Hon. T. WADDELL, ex-State Treasurer, N.S.W.—“A
great manufacturing enterprise.”
Hon. JOHN PERRY, ex-Minister for Public Instruction,
N.S. W. —“ More than surprised.”
Hon. JOHN KIDD, ex-Ministerof Mines and Agriculture,
N.S.W. —“ Greatly impressed with the magnitude of the
works.” ■ T „
Hon. Sir F. B. SUTTOR, ex-President Legislative Coun-
cil.— 11 Every success to those who have established'such
works.”
Hon. JAS. HAYES, N.S.W.—“ Superior to anything of
the kind I have ever seen.”
The late Senator ROBERT REID, President Chamber
Commerce, Melbourne. —“ The splendid patent iron
frames are a great success.”
His Eminence CARDINAL MORAN, Archbishop of
Svdney.— “ Had no idea that in the musical department
such perfection had been attained.”
Rev. RAINSFORD BAVIN, ex-president N.S. W. Confer-
ence Methodist Church.—“ A splendid proof of Australian
spirit, ability and enterprise.”
Hon. J. B. NASH, M.D., M.L.C., N.S.W.—“Musical
instruments of excellent quality and workmanship.”
Hon. A. W. MEEKS, M.L.A., N.S.W.—“ Surprised at
the magnitude of the undertaking."
Rev. WM. G. TAYLOR, Superintendent Central Metho-
dist Mission, Sydney.—“ Why import pianos when we
have amongst us so up-to-date an establishment?”
Rev. GEO. CAMPBELL, Chairman Congregational
Union of N.S.W., 1902. —“ A delightful surprise. Worthy
all commendation and encouragement.”
Rev. Dr. MARDEN, M.A., Principal Presbyterian
Ladies’ College, Croydon, N.S.W.—“ Thoroughness and
attention to detail throughout.”
Colonel ORLANDO H. BAKER, American Consul.—
“ Surprised to find such extensive and complete works in
Sydney.”
J. S. LARKE, Esq., Commissioner for Canada.—
“ Surprised at the efficient organisation of every depart-
ment.”
Rt. Hon. the ex-Lord Mayor of Sydney, Aid. THOMAS
HUGHES.—“Beyond all praise.”
F. B. FREEHILL, Esq., Consul for Spain, Sydney.—
“ Astonished and delighted to find in our midst an estab-
lishment affording such evidence of great enterprise.”
J. BARRE JOHNSTON, Esq., President Chamber of
Commerce, Sydney.—“ The expert knowledge displayed
is not surpassed in any part of the world.”
J. P. WRIGHT, Esq., J.P., President Chamber of
Manufactures of N.S.W.—“ Have never seen in Europe or
America such a combination for the production of pianos
of the highest class.”
A. W. SCOTT, Esq. (Messrs. Parsons Bros.), Sydney.—
“ Most up-to-date and complete ; an object lesson to all.”
EDWARD RILEY, Esq., President of Sydney Labor
Council.—“ Thoroughness and high-class workmanship
through every branch.”
WM. MARTIN, Esq., President Australian Natives’
Association, N.S.W.—“ Having seen large establishments
of the kind in other parts of the world, was much struck
with the complete system and organisation.”
GEO. T. CLARKE, Esq., President United Friendly
Societies’ Association, N.S.W.—“ First-class pianos, rich
in tone, and specially durable for our climate.”
Ex-ALDERMAN J. D. FITZGERALD, Sydney City Coun-
cil.—“ The firm turns out a ‘ native’ instrument which
will take its place in the world’s concert rooms.”
ALDERMAN T. H. BARLOW, Sydney City Count'd.—
“ I had little idea of the magnitude of the works.”
LEWIS DE GROEN, Esq., Conductor of Music to his
Excellency the Governor-General.—“ No question as to
high quality of materials, and extreme care shown
throughout.”
PROFESSOR ENNIS, Mus. D. (London), of the Ade-
laide Conservatorium of Music.—“ The tone of the instru-
ments I have seen is excellent, possessing no wiry or
metallic quality.”
Hon. J. HUME COOK, M.H.R., who was presented
with a Beale Piano by his colleagues on the occasion of
his marriage.—“ One could not wish for a better instru-
ment. After some 14 months’ wear it is still in perfect
tune, and its tone as rich and mellow as the most fas-
tidious could desire. All are unanimous in its praise."
The following ladies and gentleman are some of the thousands of purchasers of Beale Australian Pianos, and
have expressed to us the most unreserved satisfaction ; but owing to lack of space we are unable to give
more than the briefest quotation in each case. We shall be pleased to supply copies of their testimonials
to inquirers /
JOHN TOMS, Esq., Hawthorn Farm, Millthorpe,
N.S.W.—“ Quite satisfied ; think such an instrument
will last lifetime.”
Mrs. E. MTHERSON, “Glen Avon,” Hinton, N.S.W.—
** Can highly recommend as first class.”
V. E. HECTOR, Esq., Niagara-st., Armidale, N.S.W.—
* , *l‘iie best I have ever seen or heard.”
CHAS. READ, Esq., Railway-st., Petersham, N.S.W.,—
* Every satisfaction, and is all you promised it would he.”
THOS. GREENTREE, Esq., Plump ton, N.S.W.—'“ Has
more than satisfied me.”
Mrs. CLARA JONES, 66 Sydney-st., Newcastle, N.S.W.
.—“ A splendid instrument, both in tone and finish.”
Miss M. A. ANNESLY, Portland, N.S.W.—“ Most
beautiful ; pure and sympathetic tone and splendid
touch.”
J. B. NEWLAND, Esq., Canowindra, N.S.W.—“I am
highly pleased with it; has a beautiful tone.”
CHAS. 0. MONTROSE, Esq., Taylor street, Kogarah,
N.S.W.—“Positive that any buyer will be more than
satisfied.”
Mrs. J. TURNBULL, Rowntree-st., Balmain, N.S.W.—
It gives the highest satisfaction. Will take pleasure in
recommending.”
N. BULFIN, Esq., Liverpool-st., Sydney, N.S.W.—
“ Entirely to my satisfaction, being beautifully toned and
pleasant to play upon.”
RICHARD PILLIDGE, Esq., Largs, N.S.W.—“ It is
reckoned the best piano about this district.”
W. CREAMER, Esq. (of Creamer and Genders’ Band),
Young-street, Annandale, N.S.W. —“ Delighted with the
piano in every way. I never played a finer piano in all
my experience.”
E. WILLIAMS, Esq., Kalibah, N.S.W..—“ Much plea-
sure in signifying my approval. Our friends all admire
it.”
WM. BANFIELD, Esq., Rose-st., Merewether, N.S.W.
-—“Very well satisfied. Will recommend to all.”
G. LEWIS, Esq., Wallsend, N.S.W.—“My friends all
speak in glowing terms, and pronounce it a first-class
piano.”
JAS. MURCHIE, Esq., “Tralee,” Exeter, N.S.W.—
' aives ever3' satisfaction. Can confidently recommend.”
E. W. THOMAS, Esq., Pitt-st., Redfern, N.S.W.—“ A
lendid instrument.”
, _rs. K. MADDISON, Close-st., Wallsend, N.S.W.—
*'bne of the best I have ever listened to.”
Mrs. J. FERGUSON, Elliott-st., Balmam, N.S.W.—
“ First rate musicians think it the best-toned piano they
have ever heard.”
S. JAMES, Esq., Lithgow, N.S.W.—“ Piano gives every
satisfaction.”
JAS. ROWN, Esq., Trafalgar-st., Annandale, N.S.W.—
“ Entire satisfaction. It lias no equal.”
Mrs. J. H. WORBOYS, Millthorpe, N.S.W.—“Never
heard better ; tone beaut.ful and clear as a bell.”
Mrs. E. J. PEK.*INS, Orange, N.S.W.—“ It has a very
rich tone, which .t has maintained, notwithstanding the
severity of this cold and changeable climate. I ha,ve come
in contact with many makers, but consider this piano
second to none.”
WM. RAVAILLION, Esq., Gunning, N.S.W.—“ There
are three striking features with your instrument ; Ist,
Workmanship—superb ; 2nd, Quality of tone —excellent;
3rd, Durability—certain.”
A. ASHTON SHORTER, Esq., Solicitor, Orange,
N.S.W. —“ Being a first-class instrument, needless to say
family are highly pleased.”
Miss E. M. LIPSCOMIiE, Eastgrove, Gcalburn, N.S.W.
-- “ Everyone who has seen or heard this instrument can-
not speak too highly of it.”
T. H. M‘DOWELL, Esq., Campb'dl-st., Surr.v Hills,
N.S.W.—“ A better instrument could not be found.”
.1. C. BURNS, Esq., Hathern-st., Leichhardt, N.S.W. —
“Giving the greatest satisfaction. It would give me
pleasure to see one in every home.”
W. A. BIRD, Esq., 75 Wilson-st., Newtown, N.S.W.—
“ Consider the ‘ Beale ’ the best piano procurable in Aus-
tralia, and superior to anything imported.”
Mrs. J. BO WE, Bridge-st., Drum: ,<r ne, N.S.W.—
“ Superior to pianos of Continental manufacture; highly
pleased with it, both in tone and appearance.”
GEORGE RUSSELL, Esq., Cascade-st., Paddington,
N.S.W. —“ Have had English, French, and the last pre-
vious to yours, the leading maker of America, which cost
80 guineas, and I like yours better than any of the
others.”
E. A. CLEMENT, Esq., Good-st., Granville, N.S.W.—
“ Have not seen or heard better.”
Dr. JOPIN SERVICE, L.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Edinb., &c.,
Barrington, N.S.W. —“ Entirely pleased and debt ted.”
D. BLANCHFIELD, Esq., Quaarna, N.S.W. “ We are
well satisfied.”
R. V. PICKERING, Esq., Cavey-.st., Marrickville,
N.S.W.—“ Has given every satisfaction ; shall not fad to
recommend to anyone requiring a first class instrument.”
Miss P. M. E. TURNER, Forbes, N.S.W.—“Very much
pleased with the piano.”
JOSEPH RROADRTBB, Esq., Clear View, Bomen—
“Everyone has pronounced.rt<eisplendid instrument.
W. W. FARRANI), Esq., Secretary School Arts, Fo bes,
N.S.W.—“ Has stood the extreme heat of sum er, and in
every sense its condition is quite equal to that at the
time of purchase.”
Mrs. BARRETT, Barrett’s Hotel, Nvngan, N.S.W.—
“ Am pleased to testify to its superior qualities and rich-
ness of tone.”
P. REARDON, Esq., Rose Glen, Collector, N.S.W. —"A
splendid instrument, and one that will last a lifetiire.”
WM. DENNETT, Esj., Throsby-street, Wickham,
N.S.W. —“ Thoroughly satisfied ; a splendid instrument.”
Mss A. BARNES, May’s Hill, N.S.W.—“ Much
admired for both look and tone.”
R. D. G. MACPHERSON, Esq., Morgan-street, Peter-
sham, N.S.W.—“Has given the utmost satisfaction. My
sister is very much pleased with a similar instrument
purchased from you.”
Mrs. ELIZA CASEY, Brisbane Fields, Morpeth, N.S.W.
—“ls all that could be desired in any piano, both in
regard to purity of tone and excellence of finish.”
J. DAVIDSON, Esq., 63 Pye-street, Bathurst, N.S.W. —
“ Gives great satisfaction to me and to all who have heard
and seen it.”
B. GALLAGHER, Esq., Glen Innes, N.S.W.—“ Every-
one who hears it says it is a beautiful instrument.”
WM. SEE, Esq., Rosedale, Hinton, N.S.W. —“ Has a
deep, rich tone, and the bass notes are delightful.”
JOHN A. DAVIDSON, Esq., Glen Innes, N.S.W.—
“ Shall have pleasure in recommending to all my friends.”
R. H. JACKSON, Esq., Grahamstown, N.S.W. —“A
first-class instrument in every respect.”
W. FARRAR, Esq., Rylstone, N.S.W. —“More than
pleased, and will gladly recommend.”
ALEX. M‘KAY, Esq., North Arm, Bowraville, Macleay
River, N.S.W. —“Speaks for itself, for two of my neighbors
are ordering instruments from you of the same kind.”
JOHN HILLS, Esq., Cary-st., Drummoyne, N.S.W. —
“Shall at all times be glad to recommend the Beale
Patent in preference to any other.”
W. SPALDING, Esq., Albert-st., Lithgow, N.S.W.—
“ The tone is very good ; leaves nothing to be desired.”
WM. HUMPHREY, Esq., Rosevale, Morven, N.S.W.—
“ It is all you represented it to be.”
Mrs. MARGARET GILLETI', Glenreaeh Hotel, South
Grafton —“ People of all classes speak in terms of the
highest praise of the piano.”
H. EVANS, Esq., “Tanja,” Bega, N.S.W. —“It is a
splendid instrument, and reflects great credit upon the
manufacturers, the tone and touch being perfect.”
G. PARKEIi, Esq., Crookwell, N.S.W.—“ Every satis-
faction. I will be able to send you buyers for one, if not
two, of your pianos.”
JOHN NOLLE, Esq., Willows Lake, Reddestone,
N.S.W. “ Very good, both for tone and workmanship.
The Beale-Vader patent is a great improvement.”
J. BEHRINGER, Esq., Moru.va, N.S.W.—“ Perfectly
satisfied and shall have pleasure in recommending.”
THOS. HALI’IN, Esq., Nelson’s Flams, Ravmond-
terrace, N.S.W.—“Greatest satisfact'n; I strongly
advise anyone who contemplates purchasing to get a
Beale Patent.”
( Miss M. ROBSON, 80 Mill-st., Pyrmont, N.S.W.—
‘‘Highly pleased. It cannot be equalled.”
•lAS. ROSS, Esq., Halfway House, via Glen Innes,
N.S.VV.—“Undoubtedly the best-toned piano I have ever
heard. ”
Mrs. E. GODBOLD, Foy-st., Balmain, N.S.W.—“Highly
pleased; music teacher and friends think it a splendid
instrument.”
ENOCH JONES, Esq., Broadmeadows, N.S.W.—
“Pleasure and admiration for the beautiful tone and
touch.”
ROBERT WILLIAMS, Esq., Maria-st., Newtown,
N.S.W.—“Keeps up to the standard as well as when I
first got it.”
Mrs. M. CROSS, Westburn, Berremangra.—“A splen-
did piece of work, also beautiful tone.”
Mrs. A. ROBSON, Edgeware-rd., Newtown, N.S.W.—
“Much pleased with your Australian piano.”
Mrs. S. LYELL, Nymagee, N.S.W. —“Think the
Australian piano is the best I ever touched.”
Mrs. CAREW, Leichhardt, N.S.W. —“ Am much pleased
with piano, and my friends are also.”
JOHN ALLAN, Esq. Wingham Hotel, Wingham,
N.S.W.—“AII players who have had the privilege of
playing on my Beale Piano are delighted.”
Mrs. M. A. DINGLE, Botany, N.S.W.—“No instrument
could give greater satisfaction, either for brilliance of
tone or splendor of workmanship.”
M. MURPHY, Esq., 671 King-st., Newtown, N.S.W.—
“ Complete satisfaction. I could not have been better
suited.”
JAS. ROGERS, Esq., Geurie, N.S.W.—“ lam confident
it will supersede all other pianos in the market. Our
music teacher and our Geurie bandmaster pronounced it
perfection.”
W. G. WEST, Esq., Balmain, N.S.W.—" Cannot be sur-
passed by any of the imported pianos.”
Mrs. M. L. DRAKE, “ Mildura,” White-st., Balmain,
N.S.W. —“We don’t think we have ever seen an instru-
ment which pleased us so well.”
H. SCHUUNKE, Esq., Narrandera, N.S.W.—“ Has
proved exceptionally good, having passed a very severe
and prolonged summer without a note going wrong.”
FRED. MAZOUDIER, Esq., Parkes, N.S.W.—“ Ex-
perienced tuner savs it is beautifully toned.”
WM. AUERBACH, Esq., Hosking-st., Balmain, N.S.W.
—“ A splendid instrument, and fulfils all my expectations,
and my girls are simply delighted.”
JOHN BAIRD, Esq.,' Auckland-st., Newcastle, N.S.W.
—“Highly satisfactory, and above expectatirn.”
Mrs. S. J. MACQUEEN, Addison-st., Goulburn, N.S.W.
—“ Grand quality of tone, has a splendid touch, elastic
and responsive. Highly recommend.”
The Beale=Vader Patent
Steel Tuning System.
( f-Jf
Jj' ' itfC}/
»
rom O
access *
•Cftcwt x
Showing SOLID IRON ERAME, with steel
screws and tuning pins. A glance will tell you
that this construction will endure for generations.
The pins are lubricated, and so can always be
turned with delicacy. Patented throughout the
world. The pins are firm, cannot move, nor thus
five out false vibrations, as in the old system.
The Tuning System
of Imported Pianos.
Pins driven into holes in a WOODEN PEANK
which sooner or later must give way. In a space
of 1J square feet, 216 pins, 1J inch by \ inch,
are driven. Timber cannot resist such honeys
combing under a strain of 15 tons. The holes
become oval, as shown above, by the crushing of
the wood fibres.
Improvements in Piano Woodwork.
n r
Retire I
B c
igure u..
figure 3.
IMPROVEMENTS IN PIANO DOORS.—Patents taken out in Australia by BEALE & CO., Ltd. The doors of
imported pianos from any countrj' are liable to shrink and warp, especially the key-board fall or cover. We avoid
these misfortunes and increase the streng th thus :
Fig. I — A is the centre or core of door, basswood.
B, Bl.—Outer and inner cross-layers of bass-
wood or walnut.
O, 01. —Outer and inner veneer of walnut
again crossed.
I).—Outer frame-piece of American redwood.
Dl.—Ornamental moulding enclosing the panels.
E. —Binding piece of Australian cedar.
F. Walnut veneer on outer face or front frame.
FI. —Strengthening cross-layer of white wood.
By means of our construction, consisting: of three or more internal layers of timber and two externa', irames all
glued together under pressure, a door is obtained that cannot under any circumstances warp or twist, no matter to
what climatic conditions it may be subjected. Figure 3 represents a section of part of the upper lid, and Figure 2of
the fall or key-board lid, constructed on the same principle. It will be seen that the various jointed plies of timber
with the fibres opposed tend to secure straightness in the wood, and thus prevent warping. It is known as the com-
pensatory princ'ple. All our mouldings are tongued on, as shown in Figure %. whicn German makers do not follow,
hence the mouldings of imported pianos fall or are easily knocked off. You cannot obtain Pianos upon this systefn
from any other makers. The advantage to the buyer and user is most manifest.
RESIDENTS OF QUEENSLAND are requested to note that we have no connection whatever with a firm of the same |name trading in
in that State. BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS may be obtained direct from the Factories, and we take risk of transit.
ORDERS BY POST receive the very best attention, and the utmost care is < iken by the principals to ensure satisfaction. Send what deposit you can, and you may arrange easy terms for the
balance We test personally each instrument sent away to buyers at a distance. The vast majority—fully nine-tenths—of our Pianos are supplied to buyers who do not have the opportunity to see
them and test for We can supply more than ten thousand references as to complete satisfaction. Send us your order and we guarantee to please you. We take risk of damage in transit,
so you have' nothing to fear. We are willing to trust you, therefore you may trust us. Our Pianos may be taken to any climate, and with due care will last a lifetime.
BEALE & CO., Ltd.
Australian Piano Manufacturers,
474 George St., Sydney; 28 Hunter St,, Newcastle ; 207 King St., Newtown
107 Swanston St., opp. Town Hall, Melbourne ; 127 Rundle St., Adelaide
101 Brisbane St., Launceston / His Majesty’s Theatre, 615 Hay St., Perth.
BRANCHES AND TRAVELLERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.


4V
<
m
a
m
Sterling Silver, size 9 x 2iin.. 12s 6d
size 10 x 22s Od.
Sterling- Silver, this design,
size 9J x 3.in., 12s 6d.
ass
Silver-plated Spring Razor Strops
frosted, 10s 6d : embossed, 12s 6d
Sterling Silver ditto (plain), 355..
Sterling Silver Circular Hand Mirrors,
size 9x5 in., 22s 6d ; siz ■ 11x6 in.,
Cherub design, 32s 6d.
jyiminminniuw»iHUMmnuwmnnmmti
Sterling Silver Shaving Set, as illustration, 425,
47s 6d, 57s 6d ; ditto, Brush and Jar onlv,
37s Gd, 47s 6d, 555, 57s 6d.
a*
WinHiiaßtaiißmunßninaniaintWiMiianiiinßniaHiigia
Sterling Silver Mnnicure Sets, 2ls, 255, 30s,
32s 6d, 355, 425, 47s 6d, 555, 68s 6d.
Sterling Silver Shoe Lift, Glove and Boot Hooks, with
with Glove Stretchers, 22s 6(1, 26s 6d, 27s 6d.
Sterling Silver Ser-
viette Rings, Circular
or Semi-circular, as
above, plain or satin
finished, 8s fid each ;
engraving extra.
Other designs, 5s fid,
6s lid, 7s 6d, 9s 6d.
a
' I i
Military Hair Brushes, in cases, with back?
of ivory, ebony, silver, zyloriite, nickel, or
satin-wood, 10s fid, 14s 6d, 15s !)d, 18s 6d,
22s 6d, 255,. 27s 9d to 84s per pair in case.
Fancy Hobnail Glass Biscuit
Barrel, Electro-plated Mounts,
full size, 14s 6d.
Salad Bowls, Out Glass, with
E.P. Mounts, complete with
servers, 21s, 29s 6d set.
aStn
SPwm&ni
kw la
Sterling Silver Shoe Lift and Hook Sets, 11s fid, Ills fid, 18s fid, 19s 6d, 21s,
22s fid, 26s 6d ; ditto, with Glove Hook, lfis fid, 19s fid, 23s 6d.
Silver Handled Shoe Lifts, in various designs and sizes.
Prices 2s lid, 4s 6d, 5s lid, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 8s lid to 21s.
& ,
£
L:
Electro-plated Toast Racks, three
designs, full size, 10s 6d, 13s 6d,
14s 6d.
Silver Hindied Boot Hooks, various sizes
and patterns. Prices 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 3s lid,
5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, to 17s 6d ; ditto,
Glove Hooks, Is, Is 6d.
MS
m
Afternoon Tea Services, in Electro-plate, many novel and handsome designs, 7
Coffee Service, chased with Australian Wild Flower design, 4 pieces, 1
’Bs 6d, 84s per set. Teapots only 21s, 25s each. Full-size Tea and
2 g uineas. Large size Teapots only 255, 27s 6d, 35s each.
Satin-lined Work Baskets, a Large Assortment of
Shapes and Sizes, from 7s 8d to 27s Cd each. .
Out Glass and Electro-plated Jam
Dishes, many different shapes, single
and double, 7s lid, 8s 6d, 12s 6d,
14s 6d, 22s 6d, 23s 6d.
Silver-plated Cake Baskets, in various shapes, 42s to 555.
Silver-plated Hot Water Jug’s, 30s, 33s 6d, 355.
Cut Glass and Electro-plated Butter
Dishes, 12s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s.
Crumb Trays and Brushes, in copper
and nickel-plate, plain or oxydised,
7s lid and 10s 9d per set.
Electro-plated Breakfast Cruets, various shapes, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
14s 6d, 17s 6d.
Luncheon and Dinner Cruets, 21s, 255, 30s, 32s 6d. Oil ana
Sauce Cruets, 2 bottles, 14s 6d, 16s 6d.
Send for our
Catalogue.
Any of these Goods Post Free throughout Australia.


-m
jm
■
SSP
! *s
V
.
m
V • •■: ■
I
pp,
n
%
' •
■
Jfct *
■
■
B
m
.
3*o
1
£
PHmhhi
Sf
P
; •
■
i
L
*
Si
if
Mb
H*
Its*
%Y
111
’I
••
M>V
: if
: *J.-;
3T# 1
SS
Pi
BE
.


Missing Friends.
a femg the whereabouts of
THOMAJ3 GRAHAM, SENR., who was
Manager of a j~>tation at Moree, or near Moree
please communicate with
Mrs. THOMAS GRAHAM,
281 Upper Albert-street, City,
Brisbane, QUEENSLAND.
Y\/ANTED to know the address of P. W. WHITEHOUSE
a 0 l e Er !?^ !ld or Sydney a year last March.’
iniormation will be gladly received by his parents.
Address— Mr. R. S. WHITEHOUSE,
Gradus, Newton Rd., Swanage, ENGLAND.
P RE ( N ,?^ R P AST ’ JAMES (blacksmith), formerly
of Waterloo, near Sydney, N.S.W. Left for West
Australia about October, 1896. Information as to his
present whereabouts sought by his relatives.
NEAL COLLINS, Solicitor,
81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
P AI Jf™ N V7T I J, 1 I?™ afcion Wanted of THOMAS and
DAVID PATTERSON (bakers), who left Belfast 30
years ago for Brisbane, by their brother, George
Patterson, 13 Park-street, Oldham, Lancashire, or sister,
Annie Patterson, 4 Verson-street, Belfast.
IF THOMAS JOHNSON SANDERSON,
saac Sanderson, will communicate
with The'Trustees, Executors & Agency Co.,
Ltd., of 412 Collins Street, Melbourne, he will
hear of something to his advantage.
Pufol lcations.
Printkd in Australia.
It will pay you to buy the
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.’s
Eovelg Series of ||ieui Books
To send to absent friends, Tourists, or for
Home Decoration.
A LOVELY COLLECTION of PICTURES.
Acknowledged by the English and American Experts that
this Series equals anything- published in the Old World.
Sydney, Descriptive and Illustrative.—36 views and
panorama of Sydney and Harbor, taken expressly for
this publication. Price 1/-, post free 1/2.
Country Scenes and Pleasure Resorts in N.S. Wales.—
36 views illustrative of Beauty Spots of N.S.W
Price 1/-, post free 1/2.
Are also on sale with extra pictures added, bound in
cloth, g-old lettered, printed on one side of the paper
only. 100 views in all. Price 36, post free 9d.
extra. A lovely book, suitable as a gift.
Combined View Book.— Oloth bound, gold lettering
printed on art paper. Contains 250 illustrations and
10 large panoramas. The series comprises views of
Sydney, Melbourne, Adeleide, Brisbane, Perth, Tas-
mania. A lovely book. The only thing of its kind
published in Australasia. Price 6, -, post 1/- extra.
Melbourne, Illustrative and Descriptive.—36 views and
panorama. Price 1/-, post free 1/2.
Adelaide, Illustrative and Descriptive.—36 views and 2
panoramas. Price 1/-, post free 1/2.
Brisbane, Illustrative and Descriptive.—36 views and
panorama. Price 1/-, post free 1/2.
Tasmania, Illustrative and Descriptive 36 views and
2 panoramas. Price 1/-, post free 1/2.
West Australia, Illustrative and Descriptive.—36
views and panorama. Price 1/-, post free 1/2.
Sunny New South Wales.—l 2 pictures printed in colors.
A pretty little booklet. Price 6d., post free 2cl
extra. r
Australian Birds, by Neville Cayley, the celebrated
Bud painter 11 pictures printed in colors, on art
paper. Price 1/., post free 1/2.
Australian Wild Flowers, by Margaret Flockton. i*>
pictures printed in colors. A dainty little produc-
tion. Price 1/-, post free 1/2.
Newcastle and West Maitland, Illustrative and De-
scriptive —24 views and panorama Price 6d., post
free Bd. ’ *
Scenic Gems of Australia. —l 2 views depicting the
principal parts of Australia. Borders round each
picture, alternately Australian Wild Mowers by
Margaret Flockton, and Butterflies by Dr. Riches.
This is the best booklet ever produced in Australia
and is commanding a phenomenal sale. Price 1
post free 1/2. ’
New Zealand, Illustrative and Descriptive. —4o views
of the principal beauty spots and towns of that
wonderful country, reproduced from photographs
supphed by the New Zealand Government. Size of
illustrations, 7x5 inches. The whole enclosed in
gold embossed cover. Price 1/-, post free 1/2.
Also a LARGE COLLECTION of Post Cards
imported from all parts of the World,
and CHOICE AUSTRALIAN SUBJECTS.
AST SEND FOR LISTS. All our Publications bear ouf*
imprint. Do not be deceived into buying vastly inferior
Publications. Look for the name, N.S.W. BOOKSTALL
00., printed on the cover or title page.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
Head
Office :
861 George St., Sydney.
VER
HEARD
OF
SANTA
CLAUS
IN
THE
RED
FUNNEL
The December Number
of Australia’s Premier
Literary Magazine
tells all about it.
BOY IT.
READ IT.
SEND IT
HOME.
100
Pages of
Original
Literature.
Two
Reproduced
Oil Paintings
in Colours.
“The Legend of
Samoa,”
Illustrated in Colour'
occupying 8 pages.
25 Illustrated Articles
and Stories.
6d. m 6d.
Ask your Bookdealer for it
THE RED FUNNEL.
GORDON & GOTCH PROPY. LTD„
Wholesale Agents for Australasia.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
\ KNIVES
N. are the
BEST.
Sold
all first-
class stores
in Australasia
No. 8176* 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 1/6'
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - « - 2/6
GRAND TRICKS for EVENING AMUSEMENT.
MAGIC DICE TR.CK. —Just about the neat-
est trick going-. An or-
dinary Dice can be
made to pass right
through a hat in a most
extraordinary manner
and the cleverest of
your audience will fail
to detect the secret.
Price 1/2 posted.
THE ENCHANTED
EGG. —As performed by pro-
fessional conjurers. A g olden
egg is made to change before
the eyes of the audience first
,into a white, then into a blue,
then to a red egg ; finally the
Golden h g appears. 2/2 posted.
SEED and BELL TRICK.— An excellent and very
deceiving trick. A little Casket is filled with Seed from
the Bag ; the Bell and Casket are then covered with a
handkerchief over each. On examining them, everybody
will be simply amazed to find the Casket empty, and the
missing Seed underneath the Bell. Price complete,
2/6, posted.
WIZARD TRICK CARDS.
—With these cards you can, by
simply breathing upon them, make
them completely change no less
than five times. There is not a
better Card Trick on the market.
Price 7ft. per pack, post free.
COIN TRICKS are
always popular. A
coin is placed in the
box, and disappears in
front of the audience, or can be made to change into
another coin. Price 10d posted. We have two other
splendid Coin Tricks, prices lOd and 7d.
AND A HOST OF OTHER NOVELT.ES
suitable for Presents, &c.
FORTUNE TELLING BY CARDS.—A magnifi-
cent book, replete with illusti ations, and dealing with
seven different systems. //- pest free.
Directions given with all Tricks shown.
Am J. S/WITH 6k CO., 6 Moore Street, SYDNEY.
THE ONLY RUPTURE CURE IN THE WORLD!
Kes //id Only Rupture Cure in the
World that relieves you in ONE
MINUTE and then cures you—absolutely.
Rupture Cured
Without the Knife!
The Sherman Cure
For Rupture
The Only Rupture Cure eulogised
by the London “Lancet.”
THE TIME OF MY . .
DEPARTURE DRAWS NEAR.
In a few weeks I shall be making a tour of
N. S. W. —afterwards I shall select either
(Sydney or Melbourne as my headquarters.
CONSUL TA TIONS FREE.
F ~FTOTfr?c/^Vi^ a^ s ex °epted) from 10 a.m. to 12.30, 2.30 p.m. to
EX IRA HOURS—luesday and Friday Evenings, from 7.30 to 9. Saturdays,
12.30 noon.
5.30 p.m.
10 a.m. to
A. W. MARTIN,
Sole Controller for Australasia,
St. Aubyns, 82 Hunter-st., Sydney.
f f °Tf IC Ar'“^ A^ 1 mtend t 0 Vlait the Main Centres
Afterward ™ ,? ew Yea T; earl y application is necessary.
Afterwards Sydney or Melbourne will be selected as headquarters
FALLSNAW BROS.
191-5 Queen St., Melbourne)
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Make Every Description of
INVALID CHAIRS,
BARBERS’ CHAIRS and
MIRRORS.
BILLIARD DINING
TABLES, Bft., £2l.
BILLIARD TABLES, Full Size, £7O Complete.
Furniture of Every Description.
WALLABY CARS, 27s - 6d.
sm~ ALL WORK GUARANTEED.
ij AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
Is non-heating. One cup contains
more nourishment than 10 cups of
VI any ordinary cocoa.
u
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name
WILL ANDRADE ~ BOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is : post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers im-
proved. Magic Up-To-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
Gel. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot : Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each
ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series 2s!
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each’
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads’
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How’
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Tiif, Cuckold, is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood 5s
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and niany
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise *
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano Is
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s Gd dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &0., with full directions, 1s ; posted 1/3.
W
7*
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring-Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful5 —Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6 —Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Cp, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and ®„ectric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handpook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover's Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc., is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State wili do.
MANNING’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
traininff St B h C e°lt!.Hnt e 1905 Edition ‘ Ful] y Illustrated. Deals with breeding, breaking
training, sheltering telling age racing, etc. Diseases-their causes, how to know them and
how to cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 10/6.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
&
&
A
&
s.
£
&
a


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NAT At, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
>
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,461—assuring £29,270,925,
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head OfBoe:
419 & 421 COLLINS STKEET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,226 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agentß throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. Y. RALSTON.
The Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled .. .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. 1 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) f £370,000
HE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £17,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.CJ. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & 00., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide. W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office— HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,085,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,085,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
A. H. K. Maxwell, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. H S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks..
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes or
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured ,
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Shipping.
N. 3D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt. Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, wa. Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 23rd DECEMBER.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 20th JANUARY.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 17th JANUARY.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
ni Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOUS AGENTS.
m
\ ™
ThtßuuK.
CRAIG 4.
House,
AIT KEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supplj
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
♦Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, <fcc., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about
23rd DECEMBER,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC,
and SUE VIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Ddlyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
LIKT E,
OO EA. KTIO S.S. C3o. A.. ancl A.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SIERRA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, DECEMBER 25.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS PHILP and CO.. Ltd., managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific ? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about Ten Shillings a Day— that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
BURNS. PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
ISLAND
CRUISES
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.,
WE
<s>
$
BILLS
discounted-
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3xr. s.-w.
(|)ont de pete fl.s|.|;o.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEKEAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. w
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. •• £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FusD(ln vested in Government Stock) bo.uwuu
£698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. • • ••
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
total Capital _
1,000,000
500,000
500,000
£2,000,000
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
The Cheapest Route to London*
First Class ••• ••• £55 to £66
Second Class £35 to £4O
MOANA Sails, Monday, Dec. 25.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
Jan. 22, Feb. 19, March 19.
The Magnificent New Turbine Steamer,
MAHENO,
SAILS APRIL 16, 1906.
Send'for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, Georj/e-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin
and card tricks), The Surprise Packet, or Nerve
Strengthener (a good joke), the Wizard Fish
(gives the definition of your character—very
superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNcw York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. H. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
™ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMS!
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and
West Australian, South Australian
Viotorian and Queensland Ports.
6^
Ay
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Dee. 8.
S.S. Grantala (from Mel-
, bourne), December 13.
S.S. Kanowna, Wednesday,
December 20.
BRISBANE, 1
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, \
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Marloo, December 9.
S.S. Allinga, December 15.
Jiest and Cheapest Route to Oold/lelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling 1 at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIEIt DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY COIN VENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Centra], and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
Hodern Appointments. iloderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comior and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon3field Parade
Sl'. HILDA.
fIIHE Largest and Jsesr-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies'. • Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower tharilicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
THE LAST OF SIX
Price 6d. Post Free.


The Very
Tiling'
Just what you
want for the
CHRISTHAS
a„d NEW YEAR
HOLIDAYS!
THE
KODAK ‘BROWNIES’
Are THE SIMPLEST TO USE.
THE EASIEST TO CARRY.
THE SUREST FOR RESULTS.
And the CHEAPEST TO BUY.
No previous knowledge of Photography is required, and
the BEST PICTURES are necessarily the results of the
Best Taste and Judgment.
Pleasant memories are prolonged and good times per-
petuated by any of these members of the great “KODAK”'
family :
Brownie No. 1, Pictures 2£ x 2|in., Price 6s f Weight Boz.
Brownie No. 2, Pictures 2£ x 3tin., Price 10s , Weight 16oz.
No. 2 Folding Brownie, Pictures 2£ x Price 24-S , Weight 16oz.
No. 3 Folding Brownie, |-Plate Pictures, Price 45s f Weight 250 z.
A most seasonable and attractive present is a “ BROWNIE ” CHRISTMAS
HAMPER, with Film, Developing Tank, Developing Powders, Printing
Frame, Papers, and every requisite for turning out a finished mounted
Photograph, and the
Price is 265.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPY., LTD.,
375 & 377 George Street, SYDNEY.
AND AX
284 Collins St., Melbourne ; 78 Queen St., Brisbane ; 37 Bundle St., AdelxYlDe.
*63*
HEALTH
VITALITY
KUTNOW’S POWDER
APPETITE
KUTNOW’S POWDER is one of the most beneficial remedies for the improvement of health and the prevention of disease ; in fact, it is the one remedy
which enjoys the support and approval of the general body of medical practitioners. The reason for the recognition of its value by such distinguished
physicians as PROF. LAWSON TAIT, M.D., SIR MORELL MACKENZIE, M.D., SIR SPENCER WELLS, M.D., and SIR ANDREW CLARK,
M.D., is not difficult of comprehension. Kutnow’s Powder is appreciated by doctors because they know that it contains nothing which is injurious, no
mercurial poison, nothing painful or drastic, and nothing but what is beneficial. The most delicate person can take it, even very young children and
invalids find it agreeable ; moreover, its action is so gentle and soothing that insensibly to the patient it efficiently does its work. It clears and flushes the
entire system of all noxious debris and poisonous liquids, which action is invaluable to both sick and well. It gradually changes certain morbid conditions
of the system, and establishes healthy tissue, which alone is able to bring about a sound constitution. It stimulates the vital processes to renewed
activity, and enables the kidneys and bowels to remove waste matter which ought to be eliminated, one of the most important of which is URIC ACID.
In this way Kutnow’s Powder alters, corrects and purifies the fluids, gives tone to, and re-establishes the healthy function of, all the digestive and other
organs of the body. It cleanses and lubricates the human machinery. Kutnow’s Powder is an alterative which possesses tonic, laxative, stimulant,
and diuretic properties. It is a mild aperient which flushes the whole alimentary canal. It is a stimulant which has the power of increasing the vital
activity of the body. It is a cholagogue which never fails to make the liver act properly. Its alkaline action neutralises excessive acidity in the stomach,
and bowels. It is an antiseptic which prevents putrefaction. These are the qualifications of Kutnow’s Powder, and, needless to say, they never fail
to assist in the maintenance and re-establishment of Health. ( 1 •
H. A. G. ROEDER, Esq.,
writes
‘*ll3 Glower-street, London, W.C.
“ I consider it only fair to apprise you of the
remarkable beneficial results obtained by the use
of Kutnow’s Powder. I purchased a bottle, and
continued with a dose for several mornings before
breakfast. For a long time past I suffered from
severe mental depression, due to an inactive liver
and kidney trouble, with excessive uric acid.
Thanks to your efficient remedy I no longer fear
these distressing attacks, as I find a single dose
corrects any mistakes in diet and removes the
injurious poisons. In the hope that my letter
may lead others to try what has proved an in-
valuable boon to me, you may make whatever
use you please of my testimony.”
ln>portai)t CaOtioo
«. -
All respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder, but there
are others, who, for the sake of a little extra profit, will
attempt to foist upon you some cheap imitation of their
own. It is well known that these cheap concoctions are
highly dangerous, and in the case of delicate, sensitive
persons capable of inflicting permanent injury. Kutnow’s
Powder is pure, painless, palatable, free from sugar, and
absolutely harmless. See that the fac-simile signature,
“S. Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade mark,
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are on the carton in
which the bottle is packed, and also on the label on the
bottle. This signature and trade mark will alone insure
your obtaining the .
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder
THE DOCTOR’S ADVICE.
“ 2 Percy-road, Wrexham, July 6, 1904.
“Sirs, —Some five years ago 1 had an acute
attack of nephritis (inflammation of the kidney),
and my doctor advised Harrogate waters. After
trying them for some time with very little result
the doctor suggested giving your Powder a trial,
with such excellent result that in a short time I
felt very much better. I continued taking it-
regularly every other day for two years, and con-
sider it worked an entire cure. I never go to a
patient without a bottle in my possession. Many
of my patients have tried it with excellent results.
I think the wonderful good done in such cases
should be widely known for the benefit of other
sufferers,
“ Yours sincerely,
“ MARGARET CROSS (Nurse).”
PERFECTS DIGESTION, REGULATES EXCRETION
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO,, Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
Proprietors In U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
[l-7].


Mississippi (U.S.A.) _ State law makes
inter-marriage between whites and blacks a penal
offence. Recently, at the town of Magnolia, a
white woman was sentenced to ten years im-
prisonment for marrying a negro, and the Court
regretted that it could not make the sentence
heavier.
The “Australian Women’s Liberal Union ”
has passed a resolution to the effect that Asiatics
should be admitted to Australia “ under adequate
restrictions.” In South Africa “ adequate restric-
tions ” have proved to be chiefly flogging. Is this
what the “Australian Women’s Liberal Union”
means? And if so, will it take the responsibility
of its own theories ? And supposing it takes tile
responsibility, does it think that the spectacle of
a fashionably-dressed lady, with a picture hat on
her head and a cat-of-nine-tails flying loose in her
jewelled hand as she flogged the naked yellow
backbone of a screeching Chinaman, woul be a
nice thing for this country to look upon ?
The N.S.W. Temperance Alliance seems
to be another political alias of the Carruthers-
Stinson push. It professes to be a non-party
organisation, and collects funds from Cold Tea
folk of all parties, but it pays ex-Salvationist
Bruntnell a copious salary to go round “ organ-
ising,” and as far as can be seen, he organises
chiefly to keep Carruthers in his job. At last
election Arthur Griffith was a candidate, and he
was also a subscribing member of the blessed
Alliance. Nevertheless the Alliance spent good
teetotal money on circularising the electors to
vote against Griffith and for another man. The
other wasn’t a better Alliance man than Griffith,
but he was a Joe-ite and Griffith wasn’t.
As showing the difference between Aus-
tralia’s treatment of its ornamental Governor-
General (who is allowed to get all his goods in
duty free), and the U.S.A.’s treatment of its
working President (both get the same screw), the
YanlceeUustoms authorities have decided that full
duty will have to be paid on all the presents
(mostly dutiable goods) received by Miss Alice
Roosevelt during her recent tour. These are
valued at about £20,000, and the duty payable by
the President is computed at about £12,000. Ihe
trip was a semi-diplomatic one, too !
Apropos “the great revival in trade" in
S’Africa, which, according to the Tory bapers,
was to follow on the heels of peace and the intro-
duction of “ intelligent Coolie labor at the mines.
Thus a S.M. Herald Capetown correspondent
Unless a sharp revival of trade takes place before the
end of the year, next January must inevitably witness a
mercantile cataclysm in Capetown. As for the export
trade, it has almost ceased to be. The war knocked the
sheep-farmer on the head, and one does not see a bale of
wool in a week’s march in Capetown. A little argol, a
few ostrich feathers, a paltry lading of fruit and wine,
represent the exports of Capetown Port Elizabeth and
East London still ship some wool and hides, but only a
fraction of what they handled 10 or 20 years ago. The
wool-washing industry, which used to he represented by
some dozen establishments, employing many hundreds of
natives at Uitenage has gone. Of other colonial industries,
the jam and confectionery manufacturers are about the only
ones that mav be said to be keeping their end up. Business
on the Capetown Stock Exchange is confined to petti-
fogging deals, contemptuously termed “ ticky-snatching
bv Johannesburg brokers, and more money changes hands
at Tattersall’s Rooms on the night before a Kenilworth
meeting than in a week’s transactions on the Stock Ex-
change. Most of the Capetown hotels are empty half the
time, and, though the theatre and music-hall continue to
keep their doors open, nobody can explain how.
World’s Greatest Dwelling Architects.
SEND 2s. P.O: Order for our Big 4s. Book, “ Modern Homes,” containing 170 Designs of Modem Dwellings,
built in wood, stone, brick, half wood and half stone and cement stone —showing views and floor plans and
estimated cost of each house. The largest Architectural Publication in the world. It is our business to make
plans and specifications for dwellings, business and public buildings of all kinds. Our 23 years of experience in
planning houses enables us to make plans accurately for building in any part of the world. The house shown
below has been built over 800 times for £240. We will mail you, post paid, Full Blue Print Working
Plans and Specifications 9 complete for £2.
iffiS*. KTttk
IS. 14
is. IS
@>a,Ql°G
r KS. 15
fA72fl
-T^Rsy
rii^toß
A U rooms open into hall
with grille arches between
dining room, parlor and
hall.
IT®
ES
This Plan can be Rever, a to Sait Any Location.
<3>CD &oc/t[
.®EDSWr
BtDß'jit
M- IS
<§>ec°/fD fu%tc
Three comfortable cham-
bers, 2nd floor.
All you have to do is to send 2s. for the book, “ Modern Homes,” which contains all information about
building a home. Write for our new book, “ Public Buildings,” which contains designs and plans of Schools,
Churches, Stores, Gaols, Office and Public Buildings of all kinds and descriptions. It also contains a series of
designs in high-priced dwellings, costing above £2OOO. This book has just been issued, and contains the latest
and most practical designs in business buildings and fine dwellings. We send this, post paid, for only 4s.
Established
1882.
J. H. DAVERMAN & SON, Architects,
Grand Rapids, Mich.
Porter Block.
Subscribe for ART IN ARCHITECTURE, a monthly publication, 4s. per year, devoted to artistic homes and
home furnishings. J. H. DAVERMAN & SON, Publishers.
■
Gmm
N
UNIVERSAL RECORPS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NKOLEPNONES
TWO SPECIAL
INSTRUMENTS
The Colonial,
The New Standard.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING:
AS. 316 George St,
SYDNEY.
CREAM, IN TUBES,
Soap and
Powder.
F. WOLFF & SOHN.’S
Karlsruhe.
s^tODERMV
Sold by all Chemists & Storekeepers.
THE FINEST
SKIN PREPARATIONS
IN THE WORLD.
sole:
AGENTS
LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne
Sydney.
| A truly delightful Thirst Quencher j
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
Insist on the genuine “ Montserrat.”
AVOID CHEAP IMITATIONS. 80I.D EVERYWHERE.
MELANCHOLIC MEN
The Director & Principal of Institutes,
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN.
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.-All
who have lost will-power, either by con-
tinually committing themselves to habits of
dissipation or by neglecting the opportuni-
ties to amend, become unfitted for any of the
walks of life. Now 20,000 men and women
have overcome their feelings of reserve to
such an extent that they have openly
endorsed the methods of
AND
Weary Women
Will you allow yourselves to
remain in a miserable state
of Nervousness or Debility,
when a Cure is at hand ?
The Physician-in-Chlef of Institute,
DR. RICHARD WALLACE.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL INSTITUTE.
They restore sufferers to a perfect, health}' state. This is not the confession of merely one person, but o^
TWICE TEN THOUSAND JTEN TALKING TO YOU.
These have been Restored to Health by the world-renowned Specialists, and if they are willing 1 to
sacrifice all reserve to prove to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to
make careful investigation.
The Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical Treatmant
brings back VIM, VIGOR, and ENERGY to men and women who have wasted their strength and
energies. Those who have wrecked their health MUST certainly suffer. Remember that, and be warned
in time. 1 1 1
DR. WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.M., has Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and
Registration open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms. His medical staff comprises FOUR DULY-
REGISTERED, FULLY-QUALIFIED PHYSICIANS, as well as Experts in the special ailments of
MEN. Registered chemists dispense his prescriptions.
You have suffered long and seriously. Why not let us assist you in the realisation of rapid relief and
complete cure? THIS WE CAN DO WITHOUT DOUBT if you will confide in us. Read the following
description or Keynote Symptoms, and if you have any of them you may rest assured you require the
remarkable treatment that has won name and fame for the Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical
Institutes of Health and Healing.
FAILING VIGOR.
When this begins to go, you
will twitch and show signs of
premature weakness. Fol-
lowing are some of the symp-
toms :
Your facial nerves twitch,
You are all run down,
Spots before your eyes,
The muscles twitch,
Pains in small of back,
Pains in head,
Shooting pains,
You feel fatigued,
You are weary,
Your head swims,
Your knees knock,
Your hand trembles.
NERVOUS TWITCH-
ING.
A nervous person easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitching.
Here are some symptoms :
Your eyes twitch,
Your hands tremble,
You feel shaky,
You walk haltingly,
You are melancholy,
Ringing in the ears,
Blood is poor,
Your eyes weak,
Your eyes bleary,
Your head swims.
DEBILITY.
This affliction destroys ambition,
organic strength, energy, and
hope. Following are symp-
toms :
You feel weak,
You feel cold,
Your back aches,
You lose flesh,
You sleep poorly,
Are low-spirited,
Your eyes sunken,
You have hot flushes,
Your memory impaired,
No real vigor,
You have sick headaches,
Nausea after eating,
Hands or feet moist,
Brightness leaves the eye.
DO NOT DELAY.— Delays are at all times dangerous. You would not throw away a grain of
o-old ; neither would you discard a pearl of great price ; yet health is more to you than any of these.
What is the value of a million of money, doubled fourfold, to a millionaire, if his arterips are aneurised, or
his brain softenened beyond all hope of cure? The moral of these facts lies in the proverbial truth—Do
not delay. PROCRASTINATION IS THE PRECIPICE BELOW WHICH YAWNS THE AWFUL GULF
OF DEATH. AVOID IT !
LOSE NO CHANCE.— Every man knows it is dangerous to trifle with disease. You might as
well stand at the mouth of a loaded cannon. While you have time, write to the SPECIALISTS at the
INSTITUTE ; state your symptoms, act according to their instructions, and you will soon be your old
self again. Their record is a series of professional triumphs. THEY HAVE THOUSANDS OF TESTI-
MONIALS TO PROVE THEIR UNEQUALLED SKILL.
SURE
We publish here two testimonials out of the
thousands which we possess. They are from
gentlemen whose names are familiar in the commer-
cial and athletic spheres of Australia. They are
now strong and able-bodied men, happy in the con-
sciousness of renewed health and vitality:—
CURES.
MR. PATRICK LARKIN, J.P., of Sydney, after a brief
course of our medical methods, writes regarding:
our Electro-Medical Treatment: —
“ I am satisfied it gives health and vigor to the
system. For some time my nerves were out of
tone, but now I am perfectly well, and have regained
my usual strength.”
MR. RALPH WELLS, of Melbourne, a Professional
Pugilist of very high order, and who recently
fought Jim Corbett, writes to us on October
Ist, 1904, thus :
“It gives me pleasure to state I have been under
your methods, being run down and suffering from
poorness of blood, with its complications. A brief
course of treatment at your hands has had most
satisfactory results and I am myself again.”
FREE MEDICAL BOOK! ! —During-the Summer Season our great medical treatise, “Clinical
Experiences,” may be obtained FREE on application. It contains 600 pages, 150 medical illustrations,
and 31 chapters, replete with valuable information. The best Book for Men with Serious Ailments.
FACTS THAT DEFY ARGUMENT.
We are treating thousands of cases annually, and is it not reasonable to suppose that we under-
stand such cases better than those who are treating only a few hundred? Practice makes perfect in
any line, and it is none the less true in the treatment of disease. You get the benefit of Experience
when you place your case in our hands. Do not despair. Order your treatment at once, and let us
add your name to our long list of cures.
******
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind that our treatment will not cure you, it is a duty you
owe to yourself to write to some of the references we herein publish, and send an addressed envelope
for reply. Ask any of the attendants who have given their testimonies to us if they think we can
benefit you. We court the closest investigation. Our Parcel Post System is a blessing to all sick
men living in centres far from medical men and aid. Thousands of men would now be in their graves
had we not reached and treated them by our Parcel Post System. Remember Iwe do not charge for
advice by letter.
The Freeman and Wallace
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney
?n W w?? T^S E^ lAN - Director - AND AT MELBOURNE.
DR. WALLACE, L.R.C.P., L.M., Physician-in-Chief.
DR. ELIZABETH WHITE, M.D., Specialists in Diseases of Women and Children.


i ran
iv
Sold Wherever CirilMon
Has Mated
From a small beginning in the sim-
plest form, Cuticura Remedies have
become the greatest curatives of their
time, and, in fact, of all time, for
nowhere in the history of medicine is
to be found another approaching them
in popularity and sale.
In every clime and with every peo-
ple Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills
have met with the same reception.
They have conquered the world. By
rail and sail, by caravan, by saddle,
and on the backs of human beings,
they have made their way to the far-
thermost parts of the earth.
There seems to be something about
Cuticura Remedies which invites the
confidence of mankind. National
peculiarities, European, Eastern, and
Asiatic teachings and traditions seem
to have no adverse influence upon
them. Hence they are to be found in
every part of the world, and the sight
of them in the bazaars and native
shops of foreign lands has inspired
the American traveller with patriotic
emotions second only to those pro-
duced by the contemplation of his
country’s flag.
GOOD
Sunh
Good for the clothes
and good for the hands
that wash the clothes.
303
When you have proved the value of Sunlight Soap
you will be equally satisfied if you try Monkey
Brand for scouring metal and woodwork.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bjurke St., Melbourne.
MM
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for allKecords.
SYSTEM kor Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Bunding-,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building-, Perth.
Of course .you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
IOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, 8d
“THE CRY—
OF A MARTYR
WRETCHEDNESS and MISERY
CRUEL STOMACH PAINS,
SICK HEADACHES,
DRIVEN OUT BY
MOTHER
SEBOEL S SYRUP
“Fortwoyears Iwas nothingshort of
a martyr to BILIOUSNESS and IN-
DIGESTION. I suffered terribly
from SICK HEADACHES and
PALPITATION OF THE HEART,
and could only do my work with
great difficulty After eating I had
SEVERE PAINSin the CHESTand
STOMACH and an INCLINATION
to VOMIT, together with EX-
TREME DEPRESSION of the
spirits and LANGUOR, which ren-
dered me unfit for anything. I never
knew what it was to be other than
WRETCHED and MISERABLE. I
spent a lot of money in buying and
using a great many medicines and
mixtures but got no relief, until
I was induced to get a bottle of
Mother Seigel’s Syrup. At once
my health began to improve, and a
few bottles relieved me of all the
miseries I have described and made
a complete cure. I still remain in
perfect health.”
Letter from Mrs. Annie Cremer, Marysville
House. 48, A mold Street. South Varra ,
Melbourne , Victoria; April 12, jgoj.
TAKEN DAILY
AFTER MEALS, IN WATER.
Sr Panacea m
m c for all
f Stomach Troubles
DrSheldon’s "I
DIGESTIVE TABULESI
''Digest what-you eat." l
TheOnlvCure
for
V Indigestion&•
DYSPEPSIA.
$
INSOLVENT ESTATE of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
GUNMAKERS,
Corner of LITTLE COLLINS and ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
rpHE TRUSTEES offer to the public, to'clear the whole
of their stock
10 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top
action, walnut stock, with cartridge machine,
cleaners, complete ; usual price £5 10s., re-
duced to .. .. .. .. .. .. £2 17 6
6 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib bar and rebounding locks, left
barrel full choke, right modified, pistol grip,
cartridge machines and cleaners, complete ;
usual price £lO, reduced to £5 0 0
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Hammerless
Guns, walnut stock, bar and rebounding locks,
treble wedge fast cross bolt, special No. 1 pistol
grip, choke bore, unequalled for quality, with
cartridge machines, cleaners, complete ; usual
price £l5, reduced to .. .. .. .. £7 10 0
8 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, Hammer-
less, steel barrels, complete with cartridge
machines and cleaners ; usual price £3 55.,
reduced to .. .. .. .. .. .. £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, twist bar-
rels, walnut stock ; usual price 255., reduced to £0 12 6
12 Folding Collector’s Guns, 410 gauge—a splen-
did gun for orchards; best steel locks and
barrels; reduced to.. .. .. .. ..£1 10 0
Winchester Pattern Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle, 1904 model, 22 short or long, reduced to £0 13 6
Remington Pattern S.S.’Rifles, reduced to .. £0 10 6
40 Baden-Powell Saloon Rifles, fires No. 1
Bulleted Cap .. .. .. .. .. ..£069
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, Green, ss. 100
~ Smokeless, 7s. 6d. 100
, 22 Short, lOd. 100
~ 22 Long, Is. Id. 100
SHOT, 2d. lb. ; CAPS, 2d. box ; WADS, 3d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
Send for Catalogue, Post Free. All orders delivered
carriage paid to any State and New Zealand.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
* They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The I‘iekwick, the Owl, and the W'averley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationars throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
CSC BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
C. Stratmann’s
Made on the
Premises
FINE....
CHOCOLATES .-a
SWEETHEATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
Hi
•o
■O
<
•ft
The Smart Girl says the D.C.L. Degree is all right. But D.C.L. Whisky
is far better for the man who wants a clear brain and a sound heart.
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines A Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c.,
Sole Agent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney-
Business, Robbery, etc.
The High Court is to be appealed to on a ques-
tion of fly-paper. A thriving business has been built up
by a Yankee firm which supplies a means of catching the
Australian fly. The device consists of paper smeared
with a sweet gummy mixture which detains the fly by
main force, and the Customs department is trying to
collect duty on the paper. The Yankee firm claims that
the stuff is an “ insecticide,” on the ground that it kills
mes, which are insects, and insecticide comes in under a
lower duty than paper. Some humorous cuss asks
whether diamonds could come in cheaply as insecticide
supposing they were fastened on paper and the fly
damaged himself by sitting down on the sharp edge of
xj- e u l noor * The Bulletin doesn’t know, but if the
High Court brushed a fty off its wig—supposing it wore
one ~ an d killed the fowl in the process, the High Court
would clearly be insecticide.
* * * *
“ Tim ”: My friend, the German count, went out
to the Kichmond pony races the other week, and came
home minus his hat and coat, and generally looking as if
he had been soaked over night, then ironed out with a
steam roller. Said he : “ Himmel! I onderstand not
you Australian vays. I go out to ze Gup to back ze dead
pird. Ach ! you vas queer beeble. He vas dead every
tune, and I gets vat you gall heem? Ah, yes ! ze stone
broke. Zen ze man vith ze dree gards gomes up. 1 know
heem. ‘Here you are, baron/ he say, ‘live bob to a
bound ze vinner.’ He zinks he vas glever, so I take out
ze half zoverigu vith the zixpence rubbed out and say,
done. ‘ Ildil a zov to two bound?’ he ask. ‘No, five
bob change, mein frient/ I reply, and he gif me dwo half
growns. Of course I lift ze wrong gard, but no matter. I
kick myself vith delight, zen I go off to blunge and regover.
Ze bookmaker write ze ticket, zen tear it up, and hand
back my money and say, ‘ Gottam ! you make number*
vour. Go to ’ell! Clear out!’ ‘ Sare! ’ I reply
enraged, ‘ soch gonduct is onpardonable,’ and I raise my
hat and gif heem my gard, and tell heem that I would be
glad to meet his frient zat he should send. Zen Igo
?nd drink ze lager, and ven I pay ze vaiter gall oudt,
.Bolice . Bolice ! ’ Donner and blitzen ! I gomprehend
zen and I run. Ze growd schream, ‘ Velsher !—Velsher ! ’
and I get killed half and lose my watch and chain before
I reach ze gates ; but I quickly drop zat ozzer half-grown
into ze river, zen ze zavages drop me in. Gott in himmel !
I know not ze vord bad enough for you Australians.”
* ■* * *
When Johnagiotis Smitliopolous is not engaged
in selling stale fish and fruit, and working his employees
19 hours a day, he is usually to be found coaxing a more
or less honest penny from the soldiers of any nation that
happens to be at war. Reuter’s correspondent in Man-
churia reports that one of the earliest indications that
there was to be trouble in that part of the world was
“the presence of the übiquitous Greek, that keenest of
traders, and persistent gleaner in the wake of armies in
the field. 1 recognised Greeks whose figures had been
familiar to the British during the Boer war.”
....
Adelaide cabinet makers complain of a new trick
by the Heathen Chinee. The stuff is not sold in the usual
manner, but houses are furnished with it, and
clearing sales of same held, the goods being in some cases
sold as those made by a manufacturer of world-wide
lame.
* * * *
A French resident of the New Hebrides, in
need of a horse and cart for general work on his young
plantation, sent along the following' order to a well-known
Sydney firm:—“l command you to send to me with
much quickness and despatch one woman horse, also a
chariot. I await anxiously. Yours greatfully, .”
“Burrawong”: in an Australian town two
tradesmen went into bankruptcy. Brown’s estate gave a
dividend of 3fd. in the £, whilst White’s little quota was
18s. 7d. for every £. Some time after, both started busi-
ness again, and gave the commercial travellers their
orders. Brown’s was executed on “ tick,” but White was
refused credit. White wanted to know why. “ Well,”
said the commercial, “ the firm thought that when Brown
went up he kept a bit up his s.eeve, whereas you paid up
all you had. The boss doesn’t like dealing with a man
who’s paid away all his money.”
* * * *
“ What with the warehouses, Ohow competi-
tion, tick, coupons and Christmas boxes, the game’s not
fair,” said the grocer. “Some of the customers ’ud beat
a land-agent. They run up a bill, and when they have
the ‘ready’ spend it and make their names good some-
where else. If they do pay for half o’ butter they expect
a few ounces over, and reckon you’re ‘mingy’ if you
don’t chuck in a few for the baby. But last
Saturday was the ‘ stretcher. ’ She was only a nipper,
and came for change of a bob, and when I gave it seemed
a bit slow at going, ‘Anything else 1 can do?’I says,
pleasant-like, and when sue Says, ‘ Please, the other
grocer always guves liis cublumevts lollies on Saturday,’
well, only that the missus fanned me with a wasiun’-
board I believe I’d ’a’ fainted.”
* ♦ * *
“Tim”: Last Cup year I clerked for a bookie
at Flemington, and was nearly driven mad by the
number oi tickets presented for payment by women
bacKtrs. After almost every race a nightmare of frenzied
skirt and weird head gear would come rushing up and
hand in a squashed ticket on some hopelessly beaten
noddy that was still finishing. The first customer nearly
d.opped dead With shock on learning that she was on the
wrong horse, but quickly recovered, and cleared for
action as il she had a contract on to bump the earth out
of its orbit. We paid. After the Cup four of these
errat.c she-ttends struck us all in a heap. On it being
pointed out that their tickets belonged to other book-
makers, two did a quiet weep, and declared broken-
lieartediy that they were positive we had booked their
bees, anu that we had swindled them out of their money.
The others hysterically denounced us for several minutes.
Kvery bet on each winner was collected, and these women
couldn’t have mixed the tickets. Either they had become
confused by the babble, and asked for the wrong horse, or
the excitement of a close finish had so upset them that
they could imagine anything. Inquired afterwards from
other clerks, and learned that their experiences were the
same, also that one crazy creature had been raising
feheoi all along the line by endeavoring to obtain payment
of a t.cket that had been issued by a welsher two years
ago !
* * * *
“Yarrum”: Other afternoon, near a lonely
spot called the Devil’s Eibow, I met a commercial travel-
ler making for Newcastle, and got into conversation. He
wore a scared expression under his panama, and I won-
, dered what it was all about. After a bit he said : “ Must
be pushin’ on, as I’ve been collecting, and have money
about me.” lie wanted to reach town before dark.
Asked him about how much he usually carried. “ Well,”
said he, after much hes.tation, “ I have one seventeen-and-
six on me now', but 1 have had as much as £10.” Told
him he should be armed, and he produced a revolver
loaded in every chamber. “ You see,” he remarked, “if
I w ere robbed, and didn’t put up a fight, the police would
be round to tiie missus wantin’ to know just how we
stood, and what money we owed. Then the newspapers
would have an account of an 'alleged stickin’ up.’ No
alleged biz for me ! If a man bails me up I’m going to
hurt him so that he’ll not be hard to find.” Imagine a
man hawking a gun to guard thirty-seven and six! It’s
an insult to the district !
* * * *
By using barium as an adulterant hides can be
increased largely in weight (and they are sold by weight).
But the leather is inferior, for it sweats when worn, will
not easily polish, and is less durable than when un-
adulterated. The Queensland Government thought to
legislate against the evil, but if it made its ow'n tanners
honest by law, there is nothing to stop the southern
manufacturer from sending in boots made from barium-
laden leather. The Queensland Government might order
confiscation, but who would pay for the seized goods? So
the matter, with a copy of the Bill which Morgan had
prepared, has been sent on to Deakin, who would do good
work by getting a measure through the Federal House.
The evil of this adulteration travels, of course, where the
leather goes, and the British buyer is now so chary of the
Australian article that he demands a certificate before he
will buy.
* * * *
An Australian quack now practising claims “ to
possess the X-rays in his eyes” The cure of cancer ai.d
h.vdatids is his strong point. He fixes his eye on tl.e
sufferer, and quickly diagnoses the case. Then he makes
a clutch at the patient in the region where the trouble is
supposed to be located. The patient suffers no pain, but
it all passes into the operator’s body. This tommy-rot is
believed by “intelligent” people, who pay the qua,k
generously for medicine which is to conclude the cure
that his X-eye started.


The Proper
Time to Buy
0
For the Coming'
CHRISTMAS.
Do you realise how near at hand Christmas is ? It may seem quite distant to you if you go by the
almanac but the days are so short that it will be here before you know it. And do you remember
the trouble you had to get something to suit you last year when you put off buying till the last
minute ? No doubt you promised yourself you would never be caught that way again. Well, we
can help you. We have a full Christmas Stock ready if you call, and profusely-illustrated Price
Lists for free distribution if you live in the Country. We pay all postages, no matter where you live.
No. E9C6B. —9ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle, £2 10s.
No. FllB—Massive Dumb-
bell and Oval Links, 9ct.
Gold, £1 5s ; 15et. Gold,
£2 5s ; Silver, 4s.
No. 02358.—9 ct. Gold “Nellie Stewart” Bangle, £2 10s.
15ct. Gold, £4.
No. G 5068.
15ct. Gold,
Pearl and
Sapphire
Pin,
No. G 4902. —Artistic Brooch, 9ct.
Gold, Pearls and Turquoise, 355.
Tobacco Pouch, Silver Shield,
4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
Gold Mounted, 17s 6d, 21s.
Initials, Is extra.
No. G 4723. Hall-Marked
9ct. Gold Medal, 17s 6d.
No. G796o.—The “ Watteau ” Hair Brush, Solid Silver, 15s 6d.
Silver-mounted Comb to match, 3s 6d.
No. G 7046.— Sterling- Silver
Manicure Set, £1 ss.
No. GB7os.—Lady’s Solid Silver Cherub
Purse. A Marvel of Value. Order
one to-day. Only 20s. Size 3in. x 2in.
No. G6B92.—Silver-mounted
Shaving Paper Holder, 10s 6d.
= . .....
No. G 5753. —Very Handsome Toilet Tray, exquisite centre design,
best Silver-plate, 17s 6d.
No. GSGI2. —Fine Leather and Sil-
ver-mounted Handkerchief Bag-
The Fashionable Novelty. 16s 6d.
Better ones for 21s, 32s 6d. Steel
Bead ditto; with Chain Handle,
10s 6d.
No. G7o3B.—Best Quality Silver-mounted Shaving-
l’aper Holder, 17s (jd.
No. G2G36. —15cfc. Gold and Real Pearl Set
Lyre Brooch, £2 ss.
No. C1733.—15ct. Gold Brooch
and Pendant Combination, set all
Pearls or Pearls and Turquoise,
£4 10s. Cheaper, isct. Gold and
Beal Pearl Stars, £2 10s.
No. GHS3.
9ct. Gold
and Pearl
Scarf Pin,
13s 6d
No. G 6498.— Pretty New Style Oct. Gold Bangle, £1 ss.
rmniiDir
No. 149a.—16ct. Gold and Single Diamond Bangle, £6.
Telescopic Pencil Cases, in Solid Silver, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d,
14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 255. In 9ct. Gold, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 255, and 40s.
In 15ct. Gold, £3 10s, £4 10s, £5 10s.
Necklet, with Gold Snap, 68. Superior Qualities, 10s 6d, 14s 6d, 21s.
No. ClB42.—Parisian Pearl
No. G 849& —Silver-Mounted Pin
Cushion, 9s 6d.
No. G 9281. —Patent Cigar Piercer. Nickel, Is ; Solid Silver, 8s 6d
Silver-mounted Shoe Lift, Boot Button Hook, and
Glove Hook, in Velvet-lined Box, 6s 6d.
No. 22.— Cluster Ring, set with 9
Diamonds, price £3O; larger size,
price £37 10s.
No. GsBss—Case of Silver Hook and
Lift, 108 6d.
No G 7044.— Silver-mounted Manicure Set,
£1 12s 6d.
pjj'yaASt
G7os3.—Silver and Out-Glass Hair-Pin Box, 7s 6d.
No. G 7901. —“ Watteau ” Pin Tray, Solid Silver,
12s 6d. A Choice Present.
You can make no mistake if you send all your XMAS ORDERS to
o
tStiand Corner, George Sydney
You have the Newest Goods in the Greatest Variety to seleot from and at most Moderate Prices.


BOVRIL
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
FIGS
in 5 and lO pound Boxes.
FINEST FRUIT in the WORLD
SOME BOOK
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
s
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young.and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a Superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s6dposted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, ls6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. [pf Established 20 Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got It.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Glrds, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s Gd.
Aristotle, 3s (id. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Dove and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s Gd post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &g\, with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s (id. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is Gd post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather •
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Gd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Glide,
5s Gd posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s Gd each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
m
DIET
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Street"’, SYDNEY.
MOUNKASTLE’S,
HATTEBS.
NEW ADDRESS
305 <a€©rgs St., Sydney-
GENT’S GOOD HATS.
This
Trade
Mark
fcONDO^
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Solu Agunts in N.S. W.:
DAVID BRAHAIV3 & CO.
75 King Street, Sydney.
Haas
'offerers from Deafness or Hek_ Noises
desiring a comp’ete aiul permanent cure
should write to 'I he L. R. VERNON (. O.
i 0 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
l’hlet desc ibing an entirely new stlf-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this parer.
Himself Cured.
T'jEAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and
Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PABKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN arid
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address —
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYiIDiTSY.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a EIMPLB MEANS OF SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one Interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervcus-
-1 ess, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
ttle will aloe Free
to each per-
son writing
to us one copy our beautiiully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
de'ay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Wr.te to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, Vlt
Pica? e mention this paper.
Superior
to
All Others .
Jt\e JOarjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
£/]3 British jVfedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
COLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
FOOD
For INFANTS,]
INVALIDS I
» nd<he AGED.]
Benqer’s r'ooD is sold in Tins 3
by Chemists, &c. everywhere. J
G. R. Sims tells his Hinglish readers
what’s the matter with them :—
It is this hide-bound conservatism. We declaim against
the Germans and Americans for taking our trade and for
becoming- every day more prosperous while we sink
deeper into the slough of adversity, but we refuse to
accept the policy by which our rivals have achieved
success. There can be but one climax to our crass
stupidity. We shall perish in our pride.
The Pride of Race is pretty well gone now that
Hoggenheimer runs the national show. The
Pride of Wealth is going after it. But the Pride
of Stupidity retains its ancient vigor.
This is about a parson’s half-crown. Carl
Kayser called the other day to see Rev. J.
Spooner, of Brisbane, and arrange his wedding.
After the particulars were given, Carl said a local
solicitor had some cash of his in hand, but the
legal person was out of town, and meantime his
landlord was pushing him for his night’s board.
The parson, no doubt having the marriage fee in
view, nearly fell over himself to advance 2s. Gd.,
Carl promising to turn up with the bride and the
cash next day at 4 o’clock. Next day 4.15 saw a
parson at the police station looking for a German
and one-eighth of a “quid.” Carl was found and
brought before the court, but he pleaded that the
money was a loan, and that borrowing 2s. 6d. was
not obtaining cash under false pretences. He
swaggered out of court a dismissed man, and the
parson followed half-crownless. Yet he should
have had something said to him for bringing into
disrepute an honorable social proceeding which
leads to the much-needed birth-rate.


DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph.
%
MCLBOUtiNE
G unmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and ail the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
r Perspiration and Dust, 1
Iso disagreeable, yet so common in hot |
weather, can easily be removed by using
CALVERT’
CARBOLIC
Toilet Soap.
A pleasantly perfumed pure antiseptic
soap which can be used for all toilet
purposes and as a preventive of conta-
gion. It contains 10% Crystal Carbolic,
and so has a healthy action on the skin,
and assists to improve the complexion.
Calvert’s Garbolic Ointment
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients
to cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed
skin, piles, cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
L.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
J
ASTH MA CURE
BRINIAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bold by all Chemists .
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (illus-
trated), 11 Mens Sana in Corpora
Sano," Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN. The following subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varicocele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for sufferers to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you wane to know,
and what vou ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation
WRITE TO-DAY.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S.
Eng.
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., Limited
Merchant Drapers and Tailors, importers,
Manufacturers and Retailers.
TU r rFHCKFT GROUND.— Our Prices for Cricketing- Clothes are in accordance with our usual Low
FOR ™fof?H “ the subjoined Items it .iifbe s«n that < OUTFIT gu.mnteed t. Look
Well and Wear Well can be had of bur Clothing' Department FOR ONE GUINEA.
Hats.— WHITE DRILL, Is 3d, Is 6d, Is lid, 2s 6d ; with Specially Wide Brim, 2s 3d each. ROOT PANAM ,
Unbleached 3s lid : Bleached, 5s 6d each.
Caps. Cream Serge CLOTH, Celluloid Peak, Is 6d each. SHOWER-PROOF and TWEED, Is, Is Gd each.
Belts.— Boys’ and Youths’, Elastic or Leather, 9d each. Men’s, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d, 2s each.
Shirts —ln Plain WHITE and FANCY Shirtings, with Collar and Pocket, 1/11, 2/6, 2/11, 3/6, u/Ll, 4/6 eac .
Trousers Sizes 3to 7, White FLANNEL, 14s 6d per pair. Made to Measure, 16s 6d per pair. White and
Brown DRILL, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d per pair.
Sac Coats.— Sizes 3 to 7, Striped Flannel, 10s 6d each.
The Big Block, Edward & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane, Queensland
And at MARYBOROUGH, Q., MURWILLUMBAH, N.S.W., and 27 MILTOM STREET, LONDON.
|o» ilwderwr^ters , fire extinguisher
-- ■ ...COMBINING...
SIMPLICITY, QUICK ACTION, HANDY SIZE.
Highly Concentrated Extinguishing Power.
Long Distance Throw and Certainty of Action.
The most Efficient and Reliable Hand Fire Ex -
' tinguisher ever produced.
Single Machine £3 10s.
Agent—p. A. HOWARD, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the. most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
ue t ” FIiOOK STAIHJB stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Boideis,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desiied.
<<aAPOLIIV” AIAJMIAUM EVAM I*: I. gives unsightly Pipes. Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarinsliable silvei finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on. . .
JAPAVESfi PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled m lustre ana
a,u.heftimu Adheres to any surface. For all deoorattve purposes,
economical and satisfactory. . .
.For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in tliis climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of -OUR FAVORITE- GOLD ENAMEL “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, -SAPOLIN” BATH
jusiww. L
REQUW Q
m
V
.r
*!> ( b.
**K*
m
AOS TRALASIAN C QMje-.ur /»(*
Free Yourselves
From Pains and Aches. Don’t Suffer Loss of
Vital Power or Weakness,
NO ONE need have a Weak Back, or need suffer the tortures of a
geicje of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, or Painful Joints, 'there
is no reason why you should be troubled with your Liver or Kidneys,
with Indigestion, Constipation, Dyspepsia, Insomnia, Lassitude, etc.,
when we can offer you a permanent cure.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
IS MADE TO CURE ALL THESE TROUBLES. It invigorates the
Svstem removes the Uric Acid and Congested Blood Vessels, soothes and
invigorates the Nervous System, builds New Tissues, and strengthens
the Back and Kidneys. It cures while you sleep, and removes pain m a
night. Thousands gratefully praise it. Use it, and you will never regret it.
Mr A J DAVY, of GLEN INNES, N.S.W., writes : ‘‘Dear Sirs,-I wore your Electric Belt
everv'niaht for three months, and am pleased to say that I now feel as good as ever I did in
mv Ufe 9 Before I got the Belt I suffered terribly from Backache, but that trouble is now a
thing of the past, and lam wonderfully changed in‘every way, thanks to your Belt.
SEND FOR ONE OF OUR ILLUSTRATED BOOKS,
Which will explain more fully the great advantages of our Treatment.
Everyone should read it and know what Electricity is doing as applied to
the cure of Weakness and Disease. We will send you one FREE and
POSTAGE PAID on application.
_ ATT IF YOU CAN, and let us prove to vou how our wonderful Belt does all
ALiJU. we claim for it. We give you our vearsof experience and ADVICE FREE.
Our Offices corner of Market and Castlereagh Streets, are cpeu daily liom 9 a.m. to
8.30 p.ni., so come and let us explain this treatineut.
TUB HcLAUGHLIH CO.,
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
167 E. SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
90 WILLIAM STREET, PERTH.
64 WILLIS STREET, WELLINCTOM, N.Z.
William Charles Crawford
Harry Joseph Crawford
f
V.
iJKDIESJ^^ATTENmO^^!
A PERFECT COMPLEXION BEAUTIFIER AND
REMOVER OF WRINKLES.
The Only ELECTRIC MASSAGE ROLLER (patented by Dr.'John Wilson Gibbes)
with the World-Famous EPIDERMIA CREAM, The Wonderful Skin
Demulcent, applied in conjunction to specially facilitate the Massage.
All ladies who have given this a trial are delighted with the result. Rollers supplied
at- silver 15/6 : Gold, 18/6 : Epldermia Cream at 2/6 —posted free to all States. Apply
onbv at THE AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY Ltd., 177 LIVERPOOL ST.,
SIDNEY. ggßgr* Beware of All Imitations and Fraudulent Rollers. ""“
j “Is superior even to meat and oi
Vl Inestimable value as afco.t.'
- Vhow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
"A diet rich inproteid MAKES PHYSICAL &
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing cliildren a
wh deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,"
©
g>
<v°
o
,^ v
WHAT IS CATARRH?
medicator.
CatarrH is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose am) adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
vhe sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures !
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
l’rice,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Drunkeness Cured.
EUCRASY may be given in Tea, Coffee, or Food,
thus Secretly Curing the Patient without his
knowledge or HATTO N_ wllo
cured her husband with
Euerasy, now writes us
that she has also cured a
near and dear relative,
and makes a most earnest
appeal to all other women
to save the Drunkard.
Send name and address
to the
r s
EUGRASY GO., 62 Hunter St,, Sydney,
and they will send you booklet and particulars
FREE.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a lew hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson er Key to Hypnotism which I send
free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
be mtiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypo°tize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you notlrug. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also nic ude a large
package of other value ble, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a liietu....
White to-day. Address *
=»rof. R. H. BARRADEN, UU Pitt St., Sydney*
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
gout
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure for GOU I\ and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
BO restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. Hd. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or SLore
throughout the Australian Colonies.
DRUNKENNESS CURED
Secretly or otherwise at home, at small cost, guaranteed ;
a revelation in treatment. Book post free. Write to
ERASMUS CAMPBELL, Melbourne Chambers, 27t
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN SUMMER CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., December 26
M PERTH CUP, Perth, W.A., December 28
LAUNCESTON CUP, Launceston, Tas., 31st January, 1906
HOBART CUP, Elwick, Hobart, February 7
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
Ticket, and 4d. on each lOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St-, Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
True to Nature.
F.Wolff & Sohn’s
..KARLSRUHE..
ftft
o$
Vlpv
THE FINEST
PERFUME
IN THE MARKET.
SOLD BY ALL
Chemists and Storekeepers,
sole: agents.
LOHMANN & Co. ■ Melbourne & Sydney.
J
v \ if. iitnrn*.rm-irTl'r i .< >i
J,
THCH FA.MOXJ» REMEDY FOR
COUGHB, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
-01 ingin allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop Consumption has
never been known to exist where Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. ° ° J ’
jA. IrClii OF COXJGrTIS I
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
a Commercial traveller suffering in.
TENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
much avithout contracting a cold.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —In 1898, I was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling: representative for a mercantile
house. Having- contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man, and used all kinds of chemists’
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful, Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was about done for,
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured me.
I took another bottle away from the city with me, and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
Tweed River—three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and travelled
about 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. \V. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here,
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia, I was
induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles,
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and down a vertical shaft without any
feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as your
Bronchitis Cure.—Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLIN'S, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
CONGESTION OP THE LUNGS.
A BAD CASE QUICKLY AND 0 LMPLETELY CURED
AFTER OTHER TRE miENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. Hearns, Chemist, Geelong,
Sir,—Will you please send me some medicine for the
following- illness A fortnight ago I had Influenza, and
it settled on the lungs. I now have congestion of the
lungs ; the doctor says so, but his treatment has not done
me any good. My breathing is short, and I have a shore
cough and a frothy-white spit ; my sides are sore to
the touch, and painful. It hurts me to lie down. I
am very weak, and I perspire a lot at night, and my body
and lungs feel burning. lam getting worse. I feel
worse to-day. Please post the necessary medicine to
Sorrento, and I will send you the monev, and oblige,
M. J. BOXELL,
Relieving Postmistress, Sorrento, Victoria.
The treatment sent effected a complete cure, as the
following letter testifies
Mr. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—Many thanks for the medicine. I herewith
enclose postal note in payment. lam much obliged to
you for sending the medicine so promptly. It has done
me a lot of good ; in fact, I have quite recovered.
M. J. BOXELL.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam sure
there are a great many people out this wav that if they
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully
J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Dear Sir, —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and can’t be licked.—Yours sincerely,
“ W. TREMELLEN,
“ Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes " After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without, benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, u'hich was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he states “ I am
keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthma.'
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who, during -the last few years, has 'been repeatedly
working for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant,
Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so marked
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Behove us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had a very bad cough, so I
bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three day s.
My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad cough
for the past twelve months, then used the remaining half
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years.
You are at liberty to use this letter in any way y r ou
please.—Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTON,
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hoarne. Dear Sir, —I feel in duty bound to express
my gratitude first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
and Asthma Cure, next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. My wife
being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle if your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, aid, con-
tinuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure My
wife and I recommend it to all our acquaintances Xho
suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publi-
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEN,
Elsternwick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Accept my testimony to the success of your
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ili last February in Mel-
bourne, and was recommended by a friend to try your
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immense relief,
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished.
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottlesof it, as
I would not like to be without wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KILMARTIN,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
Size, 4s. 6d.
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
branch depot-
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
Tel. 3562.


THE SCIENTIFIC CURE FOR
INDIGESTION.
From Mr. James Joshua, Catherine Street, Leichhardt, Sydney, N.S.W., 6th March, 1905.
“For fully a year I had suffered acutely from indigestion, headache and biliousness. I could
scarcely eat anything solid without having to endure great pain. My rest at night was greatly dis-
turbed, and this made me very irritable. I was under medical treatment for some time, but derived
no real benefit from’it. Having-heard of the good effects of Warner’s Safe Cure, in the cases of other
sufferers, I decided to give it a trial. After taking the first two bottles I felt considerably better, and
a few more bottles thoroughly cured me. lam now in the best of good health.”
From Mr. W. H. Samson, Haydonton, Murrurundi, January, 1905. .
»* j suffered very muck frem indigestion for a considerable time through always being in the bush*
and, of course, living on rough food, Many a time I have sat on the edge of my bunk at night unablo
to lie down the pain being so great in the pit of my stomach. I felt as if there were a great Limp
there Hearing that Warner’s Safe Cure was a cure for indigestion, I took a few bottles, with the
result that all pain left me and I was again able to eat, Sleep and work Well, Some of my mates also
take Warner's Safe Ctire and speak well of it.”
From Mr, Michael Kerrigan, Churbh Place, Malop Street, Geelong, Vic., 28th August, 1904, ;
“ Two years ftgO f Was fcdnscioUs of a loss of nerve power and a falling off lh mental activity, I
Was in a distressingly dyspeptic Condition, and suffered severely froin frontal headaches, At first I
did not pay iiitfflh heed to these symptoms, but When I found that I was gradually getting worse and
the headache attacks more frequent, I thought it Was time to do something to restore my health,
Speaking to a friend one day about My condition, he advised me to try Warner s Safe Cure, I did so,
With rapid and marvellous results, for in a few weeks I was quite free from all symptoms of dyspepsia,
the pain in my head ceased, and since that time I have had no trouble with thy health, I hhve recom-
mended Warner’s Safe Curb to several others, who have taken it With great and lasting benefit.
From Mr. John O’Shea, 59 Pine Street, Sydney, N.S.W., 10th March, 1905,
sluggish
My
a frieud to take Warner s oaie v>ure, ». <.uu ......
and in a few weeks the medicine gave me new vigor and vitality, so that I was enabled to discharge
my duties with spirit and zeal
From Miss Lena Montgomery. 178 Flinders Street, Adelaide, S.A., 22nd September, 1904.
“For several years I had been a martyr to indigestion, accompanied by severe headache and
biliousness My greatest suffering was after taking food, when the pain was so intense that I became
reluctant to eat. There was always a fulness and a sense of oppression after meals ; in fact, every-
thing I ate gave me great pain. As a natural consequence I grew weak and exceedingly nervous. I
tried nearly^every known means to obtain the ease I longed for, but without avail. Finally Warner s
Safe Cure was recommended to me. The effect of the first few bottles was wonderful, and in a short
time I was quite cured. I can now enjoy my food without any fear. I strongly recommend anyone
suffering from indigestion to give Warner s bafe Cure a trial.
From Mr J. G. Smith, corner of Chum apd Maple Streets, Golden Square, Vic., 19th August, 1904.
“For many years I suffered as only those can who are victims to indigestion in its chronic form
Almost everything I ate gave me excruciating pain, which would continue for some time, and I
became very irritable and despondent. Nothing gave me permanent relief until I tried Warners
Safe Cure, whieh proved to be the right thing in the right place, font has completely and per-
manently cured mei lam now in the best of good health, and a though sixty years of age I can take
my shift in the mine and put in eight hours’ work almost as well as any man.
From Mr. T. Lloyd, 36 Hart Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney, 13th September, 1904.
“I suffered for months from indigestion and biliousness. I tried several remedies but found no
benefit from them. I was telling a friend of my trouble, and he said. Why don t you try Warner s
Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills ? I suffered the same as yon are doing and they cured me. I felt
doubtful but decided to take his advice. The first few doses of the Safe Cure made me feel sick but
I persevered, and am thankful I did, for when I had taken three bottles of Warner s Safe Cure, and a
phial of Warner’s Safe Pills, I was cured, and able to enjoy my food again.
From Mr. Charles Smith, 300 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W., 10th March, 1905.
“ I had been suffering from biliousness for several years, accompanied by extreme weakness and
prostration, but I paid little attention to it, attributing my condition to overwork. It was not until
indigestion, followed by confirmed dyspepsia, afflicted me, and my strength began to fail rapidly, that +
commenced to search for some remedy to give me some relief I tried various preparations but it.
was not until I began to take Warner’s Safe Cure that relief came to me. I perseveied with tht
medicine, and in the course of a few weeks was quite restored to health.
A treatise explaining fully why Warner Safe Cure cures indigestion will be sent post free, by
H. H. Warner and Co. Ltd., Australasian Brancn, Melbourne, Vic. lb
SUMMER
%
l
i
RASH.
LAST summer,” says Mr. J. Parker,
of 145 Alice-street, Newtown,
Sydney, “a rash broke out all
over my body and the irritation
caused me to be constantly scratching and
rubbing it. I bathed my body with different
solutions, but could gain no relief. Remem-
bering I had Zam-Buk in the house I
applied it to the rash, and, to my surprise,
after two applications all the fire and irri-
, tation disappeared. I continued the treat-
' ment for two or three days, by which time
the rash had completely disappeared. My
wife is also a great believer in Zam-Buk.
We have three children, and they are always
knocking themselves about, and there is a
constant call for Zam-Buk, and when a
little is applied to their cuts or bruises,
they go away quite happy. To my mind,
no home is complete without its pot of
Zam-Buk.”
ZAM-BUK ALLAYS
IRRITATION.
*
Rub
it in”
To You.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HESITANT yet striving
To grasp this prize unwon,
? I, Icarus, came driving
Too near, too near the sun ;
The sun of gold locks twining,
The flame of eyes a-fire,
The glow of lips declining
Yet trembling with desire.
Love’s sirens sit a-singing.
Love’s wreckers light their piles, •
And men like moths go winging
Around the lamp of smiles.
Now hopeful, now despairing,
Fearful, now fain to prove—
How had I found such daring
Had I not found such love ?
God’s cleap blue sky above you,
God’s clean earth at your feet,
And all good men to love you—
How dared I love you, sweet ?
And yet —my fond heart fancies
You keep for none but me
Those burning, wishing glances
That no man else shall see.
The wide room rings with laughter.
I, silent, stand afar
And watch you, looking after*
As moths may watch a star 5
And When the guests have freed you
I know that we shall meet
Where the soft night-winds need you,
And I so need you, sweet I
Sweeps up from the dim garden
The scent of lilac flower ;
This is the outlaw’s pardon,
And this the rebel’s hour.
One touch of warm hearts meeting,
One whisper sweet with fears —
Oh ! That mad moment’s greeting
Is worth life’s empty years !
Why have you picked this pebble,
When all your faith gives gold ?
Your hand comes, a white rebel,
My rebel hand to hold !
But I’ll not ask the reason,
Dear love ; enough to know
Our hearts have their guest season
When all your dull guests go !
U.S.A.
WILL H. OGILYIE.
A Song of the Swamps.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SIT on the boundary fence that divides
McThree’s cattle run from McHour’s, and
with a pencil that smells of smoke, on paper
cribbed from the book-keeper’s office, I write a
song of the swamps, that in this land of unexpected-
ness are here, there, and on either hand, gaping
scars, or beds of brittle, whispering reeds in the
long drought, but now, since the rains have cpme,
and autumn is upon us, stains of damp verdant
green, and rifts of gleaming water.
Miles away, beyond the hectic green of the
plains, run the zig-zag hills of blue, little Ghains of
irregular heights, and up almost to their feet—a
dark shadow on the horizon —creeps the quaking
swamp. It is a dreary marshland, covered with
wild iris and flat rapier-pointed rushes that shake
and quiver in every breath of wind. I have seen
it in a spring-time, many years ago, blossoming in
wanton glory, truly “ a cloth of gold,” pure gold—
not the dross of cultivated flowers, but color spun
from the sun. Then a wind, slipping suddenly in
from nowhere, would bend back the gleaming
reeds and heavy-flowering irises till the whole
marshland quivered, and a sea of gold seemed to
surge and break tempestuously round the feet of
the hills. But that was long ago, and for many
springs the irises have not blossomed. Before me
lies the black swamp, through which McThree’s
fences run in a drunken line, and from which great
gums, with drought-seared limbs and flood-scarred
boles, crouch against the skies. A road —a cattle
track—twists through the swamp like a hesitating
snake, turning here and doubling there to escape
the treacherous gilgis and yawning holes that
honeycomb the ground.
Once I saw a great flood rise in it, and shoulder
high among the gums. The rains had come sud-
denly after a drought of two summers, and in a
night a great wall of tawny water racing from the
hills had lifted the river and creeks bank high
with eddying currents and masses of yellow foam.
For miles the river could be heard mutilating its
banks, and all night long came the fret of the
flood through the sodden branches of trees that
had fallen athwart the creek. Just before dawn,
when the foam had piled high behind the drifting
logs, and the stream, like a maddened dog, was
tearing at its sides, a tiny trickle of water slid
cautiously through the broken bank, and, like a
dirty brown snake, wormed out towards the swamp,
pattering in the dry leaves like all the mice in
creation skurrying on a bark roof. Behind, the
creek widened and broadened to a lake, and still
the little brown snake wriggled onward through
the trees. Have you ever heard the whisper of
miles of rising water yawning through millions
and millions of dead leaves ? It is the same sound
that the thirsty tide makes crawling on beaches of
dry sand. Higher and higher rose tne flood with
its many voices—the trampling of water round the
boles of trees ; the roar as it leaped suddenly upon a
barren gilgi, the purr of settling earth, and the
frightened crickets shrilling from the higher
branches in deafening chorus. Before night a
sullen sheet of water swept from east to west, and
as the clouds broke at sunset, bursting into flames
of red, the gaunt black gums for miles waded in a
sea of rippling blood. But now there are only
grey, leprous scars to show where the water
pillaged long 8 go.
Once, hunting for emu eggs at the back of the
run, in a valley between two hills, I rode suddenly
from a hillside path of moss upon the dead
swamp. It was high noon I remember, and on
either side the hills swam up into a hot blue sky,
and the red mountain creepers leaped daringly
from rock to rock ; but in between lay desolation
itself. A shrunken depression, the flats covered
with grey sedge, and the centre a dreary sheet of
greyer water, sodden as wool, and blotted
with white uncanny reeds. There was never
a note of bird, and never a hint of flower.
Every tree that grew about it was dead, and
stark, and silvery with leprosy, and one great
gum, riven by a thunderbolt ages back,
stretched black, menacing hands to either hill.
A withered scar on the valley s breast, 1 left it,
riding into the sunset. , ,
But it is the little green flats that lie below the
homestead I love, falling in cascades of verdure
to the river. So green and lush they are now,
and clamorous with birds. The blue Sof water
that winds in and out of the vivid reeds is white
and brown and black with birds, and all day long
comes the skurry of their wings. White cranes
step gingerly through the tender rushes and rifts
of gleaming water that the dawns flush with gold
and the sunset with ripples of crimson—little
marshes that the summer stamps out with burning
feet, but which form again, if only for a brief life,
after the first early rain 3. My pencil jolts
jerkily—it is almost done, and already the sUti is
below the gums, and the long, long shadows stalk
like walking towers across the plain, A breeze
blows strong from the black swamp—pungent
with gum leaves ; a flock of white cookatoes flies
overhead, shrieking and screeching homewards.
and—
CARO.
The Man in the Beef.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Conducting a byewfei*y id the Gulf
Country is more interesting thaii pearlirig
Or scraping the sea bottom for shell. A
Eanaka May own a fleet of liiggers, blit it takes a
white man to build a malt-room and a vat. The
Tropic Brewery was a galvanized iron building
with a 10,003- gallon tub in the centre. A navi-
gable inlet and a small pier were its principal
assets, and most of the beer went down to the sea
in ships.
The Japanese sheller is not a great drinker, but
the sight of a perpendicular drink has been known
to interest him seriously.
Years ago the Tropic Brewery was the centre
of a great thirst. The captains of luggers and
other small craft ran their dingies alongside the
pier and ordered hogsheads between tides. The
thirst of a sailor who has been wiping salt off his
face for three months is not to be measured by
pints. A man with a mere two-pint thirst was
looked upon up there in those days as a human
derelict drifting to a bad end. But the hard-
voiced mariner with a camel in his throat was
publicly esteemed; he could hit a policeman
without getting locked up, or tread on a dog
without being abused.
The Tropic Brewery was managed by a German
named Schultz. Lighters and cargo tramps
loaded from his jetty, and it looked at one time
as though his beer would knock the Queensland
rum trade off its feet.
Schultz had a hard time with the Gulf battlers.
Each morning disclosed two or three beachcombers
lying in helpless attitudes about the brewery floor.
Locks and bars failed to keep them out; they
crawled in under the iron roof thin and weary,
but morning found them stout and full of song,
Schultz said that a Gulf dead-beat would climb
over the rim of a volcano to be in at the death of
a homeless beer.
Wong Ghat, the Chinese butcher, brought a
young crocodile from one of the back creeks and
sold it to the German. Schultz put his dog in a
wire cage and allowed the reptile free run of the
brewery after dark. The brute seemed to like its
new quarters, and, to the German s relief, it
yapped and spluttered horribly the first time its
snout dropped accidentally into 3ft. of beer.
“My goot mans ” —he looked hard at the snort-
ing croc.—“you keep outside de peer in future.
After it had caught its first goat and cleared out
the dogs from the butcher s blood-hole it became
thoroughly domesticated.
The beachcombers now gave the brewery a wide
berth after dark, A committee of goats from the
township collected on the sand hill outside the
brewery and watched the crocodile basking in the
hot mud of the creek-bed. They finally decided
that it was a land-agent, and fled.
Schultz denied that the crocodile used to climb
round the vat platform and lie in the beer.
On the first Sunday after the opening of the
brewery every church in the township was empty.
The Rev. Father Murdoch came down upon the
beerworks with a kindling eye, and delivered his
sermon from the top of three casks.
One sweltering night Schultz invited a number
of German sailors to spend the evening in the
cool shadow of the big vat. The brewery doors
were locked, while the sunburnt Teutons sat on
tubs and sang songs of the Fatherland. Schultz
begged them to “ shake things oop.” He rolled a
cask of drink into position, and urged them to
make noises in their throats. One big-chested
sailor with a yellow beard ran round the big vat
singing a drinking song. The manager cheered,
while the others drenched him with beer drops to
keep him cool. Climbing suddenly to an overhead
beam, Yellowbeard cast aside his clothes and
poised himself stiffly over the 10,000 gallon vat.
“ Ach Gott! you must not! shouted the
terrified manager. “De peer vas no goot after-
vards. It liaf been coolin’ for Chreestmas veek.
Ooom down, Carl Schmidt.” , ~ ,
Carl waved his arms, drew a long breath and
dived into the vat. Rollers of froth heaved over
the rim of the giant tub ; the beer gurgled m its
agony. Then a large muffled silence spread itself
over the beer. Slowly, very slowly, Carl Sclnnidt
rose somewhere under the barm ; it heaved above
him like a snowtield. With beer-drenched hair and
eyes he struggled desperately to reach the side ot
the vat, but the deep froth blinded and choked him.
It took a 12ft. ladle to reach him, and when they
hauled him out he squelched like a half-drowned
lion. He remained semi-unconscious for halt-an-
hour, and when he recovered they gave him more
beer. Nine of them had to surround the manager
to keep him from strangling their betr-washed
countryman. , , £ .
No one knew definitely what becnme of that
10,000-gallon brew. A month or two later the
people further north admitted that Schultz s beer
was imoroving—it had acquired a fine German
Carl Schmidt never quite shook off the effects of
his bath. He returned to Frankfort, and was
appointed manager of a wurst factory, but his
strange habit of diving into the sausage mash
brought about his dismissal.
ALBEST DOBRINGTON.


Because Kidney Complaint can never get well of
itself, and, if neglected, ends in the Fatal
Bright's Disease, or Diabetes,
Tlie little leak, neglected, sinks the
mighty vessel; the tiny spark, neglected,
causes the tierce conflagration; the
seemingly trifling symptom of kidney com-
plaint (such as backache, urinary disorders,
gravel, irregular action of the heart, swell-
ing of the limbs, nervousness, languor,
headache, dizziness, cold hands and feet,
sallow complexion, &c.), leads on to the
fatal Bright’s Disease, dropsy, diabetes, and
other advanced kidney disorders.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
Should be taken at the FIRST
sign of anything wrong, ♦ ♦ ♦
They are the reliable medicine for
every disorder caused directly or indirectly
through kidney weakness or inflammation ;
they drive out the uric acid that irritates the
kidney membranes and clogs the passages.
Doan’s Fills have been in use for the past
seventy-five years ; they help the kidneys
in their great blood-filtering work, and give
tone to the whole Kidney organism.
IK
w
"Beery Picture Tells a Siory.”
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. Dellunga, 138 Campbell-street, Surry Hills, this city,
says • —“I can strongly recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
for kidney ailment. This remedy has proved very good in my
case. I suffered with the kidneys for a long while, and used
various remedies without success until I got these pills. I
suffered with severe pains in the small of my back, also with
headaches, giddiness, and flushes of blood to the head. My
eyesight was misty—indeed, I could scarcely see across the
street. lam not one to give in to an illness, but try to fight
against it; however, there were some days when I would not
be able to get up. A friend of mine, who had used Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills with splendid results, urged me to try
them. At length I did get them, but only after much per-
suasion, and when I used them I derived so much benefit that
I regret I did not use them the very first time they were recom-
mended to me. Had I done so, I would have been saved a lot of
suffering. Three boxes cured me, and it is some time since I
used them, and I am still well.”
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mrs. Andrew McDonald, 3 Cheltenham-street, Balmain,
says Three years ago my husband was very bad with a lame
back. All the time he did no work, his back was so crippled.
He always reckoned that it was caused by the kidneys. He
was occasionally free from pain, but sometimes he could scarcely
get out of bed in the mornings, feeling, he would say, as if he
were gone in the loins. Mr. Smith, next door, was always
telling him to get Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and he did
get them at last. These pills did him so much good that he was
able to start work, and has been working regularly ever since.
At the worst of times he has very slight pains now, but mostly
none whatever.”
Mrs. McDonald makes a further statement,’three years later.
She says:—“My husband never has backache now; he was
cured three years ago, and has been quite well ever since. My
son Andrew used them with great success since I made the above
statement. He had very severe backache, and two boxes cured
him. He has had no sign of the ailment for eighteen months
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Store*
keepers at 2/9 per box (6 boxes,
1513), or will be posted on receipt of
price by FOSTEB-IVIcCLELLAN CD*,
76 Piii-ctrcct, Sydney, N.3.W.
Backache
Kidney
The Destroyers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE are the Arch-Destroyers ! white-
handed, soft and fair,
Who kneel at the shrine of Fashion,
whose watchword is “Never Spare ! ”
We are the Arch-Destroyers! timid-souled, frail,
and slim,
Who li ive rava; 1 earth’s war-worn borders to
their faintest, furthermost rim.
Only the great dumb sorrow that never was
clothed in words;
Only the unwrit anguish of an army of bright-
winged birds,
Measures our meed of triumph—echoes it every-
where —
We are the Arch-Destroyers whose watchword is
“ Never Spare 1 ”
We are the Arch-Destroyers ! for us have the
ships gone forth
And wrestled with dark and danger and the frost
fiend of the North !
We are the Arch-Destroyers ! for us the ice
gleams red
Where, on the Arctic ice-floes, the seal calf mourns
her dead.
We, who have never shivered ’neath the shreds of
a wretched clout,
Send for a splendid caprice our toiling bond-
slaves out!
And never a sea so sullen, and never a sky so
gray,
That they flinch from the face of danger and
nerve them to disobey.
We are the Arch-Destroyers ! woes of the world
attest !
For us are the reeking altars of sacrifice daily
drest !
From the poles to the burnt equator our minions
have riven and torn
From the shuddering brute creation the glories
that we have worn.
The jewels that blazon bravely on bosom and
haughty head
Flash forth with a baleful lustre grim messages
from the dead 1
The gold that is girt about us in bracelet and
brooch and stud
Is heavy with guilt of murder—is tarnished with
mire and mud.
We are the Arch-Destroyers !—timid-souled, soft,
and fair—
Queens of the world of Fashion, whose queen-
doms are everywhere.
Quick !—to your posts, ye liallions! wielders of
fire and steel,
Ours is the right pre-emptive to harry, and not to
heal!
There is treasure yet for the winning,-where the
bones of the dead men lie !
There is treasure yet for the buying, no ransom
but blood will buy !
Spare not ! —an ’ye would serve us. Serve us not,
an’ ye dare !
For we are the Arch-Destroyers, whose watch-
word is “Never Spare.’.’
VIC.
M. E. J. PITT.
Young Herb.’s Philosophy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ - th’ ole man got th’ word
w y about th’ row at school, how did
he perform ! My oath, didn’t he do
a tumble,” remarked young Herb, in continuation
of a deed of.derring-do, which he had just related
to the frequenters of Bill Murphy’s hairdressing
.emporium. “ I knoo he w.ouldn’t belt me in front
o’ all the chaps at the school, but I got home
quiek-an-lively, an’ I thinks ter meself, ‘This is
no place fer me.’ ,
“So I busts open me aunt’s drawer and gets
out me Savin’s Bank book that she kept ter
instil habits o’ thrift inter me. , An’ off
I skips an’ lifts the lot—two poun’ eight
an’ fourpence. I made fer the station, I
promise yer. Shrubb an’ Duffey ’d ha’ bin lef’
standin’. I screws along the time-table ter see
what train goes first, but there wasn’t anything
ter suit me style o’ beauty till I strikes Gisborne.
Arty Smith, a feller that used ter go ter school an’
lef’ last Chris’mas, lives at Gisborne ; so I ups ter
the ticket office and slung down me four an’ a kick
in style. ‘Here’ I says ter the feller behin’—
‘ here,’ I says, y’ know the way, jest ’sif I was
Rupert Clarke, ‘gimme a secon’ single ter
Gisborne.’ Then I did the Julius Knight act up
an’ down tli’ platform. I promise yer there
weren’t no flies on me then. I felt I looked the
real thing every time. But hones’, I ivas scared
the old mun’d reveal his pleasin’ personality every
minute, an’, when th’ train went off, I wasn’t a
bit glad.
“ I got ter Gisborne all right, an’ strolled outer
the station ’sif I knoo the place well. I didn’t
like ter stick up anyone ter fin’ out where Arty
lived for fear they’d sniff. I was jest goin’ ter
once, but I looked up an’ saw a trooper watchin’
me, so I jest walked up ter one o’ the hotels an’
put on me'lordly air again. * ‘ I’m stayin’ here
ter-night,- missus” I says ter th’ ole lady. She looks
at me a bit hard, an’ I tell yer I felt a nasty one on
th’ solar plexus. But I took it like a little man,
an’ she never saw how it hurt. ‘ Is anyone with
yer?’ she asked. ‘No,’ I says, in a casual sorter
way, ‘ I ain’t married.’ Th’ ole lady, she laughed.
‘I didn’t mean that,’ she says. ‘Then what did
yer mean ? ’ I says, with a fierce sorter look. ‘ Oh,
nothin’,’ she says, ‘but yer look so young. Yer
don’t look more’n sixteen.’ ‘Go on,’ I says,
laughin’ ’sif it was ch’ best I ever heard. ‘ That’s
th’ worst o’ lookin’ a lot younger than yer are.
Sixteen,’ I says, suddenly growin’ sad, ‘I wished
I was. ’ ‘ An’ where’s yer luggage ? ’ she says., ‘ I
never carry luggage,’ I says. ‘ I’m travellin’ fer
me health.’
“T kidded meself I’d got the ole party ori toast,
b it I foun’ out aftir, she’d tumbled f rom the start.
Yer c m t beat the deffeit o women. \\ e.l. b.rneoy
I whips out inter the billiard-room an there s a
push o’ sports playin’. Sol Marks was standin at
the door an’ as soon as he spotted me, he says,
‘Hullo; you’re ole Winter’s son, am t jei .
near dropped. I never knoo Sol knoo me, but I
saw it was no use tellin’ a tale, so I owns up an
turns meself inside out for him. lhats aw
right,’ says Sol, ‘ I won’t put the game away. By
the way,’ he says, ‘ you’ve bin among horses a. bit.
Can yer ride ? ’ ‘ Can I ride ? I says why I
on’y get off a horse now an’ then to go ter bed.
“Well, Sol thought for a minute. Then he
says, ‘Well,’ he says, ‘there’s races on here this
afternoon. If yer like ter stand in with mean
foller me instructions, there might be a bit m it
for both o’ us.’ ‘Righto,’ I says, an without a
word of a lie there I was registered that afternoon
with the racin’ club as young Grogan, a Sydney
jockey. , , c
“ Sol went roun’ among th’ owners an got a tew
o’ them ter listen ter reason. I didn t feel a bit
proud when I come out in a pink silk jacket an
tartan cap. It was aw right I promise yer.
There was a fairish crowd at the races, an
after he’d buzzed roun’ a bit, Sol comes
up an’ says, ‘ Yer favorite for this, an
yer got ter go down. He s supposed ter
be a prime finisher, so yer got ter fall back in the
first mile.’ ‘Go on,’ I says, ‘ lose the race? i
thought I had ter win, an’ I jest put two quid on
him.’ ‘Never min’,’ says Sol, ‘ I’ll give yer them
back an’ two more when yer lose.’ This was jest
what 1 was after. Course I’d never backed him,
but I thought it was a good line ter keep Sol in
front. Yer never know, yer know. But Sol was
an alright describer. 1 kep’ the horse well back
on the far side, got him pocketed at the corner,
an’ got out jest in time ter make a run.
Blow me if I didn’t think he was goin’
ter win, after all. The crowd yelled like
hell, an’ Sol was scared to death that I’d
turned him down. He had a white face when he
came up after. ‘My Gawd,’ he says, ‘yer cut
that too close for my health. Another couple o
yards an’ I’d ha’ bin goin’ faster than th’ horse.’
I waves pie hand at him. ‘Donch’er think I
know how ter ride? ’ Isays. ‘ That’s judgment,’ I
says. He weighs out the four quid. ‘Well,’ he
says, ‘ don’t cut it so fine again, or yer’ll have me
droppin’ dead o’ heart disease.’ The owner o’ the
horse he’d backed him for a lot, an’ he gives me
ten bob for the mount, an’ shook hands with me.
‘Yer did well, me boy,’ he says, ‘ I never thought
he had that finish in him the way he went at the
“ There I was with four poun’ ten awready. I
was gettin’ on, I tell yer. Sol gives me the word
that we have ter win the nex’ race. The horse
has bin run stiff for months, an’ the on’y one to
be fright’ned of was a big bay. I saw the way
the bay could shift as we went out, so I edges up
ter the boy on him —little chubby-faced feller
about thirteen he was. ‘I say, sonny,’ I says,
‘ I’m gointer win this race, an’ don’t yer forget it.
Yer a nice-lookin’ little boy, an’ yer love yer
mother, an’ I wouldn’t like ter see anything
happen ter yer. But,’ I says, fierce as could
be, ‘if yer try ter beat me, I’ll break yer
bloomin’ neck sure’s yer born.’ The little
boy turned pale, an’ neirly toppled outer his
saddle, an’ soon after the start I was able to cut
close ter him so’s ter make him think I meant ter
murder him. That settled the little boy. I got
home with a foot ter spare because they didn’t
want the weight piled on in other races. But the
little boy was nowhere, an’ th’ stewards made him
st md down the rest o’ the meeting. I made ten
quid outer that eVent for I bit on meself.
“ Then come the on’y other race I could start
in, an’ Sol tells me I’ve got ter go dead again. I
starts thinking ter meself that I won’t always have
Sol with me, an’ it wouldn’t be a bad thing
if I considered me own self-respect a bit.
I says ter meself that it’s wrong ter ride stiff, an’
I'll never do it agin. So I slips roun’the ring
quietly an’ plumps the whole o’ me winnin’s,
excep’ two quid, on me mount for this race. It
was a dead cop, from what I c’d pick up, an’ I
reckoned on bein’ a millionaire, ’cause I’d got
sevens for most o’ me money. I makes for a good
persition, an’ half-way roun’ I was floggin’ acause
I’d kep’ back the couple o’ quid when I might ha’
gotanotherfourteen. Then they started ter quicken
for the post. I was on the inside, movin’ as
yer like, with a feller in a green jacket on me
right. He jest stayed level with me, till about
a hundred yards from home. Then I gives me
mount the spur an’ starts ter shift. But, blime
if the bloke in the green jacket didn’t shift
too. I slung in my spurs an’ flogged somethin’
cruel, but that feller drew on me an’, s’help me,
without a word of a lie, he shoved past me an’
pipped me on the post. My word, I tell yer, I
was all out. I thought me heart was broken,
when I trotted back ter th’ stand. There was Sol
waitin’. ‘ Blime,’ he says, ‘ but you’re an artistic
finisher an’ no error. You’ve took ten years off
me life ter day,’ he says. ‘For a moment I
thought ye’d turned dawg on me.’ I was just goin’
ter speak ter him when up comes the owner o’ th’
horse with his fightin’ face cleared for action.
‘ Yer young whelp,’ ’e says, ‘yer turned me down.
Yer ruined me,’ he says, ‘but I’ll break yer
damned neck for yer.’ An’ with that he yanks
me off the horse, an’ in two twos there lie was
floggin’ me hell for leather with me own whip. I
promise yer it was a fair cow. It seemed nex’
year before they got in between him and me an’
saved me life, but I got the marks on me still.
Then they hauls me up before the stewards, and—
I’m telling yer the truth—they rubbed me out for
12 months for suspicious practices. What d’yer
think o’ that. When I had done me best ter win
an’ lost ten o’ the best o’ me own good red gold, I
gets stood down for a year. It was the last race
o’ the day, and the worst o’ the lot was when I
come ter'look for Sol an’ get my cut, he’d taken
shirrocker.
“ I sneaked back ter the pub. an’ tried ter look
calm an’ dignified, but who do yer think was in
the bar parlor when I strolls by an’ orders a long
whisky ? There was the copper I’d passed onthe
road talkin’ earnestly with me mother. That
broke me up. I wouldn’t ha’ minded if the ole
man had bin there, but there was the ole lady
cryin’ fit ter break her heart. Without a word of
a lie, it fair broke me up an’ I went back home
with her that night an’ ate mud. It wasn’t the
copper as put me away. It was the land-
lady o’ the pub. She’d dropped ter me in
one an’ wired down ter town. No, no more
jockeyin’ fer me. It’s a fine adventurous life, but
I’m lettin’ ’em have it. Th’ ole man got me inter
an office after that, an’ I’m goin’ strong. I’m
goin’ ter be an agent. There’s more in that in the
long run Yer just stand between th’ feller that
wants somethin’ an’ th’ feller that wants to sell
him somethin’, an’ yer let ’em have what s left
after yer got yer. whack. So long, chaps. I’ve
got an appointment with a bit o’ skirt at eight,
an’ this new suit oughter about paralyse her.”
C.N.


If you are run down, losing strength, are greatly
debilitated, and suffer from the long, hot summer,
there is one medicine that will quickly cure you. It is
AYER’S s arsaparilla
Bead this interesting testimonial of a lady residing at East Brisbane:
mv
“The past season I had a severe at-
tack of dengue fever, which left me
feeling very weak and languid, with
little appetite and no energy; but I
am pleased to say Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cured me.
“As a blood purifier and tonic for
those who are affected by the debili-
tating heat of the Queensland summer,
it is unequaled, and I :.m pleased to
Tecommend it to those who need a reli-
able remedy.”
If yon are sick, you cer-
tainly should give Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla a thorough trial. It
cannot fail to help you, for it purifies the blood first of all.
Then your nerves become steady and strong, and the hot
weather of summer does not affect you. Remember, it is
a wonderful medicine for the children, too, when they are
thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your confidence in
it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
Make sure that you get 41 AYER’S V 9 Sarsaparilla
not some other kind, put up to imitate it, and
which will do you no good.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., lioweU, Mass., U. S. A.
Aver’s P'lls cure dyspepsia; strengthen the stomach.
Nehry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne •
ffophm No. 1013.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
ar the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets an;
Dinner Parties
marquees, tents and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sires Supplied.
THE LONDON TREATMENT
FOE TIIK
Inebriety# flruy Addiction
interested in the work of
Victims of DRINK or
should'be familiar with the
t the London Institute.
Particulars sent Post Free on appli-
catioa. Address—
H. W. BUTTREY,
lnstitut e, Box 121, Masterton,
New Zealand.
EVERYONE
)R UG HABIT
treatment used ai
A SOBER MAN
IS HIS OWN MASTER,
WHY BE A SLAVE TO DRINK?
-»stou’s Vegetable Cure for Alco-
a u n l n ever fails. A few doses produce
intnv'^ er^ul . c l mn g e - The craving for all
cotu B IC i an j S ls destroyed, the nerves be-
re f!' ? tea dy, the appetite for food returns,
eshing sleep ensues.
JT may be given secretly
and Pp!® s are ««ecte.t Quickly. Easily, Safely
DRUNKENNESS is a Dig-
’ 1 a Habit, and can be cured.
kei?aI H t 5 R f ’ SAVE Y °UR SONS,
or not ‘nem from bondage whether they will
tquot ?t Ure ta ke§ away all desire for
My Bonir «?rJ* ,e Parent's knowledge.
TL reclaimed,” No. 5, Posted FREE,
“dress all Communications to the
Or LANCSTON institute
J COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Four'^ th l and Vi «or Restored
our Weeks by the use of
in
'' ovlr o'o® R “ n,efor WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Dr. b; ot i oe ' , !:, ury "' ith '"'paralleled
Eao„l S throughout the world.
t »ih te r«d”nf^i , u-H fe i reBtDreB Manf >ood to the
ths important" ' a ted constitutions, rejuvenating-
-ify; 2 ®->or four nnovffv? er l^ s of fc^e huisian frame.
®VtoMu am Phlets < W B ntlt A eS 111 one for 3Ss : freight Is. &
e u% Agents-Perry & Go., 47 Oilmen
and’/; Ul ?, inB '.4 Co -> 13 O’Connell St.,
t Newoastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
, Nicsne Sent Free
' » Ji"\ ! " a 'l in plain t |-> >US v" ds <J '"' ed Annuallv. Rcmad-
%* S} o Unfce To-day.
e ''*«£™T,^f"yS™y? E " Cr -
DR. J. CGLLIS BROWNE'S
rmORODYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Eemedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. coins BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, arid its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Ft ee, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
Try Our ELECTRIC BELT, with
SUSPENSORY Attachment.
i
y
Dept.
Price TWO GUINEAS.
IT Animates the sluggish
circulation, Stimulates
the Brain to Activity.
and fills the Ixxly with
Life, Ambition, and En-
durance. It furnishes tlie
Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debilitt. You rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energy and Vigor. Cata-
logue Post Free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AW INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving- instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment With internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
c 1 ° ' ' ost I* 0 ! 1 ® before reading this book.
Potlyin* i \’L'.,ni l ’! J T !n!9 ATION -. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC I INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SIITmI
The New Patent
■ SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
■and Hkad Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
t to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
w,or n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins Bt. Melbourne.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
3 e £m. H l A s M 'S
DOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Tadach
Giddiness, lulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chiiis, Flush
mgs of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Lreath, Cos ivenoss. Blotches on the Skin, Dis
Sleep. and /all Nervous and Trembdmr Sensations, &c. THU FIRST DOSI
M ILL GlVji RELIEF TIN TWENTY MINH'fES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer i
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and cley will he acknowledged to be “ WORTH B
GOI¥HA A BOS.” •
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, w cuicldy restore females to complete health. The l
promptly lemove any obstruction or irregularity of tae system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening th<
Muscular System : re-l oring the long-lost Complexion : bringing hack the keen ed e of appetite, anc
arousing with (he .Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Eneugy of the human frame. Thes<
are ‘‘facts’ admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to th<
Nervous and Debilitated is that Ben-ham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme i,>
he vorid. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, Lancashire, EH BLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is l£d, and. 2s 9d. each.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS (the best and most characteristic Australian books) are sold by booksellers throughout
Australasia, or will be forwarded by post (with postage added) from Thk Bulletin Office, 214 George-street,
Sydney, in return for P. 0.0., postal note, or stamps of Australia or Maoriland. Editions de luxe of ON THE
HOP (a splendid collection of pictures), and PHIL MAY IN AUSTRALIA (“his best work,” says The Atliencevm),
21s. each ; boxed and posted, 235. (A cheaper abridged edition of the latter only, 2s. 6d. ; posted 35.) FAIR GIRLS
AND GRAY HORSES (cloth, with portrait) and HEARTS OF GOLD (cloth; illus.), verses by Will Ogilvie ; 4s. 6d. each ;
posted ss.——AT DAWN AND DUSK (cloth, with portrait), verses by V. J. Daley, 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. A SOUTHERN
GARLAND (cloth, with portraits), verses by R. Quinn, J. Hebblethwaite, L. Mack, H. Church, B. O’Dowd, 4s. 6d.;
posted ss. THE BULLETIN RECITER (cloth, illus.),-the best- Australian recitation-book, 4s. 6d. ; posted ss.
MAORILAND (cloth, with portrait), verses by A. H, Adams; 4s. 6d. ; posted Ss.—HITS,
SKITS, AND JINGLES, verses by VV. T. Goodge, cloth 3s. 6d. (posted 3s. 9d.), paper 2s. 6d. (posted 2s. 9d.).
—-THE RED PAGAN, by A. G. Stephens, cloth 6s. (posted 6s. 3d.), paper 3s. 6d. (posted 3s. 9d.).
ON OUR SELECTION and OUR NEW SELECTION, by “Steele Rudd” (bestbooks of Australian humour, 25,000 sold),
cloth, illus., 6s. each ; posted, 6s. 6d, THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK (best Australian stories), cloth 4s. 6d. ; posted,
ss. SUCH IS LIFE, a real Australian yarn, by “ Tom Collins,” cloth 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. CASTRO’S LAST SACRA-
MENT and Other Stories by A. Dorrington, cloth 2s. 6d. ; posted 3s. BUSHMAN AND BUCCANEER (H. Morant’s
life and verses), Is. ; posted Is. 3d.—-A PCI CY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH, by J. Edmond, 6d. ; posted Bd.
THE LAST OF SIX, stories by E. Favenc, Oil. ; posted Bd. THE BULLETIN POST-CARDS (three new series in
colours). Series lA, PHIL MAY. Series lIA, “ HOP.” Series IV, BACKBLOCKS. Each series makes a packet of
Twelve assorted cards. Price, Is. per packet; posted Is, Id. The Bulletin Newspaper Company Ltd., 214 George
Street, Sydney, Australia.
I
I
r Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE*
TORPID LIVER.
| FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
ITTLE
IVER
PI ILLS.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
*man phi. small Dose. Small Price*
Carter's
BUSHMAN
and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id.
Pott Free.
DR. MARTIN,
M.D., M. 8., 0.M., L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S., L.F.P.S.C., &c.
151 Elizabeth St.,
S3TID 3NT 2ES'ST.
, The old-established, Reliable Phy-
sician and Surgeon n>av be consulted nn
All Diseases of
Men and Women
FREE.
Age and Experience Important—Avoid Unskilful Pretenders—Both Sexes Consult
Confidently—No Experiments. If you are afflicted and Wish to Recover your Lost
Health, Strength and Vitality SEND AT ONCE FOR 3
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN, & THEIR HOME CURE.”
May be had from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6c!., or if
you apply to me now a - copy will be POSTED FREE for
3s. This magnificent, medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and
193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Coiored Plate.
The mbst interesting, up-to-date and reliable medical
Men and Women. It is entirely different to those books Sf g
fol ' hUI -" anitV ' affliCted lonV-standin P g chronic
nerious, exhausting or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
0f i, t t i fu grr > nd work > containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
giving a \ei> fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
CONSULT THE AUTHOR. Confidential. CONSULT THE AUTHOR
FREE


Reliable—**-
Garden Hose.
SAMPLES
AND
PRICES
FREE.
Reliable, because it is well
made, and made to last.
Every foot of Hose we sell
increases our reputation as
makers & sellers of tlie best.
Perdriau Slub&er Co.!£
270 George Si, Sydney-
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limitei
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES
R m// (
SIMPSON BROS
_ :
■I
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6c3.
Posted 8d
TO YOU
/
<r
jasaa
'T'O introduce, our Catalogue into as. many homes as
* possible, we have decided ,to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons of either sex who send in the
correct solution Of the following puzzle :
OXR WXXCXXS AXE TXE BXXT.
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our Soi. 1 Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the watch! We in ike this condition because
we want our Catalogue to get into the hands of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toys, hut Solid
Silver,' and Fully,Guaranteed. Early application is neoes-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
ARTHUR RRYME & CO.,
A.R PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
PLUM’
> >v
THE
‘PLUM’
GENTLEMEN, -This razor is superior to -any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow
like'a bell, and never requires grinding'. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years,
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
TrUE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LICHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cakfe.
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather
Price Sing-le Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case,
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part of tub World.
Be-Please add &d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolo:
SOLE AGENTSs CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St.,
ground,
xaot
can
INCERSOLL ROCK DRILL
Sergeant “Auxiliary Valve” Drill
lngersoll” Drill
“Arc Valve” Tappet Drill
“ Little Jap” Drill “ Eclipse ” Drill
SfB®S
60 CLARENCE
: ,;v
NOTICE
To anffererefrom Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Thm Old Rmllmbla English Remedy
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinouksthk & Tromaw, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Trumans NURSERY LOTION,
, By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
* SOLD in two sizks, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
* N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
, LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
! Prepared by Poinodkstrb A Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all *
} Chemists in the Australian Colonies. -
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDKTBY.
(llltllllliHllll
m
SI
& Go.
■v
RANGES
STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St*, Sydney.
142 Randle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
3UOS
■■■—
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
rtSTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
ALL. KYB TROUBLES.
SNa E.VEIR FAIL.S.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES.”
A NOVEL PRES
AN receipt of P. 0.0,
v forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
orM.O. fors/«wew'l
addressinAustraiio'.,
9ct. COID-F1 i-l-E D
BROOCHES, with Wl'
Name or Three Initials, Kell, Anchor
Pendant, guaranteed the ® au '%% y 'V Twisted Wire,
without pendant, 3/6. JL." 150 T ‘ n . ' tr „t e d Catalogues
3 6: without Pendant, r. SIMS,Cod
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed t^K
Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne,
TEN DAYS FREE M'S
red on every cycle *•<?
iey in full ref unde gjgjjejt g««*
not perfectly _ «
fcles, warranted xyfi*' - fto
Money
if not
S^w 528
?s&SA“^f!Ss
,o any port >u /e g
Onn Second-Hand^
200 aU roakeß ' £1 to*?’
«nnri ftS 116 W, . _». hnlf ftiCtOty
Mod a* new, t £$
Great factory clearance sa a ordcrs
IBM fl CYCLE »e. Actlve« ce ;„ r
, T nrofits easilyirade- _., e _gpostage
EAR
"“suTdritaJe*M, e W®»2’ B 39
LIVERPOOL. LONDON
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills.
««I <j o oot hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”—Da. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of Londo
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother O f a
Now that Hot Weather
has set in, BEWARE of
Drinking - . -
UNFILTERED
WATER.
THE .. ..
lost Reliable Filter
IS THE WELL-KNOWN
Manufactured in Australia and of Many Designs.
Has withstood SEVEREST BACTERIOLOGICAL TEST&
If jou cannot get it at your Store, write to • '
N. GUTH RIDGE, Ltd.
BOND STREET, SYDNEY, _
COLLINS STREET, MELBODRN^
