

‘GAELIC” WHISKY
■
E&. G-. WATK.IMS «&£ GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES. BUILDERS asd GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
S
Grand Prix, Paris, 1900,
HOejLRT.
— m, —
Radleys Orient fiotei.
-
** PIONEER
LEATHER
BELT BMC
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Lndowicl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
SAWING & WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
Planing and Moulding Machines, Genera! Wood-workers, Deal and Flitch Frames,
Log Frames, Band Mills, Circular Saw Mills, Vertical Boring Machines, Ac., Ac.
For Illustrated Lists and
full particulars apply to - •
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent st., SYDNEY
THE BULLETIN BOOKS (the best and most characteristic Australian books) are sold by booksellers throughout
Australasia, or will be forwarded by post (with postage added) from The Bulletin Office, 214 George-street,
Sydney, in return for P. 0.0., postal note, or stamps of Australia or Maoriland. Editions de luxe of ON THE
HOP (a splendid collection of pictures), and PHIL MAY IN AUSTRALIA (“his best work,” says The Athenaeum),
21s. each ; boxed and posted, 235. (A cheaper abridged edition of the latter only, 2s. 6d. ; posted 35.)— — FAIR GIRLS
AND CRAY HORSES (cloth, with portrait) and HEARTS OF COLD (cloth, illus.), verses by Will Ogilvie ; 4s. od. each ;
posted ss. AT DAWN AND DUSK (cloth, with portrait), verses by V. J. Daley, 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. A SOUTHERN
GARLAND (cloth, with portraits), verses by R. Quinn, J. Hebblethwaite, L. Mack, H. Church, B. O’Dowd, 4s. 6d.;
posted ss. THE BULLETIN RECITER (cloth, illus.), the best Australian recitation-book, 4s. 6d. ; posted ss.
MAORILAND (cloth, with portrait), verses by A. H. Adams; 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. HITS,
SKITS, AND JINGLES, verses by W. T. Goodge, cloth 3s. 6d. (posted 3s. 9d.), paper 2s. 6d. (posted 2s. 9d.).
-THE RED PAGAN, by A. G. Stephens, cloth 6s. (posted 6s. 3d.), paper 3s. 6d. (posted 3s. 9cL).
ON OUR SELECTION and OUR NEW SELECTION, by “ Steele Rudd ” (best books of Australian humour, 25,000 sold),
cloth, illus., 6s. each ; posted, 6s. 6d. THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK (best Australian stories), cloth 4s. 6d. ; posted
6s. SUCH 18 LIFE, a real Australian yarn, by “ Tom Collins," cloth 4s. 6d. ; posted 6s. CASTRO’S LAST SACRA-
MENT and Other Stories by A. Dorrington, cloth 2s. 6d. ; posted 3s. BUSHMAN AND BUCCANEER (H. Morant’s
life and versos), Is.; posted Is. 3d. A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH, by J. Edmond, 6d. ; posted Bd,
THE LABT OF BIX, stories by E. Favenq, 6d.; posted Bd.~—THE BULLETIN POST'CARDB (three new series in
colours). Series lA, PHIL MAY. Series lIA, “ HOP." Series IV, BACKBLOOKS. Each series makes a packet of
Twelve assorted cards. Price, la. per packet; posted Is. Id. The Bulletin Newspaper Company Ltd., 214 George
Street, Sydney, Australia.
s
HaricnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO.OFN.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch i
14 Spring: St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society) - TP. A. GIBB , Manager.
Active Asrents and Canvassers Wanted. “WS
Wed \9frUoAs # UjtioKu^
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
1/3
u
ff
I
_A
1/9 DAILY
TREAT.'
k
is tfe Queen of dl Cocoas
*■■■■ ;:.:- ,^; vv V FOI^
: Aroma,Strength £'Purit>:
§
BREWERS, WINE A SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
and CORDIALS.
nAVin STORER & SDNS’
Baemasasß Traps Maes
in Throe Colon—
BLACK, RED, & BLUE.
THE r*JEJ2IFHOa? BHEIEP-ILIjaLIIKER.,
Is the ONLY Absoectelt
SAFE Wool-Marking
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by All Merchants and Storekeepers.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever Issued In Australia.
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced.
A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS
HELIDON SPA —“Stands pre-eminent as a Table Water.”
The Bulletin
Vol. 26. —No. 1327.]
[Thursday, July 20, 1905.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


MORE BOOKS
AT
GEO. ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD.,
71 CASTLEREAGSH STREET.
SYDNEY.
Stevenson, Essays on Travel, buckram, Cs, post 6d
Joubert, Fall of Ts&rdom, 6s, post 6d
Holdich, India, “ Regions of the World Series," 9s, p. 9d
Russell, North America, “Regions of the World Series,”
9s, post 9d
Dean Hole, Then and Now, 7s 6d, post 8d
Fairbanks, The Western Wonderland Half Hours in the
Western United States, ss, post 6d
Davison, Study of Recent Earthquakes, " Contem. Science
Series,” ss, post 6d
Watson, Sunshine and Sentiment in Portugal, illus.. 16a.
post 9d
Brassey, Work and Wages, Part 1, Foreign Competition,
_ by S. J. Chapman, 9s, post 9d
Quinton Hogg, a Biography, ny Ethel M. Hogg, 15s, p. fid
Lang, A., John Knox and the Reformation, illds., 12s 6d,
post !!d
Hornadav, The American Natural History, illus. from orig.
drawings, photographs, charts and maps, 2,55, p. 2s 9d
Spencer, Education, New Edition 3s, post 4d
I ITERARY MAN wants engagement as Editor
of Country Paper : N. Queensland preferred. Ex-
cellent references. Address : Omega, this office.
Steele Magazine,
ALL AUSTRALIAN.
Table of Contents, June, 1905.
Dad in Politics — Steele Rudd
Nebuchadnezzar’s Will — C. P. Curlewit
The Pride of Coining Back —Opal
A Search for the Bunyip— PerdvalC. CcU
Droving— Gonn Addrovin
The Widow’s Way— Asphodel
Two Johns Out Walking— Ashton. Murphy
How Lou Angell Got Even With Bob Sinclair—Sydney
Partridge ,
Bertie and Bertie’s Boss— Norman Macpherson
Peg—./. A. Deck
Life’s Pawn — Genung
Pearling in the Nor’ West— Barroque
Stripes— Phil Agnevi
Shunted — Ben- Lomond
The Sisters — Alice Grant Rosman
A Burst-up Industry— Grant Ileroey
Dengue Rash — M.E.L.
A Wasted Cartridge --if. Forrest
The Dramatic Possibilities—Hamer
Types of Australian Scenery—/ oseph Ruskin
The Country Maid —Hamer
An Interview with the Right Hon. G. H. Reid — Steele Rudd
Down South — M.E.F.
A Western Bartnaid — Joseph Ruskin
Love Light— Thistle Anderson
Digger’s Love Yarn — Polstan
I Remember — M. Forrest
Euchred — D. G. Macdougal
Literal.'A and Art Notes and Persons Coura, E. V.
Palmer, etc., etc.
Reg is ft red,
FOR INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.B. ALLAFFECTIONS OF
THE THROAT*, LUNGS, & PR^NSUMPTION.
AN lOEM.REMEDY.
■ Co/ilailt no (otaint
dri/j
SOLO BY A LtfCHEMISTS, //<?.
THE GREAT
A NTISEPTIC
REMEDY.
FOR COUGHS . COLDS , SORE THROAT, LOSS OF VOICE,
Sold in Tins,
Queensland.
THE RED PAGE.
TERSE AND WORSE
HARRY GRAHAM, who publishes in
Verse and Worse a new collection of gay
little rhymes (Lond., Arnold; 3a. C>d.
net) may be better remembered as “ Gol.
D. Streamer” of the lighter American magas.
His analogue in this book is the Bab balladist, and
a few illus. in Gilbert’s manner would have set off
his quips agreeably. He does not pretend to more
than the tribute of a passing smile; and this he
earns. His first section of “The Baby’s Baedeker”
considers countries skittishly. Here is Trance,
for example:
FRANCE.
The natives here remark, “ Mon Dieu ! ”
“ Que voulez-vovz f " “ Comment ca va ! "
“ Sapristi t Par exemple t Un peu ! "
“ Tiens done ! Metis qu ’est-ce que c 'est que ca ? ”
They shave one portion of their dogs.
And live exclusively on frogs.
They get excited very quick,
And crowds will gather before long
If you should stand and wave your stick
And shout, “ A has le Presidong ! "
Still more amusing would it be
To say, “ Conspuez la Patrie t ’’
The French are so polite, you know,
They take their hats off very well,
And, should they tread upon your toe,
Remark, “ Pardon, Mademoiselle ! ”
And you would gladly bear the pain
To see them make that bow again.
Their ladies, too, have got a way
' Which even curates can’t resist ;
’T would make an alderman feel gay,
Or soothe a yellow journalist;
And then the things they say are so
Extremely — well, in fact —you knoiv !
Moral:
The closest scrutiny can find
No morals here of any kind.
J*'
For the Briton :
Some call his manners wanting, or
His sense of humour poor, and yet
Whatever he is striving for
He as a rule, contrives to get ;
His methods may be much to blame,
But he arrives there just the same.
Moral:
If you can get your wish, you bet it
Does n’t much matter how you get it !
The TJ.S.A. :
(0 Liberty, how free we make !
Freedom, what liberties we take !)
The Spaniard:
His blood, of blue cerulean hue,
Runs in his veins like liquid fire,
And he can be most rude if you
Should rob him of his heart’s desire ;
“ Caramba 1” he exclaims, and whack !
His dagger perforates your back 1
The “moral” of Germany “may touch a
heart” :
A glass of lager underneath the bough,
A long “ churchwarden ” and an ample “frau ”
Beside me sitting in a Biergarten,
Ach ! Biergarten ivere paradise enow !
The “moral” of Turkey adds the force of
parody :
Wives of great men oft remind vs
We should make our wives sublime,
But the years advancing find us
Vainly working over-time.
We could minimise our work
By the methods of the Turk.
Alas!
Graham flashes rarely, but he sparkles. In
Jerome’s phrase, he is “a change from The Hun-
dred Best Books.”
When wilful little Willis Black
Threw all the tea-things at his mother,
She murmured, as she hurled them back,
“ One good tea-wn deserves another ! ”
It is a pity to grow too wise to enjoy such small
literary follies, and Graham can maintain that
level perpetually. Occasionally he is wittier:
Share the experience I have had,
Consider all I’ve knmvn and seen
And Don’t be Good, and Don’t be Bad,
But cultivate a Golden Mean.
What makes Existence really nict
Is Virtue—with a dash of Vice.
Or:
Enough is Very Good, may be ; •
Too Much is Good Enough for Me 1
The parodies are a neat set, and with their
reflected virtue may keep a permanent place.
Lo, Browning for a motor-maniac :
It was chickens, chickens, all the way,
With children crossing the road like mad ;
Police disgv. ised in the hedgerows lay,
Stop-watches and large white flags they had,
At nine & clock this very day.
Here one can pass a lively hour; and the Henley
is to be treasured :
A LONDON INVOLUNTARY.
(After W. E. Henley.)
Spizzicato non poco sbirtsando.
Old Palace Yard!
Hark how their breath draivs lank and hard,
The - low, stern police I
Breaking the desultory midnight peace
With plangent call, to cry
11 Division ” ! This their first especial charge.
And now, low, luminous, and,large,
The slumbrous member hurries by.
Let us take cab, Dear Heart, take cab and go
From out the lith of this loud ivorld (I know
The meaning of the ivord). Come, let us hie
To where the lamp-posts ouch the troubled sky, —
(And if there is one thing for which T vouch
It is my knowledge of the verb to ouch).
So, as we steal
Hameicard together, we shall feel
The buxom breeze, —
(Observe the epithet; an apt one, if you. please).
Down through the sober pawn street,
Which., purged and sweet ,
Gleams in the ambient deluge of the water-cart,
Bemused and blurred and pinkly lustrous, where
The blandest lion in Trafalgar Square
Seems but a part
Of the great continent of light, —
An attribute of the embittered night, —
How new, how naked, and how clean !
Couchant, slow, shimmering, superb !
Constant to one environment, not even seen
Pottering aimlessly along the kerb.
Lo l
On the pavement, one of those
Grim men who go down to the sea in ships,
Blaspheming, reeling in a foul ellipse,
Home to some tangled alley-bedside goes,—
Oozing and flushed, sharing his elemental mirth
\\ ith all the jocund undissembling earth ;
Drooping his shameless nose,
No-r hitching up his drifting, shifting clothes.
And here is Piccadilly ! Loudly dense, (
Intractable, voluminous, immense 1
(Dear, dear my heart’s desire, can I be talking sense 1)
N.S.W. EDUCATIONAL LITERATURE
WE shall try to avoid strong language in
this article; but it will be difficult.
For there is question of the most mad-
dening outrages of all, outrages upon
children, committed by Education Minister
O’Conor, that supreme official ass who there
we are already !
Of course, this is nonsense. Minister O’Conor
would n’t hurt a child. One supposes that he is
pegging away at his educational business, doing
no more harm than he can help and as much good
as he can compass. Nevertheless this is sense.
Minister O’Conor is the head and front of his
Department. If it succeeds he will take praise :
where it fails he must take blame. He is the
Pierpont Morgan of N.S.W. educational finance,
the captain of scholastic industry on whose energy
and acumen the business depends. We shall
swear at him conscientiously. He is the doit who
wrote the stupid article on Northern Queensland
in his approved Fourth Reader. He is the un-
grammatical duffer who, in the same Reader
(p. 101), tells of a time
When the tattered folds of this crimson rag
Was dearer than life or love.
True, R. F. Irvine, M.A., N.S.W. public service
examiner and editor of the book, passed the blun-
ders. But Minister O’Conor is responsible. What
he endorses, he endorses.
Remember that to a nine-year-old urchin “The
Fourth Reader’’ is gospel whose every word is
conned. The voice of the teacher is as the voice
of a god. In a school reader there should be no
more chance of error or misprint than there is in a
religionist’s Bible. Yet a dialogue like this is
reported to us :
Worried Teacher (to class) : In what does a verb agree
with its noun ?
Smart Irritating Boy : A verb agrees with its noun
in person.
W. T. : WrOng. Next?
Next : A verb agrees with its noun in number and per-
son.
5.1.8. ( promptly) : Please, sir, it doesn't agree in num-
ber. In our Header it says, “ The folds of this crimson
flag iva,s dearer.” Lower down it says “ For a people rot
in the lap of ease.” You said a was only used for singular
nouns, and rot is a plural verb.
W.T. (floundering vainly in endeavours to explain, and
sotto voce): D the Header 1
And the sin is clearly on the soul of Minister
O’Conor.
je
When “ The Australian School ” Readers I, 11,
111 appeared, they were fully reviewed here,
justly praised, and in some things blamed. The
praise was accepted : of the blame no notice was
taken. Readers IV and V, issued later, missed
notice. We have just looked through Reader IV.
In the main it is satisfactory : the editor has
done his hard task well, on safe and prudent lines.
The book is not inspired, it is not as good as it
ought to be, as it could be ; but it is good enough
till Minister O’Conor can make a better. The
worst defect is in the illustrations, which are too
few and sometimes unworthy. “The Haunt of
the Lyre Bird'” (153) should have a reference to
locality. In the anecdote of Herschel cooking
meat in the sun (28) the seasonal circumstances
should be stated. Without a qualification, chil-
dren are apt to take the statement generally.
The article “In Northern Queensland” blun-
ders in the same way, for lack of reservations. It
is the only really bad article in the book : for once
the cautious editor has gone beyond his know-
ledge or his authorities. It is bad because it is
inadequate: it purports to picture Northern
Queensland, and fails. It is worse because it is mis-
leading : the ignorant compiler (i.e.. Minister
O’Conor) has taken statements which are or were
true of a particular place at a particular time, and
applied them generally to North Queensland, for
all time ; and things of no importance are given
disproportionate significance. Suppose you read
in a school-book article on New South Wales these
statements :
The rivers and harbours are haunted by ferocious
sharks, which lie in wait for dogs and incautious bathers.
They are powerful enough to bite a man’s leg off. Fortu-
nately the spread of settlement is leading to the gradual
extermination of these monsters.
That is ..practically what Minister O’Conor says,
substituting N.Q. for N.S.W. and alligators for
sharks. It’s ludicrous. Alligators or crocodiles
are, or were, plentiful in the Barron River,
just as sharks are or were plentiful in Sydney
harbour; but crocodiles don’t come within the
range of ordinary knowledge at Cairns any more
than sharks come within the range of ordinary
knowledge at Sydney. The references to “ loath-
some puddles ” and “ siroccos ” are just as stupid :
the article is ignorant and stupid throughout.
The picture of a horse fleeing before a “sirocco”
makes no amends by being comical.
d*
What surprises one is to find Under-Secretary
Board defending the article. And we had hopes
of U.S. Board, Based chiefly on the well-opened
eye of his portrait in Sydney Telegraph. But
Minister O’Conor is the man responsible. W*
hurl his own professional jargon at him. Ignoran-
tia neminem excusat! Qui facit per a/ium faoit
per se !
THE IRISH CHARACTER
F people of Ireland live in the past. The
fl present means little for them, and the
JL future less.
As a people, they have the strangest and
most paradoxical national character in the world.
They are at once high-spirited and full of gloom.
They are warm-hearted and at the same time full
of indifference and reserve. They are conserva-
tive and clannish to the last degree, and still they
are polite and friendly to the stranger. They are
neither genial, nor have they any real sense of
humour, but they are quick and witty and droll.
Drollery is really in its essence a mordant, biting
thing—a half-sister to wit. It has nothing to do
with the sense of ludicrous comparison upon which
true humour is founded.
To the casual eye it might appear that the Insn
were gay. But they are not gay at all. Beneath
the expression of what appears to be gaiety is
always a sadness. In fact, they are the most
melancholy people in the world.
They are a people with most charming manners.
They have that sense of the rights of others which
is the foundation of manners....
J*
But for all that they are the most awkward
people in the world to get along with. You never
know when you have them. It is impossible to
know when or at what they will take offence.
Their lack of real humour makes them fly up at
what other people would pay no attention to.
They have hardly any control over themselves.
You get on best with them when you adopt
towards them an attitude that is conventionally
courteous and correct. You will then be apt to
feel that they are among the nicest people in the
world. And your feeling will be right. So long
as you don’t do or say anything that jars upon
them things will go beautifully smooth.
But you must take no liberties with them, nor
must you, the stranger, make jokes that appear in
the faintest way to work out at their expense. If
you do, you will find them up in arms at once.
Irish people have neither a sense of jokes nor a
sense of clowning. They are a refined people
who take life seriously.
Neither must you argue on things that touch
them deepi.y. It will be well if you let politics
and religion go by the board. For in these
matters the Irish, as a nation, are the most in-
tolerant people in the world. Politics and reli-
gion are to them as the breath of life itself. They
cannot argue about them coolly of reasonably. If
you do not think with them, you are one who is
against them. They glare at you as an enemy...
The Irish are wonderful boasters. The only
good things in the world are Irish ; the only great
administrators in the world are Irish ; the greatest
soldiers are Irish ; the cleverest people in an all-
round, top-and-bottom, outside-and-in sense are
Irish. Ireland and the Irish people are the finest
things that ever happened.
They are intensely local in the race sense. Th ey
won t allow you to be an Irishman if you happen
to be born iii England of Irish parents. You are
then the most English type of Englishman, or, to
put it in another and an Irish kind of way -the
worst type of worst. You may be a Home Ruler
of the deepest dye ; you may cherish and express
the opinion that not half enough landlords were
shot. But it matters not. You are an outsider.
You were not born and reared in Ireland. . . .
They are a strongly religious people. They have
a far more real sense of religion than have any
people even in the south of Europe. They are
strangely affected by the power of ritual and cere-
mony.
A brave people in a military sense, and still a
people who willingly put their necks into yokes,
providing these yokes are of their own making.
They have, curiously enough, a sense of liberty as
it affects individuals, but they have no sense of
liberty as it affects people collectively in masses.
They would be more likely to fight for a falling,
rotten system of authority than they would be to
fight on the side of a revolt against it. Their his-
tory proves to the hilt this statement.
Thev are conservative to the last degree, and
had they been handled with the least intelligence,
or allowed to- handle themselves, they would be
the most loyal subjects of the British Crown.
Loyalty and conservatism are synonymous terms.
They love to possess authority, and though on
the surface it hardly appears to be so, they are
amenable to discipline. In this they contrast
strongly with English people, who, among all the
peoples in the world, are really the least amenable
to discipline. The reason things work so smoothly
in England is because the English people have
more their own way than any other people in the
world.
One is sorry for the people of Ireland. They
have had to put up with a great deal, but they
are an extremely awkward people to deal with.
I think they t'hemselves must own to that.
Their memories are too long, and they live too
much in the past. The past is a poetical place
enough, but the trouble with it is that it has gone
beyond recall. And there comes a time when
people must bury wrongs. Were wrongs never
buried the people of these islands would still be
living in a state of cannibalism. The people of
Ireland must follow the laws of progress and bury
the past.
But someone speaks up and asks me, What
about the people of the north of Ireland ?
Ah, my friend, spare me. The people of the
north of Ireland are not Irish.—Baht Kennedy in
The Daily Mail.
— L 4, ——
A collective edn. of Swinburne’s dramatic work
is announced, uniform with the collective poems.
Probably the prose will follow.
Printed that Maxim Gorky is not poor, by
means, but is a shrewd business man. “He is
head of a publishing company in St. Petersburg,
and it is estimated that he has made 25,000/. out
of the business.”
J. A. Thomson, M.L. Rhodes scholar, gives
The Otago Witness his impressions of Oxford. He
says the Englishmen’s reception is kindly, and
one’s personal peculiarities are readily excused as
being due to “colonial education,” while any good
-.mints in a man are valued. The breakfasts in-
trigue us. First, a sole apiece; second, a large
dish of bacon and eggs with toast and preserves
unlimited ; after that tobacco. Then lectures 11
to 1, lunch at 1, exercise 2 to 4.30, tea 4.30 to 5,
study (perhaps) 5 to 7, dinner 7 to 7.30; a miscel-
laneous evening follows. “ Where does work
come in? A good day is two hours of lectures
and four hours of reading. Some men get in six
or more hours reading, but they miss the distinctive
features of Oxford life.”
L. WHiams, defying Ruskin’s “aggravating dog-
matism ' in The Studio, urges that
A circular line—a rolling cloud, a wave, a wheel—is
Nature's synonym for motion. It is the womb or bosom
of the sail that urges the vessel onward ; the flattened
sail that stops to seek a mirror in the listless sea.... The
straight line and the curve, each in its own appointed
place, is paramount in beauty. Look at Millet’s Sower—
the wheel-like revolution of the legs and body, the
right arm whirling round upon its ageless task. The
furrows, too, are slightly curved upon the swelling matrix
of the soil. Perfect beauty, perfect unrepose. Look at
the Angelus —straight lines innumerable. Perfect inac-
tion, perfect beauty. Even the furrows are at rest.
T,il writes :
i/oe h.inself answered the point with regard to “The
Raven.” In a letter to “a favourite correspondent
(quoted in Ingram’s Life) he wrote : _ _
“ What you say about the blundering criticism of the
Hartford Review man ’ just. For the purposes of
"■oetry it i= ■mite sufficient mat a thing.is possible, or at
,east thn: ;. j improbability be not offensively glaring. It
is trc i uit in several ways, as you say, the lamp might
have thrown the bird’s shadow on the floor. My concep-
tion was that of the bracket candelabrum affixed against
the wall, high up above the door and bust, as is often
seen in the English palaces, and even in some of the
better houses of New York. ’
This view is followed by Tenniel in the beautifully-en-
graved woodcuts of Sampson Low’s edition of Poe’s poems
(Lond., 1858). He also puts a reading-lamp on the stu-
dent’s table. Three of Tenniel’s “ Raven ” illustrations
are far superior to anything of his I have been able to dis-
cover among the wonderful wood-engravings of the late
’fifties and the ’sixties ; but in the fourth he (or the en-
graver, J. Cooper) comes to grief on the eyelids of the sera-
phim whose footfalls tinkled on the tufted floor. If P.T.F.
would like to know how footfalls could tinkle, he will pos-
sibly be satisfied on consulting Ingram’s Life (Minerva,
Library reprint, page 222). Perhaps anyone finding fault
with “The Raven” would have most justification in the
“ circular’’-like beginning of the line—
“ Sir," said I, “or Madam, truly your forgiveness I
implore."
Recent pundits: “Insanity is not a disease of
the mind, but an indication of underlying morbid
corporeal conditions.” —J. B. Tuke. “ r lhe effects
of alcohol in the production of mental defect have,
I think, been exaggerated ; and I do hot believe
that 38 per cent, of idiocy, as has been stated, is
attributable to the intemperance of ancestors.
The intemperance of the parent and the idiocy of
the child have often one common cause, pro-
gressive cerebral degeneration.’’—Jas. Crichton
Browne.
Steele Rucld’s Magazine for June arrives 10th
•J uly, with dengue’s disastrous delay not yet over-
taken- “Rudd” himself is very good this month;
and his interview' with George Reid (espe-
cially the picture) is worth laughing over. J.
A. Deck’s pathetic story of “Peg” and “Joseph
Ruskin’s” dramatic “ Western Barmaid” (with a
little too much paint on) are two striking things.—
This magazine is an unaffected, unconventional
product, and it prints some bad pictures so
honestly that they taste good, because the
humanity hasn’t been “drawn” out of them.
Advts. are “looking up,” and altogether the
maga. has a good healthy pulse in it.
Additional received from W.M.; L.F. ; U.; H.S.T. ;
H.Y. ; Cru. ; Bar. ; C. ; F.L.B. ; Bon. ; A.C. ; N. ; D.R.;
K. ; \V.L. ; G.E. ; K.B. ;B. & C... F.L.N.: The “ facts ”
were taken from G.T. edn. of Lond. Lyrics : which see. ...
P.W. : Line “ ’Tis but the green trees whispering of our
joys ” occurs in Caiverley’s version of Id. xxvii of Theo-
critus : see C.S.C.’s coll, work (Bell, Loud.).
A.G.B.
FLOTSAM
Shall / have grim black night, or stars, or deu>.
Or golden day , to fall upon my pain ?
To say good-bye for ever and to all,
Too tired to hope for Love’s warm light again.
Welcome, sweet rest. But oh, ’t was sweet to know
The green ivorld Jlowery in the sun and rain t
S.N.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
- SYDNEY.
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS' PRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
The CHEAPEST HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
FOOTBALLS,
All Balls fitted with Best Qualiry.
(IMPORTED) Red Rubber Bladders•
p.XJ GBY OE -A-SSOOI-A-TIOJNL
ysowo/y
Pot*!;
M
kl
m
H
I
§
(MtW
3 './»
«igg
J \V»&SS®B
Wmmmm
/ u
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Royal ” Match Footballs, 7/6.
NICHOLSON’S “Royal” Hand Sewn Match, 9/6
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Special Royal ” Footballs, 11/6.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s Extra Special Stpd “A.N.A.,” 14/6
GILBERT’S Best Match Footballs, 12/6.
BRYAN’S “Grasshopper” Match Footballs, 13/6.
“DIADEM” Buttonless Match, Association only, 13/6.
SYKE’S “ Rival,” Association Match only, 10/-.
SYKES “ Albion,” Association Match only, 11/6.
SYKE’S “League Defiance,” Association Match only, 15/-.
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY. s. d.
Solid Leather, No. 1 each 2 3
„„„2 „ 2 9
, „ „ 3 .. .. .. .. ~3 6
„ 4 ..,,4 3
I „ ~ Match II 5 0
ASSOCIATION. s. d.
Solid Leather, No. 1 each 2 C
.. .. 2 3 3
.. - » 3 3 9
„„4 4 6
~ „ Match 111 ~ 5 0
Special Youths’Match Ball, Best Quality.. ~ 14 0
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra Special Value.
No. 1, Is. 9d. each. No. 2,2 s. 3d. each. No. 3,2 s. 9d. each. No. 4,3 s. 3d. each.
FOOTBALL BLADDERS (Imported). Red Rubber—Rugby or Association.
s. d.
No. 1 each 1 0
„ 2 ',,14
„ 3 ,17
4 1 10
We can supply Colonial Biadders at Cheaper Prices if required.
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.—Shin Guards.
No. 5 ..
~ 6, Association only
~ 5, Rushy only, Special Extra Stout
Rubber
s. d.
each 2 3
2/9, 3 3
each 3 3
s. d.
Stout Twill, with tapes .. .. . pair X 0
Stout Twill, straps and buckles 13
Basil, leather straps and buckles .. .. „ 16
Brown Basil, extra large continuous leather
, straps 2 0
Gold Cape, straps and buckles .. .. „ 2 9
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather
straps pair 3 0
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, con-
tinuous straps, with or without ankle
pads
Same as above, larger size
4 0
5 0
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOT, blocked toe-cap, very light, a splendid
boot for Rugby, 10s 6d pair.
Extra Quality English-made BUCK SKIN BOOT (white), blocked toe and ankle
pads, guard over instep, very special quality, 14s 6d pair.
'Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOTS, blocked toe-caps, with and without
ankie pads, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d pair.
BRASS IN FLA TORS— Is 3d, Is lOd, 2s Gd, 3s 6d, 6s 6d each.
UMPIRES’ WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS, 6d each. LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
Stout Web Belts, Double Straps and Pocket, Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
SillU Blocked Leather Ankle Guards, 2/6 set of 4
EAR CAPS—' White Duck (open top), 3s each ; Buff Chamois
(netted crown), 3s 9d ea. ; Gold Cape (netted crown), 5s ea.
JERSEYS— Men’s Best Quality Navy, Royal Blue, Maroon or
Sky in single colors. Royal and Gold, Sky and Maroon,
Maroon and Gold, Black and Cardinal, Light and Dark
Blue, Black and White, Royal and White, Red and White,
Navy and White, Cardinal and Royal, Black and Royal,
Green and Red, Black and Gold, Green and Gold, in 2-inch
bars, 43/- dozen ; 4/3 each.
hem
StANbAftb
hANbICAO
Ascot
3'C
2 6
773
Tlie above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
1,1 Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Hull Sizt .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Henshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25 s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TEKNIS BALLS. doz .
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 10s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s Cd
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
w
BOXING GLOVES ;
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set-
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting-
Gloves, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set;
60z., 12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois,
Champion shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s (id set
135“ Illustrated Sports, Fishing Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
o-°
14
5 10
The Great
Monte
Carlo
Game.
Perfection of
Mechanical
ingenuity.
Finest Quality
Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert).
PRICE—
10/6
Post
Free.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment
due in about six
weeks.
PUNCHING BALLS.
Swinging Ball, complete, with best
quality Red Rubber Bladder-
-78 Cd, 11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s, 21s,
255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete—lss 6d, 16s 6d,
18s 6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fixing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rubber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels—
Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d eacli
SPECIAL REDUCTION
To advertise this Favorite
and up-to-date Rifle, the
Manufacturers have de-
cided to REDUCE the
Selling Price
FOR ONE
MONTH
ONLY .
"THE MAINE
Pifle
The Celebrated “ Maine ” Rifle,
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights
to 300yds., Bolt Action, 18in.
Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut
Stock. Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges. Weight, 2flb.
PRICE 12/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
CONICAL BALI
AMMUNITIOKT.
Gun Cartridges.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
„ 22 Long
„ 22 Long Rifle .
„ 22 Extra Long.
13 100 13 1000
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Od 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
'i T! R T, fiun 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
lteai Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Bebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
“The Reliable,”
™IS! £6 12S 6d
HOLLIS & SONS' “THE RELIABLE" D.8.8L. HAMMERLESS QUN, 12-
HO Lule top lever genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels, both choke, side
f , ’,■ * onfnmatie safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end. fitted with
lock action, neaUv engraved, chambered for 2*in. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR
ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States ..
£l2 12s
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 shots in lour seconds, weight
£5
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 gauge, top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. &E. fore-end, pistol an.
grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. .. r * tf*
■
> tsA
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifie
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 31b. 15s
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V s. d.
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2jib. .. 18 6
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 311 b 16 6
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUBT ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Telephone No. 769. Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall
■■ and Post Office, and within a stone’s throw of all the theatres.
TARIFF FOR ROOMS ONLY.
SINGLE ROOM : For One Guest, 2/6 per day, or 15/- per week.
DOUBLE ROOM : For Two Guests, 5/- per day, or 30/- per week.
BOARD and RESIDENCE TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM : For one Guest (with Full Board), 6/- per day, or 30/- per week.
DOUBLE ROOM : For Two Guests (with Full Board), 12/- per day, or JE3 per week.
Prompt attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made
this the MOST POPULAR HOUSE IN THE CITY.
Hotel Entrance : MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
WINCHtSTM
Thumb Trigger Model Rifle
SOMETHING NEW
SOMETHING NOVEL
A novelty in .22 caliber rifles. As its name indicates, the trig-
ger, located upon the upper side of the grip at the rear of the
bolt, is operated by pressing down with the thumb, thus obvi-
ating “pull off” in firing. Simplicity and quickness of action
are its features. It is a take-down, and has the widely imi-
tated Winchester bolt action. Notwithstanding its low price,
its quality is the same as that of all Winchester rifles.
mil
RUBBER
HEELS
SPECIAL
BY
ROYALTY.
Prevent worn-down heels and unshapely boots. Make one pair of boots '
wear as long as two. Reduce fatigue, give grace to the walk and make
every step a pleasure.
Obtainable retail from all Storekeepers and Boot Stores throughout the States.
Wholesale only from D, & W. MURRAY, Ltd.,
Adelaide, Kalgoorlie, Launceston, Townsville, Perth, Melbourne, Brisbane, Broken Hill.
Sole Manufacturers of the Wood-Milne REVOLVING HEEL Co., Preston, ENGLAND.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
AND CONSTIPATION. M
JHH mm I i
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-Sm Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT;’ Without it you boro m
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Ptaparad only by J. 0. UNO, Ltd.. ’FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, BNO.,
by J. O. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, «Sc., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,
Specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Iff | n ■ A. uX, xWQ A XX OJTDiVIAUI X*
WeaK Me " ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerses, Debility, Dost Power, Restore Dost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Be-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS £ upe ali Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
DLUUII wunt rlki-O. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Bloocf
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Ufa's 1 1 Women Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
mscSn WWUBIICSHI Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office: 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
MANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
A CASE AT MARRICKVILLE.
A VERY CONVINCING NARRATIVE.
Tha Case of
Mrs. O. COOPER.
(By a Special .Reporter.)
The physical condition of a large
proportion of the public makes con-
tinual appeal to the sympathies of the
thoughtful and kind, who are ever on
the alert to render aid where it is re-
quired. In an interview with our re-
presentative Mrs. Caroline Cooper, of
No. 3 Fitzroy-street, Marrickville,
gives some information to the afflicted
which should help them considerably.
Her statement runs as follows :
“My health is altogether different
now to what it was some years ago,
as there was a time when l was no-
thing but a total wreck, and now peo-
ple aro always telling me how well
and strong L look. Yes. I am not
like the same person at all, for now
I am always contented and happy in-
stead of being intensely miserable like
i used to be. But Heaven knows 1
had enough to make me so, for the
pains in my head were so great that
many a day 1 hardly knew what i was
doing. In each temple there was a
nasty beating sensation, which caused
me so much agony that often 1
thought 1 would surely go mad.
“You would welcome the arrival of
bed-time, so that you could sleep and
forget your afflictions tor a while
suggested the writer.
“(Jne would naturally think so, but
i didn’t, for the simple reason that 1
could seldom get any sleep, and oh !
how those hours of wakefulness* used
to wear me out ! Truly, when l got
up of a morning I felt worse* than if
I had not been in bed at all, and 1
always had a bitter tasto to make me
feel sick for the rest of the day. Some-
times 1 got so thoroughly exhausted
that it would have been impossible to
walk had 1 tried to, but knowing how
weak I was 1 used to stay indoors to
bo on the safe side, for when one is
like that it is such an easy thing to
meet with a serious accident. And
another thing, 1 was accustomed to
taking iits of giddiness, and often J
went right off and did not know any-
thing that was going on, so you sea
1 had to be care.ul. And wasn't 1
nervous ? Goodness ! I only had to
hear a little shout or a whistle and
I d. actually jump again, and it would
be a long time atterwards betore my
nerves would steady down a bit. And
i used to have the same shakiness of
my nerves when .1 wane up from what-
ever litile sleep 1 chanced to get,
which, by-the-way, was always punc-
tuated With the most awlul dreams
that made mo shudder to think of af-
terwards, and i d lind myself covered
Witn cold perspiration, too. Uh i tho ©
were nights of horror if you tike, and
i do pray that none of mine will ever
sutler in the same way. Why, rny
mind was so unhinged through exces-
sive nervousness that i was atraid to
be le*H alone*, and would not have
stayed in the dark for a fortune ; be-
if 1 closed my eyes lor a lew
seconds all sorts of ugly faces could
to seen, and those were the kind of
hideous sights i usually witnessed in
my dreams."
“Have you any idea what caused
your head pains and other ailments
' 1 tnink it was all through receiving
a sunstroke when a girl at my home
in Goulburn, for the doctor said 1
would always suffer with my head, and
the older 1 got the worse it would be.
Other doctors treated me afterwards,
and they all said what a dreadful
state my nerves were in, and also
that my digestion was as bad as it
could be; and the unfortunate part of
the whole affair was that their phy-
sics could not help me any. Howcicis.
medicines, pills galore, and no benc-
iicial result whatever—not, 1 can say
with trutu, up to the period* when .1
purchased some Clements Tonic
through a friend’s advice, and then,
for the lirst time during my long ill-
ness, 1 learned what it was to get
some substantial ease from my tor-
ments. At first l thought the relief
would be only short-lived. It seemed
too much to expect anything else af-
ter the disappointments of the past;
but Clements Tonic soon put an end
to that pessimistic idea by making me
feel better and strong-er every day.'and
when 1 realised that my improvement
was making such regular strides, my
heart was overflowing with pratitudo.
It is only right you should know that
besides the medicines my uoctore had
ordered 1 had taken a large variety
pf other mixtures bought from chem-
ists, and when Clements Tonic was
the only one amongst the lot that
could do mo good it is but ju«t and
proper that tne truth should be ad-
mitted. Nothing l had ever tried be-
fore could make me oat like Clements
Tonic did, and 1 assure you my appe-
tite had been very poor for months
and the case that came to my head
after a few bottles’ us» of that re-
medy was something to make me
thankful for the rest of my day#. The
pains in that quarter eventually sub-
sided altogether, and the difference in
my life then compared to what
it had been was just the differ-
ence existing between night and
day. Continuing with Clements To-
nic T lost the burdensome feel-
ings that affected me after taking
food, and soon the windy spasms that
had often doubled me up were quite
cured. It had been my unhappy lotto
have a feoling in the cheist as if 1 had
swallowed something hard and im-
movable-something that kept the
breath back and almokt smothered me;
but Clements Tonic did away with
that trouble, too, and also gave me
permanent relief from the pains that
used to locate themselves between my
shoulders and about tho small of my
back. .My eyes had always felt dull
and swollen, and 1 used to be irritable
and anxious from morning till night,
tearing that something was going to
happen ; but, strange as it may seem,
after using a few bottles of ClomenU
Tome my mind became as free from
anxious thoughts as a babe's. It gave
me a sense of lightheartedness that had
been lost to me for years, but such
could only be expected to follow after
bo much good had been realised. 1
am glad to say that Clements' Tonic
left nothing undone, for it gave me a
digestion that has remained sound for
many years past, and in regard to
nervousness —well, 1 hardly know how
to express myself. At all events, 1
can say that my nervous weaknesses
were 6oon overcome, and if anybody
sutlers from sleeplessness there’s noth-
ing in this world they need take but
Clements Tonic to make their nights
peaceful and refreshing. That remedy
succeeded in giving me perfect health,
and 1 would rather have a bottle of
Clements Tonic in the house than any-
thing olse ; so would my husband.”
‘‘He has used it too, then V”
‘‘My word, yes ! and thinks the
world of it. Ho has used Clements
Tonic and Ur. Fletcher’s Pills, and
swears by them. Well, 1 hope othors
in need will read my story, so you
may publish it as you feel disposed.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, CAROLINE COOPER, ol 3 Fltzroy-
street, Marrickville, in tb« State of New
South Wale*. Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declar* that I have
carefully read the annexed document, eonsist-
,ior of five folios and consecutively numbered
from oßt to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account oi my ill-
ness and cure by Clement* Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any
~w my statements— which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment : and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believ-
ing the *ame to be true, and by virtue of the
provision* ol the Oaths Act, 1900,
Subscribed and declared at Enmore thl*
seventeenth day of November, one thousand
nine hundred and four, before me,
F. A. DRURY, J.I
LADIES' oa, GENT.*S
Watches (Si Chains,
Birthday- RINGS
Brooches, Curb Chain Bracelets— FßßE.
A Solid Gold Ladies’ or Gent.’s Watch costs
from to / io. Don’t throw your money
away. If you want a watch that will equal for
time any solid gold watch made, send us your
name and address at once, and we will send
you 8 boxes of our famous New Life Electine
Vegetable Pills to sell at i/- a box —a grand
remedy and cure for all impure and weak con-
ditions of the blood, kidney and liver trouble, a
cure for constipation and weak nervous disor-
ders, a tonic and a life builder. Our pills are
genuine, and are carefully manufactured from
the very best drugs. They are easy to sell.
Send us your order at once, and we will send
you the 8 boxes, postage paid. When sold you
send us our money, Band we will send you
your prize. We are giving these watches and
| other prizes to quickly introduce our pills,
and when you receive your premium we ask you to show it to your friends. This is a grand oppor-
tunity to get a fine. Watch and Chain Free. Send u ’ your name and address at once. You
take no risk. Electing Medicine Co., Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
A Few Remarks from the Department of Public Health.
Head Office, Wellington, N.Z., ibth May, 1905.
Gentlemen,—l have to acknowledge receipt of your formulae of ‘‘Electine Kidney Bean.’’
“, ,ew Life, Blood, Tonic and Nerve Pill,” “ Electine Little Liver Granules ” and Electine Cold
and Headache Tablets.” I am glad to see that you are not ashamed to put your formulae on
the outside of each box. I have the honour to be, gentlemen, your obedient servant,
The Electine Medicine Co., Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W. D*. J. W. MASON, Chief Health Officer.,
m
no
eV
jfLoO


/
When the I
thermome*'
ter is low
We get careless and dress as if
it were summer. Then come
chills, colds, coughs. Keep
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
on hand. A dose or two at
the beginning will stop the
chills, break up the cold, and
prevent serious trouble. Look
out for cheap imitations.
In large and small bottles.
Avoid constipation. Hasten a cure by the
use of Ayer’s Hills.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co.. Lowell. Mass., U. S. A.
Purveyors
by Royal Warrant
To His Majesty
The King.
GUARANTEED PURE.
“MOIR’S”
WORCESTER
SAUCE
Quality & Flavor Unsurpassed.
“MOIR’S ”
GENUINE
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
It is the strongest Meal obtain-
able, Packed in hermetically
sealed tins, and is very fattening
and nourishing.
JOHN MOXR AND SON, Limited.
SYDNEY ACENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [1
MARTIN’S
PILLS
A Safe Medicine for Ladies.
The reason is they are purely a vegetable
composition, and expressly suited to the con-
stitution and requirements of women. This
explains the great success and golden opinions
which follow their use. Thousands say they
save all trouble, effectually remove all impuri-
ties of the blood, beautify the complexion, no
headache, no pain, no flushing, no giddiness,
no anxiety. They make work a pleasure, and
existence a joy. Superior to any other known
remedy, Price SI-■ Sold everywhere. Sole
proprietor, MARTIN, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.
MEMORY.
PELMAN’S SYSTEM.
A GOOD MEMORY is essential to success. It is
good memory that makes successful men and women
in every sphere of action. It is the possession of a good
memory that enables the worker to profit by learning
and experience. The memory can he developed and im-
proved by proper training, just as the muscles of the
body are developed and strengthened by proper exercises.
A course of
PELMAN’S SYSTEM
—OF—
MEMORY TRAINING
will develop your memory to a surprising extent, and put
you on the right road. There is no one who cannot
benefit by the System which has earned the endorse-
ment of the most eminent practical men and women of
the day.
The System is taught by correspondence in a course of
Five Lessons.
Any persons of ordinary education can master it in six
weeks by half-an-hour’s daily study.
WRITE for FREE COPY of Mr. Pelman’s Booklet.
PELMAN SCHOOL ’OP MEMORY TRAINING,
BOX 402 , G.P.0., MELBOURNE ,
England—4 Bloomsbury-street, London ; America—9ol
Whitehall Buildings, New York ; Germany—9 Mozartstr,
Munich ; France —109 Avenue de Neuilly, Paris ; Africa—
Lynne Buildings, Durban, Natal.
RQTHWELL’S
ONLY ADDRESS—
Edward St., Brisbane .
Send for Samples of our
SPECIAL STATION SHIRTS
27/6 the half-dozen,
to order, post aaid. [1
I
THE CAREFUL HOUSEWIFE
does not forget when ordering the household goods to include a bottle of " BONNING-TON’S
IRISH MOSS.” She knows it is advisable to have this medicine in the house, as it is a
certain remedy for troublesome Colds, Bronchitis, and Chest affections generally. It never
fails to cure if you obtain the genuine article,
Bonnincton’s Irish Moss
(OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.)
FINNEY, ISLES & CO, Limited.
Where the Western Drovers Go. &
(With apologies to “ Banjo ” Paterson.) 9
The mailman stopped for supper
With us at Clancy’s camp ;
Dead gidya we was burnin’ —
We didn’t need no lamp.
There was some of us got papers ;
The Boss he got new boots ;
One chap got notes from FINNEY’S
About their BIG BLOCK SUITS.
Before he’d got half through them,
“ Just hark to this ! ” he says,
And takes and reads them to us,
By that dead gidya’s blaze.
“ If you live ’way off in Brisbane
And a new suit you need,
In indigo-dyed serge,
Or in all-wool fancy tweed, ,
“ Will you drop a line to FINNEY’S
For patterns to be sent,
With inch-tape and directions
For your self-measurement ?
“In my wild erratic fancy
Visions come to me of Clancif.”
“BANJO.”
“ Then it you should send an order,
We know you’ll wear with pride
Your SUIT AT FORTY SHILLINGS
That FINNEY’S have supplied.”
Soon us chaps and good old Clancy
In Town turned out most swell,
In our TWO-POUND TOGS from
FINNEY’S—
The BIG BLOCK SUITS they sell.
To obtain the benefit of style and comfort at a minimum outlay, you should wear the “BIG BLOCK ”
CLOTHING. This is made specially to your measurements, in Fox’s Serge (Indigo Dye), and in Iligh-
class Fancy Tweeds. ipR? ' The Brice is 40/* per Suit to Measure.
The “BIG BLOCK” SUITS hang- gracefully, fit perfectly, wear satisfactorily, YOU CAN’T BEAT
and are the Best Value in Made-to-Measure Clothing offering in Australia to day. FINNEY'S.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms. They will be sent you, POST FREE, on receipt of request.
Finney, Isles & Co., Limited, The Big Block, BRISBANE.
/C TH
ARE YOU BALD ?
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, I will guarantee that
CAFIIiLA HAIR TONIC will make that “down” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capilla. 2/6 a bottle;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. O.
Richards, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
9
%
Z
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Reform.
I was hanging round the township, undecided
where to go,
(I had “ done in ” all my money on the “ tear ”),
When I struck up an acquaintance with a man
’twas good to know—
He looked at things so broadly and so fair.
There was a lot of feeling in his mild, persuasive
tone,
When he said it was most sorrowful and queer
That a man should strain his muscle, wear his
fingers to .the bone,
And sink the whole result in muddy beer.
He wasn’t moralising, and he felt constrained to
say,
That preaching by itself could not redeem—
But he’d practised some reforming in his own
small, simple \. ay,
And knew his was a practicable scheme.
He was rabbiting, he told me, and the job would
“run a mate;”
In fact, he felt inclined to take me in.
And he’d keep me off the liquor for some time, at
any rate,
If I’d come out in the morning and begin.
Of course I would. I thanked him; he was good
and no mistake.
His scheme might be a hobby, and all rot;
But his offer was substantial, and it could n’t be a
fake,
And I wanted work, and did n’t care at what.
So I tramped to where his camp was, fifteen miles
away at least,
On the range, beside a rugged granite seam
That leaned unto the sunrise as it reddened in
the east,
And there I learned his practicable scheme.
There was no prayer about it —it was mostly solid
toil,
I did the blessed trapping, and he cooked ;
And I cleaned and paired the bunnies while he
watched the billies boil;
That was one thing that he never overlooked ;
And then before the camp-fire, after “setting’’
every night,
He’d enlarge upon his plan for my reform ;
He supposed I’d be a tough one, but he’d make an
honest fight,
For his interest in my case was very warm.
He knew the early stages of a case were always
worst;
For, like horses in a freshly-harnessed team,
The patient’s beerful cravings were rebellious just
at first,
And they rose against his practicable scheme.
He always sold the rabbits: “For, you see,” he
said, “ the cure
All depends upon a-strengthening your nerve;
And if you handle money for a while, I’m pretty
sure
To your long-established habit you will swerve.”
There was force about his reason—it was telling,
so to speak;
And, besides, just like a brother he’d become;
So he banked our golden savings at the township
every week,
Until we’d saved a rather handsome sum. '
“ There’ll be something when we’re finished,” he
informed me, with a nudge
(To doubt his word I didn’t even dream),;
“And I’ll see that you don’t drink it—you’ll be
sober as a judge
Through the working of my practicable scheme.”
Well, one night he left a sovereign where I’d see
it on the floor,
And while he was asleep I went a-tramp
To the township; I was thirsty for a drink or two.
no more.
I’d be back ere kookaburra at the camp.
Now, some things a man remembers that ’twere
better to forget,
But they’re far too deeply burned into his brain,
So the memory of that morning makes me blaze
in fury yet,
And I wonder how my reason stood the strain.
The philanthropist was waiting for that simple
chance to scoot,
And was off before the morning’s faintest gleam,
And I didn’t drink my dividend—he’d bolted
with the loot.
Then I realised hia “ practicable scheme.”
VIO.
BEN SUN.
A Rant on the Ant.
Through scented gum, through brigalow and
mulga,
Along the Darling, Paroo and the Culg’a,
From wild Orara to the thirsty Bulga,
Lord stitch my pants !
(’Tis persecution, man, that makes me vulga’)
There’s plaguing ants.
Although I’ve wamdered in the tramp’s regalia,
From sea to sea, into its penetralia,
I’ve never yet discovered in Australia
Wild elephants,
Or that delightful spot (alas, the failure !)
Unknown to ants.
I’ve pitched my camp according to convention,
In every kind of place that you could mention ;
To sand, and loam, and clay I’ve giv’n attention,
Likewise to plants;
But nary once by chance or with intention
Eluded ants.
The night when I proposed to Hannah Thatcher
(There was no girl in all the land to match her),
She bounded up and off—nor could I catch her,
Because —O Cant!
Where ’twould have been indelicate to scratch
her,
There was an ant.
In drought and flood, in every kind of weather,
’Tis certain man and ant will be together;
And though it is a battery ’gainst a feather,
He mostly grants,
When one or two invade his basement leather,
The field to ants.
A spot at times belieth my conclusion,
When man awhile knows freedom from intrusion;
But jam or steak soon shows him his delusion ;
And he descants,
With qualifying adjuncts in profusion,
On swarming ants.
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


ROTHerhanis
ENGLISH WATCHES.
Speciality ;—; *
MODELE DE LUXE WATCHES
WITH RATE CERTIFICATE.
sold by all
WHO CAN-SHO W-
f Jewellers.
lUUSTRHIBCKM.OOUEB
<&?
BOTH
u.
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines & Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c., &c.
Sole Aoent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, Ceorge St., Sydney.
B.S
Medicated
TABLETS.
THE GREAT NEW ZEALAND CURE
For Coughs, Colds, Catarrh, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption.
Recommended by the N.Z. Health Department, and
acknowledged by Specialists to be the Greatest Lung 1
Food of the day. Sold by Chemists at 1/6 and 2/6 tin.
obtainable, write, enclosing stamps, to BJORNSTAD & STACEY, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If not
CONGREVE'S
BALSAMIC
»UXIR
FQR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
M COUCHS, COLDS.
OP ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERS.
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price Qtfl., Post Free.
From Coombe Lodge, Peckham, London, S.E., England
OSTRICH
PLUMES
ILER
Black, White,
Cream, Natu-
ral, or Black
tipped with
White.
Length 10 inches.
3/-
Post
Free.
Note This—Every line we sell is dressed
from the raw material at our own factory.
Direct from the farm to you.
ILLUSTRATED PRIOB LIST POST TREE.
Wmm
/T\ IVEN
<4JT AWAY
to Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
p ThTee Black Tips, or
' Black tipped with white
A Marvel of Cheapness
Write to-day. Send Postal
Notes. Price List Pree.
m
o.
m
m
m
s
m
i
From the
Famous Farms
of S. Africa.
Black, White,
Cream,
Natural, or
Black tipped
with White.
10/6
Post
Free
(Length
15 inches.)
The Best Value in Australia.
il'hey look soft and graceful, therefore
eminently becoming for young and old.
An Aid to Beauty.
Black, White,
Cream. Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
Length 12 inches.
2 for 10/-
Post free.
(_As illustrated).
No woman who cares about her appearance
can afford to be indifferent to Ostrich Plumes—
an aid which helps to her attainment of beauty.
NATURAL OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 21/- LENGTH ij YARDS.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Dent* Corner Strand Arcade, PITT ST*, SYDNEY
IfJU ntcZr. Bourke anti Swunston Sts., Melbourne. Mention The Bulletin.
mem
■
VISITORS TO SYPNEY.
the;
Empire Hotel,
PITT & HUNTER STS.
THIS HOTEL is situated in the highest
and best position of Sydney, close to the
Botanical Gardens, Government House,
Circular Quay (the landing-place of all large
Ocean Mail Steamers), near principal Clubs,
Theatres, and within two minutes’ walk of
G.P.O. It is most elegantly furnished
throughout; Sanitary Arrangements are of
the very latest. Electrically lighted through-
out, and elevators to every floor.
Smoking, Commercial Rooms,
and Ladies’ Drawing Rooms,
and Library, &c.
TARIFF:
BACK ROOMS - -
FRONT ROOMS -
- from £2 2s. Weekly
- from £3 3s. Weekly
JAfIES JACKSON, Proprietor (Late Western Australia and Queensland).
“I firmly believe that if the children
were well fed our workhouses, gaols and
asylums, would soon be empty.”
—Sir JOHN GORST, M P.
ONE CUP
Delicious OF
PLASMON
COCOA
Equals in nutriment $-lb. Beef or Ten Cups of
ordinary Cocoa.
And is absolutely free from all chemicals.
Aids Digestion. Braces the Nerves.
Invigorates the System.
“It Is able to support Life."— The Lancet.
Mr. J. KING, Swan’s St., North Freemantle, W. Australia,
HAS BEEN CURED
OF A SCROTAL
RUPTURE
Mb. J. KING
of 20 years’ standing without operaticn, and has dis-
carded his truss. He had suffered not only from his rupture,
but also from the effects of ill-fitting spring trusses, which caused
more pain than the rupture. He had given up all hopes of a cure
until he heard of the Ki-e method. He tried it and it cured him.
Thousands of men, women and children have been cured by this
method without pain, danger or operation. Among them are
Chas. Pittner. Mossman, via Port Douglas, Queensland; Mrs.
F. Medley, 331, Swan Street, Bichmond, Melbourne . L. Exton
(child), 2, Harold Street, Newtown, near Sydney, N.S.W.; and
J. Westhead, Biver Darling, Pooncaria, N.S.W. Your rupture
cannot be worse than some I have cured. You owe it to yourself to
at least investigate carefully this method of cure. BEWARE of
any person or persons claiming to be or to have been at any time
connected with me in business in any way. Such statements are
absolutely fraudulent and devoid of all foundation. BEWARE
of all imitations of my method. The genuine Bice method can be
obtained from my London office only. I will send you a book
giving a complete description of rupture and its cure, and telling
why the Bice method has succeeded in so many thousands of
cases, if you will write for it. Do not be misled by worthless
guarantees, but write for my world-wide-known and tested
method. Write to-day to W. S. RICE, Rupture Specialist
(Dept. 2320), 8 *9, Stonecutter Street, London, E.C. _ ji _ , .
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained, by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorabye J>oss.Mit.es.
Si*3S^S^ve l^S^SSf.
economical up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used In this climate tor over 20 years.
rfrsTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
A.so makers of «OUE FAVORITE’’ 0,. »““• -MPOUW" BATH
ANDRADE
FOR
NOVELTIES.
MUSCLE
WITH
Kill Directions
USED BY
H jMOjSCHMIDT
POST
FREE REGiSTE,R6t>r~-
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d doxen, 3 for 2s.
ZSN3ARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS- FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, 1s; posted 1/3.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish,
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Flashlights on Japan, by Dr. Maloney, 6d, ‘
God and My Neighbor, 9d, post Is. Tom Mann o>
Socialism, 3d, post 4d. Shanty Entertainment Is.
Bothner’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos..
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Dp, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sai i no,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handfook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, ls6d. Stolen Sweets. Is 6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Wruer,
Is. Photography, Is. Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s bd.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Age of Reason, Is 3d. Ingersolls Works, 6d, Is.
2s6d, and 6s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is. min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post is -d.
Self Instructor, Is.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. 1 ree
catalogues :-No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3.
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. b:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Rented*•
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstre dt TbUMAN, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
TRUMAN'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
’ BOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. & Is. 6d.
I N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prenared bv Poingdkstbb & T human,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
1 Chemists in the Australian Colouies.
FREE
by post, a perfect
HOME CUREby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferersshow they _niay CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious c 9 nse< i^ t |f S ' A ddres^- E
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYDIOI:
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
nervousness.
£.OBB of ENERGY and H ’
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried
advertised remedy, and at tort «i
SS5SK*«u“”S3ki ~ •«
o to ‘^"p.otoVDHSY.
Address! A. MINER* tTTT yTrrrr


IN HOT CLIMATES : 1
where a good antiseptic soap is ofted
more a necessity than a luxury,
CALVERT’S
20 per cent
Carbolic Soap
has a ready sale, on account of its
refreshing qualities, and the protec-
tion its use gives against mosquito
bites. It contains 20% Crystal Car-
bolic, and is useful for insect bites
or stings, ringworm, itch, &c.
Calvert’s Disinfecting Powder
is guaranteed to contain 15% Carbolic and
so is cheap to use as it need only be lightly
sprinkled to destroy noxious and unpleas-
ant odours and prevent the approach ot
infection. J lb., 1 lb. and 2 lb. tins.
LJ
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Ib allowed on every eyrie bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years. _ _
LATEST
MODELS
£2oW to £6
Eftdie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Kim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
r acked anti Delivered Free
10 any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
(iaa Second-Hand Cycles
iUU all makes, JQf f £2mtO
good as new, ,
Great factory clearance sale at half factory price*.
EARS A CYCLE machine* Active. Agents
■wanted in each district. Large profits easily n ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our spec / ■ ffer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &o . hair prices.
MEAD OYGLE Bep\ 839
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AND CHICAGO.
3 Ml OS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
IS Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleasons How
to Train tiie Horse, ls6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is od.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is; post,
Is 3d. All Tiie Bulletin series. Dr. Carver s 1 ricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beautys
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is (id. How to
M\ke Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s (id. Aubt. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang ok
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, 19 Rd. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 20 1 ecu's.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
»
Write {or my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking. 1
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the stage, is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. GirsY Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Crevasse's Advice to a
Mother, 3s Cd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
SArPHO, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits ok Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
5s Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
WE CURE PAIN I
V
unit'""':
THE DR. AUSTIN ELECTRIC BELT is
the only never-failing cure for Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Weak Back or Kidneys, Nervousness,
Liver, Bladder and Stomach Troubles, Pains in
the Head, and all those ailments from which men
and women suffer. It cures after all other reme-
dies have failed.
Wo don’t ask anyone to take chances on
our Invention.
It doesn’t cost you anything if ws fail.
All you lose is your time, and if our belt fails to
cure, you will have the satisfaction of knowing
that the best, strongest, and finest electric body
appliances in the world—ONE WITH 50,000
CURES TO ITS CREDIT—has failed, and that
there is no cure for you in electricity.
Remember, our terms are—
PAY WHEN CURED.
PR EE DIAGNOSIS.— We do not charge for advice written or personal.
PREE BOOK.— Write far oar beautifully illustrated Medical Book and Letters from
cured Patients, sent sealed, FREE. Write to-day.
The Dr* Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.* Dept- m.
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.— New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
Wfi are receiving Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
immmsmm
OLID
fc.
Brooches, Rings, etc.
GIVEN
AWAY
To persons of either Sex, sending us their Name and
Address we will fonvard Free 24 Packets of our
“Enamel Tooth Powder and a similar
number of Coupons. Dispose of these 24 Packets among
your acquaintances at the nominal price of 6 d each , and
to each purchaser of a Packet give one Coupon, which
entitles that person to a Tooth Brush Free. The continued systematic use of this
Pozvder soon induces the growth of a Hard, White Enamel Surface on the Teeth,
and thus prevents Decay, removes Tartar and keeps the gums hard and healthy.
In addition imparts a Delicious Fragrance to the Breath.
We don’t ask you to trust us. WE TRUST YOU.
Return the money obtained from the sale of our Tooth Powders, and we will at
once forward you Free any prize you may select fro?n the premium list of Solid
Gold Articles which we send with the powders. This offer, made for a
limited period to extend our already large connection, is surely the most liberal ever
made by a Reliable Firm . Remember, our Prizes are not Rolled Gold, Gold Filled,
or Gold Pattern, but
(hall marked.) SOLID GOLD, (guaranteed.)
Write to-day^
Free,
THE DENTAL SPECIALTY CO.,
BK PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES*
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
Private, Nervoue, Skin,
and Blood Diseases, Loss
of Vitality and Vigor,
Rupture, Varicocele, and
all kindred disorders
cured SPEEDILY,
THOROUGHLY, and
PERMANENTLY.
Health, Strength, Vigor, Happi-
ness, Energy, and Ambition
restored by Australasia’s lead-
ing and most successful
Specialist. Has more testi-
monials than any other
Physician in Australasia.
Almost any Practitioner can af-
ford relief; but men who are weak
and despondi nt require thorough
and permanent cures. Such cures
are effected daily by Dr. W. Carter
Watson, Chief Physician and Sur-
geon of the
Bydnay Institute of
Medicine & Electricity.
He is registered by Government
Medical Boards, and when he
undertakes your case you run no
risk. His methods of treatment
are envied by less skilful Practi-
tioners. He never uses mercury or
other dangerous drugs, and his
remedies are prepared personalty in
his private Laboratories. When
he says he will cure you thoroughly
HE IS READY TO BACK HIS STATEMENT
by a forfeit of £250, and testimonials of hundreds of cured patients, not only in Sydney, ju rom every
town and village in Australasia. He invites you to call and have a confidential chat about j our trounie. a
thorough examipation and consultation will cost you nothing, and he will explain his
weak and diseased men Strong, Healthy and Vigorous. It may be that you have beenußsucc .
by numerous practitioners. That is not evidence that you are incurable. It means that the
administered nnskilfnll v. DR. WATSON offers you correct treatment that will make a man of you, as in nas
administered unskilfully,
made of others.
Home Cures by Mail.
DR. WATSON cures a great many patients every year
without seeing them. This system of treatment is a
special and scientifically managed Department.. H
3 r ou cannot call, write at once for a diagnosis blank which covers every symptom. j
diagnosed as minutely and treated as skilfully in this manner as by a personal interview. IS »
work, “MALADIES OF MANKIND,”
is sent FREE to any address on receipt of sixpence in stamps to defray postage. This ™ J-JjV j
contains 53 profusely-illustrated chapters on the functions of the human body, and pr 1 3■ PP
Electricity as an adjunct to medicine.
Dr. W. Carter Watson, M.D.,
Etc.,
Etc.,
FREE ADVICE.
REMEDIES
HOURS—
-10 to 5 Daily.
Evenings, 7 to 9
Monday, Wednesday
and Saturday.
Chief Physician and Surgeon
SYDNEY INSTITUTE of MEDICINE AND ELECTRICITY,
78 & SO Hxmter-st., Sydney
(including:
Carriage),
s£l
the
‘PLUM’
thb
‘PLUM’
r i ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rin s
vT like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edee that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7*. 6fL
«« RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER* 6(1. cake.
_ f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10b. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21ft
Prigs Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
fag* - Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
Sola Agents:
New Zealand Loan a Mercantile Agency Co,
Ltd.
SYDNEY,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best ad vantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.


PLEASURE PROFIT.
Cyphers Incubators.
'THESE world-renowned INCUBATORS are worked on
a new principle. Ine Regulator is simply perfect,
and cannot get out of order. Being worked on the Hot
Air principle, they have no tanks to leak. They are self-
ventilated, and are fully guaranteed to bring out lively
and healthy chicks and ducklings. Send for circular.
J. & A. BOYES, AOEWTB »
241=243 Elizabeth-street, flelbourne,
THE
GROSVENOR HOTEL
/
SYDNEY .
This most comfortable Family and Com-
mercial Hotel has recently undergone a
thorough renovation, and is now quite
up-to-date, under the personal supervision
of .. .
MRS. WM. GANNON,
Proprietress.
HOW I GREW TALL
A Startling Story which will Interest
all who are short.
The Height of Either Sex can
quickly be increased from
Two to Five Inches.
Those Marvellous Results can be accom-
plished at home without tho knowledge
of your most intimate friends.
The Free Book tells you all about it.
l
V.
/A
A
«
Inventors, scientists, and physicians have for
years been trying to find some method whereby
the height of an individual could be increased,
and up to the last few years have met with failure.
It remained for a comparatively young man, Mr.
K. Leo Minges by name, to discover what so many
others had failed to do.
Mr. Minges resides in Brighton, N.Y., and has
devoted the best part of his life to studying and
experimenting on the Cartilage, and his great
efforts have at last been crowned with success. A
large company, composed of Brighton’s leading
citizens, has been formed for the purpose of
placing Mr. Minges’ discovery and inventions
before the public, so that now it is possible for
any lady or gentleman who is short to increase her
or his height from two to five inches. These
results are absolutely guaranteed.
Mr. Minges has successfully used his method on
himself, and has grown from a short, stunted
boy to a handsome, robust man of six feet one
inch in height. Thousands of people living in all
parts of the world are using his method with
equally as startling results. Let us send you the
absolute'proof of tne above statements. We have
just issued a beautifully illustrated book, entitled
“ How to Grow Tall, ” which contains information
that will surprise you. Ten thousand of these
remarkable books will be given away absolutely
free of charge in order to introduce them. If you
fail to receive a copy, you will always regret it.
This great book tells how Mr. Minges made his
wonderful discovery. It tells you how you can
increase your height and build up the entire sys-
tem. It contains the pictures and statements of
many who have used this method. After you
receive the book you will thank us the longest day
you live for having placed within your reach this
great opportunity.
Remember, a postal card will bring it to your
very door, all charges prepaid. All correspond-
ence strictly confidential and sent in plain
envelopes. If you wish a free copy of this book
and the proof of our claims, write to-day. Ad-
dress The Cartilage Co., Dept. 528, Brighton,
N.Y., U.S.A.
By using the Wilson Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
I tressing head noises write
! for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress-Star Novelty Co.,
229r231 Collins-st, Melb.
DEAF
HEAa
“Crackajack
The * Crackajack * 0 hist rated below presents nol only the very latest Improvements,
but Is unquestionably the best and most beautiful toned Mouth Organ
The Reeds are of best bell metal alloy, tuned by experts. The frames
are of thoroughly seasoned hardwood, the reid plates are soIM,, —
brass, and every reed tongue Is securely riveted. The
Tone Is perfected by a system of voicing the
reeds, which makes It rich and powerful
in volume, and the reeds are
subjected to a process of
special tuning, so that
each note through-
out the entire
register Is ab-
solutely perfect
The covers are
of heavy bras 9.
heavily plated and
artistically engrav-
ed. It is impossible
to fully describe these
Instruments and their
musical qualities
Mouth Organs
i
m
pf~°
They must be seen
and used to be
appreciated. We
can recommend
them as being
superior to all
other Mouth
Organs in
appearance,
quality and
tone.
Posted to ant
ADDRESS IN THE
WORLD FOR 4D.
EXTRA.
Made In Four Styles
No. I Grackajack Professional, 40 Reeds
No. 2 Grackajack Senior, 20 Reeds •
No. 3 Grackajack Junior, 20 Reeds • 1/6
No. 4 Boss Gracker • * -1/-
m w
ALLAN & CO., 276=278 Collins St., Melbourne.
HARDY
S
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.
700 Prizes.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
la Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY OOMFETITIOIff.
WINES *• B “‘ °* v * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS, Jta
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
ROBERT HURST,
FLINDERS ST., SWANSTON ST.,
BOURKE ST.,
All Suburbs, and Ballarat.
fIELBOURNE
No. 271 C.
No. 271 C.
Special
Gentlemen's
“Zephyr" Kid
Balmorals,
Welted,
Guaranteed,
12s. 6d.
This BOOT is made
in any Shape to
suit Customers,
and will be mailed
anywhere in the
Commonwealth
for
1 3s. 6d
Robert Hurst
MELBOURNE, all ♦ . .
Suburbs, and Ballarat.
I 3&
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
62-58 Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—.
H J. DIDDAMS and CO.,
Brisbane.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P Building, Perth.
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
lias it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everythin'}.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEH made bv Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., Is
separate'y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
The London Treatment
FOB THE CUBE OF
ALCOHOLISM and NARCOTISM.
THIS is a GENUINE Up-to-date and
PERMANENT CURE for the Excessive
Use of Drugs, and Drink Habit. This is the
latest and most satisfactory treatment that has
ever been placed before the public of Austra-
lasia, and is in no way connected with the
so-called Gold Cure. Pamphlet containing
full particulars will be sent post free.
Address : H. W. BUTTREY,
Home Bush, Maeterton, N.Z.
(P.O. Box 121, Masterton, N.Z.)
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years 9
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
OnMdge:
” £ung Tonic
to be the WORLD'S CUREI
for Coughs Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
t can ba obtained from
any Cbemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For indigestion
Biliousness and
Acidity.
Allays Feverish Conditions due
to the Vaccination and
Teething of infants.
■ ■
SOLD THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA,
A Policy for the
Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d. ; POSTED, Bd.


Trade
MarK
FOX
See that all FOX’S Serges and Coating's
are stamped every yard on the back,
with the above trade mark and the words
PURE INDIGO
as a guarantee of soundness of material
and dye.
FOX BROS. 8 Co. Ltd.,Wellington,Somerset, ENGLAND.
BLOCC
BRO? j
i
m
Is
mi
m
THE
SAUCE
OF THE
AGE
ARCUS
'C-;
SAUCE
FOR GAME
FACTUH
BLOGG BROS/ FACTORY
The Home of the “ Argus Sauce.”
Contains over 30,000 Feet of Flooring.
The “ARGUS SAUCE” has the exact flavor you have teen trying to get for years; it is composed of
fourteen piquant and wholesome condiments , most of which are well known to good housewives. The art of
blending these condiments has taken years to bring to perfection , but the result is worth the work and rewards
us for the trouble. Every bottle is matured by age t without which no sauce is perfect.
r x
BLOCC
BROf'j
L ■ W A
s'-
1/ THU
[SAUCE
V OF THE
AGE
Cockle’s Hntibilious
" 1 do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS a FAMILY MEDICINE FOR a CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family*
'm.
V///
s+ y
GUSSA
[tHfe-SAUcE Of AOg
■72
1 BLOCS BRQSI


JAS. HENNESSY & CO., COGNAC.
GUARANTEE. Every drop of Jas. Hennessy & Coy.’s well-known ONE
and THREE STAR BRANDIES is Pure Grape Spirit
distilled from Wine only.
CAUTION. . . The Public should insist upon having Jas. Hennessy &
Coy.’s original bottle and white and gold label as
shipped by them from Cognac.
TARIFF COMMISSION.
Extract from the “Lancet” Special Commission on Brandt: “ According to our view it is j ust as dishonest to describe grain spirit and its
congeners as ‘ brandy ’ as it would be to call margarine ‘ butter,’ especially bearing m mind the medicinal applications ot
brandy and its special adaptability as distinct from all other spirits for the purpose.”
THE SUNSHINE OF LIFE
Means Abundant Health, Energy, Vigorous Bodily and Mental Activity, accom-
panied by Will Force and the power to compete with everyone in the battle of life.
Is this your condition ?
WHY HAVEN’T YOU GOT IT?
Are your Organs Clogged, Weak, or Dilatory ? Do you throw off the Waste Matters
sufficiently ? - You can easily ascertain this, and Tone up the whole Digestive Organs
and Bowels by a course of
LAXATINE,
THE LUBRICATING
LOZENGE LAXATIVE.
The People’s Ideal Aperient, Is. Box.
EASY TO BUY, EASY TO TAKE, PERFECT IV ACTIOS.
DOES NOT GRIPE OR INCONVENIENCE.
ALL CHEMISTS
BUY A WATCH
BUT
% E 4
SrrS
Buy a good one. It pays in the end. You want a
Watch that will give you perfect time.
H.B. LEVER WATCHES
are unequalled for Timekeeping.
Every Watch, is Timed and Examined and
Guaranteed.
Price 21s.
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
Nickel Silver or Gun Metal Cases.
[2].
HEINDORFF BROS., 210 Queen St., BRISBANE.
NESTLE’S MILK 9
THE WORLD’S STANDARD QUALITY.
# Nestle’s Milk Food
FOR CHILDREN.
..The ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE for MOTHERS’ MILK.
THE WHITE HALF-PAGE.
An uninvited guest, who has just arrived to test
The country air where Dante went a-strolling,
Remarked: “ Well, lam blest, if this ain t a cosy nest,
You had better let me do you some log-rolling.
This climate is a prize ; you ought to advertise,
And your imps and friends make up a gorgeous pageant!”
The devil’s goggle eyes nearly fell out with surprise
At the coolness of this advertising agent.
And he sadly murmured“ Git!—the track you’d better
hit
To where the cooler breezes are a-blowing ;
For though you’re full of grit, you’d soon ‘ hoo-doo ’ the
pit,
And before you’d been here long it would be snowing.”
Voice of the Sphinx Club.
JX
FRAUDULENT ADVERTISING.
The curse of commercial life to-day is fraudulent
advertising. Hardly a week goes by in which we
do not hear of some person being cajoled into
buying somebody’s linseed poultice because the
advertisement said it would draw anything draw-
able, from a “Hop” cartoon to an iron-bark
stump.
JX
It seems to us as if the advertising writer is the
prime and responsible party in the perpetration
of fraudulent advertising, since he is the originator
of it. He exercises his ingenuity, knowledge, art
of expression and technical skill for perpetrating
fraud. Yet he is only the small pea-nut man in
the operation.
JX
The greatest sinner in fraudulent advertising is
the newspaper. The newspaper is the instru-
ment of publicity which gives voice to those
fraudulent statements. It is responsible for the
publication of those misleading advertisements,
and yet holds its franchise in the public interest
on the understanding that, in return for freedom
of speech allowed, protection shall be given to its
readers.
JX
SAID JUNIUS:
“ It is necessary to establish the truth of your
first proposition before you presume to draw an
inference from it.”
So far as we know, Junius did not write adver-
tisements j but had he been in the business to-day
he would no doubt have been able to prove that
the best way to stop a leak in an iron roof, tank,
or spout, was to use Ruberine Paint.
Take the modern divine-healer fake—
THE HALF HAS NEVER BEEN TOLD,
HIS TOUCH HAB MADE THEM WHOLE.
An advertisement headed like the above held out
to the sick, diseased and ailing the prospect of
eternal health. Stricken, deluded humanity
flocked to his door, hoping, but hardly believing,
that they would be cured of their ills. Had most
of the applicants spent their money in lining their
houses with Giant Paper, in order to make them
damp and draught proof, there would have been
no need for visiting such a charlatan.
JX
Advertising pays in spite of frauds, and is
believed in spite of frauds. That is evidenced by
the ever-increasing sale of Ruberoid Roofing.
People learn to know what is honest and what is
dishonest very quickly.
jX
It is no doubt pleasing to the family to know
that
OUR PAPA DOES NOT DRINK,
because a new tasteless discovery was put into his
morning cup of coffee. Perhaps we will next hear
that said papa has put his drink-money into a
terrace of houses, and that in the foundations
thereof Ruberoid Dampcourse has been laid.
JX
The well-known advertised article suffers little
from fraudulent advertising. The new line put
upon the market, if a fraud, pays the penalty of
fraud. A reputation has to be built up for genuine
merit, unassisted by the puff of printers’ ink. It
is costly, it is slow ; but if, like Ruberoid Damp-
course, the commodity possesses qualifications
worthy of recommendation, success is sure to
attend the efforts of the advertiser.
J*
The “pleasant-home-employment” advertise-
ments, which offer exceptional opportunities—
WOMEN! HERE’S YOUR CHANCE!
BE INDEPENDENT OF YOUR HUBBAND!
are familiar to all newspaper readers. Ladies
illustrating those advertisements are generally
shown dressed in handsome costumes, seated at
mahogany desks. One woman in a country town
had been induced to take up this work, in the
hope that she would be able to earn enough to
have the galvanised iron removed from the roof
and Ruberoid substituted. Her motive was an
admirable one. Lots of people would like to sub-
stitute Ruberoid Roofing for the hot-as-Sheol-m-
-sumraer and cold-as-a-Laplander’s-nose-in-winter
galvanised iron. We can only hope she succeeded.
There is no doubt that the influence of honest
advertising would be fundamentally greater, and
the necessary expenditure vastly less, if the frauds
could be eliminated, T 9 lay the responsibility of
censorship on the publisher of a newspaper or a
magazine for every advertisement appearing in
his columns is unfair in many ways. It demands
that he immediately cut off his income from those
who are his largest and most constant aid in pro-
ducing his publication. It threatens him with
setting a slower advertising pace among adver-
tisers, and -would sometimes demand that his
advertising columns be cleaner than his news
pages.
jX
Some of the pill advertisements are too humofous
to be fraudulent—
PAPYRUS PILLS FOR PORTLY PHARAOHS.
When portly Pharaohs put on phat
Did they remark, “ Well, what of that?”
Nay, nay ! To cure them of their ills
They took them many Papyrus Pills.
Thus advertisers by the Nile
Contrived to make their little pile.
—Voice of the Sphinx Club.
J*
It is always desirable for the sake of the news-
paper that an advertisement should be intelligent
as well as neatly displayed. It should be written
in good, clear, simple English, and should be suf-
ficiently interesting to not only attract attention
but to convince prospective purchasers. But,
above all, it should be truthful—like the Anchor
Fence advertisements.
jX
A NEW STORY.
Macjones is a traveller in Fiscal Politics—ham
sandwiches. Yesterday he rushed in with a new
conundrum: “What is the difference between
J. C. Williamson and G. H. Reid?” Of course
we gave it up. We generally do. He explained
that J. C. Williamson had a show, but G. H. Reid
had not. There was nothing excruciatingly funny
about that; in fact, there never is anything funny
about Macjones except his name. He claims
Welsh parentage, but was unlucky enough to be
born while his mother was away in Scotland.
JX
As a side line Macjones wanted to carry
Avenarius, but he is too imaginative. Avenarius
will protect timber above or below ground. It is
a sure exterminator of white ants, but it won t
cure measles or make feathers grow on frogs.
On one of his trips on the Western line Mac.
had a travelling companion of whom he could
make neither head nor tail. In desperation he
asked straight out who he was travelling for. Iho
stranger replied: “The biggest firm on earth.
Lord and Church.” “ Don’t know them,” said
Mac, “Where’s their Sydney house?” “Branches
everywhere,” replied the stranger. “ What s your
line?” “Well, judging by what some peoplesay,
principally dry goods.” Mac. has gone through
all the directories and trade protective firm lists
to hunt up Lord and Church. Dry cuss, Macjones,
jX
They say this fake never dies—-
A COLD WATCH FOR NOTHING.
SILVER CHAIN AND DIAMOND PENDANT THROWN IN.
Josh Billings said : “When I see a rattlesnakes
head sticking out of a hole I say that hole belongs
to that snake, and Igo about my business. Dw
man or woman who thinks lie or she is going to
get a gold watch for nothing better let that
advertisement alone, it belongs to a man who
knows his business.
&
Poets, artists, designers and clever writers have
not hesitated to set forth the genuine merits ot
Ruberoid; but every verse, every picture, every
design and every article has been confined within
the compass of truth.
This world is all a fleeting' show,
For man’s illusion given ;
But, played beneath a Ruberoid roof,
Will make that show a heaven.
JX
Perhaps one of the most deceiving advertise-
ments now appearing is—
MAKE YOUR SON A DOCTOR.
SURGERY AND MEDICINE TAUGHT BY LETTER.
The memory-building, teeth-extracting, food
digesting, corn-curing correspondence schools may
or may not be a success—we have not had any
experience in them ; but the man who thinks
can make his son a doctor of medicine or surgery
through the post-office reminds us ot a n
poem—
I’ve just got the name of a clever chap
That I’m certainly going to hire ;
He claims that he can teach any man
How to get rich by wire
&
Neither time nor space will permit us to folb*
these fraudulent advertisements any furthei,
we unhesitatingly state that if you want ro°
get Ruberoid ; if you want fencing, get. Aa
Fence ; if you want floorcloth, get Ruberoid I
cloth ; and if you want to be rid of white ants, ge
Avenarius. In each of those lines you sre
value and, above all, satisfaction,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.—N0. 1327.
THURSDAY, JULY 20, 1005.
Price 6d.
WANTED WORK, NOT TALK.
Young Australia (who’s been getting hungry of late): “ Now, you’ve got another show, Alfred. But we want work now; let him
over there do the gab. You get on with this job, and give our ironworks a fresh start.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
'* Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleou, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
TERMS TO, SUBSCRIBERS,\
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Ilosv to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
m The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing, with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But 7io
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in IllaeTe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 88 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
11. R. Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
HongKong.— Brewer and Co., 88 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.—Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, JULY 20, 1905.
FEDERALISING THE STATE DEBTS.
Since the time, a few months ago, when the late
Australian Government dragged its dignity in the
Inud by holding further futile conferences with
the State authorities over the proposed federalising
of the debts, little or nothing has been done. The
only thing that is more negative than the thing
that hasn’t been done since the conference is the
thing that wasn’t done at the conference, and the
thing that it is proposed to do during the coming
Federal session is vague and uncertain. The con-
ference fixed an indifferent eye upon a scheme in
which nobody really felt any great confidence.
Some of the State Premiers promised, in a manner
which carried no weight and exhibited no enthu-
siasm, to submit the matter to their State Parlia-
ments, and some of them hardly promised
even that much. Nobody undertook that he
would bring the matter of federalising the State
debts promptly before his little local legislature ;
drive any necessary measure through with all
the force of his majority; and, having got it
through, that he would then dwell on the door-
step of the Australian Parliament till it did its
share of the work also. The State Premiers were
allowed to make terms, and dictate conditions,
and give back-talk over a matter in which they
should never have been consulted, except as re-
gards minor details, and a weak Federal Govern-
ment took their assumptions quite mildly. But it
is Australia’s misfortune that nobody ever seems
to be in haste or in real earnest over financial
reform, and when such reform is on the board the
tendency always is to take the most circuitous and
the worst-metalled road towards the alleged desti-
nation. If the country was one quarter as cir-
cuitous over floating loans, it would hardly manage
to borrow £250,000 in 24 months.
* # * 41
The Australian Government has power to take
over the State debts as they existed at the com-
mencement of the Commonwealth without asking
any permission whatever from the States, and a
Government which was more bent on business, and
less desirous of merely “saving its face” than the
lately-deceased combination would have kept this
fact in mind. If any State’s share of the customs
and excise revenue is insufficient to pay the in-
terest on _ that State’s debt when taken over, the
Constitution makes the State liable for the
balance, whether the State promises to pay that
balance or not; and the time that George
Turner wasted in asking the States to promise to
pay the balance for which they were responsible
in any case, might have been more healthfully
employed at fishing. In any case, if a State
doesn’t pay its balance, the Australian Parlia-
ment has unlimited taxing powers, and can
recover the money due to it with the strong hand.
The question about whether the sinking fund
on the transferred debts shall be, at some
period in the dim future, 10s. or £1 per
cent, per annum filled much space in recent
conferences, but as it was only proposed, in most
cases, to start a sinking fund as the debts fell due
for renewal, and as some of them don’t fall due
for 46 years yet, this was really a very dim
and remote business. In any case, it is a matter
which the Commonwealth Government should
settle itself, As for the final question as to who
should do the borrowing in future, and whether
the State that wants to pawn itself further should
visit uncle in person or get its Federal parent to see
uncle on its behalf, there is no immediate need
to negotiate even about that. A Government
which was really in earnest would climb over all
these things in its hurry to get to the main
issues, which should be these four :
(1) That the Federal authority intends to do no bor-
rowing: itself, except for the renewal of State debts taken
over.
(2) That it intends to acquire all the State debts, and
will find a way to do so sooner or later, even if it is
necessary to amend the Constitution for the purpose.
(3) That it intends to reduce the aggregate debt, and if
the States continue borrowing that only means that it
will be necessary for the Australian Parliament to coun-
terbalance their extravagance by extra efforts in the way
of paying off.
(4) That the only way to prove the sincerity of the Aus-
tralian Government as regards its sinking fund proposals
—which, as they involve the raising of money, are the
proposals that nobody ever regards very seriously until
they are proved—is by starting at once. Therefore the
sinking fund should begin this financial year, and even if
the debts'are not all formally taken over till next year,
or the year after, or till 1953, the fund will not be wasted.
* * * *
In other words, the theory is that the time to
begin the work of taking over, consolidating and
repaying the public debts of the States is now,
and the place to. begin is just here. True, the
Australian Government may not be in a position
to make a very large beginning, but if it raised
£500,000 annually of extra revenue, and put that
amount each year to a fund which would be
devoted to the purchase of whatever State
securities could be obtained most cheaply, and the
fund accumulated at an average of per cent,
per annum compound interest, the Commonwealth
would at least have established a sinking fund of
ss. per £lOO. And ss, per £lOO in reality is often
more in the end than £1 per cent, in theory.
Even if nothing more were done it would mean
(at per cent.) that the Federal authority would,
in 20 years, have acquired £14,000,000 of the
States’ securities, while in 30 years it would have
acquired nearly £26,000,000. When the Common-
wealth was able to spare £1,000,000 a year,
the good work would go on with twice the
velocity. If, in addition, the Australian Parlia-
ment had the courage to adopt the Canadian
banking system, and require the banks to hold 40
per cent, of their cash securities in Government
paper, it would acquire permanent command,
without interest, of at least £8,000,000. And if it
set aside £2,000,000 of this as a gold reserve to
support its paper issue, and used another £2,000,000
in the acquisition of a Federal capital site and in
laying the foundations of a capital, there would
still be £4,000,000 to throw into the Federal sink-
ing fund for the extinction of the State debts.
These may seem small beginnings, but at least
they would mean that in 20 years the Common-
wealth would have bought up £22,000,000 of State
securities, and that the repurchase of the State’s
debts would then be going on at the rate of
£1,250,000 per annum. And the rate of repur-
chase would be constantly increasing.
* * * *
All this need in no way interfere with anything
the Australian Government might want to do re
the formal taking over of the State liabilities. If
that Government didn’t want to officially and
completely assume the burden till it had split the
last possible hair into two exactly equal strips,
and till it had devised a scheme that would please
the most suspicious State Premier and pacify the
most cantankerous State Treasurer, there would
be nothing save a possible sense of its own dignity
to prevent it negotiating so long as its voice' held
out. The Federal sinking fund would raise no
new difficulty between the Federal and
State Treasurers, and it would neither ag-
gravate nor settle (at least it would
not immediately settle) any old one. But
it would at least be something done.
Every financial reformer in Australia has some
scheme for establishing a sinking fund some day—
George Turner himself had one for founding a
sinking fund by instalments, the great work to get
really and completely under way about fifty years
hence. There have been so many schemes for
beginning to reform ten or twenty or fifty years
hence—N.S.W. State Premier Carruthers, for
instance, was a vast financial reformer in theory,
though in practice he reduced the sinking fund
instead of increasing it—that the relief of seeing
some one commence this year would be beyond
words. Even if the States kept on borrowing
that is no reason why there should not be a
Federal sinking fund to set against their borrow-
ings ; it is only a reason why the Federal
fund should be made larger when possible
so as to be a more adequate counterbalance.
To wait till the States agree to leave off floating
new loans before the Commonwealth commences
buying up and extinguishing old ones is not only
irrelevant—it is a reversal of all logic and reason.
There will be less need for a Federal sinking fund
when borrowing has ceased than there is to-day,
just as a disease which is getting no worse requires
less violent remedies than the one which is becom-
ing more serious all the time.
MOKE OF HOLMAN, M.L.A.
Holman, M.L.A., in rejoinder :
The Bulletin, entirely without warrant, dubs me a
“ convinced Freetrader,” credits me with all its pet Cob-
DEN-ite atrocities, couples me with M‘Millan, and bom-
bards me with all the stereotyped fiscal gags that are kept
in stock for the discomfiture of the Calico JiMMY-ite. The
Bulletin, apparently, cannot imagine that a man can deny
that Protection is a Labor measure without there-and-then
asserting that Freetrade is. It assumes I make that
assertion. I have never made it in my life. In the whole
course of my connection with Labor politics (which is the
whole of my life politically) I have resisted as strenuously
any attempt to tack the Labor movement on to Freetrade
as on to any other form of fiscal mania.
I didn’t say so in my letter, I admit, because, for one
thing (such is the vanity of elected persons), I thought
this was known, and, for another thing, I was only dealing
with one topic—Labor and Protection —and didn’t think
it necessary there to deal with another —Labor and Free-
trade. Had I realised fully the abstracted way in which
The Bulletin looks at State politics, and the violent effort
it requires to recall any State politician to its memory, I
would have taken care that my letter should have been a
complete confession of faith on fiscalism (and I would have
added a few remarks on Predestination and the Book-
makers’ strike, by way of anticipating any possible mis-
understanding on these topics). But my letter was not
intended to cover the entire created universe in its sweep.
I only said I didn’t believe in one thing—High Tariff.
This, says Tiif, Bulletin, means that I do believe in the
opposite thing — just as the Wheelers and Woolls-Rut-
Ledges say it we declare we don’t believe in Twelfth of
July foolishness that we do believe in re-starting 1 the fires
of Smithfield.
Let me say then now that I don’t believe in Freetrade
any more than The Bulletin does. I would oppose, and
always have opposed (hitherto not unsuccessfully), any
attempt to bind us up with it.
The difference between us is that The Bulletin appar-
ently only knows of two policies, while I know of three.
To The Bulletin, apparently, there is nothing for it but
to choose between barracking for the manufacturing
capitalist and barracking for the importing capitalist—
“ the Tory merchant.” I decline to barrack for either.
My creed is Socialism—which X have advocated steadily
for the last fifteen years, and which The Bulletin itself
advocates occasionally—whenever it can wrendh its mind
off the High Court telephones, or the necessity of boost-
ing Private Enterprise by means of a High Tariff.
Thus, in this week’s issue, The Bulletin says Protec-
tion alone will give us an arms faePory. I deny this. Left
at this, I suppose The Bulletin would (if not too tired of
me and the topic) spread a column and a half of blast-
iferous eloquence next week over the infamy of my advo-
cacy of the “ importation ”of arms. It might call me
something worse even than a fluent lawyer (though that
was a most unkind cut). Warned by last week’s experi-
ence, therefore, I rush to say that I don’t dream of advo-
cating importing arms. But an arms factory can be
started here to-morrow without one jot or tittle of the
tariff being touched, by Socialism —by a new industry
being run on a collectivist basis from the start (to use my
own phrase). This is what I “advocate.” This is appa-
rently where The Bulletin and I part company. To
The Bulletin it is clear that either Private Enterprise
must be given the job of making arms, or Private Enter-
prise must be given the job of importing arms. To me
there seems no necessity for Private Enterprise to have
anything to do with it. The State can. make its own
arms (and its own locomotives and uniforms and ships
and tobacco—arms are merely a handy example), and the
tariff need not worry any genuine Labor man.
Plain sailing like this, however, doesn’t seem to appeal
to the untamed Caledonian intellect of the genl who
commented on my letter. According to him we must
(1) invite a Pierpont Morgan to arise and start an arms
factory ; (2) subsidise P. Morgan to the extent of a few
millions, through a high tariff, to encourage him to do it,
and incidentally develop him into a fatted plutocrat ;
(3) pass Arbitration Acts, Eight Hours Acts and Factory'
Acts to keep his waxing fatness a little in check ; and (4)
some day in the distant future buy the fatted Pierpont
Morgan out at a correspondingly fatted price. This is
what the Scotch gentleman in question calls a National
and Socialistic policy. It may be so. But it is one which
I must again respectfully decline to enthuse over.
» ■* * *
Holman, M.L.A., now dodges quite away
from all explanation of the lies contained in Ins
previous letter to The Bulletin —the Freetrade
lie that the aliens in England are mostly Germans,
who have fled there from their own high tariff
country, and the especially' 1 insolent lie that this
paper asks us to build up great steel and iron
works by a high tariff “ in order that the capitalists
who run the works may make large fortunes, and
run ARMIES of Pinkertons, and savagely fight
every step we take towards nationalising the
works ; ” and he adds a new falsehood in saying
that this paprr wants to invite a Pierpont Mor-
gan to start an arms factory, See. Such a slippery
person may seem hardly worth answering, but
some remarks follow on the off-chance :
* * * *
The Bulletin only judges Holman, M.L.A., by his
general career to be a Freetrader, a slavish agent of the
importer, an enemy to the progress of Australian industry
and the representative of a class which is all these things
and worse.
In N.S.W., as in other States, the great majority of the
manufacturer’s employees are workmen ; the great
majority of the importer’s employees are mere clerks.
The (mostly anti-Protectionist) Labor party of N.S.VV. has
been largely responsible for laws and methods which raise
the cost of manufacturing by (quite rightly) compelling
the manufacturer to pay tiigher wages for shorter hours
than in England, while it has carefully left the importer
free to undersell the manufacturer by interfering very
little with the class which forms the bulk of his employees.
It has said and done much about the sweated workman
and very little about the importers’ stand-by, the sweated
clerk. The present system does a great (leal to protect
the local unionist against the cheap local non-unionist
(and thus hampers the manufacturer), but in a multi-
tude of lines it does nothing to protect the local
unionist against the foreign non-unionist (to do
that would handicap the sacred importer). The pro-
duct of the Australian cheap non-unionist (who
would help the local manufacturer to produce cheaply) is
accursed, but the product of the foreign non-unionist (who
helps the importer so that he may sell cheaply) doesn’t
seem to matter. With all this Protection of the foreign
manufacturer and iiis agent, the importer, against the
Australian manufacturer, Mr. Holman seems to have no
complaint. The richest man in Sydney is a man who made
his pile by importing, but no one seems to have yet heard
Mr. Holman sneer at him as a capitalist and a Pierpont
Morgan. His scoffs about “interesting capitalists” are
reserved for a struggling firm which pays far better wages
than the rich importer in question, and which was trying
to resist competition based on shameful piracy of an Aus-
tralian invention. And Mr. Holman was so anxious to
curse the Australian manufacturer that he hadn’t time to
say a word against the foreign pirate.
* * » *
Every great American trust is based, as is well-known,
on private ownership of railways, the manipulation of
railway rates, and the boycotting of competitors per
medium of the railways. Close alongside Australia is
Maoriland, which shows that, with State railway control
and Labor legislation, manufactures can be fostered by
tariff methods without any sign of “ armies of Pinker-
tons” arising. Mr. Holman, in his desperate anxiety to
make out a case against local industries, carefully ignores
this example close at hand. Fiance is a country with
high Protection, vast industries, careful State control of
railways, and probably a more general diffusion of wealth
than is known in any other land on earth. Mr. Holman
apparently never heard of France. His one specimen
horror is the country which is, par excellence, the land of
private railway ownership. It suits the importer, who
doesn’t want his business interfered with by local indus-
tries, to hold up the Standard Oil Monopoly and the Beef
Trust as dreadful consequences of Protection, and their
faithful mouthpiece and echo, Mr. Holman, passes the lie
along just as he passed along the lie about the
alien in England being mainly a German fleeing from his
own high tariff. Mr. Holman’s war whoop would suggest
that there is no other land in existence save the United
States, with its private railway monopoly. In his desire
to suppress local industries, he even scoffs covertly at
his own party’s programme of Arbitration Acts, Factory
Acts and Eight-Hour Acts as things of small value and
not likely to do much good.
« * * *
But Mr. Holman believes, theoretically, in State
enterprise, and has mentioned it occasionally in the last
15 years. Also, when the country has a State enterprise
like the railways, he believes in pawning it to private
capitalists. It was declared the other night in the
Assembly, by members of Mr. Holman’s own party, that
there are 30,000 unemployed in N.S.W. If any one starts
a factory, and pays good wages for eight hours
work to fiirtl profitable employment for these men, Mr.
Holman calls him an “interesting capitalist,” and
conjures up visions of riot, anarchy, and slaughterous
“ Pinkertons.” And as regards founding State industries
to employ them Mr. Holman recently wrote to The Bul-
letin that he was “ prepared to wait,” and he wouldn’t
mind starting industries “if the country is capable of
any new industries.” In the report of that debate about
the hunger and wretchedness of the N.S.W. unemployed
The Bulletin can’t even find a mention of Mr. Holman
having risen to suggest that State industries—which
might interfere with the profits of the blessed importer—
should be started for their assistance. It appears to be
all theory. And the people can’t wait while Mr. Holman
has dreams and theories in the background. They are
hungry. They can’t eat anybody’s beautiful visions of
something in the dim remote. They can’t dine on Mr.
Holman’s heavenly aspect or his fluent vocabulary.
Fifteen years of thinking and waiting haven’t got that
member any further than a decision that it isn’t necessary
to hurry, and meanwhile, on the assurance of Mr.
Holman’s Parliamentary colleagues, many of the people
of N.S.W. have struck a worse fate than being employed
by a Carnegie.
* * * *
The question which concerns the people is this: The
N.S.W. manufacturer is so handicapped as compared with
his chief competitor by having to pay higher wages for
shorter hours, that industries are increasing- almost im-
perceptibly. The importer, with the cheap workman in
England and the cheap sweated shop and office staff in
N.S.W., is able to keep the manufacturer in check and
prevent him providing any new work worth mentioning
for the workless —who can’t all “ go on the land ” for want
of means to go with, even if they knew anything about
land. Mr. Holman and his kind make not one serious
effort to establish State iron, steel and brass works, or
cotton, woollen, silk or linen mills, to find these hungry
masses employment and food—while they starve Mr. Hol-
man writes that he is “content to wait,” and he fixes no
date when his contentment is likely to give way to feverish
activity. He is neither a Protectionist nor a Freetrader,
but finding something very much resembling Freetrade
on hand —something near enough to it to give the Free-
trade importer the advantage and the real worker
the poverty and hunger-—he doesn’t propose to disturb
this blissful condition by any undue haste after State
industries. In fact his original letter (B. 6/7/’O5) suggests
a fearful amount of waiting while the importer
makes his pile and the artisan pines for a job,
for in it he says also “we want to nationalise
industries as they develop,” and as he denounces
any vigorous attempt at development as a conspiracy to
bring along Oarnegies and Pinkerton murderers this
looks like very long delay indeed. And even when Mr.
Holman’s State industries come to pass, these industries
will presumably pay quite as good wages for eight hours’
work as the private manufacturer does, and then foreign
imports will make the State cotton factory quite as hope-
less as the private one is, unless the country has High
Protection—or prohibition, which is the Highest Pro-
tection.
* * * *
It is questionable if Carnegie at his worst was really as
callous as Mr. Holman. That gentleman can hardly sup-
pose that his colleagues were lying when they told their
tale of distress in the Assembly, the other night. And
what consolation has he to offer? “ The land ” is an un-
attainable refuge for most of the poor, even if Mr. Hoi.man
and some of his friends had shown, in the days when they
held the political balance, a great deal more energy
than they did in forcing a graduated land-tax to
break up the great estates of the rich land monopolist.
Most of the unemployed don’t know how to be clerks at
30s. a week in a wealthy importer’s warehouse. The
State can’t borrow enough (even if borrowing were any-
thing more than a postponement and subsequent aggra-
vation of the evil) to relieve more than a fraction
of the alleged distress. It is spending nearly £2,000,000
a year of loan money now, and it can’t borrow
£5,000,000 a year. The Labor legislation to which
so many pinned their faith is scoffed at by Mr.
Holman as so poor and weak a thing that privately-
owned industries must not be encouraged lest it should
prove of no account against the bloated manufacturer.
And the question of State industries is a mere academical
problem which may become something more, it would
seem, when Mr. Holman thinks the country is capable of
them. Mr. Holman, as a mere State legislator, might not
be able to do much, but his attitude is that of the man
who is asked for bread, and doesn’t even give anything so
valuable as a stone. If Mr. Holman were the hired agent
of the importers, what more could he do for them than
denounce Protection, denounce the local manufacturer,
and be “ content to wait ” indefinitely for State manufac-
tures, and give the wealthy anti-Soeialist importer the
clearest possible field in the interim—the indefinitely-long
interim ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Battleship, Two Cruisers, and a Few
Torpedo Boats.
When the Deakin Government emerges from its
temporary recess, with its programme in one hand
and the battleaxe of active warfare in the other, it
would be an interesting departure if the pro-
gramme already alluded to included a proposition
that Australia should, without further delay or
ceremony, start building its own defensive fleet.
Almost every political programme nowadays con-
tains some vague allusions to “ Defence,” but
these allusions have never, up to now, got much
further than the alluding stage. It is doubtful if
they are intended to get any further. The idea
has become general that “ Defence ” is a vast and
incredible mystery—a thing that requires 20 years
of consideration, and 20 or 40 more years for the
drawing up of plans, the preparation of reports,
and the collecting of learned opinions from
imported officials with cocked hats—and it is
questionable if any Minister nowadays expects
anything to really happen within his own life-
time. Some general remarks about the necessity
of teaching the school-kid to stick out his chest in
the playground, and the advisability of encourag-
ing the cadet to practise with his pea-rifle on the
laughing jackass, are about all the expansion that
is really looked for. If an Australian Ministry
put baldly on its programme the building of a
good up-to-date battleship, two first-class cruisers,
and say ten torpedo boats as the first beginnings
of an Australian marine defence force, it would be
so surprisingly practical a proceeding that the
Speaker would probably faint in the fastnesses of
his own wig. Yet it is hard to see why such a
thing should not be done. Everybody is
agreed that Australia requires sea defence, and
already broad plain hints come from England that
we may have to provide our own sea defence
or take our chance /among the wolves. Other
countries with small populations—such countries
as Denmark, Greece, Norway, Chili and Peru,
all with less than our population, and such as
Holland and Argentina with not much more—do
more or less in this way as a matter of course.
Holland possesses 17 modern fighting ships and a
swarm of torpedo boats, and Argentina can argue
the point with 20 quarrelsome vessels at a push.
There is no reason why Australia should not do
better than any of these. It isn’t necessary to
get any complete or elaborate programme of
defence prepared ; there will be time to attend to
that while the ships are building. There will be
time also to train the officers while the ships are
building. There will be time to raise the money
(by taxation) while the ships are building. The
first essential is to get out of the lethargy
which makes Australia regard a real army and a
real fleet and a real system of defence as a dream
which is as far off as the millennium, and
which makes it consider the Minister for
Defence as an ornamental ass who writes minutes,
and gives fatherly advice in a general way to the
school-kid to throw out his chest or his box or his
carpet-bag in the playground, and urges the cadet
to take careful aim at the kookaburra with his
popgun. In other words, the only way to do
anything is to begin. And a good beginning
would be to put the immediate construction of
one battleship, two first-class cruisers, and a little
swarm of torpedo boats on the Ministerial pro-
gramme. These wouldn’t amount to a navy in
themselves, but they would be the beginning of
one, and if the same kind of thing were put on
the programme often enough there would be a
real navy by-and-bye. Some day Japan will
assuredly demand free admission for its subjects
to Australia as part of the price of its alliance
with Britain, and it all depends on the greatness
of Britain’s need whether the demand will be
granted or not. Australia, in its present defence-
less condition, could only that the Jap
demand should be refused. Australia, with a
serviceable navy, could reply that its alliance was
worth as much to Britain as that of Japan—which
would be a very different argument.
—*
Labor and Fiscalism.
The inter-State Conference of the Australian
Labor party concluded its sittings in Melbourne
without definitely getting out of the bog which it
calls “fiscal agnosticism,” or something of that


sort, and which it pretends to believe isn’t a bog
of stagnation, but a great living principle. No-
minally, the Labor party still prides itself on its
Solid fidelity to the faith that two and two may
make four, or, on the other hand, may make five,
but the matter is not worth having an opinion
about; and ostensibly it is still willing to spend
some of its time in seeing that the job for
the Australian worker is a well-paid and
fair-hours job* and yet more of its time
in affirming that there is not the slightest
importance to be attached to the issue
as to whether there is any job or not. It is a
deplorable frame of mind for grown men to get
into, without an argument to support it or even a
reasonable sentiment to give it countenance, de-
pending for its existence solely on whirling phrases
and pretty polysyllables that would mean wealth
coming from the mouth of a parrot, but have no
practical use in a reasoning being’s equipment.
Still, whilst the Labor party managers would not
acknowledge the folly of “fiscal agnosticism,”
they were forced by circumstances into agreeing
to a means of solution of the one vital prin-
ciple of Australian politics by affirming the
desirability of holding a Referendum on the
fiscal issue, and pledging the Labor party to
loyally abide by the decision at that poll
of the people. Since most of the voters of
Australia are Protectionist, the result of such
a Referendum is a foregone conclusion, and, as a
vote of the people would give a stability to the
verdict greater than that attaching to a vote of
Parliament, the fiscal Referendum is, on the
whole, a good idea, if it is carried out under
proper conditions. But the conditions are of
prime importance. No referendum should be
taken except simultaneously with a general elec-
tion, as otherwise a heavy vote is unlikely; and
it would be useless to take a vote on the issue of
“Protection versus Preetrade.” There are “Pro-
tectionists ” whose idea of a tariff is 2'j per cent,
art valorem, and The Bulletin knows one genuine
“Freetrader” who, as soon as Protection is
mentioned, foams at the mouth and mutters
“plutocracy, trusts, rings, and public robbery,”
and yet confesses that he favors the absolute pro-
hibition of any imports which would enter into
competition with Australian manufactures. To
ask for a vote on phrases would be folly. Some
definite tariff must be defined, and the handiest
way to effect that purpose would be for the
Die a kin Government, guided by the evidence
before the Tariff Commission, to thoroughly revise
the existing hotch-potch of a Freetection tariff,
put the results in a Bill—something like the old
.Kingston Tariff Bill, but stronger even than that
—before the House, and ask the people to vote
“aye” or “nay” on that Bill. That would pro-
vide for a fair settlement of a vexed question, and
if the Labor party will keep its pledge to assist
that it may be forgiven its polysyllables.
■ ♦
The Deakin-Reid “ Barney.”
There continues a feverish newspaper contro-
versy as to the circumstances leading up to the
downfall of G. H. Reid as Federal Premier ; and
charges of “disloyalty” and “treachery” come
glibly from the Reidites. It is worth while briefly
re-stating the facts. While the Watson Govern-
ment was in office Reid made overtures for an
alliance with Deakin. An agreement was drawn
up, but the Deakin party would not subscribe to it.
and the proposed union fell through. Then Reid
angled for the support of Deakin and so much of
his following as he could get, and Deakin was
led into voting against the Watson Govern-
ment on an issue which Watson had made vital.
R.eid being installed in office, Deakin assisted
him to live through a few troubled weeks of Par-
liament, and then to get into recess. In recess,
Reid looked around for some programme on which
the coalition which he led might appeal to the
country, as a dissolution seemed to be inevitable
on the opening of Parliament. He hit upon anti-
Socialism. The Bulletin, at the time, pointed
out that it was not possible for Deakin to subscribe
to that faked cry, for it would practically mean a
campaign of slander against the very legislation he
had himself carried through. “Anti-Socialism”
opened Deakin’s eyes. He refused to co-operate
with Reid in his new campaign or to bellow for
his new brass god. That, practically, was the end
of the coalition ; and that was four months ago.
But it suited Reid’s purpose to pretend that he
was still allied with Deakin, and he went around
the land beating the anti-Socialistic drum, and, as
he did so, rallying supporters to the Labor party.
Meanwhile another factor obtruded. Attorney-
General Symon opened his historic attack on the
High Court, an attack which was as evil in its
effects as it was mean and paltry in its details.
Half-Premier Reid, for a long while, hesitated
between two courses. The attack on the High
Court was so unreasonable and, its effect in
alienating supporters was so clear, that at
first he was inclined to take the right
side and restrain his colleague. But in Cabinet
discussion Symon, and Reid’s old anti-Federal
prejudices, proved too strong, and the half-Prime
Minister threw his lot in with his Attorney-
General. It was obvious then that there was a
rock ahead for the Ministry when Parliament
opened, and that Deakin would bitterly resent
this anti-Federal attack on a Court which had
been constituted by his Act. Thus matters stood
as the time for opening Parliament drew near.
Deakin spoke first at Perth (W.A.) and later at
Ballarat (Vic.), practically re-affirming what
he had already told Reid privately, months before,
that he wasn’t going with him on any vague
anti-Socialism.” There was nothing dishonorable
or treacherous in these speeches. But they indi-
cated clearly that Deakin, whilst still on the side
of the Government, did not consider himself
bound indissolubly to it, linked by a common fear
of the Labor party. Then the High Court diffi-
culty began to haunt the Cabinet. With the pro-
duction of the correspondence—especially if all
the correspondence were published—the actions of
the Government would have been shown in a
sinister light. A scandal so far new to Australian
politics would have been disclosed and the Govern-
ment inevitably defeated—defeated, too, on a point
of administration which would have left no hope
of a dissolution. As a desperate resource, the
Government came down with a speech practi-
cally dissolving Parliament. If that had
been accepted by the House; it would have
given the Government at least two months
more of office and a chance then of snatch-
ing something out of a general election. The
alternative facing the Reid Government was
a bold coup which might come off, or office for a
fortnight or so with inevitable defeat to follow.
Deakin's Ballarat speech was only of secondary
importance in helping the decision. It was the
wraith of the High Court scandal which rushed
the Cabinet to its doom. Deakin’s speeches only
helped insofar as they intimated that lie was
not—as they imagined— prepared to swallow
everything Reid did. The half-Premier, in short
had reckoned that he had Deakin tied up ■ and
the Ballarat speech showed that that was wrong
and that when the High Court difficulty came up
Deakin could vote honestlv. That meant dis
missal from office, and Reid took a bold course—
as any cornered creature will if the corner is
tight enough.
Closer Settlement on Rocks*
Vic. Premier Bent's golden-haired girl the
Closer Settlement Act—is already turning out to
be the gold-washed fraud she promised to be. So
far the Board has spent about £300,000, and has
got four (a whole four) estates, aggregating 48,000
acres, which will at best supply no more than 200
land seekers, while applications already sent in
number nearly 1000. Not one would-be farmer is
likely to be on his land before next September.
Just here the Board has bumped up against the
alleged law of supply and demand, which the
Tory plausibly quotes as a reason against com-
pulsory purchase. There being a great demand
for land, the supply has suddenly and un-
accountably ceased, and the Board has been
quite unable to come to terms with the
owners of five estates it has inspected since
it bought the first four. As was also pre-
dicted, the State’s need for land has simply caused
the land sharks to raise their already exorbitant
demands. All the land trouble might be avoided
if Parliament imposed a heavy graduated land-tax
to break up large estates automatically, and also
hurried things on with a compulsory purchase law.
There has been so much criticism of the Board’s
last purchase—Overnewton, between St. Albans
and Sydenham, 15 miles from Melbourne —that
Bent lately motored round the estate to see if, as
was alleged, it was a mere stony paddock incapable
of close cultivation. It holds 9000 acres, and
Bent reckons all but 600 or 800 can be cultivated,
but local residents laugh like the benighted jack-
ss, and challenge him to get one of his smartest
Brighton market-gardeners to run a plough 20
yards in a straight line, anywhere on the estate,
without smashing the instrument. Along the
Kororoit Creek, at any rate, there are huge ter-
races of bluestone boulders, running in lines and
extending back goodness knows how far. Bent
says he can get these out for 7s. 6d. per acre—and
the locals are dying to see him try. The Board
paid £60,000 for Overnewton and the adjacent
Arundel estate of 600 acres. Of the lot about 1200
acres are good, deep, chocolate soil, worth about
£l5 an acre; the rest a thin covering sprinkled
over bluestone. And, for the present, Bent’s
Closer Settlement has stopped there.
♦
Flag-Flapping by Law.
Deputy Arbitration Court Judge Gibson, ap-
pointed to deal with breaches of award under the
N.S. W. Act, heard a batch of cases, the other
day, which wrung tears from all the Tory papers.
A number of men had not paid up their union
subscriptions, and the Judge had to give verdicts
against them. This, says the Tory paper, is a
monstrous misuse of the law to compel men to be
unionists whether they want to or not. The
simple fact is that it merely compels men to keep
a bond which they have entered into with em-
ployers and the State. Unions agree to obey
awards of the court; but if members could back
out of the union when an award had been given
against them, or after a case had been stated to
the court, they would be able to snap
their fingers at the award and incur no
penalty. The provision isn’t to safeguard the
unions ; it is to compel workmen to obey an
award when it goes against them, which is the
very thing these Tory papers and the employers
say they want to see done. But while the prin-
ciple is as solid as any principle can be, the unions
do a foolish thing for themselves when they load
their rules with fines for refusing to flag-flap and
things like that. One man was fined because he
wouldn’t join in an Eight Hours procession ; and
the rule that compels a man to trail along through
the streets after a bit of bunting is a fool of a rule.
The Leaguers who want to compel youngsters to
“salute the flag” on Empire Day have the dead
cat of scorn flung at them ; and they deserve it.
They would earn two dead cats if they proposed
to shut the schools against kids who wouldn’t
enter into the foolish flag-flapping business. Yet
that is the position of the unions which have this
rule. All that the law of the land is concerned
with is that the members of the union shall obey
the awards of the court ; and to use it to compel
them to wave a flag, or wear blucher boots, or
christen their eldest youngster Bile, or do any
other irrelevancy, is a bit of tyranny which puts
the whole Arbitration law in danger^
♦
The Alleged Corruption of the High Court.
At the Sydney 12th of July orgies Dill Macky
made some remarks which the S.M. Herald
reported as follows :
“ What’s in a name ? ” It appeared to him (Dr. Macky)
there was a good deal in a name. Supposing a man
embezzled £6OOO or £7OOO, and after being convicted for
the offence appealed to the High Court, which said that
this man had been charged with larceny. Supposing the
indictment to be good, because it suited the powers that
be to call it larceny, the proceedings were all over, the
prison doors were thrown open, and the man set free.
Those who could not understand this might be inclined
to ask someone else what was in a name, and that some-
one else might be able to say that the difference was
between being within and without the walls of a gaol.
These remarks were made in the course of proceed-
ings during which almost every speaker alluded
to himself as a champion of liberty, who was wait-
ing, sword in hand, to prove his valor and his
patriotism. With all this courage lying around
and going to waste, Dill Macky might reason-
ably have been a trifle more definite. What Dill
meant to convey, pretty well everybody can guess.
But the leader of a meeting of patriots who were
burning to save their country should surely be above
talking in innuendoes. If the High Court, quashed
the conviction of T. M. Slattery, not because of
the law, but because his name was Slattery and
his religion Slattered to keep his name company,
it is much too important a matter for a herfic
patriot with his sword by his side to deal with in
that fashion. If the Court is corrupt; if this
ultimate guardian of the people’s rights and privi-
leges under the Constitution opens the gaol doors
to a Holy Roman and bangs them in the face of a
Protestant; if it inquires what a man’s religion is
first, and gives its decision accordingly, then we
have a scandal absolutely the greatest in the his-
tory of Australian courts. And if Dill
Macky believes these things, what sort of
valorous patriot is lie to merely talk about
them in cloaked words to an excited crowd ?
Let him be definite. Let him prove himself the
fearless patriot, and stand out and make openly
the charges which he has conveyed by miserable
hints and suggestions. Or, if he won’t do that,
let him be branded as a cowardly slanderer, who,
in the pursuit of his wretched insectarian cam-
paign, does not scruple to drag even the highest
Court of the country into the gutter—and, by the
way, is aided by the daily papers in doing so.
The High Commissionership.
One of the first matters to engage the attention of
the new Deakin Cabinet will be the appointment
of a High Commissioner for the Commonwealth
in London —a step to complete the Federal
machinery, which has been far too long delayed,
The lack of a voice to speak for the Australian
people, in a country where many decisions vitally
affecting Australia are come to, has been already
responsible for great material losses, as well
as serious misunderstandings; and if that
lack continues when there call for settle-
ment all the new problems caused by the
uprising of Japan as one of the great military
powers, consequences perilous to Australia, and
disastrous to that “ Empire ” idea which British
politicians cherish, might easily ensue. At present
Australian butter, Australian wood-blocks, and
Australian mutton have representatives in Britain
through the various State Agents-General. But
Australia and its national ideas have none. The
great mass of the British voters, for example,
have no idea of the root meaning of the “White
Australia ” policy and its supreme importance
to our national life. In matters of de-
fence, the Australian view and the Australian
knowledge are not put before Britain, and
that country —partly in consequence—asked for
infantry, instead of mounted rifles, when farm-
burning in Boer-land was the work of the moment,
and insisted upon vetoing the proposal by which
an Australian navy might have been founded —a
proposal which Britain, by an amazingly sudden
change of front, now wants Australia to adopt
immediately. Britain, in its relations with Aus-
tralia, is often in the position of meaning
well, but not knowing, and when it doesn’t know
it is too apt to rely on Horace Tozer for infor-
mation. And that is bad for Britain, and perhaps
worse for Australia. The appointment of a High
Commissioner—if he is the proper person—should
do away with much of that. The Bulletin does
not hesitate to indicate the proper person—the
man who fills most of the requirements, and comes
nearest of any public man offering to the ideal.
B. K. Wise is a good Australian. When the
nation called he was ready to slough off the nar-
rowing bonds- of CoBDEN-ism and come out fear-
lessly as a Federalist. Throughout the heavy
fighting of the Federal campaign and the equally
heavy struggle which the first Ministry had to estab-
lish the machinery of the new Government, Wise
was a notable figure. He is a good democrat and
a good diplomat, and knows the British ruling
folk better than most Australians. For the past
three months he has been holidaying in London,
and has already done something towards modera-
ting the fury of the British press towards Australia.
Probably he would do more in the way of counter-
acting the frenzy of the Stinking Fish organisa-
tion than any other man now in the running for
the ambassadorial position. The one point on
which Wise might be considered open to serious
criticism is that of finance. He has never been
tried, and therefore never proved, as a financial
administrator, though his prompt acceptance and
able advocacy of the Anti-Borrowing policy at last
New South Wales elections shows his capacity at
least for appreciating the obvious—and that is a
capacity which few Australian politicians possess
when it comes to matters of money. Ip any case
the Commonwealth High Commissioner will not
need to be a great financier if the Commonwealth
intends to remain an honest, non-borrowing
Government. If, as The Bulletin devoutly
believes, the time has come when the indebtedness
of Australia is about to be federalised, and then
not further increased, but gradually reduced, there
will be no call for a financial genius in London.
Paying up is a plain, honest policy, calling only
for straightforwardness. It is in the endeavor to
squeeze out another few millions from a reluctant
Cohen, and in the struggle to convince an anxious
and haggard Cohen that there is still room for
another mortgage on top of an already shockingly-
pawned security, that genius of the banking des-
cription would be required in the High Commis-
sioner’s office. And if that sort of genius is
wanted there, it will be a cold, sad day for
Australia.
Climbing Down.
Parson Woolls Rutledge begins to crawl down.
A little while ago he and other Orangemen were
wildly eloquent about an alleged person—no
name given—who got out of the N.S.W. civil
service from some cause not stated, and couldn’t
get back till he turned Catholic. When he
turned Catholic and began to grovel to the Pope,
he was promptly re-appointed to a billet, not
specified, at £1000 a year, commencing his service
at a date not mentioned. Lately there seemed a
prospect of the Assembly inquiring into this
strange matter, so Woolls Rutledge has written
hurriedly to the Telegraph to say that the
person in question, after he turned R.C., was
re-appointed, not immediately, but after a delay
of about six months, at a salary not specified;
that he was raised, after an indefinite period, to
£400 a year; and “has been promoted by the
presentGovernment to a position carrying a salary,
I am told, of about £1000 a year.” This is
not by any means the sort of thing which
one might have expected from the valiant
Woolls Rutledge. In the first place, until there
seemed to be a chance of Parliament inquiring
into the tale, it used to be told in a way that im-
plied that the alleged convert to Rome was ap-
pointed to his £1000 job all at once, but as soon as
an inquiry seemed possible Woolls Rutledge ex-
plains that he first got a mere ordinary job in the
service, and then worked up to £400. And now
Woolls Rutledge says he is “told” that the
awful R.C. convert gets “about £1000.” Seeing
that all civil service salaries can be ascertained by
reference to a very cheap official publication, only
a very sorry coward requires to conceal himself
behind “I am told ” m such a matter. Moreover,
until inquiry seemed probable, the salary of
the debased victim of Romish superstition
used to be a crisp, business-like £1000 a year, and
the sudden shrinkage to “about £1000” —which
may be only £600 —is pathetic. Also, seeing that
the story about the £1000 salary of this alleged
slave to Rome and holy water and such-like
remnants of idolatry, was going round before the
present N.S.W. Ministry took office, it is sad to
find now that it was only since Carruthers came
into pfewer that Mr. Woolls Rutledge is “ told”
the Tnfnion was raised to “about” £1000. The
best thing N,S.W. Assembly can c!o is to sum-
mon Woolls Rutledge and his hesitating tale to
the Bar of House, and ask him for names,
dates, and all other particulars. The charge he
lays is one of direct corruption, and any com-
munity which tries to be politically clean should
inquire into such a charge.
n— + ~
“Regulation 5764” write,:—
A Bill to be introduced to N:S.VV. Parliament-this ses-
sion is the Temporary Officers (Public Service) Bill, of
three short clauses which simply declare that, despite all
the careful provisions of the original P.S. Act, the tem-
porary clerks in three important departments are to be
hereafter permanent, with all the rights and privileges of
permanency. The contention is that some temporaries
have been so long “ temporary ” that it is mere justice to
make them “permanent.” While this may be just to
them, it is far from just to the lower grade men in the
service already
Compare the position of a temporary officer in one of
these favored Departments at, say, 10s. or 12s 6d. a day,
with the ordinary lower division permanent man between
£l5O and £2OO. The last-named was subjected to a com-
petitive exam, before his entrance. Then, before he could
(let £lOO, he passed a second stiff exam. ; and,
before he could get £l5O, another; and he has to
pass yet another before he touches £2CO. The “tem-
porary” man provided for in the Bill, who gene-
rally owed his billet to outside or Ministerial influence,
jumped into the service at over £l5O, having escaped all
the examinations heaped upon the luckless youth who
joined in the regular way. Now he will, in one stride,
obtain senioritj' over many a fellow clerk who has been
toiling up the grades, with poor pay and hard examina-
tions, since 1895. The latter will suddenly find a whole
swarm of men inserted between him and promotion, his
prospects destroyed, and the bargain on which he
entered the service ruthlessly repudiated.
The Bill should at least grade the new “permanent”
men at £l5O or under, and make their further promotion
depend on the same examinations which the men who
were permanent from the first had to go through. The
average “ temporary ” gets 10s. a day, or £156 a year, and
if graded at this, the bulk of the men affected will escape
the examination. And the whole principle of the service
is said to be promotion by exam.
♦
Great Britain has a Parliamentary redistribution
scheme on hand, whereby England is to gain 17
members, Scotland four, and Wales one, while
Ireland is to lose 22. This is putting things more
or less on a population basis, and if England had
been half as anxious to put the House of Commons
on a population basis when the said basis would
have told against England the present proceeding
would be a touching example of honesty. But
during the first half of last century Ireland had
just about half—sometimes much less than half—
the members to which it was justly entitled, and
England was never troubled about honesty and
redistribution in those days. It was because of
this that it was possible to pass the insane law
prohibiting the growth of tobacco in the British
isles ; Ireland is as well suited to the growth of
tobacco as Virginia, and was in a fair way
to make a fortune out of the industry,
when the English importers got a statute
passed whereby the plantations were torn
up and the business prohibited, and it
remains prohibited to this day. Further, it was
largely because Ireland was swindled out of half
the Parliamentary representation to which it was
fairly entitled that the introduction of the Free-
trade system, which finished the ruin of Irish
industry, became possible The bargain made at
the Union as to the share which Ireland was to
have in the Parliament of Great Britain was very
closely adhered to, so long as the bargain was
shamefully and disgracefully against Ireland. Now
Ireland is a miserably depopulated country as the
consequence of English misrule, and the bargain
as to representation has turned against England,
and the English sense of fairness is aroused, and
the Nonconformist conscience can’t sleep at night
through hearing itself yell in its own ear that
justice must be done at all costs.
Missionary Gillan, a son-in-law of the Rev.
John G. Paton— the Grand Old Man of the Ne w
Hebrides mission—is at present touring Victoria
in the interests of the mission ; and, in view of
the repeated efforts being made to interfere with
the operation of the Kanaka Exclusion Act, his
remarks concerning Tommy Tanna are of interest.
Mr. Gillan has been engaged at mission work on
these islands for sixteen years, and should know
what he is talking about. This “ sta ion ”is on the
Urge and populous island of Malekula, which
contains some 8000 natives, of whom about 1000
are more or less Christianised. The certificate of
character which Mr. Gillan gives the islanders
—from whom the bulk of the Queensland
Kanakas are recruited—is something out of the
common. They are, he declares, exceptionally
cruel and brutal, and this cruelty and brutality
are exercised at the expense of their women.
Mercy and kindness are words which are unknown
in their language. They never extend either,
and they never expect them. Cannibalism is
practised, and men have been cooked and eaten
in sight of Mr. Gillan’s own residenee. If
a woman dies, leaving a child too young to
take care of itself, the child is buried—alive—■
with its mother. Old men and women unable to
look after themselves are also buried alive. Mr.
Gillan knows of one case where a man was buried
alive three times. On two occasions he succeeded
in scrambling out of the grave ; but the third time
he stayed under. The islanders who return from
Queensland bring rifles—the deadly-speaking
Winchester for preference:—with them, and they
are continually shooting. Some of them, it is
incidentally added, are very good shots. Mr.
Gillan, like all the experienced New Hebrides
missionaries, is a strong opponent of the Kanaka
trade. And these genial, murderous cannibals
are the same gentlemen whom the Kanakaphile
press, and the Tory party generally, wish to
retain in our continent, and who have already, in
many cases, contracted marriages with white
women. Of all the colored heathen rubbish which
the cheap labor party wishes to mix with white
Australia, Tommy Tanna seems about the worst.
—
“ Itan ” writes from Queensland :
The Bulletin’s demand (6/7/’O5) that Horace Tozer, as
a mean and shabby backbiter, should be brought to book
for his slanders of Australia, was answered recently, for a
letter is on the way to the Cold Country from Premier
Morgan, curtly stating “that .your utterances have been
used to the detriment of Australia, and therefore to the
detriment of Queensland.” This is one of the sharpest
rebukes that an Agent-General has yet received, and
every loyal Australian will warmly applaud it.
Well, The Bulletin hopes that it is a loyal Aus-
tralian, and it doesn’t applaud much. Merely to
inform Tozer, in effect, that he must leave off talk-
ing as he has been doing isn’t enough. It does
nothing to disprove Tozer’s miserable falsehoods,
and it leaves Horace free to strike an attitude,
like Moses struck by the rock, as an outspoken
person who told the truth ; and to hold up Premier
Morgan as a person who had to smother the truth
(as represented by Tozer) lest evil deeds should
corne to light, Tozer is distinctly reported to
have said that from £20,000,000 to £40,000,000 of
capital was being withheld from investment in
Australia because of Socialistic legislation. A
peremptory demand for full particulars as to the
amounts which make up this £20,000.000 or
£40,000,000, the persons (with their addresses)
who own it, the industries they would have in-
vested it in but for Socialistic legislation, and the
particular features or items' of Socialistic legisla-
tion that seared them off, would have enabled
Morgan to discharge Tozer as a dbhvicted slan-
derer. Anything short of a demand for full par-
(iculars leaves Tozer free to pound his shirt-front
and say, “ I suffer for the Truth’s sake.”
»
People who want to see Arbitration Courts on
the M.L. model replaced by Wages Boards on the
Victorian model are invited to think hard over a.
small Melbourne incident of the past week or so.
A Wages Board had fixed a minimum wage for
pipemakers. The men thought they were an
extra good lot and worth jnore than the minimum ;
so they struck. And under the Wages Board sys-
tem they had every right to strike. They are
under no obligation not to strike. They have
entered into no bond, The Wages Board system,
which some numskulls have been lately booming
in N.S.W. as part of the campaign against the
Arbitration Act, gives neither employers nor pub-


IS YOUR FARM SECURE?
|| n you die, who will have the Farm ?
Your Family or the Mortgagee ?
An Equitable Endowment will Keep the Farm in Your Family.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
vl' .
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney
(or Nearest Branch of the Society).
Please send me particulars of
Endowment.
an Equitable
I was born
Earns
Address ...
m
m
cere.
nSbacco
% (Navy Cut.)
CVCRY TIME •
on account of its natural
aromatic flavour.
GALL-AHER L 7? BELFAST- 6£LONG TO N° TRUST off CPMSUjIL
he any assurance, therefore, of industrial peace.
The employer is simply debarred from paying less
than a certain minimum, and gets no substantial
benefits in return. The Arbitration /vet, on the
other hand, while it fixes wages in much the same
way, also demands from the workmen a bond that
they will continue peacefully at their work.
Compared with that, the Wages Board system is
lop-sided and ineffective.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Wav to Kenmare.”
Theatre Royal “ The Midnight Mail.”
Criterion “ The Earl and the Girl.”
Palace The Great Thurston.
Queen’s Hall New Folly Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Walls of Jericho.”
Her Majesty’s “Trilby.”
Theatre Royal “Woman and Wine.”
Opera House George Fuller Golden.
“The French Maid’’(three nights)
“The Way to Kenmare,” at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), offers Andrew Mack a new opportunity
to interrupt a crude and conventional melodrama
with four polished and unconventional melodies;
and if he interrupted it with six melodies, there
would still be not quite enough melody and a little
too much melodrama. The story is old and
frayed, and green With age and blarney. The
Earl of Kenmare’s younger son is suspected of
having married a peasant, and Mack is the conse-
quence. The only record of the marriage perform-
ance was in the village church, and that has been
burned; and it was only after this disaster that
the proud Kenmare thought of interesting himself
in the question whether his son’s son was his
heir or only a Kenmare in a casual way of
speaking. Mack, of course, as a good Ameri-
can, doesn’t want an earldom; but, learning
that suspicions have fallen upon his mother’s
“good name,” by reason of the fire afore-
said having licked up the only record of her
wedding. Mack has no alternative but to put his
feelings in his pocket and battle his way to the
peerage. And that is “ the way to Kenmare.”
The necessary love incident (Mack is an Irishman)
is supplied by making a villain out of another
claimant to the Kenmare bogs, and sending the
two of them after the same girl. Mack wins her
in the end. The actor who gets the biggest salary
always has to.
* • • •
The yarn is rugged and unconvincing, and
the incidental happenings are less convincing even
than the principal narrative. In a desperate deci-
sion to pair off the couples before the curtain falls,
the effects wander off on to the fringe of burlesque.
And neither Andrew Mack nor his co. does much
to make the story seem true. Mack has dangerous
gifts of fluency and ease and breeze and confidence,
which lead him on to “gagging.” Thus, in the
critical scene, when the light goes out, and the
girl, for whom the sentimental young man has been
out forlo years earning a gold-mine, doesn't recog-
nise him, he acts as no young man in similar
circumstances could ever be expected to act.
True, the real young man would be an awful bore,
while Mack is a cheerful circumstance who keeps
the house laughing ; and the entire performance
is built on the same lines. As for the songs, how-
ever, “The Rose of Kenmare” is probably the
best which Mack has favored Sydney with —and
that is saying a lot.
* * * «
The support is, on the whole, better than
it was in “ Tom Moore,” though the ancient
Earl (who doesn’t look half ancient enough to be
Mack’s grand-dad) isn’t calculated to increase the
popularity of the peerage. Mrs. Malone of the
earlier piece is Mrs. Maloney in this, and is as
satisfactory with the “y ” as without it. There
are two excellent little character studies, one of a
jaunting-car driver, the other of a hunted, half-
witted old Irishman who, after all, has saved the
precious paper from the Kenmare fire and rescued
the Kenmare honor at the same time. A humor-
ous Dutchman and an extravagant Irish pub.-
keeper; a fairly satisfactory heroine; and a
thunderstorm in which some first-class cloud
effects are introduced may also be mentioned.
There was on the opening night a house packed in
every part, and it gave Mack and his players the
heartiest sort of welcome.
***.'*
John F. Sheridan is a busy man these
times. By day he is putting the finishing touches
on “ The Earl and the Girl,” which as much of
Australia as Sydney Criterion can hold will have
the first chance of seeing next Saturday evening ;
by night he is pursuing a third husband for the
Widow O’Brien and keeping an already mixed
family in the way it should go. Between times he
is picking doubles that win. Over the Widow
O’Brien only a tear of regret can be shed. The
giddy old rustler is still herself, only a trifle more
incoherent than she was in her younger days ; but
as for the rest, the fact that they are the rag
pushed into the broken pane in the window until
the glazier can arrive with something more
elaborate is painfully apparent. “The Earl and
the Girl” is John F.’s trump card ; wherefore he
has spent all the available time in polishing up
that gay and giddy couple, and has let the Widow
live a week on the memory of her old triumphs.
It is rough on the Widow, but it should be good
for the Girl.
*# * *
“The Midnight Mail,” staged at Sydney
Royal on Saturday night, before a sardine-
packed a.udienee that steamed with heat and
appreciation, is not —unhappily—of the “ Face
at the Window” type, in which horror grins
through the mask of farce. It is a quite
serious, conventional melodrama, in which the
probabilities are fairly well observed, a,nd there
is no reason for tortured Coincidence to shriek
in protest. Humor of a robust sort luxuriates
without running riot, and there isimpressed a moral
lesson as to the curse of drink and the evils of bad
company. Altogether it is the sort of play which
goes straight to the heart of the robust bottle-oh-
in the gallery, who, when he’s done a-jumping on-
the police, loves to lie a-basking in the light of a
great Moral Lesson ; and it appeals with earnest-
ness to the affections of the young man in the re-
served stalls, who is contemplating matrimony, and
has his best girl with him. and his hair elegantly
plastered in Corinthian convolutions on his scanty
forehead. In short, “The Midnight Mail ” makes
a sure, popular appeal at 35., 2s. and Is., and that
is manager Anderson’s purpose in life. The stage
carpentering is excellent, and the chief sensational
scene—the attempted wreck or robbery of the
midnight mail—well carried out.
* * * *
About the only notable opportunity given
by the Midnight Mail to the company falls to
Bert Bailey as Billy Brewer, half a clown and
half a villain, whose drunken sententiousness
adorns his rascality as a pumpkin vine does a
rubbish heap. Mr. Bailey as a comedian is often
tiresome ; in this part he shows a good capacity as
a character actor. Miss Eugenie Duggan gives a
forceful reading of a traditional heroine, and
Misses Ada Guildford and Ida Gresham do very
well in smaller parts. Among the men George
Cross, as a hero who is virtuous when he is sober,
but is not always sober, and C. R. Stanford do
best with the little fat that is left after B. Bailey
has had his fill.
** * *
The name of F. M. Clark still hangs in
letters of fire upon the outer wall of Queen’s Hall,
Sydney; and, within, the successors of the old
Silk-stockings Co. are proving that all the shape-
liness and sprightliness didn’t belong to their
mothers.
** * *
Sydney Palace re-opens on July 22 with
“The great Thurston” (management Edwin
Geach). Thurston is said to be something very
special in the way of magicians, and Sydney
hasn’t seen a magician of note since the days of
Dante.
*■ * * *
Lingard’s Wonderland a moral and
amusing show which is designed to tickle chil-
dren, grown-up and otherwise—opens at the Elite
Hall, Queen Victoria Markets, Sydney, on
Saturday.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli crushes only lOclwt. at
E resent. The supply of specimen stone discovered
y manager Rickards when last he drove north
seems about exhausted, and until he can strike a
new make the large dividends paid last year must
show a severe shrinkage. Leo Dryden, who was
relied upon to sweeten the bullion returns, turns
out only a moderate success, even with the liberal
help of the limelight. Evidently to fill up with
and keep the battery running fulitime, two young
men have been put on, in very modest type, to
sing “ Excelsior ” ; and though they might be over-
looked sometimes, just at present they show up well
in their rather dull surroundings. Better things,
however, are promised for next week, when
Cruickshank will arrive with Milo, the substantial
vision of beauty.
** * *
The second Saturday night of “Beauty
and the Barge ” was another crowded occasion at
Melbourne Princess’s, when the house roared more
spontaneously than it had laughed a week earlier.
Nevertheless the joke of W. W. Jacobs is about to
be withdrawn to make way for “ The Walls of
Jericho.” The good points of the present per-
formance improve on acquaintance. Captain
Barley. Mrs. Baldwin, Mrs. Porter (the raddled,
peroxided peri of the pub), Tom Codd, who per-
forms an extravagant fit of indisposition for
£5; likewise the ingenuous Ethel and her
sudden young man these are characters
who invite credence. The pantomimic spouse
of Mrs. Porter (played by John Paulton)
simply capers around in Open defiance of proba-
bility, whilst the paternal Majah and his polite
attendants are the tamest creatures of fiction.
There is nothing to be said for the Major’s party,
except that they appear Wet when they come in
out of the alleged rain, “ The Walls of Jericho,”
due on Saturday, is a substantial play, and in this
second production of the Brough-Flemming man-
agement Herbert Flemming will face a Melbourne
audience again after a 13 years’ disappearance.
Also, Miss Beatrice Day will come under local
observation for the first time.
*& * *
The Nance O’Neil season has caught a
chill at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, otherwise
“Ingomar” would have been favorably received
by a much larger audience last Saturday. “In-
gomar ” is a quaint old r omance that comes easy
to any crowd of actors who cart flourish their arms
and are not disposed to hide their voices under a
bushel. The citizens of Massilia date back to a
misty period when there probably wasn’t
much difference in tone between a bare-
legged son of culture and an outer bar-
barian. In Miss Maria Lovell’s play the
barbarians are all bachelors as far as the
dialogue explains them—loud, hairy bachelors who
shake gigantic dice in a primitive soup-tureen and
stake strange articles of wearing apparel upon the
hazard of the throw. The Massilians are likewise
noisy and weird-looking in the male sex, but they
have a female population on haild, and the nicest
young citizeness rushes forth into the adjacent
forest where the barbarians come from, and offers
to be their slave in lieu of her captured father.
The aged parent is so absurdly useless that the
chief barbarian falls in with Parthenia’s proposal,
and is lost. Henceforth he is the captive and she
the benevolent despot who washes his pannikin
and prepares him for matrimony. Everybody
should see “Ingomar” once. It belongs to a
dwindling collection of dramatic curios.
Miss Nance O’Neil as Parthenia, hand-
some, earnest, not very graceful in gesture or
dainty in speech, needs a thoroughgoing Ingoma
to provide a sufficient contrast, and she gets him m
John Glendinning. The rest of the company
don't matter much ; where they do matter tneie is
little to complain of. Well staged and vigorously
acted, “ Ingomar ” should gather patronage as it
rolls along for its six nights. On baturciay a
revival of “ Trilby ” will he submitted to the iick.e
populace, with Miss 0 Neil as the hypnotised
spinster who “possessed all the virtues except the
one that plays the name-part,” and Gaston Mer-
vale as the Hebrew musician who looked into her
mouth and saw a fortune in the dome thereof.
## * *
At Melbourne Royal a change of bill will
shortly overtake the chronic inebriate who fishes
for blue cod and pink eels in “ The Flood Tide.
Bland Holt’s next intention is “Woman and
Wine,” a warm spectacular drama which lives up
to its title every time it is revived. A Japanese
ballet in the 3rd act is one of its gaudiest features,
and this time the Bicknells are to introduce their
whirlwind dancing into the ballet.
* * *
Three performances of “The French
Maid” by The Players, with Williamson’s
scenery, will provide employment for a choice
assortment of amateur legs at the Bijou this week.
The company, trained by Gregan M‘Mahon,
gets its trial gallop to-night (Thursday). Miss
Irene Dillon—who is an accomplished dancer,
anyhow—is cast for the name-part.
« * *- *
At Melbourne Town Hall, a few extra
appearances of the Westminster Glee Party will
conclude on Saturday night, and another Marshall
Hall concert is to happen in the afternoon. Also,
Watkin Mills and his quartet are booked for three
more nights in the near future.
*& # *
At the Opera House a bright programme
last week hardly suited the taste of some people,
who like much salt with their vaudeville. George
Fuller Golden is particularly acceptable to the
other people. He gives new humor and expres-
sion to a familiar form of entertainment, dropping
his best jokes with studied negligence in prefer-
ence to hurling them at his audience’s head.
Nothing is overdone or underdone. His gentle
mimicry of the orthodox parson would win a
gracious smile from the Bishop of Melbourne if
that dignified eurer of souls could be tempted into
Rickards’. Nat Travers is the latest re-arrival,
and Nathaniel, perhaps, supplies the necessary
dash of salt.
** * #
. Yan Biene appeared at Adelaide Royal for
four nights, and every evening of the lot was wet.
Business was only moderate, and so was the play,
but it was well acted. Marie Rignold scored
greatly as the wicked Duchess, and the ’cellist
with the Wilson Barrett head showed himself
actor as well as musician. Julius Knight, after
completing his convalescent period in Adelaide,
has started again as Beaucaire, and the British
aristocracy is now seen nightly to cheat at cards,
and generally to act as punching-bag for a casual
Frenchman, to the apparent delight of the audi-
ence. Frank Clark is running his “Australian
show with Australian artists ” at the Tivoli on a
sixpenny basis (reserved stalls 25.), and appears in
illustrated ballads himself.
ifc * * *
This passionate communication from
“ Yarrab ” has just arrived, and has had water
poured over it to mitigate the fervor of the com-
bustion :
Anent Ibsen and a criticism from Munsey’s Magazine
(B. 6/7/’O5). It would seem as though the American
monthly, taking an incident and enlarging upon it, would
endeavor to make the generic subservient to one small
detail. Therein the whole Ibsen theme is missed. Essen-
tially a symbolist, his very vividness in that respect oft
causes him to lose beauty of expression in his fixed de-
termination to achieve perfection in the moulding of his
characters. His dramas reflect, mirror-like, the whole of
Nature in its multitudinous phases, its passions and
emotions, its fallacies and facts. Intensely human, this
fighting- Norwegian has striven —and no modern drama-
tist has approximated him in knowledge of the mundane
temperament—to preserve the logical sequence of our
creation. “The stage,” he says, “ should be like a room
with one wall down ’’—through which w r e can view the
picture. Thus are all his pieces character-symphonies,
one unit fitting into the other, each and the whole sym-
bolised. He is to the drama what Wagner is to music,
and, like the Great Teuton, he had to fight for his exist-
ence ; but the strength, the grimness, and the force of
the man triumphed. Though he is best known for his
social dramas—those with a didactically rebellious theme
—he is also dear to the lover of Nature by reason of his
romantic and historical plays, all of which throb with the
heart beats of Nature. A great French writer truly
summed him up as “ the greatest psychological dramatist
since Racine. Still, tht idealogical factor is, perhaps, the
summum bonum of the Ibsen play ; the symbols are classi-
fied, and the logical determination arrived at; and, natu-
rally sceptical and polemic, he delves deep into the social
code and intensely battles with the conservative idea.
Retribution is an uncertain beast, but it
generally catches up with a man some time or
other. It has reached J. W. M‘Cay rather earlier
than usual. He was hounded out of State poli-
tics on account of his honorable pro-Boer senti-
ments; but, unable to resist the temptation of
office, he forswore his Protectionist principles,
and joined the very men who had “ pro-Boered ”
him out-of State politics. He lost his principles
when he joined Reid, and now Reid has brought
down on him a whole barrow-load of trouble.
That thinnest of all Reid’s political tricks, the
Grov.-General’s speech, mentioned but one mea-
sure, and that one promised to rob M‘Cay of his
electorate, for there is no room for Corinella on the
new electoral map. And the result of the speech
has robbed him of office and everything else.
The Wild Cat Column.
Premier Morgan (Q.) says he is not going to get
deeper into debt, and that as the only way of providing-
necessary public works he proposes to sell State lands.
The old Philp crowd also sold the lands, but it didn’t build
any works with the proceeds ; it used them as revenue,
and at the same time borrowed from Cohen all that Cohen
would lend. Morgan’s proposal is, at least, better than
that. The sale of lands is pretty certain to lead to
trouble by-and-bye; but, seeing that the old crowd
heaped on Queensland the greatest debt per head on
earth, and loaded the State with the world’s cham-
pion interest bill per head, it is hard work to avoid
trouble of some kind. In the past 12 months
the whole revenue, including land sales, only amounted
to £3,595,399, and Cohen called for £1,547,091 of that, or
over 43 per cent, of the total. Moreover, much more than
half of the greatest debt on earth isn’t earning interest.
In the past year, when the railways had an unusually
good time, they earned only £596,483 over working
expenses; harbor dues, &c., brought in gross £18,511;
loans to local bodies, &c., probably another £ll,OOO. So
far as can be traced, nothing else in which the greatest
debt on earth has been sunk earns anything. With
£1,547,091 of interest to pay, the loan undertak-
ings therefore earned in an unusually good year
£625,000. In the previous year they earned (Oogh-
lan’s figures) only £587,928. Last year £922,000
of interest had to be paid out of taxation—l2s.
in every £ of interest on the huge debt which the old
crowd fastened on to the country. Further, the old
crowd sold land wholesale, and rioted with the proceeds,
and left its successors less rent to collect. Now the new
crowd has to face that situation.
All the same, if Queensland can’t walk straight,
on account of the sins of its fathers, it ought to walk as
little crooked as possible ; and, if land must be sold, the
proceeds should be passed into a Public Works Fund. The
purchase-money isn’t revenue; it is capital; and the
accountant who mixes revenue and capital is on the road
to ruin. Provided that the land assets are merely ex-
changed for railway assets, and not used to pay current
expenses and to save taxes and fair charges for services,
the roughest edge of land sales is smoothed off. There
will still be other rough edges, but the worst of them can
also be smoothed off with a progressive land-tax. The
first absolutely necessary thing is to establish the Public
Works Fund, and to earmark for it the entire proceeds of
land sales.
Australian States, as a rule, juggle with land
revenue, and distinguish as little as possible between
proceeds of sales and rental receipts. Latest and most
complete information on this point is published by the
Westralian Statist in that State’s “Statistical Register”
for 1903. Figures for all States are, on that authority
Sales. Rents.
N.S. Wales .. £1,100,549 £770,142
Victoria .. .. 251,685 104,577
Queensland ~ 258,761 351,519
S. Australia .. 36,723 123,127
Westralia .. 28 399 162,501
Tasmania.. .. 41,319 30,609
Totals .. £1,717,436 £1,542,475
If Queensland continues at this rate, and earmarks every-
penny of land sale money for its Works Fund, it would;
have from this source, at present rates, a quarter million-
a year to spend on works ; and a quarter million will,,
anyhow, spoil the notion that No-more-borrowing means
No-more-progress. Also, to make dead-sure that the-
land shall not be jobbed away too rapidly,,
and that the projected works shall be con-
sidered hard before they are undertaken, and watched,
hard while they are being undertaken, Queensland ought.
to resolutely set itself to put at least £1 into the Works
Fund from revenue for every £1 got from land sales.
Queensland isn’t a heavily-taxed country by any means,,
and it should do this even if it has to increase taxation.
When a concern makes a supreme mess of things, it isn’t,
too much to expect it, when it comes to its senses, to.
make considerable sacrifices in order to recover its posi-
tion and its good name; and Queensland hasn’t done
anything extra in the way of sacrifice so far. A whole lot
of people, in fact, seem to have been a good deal more
concerned about restoring the Queensland National Bank
than the State of Queensland. In 1904 total revenue per
head was for each State:—
Westralia .. .. .. £l5 12 7
N. Territory .. .. .. 13 16 7
N.S. Wales 7 17 2
Queensland .. .. .. 6 18 1
S. Australia .. .. .. 6 17 11
Victoria .. .. .. 6 10
Tasmania .. .. .. 4 16 1
This is exclusive of local government taxation. Queens-
land and S. Australia have about an equal system of local
government; and yet, though S. Australia never got into
such a bog as Queensland is in, and though the propor-
tion of wage-earning males in Queensland is much higher
than in S. Australia, yet the two States are practically on
the same mark in the matter of taxation per head. It is
up to Queensland to give over thinking of itself as a State
out of which the last ounce is being already taken.
• * • *
The Queensland National Bank, from its re-
arrangement in 1897 :
Repaid Repaid Total
Gross Written Govern- Private Re-
Profits. Off. ment. Depos’rs. serves
Dec., 1897.. £16,635 £8,635 £2OOO £4OOO £2,000
June, 1898.. 17,795 8,795 2250 4500 4,2E0
Dec., 1898.. 21,255 12,255 2250 4500 6,500
June, 1899.. 23,879 13,879 2500 5000 9,000
Dec., 1899.. 27,341 15,341 3000 6000 12,000
June, 1900.. 27,447 15,447 3000 6000 15,000
Dec., 1900.. 27,712 15,712 3000 6000 18,000
June, 1901.. 28,350 16,350 3000 6000 21,000
Dec., 1901.. 28,745 16,745 3000 6000 24,000
June, 1902.. 25,605 13,605 3000 6000 27,000
Dec., 1902.. 22,329 10,329 3000 6000 30,000
June, 1903.. 21,660 9,660 3000 6000 33,000
Dec., 1903.. 21,777 9,777 3000 6000 36,000
June, 1904.. 21,822 9,822 3000 6000 39,000
Dec., 1904.. 21,823 9,823 9000 42,000
June, 1905.. 22,009 10,009 9000 45,000
The Q.N. is beginning to “take notice ’ again; and,
instead of people wanting to be paid for taking its shares,
some have been buying them up (buyers at present, 3s.)—
as a sort of old-age pension, most of tnem explain,
though divs. are now possible within, say, nine years. '
Profits, as published, are too uniform to seem real, and '
the chances are that some writing-down is being dqne
inside. The Q.N. has had a good share of the recent pros-
perity of the Darling Downs and some other districts/and
yet there isn’t much sign of it in the published accounts ;
but what size the sink is into which these probable writings-
off are being turned, Heaven only knows. In 1897 t]he bank:,
had £4,604,6f5 of overdrawn accounts, in addition to bills,.
&c., and £742,835 of “ private ledger accounts,” the latter
explained as debts in suspense pending realisation. These
“ private ledger ” debts have been reduced to., £453,664 —
by £289,171, that is—partly by realisation no doubt;
partly by writing-down probably. The whole declared
writing-s-off have amounted to £196,184, which has had to
cover the overdrafts as well as all the other ricketty


Tramways for Mines.
CHEAP HAULAGE
IF INTERESTED, write
often Means the Difference between
Dividends and Liquidation.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop., Ltd.
64 PITT=ST., SYDNEY. Helbourne Office: 504 Little Collins-street.
A. E. LEPL AS TRIER, Manager.
Antimony Ore
Wanted for Gash.
Address Offers or Particulars to
H.W., Melbourne Office of ‘The Bulletin/
369 Collins Street.
Prospectors and others are requested to forward
samples of Asbestos and full particulars to Herbert
Soanes, the only Asbestos Specialist in Australasia.
Reports made and sales negotiated. Address: Herbert
Soanes, Asbestos Specialist, Box 202, P. 0., Perth, W.A.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
The electric plant of the Federal Palace Hotel,
corner Collms and King-streets, Melbourne, furnishes a
good example of a thoroughly successful electric installa-
tion, in technical as well as in commercial respects. This
plant generates all electric current required for the hotel
lighting ; it consists of a twenty horse-power gas-engine
belted to a “ Ganz ” twelve kilowatts dynamo, a “ Ganz ”
switch-board containing all the measuring and controlling
instruments, and a storage battery with 62 cells. The
generating machinery runs continually during the day'
time at its full capacity and highest efficiency, the surplus
current being stored into the battery ; the latter supplies
all necessary electricity required during the night; and it
forms also a substantial reserve in case of accidents.
Compared with the previous method of working, a saving
of £4OO per annum has been effected by this plant, the
contractors for which were the Austral Otis Engineering
Company, Ltd., corner Hanah and Kavanagh-streets,
South Melbourne, as sole Australian agents for Ganz and
Budapest, Hungary.*
* * # •
The Broken Hill Proprietary Block 14 Co. has
finally closed its extensive smelting and ore-reduction
works at Port Adelaide, and has placed the whole of the
machinery and plant in the hands of Messrs. Butterworth
Handcoek and Co., Port Adelaide, for private sale. The
list covers engines, boilers, steam-pumps, lifts, elevators,
crusher, brick-making machines, weigh-bridges, ore
scales, iron chimneys, shafting, pulleys, piping, and a lot
of sundries. A post card to that firm will ensure an
extended catalogue by return of post.*
■k m m w
The Policy-Holder (Manchester) J uly 27,1904,
writes with regard to the last Annual Report of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited There
are a number of satisfactory features about the report
now presented, for the premium income and funds show a
satisfactory increase, whilst the claims are smaller and the
rate of interest realised has been the same as in 1902.*
• * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all- types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 600 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
• * * •-
Charters Towers. — Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange! for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
The Wilfley Slime Table which has been in
operation on the Ivanhoe Gold Mines for some months
past has been giving extremely' good results. Mr. H. T
Brett, Metallurgist of the Ivanhoe Gold Corporation, in an
article contributed to the March number of the Chamber
of Mines Journal, W.A., gives particulars of the savings
made, and states that the introduction of the Wilfley
Slime Table will be of great service in treating the low-
grade sulphide ores of the field. Since the future of
Kalgoorlie is so intimately bound up with the most
economical solution of this sulphide problem, this
assurance from Mr. Brett is a most important matter.
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne, are
sole manufacturers for Australasia of this table.*
■k it *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 y'ears without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is"manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
■* * * *
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more —alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 2500b.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
are also putting down “ Hornsby ” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay’-street, Sydney', and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
■***■*
Assay Balance, Ainsworth’s No. 1 special, 5 inch
beam, agate knife edges and bearings etc., sensibility
l/200th = 0.005 milligramme = l/13000th grain. Price £5O.
Large stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. H. B. SILBERBERG and Co., 443
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
» * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they' are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manaerer.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * » *
Oroya-Brown Hill, Kalgoorlie, was estimated
to have 208,900 tons of 39 - Bdwt. ore in reserve on January
Ist, but results have not borne this out. May return
only averaged 28’7dwt. It has been remarked os a
peculiar thing about last year’s accounts that nothing is
charged against development. But that is easily ex-
plained—no development was done. On Brown Hill
leases it was proved years ago that no pay ore existed
below No. 5 level, and all ore above that level of payable
grade was worked out long ago. A lot of unpayable ore was
left in stopes, and, since acquisition of Oroya blocks, has
being mixed with Oroya rich ore to maintain tonnage.
All the pay pipe in Oroya north block has been rooted out
except about 40ft. adjoining Brown Hill boundary. When
that is depleted there will be a collapse. The pipe was
developed and depleted simultaneously by incline winzes
of about one in four, which practically stoped out the
whole pipe. It looks as if mana>nnent’s intention is to
pig-root balance of pay shoot in Oroya, and it is probably
time to get in out of the wet. Of course, there is Oroya
south block, but that contains only low-grade ore in bulk.
Future developments should be worth watching.
DHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor Oil,
* Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, Shellac, “Sun
Brand ” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro-
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive,
tag'” Correspondence Invited.
HY. MARKWALD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle
Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, Christchurch.
assets which the old spendthrift crowd loaded this bank
with, and it seems probable that the hank has done more
than this. If it hasn’t, or if the assets haven’t recovered
wonderfully, the idea of paying l a div. even eight years
hence ought to have been hit hard.
These figures give, however, some idea of how
things are moving :
June, 1904. June, 1905. Increases.
New private deposits ..£1,109,007 £1,436,520 £327,513
New Govt, deposits .. 515,466 639,157 123,691
Bills in circulation, &c. 736,661 748,896 12,235
Liquid assets .. .. 1,583,071 2,041,286 458,215
Decreases.
Advances, &c. .. .. 5,070,979 5,015,578 65,401
Premises 275,796 275,456 340
The large increase in deposits is a pretty good sign of
returning confidence in the Q.N.' For many years back
Queensland has been steadily pouring its money into
banks with head-offices outside Queensland —often outside
Australia. Probably the fact that the Q.N. didn’t reduce
its deposit-rates recently is also turning 1 the scale a little
in its favor. Anyhow, there has been a remarkable in-
crease of deposits ; but there hasn’t been finy increase of
advances to make up for it and earn the extra interest
with. Liquid assets represent as much as 72 p.c. of all
new liabilities to the public ; so the bank will probably be
glad to see some good securities come into the premises.
The disclosed profits on shareholders’ funds—capital
(£413,226) and reserves—have moved lately this way :
Dec., 1901 .. £l3 411 p.c. Dec., 1903 .. £9 15 3 p.c.
June, 1902 .. 11 14 4 „ June, 1904 .. 914 4 „
Dec., 1902 .. 10 3 0 „ Dec., 1904 .. 913 0 „
June, 1903 .. 915 6,, June, 1905 .. 9IS 5 „
But it has to be remembered that the bank has £1,377,563
of Government money at £2 12s. 6d. per cent., and
£942,874 of old depositors’ money carrying no interest at
all. If the former carried an extra 1 per cent., and the
latter only carried 3 per cent., they would call for £42,061
a year, which would just about wipe present reported
profits out, and leave the earnings at freezing point, or
thereabouts.
As to the progress made in removing the
ancient dead-horse from the Q.N.’s premises:—
1897. June, 1905. Reduction.
Government deposits
(reconstructed) .. £1,833,327 £1,377,563 £455,764
Interminable stock
(debt to old deposi-
tors) 3,116,621 3,116,621 Nil
Debt to old depositors
payable out of profits 1,038,874 942,874 96,000
Due to Bank (debts in
suspense) .. .. 742,835 453,664 289,171
The debt to old depositors, the third item above, is ex-
tinguishable only out of profits ; and when half the debt
to the State is paid, 3£ per cent. div. may be declared,
according to the very newest arrangement. But, while
that makes things a bit worse for these old depositors,
they are getting £9OOO a half-year, which is twice as
much as they formerly got, so the newest arrangement
has been accepted without any kicking. Also the State is
getting £86,097 per half-year instead of £3OOO. No
doubt, with these payments to make, the bank will
have to maintain a heavy reserve of liquid assets, to
draw on when it can’t conveniently realise securities ;
at the same time this idea of paying a tidy sum off year
by year, instead of postponing the process fora number
of years and then allowing the whole trouble to drop in
at once, is to be commended. The old crowd was a whale
for postponing trouble ; the new arrangement represents
the new idea of humping some of the trouble ourselves,
and not passing the whole of it on to the infant to wrestle
with by-and-bve.
» * * *
Queensland Trade Commissioner Jones has se-
cured for Queensland millers the tender for flour for the
British navy in the China seas. America had previously
long held the contract.
* * • *
The Bank of North Queensland:—
Recovered Dividend,
from Debts Total 2£ p.c., Added
previously Re- and to Re- Re-
Written venue. Div. serves, serves.
Profits. Off. Tax.
June,’99.. £1675 £BBl £2556 £2556 £4,622
Dec., ’99.. 2700 2700 £1313 1387 6,009
June,’oo.. 2557 901 3458 1313 2145 8,154
Dec., ’OO.. 2368 1540 3908 1313 2595 10,749
June,’ol.. 2424 2424 1313 1111 11,860
Dec., ’Ol.. 2538 2536 1313 1223 13,083
June,’o2.. 2038 2038 1313 725 13,808
Dec., ’02.. 2007 680 2687 1313 1374 15,182
June,’o3.. 2153 2153 1313 840 16,022
Dec., ’03.. 2408 2408 1313 1095 17,117
June,’o4.. 2251 2251 1313 933 18,055
Dec., ’04.. 2421 2421 1313 110 S 19,163
June,’os.. 2262 2262 1325 937 20,100
On account of its up-north agricultural connection, this
bank has an “off season,” when the gentleman who is
alleged to want the Kanaka is living on his last year’s
crop, and doesn’t come along for advances to any great
extent; and, for an “ off season,” the past half-year has
been a bit better than the recent average. But the
figures, like those of most other banks, show generally
that the country has for once been having a rather better
time than the banks. Compared with the corresponding
part of 1904, advances have jn this case certainly moved
up a trifle, but deposits have moved up still more, with
the result that the bank has £21,500 more liquid assets
waiting for somebody to borrow. The position compares
with that of 12 months back in this way :
June, 1904. June, 1905. Increases.
Deposits .. .. £270,193 £300,056 £29,863
Bills payable, &c. .. 58,666 61,423 2,757
Liquid assets .. .. 110,155 131,655 21,500
Advances .. .. 312,829 325,486 12,657
Premises .. .. 25,243 25,763 520
The liquid assets are equal to nearly 37 per cent, of all
liabilities to the public—probably a good deal larger pro-
Sortion than safety demands. Of the entire assets share-
olders’ funds represent 25 per cent. Securities against
advances would have to depreciate 37 per cent, before
shareholders’ funds would disappear and the public’s
deposits, &c., would be affected, which is an unusually
strong position from a depositor’s point of view. Net
profits are, however, comparatively low ; on shareholders’
funds the rate per annum has recently been :
June, 1902 ..£3 12 1 p.c. June, 1904 ..£3 16 11 p.c.
Dec., 1902 .. 313 7 „ Dec., 1904 .. 4 2 0 „
June, 1903 .. 314 8 „ June, 1905 .. 316 0 „
Dec., 1903 .. 4 3 0 „
The expenses of running a small business with numerous
branches must be relatively high ; and this, and the large
proportion of liquid assets maintained, account for the
smallness of the figures. It earns good money on the
business which it does, but it pays an extra large propor-
tion of that money away in pursuing the small account
in scattered places where the expenses are necessarily
high. The dividend is among the smallest paid by Aus-
tralian banks ; on the other hand, the fact that it
absorbs but 60 per cent, of the profits, the other 40 per
cent, being laid by, is evidence of prudent management.
* * * *
The Trustees, Executors, and Agency Co.
(Melbourne): —
Added
Written to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1898.. £1722 5 p.c. =£lsoo £222 £45,198
Dec., 1898.. 1101 5 „ „ 1500 £42,000 2,799
June, 1899.. 1954 5 „ „ 1500 454 3,253
Dec., 1899.. 2693 5,. „ 2250 443 3,696
June, 1900.. 3971 5„ „ 2250 17211 „ 01 _
A.D. and M. Bank Shares Written Up 1400 / b ,Bi7
Dec., 1900.. 3746 5„ „ 2250 1496 8,313
June, 1901.. 2795 5„ „ 2250 545 8,858
Dec., 1901.. 2783 5„ „ 2250 533 9,391
June, 1902.. 2436 5,, ~ 2250 186 9,577
Dec., 1902.. 3168 5„ „ 2250 918 10,495
June, 1903.. 3699 6,, ~ 3150 549 11,044
Dec., 1903.. 3226 5„ „ 2250 976 12,020
June, 1904.. 5352 5„ „ 2250 3102 15,122
Dec., 1904.. 3632 5,, „ 2250 300 1082 16,204
June, 1905.. 3768 5,, ~ 2250 1518 17,722
A very desirable result ot some recent proceedings is seen
in the directors’ statement that a record number of
estates and trusts have been placed under the co.’s
control during the half-year. This co. has a paid capital
of £90,000, and shareholders are liable for a further
£210,000; and that is a tolerably solid guarantee of
honesty—anyway, that clients will not suffer through
anybody’s dishonesty. Further, the Trustee Co. isn’t
formed for a day or a year ; it proposes to go on being a
trustee indefinitely, and that is a further guarantee of
straight-dealing. Also it publishes its balance-sheets,
which is some additional g uarantee. And on top of all this
is the fact that its business is to be a trustee ; and
that means, or ought to mean, some skill in a
business which, for some extraordinary reason,
had fallen into the hands of amateurs. When
it hadn’t fallen into the hands of a friend of the
family, it had mostly fallen into the hands of the family
solicitor, and in his dual capacity the family solicitor often
made a mess of things. He was and is usually a very good
man to watch somebody else ; but for watching himself
he wasn’t and isn’t invariably to be trusted. The trustee
co. never goes to races, and doesn’t play nap, or take a
trip abroad ; and these are points in its favor. The pro-
gress of this old-established co. is therefore to be noted
with more satisfaction than usual. These further particu-
lars show how it is moving :
June, Dec., June,
1895. 1904. 1905.
Commission, etc £4383 £8,634 £8,909
Interest 2115 807 810
Expenses 5730 5,545 5,685
Profit on Funds, p.c. ..£3 910 £6 18 3 £7 111
Trust Estates .. .. 7,881,720 7,787,043
Expenses p.c. of Trust Es-
tates 2/10 2/11
The co.’s funds are represented mainly by freeholds
£65,000, Vic. Government stock £10,300, Melb. Board of
Works debentures £12,000, and mortgages and fixed
deposits. It has been remarked ■on previous occasions
that the return was small, and it looked as though
some writing-down was called for. Profit and
loss account now, however, shows the old item
“ Co.’s premises ” as “ Rents from offices in
co.’s building not used for co.’s business.” In other
words, co. does not, it seems,, charge itself with rent
for its own office space and pay this rent into the
interest account. This makes the interest return
look a little smaller than it really is. Also it makes the
expense rate look a little smaller than it really is.
But so far as persons interested in trust estates are
concerned, it wouldn’t be a good sign, in any case, if the
co. showed large earnings. They want absolute security
from their trustee ; and that can best be got through that
trustee putting its guarantee mainly in gilt-edged invest-
ments, which is the course this office is adopting with
regard to most of its savings.
* * * »
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co.
(Sydney)
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
Feb., 1899 6 p.c. =£ll2 £2,538 £2,745
„ 1900 £8,788 6 „ „ 304 4,506 £3,978 6,723
April, 1901 320 6 „ „ 855 6,188
June, 1902 2,689 6 „ „ 1,409 1,230 7,468
„ 1903 1,625 6 „ „ 1,306 319 7,787
„ 1904 2,012 6 „ „ 1,335 677 8,'464
„ 1905 4,783 6 „ „ 1,335 1,742 1,706 10,170
The bonus to clients is at the rate of 20 p.c. on amounts
received from them aswool-selling commission, and is paid
to shareholders and non-shareholders alike. Even after
making this rebate and paying a reasonable 6 p.c. divid-
end, the profits allow a very substantial addition to re-
serves, which have already reached nearly 50 p.c. of the
capital (£22,292). The financial position shows generally
a solid improvement. Twelve months ago there were
net overdrafts of £17,181, which have now been reduced
to £9175, or £BOO6 less—partly through increased profits,
partly through reduced outstanding accounts, which
amount to only £5019. After payment of present div.
(half has already been distributed as an interim) and bonus,
the overdraft may show up larger ; still, even then, there
will be an excellent movement the right way. Against
shareholders’ funds and liabilities to the public the co.
holds premises valued at <641!,604. Practically nothing is,
however, written off this ; total charge for depreciation is
£llO, and that has to cover furniture, plant, and every-
thing. This item will need attention. Gross earnings
were £13,167, against £11,558 in 1904 ; yet general work-
ing expenses, which cover everything but directors’ fees
(a very moderate £406), insurance, and rents, amounted
this year to only £6973 against £8136 last year. This
looks like strict economy ; and the Co-op. is the sort of
concern in which part at least of the results come back
to the people whose business the co. looks after.
* * * *
Broken Hill mines are at present employing,
apart from smelting and flux-raising and coke-making,
7343. men, which is the field’s record. In the early ’9o’s a
couple of years showed a larger total, but that included
the smelting works, which had not then been removed
from the mine-leases.
B.H. Junction North’s new manager is T. H.
Palmer, who has been for a brief while assistant to the
general manager of Block 10. It is a tough problem for a
neophyte to tackle. Palmer is Sydney University-
trained—a son of the broking firm which issues a monthly
circular about the imaginary horrors of Watson’s banking
proposals.
* * * *
“Reader” disputes that the B.H. Junction
North magnetic machines have proved a failure: —“The
Junction North plant is a combination of a wet jigging
and vanning plant and a dry magnetic re-treatment plant,
and is quite capable of treating a sufficient quantity to
make the mine pay well, and of making a higher re-
covery of metals than a wet plant alone could make.
Anyhow it could make good profits out of the middle
product, which other Broken Hill mines except the
Central (Sulphide Oorp.) are throwing away. There is
nothing wrong about the Junction North except the
management. The ore reserves are such as the adjoin-
ing North, which has lost through the underlie what the
Junction North has got, must be very jealous of. Very
likely the North would like to snap up this mine as it
did the Victoria, which adjoins, and which at present
promises to become its mainstay, according to the way its
northern shoot is dipping into the property.” But the
fact remains that the plant, even when run by the
engineer of the Australian Metal Co., who designed it,
was not able to show a profit.
* * * *
B.H. Block 14 opens an office in London, and
thus increases the opportunities for gambling in this
stock. Shareholders have also sanctioned the borrowing
of £20,000. With this, and the zinc concentrates, and the
rooting out of what little carbonate ore is left, and the
recent unimportant strike of a patch of rich ore, the co.
should again reach the profit-making stage without grub-
bing into shareholders’ pockets.
* * * *
From Burraga (N.S.W.), where the Lloyd
Copper Co.’s mine is : —“ It is true that the Lloyd Co. had
an overdraft of £12,673 when it held its last meeting ; but
it also bad £29,177 of metal afloat. Don’t know if the
mine is much good, or if the shareholders are likely to get
anything out of it, or what had been drawn against the
metal in transit ; but, anyway, looking at the thing from
a local man’s point of view, I know it is paying away
between £7OOO and £BOOO in wages monthly, and that the
mine is supporting nearly 2000 people. So here’s better
luck to it ! ”
* * * *
Nuggetty Gully, on the old Turon (N.S.W.)
field, has been dug up again. A Sydney co. formerly put
up a good 15-head mill, and in a slap-dash way ran
through dirt whether it was gold-bearing or not; then
sat down dazed ac the natural result, and left some people
waiting to be paid. New concern doesn’t seem to have
enough capital to give the thing a fair trial; battery has
been mortgaged already, and the little that has been
raised on that pawning transaction is being put into very
necessary development work.
* * • •
Chief N.S.W. Inspector of Mines Jacquet’s un-
reserved report that Mt. Boppy auriferous deposit is an
“ inverted saddle reef ” opens up an interesting problem
for mining: men. Experts like Frecheville and Clemes,
both men who carried large salaries, as well as the repu-
tation of John Taylor and Sons, after Spending weeks
examining Mt. Boppy for the London holders, just as un-
reservedly designated it a fault. Frecheville was emphatic
on this ; Clemes allowed that it might be an elbow, or a
bend, or a fault. Also, past mine managers White and
Davey, and present boss Pascoe, all qualified men, and
with an experience of most of the world’s known reef-
formations, called it a fault. In face of this evidence,
which might be called weighty, Jacquet, after a brief
examination, confidently tells his Department that fault
is a misnomer, and it’s an inverted saddle reef. Problem
is certainly interesting, and calls for argument.
* * * *
Queen Bee Copper (N.S.W.), referred to last
week as suffering from dual management and a lack of
development in sulphide zone, has reconsidered its
policy and wisely decided to place control in mine mana-
ger’s hands. Almost simultaneously with this announce-
ment comes the news of the much-wanted sulphides being
struck in crosscut on the 370 ft. level; but so far values
are undetermined. Month’s return, just to hand, esti-
mated at 40 tons, only reached 38 tons, which, to say the
least, is suggestive that erection of No. 3 reverb, was
rushed. Sulphide strike may now, however, justify it;
but unless something better than 40 tons copper can be
got monthly, mine’s best effort will be threepenny divi-
dends.
< * #
C.S.A., an old-time and long-abandoned Cobar
copper venture which a few of the best-known Cobar
men lately resurrected, has given some encouragement
already. Old shaft has been re-timbered to bottom level
—something like 300 ft.—and thereabouts they have
struck lead carbonates, and indications are considered
promising. Syndicate has £3OOO to spend, and it’s in
good hands ; but the mine, from surface to present level,
has always given promising indications, and never any-
thing, more substantial, so that, in spite of the good
management, too much confidence would be still a mis-
take. Policy now is to get down where old-timers left
off, and chances favor a payable sulphide body. All the
same, C.S.A. is not only a gamble pure and simple, but it
hasn’t even the plums that most copper shows carry in
the upper levels.
» * * •
Young Australia, an old-time producer of much
gold, on tlie long line of Cobar’s auriferous helt, gets unde-
servedly forgotten. Area is considerable; further, there’s a
20-head stamp mill not yet obsolete, and a reservoir with a
couple of years’ supply. Deposits of mine, like those of
its neighbors, the Western and Occidental, are proved
through the oxidised ores right to the copper zone, and
both are known to contain stuff that should now be pay-
able. So far mine hasn’t had a chance to establish itself
on a fair basis, which is the only reason it isn’t estab-
lished ; but as soon as Cobar people find time to
give serious consideration to the things near home,
there won’t be any further slump in Young Australia.
It’s near at home, a good mine, and, like the Occidental,
should scatter its divs. locally instead of throughout the
land of J. Bull.
* * * «
Myall and Peak Hill United (N.S.W.), under
manager James Hocking, gradually moves into larger
production. It is not long since the Hill was secured by
the Myall people. It failed dismally under battery treat-
ment ; but being a porous, low-grade, gossany ore, it
yields itself to the rolls, and as total costs of treatment
under this method don’t exceed ss. per ton, there is
already a monthly profit coming out of the cyanide vats.
So far, co. has only 10 vats in position, with a total out-
put of 2500 tons monthly ; but directors (J. Bull and co.)
contemplate duplicating these, bringing output to 5000
tons. Myall, which is a dead-weight Peak Hill certainly
can’t carry, is to be abandoned, and machinery passed on
to Peak Hill. This move should have been made before.
Peak Hill has enough gold and is big enough to absorb
all the available energy—though, to satisfy all the share-
holders in a 250,000-share co., there isn’t likely to be any
energy to spare.
* » * •
For first half of 1905, W.A. mines have produced
965,3730 z. fine gold against 984,6150 z. for first half of 1904,
a shortage of 19,2420 z. For second half of 1904 output
was 998,6150 z., an average of 166,4000 z. monthly, figures
which are quite unlikely to be realised this year. It
seems safe to predict a shortage of quite 50,0000 z. on the
year.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.), as result of further
development, is proving that its 1900 ft. level, which was
for nearly nine months under a cloud, is exceptionally
good. After driving 90ft. north, lode widened to 10ft.,
worth 36dwt. ; from 90ft. to 120 ft. it averaged 10ft., worth
47dwt. This puts a different complexion on mine and
field generally, as bears had been arguing that gold had
petered out. Had any energy been displayed, this dis-
covery should have been made last October, as driving
40ft. to 50ft. weekly can easily be done ; yet Boulder has
done 10ft. a month only. Boulder treatment costs con-
tinue ridiculously high, being 14s. Id. for 1904 against
Ivanhoe’s 9s. 10d., Oreat Fingall’s 7s. lid., and Sons of
Gwalia’s ss. 3d.
* » * *
Associated, Kalgoorlie, which has now been in
charge of G. M. Roberts for about three months, looks
much more hopeful than it has done for years. Roberts
was positive that Oroya shoot had never been found and
that it was east of No. 10 level. His theory has proved
correct, and a rich shoot has now been located 435 ft. south
of Oroya boundary, and about 40ft. below 10 level. For a
width of about Soft, ore is worth 2oz. This is best
development Associated has had for a long time, and quite
alters prospects of mine, as co. has possibility of 1600 ft.
in length of rich ore. Other developments have also
been satisfactory. Alterations to treatment should be
completed by end of year ; co. is now earning profits of
£2500 to £3900, besides spending £3OOO a month on
alterations to plant.
* * * *
Princess Royal Central, Norseman (W.A.),
which has hitherto been rather disappointing, has had a
good development. Some time ago driving north and
south at 950 ft. was commenced, and good values were
looked for in south drive, where chief work was concen-
trated. However, nothing better than 6dwt. was got,
although reef averaged Bft. But in north drive, ore worth
25 to 30dwt., and sft. wide, has been cut, and, if this con-
tinues, outlook for mine is fairly rosy. Manager Hender-
son has displayed great energy in pushing on develop-
ments.
* * • •
Princess Royal (W.A.) looks as if it still had a
slight chance. In driving south at 50ft. good ore has
been met, as all along anticipated ; but trend of lode is
carrying it near boundary of Central, and con-
sequently life of the mine is limited. Shareholders
made a fatal mistake when they vetoed the
purchase of Central blocks, and so lost an opportunity
never likely to recur. Unless costs given by ex-manager
Ridgway before Arbitration Court can be materially
reduced, there is no chance of any divs. June return
shows that 1900 short tons, worth 475., were treated, at
cost of 55s.—a loss of Bs. a ton, or about £750. Isolation
of Norseman, and erratic nature of its reefs, appear to
make cheap costs out of question ; and proposed railway
seems as far off consummation as ever, as experts allege
that outlook is not sufficiently encouraging. Judging
from current prospects, experts seem about right.
» * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) has at last closed down
its mill, and chances of a revival seem remote. A good
deal of vain prospecting has been done, and, as col is still
financial, furtherjjqgsicking is proceeding, but outlook is
pretty ln upper levels country is much dis-
turbed, and lode broken and contorted, and in more
settled country nothing payable has been met with. On
several occasions hopes of Kalgurli and Hainault shoots
entering the property have been held out ; but, un-
fortunately, these shoots have invariably petered out
before reaching the boundary. Recently accumulated
slimes have enabled co. to continue, but they are about
done.
* • * *
We&tralia Waihi doesn’t improve. Last three
months returns show 28s. 4d., 245. 5d., and 18s. sd. per
ton, with a resultant profit of £lOO, and losses of £lOO
and £450. Previous official estimates were thus worse
than valueless. Co.’s only visible hope is that eastern
reef discovered by present manager Watts may pan out
satisfactorily when cut in crosscut from 280 ft. level. If
that proves a frost, outlook seems hopeless.
(Continued on page S 3).


:"v«v
M
Cushions
Designed by
Tom Browne,
in Four
Colors —
USUAL
PRICE
3111
SALE
PRICE
2)11
Sent Carriage Pair.
David Jones & Co., Sydney.
£L 6B“ t «» jmgf
PDF
f£A&j
|g|fgi
EXQUISITE MODELS. PERFECT FIT*
# j* GUARANTEED WEAR. o*
THE NEW * —
P.D.
... CORSETS
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside,
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.
SOCIETY
FROM THE NORTH.
[For The Bullet i n.]
“Japan will construct a new Chinese Navy.”—Cable-
gram.
Can you hear the distant throbbing- ? ’Tis the sound of
Asian drums.
’Tis the tramp of Manchu legions, and the war-songs of
Japan.
’Tis the eerie, far-off murmur, e’er the roaring tempest
comes,
Of the men who once went Westward—in the days of
Genghis Khan.
Do you see the flash and sparkle on the hills to northward
there ?
'Tis the glint of bit and bayonet—’tis the kiss of steel and
sun ;
'Tis the leaping of the lightning through the tense,
expectant air,
Just before the thunders reach us from the deep-
mouthed six-inch gun.
They have wrongs that they remember—they have debts
they long to pay :
Even now the swords are sharpening in the subtle, silent
East;
And they fear the White no longer, do those myriads of
Cathay.
Do you see the eagles wheeling as they gather to the
feast ?
There is talking in Tokio, there are whispers in Pekin ;
There are thoughts of lust and plunder, there are
thoughts of ancient scores.
They have portioned out already all the land they hope
to win,.
And our country lies in slumber—with the Mongol at her
doors.
Ji-L- Taiwa.
* * * *
“ Consider the comedy of monuments and
the irony of epitaphs. Statues, as a rule, com-
memorate stupidity. The owner of the finest
cenotaphs in Westminster Abbey are forgotten,
and most sculptors are the advance agents of
oblivion.”— ,Tames Doug las.
STABLE SECRETS.
“ I say, aunty, is cousin Mary going to marry Mr. Jones ?”
“I can't quite say, dear. Why? ”
“ Well, Tommy Jones wants to bet me she is, and I thought it would be better to get the tip
direct from the stable."
John Wheeler, boss Orangeman of Aus-
tralia, at the 12th of July meeting (daily paper
report)Brisban
This night we celebrate the anniversary of the battle of
the Boyne, fought 215 years ago.
S.M. Herald next day -
Yesterday, being the 12th of July, the anniversary of
the battle of the Boyne.
These people should really look up their history
books and find out what battle they are celebrat-
ing, and when the Boyne scrimmage happened.
The great aggregate Constable Pecksniff,
of Melbourne, lately haled a bookseller before the
beaks for exposing “indecent pictures” in his
window. Said pictures were price-ticket cards,
showing damsels getting their shoes polished and
exposing portion of a neat calf the while, a couple
of babies dressed only in top boots, and so on.
He was discharged on undertaking to withdraw
the allegedly “offensive” cards. Melbourne is
getting fearfully moral, and even the spielers,
who decorate the pavement outside the Bourke-
street betting “clubs” and pour undressed dic-
tionary into the air, may yet find themselves
spoken to severely.
Three legal sharks had a great riot at
Camperdown (Vic.), lately, over a council em-
ployee whose wages they wanted to garnishee.
The victim’s monthly pay came to £B, and for an
hour two of the fish battled over that, the Bench
finally giving shark No. 1 £4 55., and grampus No.
2£3 14s. 3d. There being 9d. left, they were still
arguing about costs when whale No. 3 burst in
and put in a claim for his costs, saying he had
appeared for the employing council at some more
or less distant date. The Bench eyed the miser-
able ninepence for a space, then considered the
three learned fish, and, finally, in disgust, threw
the lot of them out.
* * * *
Vic. Premier Bent’s brutal directness of
speech has its points at times. At their annual pow-
wow over the battle of Aughrim, Melbourne
Orangemen, including Simian Phraser, Balfour,
M‘.Ketchup and Rev. Pearce Carey got excited as
usual. Rev. Carey in his anger stated that “the
man behind the Premier —the man who bent
Thomas Bent—-was the astute head of the R.C.
Church. The bricks of Mr. Bent’s policy were
not made in Bent’s brick works but in the Arch-
bishop’s kiln. It was the nod of the Archbishop
that determined the decisions of our Cabinet.”
Thomas duly noted this and rose to the occasion,
telling the reporters next day, “ A man who talks
like that is not entitled to the retort courteous,
but deserves the lie direct, and I give him the lie
direct. What he has stated is a lie ! ”
* * * *
Sydney’s bread supply is under discussion.
It is, like the supply of most other cities, “ pure ”
enough—so far as that goes. The wheat of which
it is made is first carefully treated, so that as
much as possible of the nutriment is extracted.
The balance is mostly starch, and is excellent for
making paste to stick up bills with. But it is not
used chiefly for that, but to make bread. If this
bread were properly baked, a good deal of the
starch would be converted into dextrine—a fairly
nutritious and digestible product. But that is
carefully avoided in most loaves, which are made
very thick and heavy and damp; so that the centre
is hardly cooked at all. Some bread is properly
cooked in long thin rolls, which are chiefly crust;
but that’s rare. Most bread is prepared in the
interests of the dentists and doctors. It is their
staff of life. They ought to subsidise the bakers,
but they don’t—partly out of ingratitude, and
partly from a desire not to give away the show.
Explorer Gregory was buried with the
greatest display of man millinery ever seen in
e. The deceased was Grand Autocrat of
the Most Gorgeous and Ancient Confusion of
Cheerful Giraffes that the State can produce, and
his body was preceded and followed by a host of
well-meaning persons, tricked out in sashes,
scarves, aprons, and stomach-bands, like unto the
King of the Cannibal Islands in all his glory ;
whilst little round pinnies were as common as flies
an d bad debts.
THE MAN OF THE WORLD.
HOSTESS: “ Why, what's the matter with you, Ray? You don’t seem to be dancing."
RAY (very grown up): “ Can't stand these kid affairs —got to be so careful how you talk."
The farcical nature of the pretence of
administering the anti-gambling laws in N.S.W.
was never more clearly shown than in the State
Parliament last week, when the Chief Secretary, in
reply to a series of questions, was able to state that
there are 25 known betting shops and four “ two-
up” schools in Sydney. These places must be
known thoroughly to the law, since the law can
thus accurately census them, and they are illegal.
But nothing happens to them. The law seems to
be very blind or very sharp at seeing a hole, just
as wealthy interests dictate; and the betting-
shop and bookmaking interest in Sydney repre-
sents an annual turn-over of about £3,000,000.
* * * *
Victorian law seems to get more cursory
and accidental and honorary every day. One of
the judges recently suspended, pending good
behavior, a nine-months’ sentence on a youth,
who straightway went astray again. The prosecu-
ting inspector wanted the bonds estreated and the
delinquent sent to serve his nine months, but
somebody discovered that the sureties had never
been entered into. Then the inspector wanted
the accused committed for being illegally at large,
but the Law, after considering the matter side-
ways and endways and upside down, finally said
“ Dunno,” and discharged him. There is a fright-
ful lot of “ Dunno ” about the Law.
* * * *
The Sydney suburb of St. Peters proposes
to change its name to “ Brompton.” Brompton
is strictly Hinglish. It is the name of a region of
horrible “ gentility” which lies south of Padding-
ton (London), and north of Clapham and Bat-
tersea ; and the Halbert ’All is thereabouts, like-
wise ’Ammersmith; and the best thing that can
be said for it is that it is some distance from Toot-
ing. The ingenuity of a municipal council which
proposes to call its town Brompton is beyond all
praise ; a council like that deserves to be pre-
sented with an oleograph or taken to see “ East
Lynne.” St. Peters is a smellful suburb, and has
consequently got a bad name, and the council pro-
poses to change the name instead of changing the
smells. The fact doesn’t seem to have dawned on
it yet that people will soon notice that Brompton
smells just as St. Peters did. Then it will be
time to change the name again and call the place
Asafcetida.
* * * w
Brisbane Water Board, an interesting
mixture of fossildom and up-to-dateness, has
turned again to Stradbroke Island as a possible
source of water supply for the city. In the centre
of this island there is an extensive lake, yielding
a bountiful supply of pure water. Some years ago
the matter was mooted, but after some languid
inquiry it dropped. The drawback is that the
water will require to be carried across the bay,
and, in the case of an invasion, the service pipes
would not easily be defended. But, on the other
hand, there is too much present and late animal
on the catchment area between Brisbane and Ips-
wich, and out at the back of Ipswich ; and some
improvement is urgently required.
Maoriland is talking about dealing roughly
with its police force. It says it wants a new force :
the present one having become hopelessly de-
moralised. The debacle commenced with the con-
viction of three policemen in Dunedin for whole-
sale burglary. After that the luck of the force
seemed quite gone, for within a week it was
bowled out in half-a-dozen very bad cases. One
of the most glaring was that of a man whom it
found in an epileptic fit in the street, and charged
with being just soaked with liquor. At the court
next morning the whole watchhouse force turned
up to swear that it was a case of drink and not
epilepsy ; but it hadn’t quite done swearing to
this effect when the man corroborated his own
story by taking: another fit on the floor of the
court, and the publicity brought along evidence
which cleared him of the charge of beer. Next,
in Auckland, two young men looking for a cab
late at night, were ordered to “move on and not
obsthruct the thraffie.” But for themselves and
the copper the street was empty, so they took it
for Robert’s wit, and laughed out of a sense of
politeness. Then a cab came along and they
hailed it. Robert got in last, without any invita-
tation, and said “Police Station,” There he
charged them with being drunk and disorderly,
and in the morning a further charge of violent
conduct in the cells was brought against them. A
squad of police backed up the constable’s story,
and things looked bad. But they were able to
hire expensive counsel, and proved that if they
were drunk they must have got that way in about
two and a half minutes. The police position be-
came a rout. Later, another amazing constable
found a man lying on the pavement, and without
warning started to drag him to the station. The
man pleaded that his leg was broken, arid the
constable noted the Remark with a view to a
further charge of insulting behavior. He was
dragged to the lockup, and left in agony all night.
In the morning a doctor ordered the accused into
hospital instantly. What with one thing and
another, an awful row has started; and when you
mention perjury now such a shiver runs through
the force that some people mistake the commo-
tion for another earthquake.
* * * »
The Victorian Education Department at-
tributes to bad accommodation the difficulty it
experiences in getting teachers to go into the
country, and a lady officer has been appointed to
visit each country district and stipulate that the
lady teacher shall get proper accommodation and
fruit and vegetables in her dietary. But as the
girl teacher gets only £7 to £8 per month, it will
cost her, in these circumstances, just about her
whole pay to live. Fancy a Mallee farmer in a
dry season supplying fruit and vegetables for 10s.
to 15s. per week—the usual board charge, If the
Department paid the backblocks teacher a bit
extra for facing the deadly dulness, the difficulty
might be overcome. Teachers mostly begin in
cities, but at about 23 they are sent to the bush—
after a. short spell of which they either get back to
town by hook or crook ; or else quit kicking and
mentally go to sleep.


Penmanship.
BUSINESS WRITING, DESIGNING,
BLOCK LETTERING, ENGROSSING,
successfully taught by Mail.
“ HOME STUDY ” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney. [4
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northeote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
&
JBMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128-130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KI3NTG- STREET,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
The voice of “ Old Chum ”
An ancient North Shore (Sydney) house, historic as an
inn and as the resort of operatic and dramatic people half
a century ago, was the subject of inquiry, at the North
Sydney police court, last week. In 1843 Mr. William Dind
kept the Clown Tavern, in Pitt-street, afterwards known
as the Shakspeare Hotel. He sold out to George Coppin,
and took the Star and Garter, nearly opposite. George
Coppin in a short time gave up the Clown and went to
Van Diemen’s Land, but Dind hung on to Sydney, and in
1850 was keeping the Lily of St. Leonards, at Milson’s
Point, the “ lily ” being a black gin. The Campbells, of the
Wharf, owned a big slice of land close to Milson’s Point,
and Dind was entrusted with the cutting up and sale of
the estate. He had the privilege of selecting an allotment
for himself, and chose the N.E. corner of Fitzroy-street
and the main road, known as Lane Cove-road (“ Alfred-
street” was an invention in the Duke of Edinburgh’s
time). Here he built an inn, still known by his name.
From his connection with theatres as lessee, treasurer, &c.,
his house was the resort of theatrical and operatic people.
There is a large gallery still there of pictured
celebrities of-a former age. Recently the house was con-
demned and the license was renewed only on condition
that new premises should be erected. This new house
was built, but not on the site of the old one, and the
police summoned the lessee for selling in the new pre-
mises without a license, holding that it was not a substi-
tute for the ancient structure. To get over the difficulty
the present Dind connected the two houses with a covered
way and made them one. Still the police are not satisfied
and the S.M. is undecided. The original Dind died ten
years ago, aged 82 years.
THE WATCHFUL EYE.
MRS. ISAACSTEIN: “ Ok, Shakey, how you got all
your shirt-front burnt ?”
MR. ISAACSTEIN: "Blaying poker mit dree com-
mercials, Rachel .”
MRS. I.: “ Vell, couldn’t you turn your head to
vun side ven you drop your cigar ash? ”
MR. I.: “ Not mit dose fellers !”
Sydney mint passed its 50th anniversary
on May 14th. It was established in 1855, largely
owing to the advocacy of James Martin and
J. B. Darvall, in its present location, Macquarie-
street. The building is an early Sydney relic,
the mint offices having been the military hospital
of the old days. The father of W. J. Trickett,
M.L.C., was technical expert in charge, under
first deputy-master Captain Ward. Sydney mint
ante-dated that of Melbourne by 17 years, and
that of Perth by 36 years. It turned out the first
regular Australian coinage, although South
Australia issued some sovereigns in the early
60’s. They bore the royal crown on the obverse,
but had no Imperial authorisation. Prior to 1870
locally-coined gold was intended only for Austral-
asian circulation, and was stamped with the word
“Australia.” It was alloyed with silver, and in
consequence was greater in value than the present
coinage, which contains a copper alloy.
A letter from a disrespectful correspon-
dent :
There’s a good deal of the spirit of Bill Adams in N.S.W.
Teachers’ Association.
When Mr. Perry and Mr. Wise raised the small assis-
tant’s salary to a figure at which body and soul could be
partly kept together, the Association took the credit So
did Mr. Osborne, of the Public Service Association. Mr.
Osborne said if the teachers didn’t join the P.S.A. their
salaries would be lowered. Just after that Mr. Perry and
Mr. Wise further raised the salaries of the small men.
Then the Public Service Association and the Teachers’
Association bumped one another in the doorway in their
hurry to show that each had brought about that result.
Some of the members high up in the Teachers’ Associa-
tion say they have great influence in politics. I don’t
know whether this is true, but after the last election Mr.
Carruthers became Prime Minister, and his Attorney-
General has since chopped down the incomes of the
smaller teacher. The Teachers’ Association approved
this, and it and the P.S.A. didn’t bump each other in the
doorway this time.
I’ve been a member of the Association for some years,
but have lost my card of membership and so have great
difficulty in gaining admission to the meetings. There-
fore I make the following suggestions to the Association
here:—
(«) Don’t worry about Mr. Knibbs. Let him startle the
world with a great scientific discovery, or experiment
in acclimatising seagulls in Bourke, as he thinks fit.
( b ) Pass a resolution (you’re great at passing reso-
lutions) that either Judge Heydon be compelled to pay
for the cleaning of his own courthouse, or that the mean
tax imposed on teachers for the cleaning of school-rooms
be abolished.
* * * *
The other day, in a fashionable Melbourne
suburb, the principals of a “ladies’ school” with
a pretty pink name, sued to recover £8 Bs. for a
quarter’s “ board and education of two children.”
The row was whether the fees were £4 or £4 4s.
Four pounds for, say, 10 weeks feeding and train-
ing, and for the purchase of the large quantity of
frill which ladies’ school with the pretty pink
names have to wear on the outside ! One hardly
knows whether to pity most the school marm or
the kid, or what size of rock to throw at the kid’s
parent.
* » * •
Sydney D.T., last Monday, in a shocked
shriek, deprecated the idea that Australia could
possibly know as much about what is needed for
Australian naval defence as does the British
Admiralty. And a few years ago how absurd it
would have been to suggest that Australian
soldiers knew more about open-order fighting than
British Tommies !
m * * -k
A.M.P. manager Teece, who has been
again delving into infant-mortality figures for the
benefit of Sydney Society
of Actuaries, might delve
a bit further for the benefit
of the Black Labor crowd
who picture Queensland as
a place where the white
man gets too limp to work,
and where the white infant
comes puling into the world
only to leave it promptly.
Australasian figures, lately
made up to the end of 1903,
show that Westralia has
absolutely the worst record;
of every 100 infants born,
14'12 die there within
12 months (1903 figures),
against 11‘99 in Queensland.
The total death rate of
Queensland is less than
that for either N.S. Wales
or Victoria, while the per-
centage of deaths under
five years to total deaths
was less in Queensland in
1902 than it was even in
Tasmania, where the Dob-
sons live, and in 1903 was
justasliadegreater. Taking
them all round, far and
away the best figures for
all Australasia are those of
S. Australia ; and S. Aus-
tralia includes the N. Terri-
tory where the European is
supposed to go only to
shrivel up.
* * *
Melbourne burglars
grow more enterprising and
successful. Some of them
broke open a suburban
butcher’s shop on a recent
Friday night and carted
away the whole stock of
meat (about £6O worth), in-
cluding the sausages, sheep’s
head, trotters, liver and
kidneys, cow-heel, ox-tail,
calf’s brains, dripping, suet, etc. They didn’t
even overlook the meat hooks and price tickets
necessary to do a thriving retail trade at “ cut
prices.” Also, they took the cleaver—in fact,
they left nothing but the block and a scrap of
cat’s meat.
Australia has not, so far, had any nigger-
roasting incidents as the price of admitting the
black and yellow man to its shores, but almost as
squalid horrors now and again spring up to show
the inevitable penalty of race-mixture. the
Maclean (N.S.W.) poisoning case is an example.
In April last a white woman, Jane Davis, was
charged with poisoning a Kanaka named Williams
at Maclean (N.S.W.). She was living with another
Kanaka named Tanna, and Williams lodged with
them. On the evidence, which was revolting, the
woman was convicted. Now, after the lapse
of some months, a crowning horror conies
in the discovery that both Kanakas, the white
woman’s paramour and her alleged victim, are
lepers, and in an advanced stage of the disease.
For years they had escaped observation, and had
even come under the fierce light of a notorious
criminal trial without being detected ; and one
had been cohabiting with a white woman. Two
choice samples of the harmless, gentle, unobtrusive
Kanaka of Senator Dobson’s affection ! Probably
they, too, were especially gentle and unobtrusive;
leprosy takes the craving for public advertisement
out of a man.
* • * *
N.S.W. Public Service Association has
finally decided not to register under the N.S.W.
Arbitration Act. The reason of its hanging back
is the known antagonistic attitude ot the Lar-
ruthers Government to the arbitration principle.
The Association has 17 branches, and a member-
ship of nearly 5000, with a balance m hand ot
£llB9.
“ Hamer ” : The way passen-
gers have of disappearing off Maori-
land steamships creates anxiety
amongst the ships’ officers, and
when they see anyone roaming
about the deck in the mid-
night hours they are a
haggard and anxious lot.
I used to haunt
the binnacle in the
silent hours, and
was amused by
the watch set
upon me and the
way, whenever I
walked rapidly
towards the bul-
warks, somebody
edged up close.
After a whi 1 e,
when the strain of
uncertainty got
too strong, one
of the o ffi ce r s
would come up
and get into con-
versation with
me, apparently to
ascertain the mood
I was in. Once I
happened to be
in a gloomy frame
of mind, and told
the tenth mate
that life was a blank.
In his anxiety to per-
suade me to postpone
suicide, he asked me to
partake of a whisky.
After that I used to come
on deck late every night,
and say that existence
was a mistake, but after
two more whiskies the
tenth mate decided that
it would be cheaper to let
me drown.
“C.H.H.” from Victoria:—
When I get to Parliament my first effort
will be to make it a criminal offence for racing,
biking, pedestrian, football, tennis, cricket and
other clubs to make any man in an official
position president, vice-president, or anything else,
of tiieir tin-pot shivoos. My town beat the record
when it tried to -appoint the State M.E.A., the State
M.L.C., the Federal Rep., the most adjacent Senator,
the shire president, and the mayor of the nearest town all
“ patrons ” of a sheep-dog trial—two events worth £l6 in
all.
* * * *
A Melbourne scribe :
Encountered old King Cole, the barracker for a piebald
Australia, in his private lair the other night. I found him
south-east of the monkey-department, and he had just
finished the 175th stanza of a poem, extolling the virtues
of the Chow, or words to that effect. King Cole writes
poetry the same as a carpenter saws timber, sawing each
verse out with laborious earnestness. But he is an im-
pressive old man to gaze upon. He suggests Paul Kruger
to a slight extent; and an avalanche of hair descends
from his brow to his ear. His stock of information
impressed me most, however. He’s a regular vat of
figures.
He reckons that inasmuch as the human race all come
from the same original stock, therefore every white man has
Asiatic or African blood in his veins, and vice versa. It is
his opinion that in time the breeds will all become mixed
together, and the Chow will intermarry with the Saxon.,
and the Jap with the German, and the Javanese with the
American, and the Malay with the Frenchman, and that
the prevailing tint will be a sort of yellowish black, and
that it will be impossible to prevent it.
If I hadn’t had to catch a tram I would have asked Cole
where on earth he got the extraordinary information that
men all came from one original stock. I believe there is
some superstition to that effect, but no Scripture that I
can remember backs it up. I presume the people who
hold this idea reckon that Cain married his sister—this at
a time when the Scripture doesn’t even mention that lie
had a sister. And why the complaint in early Genesis
that the “ sons of God” began to marry the “ daughters
of men ” if they were all of one descent ? Even as far
back as Genesis VI., 2 and 3, the intermarriage of races
seems to have been a curse and a failure.
« • * •
A stiff-collared Scotclibyterian parson of
the Tasmanian West Coast got between the Devil
and a cold blast the other evening, and after con-
sideration decided to put up with the Devil. He
had been away touring, and his parishioners
decided to give him something extra in the way
of a welcome back; so they hired the local hall,
and put him up to make a speech and tell them
all about it. He had got quarter-way through,
and had already mentioned the shocking evils of
derrink that he had observed, when, turning, he
saw' a huge beer barrel painted on the “drop”
behind him. Also, he found that he was partially
blocking an invitation to the crowd to dunk
Eliss’s Beer, while around his head circled a
pressing command to stick to square gin. He
adjourned his further remarks till the awful
barrel had been rolled up. And then the coldest
blasts that the bleak West Coast knows how to
brew struck the prodigal on the neck. He
shrieked heroically for 10 minutes; then sadly he
stepped aside, and unrolled the barrel of beer, and
concluded his remarks with the old command to
stick to gin again glaring behind his head.
* * * *
Adelaide Register vouches for the story
of a lady who complained that “Federation has
not done much for us ; I can’t even get my wood
to burn.” On further inquiry, it was found that
the inferior fuel came from a local dealer, who,
for advertising purposes, called his allotment the
“Commonwealth Woodvard ” !
A Maoriland citizen named Sewell, who
was defendant in a little court case about two
cows, at Murchison (Nelson) last week, wakened
up the sleepiest province in Maoriland with a
new sensation. He blew himself up with dyna-
mite in the doorway of the court, and sent his
head and legs flying separately across the ball of
justice. The other shatterage consisted of a
badly-damaged magistrate, a wrecked police
inspector, a harmless citizen named Bunn terribly
injured, the front of the court blown out, and an
immense number of windows destroyed.
DISQUALIFYING IRIDESCENCE.
“I see Flossie Bolger has lost her engagement."
“ Yes. She would insist on wearing her diamonds
in the beggars’ chorus.”
The result of the inquiry concerning the
death of Mrs. Tierney at Gymbowen (Vic.) is
reported in Sydney D.T. thus: —
At midnight the jury returned a verdict of murder by
some person or persons unknown. The verdict was
received with loud cheering-.
There is a legend that in the days of public
hanging in Sydney several persons went through
the trap-door to ail accompaniment of loud
cheering. There was also a reporter on an even-
ing paper who closed his account of an execution
at Darlinghurst Gaol with “loud cheers,” he
having inadvertently supposed that he was
handing in a report of a speech by Henry Parkes.
* • * *
Century Magazine for June, noting the
many wealthy cads who, because they donate
large sums to the Uniyersities, receive honorary
LL.JD. degrees, advises the bestowal in such cases
of a special, a sort of dishonorable ££.!>. The
honorary LL.D. is a particularly
abused title, and some heroic
measure is needed ,to save it
from contempt.
MUNIFICENCE.
“Sir, when you gave me your fare yesterday you
gave a penny too much.”
“ Did I ? Then keep it, keep it. Honesty should
always be rewarded.”
Under new Melbourne City Council by-
laws, licenses for tram cars, gripmen and conduc-
tors will run the Tramway Co. into £3 11s. per
annum for each car employed. Regulations as to
number of passengers, etc., are very stringent.
Melb. Argus, however, after interviewing the
Town Clerk, says, “it is hardly likely the bylaw
will be literally and rigidly enforced.” And
why ? Presumably the bylaw enacts what is right
and necessary.
A YEAR AGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The time was summer, the sun was high
As I stood and watched the team go by ;
Wending slow o’er the dust-swept hill
([ almost think I can see it still),
For you were walking beside tbe load ;
And your eyes met mine across the road
But that was a year ago.
The night had fallen, the world was still;
The sun’s last gleams had kissed the hill ;
The soft breeze whispered the rustling wheat,
And stirred the grasses beside our feet ;
A white moon flooded the white bush land ;
The curlew called as you took my hand,
Vowing you’d love me till—who shall say ?
I think you said until Judgment Day—
But that was a year ago.
The wheat is reaped, and the grass is brown ;
The moon has vanished behind the town ;
Clouds sweep the sunshine from the sky ;
Vows are forgotten, and so am J.
No more the team comes over the hill;
I couldn’t expect you’d love me still —
Since that was a year ago.
TAS.
NEVILLE GOYDER


f •.
a**®
4r
«
&
ft«y
ye
tn®
,-t &
c*««
C oU
d* 1
gs*'
F ALIERES’ PHOSPH ATI N E
H,s m "
ALL OTHER
FOOD S
m
-•S'?},'
NFANTS A INVALIDS
ALL CHEMISTS 4 grocers
Only One Way To Ee Beautiful-use
VALAZE! Absolutely no preparataon ever
invented will help you like VALAZE. I housands
of ladies speak in glowing terms of its wonder-
ful beauty-giving properties and its power t
restore the complexion to its original beauty.
Try one jar to-day—price 3s. 6d. and 6s. ; posted
6d extra. YALA ZE Soap 2s (lasts six months);
VALAZE Herbs (Aromatic) 3s. 6d. packet;
VAL AZE Skin Tonic, most cooling arid refresh-
ing 3s. 6d. bottle ; VALAZE Face Powders 2s
box (3 tints) to dust on the face. Ask your chemist
or write direct. Mdlle. Rubinstein, 243 Collin. -
street, Melbourne. Mention this paper and
receive “ Guide to Beauty free.
At this Season of the year, when the
sudden and inclement changes of weather are so
prolific of chills and coughs with attendant dangers
of bronchitis and pneumonia, it is well to knovv of
a reliable curative, combining efficacy, palatable-
ness and reasonable cost. Arnold’s Balsam has
proved successful as a remedy for 50 years. Men
may come and men may go but Arnold s Balsam
goes on for ever.” It is a fragrant pectoral
Balsam prepared under pharmaceutical super-
vision, and will at once ease the most obstinate
chronic cough. Parents, look to it. You will save
endless anxiety and needless cost by using this old
and well tried cure. The speedy relief from the
use of Arnold’s Balsam has astonished many
thousands during the past 50 years. A good article
holds, asham quackery imitation deservedly delays.
Assertions without proof are valueless, so that
when we state that Arnold’s Balsam is famed, we
back it up with undoubted testimony. VNe
particularly want to impress on the public the
advisability of trying Arnold’s Balsam before
making purchases in any other direction. Ine
established reputation of Arnold’s Balsam has
been proved, according to results of careful and
exhaustive researches, to exercise a remarkably
favorable action in cases of bronchitis, coughs,
croup etc. Bold by all chemists and stores in the
States.*
THE QUEEN’S FACE FOOD.
Old ladies made young. Young ladies made
beautiful. No more wrinkles, pimples, or black-
heads. but a beautiful, clear, peachlike complexion,
for those who use the Queen’s I ace Hood.
Manufactured by Dr. Noel, the Queen s own
beautifier. Thousands have derived the greatest
benefit from it, and speak highly of it. Obtainable
Bank Chambers, Moore St., Sydney, 3s. Od., bs,
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
# OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
brandy
QUALITY and AGE.
jljeaiqle
gtockW*
(Dress
shields
THE day has long past when DRESS SHIELDS were considered a
Luxury. The higher and more refined ideals associated with Dress
demand DRESS SHIELDS as a necessity. If you want DRESS
SHIELDS that are a Luxury as well as a Necessity you will ask for—
TRADEMARK
Dress fabrics
ArE B DrlperS. ,
THE VARNISHED BOARD
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 18, 1905.
My Deab Arini.—
Whenever two or twenty women are gathered
together these days, there will surely spring up
the topic of “how to make a little money,” or “a
little more money.” This desire to make “a
little more money ” has become vehement of late.
And it may be heard from women who are of
Sydney’s bon ton (such bon ton as we’ve got, which
mostly isn’t up to the cwt. mark). Brows are
knitted and faces become tense as the speakers
argue that tea-rooms and florists’ shops are over-
done. Typing and shorthand, metal work, etc.
—well, not very lucrative, and, at the best, calling
for a sacrifice of all one’s days to make them pay-
able jobs. “Oh, if I could onljr write short
stories,” moans one She; “there is, I hear, an
almost unlimited market for them. I would write
one every night when I came home from bridge or
a dance ! I could easily malce ten guineas a week.”
All agree that music-teaching, or any teaching,
is hateful. Besides they don’t w'ant work that
will demand all their time. Not unless it were
immensely remunerative, like successful crystal-
gazing, or clairvoyancy, or some other form of
fortune-telling. At mention of these three crafts
you may almost see the listening ears waggle with
eagerness, for these are splendid money-making
concerns if you are very good at them.
But I think the prophetess of to-day needs to
devise a new form of prophecy to be an Enormous
Success. I am thinking out a new branch of the
business. It will have nothing to do with crystals
or cards. I will buy an old graveyard, and a tall
prophetess in evening dress will read the future
there on moonless nights w T itli the aid of a faint
blue light and a cypress tree and a black kitten.
The charge will be very high, and fainting patrons
will be removed in a spring-lieeled cab.
The triumphs of mechanical surgery ! You may
remember some two years ago that one of the
staff of a Sydney firm of solicitors had to have
both his legs amputated at the knees through a
tram accident at North Sydney. The tram
guard’s ability to render “first aid” saved the
sufferer from bleeding to death in the first in-
stance, and afterwards the young athlete’s own
indomitable courage and fine constitution pulled
him through. No one w r ould guess from
this “patient’s” locomotion now that he was in-
debted to any artificial support. He walks quite
erect, only a very slight stiffness is apparent when
he is going down hill, and he does not seem to
lean other than nominal weight on the cane he
carries. And the young man takes the position
quite cheerfully. “I’m going out to get my
corns cut,” he tells his friends at the office when
the spirit moves him to sally forth and see a man
about a kitten. Also he jeers at them for their
“meat feet.” The courage which kept his heart
beating on the operation table keeps it now quite
cheerful.
From a recent book: “Lady Wick stood re-
ceiving her guests in a merciless white satin gown
which set off with uncalled-for vividness the hues
of a visage dyed with wine and wind.”
France in Sydney celebrated its national fete in
the usual innocent, pastoral way—with a picnic to
Cabarita. The “ entente ” was a special feature of
this year’s frisk, and it was petted and patted and
glorified like a first baby. All the speakers
pulled it into their discourse and dandled it and
called upon the Cornstalk citizens (who went on
from one till three eating their lunch—they had
paid 15s. for their tickets) to note what a fine
thing it was and only two months old ! The band
was the German band disguised in other clothes !
When it brayed out “God Save the King,”
Mr. George Reid rolled into the picture, like the
Judge in “Pickwick,” on two little quaint legs,
and immediately fell asleep. He was awakened,
and proceeded to frolic with the entente. None of
the speakers, save Consul-General Pinard, used
French. The gap left by Mr. B. R. Wise showed
yawningly. He always made an oration in French
on these occasions. A visiting artist (Victorian)
lost his eyes to “a beautiful dark French girl,”
found an introducer, and discovered her to be a
pure Potts Pointer, who wouldn’t have known the
entente if she had found it floating in her after-
noon tea.
A seventeen-year-old boy went to a fancy-dress
ball, lately (in no matter which State), dressed as
a girl. He looked a beautiful fraud, and he has a
pretty wit which he didn’t hide behind a fan, or,
for the matter of that, behind anything else. If
that boy wanted money for a trip to Europe or the
Kermadecs, or for a rope wherewith to hang him-
self, he’d not have to look for it. Two of the
sparklets who made love to him, and ap-
pointments with him for next night, gave
him their cards with the cooing time pencilled
thereon. Their wives are great friends of his
mother. A third love-struck-at-first-sight Bertie
is engaged to be married to a sister of the mas-
querader’s dearest friend. He wrote to the saucy
youth a note beginning “Angel Face,” which the
frivolous monster showed to his sister and to “the
other fellows” at the Grammar School. Also, he
has retailed some of the compliments paid him
by those other two men. The three guilty ones
are trying to laugh it off by protesting they knew
all the time, and all the she-friends of the engaged
girl declare that “she really ought to be told.
Might save her so much misery in the future, you
know.”
When Paderewski was in Chicago recently a
certain big laundry distrained on one of his grand
pianos for a washing bill. The Master and his
Madam and his manager and the talking parrots
vowed the wash had been liquidated, but the Pole
paid again, under protest. People have so little
reverence in Chicago that they would distrain on
Paderewski’s hair if they felt that way, and only
let him have it back when he had settled up.
Professor and Mrs. David’s large Shakspeare
entertainment was one of last week’s social
events. Any guest who did not appear masque-
rading in one of the bard’s characters was to be
cast into eternal gloom, which intimation caused
dismay in the ranks of the alumni (no’Varsity
function can proceed without a reference to the
alumni). The said bard mostly chronicled the
doings of slim persons in doublet and hose, and
the host’s professorial colleagues refused to appear
in tights and arouse the ribald delight of the
undergrads, present. A deadlock was only saved
by someone remembering Friar Lawrence. Con-
sequently, monks abounded at the affair, and it
wasn’t necessary to appeal to the Arbitration
Court on account of a strike of professors, and to
hire a lawyer to ask that Judge Heydon would
order them to cavort in the Forest of Arden.
Shakspeare's songs were sung ; and the Romeos,
Juliets, Violas, Hamlets, Rosalinds, and Ophelias
danced merrily.
A comparative new-chum daughter of Mr.
James Nesbit, of Glasgow, was married on June 7
to the descendant of a very old Australia family,
Mr. Reginald Rudd, sixth son of Mr. Wm. Rudd,
of Harrington Park, Narellan. Away in the early
thirties, T. C. Harrington, Assistant Colonial
Secretary, owned the park and another property
known as Elderslie. Mr. Wm. Rudd subse-
quently came into possession, and the name has
flourished in and around Carnpbelltown ever since.
Time is good to Professor Tucker, the man
who knows his way so well about Greek life and
literature. It writes no wrinkle in adipose on his
sapling-like figure, and shows no sign of fore-
closing its mortgage on his hair. The Prof, gave
the first of a course of six lectures on Ancient
Athenian Life last night, and was listened
to with a silence that almost spoke. There
were graduates and under - graduates and
boys and girls who fairly bulged with
matriculation stuffing, and a leavening of
literary and butterfly circles. The period chosen
for the initial lecture was 440-330 8.C., when the
Athenian head was greatly swollen with conquest
and prosperity. The fortifications—shown by
lantern slides—round Athens had then just been
completed ; you could almost hear the last
Athenian stonemason dropping his tools as the
lecture cleared its throat and started. When the
Prof, gets to lecture IV. and deals with “The
Girl—The Woman—Her Ignorance—Love of
Dress—Marriage,” proceedings ought to brighten
up considerably.
Amateurs will play “The Schoolmistress” at
the Victoria Barracks presently in aid of a charity.
Some years ago this play was done by local persons
of quality. Some of them told their intimate
friends as a “dead secret” that the piece was so
difficult that it would certainly be a fearsome
failure in unskilled hands. Consequently there
was a rush for seats. A club waiter, who was
sent to procure accommodation, had his coat torn
to pieces by the dear women who were climbing
over one another to get space in which to see their
dear friends’ downfall. Naturally there was a
large audience. The play, by the way, was a
success. It is said you can see claw marks on the
wall yet where disappointed cats scratched as they
came out, and that there is a piece bitten out of
the door of the building.
There never was a better-tempered or more
philosophical concert company than that of Mr.
Watlcin Mills. Spite of the sparsely-populated
house on their final night, they sang as if every
seat were taken. “Flora’s Holiday ” was made as
jocund as lambs and children playing in spring-
time. Then the melodists went back to the Aus-
tralia and sang to each other till one in the
morning.
Mrs. Heermann and Miss Pickersgill, who
always come to great violinist Heermann’s con-
certs, are two very well-dressed and well-jewelled
women. They are so enchanted with the spring song
sung by July in Sydney that they are remaining
here whilst the great and the little masters, Hugo
and Emil, are touring elsewhere., Heermann’s
playing of the 40-minutes-long Beethoven violin
concerto at his last concert was hearkened to by
a full house that, at the close of the performance,
had arrived at just such enthusiasm as was
poured forth on Paderewski. All adjectives
that signified homage went up like hosannas.
It took Sydney some time to find out that Hugo
was great, genuine, and simple, and that his
violin sang like a singer by the grace of God.
Last Saturday Sydney tried to make up for lost
opportunities, and now awaits with ardor the
player’s return in mid-August.
Performance of the scratch professional orches-
tra on Saturday was so excellent, and got such
eulogy from Heermann, that it is a wonder these
men do not combine to give afternoon orchestral
concerts such as Melbourne enjoys under Prof.
Marshall Hall.
~Mrs. Fitzwilliam Curtis, the handsome Austra-
lian who was a Miss Genevieve Fattorini, of this
State, has secured a divorce from her officer-
husband in London. Evidence was so much in
her favor that the Judge said severe things about
the respondent, and the decree was secured on
three counts, any one of which would have been
sufficient in this State.
A delightful French pair, quite young and
decorative, have been in Sydney, at the Metro-
pole, for some weeks. Monsieur and Madame
Negaro. He has a chair —something to do with
sociology—at the Paris University, and is touring
to collect industrial knowledge. Miss Rose Scott
has provided a number of well-informed intellects
to sharpen and be sharpened on those of the
Parisians.
The collection of posters, or color impressions,
that were hung around the gallery of the Town
Hall on the night of the Artists’ Ball, was sold by
auction a few days later. Some of the pictures—
there were 28 of tliem—were capital. “ The Federal
House that Jack Built” (Gordon), “Queen of
Hearts” (Lindsay), and several of Souter’s, Leist’s
and Taylor’s were highly comic. A few artists
and Dr. Le Brun straggled in to the auction.
Then one of the artists, in despair at the thought
of the pictures going for tuppence each, telephoned
to Mr Sam. Hordern an entreaty to come and
save the situation. He came swiftly, and the
brown paper and calico masterpieces realised
for the Children’s Hospital charity.
The death in London of millionaire Peter
Russell in the manyth year of his life reminds
that he was Miss Thea Proctor’s grand-uncle, and
looked upon that pretty poster artist and her
mother (his niece) as his especial care. Ldce so
many very rich men Mr. Russell was childless.
Miss Proctor is still working at the Kensington
School of Design.
Committee of Boys’ Brigade Ball was quite
resigned to the dance not realising much lor the
charity this year. All the other chanties are m
shadow (list now whilst work for the Children s
Hospital looms up and obscures the horizon of
benevolence. Nathless the 8.8.8. was a very jolly
little one, and well-managed financially. An
astonishing item was the surplusage of men. 1 he
14-year-old son of Sydney’s Mayor, who is usually
in great demand as a waltzer, could scarcely get a
partner. Miss Darley and her uncle, Dr. Browne,
did their best to act vice-royalty.
Some “ somebody ” Maorilanders are preparing
to stand under the usual floral wedding bell and
be Breathed upon by the Voice. Miss Hardy-
Johnston, a member of one of the First Families
of Christchurch, is engaged to Mr. T. Ogilvie
Grant, a brother of the Earl of Seafield; Miss
Helen Barnicoat, a daughter of the leading lawyer
of Wanganui, is to marry a Dr. Wall, of the same
pastoral region. Bride-elect is a cousin of the
noted Constance Barnicoat, magazine contributor,
mountain climber, and for many years W. T.
Stead’s secretary.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“ News comes from Bananaland that Captain
Fitzpatrick is improving his wool knowledge there
up on a sheep run, and making preparations for
his early marriage with Miss Armytage.
“Mr. G. H. Reid kept himself awake more
than once after dinner to tell people that he didn’t
really sympathise with that Purity-of-the-Home-
and-Something-for-the-Cradle cry against the
Labor partv. But I have had a peep at the anti-
Socialism literature that George was preparing to
distribute when he came down crash, and it’s
pretty warm in its appeals to the women on the
Purity of the Home. It alleges that the Labor
party would give equal reward to the vicious and
the virtuous and 1 would make virtue and religion
impossible. By the way, I haven t noticed, since
Reid went out, any extraordinary number of
men running off with other people’s wives.
“ A story goes of a sweet young thing declaring
to a particularly nice and good-hearted johnnie
(whom she had, not succeeded in bringing up to
proposing point) that she was about to enter an
Anglican Sisterhood or something. That brought
him to the point, and he prevailed on her to try
matrimony instead, crowing as he did so over
winning a dear little retiring mate, who wouldn’t
ruin him with dress bills, and who would allow
him to say triumphantly, with a bang on his chest,
that he had snatched her from no earthly rival.
But the sequel goes to show that the retiring Eve
is a deceiver. That little wife wants quite the
ordinary number of Romney hats and Tommy
Atkins toques, and doesn’t retire any. That man
—if he ever gets another chance —will beware of
the angel-lamb who bleats about nunneries with a
downcast eye.
“ A continent-gadder has been seeing Carrie
Moore in England, and writes enthusiastically of
her improvement. ‘ There are new little tricks
the flutter of fingers and the play of the wrist.
They caught my attention, and are quite pretty.
She is a shade fuller in face and figure, and has
better taste in clothes. She will drift back to
Australia one of these days, and will please the
crowd out there. But another spoiling will never
do. Carrie hasn’t been spoilt since she left her
own country. Hard work has been a good thing
for her.’
“Before Hugo Heermann left Melbourne he
heard little Leila Doubleday play the violin, and
predicted a great future for the child if she is
started on the inevitable European course of
training within the next two years. Leila
Doubleday undoubtedly has the makings of a fine
violinist, and one likely to appeal to the crowd
as well as to the musical few. Already there is
warmth of tone in her playing. Talking of Mel-
bourne girl-musicians, it seems that Una Bourne
will be able to get away to Germany in a month
or two. Thus far there is no advertisement of a
farewell concert for the tall and wistful Una, and
if it is to be a big success the date had better be
fixed for as late as possible. Melbourne Town
Hall just now is a cold place, where the spirit of
lumbago flaps her snowy pinions, and a seat near
a doorway spells stiff neck. But the temperature
cuts both ways, so to speak. If it keeps some
people away from a concert it also moves
assembled audience to great enthusiasm. The
‘demand for an encore’ is an opportunity for
slapping one’s frozen hands together, and banging
the floor with both cold feet. The ‘ turn ’ that
gets no encore in the middle of July has probably
heated the public with indignation.
“ Mrs. Brough has no intention of deserting the
grease pots. She blithely expresses herself willing
to go on mumming, with the help of Providence
and Robert, for the next 20 years. She is exceed-
ingly astonished that Australia expected anything
else/ But did Australia really expect anything
else ?
“ A swagger Melbourne She-Club has contend-
ing elements. The cats on the hob do not agree.
Every fresh nominee is set upon by some of the
scratchers, and a dame submits her application for
membership with misgivings. ‘ The worst of the
club,’ said a jolly woman the other day, ‘is the
secret coterie element.’ ‘ Catterie,’ exploded her
companion in a purple rage. She had been
scratched out a few days before.
“Mr. and Mrs. Harry Payne struck out with a
vast number of side-shows to add to the joy of
their July spree. The Professor who boils the
billy with liquid air was one of them, an electric
bioscope was another, a programme of song and a
trio picking coon strains from the banjo, and cosy
corners (warmed to sitting-out needs) were some
more. Madame Sutherland raised her warm con-
tralto voice in song to the best effect of all the
artists. Mrs. Payne stood at the head of affairs in
a blaze of gems and in milky raiment of satin
duchesse with gaudy illuminations of silver and
steel. And all Society’s diamonds were out of
their safes that night.
“The taste for residence on the lodge-at-home-
and-eat-any where system grow side by side with
the flat existence. The best evidence ot both is
the great scarlet building that has sprung up on
the only spare block of land fronting Collins-
street East. It’s an idea of David byme s. Ihe
place is to be replete with bell systems and hall
porters, and automatic appliances that turn out
the boiling billy on the insertion of a church coin
in the slot.
“ There is a new color, thistle-blue, just a shade
off the favorite furniture hue of French smoke,
and two or three removes from cold-nose. Put
this is not the right weather for it. Ihe juxta-
position of hat and nose brings about odious com-
parisons.
“ Dame Forrest is smiling on the Labor party
again. ‘lt is almost as good as being again m
office,’ quoth one of the Labontes, with a grin.
The vigilant dame is the most zealous without
being the most tactful, manipulator of the strings
in tlfe whole political sphere. Big John sits still
and holds back most of the time, wlifle his spouse,
like Lauri with the rake m lhe Orchid, does all
the untidy work.
“ The hawk-nosed Ex. of this State has now a
private secretary • with a similar hawky feature.
Captain Buxton has not the automatic step or
gait of the true and tried Y.R. caddie. H « has
jauntiness that somehow looks improper in the
Talbot company. When a pal bails kmup his
aideship relaxes, and he looks bke slapping
Chawley on the back and saying, What hos deah
boy!’ Captain Buxton badly wants the Better-
Not cast-iron demeanor.
“Just as Society was taking the recent.hint of
the Yank papers as to Miss President
love of candy, word reaches Prime Munster
Deakin that that child of fortune will not com
this way after all. And now candy is a drug m
the market.
“Mr. and Mrs. Blackwood returned from a
European gad the other day. The dame is t
daughter of the veteran Mr. Hamilton, founder
of the Melbourne Club. The founder is over four
score, and was fullof vigor and heartiness till a little
while ago. His early Victorian squatterconstitm
tion will probably pull him through to the
century. .
“ Mrs. George Tallis limped into Her Majesty s
for the ‘ Ingomar ’ show. After recovering almost
miraculously from an illness * hat
killed the ordinary feminine (who mainl {
from imaginitis), she tripped down a st ¥ rca »e
with the smallest infant of the household m her
arms. She managed to save the child from hurt,
buTinjured her own knee. Now it slowly mends,
and the chirpy dame trusts that her ill-luck is
over. ,
“Miss Charlotte Hemming supplied more
Enoch Arden recitals to a choice gathering at the
Masonic Hall last week, having sufficiently re-
covered from a bad injury to her funny bone to
brandish the arm elocutionary. Some persuasive
Strauss strains backed the recitals. Miss Sugden
(daughter of Argus critic Sugden) supplied these
(her pa says) satisfactorily.
(Continued on pane 32.)


RHEUMATI
Purely a Blood Disease.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
The Only Sure Cure.
RHEUMATISM and good blood can’t live
together. You put an end to your
Rheumatism the moment you make your
blood good with Dr. Wilburns’ Pink Pills.
They actually make new blood—blood that is pure
and rich and red and strong. That is the simple
scientific reason why nothing but Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills can cure Rheumatism.
Rheumatism is a disease of the blood, simply
and solely. Any doctor will tell you that. All
the cold and exposure in the world can never
really give you Rheumatism. Cold only sets the
pains going. The real cause of those pains is
Rheumatic acid in the blood. This crippling acid
stiffens the muscles, eats into the joints, and
inflames the nerves. Every day it will cripple
and torture you till you drive the aching poison
out of vour blood—and nothing can possibly drive
that poison out except Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
You can never get this rheumatic acid out of
your system with hot cloths or liniments or with
anything else that doesn’t touch the blood. These
things only make the poison circulate better. They
may seem to ease your pain for the moment —but
they are really doing you more harm than good.
They cannot possibly cure you. Nothing can
cure you till you fill your veins with good rich
blood—and Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills alone contain
the very elements that go to make new, pure,
rich, red blood. This new blood sweeps out the
rheumatic acid, loosens your muscles, soothes your
nerves, and gives you back the use of your stiff and
burning joints. Rheumatism and Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills simply can not live together.
“ I don’t know anyone who ever had Rheuma-
tism worse,” said Mrs. Burrowes, Holly Cottage,
31 Arcadia Road, Glebe Point, Sydney. “My
whole system was filled with painful poison. The
agony I suffered was intense. But, thanks to
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, I don’t know what
Rheumatism is now. They drove all the aching
acid out of my blood, and made me a strong and
active woman when I thought I was crippled for
life. .
“ For two years I was never free from Rheuma-
tism,” Mrs. Burrowes went on. “ Some muscles
were stiff as if they had been bruised —in others I
had cramp-like pains that almost made me cry with
agony. Sometimes the pain was more than I
could bear. For months I didn’t know what it
was to get a night’s sleep. Even if I did doze off,
I woke in the middle of the night suffering pain
that can never be described. My legs and knees
were swollen to twice their size. And my hands
were so bent and twisted that I could not hold a
needle.
“ The doctor said the Rheumatism was brought
on through overwork. I took his medicine and
rubbed myself sore with liniments—but they didn’t
give me any ease from my pain. Nothing did me
the least good till I took Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills.
“ A few days after starting Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills I felt wonderfully better in some strange
way. I could not explain j ust what it was —but
I was better,” continued Mrs. Burrowes. “ Then
I got a grand appetite. Soon I noticed that the
rheumatic pains and stiffness were not nearly so
bad. Before long I was able to get a good sleep.
At last every trace of Rheumatism was driven out
of my blood. To-day I am in perfect health.
When Dr. William’s Pink Pills cured me I don’t
believe there ever was a case of Rheumatism that
they could not cure. They saved me from being
crippled for life.”
By their direct action on the blood, Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills cure all blood diseases like
anaemia, backache, biliousness, consumption (when
not too far gone), debility, eczema, failing powers,
indigestion, kidney disease, liver complaint,
nervousness, neuralgia, partial paralysis, rheuma-
tism, sciatica, and the secret suffering that many
an honorable woman bears in silence. But you
must get the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People. If anyone tries to-force some substi-
tute upon you send for the genuine kind direct to
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, 2s. 9d. a
box, six boxes 15s. 3d., post free.
* WILLIAMS 9
rr%!N&
il Bills
FOR
ALE
EOPLE
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A Brisbane comp, set it up thusly : “He
was also at this time infested with the order of
C.M.G.”
The Princess of Wales has given birth to
another child, the sixth. They patriotically guard
the succession to the throne, these Royal folk.
Last day of June was a busy one for Prime
Minister Deakin. He first ejected G. H. Reid
from office, and then rushed off to give away his
daughter in marriage.
In all probability Queensland Senator
Drake will not face the Northern Democrats next
election. His recent appearance around his old
haunts with the shandygaff Premier was the last
straw.
Ex-solicitor Horwitz, now in Pentridge
gaol, is reading up theology, with a view, he says,
to starting a new religion when he gets out.
“There is nothing like a new religion to make
money at for a smart man,” he observes.
Died a few days ago, Edward Latham,
founder (40 years ago) of the Carlton (Melb.)
Brewery, aged 66 years. Mr. Latham was a strong
Church of England man, and made himself notable
once by a huge subscription to a home for indi-
gent parsons.
There are but two lawyers in the new
Commonwealth Government —Alfred Deakin and
Isaac Alfred Isaacs. Deakin is the son of a
Fitzroy (Melb.) coach proprietor, and was born in
that suburb. Isaacs was born at Beechworth, and
is the son of a tailor.
“ O’Fipp ” : To save further mistakes, I
wish to inform The Bulletin that the president
of the Women’s Gnash-’em-all League is not
Mrs. Janet Clarke, but Janet Mrs. Clarke. Also,
the leader of the Victorian Woman-Suffragists is
Vida Miss Goldstein.
Wife of H. Minmah, of Murwillumbah
(N.S.W.), presented her husband, t’other day,
with the 20th child. There are still some fine
families in Australia. Ex-M.L. A. “ Baldy ” Davis
(N.S.W.) is said to have 24 children, most of them
big strapping adults now.
Recent decision of the High Court in the
case of T. M. Slattery, in which the Chief Justice
said that there were gaps in the law which it was
not the duty of the Judges to fill, recalls that two
members of the Court were for some time Law
Officers in N.S.W. and yet didn’t see to it that
those “gaps” were filled.
Mr. W. N. Willis, the land agent whom
some people are desperately eager to see the last
of, is still at Perth (W.A.), fighting hard against
a return to N.S.W. in custody of the police.
He states that he is anxious to come back to
N.S.W. to clear up everything, but he resents
being dragged back.
GASTON MERVALE, Actor.
Mr. Harry Stockdale, one of the few re-
maining members of the band of Australian
pioneer explorers, has for some time past been
seriously ill at his residence, Bunnerong-road,
Lilyville. Mr. Stockdale’s fortunes are not flourish-
ing, and a recognition of his past work by old
friends would not be now amiss.
Mrs. D. French, a resident of the quiet,
old-fashioned town of Montefiore, on the Mac-
quarie River (N.S.W.) died last week aged, on
pretty good evidence, 105 years. It is only in
very quiet towns, dead towns —in fact in the very
deadest towns —that people seem to drift along to
these unfathomable wastes of years.
Died last week at Brisbane, “Sam,” or
“Puttingga,” the last of the Brisbane tribe of
aborigines. For some years he was a member of
the native mounted police in N.Q. He is men-
tioned in Tom Petrie’s “Reminiscences of Queens-
land.” He and Petrie played as boys together in
the bad old days of early Brisbane.
This paper mentioned lately, re the need of
an automatic marine stoker, that some eight years
ago Geo. Clavdon assured Sydney shipping co’s
that he had solved the riddle, but that since then
he had faded away. The long-lost inventor writes
from Christchurch (M.L.) that lie has been silently
making improvements, which he has patented
everywhere, and that he intends to soon strike
Sydney with them.
The Bulletin is informed by Mr. H. A.
Brandt, solicitor, Melbourne, that the par re
artist Nerli, once a resident of Sydney (6/7/’O5), is
not correct, and that the Marquis Pieri Nerli is
still alive, and residing in Italy. This paper is
glad to hear it and sorry for the error. Neither
the Marquis Nerli, it is stated, nor any of his
family has ever been afflicted with any mental
derangement.
From a Perth man :
Maitland Brown, who died in Westralia the other
day, was not, as often printed, a brother-in-law of Bigjohn
Forrest’s. Uigjohn married a Miss Hamersley. Brown
was a good, kind-hearted soul, and was \*ery hospitable
to t’othersib jrs passing through Geraldton in the early
days of the Murchison goldfields. Also he had a fine col-
lection of old coins, bottles, glasses, blunderbusses, and
other relics from Dutch vessels wrecked on Houtman’s
Abrolhos Islands, some 30 miles from Geraldton, nearly
300 years ago.
Re depriving a Supreme Court Judge
of his office. In November, 1837, J. Wal-
pole Willis, a man reputed to be of some
ability in England, and with influence
there, was commissioned to N.S.W. with
the rank of Second Puisine Judge, and
was, on arrival, sent to Melbourne (then
Port Phillip), where he officiated as first
Judge. He was something of an eccentric,
and prided himself, on saying just what he
thought. As he thought at right angles to
most people’s thoughts, hot water was his
regular element, but the Judge liked hot
water. He was reported to the N.S.W.
Government, not for neglect of duty or in-
competence, but for bad temper, vulgar
expressions and guffawing in the faces of
the leaders of Port Phillip society, and was
removed from office in November, 1842.
Philp, Queensland’s almost forgotten
Premier, was a hold vote-canvasser in early
days. He and E. J. Bamfield, then a press-
man, came to the Barron River on one occa-
sion. They knew there were some votes
for the snatching at the other side, but the
river was a banker fully half-a-mile across,
and timber all sizes tumbled along. Still
those votes fascinated Philp, and he deter-
mined to get them, though he went for them
naked. He peeled off at the foot of a gum.
Bamfield, being a pressman, was a bit shy,
but the barbaric Philp yelled him into sub-
jection, and in a few minutes, with duds
strapped to their heads, the pair took to
the river. Philp got the votes—the voters
felt they had to give them—and thus he
won his first election.
“ Truthibus ” : Saw in a recent issue
a paragraph that even a laugh like Pea-
cock’s has its uses. It also has its draw-
backs. Was working in a house in Flin-
ders-lane. One day the boss, transacting
business with the Peacock, showed him over
the place with a proud air, got him to the
first floor and made a joke. Peacock had
just finished his last “ha, ha,” when up
the lift bole from the packing room came a
mad echo—stronger, heartier and with more
of the devil in it than the original. It
floated up that well and filled the whole
house. Result, half a fit of apoplexy for
the boss, a cold and dignified silence on
the part of the Peacock, and the “boot”
on the spot for the junior packer.
Judge G. C. Heydon, the new President
of N.S.W. Arbitration Court, is a native of
Sydney, born at 78 King-street (Hoadley’s Build-
ings), where his father, Jabez Heydon, carried on
the business of an auctioneer. Subsequently
Jabez Heydon became a pawnbroker and Aus-
tralian agent for Holloway’s pills and ointment,
and later he was proprietor of the Freeman’s
Journal, and owned much city property.
Dr. Dunne, R.C. Bishop of Wilcannia
(N.S.W.), should acquire merit as a much-travelled
ecclesiastic. He resides at Broken Hill, and his
diocese includes the town of Bourke, 300 miles
north. It is his custom to refresh himself
quarterly by making a journey of 2000 miles—
from Broken Hill to Adelaide, thence to Mel-
bourne, Sydney, Bourke, and back.
A letter from “ Jim Croker ” :
Mr. Bullytin i hope you will have the commun sens to
put this in yor piper, f dont see you have so much to say
aginst mr. read because the pure feller dont know what
er. e’s a good man in mi hidee wich can’t be said of
them wich aint arf as good as e is and dont know arf as
much as e does about the fiskel polzy wich could not be
sunk wile there is eny munny in circulashun to keep it
floatin, the polzy i mean, not mr. read, pure feller he’s
sunk thanks to your bullyrag, but he’ll rise agin like a
sfinks out of is ashes leastways the weakly or rether
DAILY tallycraft will try to help him to. then u will
snort like a railway enjin.
A letter from Melbourne :
With an election among the early possibilities, the
trimmers and ratters of the Reps, are having a most un-
comfortable time attending district social and religious
functions under all the inconveniences of half-eaten meals,
bad digestion, colds, croup, &c., in order to preserve their
seats. Rail-sitter , of Victoria, finds himself com-
pelled to hustle in spite of girth and wind. He went to a
banquet, the other evening, but hearing a whisper that a
late opponent would take the chair at a religious meeting
“in the unavoidable absence of our member,” he left
before dessert, and the religious gathering rubbed its
eyes at the sight of an over-grown collection of grease and
want of breath, in expansive dress suit, apparently chew-
ing a piece of half-eaten turkey, pushing for the platform
in the very nick of time. Once more the seat was saved !
Deceased P. N. Russell was an exacting
boss, and treated business as a religion. As his
father’s right-hand man in the foundries in Queen’s
Place, Sydney, he began at a time when most of
the workers were a sorry, and some a criminal lot,
and Russell’s notion was that, by giving them law-
ful employment, he commanded them mind and
body. In after years, when the business attained
vast proportions, he tried to live up to the same
principles, but met snags in the form of better
men and union men. In a fit of dudgeon he shut
up shop, and told the workers to starve. Withal,
old Peter had good features. His main fault was
that he was incapable of realising that the man
who worked for another could think for himself.
SHORTLY TO BE ERECTED.
Statue to commemorate the New South Wales
Lands Administration.
Rev. James Cheong, the anti-opium crusa-
der in Australia, is a Church of Englander, and
son of a Church of England Chinese. He showed
himself a smart youth while attending classes in
Melbourne University, and managed to take
honors with his degrees. Then he went to Oxford
to learn the one and only true , bleat, and was
ordained with a great flapping of garments by the
Bishop of Rochester. There is no more gentle-
manly or gentlemanly-looking parson in Aus-
tralasia than Mr. Cheong.
“F.” : Apropos military titles (B. 15/6/’O5).
This is the way the military business was run in
Sydney in 1844. “ Military staff stationed in
Sydney, N.S.W. His Excellency, Lieutenant-
General Sir M. C. O'Connell, Commanding the
Forces ; Captain M. C. O’Connell, 28th Regiment,
Assistant Military Secretary; Captain E. M.
O’Connell, 99th Regiment, Major of Brigade ;
Lieutenant W. B. J. O’Connell, 73rd Regiment,
Aide-de-Camp : Ensign C. P. 0 Connell, 51st
Regiment, Extra Aide-de-camp.” Capt. M. C.
O’Connell was born in Sydney Barracks, George-
street, in 1812. When he retired from the army
he took to politics and was an unsuccessful candi-
date at the first election (1843) for his native city.
Afterwards O’Connell was returned for Port
Phillip without a canvass. He pitched his tent in
Queensland, and dabbled in politics there, being a
Minister without portfolio for three months in
1860, and President of the Legislative Council for
19 years from 1860 to 1879.
Alleged that Warton, whom the Queens-
land Executive didn’t save, from the gallows, to
which he was condemned in connection with the
Toowong murder, is identical with Butler, who
was about the keenest and most notorious criminal
the Maoriland police ever struggled with. If he
hadn’t had a mental kink of some sort his remark-
able abilities would have made him a land
agent. Butler’s first “big” affair was in Vic-
toria ; in his first 16 years there, and before
he was 25, he had got through sentences amount-
ing altogether to 13 years. In Maoriland (where
he had sentences of over 30 years) he once made
a six-hours’ address to a jury (when accused of the
murder of a woman and her two children) and got
himself off. Between times he was school-teacher,
reporter, and lecturer ; and once he combined
Sunday-school teaching and burgling. But his
vanity was his weak point; he told the police far
too much, having an idea that if he couldn’t get
round the jury he could beat the Judge. As to
the latter, the effort he was proudest of was when
he satisfied Justice Williams, of Maoriland, that
he was a first offender, and this after his Vic-
torian career. He must have received sentences
amounting, on paper, to well over 60 years.
Journalist J. D. Woods, dead at Adelaide,
aged 71, began his career as a reporter in the
House of Commons. His-father and eldest
brother were both London Times men ; latter
afterwards came to Melbourne and became leader
of the Argus Parliamentary staff. Among other
journalistic work Woods compiled the official
account of Edinburgh’s Adelaide visit, and an
historical account, under Government authority,
of South Australia from its discovery up to 1892.
He was for many years electoral returning officer
for East Torrens.
John Medway Hay, who lately died at
Hobart, aged 67, held the sad office of editor of
the Tasmanian Mail in his latter days. Day
came to South. Australia in 1866 and for some
years tried ministering to a Baptist flock. He
wearied of the narrowness of the Dippers and
joined the staff of the Register, where he
remained for 17 years. In ’93 he stood for
Gumeracha in the State Parliament elections, but
was defeated. Gumeracha wanted something
heavy that would make a good paper-weight, and
it put the stolid Ilomburg at the top of the poll.
Medway Day left S.A. after that, and trod the
inky way in the Eastern States for the balance of
his days. That a man of his ability should have
carried the Tasmanian Mail on his shoulders was
a tragedy suggestive of Shelley lumping on a
wharf.
“ Synic ” writes :
Reading your disrespectful comments upon Pursy
Chirnside and his C.M.G. degree, 1 shuddered as one
shudders at an uncalled-for blasphemy or a serpent.
The true meaning of the C.M.G. (with or without the
titulary K) has been somewhat obscured by its application
to politicians and mere flunkeys. Nevertheless it con-
tinues to signify “ the reward of money.” The man who,
being possessed of wealth, chooses to splash a little of it
around in what is called a public-spirited manner, earns
the right to be C.M.G.’d. Pursy Chirnside is such a man.
He has provided the whole or part of the cash required
for building churches of various conflicting Christian
denominations. His cheque-book is non-sectarian. He
has built a school in the Wyndham (Vied district; the
Melbourne Hospital got £5OO from him ; a half-battery of
artillery cost him £i5,000, and his contributions towards
the encouragement of militarism for national defence
have been not unworthy of a large proputtv owner. In
that respect one may think of Pursy as a staunch self
protectionist. He deserves no actual credit for
possessing the means to do these financial deeds,
but he shines by comparison with those equally
fortunate mortals who refrain from doing like-
wise. Rupert Clarke, with an inherited baronetcy, is
a supporter of little else than the turf. The Manifolds,
whose sheep runs block the way to closer settlement in
the bounteous Western District of Vic., are niggardly
where Pursy Chirnside is open-handed. The Werribee
land monopolist can afford to do it, and he does it. Some
of the others can better afford to do it, but they don’t.
Let us wish citizen Pursy joy of his bauble, for just what
it is worth, nothing exaggerating nor setting down aught
in malice. We may deplore the fact that baubles are per-
mitted in our should-be democratic country, but as long
as such things are possible to the Pursy class, we can
very well affect to treat them as rewards of negative merit
in the men who pay a fair price for them. In the king-
dom of close-fisted capitalists a moderately 7 generous one
deserves any distinction he can get. Unfortunately we
cannot cast ridicule on the poor little bauble without
giving the stingy men an excuse for doing nothing to
attract attention to their wealth. They pretend to be
mean from motives of modesty.
Albert Goldberg, formerly of the West
Australian, Melb.
Argus, and other
journals of this
land, had the luck
to strike a big scoop
over the Equitable
Life troubles in
New York, and, on
the strength of it,
was appointed asso-
ciate editor of the
Insurance Jour-
nal of New York.
Goldberg left Aus-
tralia as a member
of Janet Waldorf's
ill - fated dramatic
co. and expei'ienced
a multitude of ad-
ventures on vari-
ous shores of the
Pacific. In Aus-
tralia he was known
as*young man with
a knack of falling
on his feet, and his
luck seems to have
followed him. If
Goldberg were to
be stranded on Sa-
turn, he would pro-
bably be appointed
stipendiary referee
REV. J. YOUNG WAl-
a Chinese clergyman of
Sydney—who was elected
this year to he the
moderator of the Presby-
terian Assembly, but de-
clined the honor of being
Dill Macky’s successor.
of all its rings at a large salary inside of 24 hours.
A victim of the testimonial craze con-
sulted a solicitor the other day about proceeding
at law against admirers who put down their
names for substantial sums and failed to pay
up. The victim says he stood them innumerable
drinks and several hotel dinners while the testi-
monial list was going round, and even if they paid
up he would be nothing in pocket by their friend-
ship. What specially angers him is that some of
those admirers have now started out to raise
a testimonial for a bitter political rival.


If your muscles ache it may be your blood.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cures rheumatism. If you
need a bracing tonic for general exhaustion—
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best in the world.*
CULLER’S
GENUINE SWISS
MILK CHOCOLATE.
Write to-day for
FREE SAMPLE
and Particulars of
our
Great Prize
COMPETITION
REMEMBER THE NAME! Names are hard to retain
but the Taste of Cailler’s Chocolate is impossible to
forget. It ‘tastes like more’
SEND US YOUR ADDRESS and we’ll mail you a
dainty sample that will make you a Cailler man, woman
or child, for life. No Chocolate in the world is so rich,
so pure, or so delicious as Cailler’s—pure Chocolate and
pu“« Swiss Milk is the reason.
Address: CAILLER’S, Mutual Life Building, Martin Place, SYDNEY.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH,
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHINERY
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE OLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
A word from a Darling River selector
about a man who hasn’t been having too good a
time lately:—
Edward MacFarlane, now Under Sec. for Lands (N.S. W.),
and a frequent witness before the Lauds Commission,
was for some years recently Chairman of Land Boards out
here. He used to put in some good work for us small
men (t.e., homestead lessees). The squatters invariably
had a lawyer to appear for them. This was a luxury we
could not afford. But the moment the lawyer bullied or
bounced, “old Mac,” who had the Lands Act and prece-
dents off pat, would come to the rescue, and the lawyer
would have to climb down. By the way, the really best
clause fop the small man in Crick's Western Lands Act
is the one doing away with lawyers and red-tapeism.
“Old Mac” was a stickler for etiquette. His dignity
many a time came near getting him down and worrying
him.
Call to mind (as a side issue) Mac. questioning an old
fellow re the carrying capacity of his lease. “ And what
kinds of grass grow on your lease ? ” “Eh ? ” queried the
old fellow—he was a bit deaf. Mae. repeated the ques-
tion. “Ay, dioh, what kind of grasses'? Well, there’s
porkypine, and mallee, and turpentine, and Darling pea,
and various ither grasses.” Of course the old fellow was
going in for a reduction of rent.
Again, the Board wanted to know how one applicant
proposed working the lease that he was applying for.
Applicant, a (German : “ I indend to grow heabs and
heabs of lucerne an’ stuff to feed mein horses.” “But
what are you going to use your horses for? ” questioned
MacFarlane. “Mein Gott, kandt you see I geep mein
horses to eadt up mein lucerne? ”
A FEARFUL MISTAKE.
“Ah, so you're the little man who put sixpence
in the plate, last Sunday.”
“O I am glad you remember it wuz me. ’Cos I
wanted ter arst yer for it back again, ’cos I
put it in by mistake for a cronk one.”
“ Dico ” : lie proceshing caterpillars men-
tioned by “Cronje” (B. 15/(i/’O5). Have often
come across them in the Mallee, out west of
Hopetoun (Vie.); but the length of procession
was invariably much greater than “ Cronje’s.”
They were of a light slate-color, and travelled in
such an unbroken line that a casual observer would
easily mistake them for one long gray worm.
Never took any measurements, but have seen a
file crossing a road, leader on one side of wheel-
tracks and last man on the other ; so length must
have been about 7ft. The strangest thing about
them was a fine, silky thread, running the whole
length of the line, and left behind as they travelled,
like a wake. This was only visible in strong sun-
light, or when the line was broken, as its silkiness
quickly faded. If a couple of caterpillars were
removed from the middle, the others never
stopped to make inquiries. Hind part just moved
up till line of communication was restored ; then
off they went. Never once saw them halt for a
spell, though they moved fairly fast —for cater-
pillars.
“Xerxes” : Have measured heaps of ’roo
jumps, and have kept lots of tame ’roos. The usual
jump while going to feed or water is only from
3ft. to sft Medium-sized animals at full speed
average 21ft. I verified this by repeated trials
till I got tired. On Arajol Station saw a,
very large ’roo clear the head of a fallen tree by a
jump 39ft. in length and over Bft. in height. Poor
beggar was caught in about ten more jumps—
please don’t let your writers call them “hops.”
* * * *
“ W.P.8.”: Before aboriginaliars are
allowed to become rude to one another, please
allow me to have a say on sleeping out at night.
Once I accidentally got drunk on whisky, and
slept in a park with the slip-rails down. The
thermometer was four or five yards below zero at
the time. I don’t know how long I was there,
but I woke up on account of the draught, and
when I collected a few of my scattered senses
shuffled home to my bed, which was touring round
the room. When it came round to me I boarded.
I stayed there for three weeks, and there was
nearly one ass less in the world. Perhaps some
rhinoceros or other commercial traveller will now
write to say that I didn’t sleep out long enough,
and if T had stayed in the park all night all would
have been well. If so, please tear his letter in
two pieces.
* * * *
“ Quidam’s ” complaint :
“ Dave H.R.” (B. 6/7/’O5) rails at “Cronje”(B. 15/6/’O5)
for killing a caterpillar instead of treating him kindly,
and then goes on to say “ Cronje’s ” species of caterpillar
strips all bark and leaves from a tree, and makes large,
itching, red lumps on your neck if he falls down it.
Where's the sense in chancing big, red lumps in order to
treat caterpillars kindly ? If you want to be kind, why
not start by providing afternoon tea for the Devil?
* • * #
“ Erip ” : Another danger threatens
Northern Victoria. During the period of the
mice plague thousands of cats flocked from the
South. Every day, hordes of cats could be seen
dropping their swags and getting to work on the
mic3. While the mouse-food was plentiful they
grew to an enormous size and became bloated
cats. The mice have suddenly evaporated, and
the cats are starving. They are just commencing
to move about in bands, and farmers are losing
large numbers of sheep and cattle. They have not
yet been known to attack human beings, but that
may come. In fact, the time may arrive when
the beleaguered householder will look out despair-
ingly on a moving landscape of hostile cats come
to tear down his premises and eat all the
inhabitants and the bedstead.
* * * *
Up Ingham (Q.) way, where the “ peaceful
and harmless Kanaka” (ride Senator Dobson)
pervades the land, a selector’s daughter, aged 14,
went down the main road, the other day, for her
father’s horse. About 400yds. from her home two
Kanakas came out from behind a bush, and one
seized the girl while the other kept watch. The
plucky child fought for life and honor, screamed
for help, and hit the nigger a swinging blow across
his mouth with the horse-harnes. Her cries
brought white men from the fields (fortunately
there are still white men in the fields) and the two
niggers crept into the scrub. Next day the girl
identified one by the mark of the hames. The
other got off for want of identification. As the child
could prove only the laying on of hands, the Kanaka
could be sentenced for nothing nfore than common
assault, and got two months in gaol. All this
happened in hroad daylight. Not long since, in
the same district, a young girl school teacher was
waylaid going home in the afternoon, ravished,
murdered, and mutilated in a truly dreadful way,
and notwithstanding a reward of £*soo, her mur-
derers walk the land unknown. Now the women
up that way are arming themselves. Senator
Dobson should engage a few of these gentle inno-
cents to keep watch and ward over his female
relatives and friends when he leaves them at
home as he goes forth to preach the virtues of a
black Australia.
# * *
“Burrowong” : Re old Sofala, mentioned
in a recent issue of Bulletin. The old town in
its palmy days was a wild and hairy place, with
29 pubs, 26 stores (including nine run bv Chows),
and other trades in like profusion. Thisiswlieie
Larry Foley first made a name as a lad. Old
Steve Swain, uncle of Emily Soldene, backed
Larry in the backyard of his pub. to beat three
other lads, one after the other. The three were
not “on,” however. There Bill Day, the bush-
ranger, carried an anvil weighing 3cwt. 91b. from
his blacksmith’s shop to Steve Swain’s for a wager
of £lO, the distance being nearly three-quarters of
a mile. The late A. G. Taylor’s mother was a
native of Sofala. R. D. Meagher’s father was
sergeant in charge of the gold escort. Walter
Hickenbotham, the veteran trainer, first saw the
light there. Poor old Quong Tart learned a great
deal at Sofala ; and James Rutherford (Cobh and
Co.) made thousands with his coaches up that
way. Tom Coyle, one of the pioneer drivers over
the Wyagdon and Monkey hills, afterwards drove
on the Towers (Q.), and is, I believe, now a
wealthy man. Also, Fitzgerald brothers (of circus
fame) were born at Wattle Flat, four miles away
from the once-great gold camp which is now a
pauper.
* * * ■*
“L.C.”: “ Hamer’s ” cynical remarks on
the fidelity of the dog (B. 8/6/’O5) are right as far
as they go—which is about half-way. A man’s
dog differs from his master only in degree. If the
master is a cad, the dog will be a cad. If the
master is a gentleman, he won’t own a dog that
isn’t a gentleman—at least a gentledog—likewise.
Given a good breed, you can impart every manly
quality to the canine nature; and you can utterly
spoil the best-pedigreed tyke. R. L. Stevenson
observed a dog that enjoyed the patting of an ape
equally with that of human beings; but that dog
surely was of the low-down, uneducated order,
and in favor of colored immigration.
BARGAINING.
BIRD SELLER: “ I'll let you have this fine bird
for seven-an-six.”
FANCIER (slightly deaf): “I'll gi’ ye fifteen
shillun’ for it.”
BIRO SELLER (shouting): “I said seven-an'-six,
not seventeen-an’-six.”
FINANCTER : “Man, I'll gi' ye fire shillun'.”
BIRD SELLER (dropping' to it): “I said twenty-
seven-an'-six! What are ye talkin' about!”
FANCTER : “I couldn't gi' more than a pound."
“ Pelican ” : Where did the wild duck,
swan, pelican, etc., get to during the big drought ?
Recently out west (N.S.W.). particularly round
Nyngan and Mullengudgery, there have been
tens of thousands of the birds. And their appear-
ance was made immediately after the second good
fall of rain. They couldn’t have been hatched
out in the time.
■***-*■
“Ran” writes: —One of Queensland’s
richest assets is the Atherton scrub country,
which extends from a little to the north of Ingham
to a point some distance north of Cairns. This
belt of rich, volcanic soil, reaching an alti-
tude of 2(>ooft. above sea level, and covered
with a dense jungle of valuable timbers, is,
perhaps, the richest unalienated area in
Australia. It is estimated to contain over
2,000,000 acres of valuable land, capable of
supporting over 200,000 people engaged in
primary industries, who would, in turn, sup-
port tens of thousands more. The Tory
advocate, in his desire to plead for the
Kanaka, has in the past unhesitatingly de-
clared N.Q. to be a place unlit for wh.te
men because of the climate. He made no
exceptions, not even this delightful table-
land country which possesses a climate equal
to that of Toowoomba and Warwick, and
nearly as cool as Katoomba’s. Even past
Queensland Governments did not realise the
enormous wealth which lies latent in tins
northern patch. The cedar-getter started to
exploit the rich timber years ago, and, to
serve his ends, got some of the country
thrown open as selections. After he had
skinned the timber, he generally leased his
holding to the Chows. Some attention is
now being directed to the place because
of its enormous dairying possibilities. But
the Government should turn the key in the
padlock until it can get the right class of
settlers, and it should see that a condition
of future sales (if there must be sales) is that
the mongrel races must get no more foot-
ing than they enjoy at present.
Had a boy working for me
who had a lot of warts on his hands. I set him to
pulling the plant known as deadly night shade
from among some potatoes. In three days the
warts had disappeared.
“ J. W.” :
The crow’s intel-
ligence is pro-
verbial, and his
mental develop-
ment seems to
have reached
that stage that
enables him to
count som e—
probably as
many as the
blackfellow. We
were a party of
four, dugongfish-
ing, in the early
sixties at the
southern end of
Wide Bay. The
place on the
beach where we
landed the du-
gong prepara-
tory to “ trying
ut ” the oil lay
just within gun
shot of our
i.umpy. On e
day, by a lucky
shot through a
loophole, we
knocked over a
crow busy feed-
ing on a carcase.
To encou rage
others, we hung
the body in a tree
some 30 yards
further along the
beach. The serio-
comic funeral
service that took
place soon after-
wardsbaffles des-
cription t h e
mournful caw-
comical
twistings of the
head, the hop-
ping of the
mourners from
branch to branch
round the body.
We tried careful
stalking, but the crows
in the tree could apparent-
ly judge distance as well as our-
selves, and we failed to get within gunshot.
O '.e day we happened to go in the opposite
direction, and on our return the crows were busy
at the carcase. As we approached they took up
their usual station in the tree. A happy thought
occurred to us. First one quitted the humpy and
went off in an opposite direction from the tree ;
presently another, a little later a third, leaving out*
with the gun at the loophole. Plenty of cawing in
the tree, but no descent upon the carcase. Then
the one with the pun left and down came the
crows. We tried another dodge. Four would go
out, three return, and so on, ringing the changes
quickly, until at last only one remained. There
was a fierce cawing and discussion in the tree, and
I could see the crows calculating on their claws
how many had gone and how many had returned,
and shaking their heads suspiciously. Only one
foolish crow figured it out that we had all gone,
and backed his"opinion by settling on the dugong.
1 Lis death happened soon after, and we never got
a chance to shoot another crow.
* * * *
The minali, introduced from Tasmania
into North Queensland in the hope that it would
war against the cattle-tick, has done good work.
It follows the cattle to their camping-places, and,
walking over the animals, gets to business. The
same fill'd is proving* useful on the farms, where
it joins forces with the ibis to keep the cockchafer
grub in check.
THE MANNERS OF POLITE SOCIETY.
SAL: “ That's Bitsto. He ain't no class. Ne[?]
see ’im lift ’is lid excep ’e mints ter serail
’is ’ed.”
BIG BLOCK, THE PIONEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne Argus has coined a fine impressive name for
its friend, the bloated pastoralist. He is “ the Pioneer
of Settlement.”
The Pioneer of Settlement,
He gets his acres cheap :
He dedicates the grassy land
To cattle and to sheep ;
And fondly, from his homestead snug,
He views the prospect drear,
For he’s the settler thereabouts,
He wants no others near.
The flocks and herds that roam the earth
Bear witness to his solid worth ;
Dame Nature smiles in bitter mirth
At Block, the Pioneer.
The Pioneer of Settlement,
lie squats upon the soil,
And draws his profit from the needs
Of them who daily toil,
Whilst tens of thousands fight for food,
For food that is so dear.
The value of his vast estate
Is growing year by year.
He shows no light, he makes no track.
For toiler Tim and toiler Jack ;
His station fences keep them ha ik
lie s Block, the Pioneer.
VIC.
E.F.


Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT.
S*- Buy Whole Bottles. *9)
“ Gip ” : Talking about what bushmen
will eat. Not long ago old Jim Evans returned
home after a big spree to find his hut in darkness
and the cupboard empty. He was very hungry,
likewise very drunk. He might have shot a
rabbit, but it was too dark ; also he was too drunk.
After some consideration he took the butchering
knife and went over to where Bawly, one of the
working bullocks, fed quietly, and applied the
knife to the root of Bawly's tail. By the time he’d
cut in a bit, Bawly was indignant, and started off
at a gallop. Jim hung on for three times round
the paddock, getting a cut in every now and then.
At the fourth lap the tail came away, and Jim lit
a fire and cooked and ate it. He talks about the
feat as if it were something to be proud of.
You may talk about Niagara,
And rave of quaint Japan ;
Quote the Trans-Siberian railway
As the greatest work of man.
Not even the greatest Colossus
Can such pride of place secure,
As the famous cough reliever
Known as Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
YOUR
RING
PURCHASE
is an anxiety unless you know the
house to buy it at.
We are the Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
«L9S?JSI
15et. Gold Setting',
5 Opals,
30 -
Marquise Ring,
Diamonds and Sapphires.
£l2 12s.
Special Diamonds,
our own make,
We must have done rings well, or else the discriminating public would not have supported us for so lona-.
Good rings are valuable as Art productions first, and afterwards for the perfection of their gems.
WE EfIPLOY ART RING MAKERS.
We know the best way to buy, and we prevent all intermediate profits.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“ Rei ” : Vic. law for the protection of
harmless native fauna is a dead letter in many
parts of the State, with the result that in some
places native bears and lyre birds have entirely
disappeared. One Melbourne skin and hide mer-
chant sets forth on his published price-list a warn-
ing that bears are protected all the year round,
and on the same page offers a price for their skins,
being thus a law-breaker—as a receiver of illicit
goods—as much as the shooter, whom he warns to
sneak behind a tree should a bobby heave in sight.
The law, to be consistent, should deal with the
merchant who advertises prices for the skins of
protected animals, or on whose premises such
skins are found.
■X- ■X" ->r -X-
-“ Nym ” : As soon as the dead timber has
been removed from the Waranga (Vic.) Basin
storage area, it is intended to let the water into
the Basin from the Goulburn though the inlet
channel now completed. What a splendid refuge
this would make for the native wildfowl, now
battered ’twixt sky and earth on the opening of
each slaughter season ! Bent should see that this
spot is kept sacred to the feathered tribes of the
waterways ; likewise (for several years, at least) as
a breeding ground for our native fish.
“ Yarrum ” : Had rather exciting experi-
ence here (Newcastle way) t’other morning. Took
ray rifle down to the sea to have a shot at a por-
poise. Couldn’t see one anywhere, so decided to
have a go at dark object on rocks along the beach,
500 yd. off. Thought it was an old cask, or a
fish basket. Had two shots, and missed badly, in
consequence of strong wind blowing at the time,
Was annoyed, as I rarely miss anything, and was
preparing for another try, when the object got up
and moved towards me. It was a newly-married
couple under an umbrella. I fainted, and am still
insensible.
* * * *
“ Harry S.” writes :
Re the length of Australian snakes. I herewith submit
for your inspection a snake skin which, before being de-
prived of head and portion of tail, measured over 20ft.
[Skin, as submitted, measured 15ft. long by 9£in. greatest
girth.—Ed. B.) “ Werrimee ” quotes Krefft as saying that
“ An Australian rock snake of 10 or 11 feet must be con-
sidered a monster,” but 1 have several times seen northern
pythons of even double that length, fairly measured by
tape, neither “ stock-whip nor Bill’s feet ” being handy at
the time. In Queensland these monster snakes are often
found coiled up on the top of a sapling, where the leaves
are close enough to support the weight. A native climbs
up and either kills the reptile or makes it descend to the
ground, where others quickly despatch it. These snakes
are of “ constrictor ” habit, and are, therefore, not veno-
mous, but they can give a nasty bite. The longest Aus-
tralian snake in the Australian Museum, Sydney, measures
about 15ft. At Melville Island, North Australia, there is
a snake that measures 10ft. in length. It has very long-,
sharp teeth, and is a dark mottled brown with white
belly. It has a very broad, flat head, with a small neck.
Not known if it is venomous. In Kimberley, Nor’-West
Australia, I twice saw a very active snake about 6ft. long
and of the color and gleam of bright copper.
» » * *
“S.R.H.”: “Argo” (B. 29/6/’O5) says
lie tramped from Echuca to Cummeragunja Mis-
sion Station on pig-murder bent, but devil a
porker. He should have invoiced our dusky
brudder’s assistance. The blacks can find the pigs
when the best of dogs are at fault. Moira station
is the one that does the most pig-raiding, and if
“Argo” can conti-ive to strike its carts out along
Ealkiner’s frontage, when the men are putting the
young squealers aboard, he will have a high old
time.
LIFE'S MISFORTUNES.
LIZA: “ It's rainin' fer Ernerly's funeral. She
always did 'ave bad luck.”
“ Yaas,” drawled the English Johnny,
“ your climate is weally tolerable, and your
women folk pleasing to the—ah—eye, but the
names of some of your villages are weally too
much; what is Gingin, or Wagga Wagga, or
Wallangarra?” “Hold on a minute,” said the
local postmaster, “What do you think of these
post towns in England—lrlams o’ th’ Heights,
Alniuch, Cliffe -at - Hoo, and then consider
Rhiwbryfdir, or ” ——- But the man from the Cold
Country stayed no longer.
REST FOR THE WICKED.
MARY ANN: “It's work, work, work, morninnoon an’ night. There’s no gettin’ any rest
in this ’ouse.”
THE MISSUS: “ Well, why don't you get up earlier and take some?”
Harry Stockdale writes :
“ C.X.G.” (B. 15 6’05) re the Burke and Wills exploring
party errs in stating that “King was found in 1866.”
King was found at Innaminckaor Koolyamerra waterhole,
Cooper's Creek, in September, ’6l. A. W. Howitt, leader
of the “ Contingent Exploring Party,” writing from l’oria
Creek on Oct. lllth, ’6l, says :—“ On Sept. 15th, in lat.
27'44 found John King, the only survivor of Mr. Burke’s
party, living with the Cooper’s Creek natives. He was in
a very weak state, but is fast recruiting.” llowitt’s own
journal says : “At the lower end of
the large reach of water 1 met Sandy
and Frank looking for me, with the
intelligence that King, the only sur-
vivor of Mr. Burke’s party, had been
found. 1 found King sitting in a hut
that the natives had made for him.
He presented a melancholy appearance
—wasted to a shadow, and hardly to be
distinguished as a civilised being but
by the remnants of clothes upon him.
Tlie natives were all gathered round,
seated on the ground, looking on with
a most gratified and delighted expres-
sion.” King arrived in Melbourne in
Nov., ’6l, and had a great reception.
“ 0.X.G.” has probably confounded the
date of the finding of King with that
of the public funeral in Melbourne in
’63 of the remains of the lost explorers
—at which 1 was present.
* # *
‘ ‘ Helen ” : Amongst a gang
of Chinamen, who were scrub-cut-
ting for me, was a young chap
called Jacky, who had been chefs
assistant at a Melbourne hotel,
and could cook marvellously.
When he came up to the house, at
my request, he donned a white
shirt, white cap and apron, and
brought with him a large nonde-
script black and white dog. Jacky
liked exercising his authority over
his “lillie bup,” as he called it,
and when the dog misbehaved, his
master would tie a rope to his tail
and swing him over a tree-limb,
1 leaving him suspended, some-
times for hours. One day, the
dog appeared without his tail,
had cut the tail off because “ him
it, smilingly admitted that he
and Jacky, when asked about
waggee it too muchee.” He said he
was making soup of the appendage,
and, when I went to the camp to in-
vestigate, sure enough there was the tail
in a saucepan, cut up into sections, and
stewing with some Chinese condiments. Jacky
didn’t cook any for me after that. Which
reminds me that once, when a young sheep-
dog of mine, in jumping a fence, got his
hind legs caught in the wire-netting, and was
hanging there, howling piteously, our Chinese
vegetable-hawker passed calmly by, without
attempting to assist the animal. Coming to the
house shortly afterwards, the yellow scoundrel
blandly inquired, “Did em dog die ?”
* * * *
“Bowyang ” : Have hitherto thought that
“fantods” always took the form of snakes and
“ sich ” ; but for the last ten days or so my mate
has been suffering from green and orange bullocks
with galvanised iron horns and tails, and branded
“ J.H.” over a bar.
“ San Remo ” writes :
In the interests of Australian bird life, I wish to start a
crusade against the slaughtering of many of our bird
species. Take the emu, our most distinctive type of bird
life. The emu is fast disappearing, and, if steps are not
taken, will soon be as extinct as the moa. Some States
(Queensland, for instance) protect (?) the emu by a £5
penalty'for destruction—which is its ineffective as the rest
of our tariff. The jackass is likewise protected ; also some
others (pelican, £2O). Protection of jacky is pretty effec-
tive. lie is hardly worth shooting, and only an idiot
would risk £5 for the sake of his carcase. With the emu
it is different. Every budding sport considers him the
blue ribbon of his bag, and an emu-skin mat is quite a
prize. If the fine were £5O, the emu might receive the
respect which its position in bird life demands—immunity
from wanton destruction. Perhaps it would be stiil
better if the fine were three months’ gaol. Our Federal
Defence authorities, by the way, eont.nue to utilise emu
plumes for our troops, when a hen’s tail would do just as
well. Tenders are continually being called for the supply
of emu plumes. If it is an offence against State law to
destroy' the emu, how does the militaiy johnny think
plumes are legally' procured ? You can’t overtake the
emu and steal his tail feather while he is running. Per-
haps the military idea is to stimulate emu farming, but
then no mere military man has brains enough to think of
such a thing. Still adequate defence is essential, and if
our soldier can’t fight without the proper bird's feather
in his hat, I suppose the emu must go. But in that case,
for heaven’s sake, let us get our big war over quickly
before the emu is extinct, and before our army is inca-
pacitated for want of the proper ben decoration on top of
its skull.
• * * *
“ Nulla ” : Aborigines are expert “ brace-
let slippers.” The average abo., probably on
account of his pronounced antipathy to hard work,
has remarkably small, symmetrical hands and
wrists, and although, in the eyes of the law, all men
are equal (police boots, for instance, are made on
the assumption that all men’s feet are 12in. long hy
Gin. broad), quite a number of troopers have dis-
covered a large-sized flaw in the theory as applied
to aboriginals and the regulation “darby.” The
notorious Jacky Jacky and the Queenslander
Tommy Ryan are cases in point.
* * * *
“ Walrick ” : Re animal hunger and thirst
endurance. At Euroka station, near Walgett
(N.S. W.), some strange sheep were found at a
general muster. No one turned up to claim them ;
and, as the absence of a “T” on their backs
signified that they were not “travellers,” they
were put into a yard pending advertisement. The
overseer who should have attended to the matter
was summoned to another station next day, and
the sheep were forgotten. Seven weeks afterwards
the sheep were found, all still alive. They were
let out and survived. The yard which had held
them contained no sign of herbage or of water.
Also, once in Clermont (Q.) I knew a horse to be
confined by mistake for eight days without food or
water, and he survived.
* * * *
“H.J.L.” : Re queer methods of catching
fish. Native women of Bartle Bay, near Good-
enough Bay, British Papua, wishing to catch fish,
enter the water with fish spear poised, and stand
very still. Then with a quick motion those who
can do it press milk from the breast. The fish
dart towards the fluid, and are impaled. Other
women simply chew yams and other vegetables,
and spit out the juice.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Xo notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications iimijiciently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Wal. D.: “Australia’s Lullaby” is, unfortun-
ately, too like every other country’s lullaby Alan S. A.:
“ Dead Sea Fruit” declined Lobo : None of the last
three sets of verses quite hits the mark.,. .Jackdaw :
“Faith-Healer” too thin a yarn- Southern Cross:
Throws no new light on an old subject... ,S.T.: Chest-
nuts or worse.... T. B. D’A, : The word is a corrupted
native term, and you try to ring-in a derivation from an
Irish chestnut about a hare and a whisky-jar. Go to 1...
Kismet: Too much conventional snurfie. There would
have been imprudence in the matter, but no “ 5in.”,,.,
Nulla: It almost scored... .The Pilgrim: Better change
.vour pen-name. The other “ Pilgrim ” “ being dead yet
liveth.”... .X. : Very fine idea. Sorry you couldn't do it
literary justice... .Smallest: Well-written, but too weakly
sentimental Glen-Barr: Very moderate merit
W.J.C. : Dramatically good, but spoilt in detail. Sketch
unsuitable A. A. V. : Too feebly presented
Caber : Hopelessly' behind upon the fish and spider ques-
tions... .J. Jones : It is the larval form of a rare species
of cicada. What you call “roots” are the antennae....
J.B. St. J.: Metre too erratic E.W.M. : It might have
been worse... .Bendi: Not quality enough... .Madison :
You’re a good enough liar, but not quite a good enough
poet Susanne : Received your spring poem with chil-
blains on our fingers, and some frozen beer for a paper-
weight, and it didn’t read true H.J.L. : Sketch too
trivial; some pars may serve C.P. : Don’t know any-
thing about that concern ; but the memory undoubtedly
maybe aided, if it’s the right sort of memory.... E. M. :
Information not available J.P.Q.: More vigor than
elegance. One verse—
Pat M'Hugh : Verse only a repetition. And the
editor never was in or near the town where vou gay
you had these old school days with him.. .. .1. Hutcheson :
One is an old Bulletin joke ; other not good enough
—nor new enough Winchester : The prospect of
a discussion as to how many rabbits one man has
shot in a day is too awful K.C.: “Apprecia-
tion” is good intention in middling verse... . Buz-Fuz :
Yes, he has been in Parliament about 25 years... .Mars :
“Harbor” declined. Likewise “Gardening.” Fee
Jee : Too mild and domestic... .A.D.Q. : Both rather
crude, but you have humor and observation Doubter :
Elaborate rubbish in unholy verse Haiber: As usual,
good ideas in unsatisfactory dress F.H. : “Church
Girl” has one line verse (the first). Rest nowhere....
F.M.S.H. : Why call a “poem” about the dreary old
home and the cow and the cat “ Fata Morgana ” ?
B. B. : Ye Gods! Wattletree : You have a cheek to try
to pass off on us that 20-year-old Harry Rickards story'....
M. Murph.y : Not worth mentioning in three verses that
y’ou were once a child... ,C. B.G. :If we gratified all the
old pioneers and so on who say it would soothe their
declining years to see their verses published, .you would
probably be the first to sa.v the paper wasn’t worth buying.
.... J. A. : We’ll try one verse :
\Ve really couldn’t sell any more of it for so little as (id
Mark M. : Verses about Russia well-meant but bathetic...
Bushgirl; “Child Tragedy” declined. “ Sleep Walker ”
held for further consideration.. ,S. Thorne :26 hopeless
suggestions out of 27.... Percival K. : None of them print-
worbhy Hen Isaf: Verses not quite up. Prose sketch
good, but far off our beat Col Maine : Hasn't verse-
quality enough R.B.L.R. : Sails too close to the wind.
....Herb rt E.R. : Sorry that your lack of skill always
oat-weighs your undoubted originality.. . .Pelican : Good
study in “ push’’-jargon—that’s all Mary Mac.:
“ Keith ” has a capital situation, but is very weak in
detail.... Budgewarr : Joke not good enough to carry the
verses Andrew P. : Just beaten on the post... .
Eleanor J.F. : Pretty ideas, inadequately voiced.. . .Lake :
Yarn hardly intelligible. Pars useful... .G.C. : “ Night ”
is too “strong” for print R. Harris: Not worth
republishing Car Collo : Not interest enough
Jeeaich : Patriotic, without being poetic... .Ne’er : Bald-
headed savages are off the menu.... Win E. : Jingle not
up to the mark Chip: Yarn that the Jap girls are
trapped into N.Q. houses of ill-fame is against all the
general knowledge of the race. Jap women don’t seem
to look on the life as a disgraceful 0ne....P.C. : Your
remarkable poem on manure cannot, unfortunately, be
published for reasons of prudery. In this world many a
good joke is too good for print Joss: You’ll be ever
grateful for our opinion on your poetry ? Well, it isn’t
poetry and it’s very poor verse.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W. Corrigan : Hardly expresses the situation ....6xB:
First of all, the editor saw that par. about Reid swim-
ming the Channel himself. Also, the artist saw it. Like-
wise, all the staff drew the editor’s attention to it.
Further, about 1000 people cut it out and sent it in....
T.leß. : Not large enough joke.... E.G.G.: Both null and
void.... Roy: Not much good, and the subject was old
before your picture arrived A. Wayback : Some traces
of talent, but that is all we can say... .Laurence : Not a
picture, nor a joke Jim O. : Not a striking resem-
blance. .. .H.H. : None of the three quite good enough....
A.B. : “ Willing to Oblige ”is a mere smudge... .S.T. : Too
amateurish A.F.M. : “Stomach” jokes are in poor
demand.
If you ask a cocky for some grub he’ll set you chopping
logs,
Or chase y r ou off the premises and chivvy you with dogs.
So damn and blast the tramping—likewise the wallaby-
track,
And curse the day that I first put the swag upon my
back.
Beside, the one Is, and awe throne,
Lure every and in all zone ;
One word entrue ; Babel destroy,
So lone inkolie, as soie employ.


phi /pchy fcasfenmcj
|
~yctju,ely /^lt^oncecl
>- .„ij K /
5* ){;l 1, »*/ >»</ V'. v
> A* C I^X
, cb e Y
'w V , /
P 0
k* 1 a v
°%!
war
** staf/tiag T<s M//&- /X? «A/y
/j //t&erf&d #/z fm£r&t/z/^az/Xer,
/f/M4 AD ill <=>f
w
Only /As Cl /olhj Our
''arfisf" /fay; Cor'erecL
a/b /A-ose g/oqueh-t
/ a- ■■*'
f *S s , )
THE 12th OF JULY.—From Sketches by a Survivor.
July has been a very strenuous month with our artist (festively speaking). The Glorious Fourth, the Battle of the Boyne, the Battle of
Aughrim, the Fall of the Bastille-not forgetting “Hop’s.” own birthday—all occurred in such rapid succession that—well, that he lived
through it all the above; picture testifies. Another such victory, and he is ruined.


/ / ji'G lurners |o rife Hioh -
Co»n*r>«Ss«o^hif> V« urqed. by pjis
friends'
' CVt Hib +o
OW t>ty) C[ooJ at /f,g uKe^
"J? file ife
grows
otj w 4
Sov»7e
ofj-
C°*(et-ente _.*
sftij?oWt7 cr^
Corn|>e fled 'To irjsut-e 'ftfe Vv ~-
/%
ft''
/fu-fare-
l«\w is
\f SW9<?eyfed try aXino\
S"'| s , K ss £-° \
pe-frinp harried .
' A S C '
° , we C\<i
be one.
N. I've ajled!"/
' Nuiorities are
rrjore
'ffjA'T
A^s
There is no body ]q luf-
tffe Ü boor Wj e * c U* V
lIIj ! ‘| | Ar^us
5lVe is i
c 1 o>£>en
V wifi) — but"
\ orwee st>ecKled
\ Qreen
x \ Re'J Q&xey
Theres one "tremendous P ot(e Wq jj s^nc | (, e tV Ge „
JAt»An K h*r on Aus+Ata - TF/e Nlvy ”
~~j Arjjws
fay— " 7 y lfay« co*,*!—
Wot - stall V/C do
filtw)ier looKi n p u f>J " Just' s» h'tjo ub
'ftjc Bj'lfijb Ifey/ - —_ Poh”t~ •j'orge'f’'to
' ''A
N Edek m
OnfVaJ i\
b*S |>erj : e<f
ClihlVi*,
r 11-
src*s 2,b recoup
metaJs " j
Proj" Spencer
' Sounds I j' iTwoulct do jx>r ff)e fpd bit'll
but no doubt Some Joe (Vfufyers would
blocK. 1 I |)2sh *"
A LOOK ROUND.


A. SAUNDERS FOR WEDDING PRESENTS:
SUITABLE
SUGGESTIONS IN
TABLE SILVER,
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral Dalton China
BISCUIT BARREL, 20s.
Other Styles, 15s Gd, 17s 6d,
22s 6d, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
a. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Cut Glass, 20s.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRICE LIST EOR SPOONS AND FORKS.
A QUALITY.
Table Spoons, 20s Half-Doz.
Table Folks, 20s Half-Doz.
Table Spoons, 15s Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 15s Half-Doz.
Tea Spoons, 10s Half-Doz.
IN THREE
B QUALITY.
Table Spoons, 12s 6d Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 12s 6d Ha,.-Doz.
Table Spoons, 10s 6d Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 10s 6d Half-Doz.
Tea Spoont,, 6s 6d Half-Doz.
O QUALITY.
Table Spoons, 10s 6d Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 10s 6d Half-Doz.
Table Spoons, 7s 6d Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 7s 6d Half-Doz.
Tea Spoons, 5s Half-Doz.
DESIGNS—FIDDLE, OLD ENGLISH. AND KING.
Our Spoons and Forks are well made and beautifully finished
They are absolutely the best made in England, and will wear a lifetime.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
Rainbow Glass, 20s.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6J.
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
■
A. SAUNDERS.
Corinthian Column
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-Plated,
jin. high,lss 6d each.
Other Styles,
8s 6d, lCs, 12s 6d,
17s 6d, 21s.
A. SAUNDEES.
BEEAD BOAED AND WAITEE Combined, Pure Silver-
Plated on Nickel Silver, with KNIFE to Match,
£2 10s. Other Styles, 255, SOs, 355, 40s, £2 ss, £3.
Our Catalogue
Contains over 1500
Illustrations of
Watches, Clocks.
Jewellery, Silver-Plate,
Purses, and Optical Goods,
Write for it now.
We send it to any Address
In Australia
Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
HONEY JAR, Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Glass, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
mww-NTATIOH DOUBLE INKSTAND Out, Glass
ISles Pure Silver-Plated, £2 5s Other Styles,
17s Gd,’2ss, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt BEDROOM CLOCK,
Splendid Timekeper, 20s.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d, 255.
Our Prices
Consistent with the
Best Quality',
are Low. Why?
As Direct Importers
and large Cash Buyers,
We sell direct to
Our Customers,
Thus saving them all
Middlemen’s Profits.
Are the Lowest
Wingfield Rowbotham*C
A. SAUNDERS. , .
SET OF CARVERS, Best SheffleW Silver Steel,
Hand Finished, Securely Riveted Handles,
•27s 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 2oS.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Pure Silver-Plated
Xlin. Oval, Special Value, £2 ss.
£3 ss, £3 10s.
on Nickel Silver,
Other Styles, £3
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure
Silver Plated,
Handsomely Engraved, 255.
Other Styles, 16s 6d, 20s.
30s, 355.
Pure
AND
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-Plated AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS
TONGS, Fancy Embossed Handles, 12s 6d.
Solid Silver, 30s, 355, 40s.
m
, 01 ‘V„,i S Fern Design, Gilt Lined, comprising Four
P,eS 4 ™“«S E “”w <K- Styles, £4 «, £5 ss, £6, £7, £lO 10s,
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA STAND, Pure Silver-Plated,
Handsomely Embossed,
Cake Basket, Sugar and Cream Combined, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
>T WATER OR MILK JUG,
Pure Silver-Plated, 355.
tßer Styles, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR CUP EGG FRAME, Pure Silver-Plated,
Beautifully Fluted, £2 10s.
Other Styles, 21s, 255, 30s, 355.
M
*y4
r £s/j^M
a?
WMt
m/M
W£
S»YM
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR BOTTLE LUNCH OR DINNER
CRUET, Pure Silver-Plated, 255.
Other Styles, 17s Gd, 21s, 255, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE OR FRUIT BASKET, Pure Silver-Plated on
Mckel Silver, £2 ss. Other Styles, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-Plated,
4in. high, in Four Styles,
15s 6d, 20s, 255, SOs.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTERDISH, Pure Silver-Plate'!
on Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, 12s td.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d 12s 6d, los,
17s 6a,
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK Pure Silver-Plated,
Leaf Design, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
i i
111
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver-Mounted CUT GLASS
SALTS AND SPOONS,
in Silk-Lined Case, 12s 6d.
Heart Shaped, 13s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG AND TOAST RACK
COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-Plated, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Glass FLOWER EPERGNE,
Pure Silver-Plated Base, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £2, £2 ss, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
KNIFE RESTS, Cut Glass,
Pure Silver Mounts, 12s 6d.
Larger, 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR CUP EGG FRAME AND
SPOONS,
Pure Silver-Plated, 21s.
Other Styles, 255, 30s.
BUTTER AND TOAST COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Glass Lining, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POT, Pure Silver-Plated,
Hand Engraved, £2.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 21s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY S LEASING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN.
809. 811. 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET.
Opposite
RAILWAi
STATION.


m
m
m*
m
fV
mm
m
*
■
*1
[Copyriyht.')
We are enabled, through the courtesy of her Excellency Lady Nortlicote, to reproduce
this portrait of her Excellency wearing Australian tweeds —an example that deserves
to be followed by every Australian woman and man throughout the Commonwealth.


Furniture Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEV.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GrO TO UETjTj"
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if
you want real good stamps, send to
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elisabeth St., SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
POLITICAL
POITNS
The Tory political view : Deakin-Reid
is patriotic. Deakin-Watson is unparliamentary
and unconstitutional. Watson-Deakin isSkeol.
1 ‘ Mr. Reid has proved himself true to the
Orange cause at every turn.” —Testimonial from
Dill Macky at Sydney Town Hall, July 12.
The White Australia policy can keep
this continent from being a black Australia ; but
only High Protection can keep it from being a
blank Australia.
M‘Lean, Turner and M‘Cay intend to
form a Fourth party in the House of Reps, in the
hope that such a “cave” will in time attract
away some of Deakin’s following. But on the
face of things it looks a hopeless project.
Thus S.A.’s returned Agent-General,
Grainger :
There is an awful lot of nonsense spoken about the
actions of the Labor party affecting the London money
market. Financiers there don’t care who is in or out of
power, as long as they are sure of getting their interest
regularly.
N.S.W. Government is desperately eager
—or says it is—to give the Lands Inquiry Com-
mission full and effective powers, but those who
know reckon that there will be found some excuse
for delays and limitations which will make the
good resolve not of much good after all.
“ Come outside,” said Norton, M.L.A., to
.Tessep, M.L.A., “and I’ll beat you to death with
a bunch of your bananas.” But a good deal
depends on the quality of the bananas. Some
bananas would squash into an unpleasant mass in
the air before they came down once on the back
regions of an M.L. A. who got in on the pious and
anti-borrowing ticket.
A rev. Scotchbyterian parson, giving G. H.
Reid a hand the other day, solemnly told his gilt-
topped Sassiety flock that, though Socialism didn’t
imply such things, yet, if it did, it would he very
wicked. Also, things were not incompatible, and
the Almighty must not be forgotten, and we
mustn’t drive capital out of the country. But he
imputed no motives. On the contrary— Then
the Plate went round.
When it isn’t thinking, Queensland official-
dom still drifts into the old extravagant ways.
Recently a boundary-rider was wanted for a sec-
tion of the rabbit fence near Thargomindah.
Scores of men were available locally, and yet
Jawbell’s department engaged a man in Brisbane
at £8 13s. 4d. a month and sent him out. This
little piece of idiocy cost train fare from Bris-
bane to Cunnamulla, and coach fare thence to
Thargomindah.
WHILE WORK WAITS.
The newspapers continue to dr[?]arily print about two
columns of “Reid on Deakin” and “Deakin on Reid
daily.
THE KID: “ Well, you fellows, when you get
through with each other perhraps you'll remem-
ber me."
Although Premier Seddon professes to be
extremely anxious to reform the much-cursed
Legislative Council, there wasn’t u word about it
in the Governor’s recitation at the opening of
Parliament. Wigram, M.L.C., who is disgusted
with the constitution of his own Chamber, has in-
troduced a Bill to amend the Constitution by
making European members elective (Maori mem-
bers to be appointed as hitherto), and limiting the
number of seats.
Bent told Toorak the other night—
The Government had intended to insert a compulsory
clause in the Closer Settlement Bill last session, only it
knew the Upper House would not have passed it.
Bent says to his fair-haired darling—“My cherub,
I love you, and wouldn’t hurt a hair of your head ;
but there’s a bad man who doesn’t love you, and
he’s lying in wait to kill you. So I’ll kill you
myself, and save him the trouble. _ It s .very
generous of Bent, no doubt, but it isn t either
sense or politics.
M.L. brewers, with a sense of impending
danger at the coming elections, leave no
stone unturned to capture the
stray voter who still has a
thirst. A placard in every
M.L. pub. asks in loud type,
‘ ‘ Are you on the roll ? If not,
why not?” Hebe waits for
the second “ round,” and in-
sinuates a pen into the re-
fresher’s fingers, and suggests
that he should apply to be put
on.
What a lot of effort is
thrown away in preoaring
petitions to
Parliament!
Scarcely a day
passes in any
Australian
Parliament
without some
member grave-
ly presenting a
petition “res-
pectfully word-
ed and in or-
der,” which is
received, and
promptly cast
into the dust
heap the mo-
ment the House
rises. The other
day teetotal
Hawthorn (Vic.)
waxed excited
because it had
got together
enough names,
protesting
against the
granting of a
liquor license to
a local club, to
make a strip 30
yards long. This
ponderous reel
will, in due time,
be rolled into Parliament and rolled out
again. It took weeks and weeks to get
up, and it will take three minutes to put
it respectfully in the ash-box, and one
minute to forget that it ever existed.
Exactly 50 years previous to the day when
the Labor Conference, sitting in Melbourne,
decided to again slink the fiscal issue, the People’s
League drew up an outline Constitution for the
then unborn State of Victoria. Clause 8 ran—
“ That the Government and Legislature be pro-
hibited from borrowing any money; and also be
restricted from undertaking works of a public
nature without funds in hand ; and that all Cus-
toms duties or excise taxes of every kind be for
ever abolished.”
A small joke lightened the dullness of
N.S.W. Assembly during last week. Many of the
Government’s ardent supporters were banging the
atmosphere in the interests of the Yellow Pup at
Sydney Town Hall on July 12, when some unre-
generate person telephoned that the Government
was in a large minority in an impending division
and the whip was calling in all stragglers. Then
the members left the Yellow animal to paw the
air without their support, and raced helter-skelter
to Parliament House, to find the Assembly dron-
ing over a machinery clause in the Children s Pro-
tection Bill.
The great anti-Socialist party will fall into
its last slimy ditch when, at the re-opening of
Parliament, it appoints J. Cook to act as its
“deputy leader”—to all intents its full leader,
for G. H. Reid will take no more interest in the
Federal Parliament now that office is off for good.
Cook was lifted from out the coal-hole into Parlia-
ment by the workers, won their stupid confidence
by his smug sanctimoniousness, became leader of
the Labor party, through that a Minister of the
Crown. Now the rat is to be leader of the anti-
Labor party,
There was no man more personally glad to
be back in a Ministry than “Plain Bill” Lyne.
A week or two before, G. H. Reid scornfully
characterised Lyne as a “ political corpse, and
said he declined to “resurrect him by paying
any attention to his remarks. Now Lyne, whose
chief political instinct is a contempt for G. H.
Keid Sybils up to twice his ordinary size as he
pisses Yes-No, and that bloated circumstance
tries to look as if he didn’t observe anybody pass-
ing and to wear the far-off expression of a man
who is liable to compose an ode at any moment.
Bill Lyne meeting George Ousted Reid is one of
the funniest things in politics just now.
Some more random selections from the
current business paper of N.S.W. Parliament:—
Seven questions as to the coal bill and so on of a
Government launch. .
Motion for a Select Committee to inquire why a certain
chemist hasn’t been registered as a chemist.
Motion to make a new holiday and call it Empire Daj.
Motion for a Select Committee to report on somebody
who was tried for bigamy.
A hill to change the name of a little scrap of a
Motions'for Select Committees to inquire into a police-
man’s grievances, and to investigate, for the third time,
the suspension of a bookbinder from the Government
Pl Motion°fora Select Committee to report on somebody’s
claims to something or other quite unimportant.
“Shirley” writes
Walter Preedv, of N.S.W. Agent-General’s staff, has
been visiting Canada, and has, according to Sydney
Evening News, made the easy discovery that the'Stink-
ing Fish party is not much in evidence there. The News
sums up the booming of Canada as 1 A Confidence Trick,
hut fails to locate the manipulator. There is a trick
played on the emigrant, not in untruthful statements as
to work and wages, but as to the possibility ofreturnfor
dissatisfied men; and the culprit is the ghoulish C.P.
Railway monopoly. The fee from London to Calgary
(emigrant rates) is £lO Bs._boat and train. From Calgary
to Montreal (train only) is $6B, or, roughly ,_ £l4 3S;, t
which add boat from Montreal to London, £5 10s. Thus
the emigrant without capital who once sets his foot in the
north-west is trapped. Usually he curses loudly for 12
months. Then, discovering that really things are not so
had after all, he settles down.
“ All this talk is no good to us ; we want
food,” said the unemployed who broke out last
week in the gallery of N.S.W Assembly. It is
work we want-not palaver. And howto get
work? A State that owes over £82,000,000, and
is already spending £2,000,000 a year of loan
money —much of it in almost useless undertakings
-can’t do much more in that direction ; m fact,
it will soon have to do less. As regards the start-
ing of private industries, the manufacturer can t
pay the Australian rate of wages for eighi; hours
work and yet compete with long-hour and lo
wage foreigners on a Freetrade basis, and N. • •
votes pretty consistently for Freetrade. And, 1
State industries were started, the foreign com-
petitor, on a Freetrade basis, would kill them just
as he would kill private industries. Besides,
Holman. M.L.A., writes to The Bulletin to say
that the Socialist party is in no hurry to start
State industries. It is “ content to wait, he says
ANOTHER APPEAL TO THE HIGH
COURT.
BILL : “ Hallo, Artie, wot yer cryin' for?"
ARTIE : "BOO-hoo! I've (I've gone an spent a bob of
Jerry's, an' he's (BOO-hoo!) gone ter tell the
cop."
BILL (cheerily): “ You're all right. Yer lei to
do that now.”
Pressmen’s presentations to politicians are
mostly hollow affairs. Barton, Deakin, Watson,
Reid —each has got his pat of shitless butter, and
the barrel of stuff will be drawn on as Prime
Minister after Prime Minister falls downstairs.
Of course, the politicians are deeply moved, and,
of course, the pressmen are deeply moved, and
everybody is more or less moved.
Federal Labor Party platform now declares
for “ the cultivation of Australian sentiment based
on the development of a self-reliant community,”
for “the protection of Australian shipping
against unfair competition,” for “the support of
Australian production by Australian workmen
and Government preference to Australian goods ;
and after all that refuses to endorse straight-out
Protection.
The results, so far, of the
Centennial Park land sales
form an object lesson m the
methods of finance of the great
Freetrade party in N.S.W.
M‘Linen, when Treasurer in
one of the Parkes Ministries,
announced a surplus of
£600,000, which consisted solely
of the estimated value of this
land. A complacent Assem-
bly applauded this remarkable
announcement. Now, after
full 15 years, several well-ad-
vertised sales have succeeded
in placing nearly one-third of
the land for a little over
£40,000, and that goes to make
up another surplus. First you
borrow the money and buy
some land. Then you have an
enormous surplus by crediting
yourself with the enormous
sum you think you could get if
you sold the land. Later you
sell a bit of it, and out of the
scanty proceeds make another
surplus.
In Germany 20 artisans
out of every 1000 were unem-
ployed at latest advices; m
Britain the unemployed wore
65 per 1000. German emigra-
tion was 220,902 in 1881 when
the country had just got rid of Freetrade; in
&W 0o.„ J .0 36,310. Great■ Bntanw.
1881 sent out 227,542 emigrants of British and
Irish birth ; but it stuck to Freetrade and m 1900
its loss in this way had got up to 259,959. _
The town clerk of Wellington (M.L.) is
an ardent municipal Socialist. Hjj. latest sugges-
tion is a municipal laundry. WeHingtonssuc
a congested city as regards space, that there are
no backyards worth speaking about, the
weekly wash is usually published on the l
The announcement by Victoria’s Bent
Government that it intends to make> thefactories
Act a permanent statute instead of the mere tern
porarv thing it has been hitherto, and the fact
that this announcement has roused no frenzied
Tory opposition, is an interesting development
The democratic always
Sd" i Tory that
Ihe’Tc)S ' for . lie | f^
slanders - he simply tries to look as if the reform
Sbeen his own act, and pats it kindly on rhe
ri. " Anc l when the next reform comes along,
h r r'ophesSs just as fluently as if he hadn t been
proved a fraud and a delusion last time, and many
times before that.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers did consider-
able of a wail last week to a meeting of jewellers
about some very bad people who won’t believe
that his alleged surplus of £187,000 is genuine.
After all, is it wonderful that there are such
people ? When a Premier uses as revenue about
£1,000,000 raised by the sale of the State assets,
reduces the payments to sinking funds by £50,000,
charges about £400,000 of ordinary expenditure to
loans (Carruthers even charged outlay on hos-
pitals, schools, police-stations, penitentiaries, fire-
brigades, libraries, benevolent asylums, and an
inebriates’home to loans as “permanent and re-
productive” shirks), it seems quite reasonable
that people should call his £187,000 a disgraceful
swindle rather than a surplus.
At the Horsham (Vic.) convention of the
Chamber of Agriculture, the other day, ex-
Premier Irvine was billed to administer the open-
ing oration. He devoted three-quarters of his
hoot to a tirade against Deakin, whose action had,
he declared, sent a “thrill of indignation through-
out the land.” The Iceberg almost boiled with
rage, and, after informing the delegates present
that the principal, if not the only achievement of
the Federal Parliament had been to put a duty on
reapers and binders and to place diving apparatus
on the free list, he descended from the stump
without doing what he climbed up for—which was
to declare the convention open. Irvine has been
away for his health. He evidently returned before
his intellect became convalescent. An obliging
pressman put him right, after the meeting, a ou
the duty that never was levied on reapers ana
binders, and Irvine chased up the reporters an
induced them not to blazon his ignorance to
unfeeling world.
The unemployed demonstration,
broke out last week in the gallery of JN.b.w.
Assembly, was pathetically ineffective,
spokesman had a feeble voice and couldn t eloc ,
and instead of a ringing denunciation ot m .
Speaker and the rest, the remarks he made while
the police were climbing over the rest of the auai-
ence to get at him were faint and flat. -‘-ins
written message should have been a roll ox par -
ment with a gleaming array of curses inside ana
red ribbon outside, and it should have struck the
floor of the House like a dead king falling fro
throne, and then it should have leaped up h <
living thing and hit the member for Poppy
Mountain on the jaw. But instead of this it was
just a sheet ot paper that wobbled slowly down-
wards and sideways on to a back seat,
chance was wasted—yet it was such an > y
chance. If the message had bounced hard enougn
on the floor, a pale, agitated Carruthers would
have rushed out to borrow £10,000,000 on the sp
and supply work for everybody.
Digby Denham, Minister for Agriculture,
rarely plays the same tune as the rest of Morgan s
Queensland orchestra. The other day he hoped
a larger amount of loan money would be available
next year”—this immediately following Premier
Morgan’s cable to Bull that “the era of borrowing
had ceased.” The day after Denham had tootled
on the loan theme, Morgan again remarked
that there had been so much borrowing already
that it was hard work to make ends meet, and he
wasn’t going to be fool enough to try - and get out
of the bog by taking the same road that had led
them into it. If Queensland has thrown over
the worn-out system of party Government,
and doesn't profess to have any set Minis-
terial policy, and chooses a Minister for his
administrative capacity and for his views with re-
gard to the one department which lie bosses, well
and good—it will be another thing to be glad about.
Some good may even come out of the showing, m-
an irregular way. that it isn’t necessary for Minis-
ters to pretend to think the same about everything
in order to do good work. The trouble is that,
until the new sensible system is adopted m a regu-
lar way, Morgan and Kidston are liable to be
thrown out on account of Denham s remarks.
Morgan had better bring in an Elective Ministry
Bill and save the situation.
SANS EVERYTHING.
UNPROTECTED AUSTRALIA (year 2000): "Yes , I've bin a silly
ass with my Freetrade, my open door for foreign
manufactures and exploiters, and my loans, and
but I mustn't sit here thinkin’. It’s up to me to
find a crab for supper."
Judge Ileydon’s first important decision
in N.S.W. Arbitration Court was given against
the employers —a large “universal provider
firm. Though, especially at bargain sale times,
its vans are to be found roaming over the distant
suburbs at all hours, the firm objects to pay its
luckless drivers the standard rate of wage fixed
by award of the Arbitration Court. Reiving on
the decision of the High Court re the leasing of
barbers’ chairs, this providery leased its horses,
vans and harness to its employes, who had to
accept the “contract” or the sack. The con-
tract,” of course, panned out for less wages than
those ordered in the award. Happily the Arbi-
tration Court declared that the cases were miles
apart, and unless the High Court can unearth
another mouldy precedent, the mean subterfuge
will not avail. If the leasing principle were
permitted, it could be extended quite indefinitely.
The universal providery could even ‘ lease a
few square feet! of counter to each employee, on a
contract providing that, over and above a few
shillings per week, all takings go to the boss.


A Grand Boot for Ladies.
? CALLAGHAN SPECIAL!
16/6
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
ALL OYER
THE STATES
IP
m
m
m, i
;
IN AMERICAN
GLACE KID-
-15 11
Characteristics :
CHROME-TANNED
GrLACE KID
STYLISH CAPS
MACKAY SEWN
FULL OF WEAR!
A PERFECT FIT CERTAIN!
Satisfaction
Given
or
Money
Refunded .
We don’t TALK for EFFECT .
We DELIVER the GOODS ! !
Send To-day for our elegant PICTURE CATALOGUE.
CALLAGHAN & SON
395 George St.
SYDNEY.
The Q. State authorities say that the
leasing of land to colored aliens by mean whites
(to the detriment of white workers) is a nasty
legal problem involving a big constitutional point.
If so, what’s wrong with altering the Constitution
to meet the case ?
VITADATIO
Cures
Gastric Ulcers.
Read this Interesting Testimonial.
20th June, 1904.
Dear Sir,—About twelve months ago I became very ill
with gastric ulcers, so the doctor said. I had terrible fits
of coughing night and day. I could not get sleep,
which completely prostrated me. My appetite fell away
until I could eat scarcely anything ; I was wasting away
from day to day until I was almost a shadow. The
doctor advised me to take cod-liver oil and get away
-for a change as soon as I could, but I got no better, in
fact I kept getting worse ; at last I became so weak that
I thought I would die. About six months ago I was
advised by Mr. Trealoar to try a course of Vitadatio.
My wife purchased one dozen large bottles of Vitadatio,
and by the time I had finished the first bottle I began to
get sleep. When I had taken the twelve bottles I felt a
new man, and was able to attend to my business again.
Right glad I am that I took Vitadatio, and I heartily
recommend it to any person suffering as I did. The
doctor told me he could not do any more for me, and
now I am well and strong.
Yours faithfully,
WM. O. FREEMANTLE.
Dairy Produce and Egg Merchant,
382 Bridge-road, Richmond, Yic.
I can certify to the correctnees of the above ; he was
very low when I pressed him to take Vitadatio, and I am
glad to say he is well again.
J. TRELOAR,
Grocer, Wine and Spirit Merchant,
Nicholson-street, Carlton.
For farther particulars ,
S. A. PALMER ,
fiend Office: 4ft!) Flinders Lane ,
Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Now Joseph Carruthers threatens that if
the Australian Government does not promptly
found the capital—to prevent the founding of
which he says he will die in the last ditch—he will
refuse to i allow the use of Sydney Government
House to the Governor-General. What a dis-
loyal, rude Joey ! But probably the Australian
Government won’t be intimidated. The G.-G. can
sign Bills and things in Melbourne, or Adelaide,
or Hobart, as well as in Sydney, and the notion
of keeping up two huge Government Houses for
his use is really an absurd extravagance.
The gaol-keeper at Mount Gambier
(S.A.) has just given all the State J’sP. (and some
police magistrates) a lesson in law. A local
prisoner, being sentenced for a fortnight as a
drunk, and for another month on a second charge of
theft, the gaoler calmly released him at the end of
two weeks, explaining that, in the days of
Attorney-General Mann—long* dead —orders had
been sent out that cumulative sentences are
illegal. The present A.-G., being appealed to, has
decided that illegal they are, in spite of general
practice to the contrary. And now the hosts of
delinquents who have served cumulative sentences
during the last 20 years are lamenting that their
luck did not land them in the gaol of the one man
who really understood the law.
An utter foolishness—more foolish even
than the debate on it —is the function of present-
ing the Address-in-Reply to the Governor. The
Speaker and his staff, together with as many
members as can be cajoled into the game, troop
with the non-committal document, which the
Government Printer has spent much time in titi-
vating up, and present it to his Ex. As likely as
not, a month has been spent in angry recrimina-
tion since the Governor addressed Parliament,
but he says nothing about the want of manners in
keeping him waiting for an answer. Sometimes,
as has happened in the Federal Parliament, there
is a crisis, and the luckless potentate does not get
an answer at all; which fact does not worry him,
either.
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
Missing: Friends.
KEANE, THOMAS. —Last seen at Mary-
borough, Queensland, 10 years ago. Sup-
posed to have gone Sydney and worked with a
contractor named Neville. Thought to have been
in Plague Hospital, Sydney, in year 1900. Father,
Michael Keane, of Derould, Kilnamona, Co. Clare,
Ireland, inquiring. Anybody knowing whereabouts
or evidence of death please communicate with
CAVAN DUFFY & KING, Solicitors, National
Trustee Building; 125‘Queen-street, Melbourne.
MALTHOID
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS.
“ IE it is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.” —Marcus Aurelius.
“AT THE BOTTOM
of the well,” so runs the'old story,
“ Truth was found.” And Truth is
the only pure foundation on which
to build a good business. If the
lining
The basis of
Our Manufactures
is a Mineral,
HYDRO-CARBON,
100 p.c. PURE.
OF THE WELL
—the tank or the reservoir, is made
of MALTHOID HOOFING you may
be quite certain it will hold water.
Malthoid Roofing is effectually and
permanently waterproof.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Aust. Rep.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
AV. S. FRIEND & CO., Sydney, N.S.W. .TOIIN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland,
JAAIES AV. JACK, Wellington, N.Z. WILLIAM SAN DOVER & CO., Perth, A
NORMAN & CO., Adelaide, S,A. G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin,
E. T. HARRIS, Townsville, Q. EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch.,
HEDLEY BUTTON, Launceston, Tas. JAMES McEAVAN & CO., LTD., Melb.,
THOMPSON, BRIDGER & CO„ LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., .Brisbane. Q.
Visitors to the Old Cotitvtrv
SOUTH KENSINGTON
HOTEL
Queen’s London, S.W?
CONSIDERABLY
ENLARGED—NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT
El CONVENIENCE
R OVAL PAT^®
ONE OF THE
MOST FASH/ONABLB
•HOTELS IN
LONDON
%
'A
%
Trench’s Remedy for Fits and Epilepsy
The ItKV. A. It. THOMPSON, Pastor, Portland Baptist Church, Vic., writes: “ It is with the
utmost, pleasure that I hear witness to the complete success of your remedy in the esse qt my
broth ir-in law, Mr. F. C. Williams, of Fitzroy. For orer twelve years he was a victim to
epileptic fits, and, like one in the Scriptures, * suffered many things of many physicians, . .
and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse.’ Seeing an advertisement of your remedy,
h s frien s persuaded him to try it, and wonderful results followed. He had oniy one seizure
after co nmenoing with the medicine, when the fits altogether ceased. After patient and
persistent following of your directions, with gradually diminishing doses of the remedy,
he was thoroughly cured. It is now some considerable time since he ceased taking the medicine,
and not only has there been no recurrence of the fits, but he ia in the best of health and spirits.
I gladly render this testimony, and indeed have spoken of your remedy, and of this successful
cure, to not a few other sufferers.”
Many grateful patients permit us to refer enquirers to them. Send for Booklet ; posted fret.
The Union Mfg. & Agency Go., 359 Collins Stree^^l bourne.
IMMEDIATE
RELIEF
Head Office
DUBLIN
Permanent
Cure
Go-operating Wool & Produce Co., Sydney.
A BOM A FIDE PASTOR ALISTS’ INSTITUTION.
A Chinaman is hard to kill. In the Bairns-
dale (Vic.) district, 1; st week, Ah Look, aged 68,
got separated from a couple of octogenarian com.
patriots as they were crossing some ranges, and
for three days he wandered about in the bitter
cold, blanketless and almost foodless. Finally,
Ah Look was restored to the bosoms of the two
80-year-old Chows in an all li’ condition. The
restoration, by an energetic policeman, was a
merely formal proceeding. The lost one, when
discovered, was doddering along to his destination
on his heathen “own,” quite unconscious of the
fact that he ought to have been dead under the
circumstances.
The man who calls loftily for “ English,”
and turns up his nose at Australian beer, should
note this: Brewery investigators in the Cold
Country have discovered that “ the full develop-
ment of the adulteration system is seen in the
export trade, where preservatives are used in
excess to keep beer which, from the poverty,
uncleanness, or inferiority of its ingredients,
would not otherwise stand the voyage through the
tropics ; till a case of apparently most innocent
lager, bright, light, and wholesome, is really full
of cumulative chemical poisons.” Perhaps, after
all, the beer responsible for the recent Melbourne
poisoning case was simply a bottle of adulterated
English.
“G. Elburg,” re the Adelaide correspond-
ent who wrote about the Fatman’s charity (P.
22/6/’O5): —
This posing by the employer person as a wholesale
philanthropist is sickening. Since the S. A. State ele< -
tions numbers of people have gravely assured me that
“Stummick and Co. have given notice to 100 men,”
“ Hog-son’s are discharging 50,” &c. Such tales are too
asinine to impress any but those of no intelligence. The
employer does not employ a single hand more than the
volume of his business demands, and the election of a
dozen or so Labor representatives, who have as yet no
voice in Parliament, has not obviated the necessity for
wearing boots or clothing, nor have the people’s appe-
tites (except, perhaps, in the case of a few Tories)
diminished since the elections.
Some day a disgusted country will be
driven to pass a law absolutely prohibiting any
registered newspaper publishing the remarks of
any priest or parson delivered between the 10th
and 15th July. S. Australia has already a law
which decrees certain close seasons for Parliamen-
tary candidates ; and Dill Macky will yet drive
this country to protect itself against blastiferous
sectarian strife and the prostitution of its Parlia-
ments, by making a close season also for the
insects who lose their heads annually on the anni-
versary of some poor little irrelevant foreign
scrap in a bog down Limerick way when a French
general got his head blown off. It will really
be a charity to many of the insects. Some of
them, of course, are professionals at the muck-
raking business, and deserve only contempt and a
brick ; but the rest are, at other seasons of the
year, well-meaning enough fellows, who would as
lief drink with a Micky as a Macky; and it would
be a kind law which would burv their annual
disease in oblivion with the rest of the unpublished
matter. Probably, in the phrase of the Argus
and the Herald, the time is not yet ripe for the
new law; but Dill Macky and his “push” are
ripening it fast.
From “ Saints and Savages,” a story of five years’
experience in the New Hebrides, by Dr. Robert
Lamb: —
In the first place these natives (Kanakas) are not con-
stituted for such hard work (the carrying’ of green
bunches of bananas to the trading vessel). We, as mis-
sionaries, live with them, study them, and know them.
I tell you they are not able for it. Look at those “ boys ”
on the jetty yonder. One of them came to me with a
ruptured vessel at the back of the eye. He was carrying
a sack of potatoes, and suddenly went blind in that. eye.
Another was lifting a sack of flour and strained his back.
Inflammation followed, and he was carried to the hospital
and his pelvis found to be riddled with abscesses. The
sacral wedge, or the keystone of the pelvic arch, had
given way. There was no hope for him; and he died
after a few weeks of profuse suppuration. It is the
same with the natives who go to Queensland. They can’t
stand the long hours, and the sudden changes of climate ;
and you know the great reproach against the trade is that
it kills three or four Kanakas to one white man. Their
tissues are too soft. They get consumption ; come home
to die ; and infect their fellows It is sheer nonsense
to say that these Kanakas can do work on plantations the
white men cannot stand. Say, if you will, that the black
skin is the cheaper article, despite the death-rate, and
we understand each other.
The germs of disease wage war upon the human
body. They enter insiduously the human frame, attacking
it in its most vital part, undermining the constitution
until the whole is irretrievably ruined. Science is taxed
in every way to cope with the source of universal and pre-
mature death. In such extremes where should the sick
man seek relief ? He should consult the specialists
of the Freeman and Wallace Institutes, Sydney and Mel-
bourne, who are renowned for their skill and reliability in
the treatment of men’s dangerous deadly diseases. They
excel because they have made these diseases their special
study, and they cure more men of their troubles than
any other firm of specialists in Australasia. Is it not
reasonable to expect that they should excel where they
treat thousands of cas s, when the average medical man
only treats hundreds? If unable to call personally, a
letter or post card will bring the sufferer into active tomb
with the specialists in a few days from any part of
Australasia.*
RANSOM
STOPPING
V-
Per Bottle
ALL CHEMISTS:
& STORES h
'
A
Gives
Instahr relief
| from pain
killstne nerVe
Fill§ up tfie
CaCity and
It\e leetff are
again useful.
Tooftiache Cured
Posf free from rhs Sole Proprietors,
Australian Drug C? L t? ,Sydney.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
KOUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & GO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
*—Til 15—s
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance: society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices « • 10S Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,40 - assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national §ank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,226 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 42,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT mi. "
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,539
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175.812
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 64.00 C
£097,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Kdwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ASCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building’s, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital . .. £2,000,000
Pe Bankof g|ortii Queensland
Limited.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Uo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ...
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250 900 ... £350.000
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office— HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Nicole Universal Records
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records will fit
any and every disc talking machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPMES.
Two Special instruments—“ The Colonial ’’and
“ The New Standard.”
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE Free on application.
W. G. KING, Sole Agent,
316 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
C ° UC
k \H« rLUEN^.
SUppmg.
3NT. 33. Xj.
(NORD-DEUTSOHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA Tnd JAPAN
From SYDNEY Eve> v Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
‘WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. sth AUGUST.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 2nd SEPTEMBER.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 30th SEPTEMBER.
‘Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
([apillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
ril Try It .•
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG &. AITKEIM. N.s.w. Barber's Supply
House. 654 GEORGE STREET,
WHITE STAR LINE.
mm.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about
. 11th AUGUST,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC,
and SUE VIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
yatal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
DAMASCUS
MILTIADES
MORAVIAN
R. McKilliam
T. F. Spalding
N. Allan ..
Noon, July 29
Noon, Aug. 19
Noon. Sept. 9
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and. Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
O 23 S.S. 00. -A-. a/EXCi -A-. I-. I UNT 3ES.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. VENTURA, 6200 TONS. S A I LS MONDAY, JULY 31.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &e., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO.. Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER I’ITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
THROUGH
===== PICTURESQUE
1= , - =7— ISLANDS.
To Singapore, via the Dutch East Indies ! The sister ships
Airlie and Guthrie (2338 tons) leave Sydney alternately every
month on regular cruises through these tropical seas. These
steamers are fitted with the latest electrical and cold storage
convenienc.es, thus ensuring tourists, the utmost comfort
throughout the tour. The round trip occupies 52 days, and
costs £4O. For full information of the above, or shorter trips,
call or write to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Upon - ali - Glasses - cf
Security. —-
LOWEST INT-EEST.
EASY TERMS.
£
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress U ury.
3Xr.S3.~W.
fljont de pete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia..
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mkkks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir Jons Skis, Lt.-Col, Burns (Burns,
Pliilp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jisssor, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, I). Clynk ; Adelaide. W. N.
M'Fari.ank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Eaiiquiiar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP 1.90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND and UNDIVIDED
PROFITS (used in Company’s business) £15,122 8 1
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gd. ; Posted, 8d
OCEAN
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
SAILS
AUG. 7.
A FAVORITE STEAMER ON THE PACIFIC.
PORTS OF CALL—
Brisbane Lancala Bay, Fiji
Suva, Fiji—Fanning Island—Hono-
lulu and Victoria, B.C.
Connects at Vancovcr with
Canadian Railway.
Excursion to Canada, costing JB6O, includes all
Expenses on Steamer, Rail, and at Nine of
the Finest Hotels in America.
The Beautiful Isles of the Pacific and the Finest Land
Scenery in the World are on this route.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets.
Next Sailings—
SEPT. 4, OCT. 2, OCT. 30.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), The Three Donkies (a good joke), the Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character-
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
>y New York Novelty Co.,
* 710 George Street, Sydney.
AORANGI
SOOTH BRITISH
OFFICES :
SOUTH BRITISH CHAMBERS, 12 Bridge St., Sydney.
GEO. H. MOORE. Manager. CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
One of the
Wealthiest Fire
and Marine Insur-
ance Companies
doing business in
Australia, and
noted for its
Promptness and
Liberality in
Settlements.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Innamincka, Friday
July 28.
S.S. Kanowna, Wednesday,.
August 2.
BRISBANE, \
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE, r
And Ports North to Cairns. I
S.S. Marloo, July 22.
S.S. Allinga, Friday, July 28
Ttest and cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL. & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract withtha
French Government,, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombav, lncua, Cnma
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrlvat at Marseilles English interpreters meet!
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Ollioe*
Queen's Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
amuiili -mm iruumvo.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“ E. and M.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
E\ Eta CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted wi lli Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Foi handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. UO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTITS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will he
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LOiIDORi
the (England),
LANGHAIVI
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
nodern Appointments. iloderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comroru and convenience at—
MRS, TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade.
SI. KILDA.
f JiHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
J the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
11
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
%A/IMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
*“ Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lilt.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.


lis the
Sauciest Sauce
(MADE IN AUSTRALIA)
■■
*
'jS
r*
Un
ara
gglS AT
Si
y»ERS
,¥ *"**'-"t.;
Bs*«-'»*. >§t
,rf¥ 'M
53ril
**
|3 : Jh
\.
Should be Kept in Every Home,


Alfred seems to be going in on a good
wicket. With the assured support of the Labor
party on a definite programme, and the assistance
of D.C.L.— not the degree, but the whisky—the
Deakin team should be enabled to score heavily
in their first session. After all, the best policy is
the policy of seeking the best policy from D.C.L.
the “spiritual ” foster father of Wisdom.*
Most Politicians need a box
To drown their ravings in,
The Poet wants a few hard knocks,
The “Dead-beat ” wants some “ tin.”
The Pillman makes a bold display
The public to allure—
But the man who sneezes night and day.
Wants Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Indigestion.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills Cure it Per-
manently, Cure it so it Stays Cured.
The causes of indigestion are many, but more
frequently arises from improper kind of food,
hasty eating, over-indulgence in spirits, foul air,
excessive brain work, and worry. The eating of
rich foods at all hours prevents the from
properly digesting them, and decomposition and
fermentation take place, which cause a gas to form,
which, pressing on the heart, makes it palpitate,
or there is a disagreeable gulping of wind, or
perhaps the food sours and lays like a lump of lead
in the stomach. This produces weakness of the
stomach, and before the person is aware of it he
has dyspepsia fastened upon him. For this dis-
tressing complaint there is nothing like
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. They cleanse the
stomach of all its impurities, aiding m a mild and
gentle way the digestive and nutritive organs m
assimilating the food.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE &
g-ts
RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
bn Saturday week, Sydney saw the N.S.W.
Rugby team trodden in the dust by the Maorilanders (19
to nil). On the following Wednesday, the Metropolitan
team was beaten by 22 to 3. On Saturday, nigh upon
40,000 people gathered to see the crowning defeat. The
N.S.W. team was pale blue, while the Maorilanders were
black as their own shingle beaches. From the first, it be-
came apparent that the Cornstalks had seen the folly of
waiting till the ball came to them, and their forwards
hurled themselves on the leather in a way that was good
to see. Maoriland was astonished. This was something
it never expected, and the Maoriland wing-forward came
rushing round the scrum to collar the N.S.W. scrum-half,
and hold him, before he got the leather —and was penalised.
Referee Howe had got over his attack of fetish worship,
and every trick found his whistle blowing. Still, in spite
of the unexpected alertness of both N.S.W. forwards and
the referee, the Maorilanders slowly forced the light
blues down towards their own goal line. Then they came
with a wonderful rush, but N.S.W. full-back Penman was
a gem far above rubies, and he kicked coolly and accur-
ately on the line, and rush after rush was sent back by his
beautiful footwork. It was a strenuous struggle, and
raged back and forwards between the central lines till
the Maorilanders were struggling right on their own line
and only avoided disaster by forcing. Then the Corn-
stalks began to take long shots at the goal from marks,
and the Maorilanders, playing a hideous off-side game, fell
in for a whole succession Of penalty kicks, which neutral-
ised a lot of their beat deeds. Their trouble was that
they could not get the ball out to the backs on account
of the smothering tactics of the Cornstalk forwards,
who were virtually playing a wing forward. When at
last they did score it was after a struggling rush, in
which the ball bounded across the line. One of the
Maorilanders managed to rush over and -fall upon it.
The shot at goal failed. Up to half-time the people had
not seen one of the brilliant passing charges for which the
Maorilanders are so famous—every attempt to get the
ball out to the backs having been smothered. At the
interval the score was Maoriland 3 (for a try), N.S.W. nil.
“Wait till the second spell, and we’ll go
through you like a geyser through mud 1 ” said a hard-
faced Maorilander beside the writer. Both wind and sun
were now in favor of N.S.W., and the blues dribbled
right down on to the Maoriland line. After a desperate
struggle the blacks were beginning to work it back again,
when Russell, of N.S.W., took a mark, and Smith kicked a
goal. The waving of the straw hats on the hill looked like
foam caps on a heaving sea of ink, and a roaring as of
many bull-elephants marked the fact that N.S.W. was
leading by a point. It sent the Cornstalks quite mad,
and the Maorilanders grew desperate. Hitherto the
Cornstalk forwards had been the centre of attraction,
but now their backs came Out, and with strong passing
rushes carried the ball right down the field. The Maori-
lander full-back Gillet kicked steadily for the line. When
with a great effort the Cornstalks hurled the struggling
Maorilanders right back over their line, and a long,
blue figure leaped for the sphere, Gillet delibe-
rately tried to kick the ball in among the crowd.
It struck the barbed wire, was punctured, and
he managed to save the situation by falling on it.
The Cornstalks got the ball again, and passed it back and
forwards across the front of the Maori goal like a crowd
of jugglers. Every attempt of the blacks to smother it
was eluded till, from a seven-man pass, Burleigh, who had
already bandied it twice, got the ball again, and kicked a
beautiful goal with his left foot. After that the
general condition of the crowd was one of frenzy.
Murnin was playing a wing-forward game for
N.S.W., and, backed up by Anlezark, led a
rush which looked like an inevitable score, when Anle-
zark was badly injured and had to be carried off. When
he recovered and came on again he was still groggy, and
the respite saved Maoriland. Time was running out, only
five minutes to go, and then from a scrum in the centre
the Maorilanders got the leather. For once the Corn-
stalks made no attempt to smother. Like a flash the
Maoriland backs were in motion, and across the field it
went. All in a moment the Cornstalks recovered them-
selves, but it was too late, the try was scored and the goal
successfully kicked. By just one moment of the old inert
play, N.S.W. had lost its chance, and the game that should
have been a victory for Australia ended in a draw-
eight points each.
■* " * * *
Otago University men had better luck than
their countrymen at Sydney Cricket Ground on Satur-
day. The so-called combined team of past and present
players was a very disorganised rabble, and the Maori-
landers stamped on it. Score was 14 to 3.
* * * *
Under Australian rules the Y.M.O.A. broke
loose again on Saturday, North Sydney being curled up
by 44 to 30 points. It was a good game, each side
attacking and scoring in turn, but the Y.M.O.A defence
was stronger than that of the Hill-men. Paddington
managed to re-assert itself at the expense of Sydney,
winning by 59 to 37 points. The Redfern-East Sydney
match, at Redfern Park, was like a battle of giants ; the
side that had the sun in its favor won, and the inter-
change of ends seemed to favor Redfern, which came out
on top by 51 to 42. The Newtown-Balmain struggle was
a romp over, Newtown winning by 75 to 41. Y.M.C.A.
and Sydney are now level in the competition with 18
points each, and Newtown, by virtue of its win over
Balmain, comes next with 16 points. The others are just
visible in the distance.
....
Football in Melbourne continues to supply
interesting games, with good crowds to watch them. The
only notable occurrence last Saturday was the disaster
that overwhelmed Fitzroy at Geelong, where the ex-Pre-
miers went down bump, scoring but 2 goals 15 behinds to
the weasiders’ 9 goats'B behinds. As ’Boy was heretofore
level with Gollingiwood at the top of the list (one
defeat each), and Geelong was at the other end of the
ladder, this can only be called a “ surprising reversal of
form”; but this is about the season when one looks for
the gentleman named S. Reversal —sometimes he is a
person who meanders round with a bag and a hooked
nose. Of course, ’Roy’s kicking was vile, but even had
they- scored 17 goals to the others’ 9, they would
still have been short of their true form, and there were
no notable absentees from the side. “Sowth” defeated
Carlton on latter’s ground —a feat it hasn’t accomplished
since ’01 —by 3 points ’(6l to 58); but, though the best
teanv won, it was only.by good luck, as Carlton’s la.st two
behinds should have been sure goals. In the Association,
Williomstown, West Melbourne and North tie in the
lead,’ with Richmond a defeat to the bad, and the
regrettable “ Ports ” another loss more. These same
“ Ports ” met “ North ” on Saturday, finishing with 29
pointsto 54, and their failure to trample on their opponents
so annoyed their barrackers that after the final bell they
rushed the Northern players, and started to hammer the
pavilibn with them and otherwise induce gravel-rash and
similar excrescences. Players on both sides and
promiscuous barrackers had a lively mix-up for several
minutes before a couple of troopers got in and started to
ride over everybody. The umpire wasn’t killed—but that
was probably because he got out of harm’s way before the
discussion commenced.
* * * *
They take their “College football” very
seriously in Adelaide. This year’s match between the
two leading schools, played on the Oval, had a test-match
attendance so far as the stands were concerned. Prince
Alfred beat St. Peters by 7 goals 11 behinds to 4 and 12,
and a city sharebroker presented the two best players on
the winning side (chosen by the team’s own vote) with a
Great Boulder share each. Dolling, who made 311 for
the same side in the cricket match and received a B. Hill
Proprietary share for it, was playing, but is nothing out
of the common at football.
* * *
A little District Union, controlling Rugby foot-
ball at Coventry (England) is up against a hard thing.
Bilton won the local cup final, and the trophy was handed
over; after which NeiVbold, the losing club, appealed (on the
ground of encroachment by spectators). Appeal upheld,
and a fresh game ordered. Bilton refused to play again.
Newbold men turned up at the appointed time, went out
in their ordinary clothes, scored a try, and were awarded
the game. Now the Union has to get the cup back from
Bilton, and there seems to be no process of law that will
do it.
A * -n *
Poor old Harry Trott wrote to the Bendigo
Advertiser last week, complaining that Warren, the
Derbyshire fast bowler, didn’t play for his county against
the Australians because “ the English cricketing authori-
ties do not wish him to give the Australian Eleven any
more practice against his bowling than they will get in
the next test match.” Considering that Trott has
captained one or two teams through an English tour,
he ought to, know that county cricket teams are under
local management. The Derbyshire people care- a lot
more for their own “glory” than for the question
whether Warren will be fresh or stale to the visitors when
he meets them at Manchester, if he does meet them.
Warren was not such a huge success in the last test, any-
how. /
* * * * -
The “off” and “leg theory” practices of Aus-
tralian trundlers in first and second tests roused the
English papers to fury. Considering that in the third
test these tactics were even more patent, the next batch
of English papers will probably be quite unfit for reading.
The Australians do not seem to be put out by the storm
they have raised, and remark that they did not visit the
dear old mother land to bowl so that her stay-at-home
children might win. If the tactics are illegal, well there
are umpires ; and, anyhow, the team is there to win if pos-
sible, and if that can’t be done, to be beaten by as little
as it can. The Englishmen are free to try any theories
of their own, and as long as the umpires don’t make
any remarks the Australians will just have to put up
with them.
* * * *
Armstrong’s deeds with bat and ball in England
stamp him as the best all-round player of the XI. In bat-
ting he has left them all far behind, with the exception of
Noble, and with the leather he is a good second to La ver.
It makes one’s hair stand on end to think what might
have happened to Australia if Armstrong hadn’t gone
with the blessed team.
* * * *
He Armstrong’s 303 not out. Previous big Aus-
tralian scores in England are: Trumper, 300 not out;
Murdoch, 286 not out and 211; Noble, 284 ; Armstrong, 248
not out; Graham, 219; and Massie, 206. This last was made
in 1882, and, being the first big score from Australia, it
created more excitement than Armstrong’s.
* * * *
Next Saturday will see the struggle between
Towns and Stanbury, on the Parramatta River, for the
sculling championship of the world. Towns and Stan-
bury, being good business men, beat the Boat Trust and
the people who own the foreshores, and made them dis-
gorge a fair proportion of the prospective lucre that will
be paid by the public to view the race. Towns is a light-
weight, and will probably row at about lOst. 101 b.,
while big Jim Stanbiiry will have a displacement
of somewhere about 12st. 81b. Stanbury has the
strength, Towns has the skill. In the days
when he was champion in the long ago, Stanbury was
gritty and had the endurance of several men ; but
whether that has come back to him in the course of his
long and strenuous training no man knoweth. That
Towns can last the distance irrespective of pace no one
doubts, but there are many who have a firm belief that
the first mile will exhaust Stanbury. It is generally
understood by those who pin their faith to him that Stan-
bury will make the pace hot from the first, and hurl his
new Neilsen boat through the water at such a rate that
Towns will have no hope of making up the leeway. If he
can get far enough ahead in the first spurt he may win,
but the writer’s idea is that if Towns holds him the first
mile, Stanbury’s name is plain Mud. All the same,
although he will back Towns at level money, he will take
odds on either man.
* * * • ■
Unaffected by the excitement of Maoriland v.
N.S.W., at Sydney Cricket Ground, where players foamed
at the mouth and lady barrackers fainted, the lacrosse
players of Sydney went on with their premiership com-
petition. At Petersham Oval, Balmain and Marrickville
played a fast and well-sustained game. Balmain had the
advantage of the sun, and scored three goals in rapid
succession. In the second quarter, Marrickville at-
tacked for all it was worth, but the Balmainiacs were
as strenuous in defence as they had been in attack,
and kept the ball out. The whole trouble with
Marrickville is that it goes in for brilliant indi-
vidual play, and an ounce of combination goes further
than a ton of individualism. The third quarter found it
struggling desperately, but every man played more or
less on his own ; and the result was that the attack was
beaten off, and a sudden rush saw the enemy score
another goal. After that the Marrickvillers lost hope,
and the game ended with Balmain 6 to nil. The Burwood-
North Sydney match did not attract much attention,
both sides being represented by weak teams. Still the
passing was unexpectedly good, and play was fast and
open. Altogether, it was a much more exciting game
than was expected, and North Sydney won by 9 goals to 7.
« * * *
Kieran could only get second to Billing.ton in
the long distance (5 miles 60 yards) championship of
England on the Thames. Kieran is unfortunate in having
struck the best all-round swimmer England has produced
riir ht on the top of his form. Kieran did remarkably well
milt in AustrX ra and C y e e 8 i with or so for pre-
mratton in a climatic environment he Pushed
England’s wonder from end to end, aithough Billingto
had been slowly and steadily preparing all through the
winter for the contest. Jarvis, who was third, a quarter
of a mile away, had previously won
in succession, and beat Billington in 1903 and 1904. On
both occasions, however, Billington was attacked by
cramp. # * * *
Australian cycling promoters are inclined to
back down on their former decision to pay nob.gappear-
ance fees and give the extra cash as prizes. They begin
to whisper that the foreigner will noo come on the mere
chance of winning big sums ; and they have an idea that
if they cut the prizes down by 50 per cent, they would ge
just as large entries of local riders. In the meantime, the
wheelists are putting on all the pressure they can in a
noseless, underground sort of way, and it’s an interesting
situation. * # *
As anticipated, Major Taylor has, in conse-
quence of his suspension by the Yankee governing body,
announced his definite retirement from the track. He
will devote the rest of his days to driving round Worcester
(U S A.) in his motor-car, ana collecting his rents. Aney
amount to enough to keep him in neat if not gaudy
luxury.
* * * *
“Cyclist ” : Re “Down the Range” bike yarn,
by O. A. Jeffries (B. 29/6 ’O5). Anyone who attempted to
ride down such an awful descent as he describes with his
feet on the front forks, deserves the catastrophe he will
most probably get. Let me advise anyone who has to ride
down a real hill: If a fixed wheel, back-pedal and brake
as well; then both wheels are steadied, and the strain on
front forks lessened. If brake or chain goes, jam one foot
into front fork, over the wheel, and brake with it. If hill
is very bad and the bike a free-wheel, or you want to be
on the safe side, drag some bushes behind by a stout cord
12ft. or so long. This is the safest brake cf all, and the
dust it creates is very impressive—for the next man.
Have put in two years among the hills in the Hill End
(N.S.W.) district, where 1200 ft. steady drop in three miles
is by no means out of the way, and have disted all these
hills with the bush brake.
* * * *
Famous sire Far Niente, descended from Gal-
liard and the Doncaster mare Lotus, died at Tucka Tucka
(N S W.) t’other day. He was foaled 18 years ago, and
imported five years'later. Far Niente did well racing.
Among the best-known of his get were Ampler, Kenley,
The Idler, Undaunted, Sequence, Pendant, and Bivalve.
* * * *
Somebody, with a lot of misdirected energy, has
gone into the matter and discovered that last year 84
saddling-paddock, 108 Leger and 52 Flat (flat refers to
locality and not to character) bookmakers paid £3700
to the’A.J.C. for betting privileges. If the same men
pay this year they will contribute £9520 to headquarters,
£1845 to Rosehill, £3OBO to Canterbury Park and Moore-
field, or a total of £14,445, for the privilege of betting.
Add the wages of clerks, their registration (£1 each),
price of admission and other incidentals, and consider the
way they live, and the diamonds they wear, and the result
will give some idea of what an almighty idiot the punter
is—for it is the punter wh > pays for it all.
* * * •
“Dux” : Re racehorse nomenclature. St.
Leger opened up the saintly horse calendar in M.L., and
his offspring blossomed forth as Saints Peter and Paul ;
Saints Clement, Hilda, Andrew, etc. Then high-toned
Saints Ursula, Olga, Vincent, etc., came on the turf.
The fashion has spread to the hacks, and Saints Bill and
Joe, also Jimmv the Saint, are forerunners of possible
Saints Dinny, Andy, Jerry, Mickey, and worse. Other
atrocities are Scrap-iron Jack, Noxious Weed, Local
Option, Taxpayer, Shanks, Swop, and Wet Blanket.
The M.L. Racing Calendar publishes with
monotonous regularity the “ unpaid forfeit list,” every
week of the year, and sportsmen are beginning to find it
an eyesore and a genuine turf nuisance that ought to be
obliterated. It is a long list, and some of the amounts
have been owing to clubs over a dozen years. The total
amount is something over £l5OO, and the conference is to
discuss two propositions—one that all amounts over six
years old be wiped out, and the other that all amounts over
three years ditto. The moral is that racing clubs should
do business on a strictly cash basis.
* * * *
“ Ku-Klux ” : Outside the Caulfield racecourse
is a spot locally known as Battler’s Hill. Here is con-
gregated every race-day a marvellous collection of pun-
ters. Betting'is openly carried on, the “bookie” giving
no ticket. He simply takes his client’s initials, which are
mostly jotted down on his shirt-cuff, if he has a cuff,
which he mostly hasn’t. You can sometimes trust him
with a “ tray.” Bet a “ sprat,” and you should attach
yourself to him with a padlock till the race is run. Bet a
“ deener,” and it is necessary to hire two pugilists of good
staying power to stand one on each side till pay-out time.
Between races the man who can “ head ’em ” a score of
times unfailingly does a good business. The man with
the wheel of fortune also plies his trade “as low as a
penny and as high as you like,” for he “ bars no stakes, no
way of playing.” Somehow the needle always stops at
the number on which nobody has bet.
* * ♦ *
“ Beau S.” : Years ago I knew an old fisherman
in Sydney town who swore he knew every fish in the har-
bor. Well, if he didn’t know every fish, he could tell
most of them by the way they bit. He was to be found
almost every day on a little jetty near Mosman’s with a
hand-line. As he’d get a bite, he’d say, “Ah, a trum-
peter,” or whatever it was, and he was invariably correct.
One day fish were scarce, and he dozed off there in the
sunshine. We hauled up his line, hooked a tin on it, and
put it down again. By-and-bye he awoke. Something
seemed to be nibbling. He jagged. “ Feels like a tommy-
rough,” he muttered with a puzzled air, and hauled up
vigorously. “ No, it’s a skate ! . . . No, it’s a yellow-
tail.” The tin skirled about as he pulled it up. “ No,
no—l know what the dashed thing is. It’s a schnapper—
yes, a schnapper—no, that’s not a schnapper’s bite—it’s %
dog-fish.” But just then the tin came up. “ No,” he
said, “it’s a blanky fool.”
* * * *
The progress of the motor ! In Adelaide an
old church has been turned into a motor-shed.
* • * *
M.L. Government has been tinkering with the
Gaming and Lotteries Act once again, the principal
clause in its new measure being directed against agencies
for the sale of “ Tatt.’s ” sweep tickets. But the legisla-
tion will prove of little avail, as money can always be sent
to “Tatt.’s” through the banks. And the Government’s
own bank sends as much as any.
* * * *
English sporting papers record that dog-racing
is very popular in the East End of London. The dogs are
regularly trained —and it is rarely that one running at
catch-weight scores a win. The distance is usually 130 or
150 yards.
* * * *
A London paper informs an admiring world
that Edward VII., “at Dunrobin Castle in September,
1870, organised a cricket match against the servants on
the estate, and scored six before he was bowled. ” And
what minion dared to bowl him when he was just about
to score seven ?
* * * *
Woollahra still leads in N.S. W. baseball compe-
tition, and on Saturday downed Leichhardt by an innings
and 10 runs, a most unholy d feat. Paddington came a
great smash in the Centennial Park, University trampling
on it by 25 to 9 runs. The close match of the day was
that of North Sydney v. Chatswood, when the hill
men downed the Middle Harbor suburb by one lonesome
run, the scores being 20 and 21. Petersham beat Burwood
by 9 to 7, after an uninteresting game. But then baseball
is always uninteresting.
Geo. Cockshutt, the Hobart boxer who recently
defeated the best man the visiting fleet could produce,
and more recently belted light-weight Maher out under
the ropes in less than two rounds, is a sturdy lump of a
footballer with some pugilistic cleverness. A year or two
ago he was first in the most murderous go-as-you-please
contest ever held in Australia—the whisky trophy race
from Hobart wharf to the pinnacle of Mt. Wellington and
hack. The run was accomplished in excellent time, and
two of the competitors perished in the snow. Cockshutt
was in football training at the time, and won by a few
yards from the next man, who, half blind from exhaus-
tion, fell several times within the final half-mile.
• * *
The Harold Smith versus J. Blackmore scrap at
Sydney Gaiety on Saturday night was not an exhilarating
sight. Blackmore was obviously the better man, and the
curious way Smith fought suggested herculean effort on
the part of a trussed fowl. The only things worthy' of
mention were the amazing antics by which Smith escaped
some severe-looking swipes. There is no one at present
in these parts who hits such a dreadful-looking hit as
Jake Blackmore, and some of the smites he smote at
Smith, and which Smith escaped by turning himself
inside out and swallowing the lot, were dreadful to view
with the naked eye. But a scrap in which one man con-
tinues to save himself by a series of contortions becomes
wearisome, and it was only a case of Blackmore getting-
one or two in. Smith was down repeatedly, and at last
the unfortunate contortionist was caught in the sixth
round before he had time to again turn himself inside out,
and was extinguished with a succession of blows on either
side of the point.
* * * *
“K.K.”: A few weeks ago, while crossing
Albert Park one evening, I came on an excited group of
young men earnestly refereeing a healthy fight. During
a lull I recognised the combatants as two well-know n
cyclists. I learned that the fight Was the result of a race
which had been “ fixed up ” beforehand. After the race,
the winner (one of the fighters) had refused to part the
other man’s share of the spoil. I watched the melee .or
some time and then inquired the amount involved. It
was 255. Shade of Zimmerman ! Two men, if not actually
first-rankers, at least well up, battering each others
features for 255. !
* * * *
A pair of full-grown lads who quarrelled about
a girl, and agreed to fight it out in a paddock at East
Brighton (Melb.), were brought to court and fined 40s.
apiece for assaulting one another. What a shocking dis-
couragement to honest sport ! If it had been a gate-
money entertainment, the winner to take 75 per cent, of
the net profits, the same two lads might have fought and
bled with impunity, but because they did it for love the
Bench charged them forty shillings each.
* * » **
N.S.W. amateur boxing and wrestling cham-
pionships showed no sign of any budding Peter Jacksons
or Hackenschmidts among the 78 entrants. The boxers
were very amateur—they just banged away at each otnei
till one or the other dropped or till time ran out. All the
same, the public seemed to be mightily interested, and
first-class attendances were the rule. The first night s
gate is said to have recouped the Sports Club all its out-
lay- .
“Jab.”: Re “H.G.” (Bulletin 13/7/’O5) on
amateur boxers’ lack of condition as compared with pros.
Explanation is that the amateur almost without exception
does 10 times the work of a pro. in the ring. Boxing in
public is new to him—his brain is at high tension alway s,
which is a big strain in itself; he is at the extreme of
nervous anxiety every moment, and he Jigs and jumps
and keeps his arms moving as if galvanically controlled.
A pro. need have no condition at all—may be absolutely
hog fat and thick in the wind—and yet he will see the
best conditioned average amateur out at boxing quieaei
than at any other game.
A Melbourne grass widow lately sued her
husband for maintenance for two infants, the off-
spring of a lodger—and nearly got it, too.
“P. Winkle” : Why doesn’t our working
man, who says he wants a White Australia, help
us to get it? The Waranga Basin Camp (Vic.)
carries over a dozen Hindu hawkers, who coin
money while the white brother starves, the
toilers in bowyangs robbed one white hawker to
his ruin. Now, white men with wares to sell
shun the Basin like Sheol. But the blackfellow
grows fat. They don’t rob him, and the women
simply adore his white teeth. That s about the
extent of white feeling at the scene of Skinner s
murder.
“ O’Fipp ” : “Gr.B.’s” remarks on Athol
Brose (B. 22/6/’O5) recall Hood’s epigram
Charmed with a drink which Highlanders compose,
A German traveller exclaimed with glee :
“ Potztausend ! sare, if dis is Athol Brose,
How good dere Athol Bbetry must be ! ”
Be the coal-pit trapper boy
You meet him in the chilly dawn of a raw winter morn-
ing, in the dusk of the middle shift, or at midnight on the
dog-watch, but he is always bubbling over with devilment.
Fear he doesn’t know the meaning of. No terrors for
him has that fallen-away feeling in the pit of the stomach
when the driver drops the cage from the ground-level, and
makes his run at full-pelt to the three-quarter limit. The
trapper seldom even troubles to catch hold of the hanging-
bar, but stands in the cage whistling and singing uncon-
cernedly, with a heavy lamp slung in a ring and collar
round his neck, or stuck in his belt, or dangling between
his legs.
The trapper’s work is not hard, but it’s lonely. The
way to his post is often long and rough, and an hour’s
walk below ground is no pastime. His chief work is to
open a door to let the wheeler and his set of skips pass
through and then immediately close it again. Thus is
his name derived, for he traps the main air-current
against his door and diverts it to the inner workings. The
jumping up every now and again to open the door seri-
ously interferes with his manufacture of horse-hair snares
to catch blue “ mountains,” greenies, and red-cheeks in
parrot-time ; so the trapper sometimes fixes a rope on the
door and works it with his foot. He may also give the
wheeler a slew round a curve with the skips and assist
him in spragging-up.
Wonderful is the dexterity with which these little
gnomes can, in the semi-darkness, thrust wooden sprags.
about 2ft. long, into a set of skips going at full speed. In
addition they may have to look after a skip-greaser. One
boy can do' it better than three, but three can invent
more jokes than 12 ordinary mortals.
Generosity is the trapper-boy’s strong point. If he has
only one cigarette-butt of two-draw s-and-one-spit capa-
city, he’ll give you the two draws and have the spit him-
self.
THE CRICKET CRAZE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is just by way of answer (lying fever-racked in bed)
From one who never played the game for loot,
To those verses in Thb Bulletin with “Cricket Craze.”
at head,
And the name of one Grant Hervey at the foot.
You are sick, you say, O Hervey! of the cricket things
they talk
At your hash-house,'at your bank and at your club,
In your train and on your tramcar, and by ways you have
to walk,
Not forgetting e’en your theatre and pub.
And you heave a rugged sonnet in a heedless sort of way
At the barrackers who barrack for the game,
Who are “cricket-fiends” and “hoodlums,” cigarette*
stained, so you say,
Beery, ignorant and dull beyond reclaim.
They have mouths just like portmanteaux, “stretching
round from ear to ear ”
(Rather large, that little order, don’t you think ?\
And the players and the playing, so you’d make it all
appear,
Are no class for soulful wallopers of ink.
Right! O Hervey of the hash-house! But some be who
love the play
Who do not soak themselves at city bars ;
And who hold the game, as exercise, a much more manly
way
Than chucking mental hand-springs down the stars.
VIC.
MILKY WHITE.


2)
YeryOldVatted
liqueurWiiisky.
DistilledScßottled by
'c*u
Kilmarnock, Scotland.
-
Ae
r
m
‘Ij'OR the pers n who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
J ONE COFVEIS PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS,
WILLIAMS’
SOFTLHS the
HARSHEST BEARD
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS'
BARBERS’ BAR.
Every Bar weighs 17 Hor.est
English Ounces, divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE BT., BYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring-, three tools in
one. You will never be without it.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
FIRST PRIZE
IN TUB
Q-HOUR^
0 ART UNION.
WHO WANTS IT?
£5OO for Is.
SECOND PRIZE, value £ 100
THIRD „ „ JBSO
and 200 other Valuable Prizes. Total
Value, £l5OO.
DRAWN, OCTOBER 28th.
Someone’s Sure to Win.
Buy Your Tickets Early.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper
on 2nd November, 1905.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all
Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN Me DOUG ALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
==BUY—
PHONOGRAPHS
■ BY MAIL !
We have every good kind of Phono-
graph, from the small and inexpensive
one to the finest instrument made.
THE HOME PHONOGRAPH,
Price £6
THE GEM 50S.
THE STANDARD £4
send Poe catalogues
AND FULL PARTICULARS.
NEW RECORDS by Every
Mail.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
“My Opticians,”
Consulting: Opticians & Spectacle Makers,
393 QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY,
Facing Royal Hotel.
SPECIAL OFFER.
INDIGO BLUE
SERGE SUITS
751
EXERT CUTTING. BEST WORKMANSHIP.
Samples and Meas.ne Forms Sent to Any Address.
Equal to any Sydne
Melbourne 95/- Sut\
THE LARGEST HIGH-CLASS ESTABLISHMENT IN AUSTRALIA.
E. T. WALSH,
359 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Melbourne public stayed away considerably
from Sudermann’s “ Fires of St. John,” mainly owing;: to
the azure reputation of the third act, and the rumor that
the Boston authorities had stopped the; play during its
American run. The alleged impropriety is due to the
limited capacity of those shocked rather than to any
shocking intentions on the part of >;,the author or
actors. Strong- the passage undoubtedly is in every
sense, and the curtain falls just jh time. Still,
it represents the straightforward of ; a
pair of lovers, and is decency itself beside .the attempted
criminal assault over which Kerristian iafitilies raved iin
“ The Sign of the Cross,” or the tawdry coarseness of the
first act of “ Zaza,” which the same public swallowed
whole. The people who accept these scenes without
scruple belong to the same class which is horrified at a
nude masterpiece and enjoys giggling over a silly under-
clothing joke.
Now that publication of the fact can bring no harm to
the person concerned, it may be announced that
“King Dodo” was re-written by J. F. Sheridan. The
Widow ranks his roles thus : Ist, author ; 2nd, manager ;
3rd, actor.
Bland Holt shows a strange lack of business enterprise
in not organising a No. 2 company to take some of his
valuable melodramas on tour. If Anderson can make
money with his “shockers” outside of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, there must surely be a demand for spectacular
melodramas of the sort tiiat Bland has a large stock ,of.
Leaving his heaviest productions—“ White Heather,”
“The Great Ruby,” “The Flood Tide,out of the
question, his stock includes some powerful plays with not
more than about 20 characters on the programme. For
instance, “ A Woman’s Revenge,” “The Bells of Hasle-
mere,” “The Fatal Card,” and “The Cotton King,”
wherein there is not a horse-race, nor an army of super-
numeraries to be staged. *' , Jj-
The reports of Henry Irving’s physical decline seem to
have been exaggerated. At latest dates he was contem-
plating another revival (at Drury Lane)-of “The Bells”
and “ Louis XI.” in which be has to play the most arduous
of old man characters. In his actual age and aged
appearance Irving was never so suitable to his mpst
popular parts. He doesn’t lag superfluous .on the stage as
compared with the heavy ancients who impersonate young
men in a.gay, but mildewed, spirit, and he doesn’t invite
ridicule like the antique famous actresses who revive
themselves after a long lapse of years. Lady Bancroft is
said to be itching to face the footlights again, and if she
reappears it will be in “ Diplomacy,” masquerading as a
fascinating creature of 30 or thereabouts, as though she
had the vitality of Bernhardt.
Jack Thompson— son of Joe Thompson, the one-time
Australian bookmaker—has lately made “a pronounced
success ”at one of the London theatres. But how comes
it that his father’s name is dragged into the mention of
Thompson junior’s success? Perhaps the paragraphs
were inspired by the vociferous Joe. ]
“ J. A.C.” : “ Melb.” (B. 6 7/’O5) is slightly in error when
he says that Melbourne Opera House had Habbe’s copy of
his drop at the Sydney Victoria—a Gondola' and Palace
scene. .The original picture was at Sydney Prince of
Wales Opera House, now Theatre Royal, and occupied the
whole of the drop. The reproduction in Melbourne was
on a smaller scale, in the form of a central medallion.
MALT CI2JC
For Ladies!
Delicacy of design is the
striking feature of dainty toilet
accessories. The design here
pictured is an excellent example
of a perfume bottle. It is new,
the shape is popular, while the
bottle is white crystal glass,
handsomely cut, with a heavy
solid silver joint top. We stock
it in 2 sizes, 2\ inches high
4s. 6d., 3£ inches high ss. 6d. ;
Post free to any address. We
display an unlimited variety of
solid silver toilet requisites.
Send for our illustrated cata-
logue. A post card will bring
you a copy. A. Saunders, Sydney’s leading
jeweller, silversmith and optician, 809 to 817
George-street, opposite railway station, Sydney.*
A graduated land-tax has been added to
the fighting platform of the Federal Labor party.
No better idea could have been conceived. It
seems useless to wait for the States to make a
serious attack on the great land monopolies, and
there will be very little real progress till some
one attacks them. Besides, the Commonwealth
wants revenue for Federal old age pensions, for a
public debt sinking fund, for defences, and for
public works, and it must hustle for the revenue
in some direction.
When a Premier has no sense, no policy,
no constructive capacity, no political honesty, no
surplus that can stand investigation, no courage
to tackle large questions, and no genius for detail
to enable him to do much good with small ones, he
has to Yell About Something Easy. The “secret
machinations of Rome” come in very handy. The
“ necessity for combating the evils of Socialism’
is better than nothing. The “development of
our great national resources ” has helped many a
tenth-rate politician out of an awkward difficulty.
The “ gross injustice practised on N.S.W. in the
matter of the Federal capital ” is assisting Joe
Carruthers just at the moment to divert attention
from his awful loan expenditure, and his bogus
surplus, and his wholesale jobbing away of public
lands. And when everything else fails a resolute
desire to “ preserve the integrity of the empire ”
has been found a very useful platitude. Even
“reform of the Upper House” and a desperate
resolve “to restore true Constitutional Govern-
ment in its integrity ” have filled the bill before
now.
Every
Australian
Should make a point specifying
DUNLOP
RUBBER HEELS
when purchasing Goods o£ this
description.
REASONS WHY!
They are the Best.
They are made of RUBBER,
and give Best Wear.
They cost no more than the
foreign-made article.
They are made by Australians for
Australians by an Australian
firm that spends over
in Australasia every year.
Made in Shaped, Round and
Wurtemburg Patterns, in all Sizes.
Obtainable from •ll.Loadlng Boat Shops.
Be Sure and Get DUNLOPS.
DUKUjtP CO., ;a6 States & New Zealand
_ . -
N.S.W. Depot:
150 Clarence Street*
Sydney.
AT POVEETY POINT.
Recent advt. in Melb. Aon : “ Theatrical elephant, don-
key, or kangaroo skin wanted.” Such recklessness in the
manner of animal required suggests that some budding-
dramatist is ready to harness his genius to tyrant circum-
stance.
As the result of a recent U.S.A. magisterial decision,
24 members of the New York Theatre Trust are to be
tried for conspiracy for refusing one Metcalfe, a theatrical
critic, admission to 47 theatres under their control. The
managerial allegation is that the boycott wasn’t a result
of Metcalfe’s “ abusive criticisms ” of their plays, but was
solely to show their virtuous disapproval of his “ scur-
rilous and libellous attacks on the Jewish community,
from which a large number of our patrons are drawn.”
Van Biene got into a newspaper argument in Adelaide,
sundry patrons writing to complain that there were only
six players in the orchestra. The ’cellist replied by sim-
ply quoting his contract with Musgrove, the latter being
bound to supply “an efficient orchestra, in number
according to the towns visited.” V.B. somewhat ambigu-
ously offers to forward from London an article on his
Australian tour, “which, I promise you, will be most
interesting copy.”
“ Melb.” : Ye Gods ! I have just seen “ The School for
Scandal,” advertised as by “ John B. Sheridan Widow
O’Brine wrote it, for sure.
Manager Williamson announces his intention of reviving
“ Trilby ” at Melbourne Majesty’s, Nance O'Neil to be in
the name-part with the bare feet. Nance, it appears, has
done Trilb.v with marked success all over the United
States. The Bulletin has been trying to picture M‘Kee
Kankin as Little Billy, but, so far, without marked
s access.
“Melroyd”: Re that serio “Nellie Stewart ”at Mel-
bourne Temperance Hall. Lately met in a Vic. country
town “The Great Tivoli Co.” Artists bided as Marie
Lloy'd, Cinquevalli, and Nance O’Neil. Looked in just as
Nance was performing a sprightly cake-walk.
“ E.” writes :—“ Music-maker l’etersen has been reap-
pointed Melbourne University Professor for another five
weary years. During his first attempt, he hasn’t given
one really good concert; and his best tide to fame is that
he wears nice long hair and waves the baton in a shivery
kind of style, like grass blowing in the breeze. Also, he
thought bandsmen’s wages should be reduced (he comes
from the Cold Country). But he is a typical professor,
and that’s saying the best and the worst of him, and cast-
ing no needless aspersions on his hair.”
The young men of the present Age know how to turn a
pretty compliment with the beaux of the past. For
instance, in the Age notice of the first Melbourne per-
formance of “ Beauty and the Barge,” the writer says of
Mrs. Brough, who occupied the managerial box : “An
audience which packed the house from orchestra stalls to
gallery doors were quite content that she should occupy'
a box, and the first appearance of the well-known figure
there was the signal for a clamorous and continued out-
burst of applause.” What could be neater?
Samples of humor from the new Brough co.’s play,
“ Beauty and the Barge ” (1) The subtle (military man
damning freely) : “ William ! such language before the
girls.” “ Oh, I don’t mind, auntie ; this book Pm reading
is by a lady novelist.” (Deadsilence.) (2) The Jacobsy:
“ YVell, lam surprised about ’im. Such a nice quiet chap
he appeared first time I met ’im. I found out afterwards
he ’ad a ’eddick that evenin’.” (Faint smiles.) (3) The
cheap and obvious : “ Why, we had a young lady, same
as it might be you, on board last voyage.” “And had
she a chaperon ? ” “ Chap of her own ? Oh, I expect so.”
(Roars of laughter.)
“E.”: What is the secret of American humor? Fuller
Golden tells his yarns, and they’re not hard to take, and
they have the right Yankee flavor. But what is the
flavor? It may be brevity, or idiomatic speech, or pre-
cise exaggeration, or some triviality given philosophic
dignity ; whatever it is the Yankee jokes better than any-
one else. Sandy is supposed to joke “ wi’ deefeculty ” ;
and Bat inclines to fruity verbosity'. John Bull jokes
solidly, like a mass of roast beef. When Leo Dryden
cracks one you hear the Nasmyth hammer fall on the
beef, and it seems to hurt him more than it does you.
The Cornstalk seems to see the humor of tragedy. That’s
Lawson’s way, and, to an extent, Steele Rudd’s. And he
clothes his woe in a scanty but multi-colored garb of
speech. But we get no Cornstalk humor on the stage,
and we could do with some.
Melbourne Playgoers’ Club, started a year or two ago
by a few theatre-reform enthusiasts, has flickered out.
The Play'goers indulged rather in the study of printed
plays than in theatre-going. Works by such writers as
Ibsen, Maeterlinck, Rostand, Bernard Shaw and Yeats
were read, and the performance of some of them by
members was mooted. Difficulty was experienced in
finding enough books to go round ; the Melbourne book-
seller takes no risks of import ng unsaleable books, and
even those of Ibsen and Maeter.-nck are not easily
procured. Since the Play'goers’ opening lecture, when
Blamire Young irritated some members of his audience
by speaking derisively'of Clement Scott as a critic, the
club failed to flourish. After all, the type of drama
praised by Clement (even if his egotism made him an
“unspeakable Scot”) is what goes down w.th most
persons who take any interest in plays.
There’s a broad hint for Australian lady' vocalists in the
following par from the London Referee “ Songs ah -
childhood, or, to describe the majority accurately, child i
songs, are much in vogue just now, but they are 01. i
productive of moments when one has that most uncom-
fortable sympathetic feeling which may be described as t
mental blush for one’s neighbor’s absurdities. In singh g
these songs it has become quite a tradition to deliver tl j
words with an affectation of childishness, with wide-Opent 1
eyes, raised ey'ebrows, and a general endeavor to depii c,
ignorant innocence, which is very trying to behold, par-
ticularly on the face of an artist whose memories of child-
hood must be more or less remote. Children are mor;
often old than young in their ways, and they are alwa. s
serious. Life to them is a wonderland full of strap :
experiences, sounds, and apparitions. Imagine yours i
in a country where the people are giants of 18ft., wh< j
horses stand 30 hands, and dogs tower over your head, a d
you have the proportion of measurement in the mind of a
child, and the reason why they take all things seriously.
Would that parents took them as seriously. If singe.s
would only be as children in their art we should have less
smiles on the platform, but far more sentiment.”
Whatever others may think, the opinion of the drama: ic
“ star ” is that one’s company.


A GREAT AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY. Views in the Beale Piano Factories at Annandaie.
WSfW
*
■4 !'
.
1
A
\4
4J
i
V
*#&#?**
IN THE lsizALE PIANO FACTORIES: VIEW IN THE IRON SHOPS .
',C
m.
m
E 4
1
■ mmm
. . *
- :
-
-
V
1: >*>•
, ;..,V
Mmm
IN THE BEALE PIANO FACTORIES: THE MILL-MACHINING THE TIMBER.
BEALE AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Showrooms' and Factories, Trafalgar St., Annandale.
And at 474 George Street, Sydney, Opp. Tlarkets ; 207 King Street, Newtown ; 28 Hunter Street, Newcastle ;
George Street, Bathurst; Auburn Street, Goulburn ; 101 Brisbane Street, Launceston; 107 Swanston Street,
Heibourne; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide; His JTajesty’s Theatre, Hay Street, Perth.


A Woman’s Short Story.
She Teles How Mother Seigel’s Syrup Cured
Indigestion, Piles, and Other Ills.
Mrs. Catherine Stevens, whose home is at 6,
Station-street, East Brunswick, Victoria, has
af- n - a £ sufferer from indigestion. Her
affliction was a particularly painful one, owing to
the complications that followed ; the worst, of
which were constipation and piles; severe
bloating, from wind in the stomach and bowels; a
bad taste in the mouth accompanied by sour
scalding bile rising in the throat; with pain’
lassitude, and general weakness.
She sent a letter on January 28, this year, to
the proprietors of Mother Seigel’s remedies
telling her experience, and just how she was
cured. Here it is:—“For eighteen months I
suffered intense agony from indigestion, constipa-
tion, and piles. I took many medicines and
hospital treatment with no benefit. The indiges-
tion created excessive quantities of wind or gas.
I always had a disagreeable taste in the mouth,
and my food soured on my stomach, causing fear-
ful attacks of heartburn. I took large doses of
carbonate-of-soda to relieve this, but it would
often-times be worse than ever within an hour. A
nasty sour, acrid fluid, too, would frequently rise
in my throat, leaving a sharp burning sensation
along its track.
“Eating generally produced pain at the pit of
the stomach and between the shoulders. On
stooping or bending, these pains became so severe
that I was obliged to lie down until they had
passed away. The constipation, which was of long
standing, resulted in the formation of piles, which
caused me great pain and discomfort. After
attending the hospital for months without avail,
a triend, a little over a year back, gave me a small
quantity of Mother Seigel’s Syrup. I took it, and as
it appeared to do me good I bought another bottle
when the other was used up. This had a splendid
effect on me ; my bowels became regular, and the
piles disappeared, as well as the heartburn and
flatulency. A second bottle of the Syrup com-
pleted my cure, and I have had none of the
complaints since. I cannot recommend Mother
Seigel s Syrup too highly,”*
Promoted by Shampoos of
•KSH* i
And light dressings of the
great Skin Cure and sweetest of
emollients. This treatment at once
stops falling hair, removes crusts,
scales, and dandruff, destroys hair
parasites, soothes irritated, itching
surfaces, stimulates the hair follicles,
loosens the scalp skin, supplies the
roots with energy and nourishment,
and makes the hair grow upon a
sweet, wholesome, healthy scalp,
when all else fails,
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout
the world. Depots: London, 17CharterhouseSq.: l aris,s
Ilue de la Paix; Australia, K. 'Towns & Co., Sydney ; Los-
ton, U S. A., Potter Drug & Choni. Corp.,So e Props.
Mailed free, “All About the Skin, Scalp, and Hair.”
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRANK.
DAY
For Blouses,
Nightdresses
Pyj amas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘ Viyella * has
borne the test of years; yon can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
COUGHS
k COL DS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS.
Safe for Children.
TRADEC
MARX
ANISEEP
Of all Chemists & Stores. Be sure
tjt° u oet Powell's toith above
Trade Mark.
WANTED, Samples and Quotations of White
and Colored Earths of all Descriptions;
also Silica and Barytes (Sulphate of Barium).
DAMPNEV PAINT 00.,
BALMAIN, SYDNEY.
The Inky Way.
The Bulletin’s London solicitor has secured from
1 iioto. JliTs- a publication which was guilty of wholesale
tnefts-from The Bulletin's columns—an undertaking not
to f urther oftend ; and on that undertaking proceedings
against P Bits have been withdrawn. This paper, whilst
not objecting to reasonable (and acknowledged) quota-
tion, is determined to stop wholesale piracy of its pic-
tures, stones, verse, and articles by foreign papers.
G. H. Reid told the Ballarat Courier lately that Mel-
bourne Age was, to all intents and purposes, established in
tne front parlor of his father's house. Reid, sen., was a
bcouChbytenan parson ; and just about that time the
A.igus was tramp.ing heavily on the brittle Scotchbv-
terian conscience, and making sparks fly from it. George's
father subsequently had his own trouble with the con-
science, and started one of the “free” churches with
which most lands are dotted.
Died recently in London John Augustus O’Shea, a good
Bohemian and a journalist of the first rank. For a quarter
of a century he represented London Standard as a special
and war correspondent. He was with the Oarlists in
Spain, and in t ans during the siege. These latter ex-
periences he told in a series of brilliant letters to his
journal—he always got his copy through, even if he had
a balloon for the purpose—and in a book en-
titled Ilian Iron-Bound City.” His best-known works
-O L I a u es f, ° m t l le ¥ fe of a Special Correspondent,”
Roundabout Recollections,” aud “Romantic Spain”
and he was a voluminous writer of short stories. Writer
hrst met him in Milan some 20 years ago ; he had gone
there to describe the autumn manoeuvres of the Italian
Arrny. He did not trouble the manoeuvres much,
and took no great stock in the Italian Army
lit he managed to conceal both his ignorance and
Ins contempt in the vivid account he sent to the Stan-
dard. In fact, the Italian army manoeuvred better in the
Standard than it did outside Milan. O’Shea sometimes
took liberties with his paper which would have landed
any other man outside on his ear. On one occasion
writer met bun in Fleet-street, when he was goin<>- to
report a race meeting. A preliminary visit was paid to
the -Mitre. One pressman after another, including the
now-famous T. P. O’Connor, came in, and the races were
not that day graced by O’Shea’s presence. However he
n handed in a two-column report, scissored out
oi tne Echo, and said it would do. An editor who was
too .nil for words tried to say something w'orthy of the
occasion, but failed. J
* * * *
The habit of saying that the policeman had a hard and
desperate struggle before he secured the miscreant grows
on the reporter. Grey River Argus (M.L.) lately reported
tba-t the constable had seen‘two men carrying a sus-
picious-looking sack; chased them, and might have
caught them if he had.had more pace. Later on, it was
found that there had been a burglary. But, though the
law had never got close enough to the burglars to know
who they were, the old “ hard tussle ” figured familiarly
in the head-lines.
* * * *
Miss Fanny Elmes, for three years past woman-reporter
of Melb. Argus, leaves Australia by the Afric to take up a
position on London Morning Leader. Miss Elmes
possesses journalistic instinct, as witness her enterprise
in donning old clothes and putting in a day’s work at a
leading jam factory in order to write up the subject from
the inside. She can write as well as journalise, and has
done some good work for The Bulletin.
* * * 4c
“Scribe”: When a journalistic knockabout, I met Gil-
bert Probyn Smith in sundry places. He was a strict
Wesleyan when he first came to Melbourne from India
Considerations of health brought him to Australia. In
India, there must have been wonderful openings
lor hitii. In London he mig’ht have forestalled
Kipling, so far as regards accumulation of Indian
pabulum. I imagine he knew more India than Kip-
ling does. He would depreciate his astonishing know-
ledge of languages by saying that perfect Hindustanee
carried a man all round, but he seemed to know also
such as Tamil, Gujerati, Madrassee and Telegu. Melb
journalism has been rich in Smiths. There was another
G. P. Smith, the slaughterous Age writer, afterwards
M'Culloch’s Attorney-General. He was succeeded on the
Age by Harry J. Smith, known as the Dunolly baker.
He out-Heroded G. P, in ferocious writing. Then to the
bewilderment of the juniors, he became the Argus chief-
of-staff. The eminent James Smith needs only to be
mentidned. W, Jardine Smith wielded a dashing rapier
on the Argus, as chief leader-writer in the Berry era’
Gervase Smith was, and I believe is, a useful journalist
from London, Another Smith is known as the editor of
the Sporting Judge. Then there have been the two sons
of James Smith, viz., Charles Lamb Smith and Tennyson
Smith. Also rope in two Smythes and a Smyth.
. The junior Bennetts have taken over the Lachlander an
influential N.S.W. outback paper. Walter Bennett, the Dad
found newspaper proprietorship the way to politics the
Moruya Times and Dungog Chronicle leading even to the
Cabinet. The sons profess ambitions in the same direction.
* * » *
Speaking at the complimentary dinner to Frederick
Greenwood, the journalist, who began his career with
his “Amateur Casual” articles, and crowned it by in-
ducing Disraeli to buy the Khedive’s shares in the Suez
Canal (which now bring to Britain a revenue of £l,OOO 000
a year), J. M. Barrie stated he was a non-smoker when he
wrote in praise of tobacco for the Pall Mall Gazette
His chief, Greenwood, induced him to write the papers'
and it was not until he read them in book form, under the
name of “ My Lady Nicotine,” that he was converted to
the use of tobacco by his own arguments.
* * * *
“Croson”: Happened across a quaint specimen of
journalistic enterprise recently in the shape of the
Brunswick (Vic.) Medium. It is a weekly organ, issued at
Id., and contains, in its four pages, six columns of advts
eight columns local news, nine of “ lifted ” literary matter’
and five solid columns every week of this sort of “ per-
sonality,” contributed gratis by friends and admirers •
“ Who is the Carlton girl who goes with Bully, of Preston ?
Surely not Bertha?”—“ Who is the girl of Coburg who did
a mash at the Fitzroy Gardens with the boy who took the
donkey down for his face? Surely not Dorothy G.?”
Some of the “personals” are wildly insulting, and in many
cases'there can be no mistaking- the victims ; but, so far,
the paper hasn’t been sued for libel.
* * * *
The Adelaide ’Tiser reporters have a great admiration
for their employer, Langdon Bonython—an admiration
that is expressed at every opportunity, for the fight for
promotion is exceedingly keen ! If a mothers’ meeting is
to be held, or the foundation-stone of a lost prawns’
home is to be laid, or any other such important function
is on hand, the secretary appointsLangdon chairman, and
is rewarded by having a column report in the paper
instead of an inch or so. Probably three-quarters of the
said column is devoted to what Langdon said. Mr. Bony-
thon recently presided at a small charity meeting, and the
report of the affair ended, “Three cheers were then given
for the King and Mr. Langdon Bonython.” When the
paper reached England, and was delivered at Windsor
Castle, Edward VII. was much affected to find his name
put first. He cabled out that he wasn’t worthy of it, and
that in future the people were to cheer for Bonython first,
and he would get on the best way he could with any ap-
plause that was left over. This cablegram is carefully
preserved among the archives of the State.
* ■* * *
The Bulletin’s first printing press now produces “Dry-
blower” Murphy’s new Perth sporting paper, Sporting
Life. [The Bulletin has no very clear recollection what its
first printing press was like, and can’t recall what became
of it. It publishes the above on the word of a corres-
pondent who is far enough away to know just as little of
the matter as anybody else.]
*."*.**
One Adelaide weekly is run on sound financial lines.
It has a multitude of correspondents who send in very
personal pars, mentioning only the initials of the very
unimportant persons concerned. To secure insertion a
penny per par must be paid. Thus it costs a penny to
tell that “ Sarah Z. was sitting on P.J.X.’s knee under
the railway bridge.” Sarah Z. buys the paper to see if
the secret has been revealed, and that costs her 2d., and
P.J.X. buys the paper to find out whether anyone has
discovered that Sarah Z. sat on his knee, and that costs
him 2d. And not another soul in the country cares 2d.
what P.J.X. and Sarah Z. did, though it is quite willing
to believe the worst about them.
Mi-. George A. Jones, M.LA. (N.S.W.), has bought the
aiok.ee News, and therefore now owns an organ in his
electorate, as do two other Labor members—Hugh Mac-
donald and Gustavus Miller.
• * * *
The British papers are remarking- upon the grievous
falhng-off in the market for black-and-white artistic
work. The Dah/st Graphic is specially instanced as now
depending almost entirely upon the camera, and “would-
be black-and-white immigrants” are warned that the
price of drawings for the London weeklies has fallen till
men now receive only half of what they got eight or ten
years ag'o.
* * * *
Copy of advt. published in a leading Gippsland (Vic )
new-spaper' '
notice to newspaper borrowers.
TN order to obviate the annoyance caused to our
subscribers by borrowers of The Mercury, free
copies may be obtained by those who choose to apply
for them at the office. ‘
* * * *
Pierrot : Have just glanced at the children’s column
of a weekly paper. At the foot of every childish letter is
a comment by kind Auntie Jane (most likely the oldest
male member on the staff), who runs the column. Com-
ment No. 1 tells little Jack to name his new pup “Tobv ”
Comment No. 2 incites little Mary to call her new kitten
VVhisk. Further on Aunt Jane urges little Tommy to
designate the new calf “ Dolly.” This sort of literature
must be a great strain on the pressman’s brain
* * * *
Ernest Favenc : Notice the little, affected mannerisms
in the M.S. of writers. As a rule, it is young writers who
a,feet them —writers who have never really done enou<>h
writing to acquire mannerisms. For instance, some never
dot an i or cross a “t”—a very annoying piece of
affectation. Some never write the word “and,” but use
some mysterious Chinese sign instead. Some never punc-
tate, or do it so carelessly that the marks are scarcely
visible. Some carefully punctuate, but affect to ignore
the use of capital letters. But the affectation of illegible
handwriting is the most common, and does the most to
prevent the proof-reader ever getting anything better
than a back seat in the Heavenly Kingdom. Two of the
worst offenders in this respect that I ever knew were
however, old hands. They both wrote a paw that looked
like a cat-fight, and ever since seeing it I have had an
augmented respect for the compositor. The man who
could find a meaning in these fearsome hieroglyphics
could find the North Pole any morning before breakfast.
Both these amazing persons were well-known Bulletin
contributors. Yet with all his ingenuity there are three
words in our language that always undermine the com-
positor’s intelligence. The first is “ lovely ” ; every com-
positor and reader agree, dead against the context, that
it must be “lonely.” Then there is “doze,” that is
always rendered “dose,” even though you print it, as I
have done before now. Lastly, there is “cheery”; no
man with type in his hand can sleep soundly o’ nights
unless he has made it “cherry.” Beyond this I have
nothing but grateful feelings towards compositors, and
hope to meet the whole tribe in Heaven.
* * * *
What glorious opportunities are open for the
smart man in a country of 80,000,000 people. In the
United States there is probably no.conceivable subject
which wouldn't provide a few shrewd bunco men with a
good living when they had gathered their cranks to-
gether. The other day I saw a mass of literature—leaf-
lets, pamphlets and daily paper, all splendidly printed
and illustrated, and evidently turned out by men who
knew the craft of journalism from end to end—devoted to
the intere ts of a sect whose fundamental belief is that
people live inside, not outside, the world. An excellent
sectional illustration on the cover of one pamphlet showed
the earth as a hollow shell with the usual map on the
concave surface, and the sun, moon and stars hovering
about in the middle. There were, apparently no ventila-
tors provided, and I did not read the work carefully
enough to find out why the air didn’t become vitiated.
According to the paper, the sect already numbers 100,000
adherents, and is going strong.
In answer to much carping criticism of the
Melbourne Board of Works, Chairman Fitzgibbon
stresses one point—and with justice. The State
Railway Department and all State and Common-
wealth offices get their water for nothing. At first
glance this looks a matter of mere book-keeping,
but it isn’t. The consumers in these cases are the
whole people of the State—in the Federal case they
are the people of all Australia ; whereas the Mel-
bourne citizens alone have to pay for the conser-
vation and supply of the water, and the amount
thus filched from them means about Id. or in
the £in their rates. Fitz. suggestively points out
that not one of the country water trusts (though
their works were mostly paid for out of the State’s
money) gives the Railway Department a bucketful
for nothing. They aren’t built that way.
THE MEN WHOM I REPORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some big in front, and some behind,
Some long and thin, some thick and short;
They are of very varied kind,
The men whom I report.
Some month out platitudes by miles,
And some are cynical and plain ;
Some greet me with obsequious smiles,
Some with reproachful pain.
The alderman, with pompous mien,
“ Puts little items in my way ” ;
The bobby whom I should have seen
. Will hunt me for a day.
The politician scorns me quite
When high upon the platform set ;
He waits upon the mat next night,
A paragraph to get.
One wants to buy me with a drink
(An offer far below my dreams),
And one seems modest—but I think
He is not what he seems.
I meet them sometimes off the chain
In spots where they should not resort;
They wink at me as plain as plain—
The men whom 1 report.
And some are sharp, and some are dull,
And some teach Greek, and some keep stores ;
Some have achieved, and some are null—-
And mostly all are bores.
But on them all I keep my eye,
And to them all 1 listen well,
Because I know that by-and-bye
They’ll have some news to tell.
Big fleas, and I’m the little flea !
At times it seems a sorry sport;
But yet they keep my job for me,
The men whom I report.
VIG.
A.
The Girl in
Rational Dress
FOR THE BULLETIN
Art you stdktng a novel s fer \sz>«ti<m
When crushed ’nealh monolbny’;.
Anol lh* world an empty
With boredom alone in ?
Try your hand at an ardent flirtation
W |- Hi a g'lrl in a T\ahonal Dres^
~P, ne y ou fancied before , when she peflicoab wore
Lhstead of Hie Rational Drejy
when you walk where .Hie bea?ch i<,,
Devohon you trj To express,
Jhoie kmckerj, will yoqp fine speeches /.
And Humor will sTauj c ipour* cares^.
/3o poet has, fo Teach us,
T° a Rational Dress)
Just Hunk how 'Twill be when she fiTs on
your knee ,
Andijoure Tangled in
thoughts you may focu<> and ralty,
W>UP Jove hard To confey).•
P> U T the word*) and the feelings wonT Tally,
Andyou ( sfalkino" off rrf diTresy ■.
“Oh , why do I Think of ballet,
/\nd the fhat brin<2‘ huntsmen
When 1 stand at the side of the century s pride
The Cfirl in the "Rational Dresy? v


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
MR. ANDREW MACK,
Supported by HIS OWN COMPLETE COMPANY, in his
Latest Success, the Typical Romantic Irish Play,
THE WAY TO KENMARE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. IrW 1 PRICES AS USUAL.
H EATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Superb Adelphi Melodramatic Novelty,
THE MIDNIGHT MAIL,
Presented by the
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, Headed by the
Talented Australian Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Elvy.’s. POPULAR PRICES-Ss, 2s and Is.
CRITERION
Lessee
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
.. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
LAST 2 NIGHTS, LAST 2 NIGHTS,
FUN ON THE BRISTOL.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as WIDOW O’BRIEN.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 22, for the First Time in
Australia, the Successful London Musical Comedy,
THE EARL AND THE GIRL.
JS* MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Prices, Box Plan and Day Sales as Usual.
pAL ACE THEAT R E, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY NEXT.
THE GREAT THURSTON.
“THAT’S ALL.”
A SURE BOOM AT THAT.
EDWIN GEACH.
QUEEN’S HALL, SYD NE Y.
Sub-Lessee & Manager .. Mr. F. M. CLARK.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
FRANK M. CLARK’S NEW FOLLY CO.
The Brightest and Most Refined Vaudeville Show in
the Commonwealth.
Tremendous Reception of the Unique First Pait,
OUR FOOTBALLERS.
POPULAR PRICES—2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY.
Elite hall, Sydney
(Late Ouong Tart’s Premises, Q.V. Markets).
LINGARD’S
■WOKTIDE: Trt I_. AA. INF TO,
AN IDEAL PALACE OF AMUSEMENT,
and A MARVELLOUS EXHIBITION,
in Conjunction with the
ROYAL CORONATION WAXWORKS,
From England and America.
6 COMPLETE SHOWS IN ONE. 6
OPEN DAILY FROM MORNING TILL EVENING.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney,
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Magnificent Reception of THE GOTHAM TRIO,
Quaint American Singing Comedians.
Emphatic Success of MR. LEO. DRYDEN.
MR. FRANK LEON.
LAST WEEK of MR. FRED. W. MILLIS.
Great Success of Master BOBBIE WYLDMAN and Miss
CLARICE DUBLEiCH. Also, Mr. IRVING SAYLES.
HARRY ROCS-IFORT, HARRY HART, FRANK YORKE.
MDLLE. ALICE GUERRA, Miss MAUD BEATTY.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
GEO. FULLER GOLDEN, Society Entertainer.
CHAS. DIAMOND. MISS BEATRICE, Expert Musicians.
THE LAZAR AS, Acrobatic Artists.
JAMES HARVEY, Comedian and Dancer.
NAT TRAVERS, Coster Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE FLOOD TIDE.
SAT. NEXT, JULY 22, BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Exciting Melodramatic Spectacle,
WOMAN AND WINE.
m- PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
C. SIMONSENS, Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. • • Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
Sub-Lessees & Managers .. Messrs. Brough & Flemming.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of BEAUTY AND THE BARGE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 22,
THE BROUCH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY in
THE WALLS OF JERICHO.
jpg- BOX PLAN at Glen’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 p.m.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of INGOMAR.
SATURDAY NEXT, JWftY 22,
]VExs s KTanco O’’ JNT &i. 1*
in
TRILBY.
MISS NANCE O’NEIL as TRILBY.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES,
WEDNESDAYS.
gUOU tkieatre, melb our n e.
JULY 20, 21, and 22,
“ THE PLAYERS,”
Under the Direction of Mr. Gregan McMahon.
the french maid.
Box Plan at Allan’s. 'Wk
Devon Consols South Extended, Kalgoorlie,
which holds two leases at north end of Kalgoorlie belt,
shown on old maps as Euclid and Rising- Sun, has been
floated in Adelaide. New co. has a capital of 200,000
shares of ss. each. Vendors receive 120,000 paid up, and
promoters 30,000. Remaining 50,000 are underwritten
and are to be offered to public, with 4s. to be called up.
This means £lO,OOO, of which vendors get half, and other
half remains for working capital. Balance of £1 per
share, or £B5OO, is to be held in reserve for future issue.
During the last year or so this property, from above 80ft.,
has turned out several thousand tons, averaging fully an
ounce. Recently lode has been broken out 17ft. wide,
and even then gave an average of 14dwt. In a winze
below Soft., on junction of sulphide and oxidised zones, a
telluride vein has recently been cut assaying 30oz. for a
width of 18in. Lode runs north and south with a westerly
underlay, and the proved gold shoot is about 300 ft. long.
Mine is a legitimate venture, but whether the large capi-
talisation and small cash working capital are legitimate
are for public to judge. A test parcel of the rich sulpho-
telluride is to be sent to Fremantle smelter, and will
give a high return. Of course, if this class of ore con-
tinues, the venture is beyond cavil. In any case, as a
spec., co. is a long way ahead of shypoo stocks hitherto
dumped by Adelaide market manipulators on unwary
investors.
* * * *
Cumberland, Norseman (W.A.), manages to
maintain its high average, June return being 6960 z. from
531 tons. Burkett, before resigning in favor of O. L.
Fernald, gave ore reserves as 10,000 tons, worth loz. per
ton. Costs have always worked out very high, and,
unless Fernald can materially reduce them and maintain
developments, outlook is not very hopeful. Mine may
continue for some time earning divs., but scrip can never
be regarded as an investment on present basis of working.
* • * *
Golden Zone (W.A.), which has been in the bag
for a long time, has acquired an option on Maori Chief,
Menzies. Manager Hancock is much elated over the deal,
and no doubt scrip will come on the market again.
Maori Chief, like all Menzies shows, is patchy, rich in
places, and the right kind of mine for speculators to deal
in. Probably most of shares have been forfeited long
ago, but a market is sure to be made, and anyone in
search of a gamble will be accommodated.
* * » *
Bellevue, Mount Sir Samuel (W.A.), seems to
be almost on its last legs, judging from poor returns.
Fully six months ago chairman Hoffmann told share-
holders that chlorination plant was about starting to
treat accumulated tailings, which would yield profits of
£lOO,OOO. Bulletin then said the plant would never do
any good ; and it never will. Tailings are assayed to
contain sd'wt. to 6dwt. gold and 2 p.c. copper, and latter
knocks things endways. Years ago, VV. J. Koehler, from
Broken Hill, erected a plant to treat these tailings, but it
failed. When co. was reconstructed, 3£ years ago,
230,000 shares were issued to secure a new 40-head mill
and accessories, and for about 200 acres of sand-patch,
described as deep levels. New mill has now been running
12 months, and all the rosy predictions have been belied.
During last three months co. has lost £6OOO, exclusive of
depreciation and London exes.
* * * *
Some recent Westralian fancy yields. Hidden
Secret, Kalgoorlie, has smelted 8 tons for 1530 z. gold and
23400 z. silver. This brings its total to date to 483 tons
for 79860 z. gold and 37,3220 z. silver. Rich ore is still
showing iii a rise above 200 ft. level and a winze from same
level. Idaho, on south end of Kalgoorlie belt, has treated
60 tons for 3600 z. ; total, since .December, 368 tons for
14460 z. There is still rich ore in this mine, and, while it
lasts, there will be little legitimate mining. Battlers, who
have suffered semi-starvation for years, once they get on
gold follow it ; and one can hardly blame them.
* * * *
Of the 690,000 shares in the newest Chillagoe.
reconstruction, only 355,914 were applied for by the old
holders, leaving 334,056 to be nursed by the underwriters.
The prospects of a market for Chillagoes are, therefore,
about nil, and this should be the ending of one of the
most ghastly tragedies in Australian “ mining.”
* * * ♦
For June Charters Towers (Q.) mills crushed
20,205 tons for 14,7250 z., worth £50,121. Cyanide treated
17,857 tons for 85780 z., valued at £15,608. Smelters and
other returns bring*the total value to £83,656, or a hand-
some £4 2s. per ton crushed. Twenty-three eo.’s and cats
made calls totalling-£8956, including Vesuvius’ll6th of
3d. ;an increase of £4458 compared with May'. Dividends
for June were £ll,lO0 —St. George, 145th of 6d. ; Br.lliant
Central, 64th of 6d. ; Queen Cross, 53rd of 6d. This is
£15,960 less than in May. Totals for half-year : Calls,
£49,852 ; dividends, £105,945. Three Ravenswood callers
and Kalamadu divs. are not included.
« * * •
Block and Wyndham leads in Charters Towers
month’s tonnage, 2876 tons for 21140 z. As it takes £12,460
to pay a div. of 6d., the Block is seldom heard from.
Brilliant Extended put through 2700 tons for 9640 z.
Of this, 200 tons treated separately gave only
lOoz. In May the co. crushed 174 tons from the
same level (No. 7) f<jr soz. Stone was from development
work. Brilliant Central turned out 2410 tons for 14340 z.
Output compared with May has decreased 1000 tons, while
returns arte only 400 oz. less. Mine is pulling itself together
remarkably well. By keeping quartz clean, tonnage could
be further reduced without materially affecting returns.
Something has gone wrong with the Phoebe. Co. had to
turn out 1124 tons to get 878 oz. Concentrates and resi-
dues brought the value to £4547. A serious drop from
previous crushing—Bos tons for llOOoz. Market is flat for
this stock, although co. is in a position to pay divs. nearly
equal to present value of mine. New Queen, a Bull-run
show, 301 tons for 3390 z. Mine has a battery of its own
two miles away, but no stone to keep it going. Lease is
between the B. Central and Q. Cross.
* * * *
Queen Cross, where Bull was crucified at Char-
ters Towers, is having a bad time. For past month 2195
tons were crushed for 2103 oz.—worth,—worth, with concentrates
and residues, £8629. May returns (six weeks) were 3095
tons for 42730 z. ; total value, £18,893. Dividends have
been reduced to 6d. June returns won’t pay that, as it
takes £bo9o to pay 6d. ; this would only leave £3629, or,
roughly, 355. a ton, to cover costs. No mine on the
Towers can turn out stone and crush for that. Dividends
should see a further reduction shortly, as development,
which is really prospecting work, has only just started on
two formations, the Victoria and Victory. These forma-
tions wereHeglected, while the rich patch was worked for
all it was worth. A three-inch leader of white stone and
the stulls make up the Cross’ immediate hope.
t * * *
Wallis’, Charters Towers, is saving up for a 300
tons crushing ; 200 are now on top, and the pile is being
built up at the rate <s( 25 tons a week. Report says that 18
inches of good stpne is going under the old workings. If
so, it will be a good thing, as stone from Wallis’ for the
last six months averaged £7 10s. a ton. Strange thing
about this show is that, as the paddock increases in
tonnage, the market value decreases. Co. should be
above call-making, as six weeks ago there was £lOOO in
hand. Mine is but a small, pokey hole, though, with no
large chances.
* * *
Band of Hope, one of the Towers has-beens,
is prospecting a formation at 1429 ft. So far the reef is
small and broken, 6in. on the footwall and 14in. midway,
in a formation 30ft. wide in places. Co., while on stone
at 982 ft., never paid .any attention to the deep ground.
Everything was left until the old workings could only
turn out 374 tons for the half-year, valued at £3 9s. a ton.
The new formation produced 475 tons, worth £2 18s. a
ton. Total for.s'ix months, 850 tons for £2479. Tributors
collected 435 tons, paying in royalty £246, or 11s. 3d. a
ton.
* r * * *
Carrington’s P. 0., near Charters Towers, seems
to be a mixture of copper, galena, gold, and dead silence.
Show is reported to be looking well, and is to be worked
on advanced lines—for the Towers. An assay plane is
almost complete ! Tests from a lode at about 55ft. give
10 to 14 per cent, copper. Not a word, though, about
gold. A winding plant has been erected, and the erection
of a mill on the site depends upon the water shaft getting
a supply, which seems probable. 00. is still prospecting
with a pilot shaft. Main shaft is down 126 ft., and 140
tons of ore are on top.
« • ■* *
Telegraphed that T. Bennion has struck quartz,
prospecting 30z., in sinking for the Lady Mary reef, Croy-
don (N.Q.). Development promises to be important for
the whole field. At 152 ft., where quartz was tapped,
there was a heavy flow of water, and it is reported that
the Iguana reef is underfoot. Importance of development
attaches to locating the reefs on the east side of the
intrusive granite. Popularly supposed that the old Iguana
reef, Highland Marv reef, and Lady Mary reef were one,
and that present Golden Gate is a continuation of same.
Iguana and Highland Mary, in years gone by, turned out
much gold, former 84,9220 z. from 38,51 S tons, and this
with poor appliances and equally poor methods. Both,
however, lost the gold-bearing stone when an intrusion of
granite came in dipping westerly, and against the
underlie of reef. Right along the line, the lode was cut
out at anything from 300 to 500 feet, and, except in case
of Bennion—who has now tackled the Lady Mary—reefs
were given up as lost. In view of present development,
it is interesting now to recall what Rands, ex-Govt.
Geologist, said a few years ago when shafts were sunk and
bores put down in 'an unsuccessful effort to locate
the reefs on east side of intrusion. Rands said
“ The reef should have been struck in these bore-
holes at somewhere about 200 ft. in deptli bad it continued
on its regular grade. They were all sunk in the hard, in-
trusive granite, and were put down too close to the line
on which the reef was lost. Had they been put down in
the metamorphic granite, further north-east, the High-
land Mary reef would most probably have been dis-
covered.” Rands looks like coming out on top.
• * * *
Ravenswood (N.Q.)is, on the whole, a poorly-
equipped field. Bar New Ravenswood, Ltd., and Ravens-
wood Deep Mines, there’s not a decent mill on the place.
Ravenswood Deep Mines cannot turn out at present
sufficient stuff to keep its plant going, so it is fitting up
same for public crushing. About time some of the
smaller co’s. amalgamated. At present too little money
is spread over too wide an area. Result —very little suc-
cessful mining, and no milling worth the name.
London, Ravenswood (N.Q.), has had a good
crushing ; 346 tons has yielded over £3060, and in the
space of a few weeks the London reckons it has changed
from an impecunious dwarf to an affluent giant. All
on three thousand pounds. Directors have fallen
over themselves in their feverish haste to pay a
div. : 60,000 sixpences will absorb £l5OO on August
Ist ; remaining £l5OO goes to reserve. The idea of
the London talking of a reserve is humorous, for
it has practically no capital. Mine will doubtless
continue to be a “ oue-crushing show ” until it is hit by
two bad consecutive crushings, and then probabilities are
the co. will snuff out. Just like many another Queens-
land show, it won’t see that by a reasonable expenditure
on development the mine might (in this case almost cer-
tainly would) become an industrial concern of long con-
tinuance. In Queensland mining there are three opera-
tions, and three only. They are : (1) Get out some ore ;
(2) get out a crushing; (3) get drunk. Just at present
the London is at the pub.
» * * *
Smith’s Creek (Q.) reports : —“Assays taken in
presence of director, 5 per cent, tin oxide.” Sounds con-
vincing. But why does not the co. give tonnage treated
per week, and value of concentrates produced '! The fact
that 4 p;c. or 5 p.c. of tin oxide is being obtained in a
crosscut 28ft. wide, if the sampling and assays are done
properly, means greater permanency and value for Smith’s
Creek than were indicated in Warren’s report. Two units
of tin, when recovered as a concentrate worth 70 per
cent., should, at present prices (265. per unit), be profit-
able. Mt. Bischoff recovers under 1£ P er cent, tin on an
average.
* * » »
“Poorly” is the term that the Long Tunnel
(Vic.) autocrats employ when telling how the stone now
going through the battery is doing. It about describes
the sentiments of shareholders in respect to how the board
is doing. Though low-grade stone was going through,
yet no inkling of it could be got till the market told its
little tale. Why not give the amalgam returns weekly,
and let all shareholders know where they are ? There is
no sense in locking up news in a leaky box.
* * * *
C. E. Nicholas, late of the Lyell Blocks, has
been interesting himself in reviving a mine at East
Metcalfe (Vic.), about the past of which some glittering
stories have gained circulation. Out of a north and
south shaft old workers got, according to such yarns,
rich stone; when, taking a rest as diggers do (still
according to the yarns), the water rose, and they never
again got below to the patch. It has taken 40 years for
anyone to enthuse over this “ has been,” but Nicholas is
awakening the Rip Van Winkles of the place. Lyell
Blocks must have knocked all the poetry out of him, or he
could never have encouraged such a title for the co. as
Eliza Hill. There is something homely about that ;
and if ’Liza turns up a trump, what’s in a name ?
In the midst of the tin-boom, Melbourne was
startled by a yard of wheeze about a show called the Star
of Maldon. First of all, it isn’t at Maldon, but poses as a
“virgin show” at Sandy Greek, which district, of late
years, has not borne a reputation that should tit it for
close association with anything so .young and unsophisti-
cated as this pleasant little Star of Maldon. There
never was a mine worth the name in the neighborhood,
and if people are going to put up cash to buy shares in so
unproved a venture m such a locality they deserve all
they may get. Two bits of shafts, the deepest about 30ft.,
and some trenching, constitute the work done. On this
a 32,000 share co. has been floated. Yet it is said that
the Stock, Exchange is dull, and that times are hard in
Melbourne.
* * * *
That deal over the Briseis Extended (Tas.)
shares isn’t too clear, save that it proves that the market
move which carried shares to above £44 rested more on
finesse than on mine results. One fact stands out: that
is, that the board has fixed a valuation on the scrip of the
co. at £35. How the deal could work for the London
firm is easy to see. Firm got 10J shares at £35 prompt;
option for three weeks on a second 10J at the same
figure ; and a month’s option on a third 100 at £4O. Prices
went to £44 2s. 6d. after the option was given. If the
firm sold, as wise men should have done, its first 100
shares when rates were up, it probably netted £4 a share.
But there is no need for the firm to take up the second
100 under three weeks. Hence the firm could have the
market at its command for that term. If rates kept up
the option could be exercised and delivery made ; if they
dropped, the best plan would be to stand out. Profits
must come either way to people who could put 2 and 2
together, and it would be nice if one could only lift the
veil to see if the London firm looked at it in that light.
* * * *
Taranaki (M.L.) lately went off its head over
its petroleum bore, which local people have been carrying-
on since the mostly-Adelaide crowd gave it best. At
2100 ft. oil was “ struck.” Half Taranaki rushed off to see
the stream of mud, water, and oil; £5 shares ran up to
£lO with one mighty leap ; then slowly to £l5 ; butchers’,
bakers’, and grocers’ bills piled up—all cash went in
“oil shares.” But the knowing hands were selling out,
and shares dropped steadily : they are now quoted at £7
sellers, no buyers ; and it isn’t safe to mention oil in Tara-
naki.
* * * •
More of the anti-Socialists’ Socialism. South
Australian Government (the one of which John
Darling approves) lately bought two boring plants.
“ Geology” Brown is looking for likely places to use one
of them in the N. Territory ; inspector of mines Mathews
ditto around Arltunga, in the Far North.
* * * •
“ C.L.” : Most people who have nothing to do
with mining in the West, think it is a good game, with
good pay and only eight hours to work each day. But
they do not know anything about the dull side of the
business. In the mills we have to work seven days a
week, holidays included ; but the men looking for work
consider we are very lucky to be working at all. And so
we are. We realise that, when we see the crowd of strong
men seeking to get a shift in now and again to try and
keep the home together. Morning, afternoon, and night
there are always about two score waiting eager to get a
shift in if we happen to be a man short, through over-sleep-
ing or accident. You will see the same faces day after
day, sometimes for weeks, turning up regularly every eight
hours. Sometimes we put some poor beggar on for the
shift just out of charity. But we do not make a practice
of this. Then sometimes we happen to want a man, but
the foreman will not go out to engage him. He says he
has not the heart, but he will send out a man to get one
on the quiet. Just to show you how eager they are to
get work. Last Saturday,we put a man on day shift; he
knocked off at 4 p.m., and at 12 the same night, when it
was raining like blazes, he put in an appearance again,
and stood outside, wet to the skin, to see if he could get
another shift in. As he was the only one that turned up,
the boss put him on keeping the gutters clean to fill in
time. And he deserved it.
# * * *
John T. : Past half-year’s balance-sheet should
be up for dissection in about a fortnight.... R. Fraser:
Bad enough to leave alone Abdul: Correct.
“ Delegates to the recent inter-State Label
Conference didn’t bring their wives with them to
any notable extent, and their social entertainment
was mostly of the manly type. Solicitor .Joe Woolr
—who solicits for Melbourne Trades Hall and the
Labor bodies generally, and who has the repute of
being able to see rather farther through a brick wall
than most —entertained the delegates at a banquet,
and the Federal and State Labor parties also fed
the delegates in public. There was one solitary
lady delegate, who helped to represent Tasmania,
and never shirked a debate or a dinner, and could
talk well even in a smolce-liazed room.
“A returned globe-trotter who witnessed Ada
Crossley’s marriage, describes Ada as towering in
most regal clothes above a modest groom, who
struck the eye as the most timid that had ever
tackled the Voice that Breathed. Ada, in a word,
looked like Queen Elizabeth led to the altar by a
modest subaltern on half-pay.
“ Toorak found Julius Knight better in health
and spirits than it expected. He hasn’t lost a
scrap of his Superbus in hospital. That raises
a dreadful doubt as to whether those beautiful
limbs are the sort that waste under typhoid.
Or are they the sort that the moth consumes?
“Society has suffered the loss of another very
bright, popular identity by death. Mrs. Sam
McCulloch had been ill for months, but her con-
stitution was such that husband and relatives
hoped it would triumph. But the dominant
soul died last Monday.
“Motley’s the wear. The Scandinavians of
Melbourne propose to hold another domino hop
in September, the funds to go to the Melbourne
Hospital fund. Last year, the Scandinavians
gave an object-lesson in the art of how to be
frivolous without being foolish.
“Nance O’Neil bares her roes in the Greek
show, and the Melb. audience endeavors fran-
tically to focus the sandalled members. But only
two or three begrudging times are the draperies so
drawn that a gleam of pink toes flash on the sight,
and this always happens when the glasses are
lying idle. The neatest and prettiest foot this
scribe lias seen bared on the Melb. boards belongs
to the other Yank, Tittell Brune. In ‘ Camille ’ a
neat limb, not even stockinged, was lowered from
the big bed, and for a thrillful while audiences
fastened their glowing regard on the pretty,
nicely-moulded foot.
“ Certain big private hospitals have trouble over
the guest-lists of convalescents. The trouble is in
the confusion of gentlemen relatives. A sick girl
has her brothers, her cousins, her uncles and her
father all on her list. Other side patients gossip
and point out that the number of relatives, their
ages and their sizes are out of all reason and pro-
portion, and that really some supervision should
be exercised. Henceforth, at one place the frivo-
lous convalescent is only to be allowed one brother,
one father, and in extreme cases (where proof of
bona tides is forthcoming), one male cousin.
“The Cumloden Old Bovs annually break out
into hospitality, always in the form of a jolly, but
quite particular hop. This tune, they propose to
give the girls a treat in sweet September, at the
St. Kilda Town Hall. The Toorak girl loves the
Cumloden Old Boy, and generally buys fresh
chiffons wherewith to enchant, if she can’t enchain,
him.
“ A warbler has been telling me that the joy of
singing at State Government House is a mixed
one. The fee paid doeSn t cover the expenses.
There’s the cleaning and- pressing of the swallow-
tail togs, new gloves, and a frfesh tie. Then there
is cab-hire for the night. ‘lt costs more anxiety
and time and trouble than the fee is worth,’
wound up the singer.
“The smart woman carries about an eyebrow
pencil as well as her carmine lip-stick. This
because of high winds that, blowing fiercely on
Beauty’s brow, carry off temporary eyebrows and
cast them into the Yarra. The awkwardness of
hurried application cause-home to a she-contingent
the other day, when, after taking tea in a big cafe,
one of the number surreptitiously applied a stick
to her lips, and it was the wrong stick, or rather
pencil. When the other girls looked her way,
they stared hard, till; one, seizing on the facts of
the position, told her cruelly her eyebrows had
slipped down and she.was in danger of swallowing
them. Whereat her other kind friends giggled
themselves into fits.
“A nurse who says she is strongly in favor of a
white Commonwealth, reluctantly yields the hos-
pital cake to John Chinaman. He is, she main-
tains, the cleanest, most respectful, least trouble-
some’patient taken into the charitable institutions.
She shuddered and squirmed when her first China-
man was submitted ’.to..her .care. At last she
girded up her nerves and faced the job. It was
the easiest and most satisfactory case she had
tackled. He wore silk pyjamas ! That evidently
took the girl. Silk pyjamas ! She said it softly.
So woman is converted to the saffron race. There
are numbers of the sex who would be won over to
a cannibal if he only took a small size in tooth-
picks.
“ A widow, who had been led to trimming her
lamps anew, as it were, in rosy hopes of a
Melbourne desirable coming to a proposal, has
suffered a violent shock. Ihe brute became
engaged to a sweet girl under her very nose. The
blow'was such that the little widow took to her
bed for a week to cry her temper out. It is a new
idea to chain the temper up to the bedpost, and
on the whole a good one; tantrums are best
indulged in private.”
“ Dress is becoming a dear luxury. The Collins-
street makers now demand 21 yards of material to
clothe you d la mode. They will not stake their
names on less. The voluminous skirt that rolls
over the hips and flows out into the spreading
tail takes most of that expensive length. A scrap
of lace and a whalebone or two are found sufficient
to cover the upper slope. There is sure to be a
revolt against the 21 yards. Why, woman used
to be covered stylishly for a matter of merely nine !
There are some venerables extant now who still
have a mere nine-yard length of satin smoothed
over their frames, and look well covered at that.
“ A motor-man was lately landed' into difficul-
ties at a house he was visiting in an Outer Circle
suburb. A child fell ill or fell down, and in great
perturbation the parents appealed to the visitor.
He recommended that the oldest daughter in the
house might have a spin with him to the doctor s
(some seven miles distant), and either get direc-
tions for treating : the child or bring the
man of physic back. It was agreed, and
they started before dinner, the dusk just gather-
ing. But, alas, little Willie suffered his pain for
many dreary hours. The parents fumed and
fretted, and the brothers and sisters were out on the
roadside looking for signs of a lost, stolen, or
bolted motor-car. At 2 o’clock in the morn the
machine, or part of it, was towed into the grounds
by a doctor’s buggy with bandaged patients
aboard.
Yours A£fectionately (
AKKENEHI.
When Influenza stalks the land,
La Grippe or bronchial trouble ;
Or croupy coughs are going round
Our misery to double.
Would you, from every cough and cold,
Keep you and yours secure ?
There’s one, and only one advice —
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
W. N. Willis has been discharged from
custody by the Westralian Supreme Court on the
case sworn against him by John Haynes,
of Sydney, so he will not be extradited to
Sydney on that accusation. A fresh charge
has been, however, sworn against him, and
he was re-arrested as soon as released. Proba-
bly the second charge comes from the same
accuser, but that was not stated at time of
writing. The prospects of Mr. Willis’sea-trip da
not look too good; there seems a possibility of his
being detained in Australia until the Carruthers
Government is goaded into giving the Lands
Commission power to compel the attendance of
him and other witnesses. Meanwhile, some good
Cornstalk money is gladdening Westralian
lawyers.


Innocent notice, espied in the window of
an Adelaide house, “ Bawd and Residence.”
If the duty on coffee is raised by Id. per
lb., it is said the industry will thrive in N. Queens-
land, and, with adequate tariff protection, rice
could also be grown there successfully.
“ M.R.T.” : Consider the Morman inva-
sion of Seddon’s country:
The Maori when under Selwyn and Archdeacon Henry
Williams, was the most orthodox of Anglicans. Then
came the Maori war, when the pious natives chewed up
their Testaments to make wads for the muzzle-loaders ;
and since then they have only been church-going:
Christians when there seemed to be money or blankets in
it. The average Christian creed is pre-eminently the
creed of respectability ; and the average Maori does not
understand what that means. So he is going over by
the thousand to the Mormon Church. There are now
some 200 Mormon “ elders ” in Maoriland, and they are
doing excellent biz. They forswear liquor, yet tolerate
harems. Joseph Smith founded his religion on the wig-
wam life of the American continent, and that is just the
sort of thing that suits these natives.
Then this’Murkan missionary knows his business. He
comes to the Maori in his pa and lives with him in his
whare. He is not as the priests and the missionaries are,
a thing apart. He advises on things social, on things
sanitary, on matters agricultural and pastoral. To all of
these, as a practical man, he brings practical knowledge.
And it must be owned up at once that the Mormon mis-
sionary has made the Maori a much more decent person.
He is no longer a w'’ne-bibber or a gambler, and he takes
some pride in his surroundings. The elder is always
setting before his imagination the delights and beauties
of the City of Saints in great and glorious Utah. And the
learner tries to live up to the picture.
The Mormon elders are, moreover, accompanied by their
women, who supplement the work of their fellow har-
vesters in the mission field by aid of a most practical
sort. They teach cooking, nursing, everything that has
to do with the life of a woman ; and they have benefited
the Maori home as no other creed has done.
So the British priest and parson ride by and wonder at
the decline of the faith and the falling off in subscrip-
tions ; and while they wonder, through back Taranaki,
through the Upper Rangitikei, in Southern Wairoa, the
spirit of J. Smith is spreading. It has done good in a
physical sense, but grave evils are developing. The Maori
was never quite averse to polygamy, and some of the hot
young spirits, and many of the older bloods, are adding
to the cares of their households. The elders scold and.
argue ; but, says the logician of the pa, if we are torn by
the thorns of our creed, may we not pluck the blooms !
Another rock ahead is the practice of faith-healing.
The elders have got their cue from the old Maori
tohunga, and already have cunningly taken over his
duties, and in some places have entirely supplanted him ;
and when, to the powers of persuasion, they will be able
to add those of magic, and the power of life and death, it
will be a very brave or a very well-educated Maori
kainga that will block their progress.
cf*SE7^
qqVJCHS COLD'S
V.I,
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical- In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment
NflT RPINfi it will not burn or blister the.
MW I DEINU skin-There is nothing to
A RFI T wear round the body to
" 1 fosteF germs-It is sure,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
£1 of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
SSJIStTC for my new book ( illustrated) “Mens
W 181 I E Sana in Corpore Sana.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and wha*- you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M K S
129 c °LUNS ST, MELBOURNE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. Por Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Seourlty of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
!■ Hill ti'lllllll IHI I <*». r? • V ■■p«TF».wnniw»'--.-w-> ■-■••■•
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Covernment
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a oondition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up tb 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice 6r payment of any fine.
Directors—Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman j Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator the Hon. J. T. W alker ; James Burns, Esq.; The Hon- It- J. Black, M.L.0.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq.,
M.L.A. General Manager and Actuary—Richard Teecb, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. .
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEYS’. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary,
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURES EXHIBITION.
Conducted by the A.N.A., with the co-operation of the Chamber of Manufactures,
To Popularise and Encourage the Use and Sale of AUSTRALIAN <*
MADE GOODS and PRODUCTS »
AGRICULTURAL GROUNDS, Moore Park,
To be opened in DECEMBER, 1905.
For particulars of Sfrace, &'c., ripply to Thk t»RjjAitisiNO
Secretary, 134 Pitt-sti-c’et, Sydney. Tel. H 99.
Intending Exhibitors fehOlil'd knrike early application.
DINNEFORDS
*■s#< w -i; ,>•
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel. ,
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine far
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness nf Pieghahejr.
yjjpwn
DINNEFOR
S
GNESI
G. STRATMANN’S *
. FINE....
Made on the
- Premises
CHOCOLATES «*
SWEETHEATS
/24 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Boom.
DEAFNESS CURED,
THE AUROPHONE,
the latest and most
Scientific Discovery for
the BELIEF and CUBE of DEAFNESS and HEAD
NOISES. Descriptive Pamphlet sent Free. Address:
THE AUBOPHONE CO.,
14 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
MR. P. GATES.
Before Treatment.
REASONS WHY WE ADDRESS YOU.
1. —Because our practice extends throughout
Australasia.
2. Because we treat and cure more men of their
troubles than any other firm of Medical
Specialists practising.
3. —Because we are experts in the treatment of
one class of Diseases only, those known as
Genito-Urinary Diseases.
4. Because our works upon these diseases are
quoted as Medical authorities.
6.—Because we can refer you to any Banking
Institution in Sydney for public reference as
to our bona-fides, honesty in practice and
professional abilities.
6. Because we know the Diseases of Men like a
boy knows his alphabet or the pages of an
open book.
7. Because it is such knowledge, based upon
actual experience in the fields of disease, that
has assured for us our world-wide reputation
and unfailing success.
8. Because we have four experienced and Pro-
fessional Specialists, Qualified by Australasian
Medical Boards, at our Institutes, thus giving
patients the benefit of combined Medical
opinion.
9. Because our books are always instructive and
enlightening, and are the medium of much
genuine instruction to all who possess them.
Here are Nine Good Reasons why we address
you, through the medium of this advertisement.
To all sensible men who value their interest and
health, our arguments appeal, for men should
always be cognisant of their personal welfare.
CURED ■• CURED
It is not exceptional for a firm to have a motto, an embodiment of the principles
of his commercial concern to which the motto is akin. The Specialists of
The FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
Sydney, have for their motto “WE CURE TO STAY CURED.” And this fact is proven
by the countless cures made by them throughout Australasia, or wherever the
operations of their Institutes are known.
Here we publish the photographs of Mr. P. GATES, of West Australia, as he
appeared before and after our treatment. The difference is apparent. He is im-
proving rapidly, regaining his nerve and vital power, which had been partially lost.
He is only one of thousands whom we have cured. He will be as they have been, a
living advertisement tor us in proof of our skill, ability and reliability in Medical
methods.
READER ! ! We do not know what your ailment is, but we feel sure, if it is any form of disease arising from
certain specific causes, we can cure you. We are Experts in the class of diseases known as the Genito-Urinary.
These we have studied until there is no more to learn of them. We know them as the boy knows his alphabet. If
you are afflicted, write to our Physician-in-Chief, Dr. Wallace, who is registered by Australian, American and
English Medical Boards. You can consult him Free.
PROOFS THAT DO NOT LIE.
We are treating thousands o£ cures annually, and is it not reasonable to suppose
that we understand such cases better than those who are treating only a few hundred ?
Practice makes perfect in any line, and it is none the less true in the treatment of
disease. You get the benefit of Experience when you place your case in our hands.
Do not despair. Order your treatment at once, and let us add your name to our long
list of cures.
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind that our treatment will not cure you, it
is a duty you owe to yourself to write to some of the references we publish, and send
an addressed envelope for reply. Ask any of the attestants who have given testi-
monies to us if they think we can benefit you. We court the closest investigation.
Our Parcel Post System is a blessing to all sick men living in centres far from medical
men and aid. Thousands of men would now be in their graves had we not reached and
treated them by our effective Parcel Post System.
DO NOT BE MISLED.
Medical Statistics prove that 50 per cent, of the men of Australia suffer from some form or
other of Vital Weakness. Our rapid and effective cures are triumphs of scientific practice.
There are various forms of drastic remedies proposed and prescribed by the Medical Faculty
to cure this trouble, which often ruins the stomach, adding the misery such injury entails.
Correct treatment is absolutely necessary, because it is a form of ailment that undermines
gradually the entire constitution. All Vital organs suffer materially through this weakness.
The Specialists of our Institute have remedies that in 90 per cent, of cases effect complete cures
by progressive methods which thoroughly re-st.rengthen and re-invigorate the whole system.
They have discovered that Vital weakness and similar troubles allied to it may be cured in a
remarkably short space of time, provided the patient is a tractable one. Their treatment, which
is proved by innumerable written testimonials, is scientific, and from all sides we hear private
reports of cures in stubborn cases. By the aid of our Electro-Medical methods, cures may be
effected in from One to Three months regardless of age or the cause of the condition.
* * * * * • * * *
A GOOD BOOK. It tells Weak Man how to get strong. It explains the Early Decay of Manhood’s
Strength, and how Perfect Vigor is restored. It tells how we have cured thousands of weak men in Australia
during the past twenty-five years. To any man who suffers from an early breaking down of the Vital Powers, it
is invaluable. “Clinical Experiences,” 31 chapters, is the Book for Sick Men. It is commended by
hundreds of Australian newspapers. IT COSTS YOU NOTHING. Send for it to-day.
THE FREEMAN and WALLACE
Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts . Sydney,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute ; AND AT MELBOURNE.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D.. Physician-in-Chief; Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Dept, of Women.
MR. P. GATES.
After Treatment.
NOT A MOMENT TO LOSE.
If you are ill and suffering- from any dread
malady, which threatens to cut the feeble span
of life and bring you face to face with Death
before half your life is run, it is not your policy
to delay or despair. Brooding won’t help you.
Despair may kill you. Be up and doing. While
you live you have a chance.
There are doctors and doctors, but you may
not have met the man who understands your ail-
ment sufficiently to cure you. Perhaps you have
tried your doctor on recommendation, and he has
failed. Have you heard of the Specialists of THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE Medical Institute and the
Staff of Physicians and Surgeons who operate and
specialise, and may be consulted Free by any
suffering man at the Institutes, Sydney and Mel-
bourne? If not, inquire about them and their
great skill and practice. We court the closest
investigation.
If ill, you are as much in danger as the man
who falls from a precipice. Don’t hesitate, or
you may be lost. Our Specialists are Experts
in the Rapid Treatment of Men’s Diseases.
There are thousands of cheerless homes in Aus-
tralia filled with unhappiness, lacking in genuine
companionship, possibly through physical im-
pairment or weakness of a man whose actions
justify such a condition. Privation, indiscretion
in youthful years, or recklessness often cause
a permanent physical disability unless cor.
rect treatment is obtained. This trouble in the
hands of a Specialist yields readily. Men in this
condition should not delay one hour in seeking
relief, because such a condition is at all times dan-
gerous, no matter at what stage of life it appears.
J~fje Xarjcet describes it. as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
Z'tie British Jrfedicai Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
,nd <he AGED.
Benoer's rooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.


The Awful Sausage Trade.
One of the proposals of the Yic. Government for
Tvr 6 iu ew sess i? n a Food Adulteration Act. The
elboume Board of Health has, every now and
nen, pointed out that the unfortunate citizen who
asus tor bread is being given a stone, while his
demand for fish results in his being handed a ser-
pent, or something to that effect. Next to the
milk trade, which, by reason of its bearing on the
pirth rate, is the most important, comes the traffic
in meat. Australians are large meat-eaters, and
it is of very great consequence that the meat they
consume should be wholesome. As a matter of
tact it is, in a large number of cases, nothing
or the kind. Last year The. Bulletin drew
attention to the vast trade that was being done in
that most unwholesome victual, the carcase of
newly-born calves, or “slinks,” as they are
? a Phomously termed. Thousands of calves,
killed either at birth or within a few days of it,
are sent to the metropolis from the dairying dis-
tricts. These slinks are paid for at an average
rate of* from 10s. to 12s. per slink, and there is
always a good demand for them. The fact that
they are bought and paid for by Mel-
bourne butchers leads to the unavoidable in-
ference that they are afterwards sold to and
consumed by Melbourne citizens. As no one in
his right senses will buy plain slink, the butcher
passes it on the unsuspecting customer colored, as
it were, in the shape of sausage. The unpleasant-
ness is added to by the fact that old, diseased, and
worn-out bulls from the dairying districts also find
their way to Melbourne, and the sausage faotory.
Bulls which are hardly able to stand up in the
truck bring from £3 to £5 per head, to the delight
of the provident dairyman. Also, old, toothless
boars, with flesh as rank as that of a crow, go the
same way. Every old and toothless animal, no
matter how tough, fibrous, and unwholesome,
which the cocky farmer has no use for, is now put
on the train and sent to the Melbourne market,
where it is annexed by the meat-purveyors.
An inspection, for a continuous week, of the stock
trains arriving at Melbourne from the Western
District and Gippsland lines, would furnish
material for another royal commission. It is bad
enough for the Melbourne housewife when she
buys vinegar and gets diluted acetic acid, and
when the packet of imported candles turns the
scale at twelve instead of sixteen ounces; but
these things are of small account compared to the
slink sausage that she serves up to her husband
as a foundation for his hard day’s work. The
sausage is a thing in which June and December
meet—a mixture of extreme old age and immature
youth. It is composed partly of the slink and
partly of the slink’s grandfather, and this affecting
family re-union on the table is bad for Melbourne’s
health.
Japan and Australia.
Mb. It. L. Outhwaite writes from London :—
It may interest you to know that the views expressed
in your articles on the introduction of Chinese into the
Transvaal are those held by the great mass of the people
of England—a fact I have learnt from speaking through-
out the length and breadth of the land in exposure of the
infamy.
I desire to point out that this is a matter of deep con-
cern to the people of Australia, since it is quite within
the bounds of possibility that before long the same power
which brought about the introduction of Chinese into the
Transvaal may bring about a terrible crisis in Australia
over the Asiatic question.
The introduction of the Chinese was contrived by the
cosmopolitan financiers of the Continent, of whom the
so-called “mine-owners" of the Transvaal are only the
agents. This wonderful group of men, whose headquar-
ters are at Berlin, and whose power was created by
Bismarck to offset that of the Rothschilds, dominates,
with the latter, the finance of the Old World. South
Africa is entirely in their grip. The Boer Government re-
fused to introduce a forced black labor system at their
demand, and refused to allow the introduction of Chinese,
and the Boer Government was swept away. No sooner
was that accomplished than they again formulated their
demands and crushed the community into seeming
acquiescence.
To indicate their power in the realms of finance, the
dominating firm of the Rand, Werniier, Beit, Eckstein
and Co., lately called for capital for a £6,000,000 “ Trust ”
to control the Kaffir market, and over £100,000,000 was
subscribed, chiefly on the Continent. This firm controls
Cape Colony through De Beers, and Rhodesia through
the British South Africa Co. The power that cosmo-
politan finance exercises to-day over the destinies of Great
Britain it would be impossible to exaggerate.
Now, to indicate how Australia may before long feel
that power. Within a few months the alliance of Great
Britain with Japan must be renewed, and if peace should
at any time be declared, the question of the future rela-
tionship of the two countries will have to be determined.
The Times correspondent at Tokio has written stating
that the Japanese Government will require a complete
alliance, offensive and defensive. The Conservative press
is beginning to advocate such an alliance, and Mr. Cham-
berlain, in a speech delivered last week, declared that he
hoped to see such an alliance concluded. It is generally
considered in political circles in London that Japan would
make one of the terms of such an alliance the right of
entry for her citizens into the territory of her ally. Here,
then, would arise a grave crisis. To refuse this alliance
would leave Japan free to accept Russia as an ally.
Against this would be set, in the eyes of the Conservative
party and the Imperialist section of the Liberal party, the
“ sentimental" objection of the Labor party of Australia
as they would call it.
Then will oome the time for Australia to feel the
unseen power of cosmopolitan finance which has turned
the Rand into an Asiatic sink. The cosmopolitan
financiers, with their race hatred of Russia, with their
hatred of Australian democratic institutions as evinced
again and again in South Afrioa, with their vast invest-
ments in Japanese stocks —for they are financing Japan—
will throw their influence into the scale for the Yellow
Man. The Balfour Government is believed to be clinging
to office in order to be in power when the matter comes
up for determination.
There are fateful possibilities thus ahead, and unfortu-
nately Chamberlain, by his crusade on the basis of his
utterance “ To prevent separation you must tax food,”
has aroused antagonism against the colonies amongst the
masses of the people.
I think that you will admit that these considerations
indicate that the 'people of Australia have an intimate
concern with the Chinese question in the Transvaal,
seeing that there is a possibility that they will have to
contend in the near future against the power which
brought the Asiatic to the Rand, to preserve their own
land from the Yellow Peril.
The Value of Small Things.
When the Australian Tariff was being debated by
the House of Reps, the scorn of the Foreign-
trader for our small embryo industries was some-
thing tremendous. When he found one that was
represented by a couple of factories, employing, at
the most, say, 200 men and boys, he would point a
derisive foreleg at it and bray forth an indignant
query as to whether the House seriously contem-
i plated penalising “thousands and thousands of
our ‘ primary producers * for the sake of two fac-
tories and a couple of hundred employees—mostly
bovs ? ” Usually he wound up by snorting that if
this “ wretched industry ” had to be coddled, it
would be better to give the “ primary producers ”
the benefit of Freetrade in the articles produced,
and pension off the factory people, and thereby
keep a lot of money in the “pockets of the
people.” The fact that the money that was sent
abroad in return for foreign goods left the pockets
of the people in the process of being sent, was
carefully ignored. The Foreign-trader always de-
clines to consider the manufacturing industries
of the country as a whole, and insists on viewing
BLACKMAIL.
ENRAGED SMALL BOY (who has been refused a copper by johnny): “ Don’t you have
nothin' to do with him, lady. I see him take another girl in there yesterdee.”
them in detail. He speaks scornfully of the iron
industry as if it were the only one, instead of one
of many, and all the abuse and hate he has for the
whole of the manufacturing industries is heaped
on each particular fraction in turn. He poses as a
large-minded statesman, who has no time for
small, piffling matters such as the welfare of 100
men employed in one galvanised-iron factory. He
looks over them to where the vast interests of the
thousands and thousands of “primary producers”
rise like mountains against the horizon of his out-
look. When a country finds that it has a legislator
like that, it should pole-axe him, if there is no
other way of getting rid of him, for he is a fool, or
something worse—probably the agent of a foreign
exporter. The expert is the man who knows the
value of small things. J. D. Rookefellek, of
Standard Oil notoriety, who may be allowed to
know something of how to make money, was a man
whose master-stroke of genius consisted in getting
a saving of 50 cents per barrel on the freight over
250 miles. It doesn’t look very brilliant, but it led
to the making of the largest private fortune the
world has ever seen in the amazingly short space
of 20 years. The proper standpoint to consider
an Australian industry from is not, “ How many
does it employ?”, but “How many will it employ
if we secure it the first call in its own market?”
An industry that is confined to one factory and em-
ploys only 100 pair of hands seems a small matter
for a nation to consider. But the nation doesn’t
live by one industry alone, and if it has 1000 in-
dustries employing only 100 people each, it means
a manufacturing population of 100,000, who will
probably support 300,000 people directly, and far
more indirectly. And the “great primary indus-
tries” of driving a cow to the byre, cutting wool
off the back of a sheep, or carrying stinking hides
up the side of a ship, do not employ many people
if you come to consider the driving of the cow to
the byre as one industry, shearing the wool as
another, the packing of it into bales a third, the sort-
ing of the smellful hides a fourth, and so on. A
manufacturing artisan is worth to the community
about three times the value of a “ primary prod ucer. ”
Carried to its logical conclusion, the doctrine that
the Foreign-trader preached in the Commonwealth
Tariff debate was that because our manufacturing
industries were little we should strangle them.
Applied to the population question, the doctrine
of the Foreign-trader is that we should kill all our
babies because they are small, and because each
infant is only one infant, and one infant doesn’t
really count. It is a weird doctrine, and the man
who originated it probably intended it for a joke,
and never dreamed that there were fools on the
planet who would take it seriously.
The Yellow Peril.
“Nagasaki,” from Adelaide, asks these ques-
tions :—
1. Will not Japan, in Tiib Bulletin’s opinion, be
content with the fruits of her victories, and not attempt
—at any rate for many years—to cast longing eyes
towards Manilla and Australia as an outlet for her
increasing population ?
2. If Japan had lost in the war, and been thereby shut
out of Manchuria and Korea, would not the Japs have
had to make a big bid for either the Philippines or
Australia as soon as they possibly could ?
3. Under present circumstances, isn’t it just as well for
Australia that Japan will have an outlet into Korea and
Manchuria, and thus postpone her descent (if it must
come) to Australia for some years ?
To which, in reply :—
1. It is not possible to say with certainty what the Japs
will be content with. The only means of guessing at
Japan's future intentions are to study the overt actions
of the Japanese Government and the articles in Japanese
papers, and they all hint at an early attempt to “ deal
with ” Australia.
2. If Japan had lost in the present war there would not
have been enough of Japan’s power left to menace
Australia. Japan would have been kept so busy
keeping Japan for the Japanese that there would have
been no time to think of taking Australia for the Japanese.
3. The “outlet" for Japan in Manchuria and Korea is
to some extent only a phrase. Korea is a smaller place
than Victoria, and the population is estimated as high as
16,000,000. Manchuria is about the size of N.S.W., with
13,000,000 people. These “outlets” are not likely to
satisfy the Jap for long. In Korea, especially, there is
really very little room except by killing off the present
inhabitants, and even now there ii bitter anger in
Korea with Japan’s overlordship because the Japs are
striving to dispossess the natives.
Generally speaking the purport of “Nagasaki’s ”
queries is this: If a man you know to be your
enemy is fighting with a stranger, and promises,
after finishing with him, to attack you, isn’t it
best to sympathise with his attack on the stranger
in the hope that one victory will satisfy him?
This paper doesn’t think so.
Parkes and B. Smith.
There were men after the heart and aspiration of
Bruce Smith in Sydney over 60 years ago. This
from Henry Parkes’ letter to his sister—23rd
J anuary, 1842
At present we have also too much labor in Sydney,
great numbers of workmen, mechanics, and laborers,
“ old hands in the colony,” unemployed. The new-
comers fare worse, of course... Wages are much lower than
they were a few years ago. You will feel surprised that
in this state of things there should be such a cry raised in
the colony for increased immigration, not only from Great
Britain and the continent of Europe, but from India and
China. The fact is, the parties who are foremost in the
endeavors to inundate us with workers look only to the
depreciation of labor as the sure result. They have been
accustomed to have the convict’s toil for nothing, and
they cannot bring their minds to paying for that of the
free man. Hence they would fain have the poor coolie
from India bound to them for a number of years—a slave
in everything but in name.
Again, 26th January, 1843, Parkes wrote
Wages are very low and employment not very plentiful
in Sydney. In the country the only demand for labor is
as shepherds, and for this, purpose the flock-masters are
striving their utmost to obtain hill coolies from India on
the ground, they state, of not being able to give the price
of European labor, which is at present from £l5 to £2O
per annum and rations.
It seems questionable if there is a single industry
in Australia which hasn’t, at one time or
another, pointed out that its ruin could only be
averted by cheap nigger labor. Perhaps an ex-
ception could be made in favor of the legal in-
dustry. No one has yet heard the eerie, windy
wail of Bruce Smith demanding the encourage-
ment here of the cheap Hindu barrister—the in-
dividual who hangs on a rotting wall outside a
noisome alley in Delhi or Lucknow the sign “ Ram
Blather, Pleader.” Yet Ram Blather is won-
derfully cheap, and as a pleader he will drag his
client through the eye of a needle, even if he has
to hire ten witnesses to do it and also buy the native
Judge—who is always for sale.
*
“N.Q.” : As one with a good knowledge of the
Queensland tropics, I am getting horribly tired
of this eternal sugar (and nigger) cry. Those who
assert that sugar is the be-all and end-all of N.Q.
are suffering from a thick coating of ignorance.
From Bundaberg to Cooktown there is a coastal
belt, 800 miles long and from 50 to 500 miles
inland, that will produce any sub-tropical fruit,
cereal or tree known to agricultural science.
Professor Skelton stated in writing that
the soil in the Burdekin Delta would
grow anything on God’s earth—-except ice-
bergs and sand. When the Federal exploring
party visited the State nursery at Kamerunga,
near Cairns, they found growing in profusion
scores of fruits, shrubs, and economic plants that
the “sugar or nothing” man : only dreams of.
Between Port Douglas and Maryborough there are
thousands of miles of lush grass country able to
produce the finest dairy cattle on the eastern
coast, and the beef and mutton from north and
west of Hugheuden hold their own in the markets
of the Cold Country. Even the ignorant sugar-
grower has been shown by the Government ex-
pert how to improve his land, and get 82 tons
per acre as against 54 tons by his old, crude
methods. Some of the small growers are emerg-
ing from the ruck, and increasing their bank
accounts; the others sit and moan, “ Give us our
Kanaka.” If the Australian Government ever
starts a Department of Agriculture, its first act
should be to send a man up here to point out to
the slothful and Kanaka-loving white the iniquity
and depth of his ignorance, and the folly of crying
over-ripe fish.
“B.”: A feature of the Reid-Symon attack on
the High Court is that as long as sittings of the
Court are held in Sydney, and the judges
reside there, “the concession is to be made of
expenses during the Melbourne sittings.” Ihe
Justices are either entitled to their travelling
expenses during the Melbourne sittings, or they
are not. If they are, they don’t want them as a
concession. If they are not, the Government has
no right to grant them either as a concession or as
anything else. It is no more justified in spending
public money on the Justices than in spending it
on apple-tarts for the Justices’ children. The
Order-in-Council, after conferring on the Justices
certain monetary privileges to which, according
to the Attorney-General, they are not entitled,
proceeds to announce that this “concession ” is to
be “subject to revision when circumstances arise.”
The “circumstances” which may induce the
Government to withdraw the concession are not
specified. They may, of course, include the cir-
cumstance that the Court has given a decision
which happens to displease the Government. It
is hard to believe that the men who devised such
a scheme as this have the faintest notion of what
is meant by the independence of the judiciary.
Thus the London correspondent of the Age :
In the event of an attack being made on India, the
troops there would have to be reinforced by the despatch
during the first year of 130,000 to 160,000 men from
Great Britain. Further drafts would have to be sent
at intervals if the struggle were much prolonged. The
regular army at home would be reduced to meagre pro-
portions in comparison with any of the highly trained
European armies which lie near at hand. This would be
a direct temptation to a continental enemy, possibly
Germany. The risks of invasion and of the interruption
of sea-borne food supplies would be so obvious to the
English people that it is expected they would insist upon
having all the available ships of the navy confined to home
waters jor the purposes of coast defence, leaving several
other parts of the Empire, including Australia, without
any effective protection from attack.
The Bulletin has pointed out, over and over
again, how Freetrade and landlordism have so
far destroyed British agriculture that Britain
is now almost wholly dependent on foreign
lands for its food supplies, and if a really
serious naval war comes about, it will need,
not only a sufficient fleet to defend its own
two islands, but one sufficient to protect its
food ships coming from Canada, the United
States, and perhaps Argentina—else it will starve.
And even if Britain maintains a navy equal to
that of any two possible enemies, it doesn’t follow
that it will have a ship to spare for Australia’s
defence, despite the £200,000 a year we pay for
the privilege of looking at a nice, clean squadron
in time of peace. Australia must have its own
navy. The Bulletin told its people that, in days
when British authorities described any suggestion
of having our own navy as something like “dis-
loyalty.” Now British authorities begin to give
us notice that it is time for U 3 to get our own
navy, because Britain itself may find more than
enough to do in its local waters ; and The Bulle-
tin view is no longer “disloyal.” It is only
prophetic.
♦
From the annual report of the director of the
Imperial Railway Bureau, Tokio, Japan :
On 31st March, 1904, the staff and employees of Govern-
ment and private railways comprised 487 officers, 65,478
general employees, and one foreign employee.
The Jap gladly employs foreigners from whom he
thinks he can learn new ideas, but when he has
acquired the ideas, the foreigner is sacked, merely
for the unpardonable crime of being a foreigner.
Therefore, before Australia gives the glad hand of
welcome to Mr. Yoshiwarra it might perhaps be
well that he should learn to be a little less reticent
in the matter of extending his own paw of brother-
hood. Japan, by the way, has another notable
peculiarity in this connection. There is hardly an
instance on record of a foreigner winning a case
against a Jap in a Jap court. Whether the white
man is plaintiff or defendant it is all one. The
courtesy which the brownish magistrate shows
towards him is perfect, and he hands him butter
on a lordly dish, but no matter how overwhelming
may be the evidence in favor of the white litigant
the brown litigant wins. The European plaintiff
gets the oil and grease of affability, while the
Asiatic defendant is treated almost rudely by
comparison, and gets a verdict for the full amount,
with costs, handed down to him in a way that
nearly hurts his feelings.
4.
“P.” : In the past five years Victoria swept into its
Treasury, and used as ordinary revenue, £1,304,984
derived from land-sales ; and yet, compared with
N.S.W., Victoria was amazingly honest in this
respect. Irvine and Bent, in one year alone
(1903-4), grabbed £286,408; and then they talked
about a surplus, and it is a dreadful fact that
theirs was actually the most honest State surplus
in the Commonwealth that year. If a business
man borrowed money on his stock, and then sold
his stock, and paid nothing off the debt, but
went on issuing faked balance-sheets showing that
his business was flourishing, he would be spoken
to severely when he faced the inevitable insolvency
court. Very probably a warder would subse-
quently draw the attention of No. 964 to the fact
that his cell hadn’t been tidied up. But the issuer
of the faked public balance-sheet fears nothing like
that. At the worst he is made a K.C.M.G. The
political crime of collaring capital and treating it
as revenue might be partly smudged out if a
decent land-tax were put on—if a land-tax brought
in to the State as much as the Treasurer stole from
the State. But while Victoria’s land, of the value
of £1,304,984, was collared and used as revenue,
the land-tax in the same five years only totalled
£503,344.
♦
Australian Torydom, which never pauses in its
perennial shriek against the Immigration Restric-
tion Act, should once more consider the Bill which
the Home Secretary of Britain (the place we are
eternally told to look to for guidance) has intro-
duced into the House of Commons. It provides
(shame !) that aliens—white aliens too —shall land
only at such ports as shall be prescribed, and then
only by the leave of the immigration officer. This
official is empowered to debar the entrance of all
undesirable immigrants, and an immigrant is un-
desirable if he cannot show that he is in a position
to “decently” support himself and his depen-
dants ;if he is a lunatic; if, through infirmity
(such as being a “blind tourist”), he is likely to
become dependent upon the rates or a detri-
ment to the public; if he has been sen-
tenced for a non-political crime; and if an
expulsion order has been made against him.
The Bill also goes a step further than anything
yet proposed in Australia and gives power to the
Secretary of State to expel aliens once admitted,
on their conviotion for crime or if, “ in the opinion
of a court of summary jurisdiction, their expulsion
is advisable.” It would be interesting to hear
George Pile and Bilnox and the rest of the
Australian Fat party “ viewing ” everything with
“alarm” if Watson suggested such a measure.
A Bill which authorises the exclusion or expulsion
of the alien for a whole host of specified reasons,
and then adds a general power of expulsion in
addition, goes miles beyond anything yet suggested
here.


£°- FCl37.—Very handsome “Louis” design
presentation Tea and Coffee Service ; Best Silver-
Plated, on Hard Nickel Silver, £l6 10s.
No. G472l. —Silver-Plated Sauce Boat on Trav
Suitable Wedding Gift this. Price 18s 6d.
No. G4s9l.—Solid Silver Satin-lined
Jewel Case and Pin Cushion combined,
27s 6d.
No. Gl24B.—Polished English Oak Salad Bowl
with Servers: China-lined, Mounts and Servers
Silver-Plated, 80s.
No. E2359.—A Novel Wedding Gift. A Silver-plated
and Embossed Sugar Basin and Cream Jug
on a Tray, £1 10s.
Y ou can buy from us jUsfc as safely and satisfactorily by letter as if you came in person. You can
1 return at once any article that is not to your liking, and we wall exchange it or refund the pur-
chase money. We post everything free on receipt of remittance. The following Five Illustrated
Catalogues are Free ; write for whichever you are interested in F-“ Our General Catalogue,” “Our
Watch Catalogue,” “ Greenstone Jewellery,” “ Gifts for Babies,” “ Presentation Goods.”
No. G3ll3.— Cut
Glass and Solid
Silver Smeiling
Salts Bottle, 9/(1.
No. G6000.-Silver-Plated and Real Pearl Handle Crumb Scoop, S2s 6d
With Ivory Handle, 30s, With Ivoride Handle, 17s 6d and 18s 6d.
No. G 3171.
Silver - plated
Tea Caddy
Spoon, 4s 6d.
No. C 1455. —The Patent Orange
Silver-plated. Takes the peel off
quickly and cleanly, Is 6d.
No. E6sll. — Very Handsomely-Mounted Comb,
Hall-Marked Silver, 11s 6d.
No. G34o4.—Satin-lined Jewel Case or Trinket Box,.
4in. long, Best Silver-plate, 14s 6d.
No. E7l22.—Toilet Set, comprising Powder Jar, Hair and
Safety Pin Boxes, and Heart Shape Jewel Boa,
on Tray, Strongly Silver-plated, £3.
No. F 1340. Best Massive
English Cut-Glass and Silver-
plated Claret Jug, £2 ss.
Solid Silver Handker-
chief Bags. These are
now quite the correct
thing. An Assortment
of styles, £3 12s 6d,
£3 15s, £3 17s 6d,
£4 10s.
No. P2B7S.—The Apple Jam Dish.
Clear glass, Silver-plated Stand,
Cover and Spoon, 11s 6d.
No. 82384.—0ut Glass
Butter Dish, Silver-
plated Stand and
Knife, lls 6d.
No. E3792.—Very handsome design, full sue, Silver-
plated Tea and Coffee Service. Just the thing for
Presentations. £9 XOs.
No. F9CB9.—Our Special Field-Glass, of good quality,,
complete in Leather Case with Strap and Cord.
Price only 215..
m
No. Gl969.—The Most Popular Flower Vase of To-Day
—Best Plate, Weighted Bases, height 6Jin. 8s 6d,
6|in. 9s 6d, 7Jin. 10s 6d.
No. F4Bls.—Very Smart full-size Tea and Coffee
Service. Good Quality Plate on Nickel Silver,
£8 10s.
ERADICATE URIC ACID
WHAT WE HEAR DAILY.
♦
“Cupar, Fife, Oct. 11, 1904.
“ Dear Sirs—l have used Kutnow’s Pow-
der often myself with beneficial effect.
Would you be good enough to forward a
bottle of same to . . . who is a martyr to
liver affection and accompanying symptoms
of uric acid poisoning ? By so doing you will
oblige
“JAMES BORROWMAN, F.R.C.V.S.”
ENTIRELY FREE FROM URIC ACID.
Boston, Mass., Sept. 16th.
,“ I have suffered for the past two years
with Gout in its most painful form, my body
being thoroughly charged with uric acid. I
used Kutnow’s Powder, and in three days
the morning tests showed less and less acid,
until now lam free. I have now taken four
bottles. I consider Kutnow’s Powder the
greatest uric acid solvent in the world. I
am using same throughout practice and hos-
pital.
“JOHN T. SIMPSON, M.D.”
hospital surgeon says :
“Parco Grifeo, Naples, Italy,
9th July, 1904.
“Dear Sirs—l duly received some time
ago a bottle of Kutnow’s Powder, of which I
handed some to my friend, Professor Dr. 0.
Scotti, House Surgeon of the International]
Hospital here, who, acknowledging the ro-
ceipt with thanks, says : * I have known the
remedy about a year, and have used it in
many cases with very satisfactory success.*—
Yours truly,
“ J. WOLFFSOHN.”
The Medical Journal,
OCTOBER, 1904, SAYS:
“ The uric acid problem affords an ever-increasing interest, not
only on account of the many attempts at solution and various
theories set forth, but because of the 'wide field of investigation
which is opened up with the fascinating prospect of bringing to light
metabolic facts which have ever been shrouded in obscurity. We
do know, however, whence uric acid is derived, but the metabolism
produced thereby has yet to be determined. Regardless of diet, rich
and poor suffer alike from the accumulation of uric acid, which some-
times occurs without any apparent failure in health ; but more often
are the kidneys and bladder affected, and the digestive organs im-
paired ; hence excessive uric acid is frequently responsible for heart-
burn, flatulence, and liver trouble. Lithia has been tried and found
useless, for when taken by the mouth it chemically combines with
the phosphates in its progress through the stomach and there forms
insoluble compounds. The best remedy we know possessing a solvent
action and eliminative properties is Kutnow’s Powder, which is
largely used by the Medical Profession and has always given the
highest satisfaction wherever it has been tried.”
IMPORTANT CAUTION !
All respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder, but there are others who,
for the sake of a little extra profit, will attempt to foist upon you some cheap
imitation of their own. It is well known that these cheap concoctions are
highly dangerous, and in the case of delicate, sensitive persons, capable of
inflicting permanent injury. Kutnow’s Powder is pure, painless, palatable,
free from sugar, and absolutely harmless. See that the fac-simile signature,
“ S. Kutnowand Co., Ld.” and the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung,
or Deer Leap,” are on the carton in which the bottle is packed, and also on
the label on the bottle. This signature and trade mark will alone insure your
obtaining the
Genuine KUTNOW’S POWDER.
How is nervous Headache brought on ?
Principally by the retention of the excessive
Uric acid, which is a terrible scourge to the
nervous system.
How is this uric acid headache distinguished ?
When it is due to uric acid poisoning, it is
generally one-sided or partial, as over the
brow, and more or less intermittent pain
on pressure of the scalp, and darting or
shooting pains from temple to temple.
Is uric acid dangerous ?
Not immediately so; it is very insidious, but
ultimately, if not checked, its ravages are
disastrous.
Is nervous Headache a first sign of uric acid
poisoning ?
Yes ! when the uric acid is absorbed by the
blood it is rapidly circulated and deposited
in the nerve centres, notably the spine
and brain.
Is uric acid productive of disease ?
To its baneful influence may be ascribed in-
numerable ailments, amongst which are
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Insomnia, Melan-
cholia, Gout, Sciatica, Enfeebled Brain
and Suicidal Tendency.
What is the proper treatment ?
Kutnow’s Powder not only removes the
headache, but concurrently invigorates the
nerve centres and expels the cause of
the trouble.
Is the action of Kutnow’s speedy ?
Yes, it will remove headache within 20 or 30
minutes.
Proprietors; S. KUYNOW & €0«, Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: Kutnow Bros., Ltd.,
853 Broadway, New Vork.
[3-9J


DUNKLINC’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph.
*
m
HUBODBUB
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
wJWi
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne*
'Telephone I Vo. 1043. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Ball
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Against Damp Air, Chilis, Colds
and dangers arising therefrom
FOR SAFETY
WEAR
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
ggi’Full illustrated Price List Free. “Eft
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
75 King street, Sydney.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
(he sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
ELECTRO-TRERAPY!
The Treatment of Disease by Electricity.
Professor Larkin, one of the Leading Scientists of the age, resu^
of the Great Congress of Science, on Physiology, held in
* St. Louis, last year, as follows:
“The entire system of Physiology will toe vastly modified.—The trend it ( towards
“Electrical Age is here, and the healer must get into line. The wor , ma _ ns a store of Electricity
“of Electricity in the body, flowing at normal rates; and the Word DEBASE’ means a store of Eleo
“LESS than the natural quantity, and flowing with reduced speed and volume of c
Upwards of twenty years ago we started with this assertion, now become an axiom,
with the result that all the leading Scientists have fallen into line with U 9, and
they recognise, as Professor Loeb puts it, that . .
HUMAN . VITALITY IS ELECTRICITY I
There are • always scoffers and sceptics, and there are many now who do not believe in.
Electricity, but let them who doubt the wonders of this marvellous treatment come to us,
and we can convince them by actual proof. We have the weight of evidence in our favor ,
by the many thousands of cures made, and a steadily increasing practice, Why ? Because the
practice has proved the theory correct. . . . It is not only to the Sick and Weak that our
treatment appeals. To those in fair health we say: “ Keep yourselves in health ; don’t allow your
body to get into a Weakened or Run-Down Condition, ‘ Prevention is better than Cure.’ ” Health is
the best property anyone can possess, yet most people are careless regarding it. Many leading people,
Merchants, Squatters, Bankers, Barristers, etc., use our treatment as an Invigorator and Preventative.
Read these Extracts from Leading’ Scientists’ Reports.
Dp. GOLIDENCr BIRD, Isifra Physician Guy’s
Hospital. London, and to Koyal Col-
lege of Physicians, England, says:
“ Shocks are not required to develop therapeutic effects,
and it is only to the Mild, Continuous Current that we must
look for a vast development of '.therapeutic Influence,”
Professor RKMAK says:
* Constant currents of low density have proved useful in
cases of Hysteric Neuralgia, Myalgia, Disorders of the
Functions, Asthenia, Hypersesthesia of the Cutaneous Ner-
ves, Parsesthesia, Insomnia.
Dr. {McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
is made for YOU. It is the best way to use Electricity. It pours a gentle stream of life into the weak
parts continually for hours every night. It refreshes the Nerves, expands the vital powers, enriches the
circulation, and makes you feel bright, active, and vigorous in one night’s use. You get stronger each day,
and in a few weeks you are a new man—stronger and younger in the fire of youth. It is grand, this
method of ours, and every man who has ever used it is praising it.
Mr. M. N. Havard, of Eoupke, N. S.W., who
suffered from Nepvo -Vital Weakness and
Rheumatism, writes: “ Dear Sirs,—l cannot cease
praising your marvellous Belt for its curative powers ; it
is a God-send to Australasia —it was to me at all events.
The benefit it has imparted to me compels me to acknow-
ledge to the world its proficiency as a cure. It has un-
doubtedly saved me from an untimely grave. No tongue
can express sufficient words in its praise.”
Mp. J. Pickering, of Goldsmith St., Goul-
bupn, N. S.W., says: “It is now about three years
since I got one of-your Belts, and I think it only fair to
you to let you know of the good I have derived from it;
in fact, it has made life worth living. I have been in
better health since using it than I had been for the past
twelve years—since my back was hurt. I only put it on
now for about two hours at night when I feel a little out
of sorts, and it never fails to put me r.ght.”
Our ELECTRIC BELT, with special Electric Attachments, will restore your
strength, will check all drains, and will give you bask th© old Vigor or
Youth. It cures Lost Vigor, Nervousness, Functional Decline, urinary
Ailments, Varicocele, Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Weak Back,
Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Insomnia, and all Liver, Kidney, and Stomach
Troubles. Every man who ever used it recommends it, because
it is honest. It does great work, and those whom it has
cured are all the more grateful because it costs so little.
,n
I
/
|i I; 1
FUNCTIONAL WEAKNESS, LOCOMOTOR ATAXY. GOSCHEN, VIC.
Dear Sirs,—Your favor of recent date duly to hand. lam thankful to be able to report a great improve-
ment in my health. The Belt has driven a lot of waste matter out of the Bladder, and I feel much stronger
bodily. The Belt has also driven the sympathetic pain out of my legs. I am well satisfied with my invest-
ment, and must say that your Belt is a veritable multum in parvo, as it can be used in so many different w ays,
and for so many different purposes. The following will describe my condition since using your Belt . my
n ——i hoc iioon inviVorafipH. fchp rie-ht lee-, which was shrivelling 1 up before 1 started to
General Health has been wonderfully invigorated, the right leg, which was shrivelling up
wear the Belt, has come back to its natural size, and I feel almost a new man.
Yours truly,
JOSEPH MacPHERSON.
UMBILICAL RUPTURE, LIVER AND KIDNEY TROUBLES.
' “ Ardross,” AMBERLEY, N.Z.
Dear Sirs,—l feel that I must write you and tell you how the Belt has been working. I cannot express in
words my feelings for the great good it has done me. Yes, I have every faith in you and the Belt. Lne
trouble to get better was my eyes ; for more than five years they have felt as if there was a. weight at the back
of them. I have had a pain in my left shoulder for many years, which, lam pleased to tell you, is now quite
well. I have had a buzzing in my left ear for more than four years, it would commence every afternoon.
It is very much better, and sometimes it is several days and does not buzz at all. I have had a fullness in my
throat, and it used to hurt me to talk sometimes. lam very pleased to tell you it is now quite better.
I had only worn the Belt a very short time when the heavy weight went away, and I could never t
you how thankful I was to get rid of it. . . , . ~,:n
I thank you very much for your kind letters and the interest you have taken in my case, hoping you
orwv ormva/1 fn rln rvnnrl In nf.hoi*a «ia VBII hffVP HnnP fni* TYIP. YOUFS VQYy“ SinCCrCiy* ALlOiff M. "“"i •
be long spared to do good to others, as you have done for me.
Call on our Specialist,
Who will show and explain this Won-
derful Treatment to you; or, if you are
suffering from any form of Ailment ap-
plicable to our methods, he will diagnose your case thoroughly, advise you, and explain
whether the Electro-Trerapy Treatment will cure you or not. Such Advice, and alt inform-
ation will be given FREE OF CHARGE. Consulting Hours: Daily (Sundays excepted),
from 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. If you cannot call, WRITE, and we will forward you our Grand
mr FREE BOOK, "»■
which will give you alt the information you require about this Great Remedy, and, in
addition, shows you the many ailments that the Electro-Trerapy Treatment cures. It con-
tains many illustrations, showing how we apply our Treatment for various ailments. On
application, we will send this Book FREE an d POST PAID to any address.
THE DR. McLAUGHUN GO.,
Melbourne Office—l67E. Swanston St. IV.Z. Office—s 4 Willis St., Wellington
West Australian Office—SO William St., Perth. william ciiarles crawford.
100 W. MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
Read This Grand Letter,
50 Palmer Street,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO,
Sydney, N.S.W-
Thb Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs—l am afraid that I Trill not be
able to express my feelings of gratitude
sufficiently on paper. I was in despair at
the thoughts of having to undergo another
operation. It would then have been three
of the most dreadful operations that any
woman could undergo. The previous
ones made me dread the doctor’s knife
again. I went to you as a last resource,
not with the least thought that your Belt
could do me any good, for the doctor who
was attending me said that I would have
to go into the hospital again, and I was
breaking down under the thoughts of it.
One day, whi e in despair, I spoke to my
mother about it, and she advised me to
try one of your Electric Belts, and I can
heartily thank God, and you also, that I
did try it. I cannot tell you how many
pounds my illness had cost me before I
got your Belt, and I was none the better
for it, but now I can say to my friends
that I am quite another woman, after
years of suffering, and I feel sure 1-hat
others may recover as I have through
using your Wonderful Electric Belt. I
shall be pleased to testify to anyone who
would wish to see me, and will describe
your Belt, and tell them all it has done for
me.—l remain, your grateful friend,
(Mrs.) L. BULK.
Our Special Diagnosis
. . System . .
EnaVes us to successfully treat
your trouble IN YOUR OWN
HOME —the same as if you visited
our Specialist. We have Cured
Thousands in this way, without
ever seeing them.


YOU
A
With Wounds that discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen, that when you
press your linger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds; the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of the power to walk.
You may have attended various hospitals and had medical
advice and been told your case is hopeless, or advised to
submit to amputation ; but do not, for I can cure you, I
don't say perhaps, but I will. Because others have failed
itisno reason I should. .Send at once for a Box of Albert s
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills, which is a ce. tain cure of
BadLegs,H ousemaid 'sKnce, Ulcera tedj oints,Carbuncles,
Bunions, Ringworm, Poisoned Hands, and Insect Bites.
Of all Chemists, Stores, &c. Prepared by ALBERT, 73,
Farringdon Street, London, England. Purchasers should
look for*the Registered Trade Mark of the Grasshopper
on a green label on each box. (Reg.i tered Copyright).
mm tonic.
The Finest Preparation ever introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS ST FJS9M FALLING anti
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 26, Posted 2/ 0* Givis it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Ladles’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
Fis sheer folly to continue endur-
ing colds, coughs, throat, lung,
skin and blood troubles, languor
and weakness, with all the attend-
ant expense, when you can make
a clean sweep of them all simply
by using Scott’s Emulsion of cod
liver oil with glycerine and the hy-
pophosphites of lime and soda.
Scott’s Emulsion
Is doubly economical. Firstly, be-
cause of its perfect digestibility,
Scott’s Emulsion enables the sys-
tem to derive the full benefit of the
oil, instead of allowing a large per-
centage to pass through undigested
and therefore wasted, as happens
with the plain oil and inferior pre-
parations. Secondly, Scott’s Emul-
sion cures the trouble and therefore
instantly puts an end to the terrible
expense which attends illness. _
This glowing
letter, dated June
16th, 1904, is from
Mrs. J. Hayes,Har-
den, N.S.W. —“ My
son suffered for
two years with a
cold on his lungs,
hardrackingcough
with pain in the
chest, between his
slioulders,and near
1 his heart. He had
Ino appetite and
could not sleep. I
purchased many
so-called 4 reme-
dies 1 but he ob-
tained no relief.
S c o 11’s Emulsion
agreed with him
( from the first dose.
Now the. cough has
entirely left him,
file has a s'plendid ap-
petite, sleeps well and
has gained consider-
ably in weight.”
SCOTT'S
EMULSION
ps not a modi
[remedy, but a
real remedy, and
therefore the
only economical
remedy.
f Write to-day for a free
I sample bottle (enclosing
4d. for postage and
mentioning this paper)
to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483, Kent St., Sydney,
N.S.W. J
&
«sr
/*(
Griffith and Allan, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a brand of their business in
Melbourne —(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
“Vulcan” : Have you noticed the great
number of boot robberies lately ? It doesn’t
matter, but I rise to give my opinion that some-
body in this great semi-Freetrade country is
getting his feet ready, to go out in search of a job. t
“ Jimmy Pannikin” writes :
Let me sketch for you a few of the changes wrought in.
the most outback Public School of New South Wales, by
intelligent, sympathetic administration of the foolishly
derided New Syllabus. The said school is a prison-like
stone structure in Tibooburra, a tiny, tinny township,
almost on the Queensland border. Its old name, by the
way, was “The Granite Rocks." The town lies on an
auriferous flat surrounded by millions of granite boulders,
heaped together in curious fashion. Geological folk call
the place “ Gibberburra,” which is neat. But to get back
to the Syllabus-sweetened school. The school interior is
brightened by numerous colored pictures, black and
white illustrations, engravings, photographs, collections
of local grasses (gathered after the rare rainfall), timbers,
rocks, etc. The library (contributed by parents and red*
dents) contains a large number of-interesting, healthy
books (not of the goody-goody, preachy, wishy-washy,
weary kind), magazines, illustrated periodicals, weekly
and daily newspapers; and is a live institution, run-on
lines that encourage the reading, remembering, and
thinking habit. The girls have a properly laid-oiit
croquet ground, and a good supply of material. They
play daily. The boys play criqket and football with up-
to-date kits. Every pupil’has a set of dumb-bells (many
being home-made, but effective). The physical training
is fine. The children exercise vigorously. They stand
well, and move easily; obey promptly and cheerfully;
and practise deep nasal breathing. There are no truants,
no late-comers. Children have found that, even in dry,
dusty Tibooburra, there is much of interest in their daily
surroundings. Parents cannot keep their children at
home from school. School is the one bright spot in the
lives of these right-out-back children. Tibooburra parents
bless the Syllabus—they do not sneer at it. Ask them if
’tis so.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of all chemists. PARIS MEDICINE CO., Temple
Chambers, London, E.C. England.*
Joe Symes, once of the Liberator, is
said to be farming at Cheltenham (Vic.), the
region where Ilicciotti Garibaldi took Marcus
Clarke to see his chicken incubator. Marcus said
it exploded. Symes has left off flogging dead
horses.
The schooner Swan, which carried George
Coppin and his theatrical co. (including Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Young and Rogers) from Hobart to
Melbourne in ’46, has had a more extended, if not
more adventurous, career than the player whose
fortunes she bore 59 years back. The Swan came
into existence over 90 years ago (how much over it
is hard to say) as a t rench cutter. Finding its
way to Tasmania about ’37, it was rigged as a
schooner, and afterwards traded between Victorian
ports and the Flyspeck. In the ’Bo’s or ’9o’s,
Captain Loch, of Westernport (Vic.), bought it in
Hobart. It was then lengthened with blue gum
and converted into a ketch. Since that time it
has been trading between Melbourne and Western-
port. Its timber for’ard, being oak, is now just as
sound as on the day it was launched. At present
it is in the hands of Captain F. Jansen, who runs
it as a cargo boat in the Melbourne to Westernport
trade. The Swan may be twenty years older than
George Coppin, who is in his second youth at 86.
It is spending the evening of its days in easy work,
which is chiefly done on the placid waters of
Westernport Bay. Possibly it may last longer
than the man whom it first assisted to rise on the
Australian theatrical horizon. But the Swan has
liad new timbers put in. It is not likely that the
father of the Australian stage will be similarly re-
'fitted. All the same, George must have some oak
in him, both for’ard' and aft.
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
IMPERIAL.**
’S^>
imperial
B\>e * *
Ointment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/”,
ohemists & stores. Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melbl
Panacea
for all
Stomach Troubles
DrSheldon’s
DIGESTIVE TABULES
"Digest what gou eat ”
The Only Cure
INDIGESTION &r
Dyspepsia.
Letters.
From W. H. M'Glew, Esq., J.P., Springside, Smith’s Mill, W.A., 11th November, 1908:
“Seventeen years ago I was suffering with Bright’s Disease of the kidneys. I was treated by two
doctors, and by them was given up as incurable. They had been attending me for some time, and
finally decided that it was impossible for me to recover, and told me that I must prepare for the worst.
The announcement came as a great shock to me, and more so to my wife and family, who were greatly
distressed. At that time my head and body were in an alarming state, being swollen right up to the
eyes. I had a vague feeling of unrest and tenderness in the kidneys $ I suffered from extreme wakef illness,
and gradual failure of strength also, as I was not able to keep anything on my stomach.
The fact that I am alive to-day is, however, proof that doctors are not always
correct when they tell you you are going to die. _I did not give _up hope myself,
and was determined to live as long as possible. Providentially, about this time, one of Warner s
Safe Cure pamphlets was placed in my hands, and in it I read a letter from someone who had
suffered from the same complaint, and had been cured by taking Warner’s Safe Cure. lat once
decided that, as the doctors said they could do no more for me, I would give Warner’s Safe Cure a
trial and see if that would do me any good. I sent immediately for a supply of Warners
Safe Cure and a vial of Warner’s Safe Pills, and commenced taking these medicines
without delay, keeping strictly to the diet rules given, which I believe to be the most
important, in order that the medicine may do its work without hindrance. I did not at
first inform the doctors that I was taking Warner’s Safe Cure, for fear that they might
object to my doing so. After taking a few bottles I began to feel better, and this gave me faith to
continue. The swelling in my head and body went down gradually, and other distressing ailments
were greatly relieved. I continued to improve in health, gaining strength each day. The doctors were
delighted at my rapid and almost miraculous recovery, but when I informed them what medicine
had produced the result, they would scarcely believe me. In a few more weeks I had quite recovered
nay normal strength, and have since had no return of the complaint, and am in as good health to-day
as ever I was in my life. To prove that this is so, agents for Insurance Companies have offered to
insure my life for any amount.”
From Mr. R. W. Eames, Blacksmith, Port Pirie, S. A., Ist Deoember, 1903.
“ About twelve years age I was very ill with Bright’s Disease of the Kidneys. My case was
given up as hopeless by two doctors who said I had but three months to live. I went blind, and
dropsy set in so badly that the doctors said there was no cure for me. I had no sleep for six weeks,
and a most terrible headache. I took one bottle of Warner’s Safe Nervine which stopped the head-
ache I then started to take Warner’s Safe Cure and Pills, laying the doctor s medicine aside. _ Very
Boon I was able to get up, my eyesight gradually returned, and the dropsy left me as I gained m
Btrength. The doctors had forbidden me to work at my trade (blacksmith), but I have since worked
for years at that trade at the Proprietary Co.’s Smelters here, and have also passed for life insurance,
without being loaded, after stating what had been the matter with me and no trace of the disease
being found? I resided at Saddleworth at the time of my illness, and many people there would
remember my case. I have reeommended your valuable medicine, or death saving remedy, to a great
number of people, gome of whom have travelled many miles to hear details of my case.
From Mrs. Ellen Judkins, Glenhuntly-road, Glenhuntly, Vic., 29th August, 1903.
“For many years I was suffering with kidney complaint, having pains m my back and under my
ihoulder blade, so severe that I could scarely stand to do my household work, and sometimes at
night the pain was so great that I could not turn over or move my limbs. I tried many advertised
remedies for kidney complaint and also change of climate, but could get no relief. At last I was
advised to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and after taking a few bottles, I was relieved from all pain.
The medicine seemed to put new life and vigor into me. I can now work and sleep well, and am
in the best of health. My husband was a great sufferer from gravel. He consulted a doctor, who
was honest enough to tell him it was ns use taking his money, as he, the doctor, could do nothing
for him. He then commenced to take Warner’s Safe Cure, and experienced almost 1m
diately. After taking a few bottles he was quite relieved from that painful complaint.
From Mrs. V. Williams, 50 Howe Crescent, Albert Park, Vic., 7th January, 1904
“For many years I suffered greatly from intense pain in the small of the back and under the
shoulder blades. 3 I had spells of jumping and fluttering of the heart, which caused me great anxiety
and depression. One day, in one of your pamplets, I read statements of some remarkable cures
effectedby Warner’s Safe Cure, so I bought two bottles of that medicine, and a vial of Warners Safe
Pills, taking the Safe Cure regularly, and one pill on going to bed. I could feel
almost immediately that there was a change for the better taking place mmy system. Before I had.
finTshedThTsecond bottle I was free from pain and dizzy spells and m good health. I have heard of
many others who have taken Warner’s Safe Cure with good result.
URIC ACID.—The presence of this acid in the blood is the cause of people suffering from
Rheumatism Gout, Neuralgia, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica, Gravel, and Bladder Troubles. I
accumulation of uric acid in the blood is a certain indication that the kidneys are acting mefficien y.
Warner’s Safe Cure acts specifically upon the kidneys, and invariably restores those- vital g.
health and activity, when all suffering due to uric acid poisoning ceases. „ oQO(w1 .
A simple test to make as to the condition of the kidneys is to put some of the urine passed tne
first thing in the morning, into a bottle or covered glass, and let it stand until next mornn g.
then cloudy, or if it contains a sediment like brick-dust, or if particles float about m.it, or_it i
unhatural color, the kidneys are not healthy, and no time should be lost m commencing to take
Warneffs Safe Cure.
Tobacco instructor Neville, of Queensland,
told the Tariff Commission some valuable facts at
Brisbane as to the tobacco industry :
The effect of the Commonwealth duties had been to
increase the consumption of the imported tobacco, and
to diminish correspondingly the local article. Almost
the whole of the tobacco admitted to the Commonwealth
under the tariff as unmanufactured was in reality an
article which had gone through the first stages of manu-
facture . . Under the Queensland tariff, the consump-
tion of locally-grown tobacco had increased m six years
hv 338 per cent., and at the end of the period referred to
4(5 ner cent, of the tobacco consumed in the State was
!... own 0 wn in Queensland. Analyses showed that the sods in
certain districts of Queensland were identical with those
of the United States. Queensland was capable of pro-
ducing- vo 000,0001 b. of leaf annually. If properly handled
the industry would at least yield one-half the leaf con-
sumed by Australia.
Wilson, who pleads the employers' side of
the case in the W.A. Arbitration Court, had liis
nerves jarred somewhat during a recent mining
wages cases. “ What,” he asked one of the work-
men’s witnesses, “ were you before you became a
miner?” “A draper, like you were befo e you
got'this job,” was the reply. The cross-examina-
tion of that witness stopped with a jolt there and
then.
An Australian squatter, evidently a mem-
ber of the great Stinking Fish party, sold recently
to an English buyer a high-priced lot of wool; the
first bale of which, upon being opened up at Brad-
ford, England, was found to contain a stone
weighing many pounds. The manufacturer
promptly rejected the consignment, which thus
falls upon the hands of the original buyer, who in
consequence probably says things about the Labor
party.
Apropos Federal capitals. Washington,
as the capital of the United States, was a matter
of compromise. Ottawa, as the capital of Canada,
was chosen nominally by Queen Victoria. The
original capital of Maoriland was Russell (Bay of
Islands); then it was shifted to Auckland, and,
finally, in 18G5, a committee consisting of three
(Joseph Docker, M.L.C., of N.S.W., Speaker
Francis Murphy, of Victoria, and Mr. R. C.
Gunn, of Tasmania) selected Wellington as 1 the
capital for all time.
The Fullerton memorial church, just com-
pleted in Surry Hills, Sydney, was built out of
part of the moneys paid by Government for the
site of the old Fullerton church at the Hay-
market. The Government made a gift of the
original site to Fullerton for religious purposes far
away back in 1838, and after sixty years bought
the land back, giving, in effect, another site and
another church and £6OOO cash besides to the
Presbyterian Assembly. That’s how the church
gets ahead of the State every time.
A complaint with some truth behind it: —
The Civil Service members of the Victorian Assembly
are absurdly unsatisfactory persons. Lately “ Bob ”
Solly informed a crowd of rural democrats that he had
travelled all over the world, but had “ never seen a worse
state of pauperism than existed in Melbourne.” By such
wild exaggerations the demand for practical Socialism is
brought into ridicule. Solly also remarked that, although
he had been doing well enough as a bootmaker in a
factory, he was enjoying a much better job as a member
of Parliament—just the sort of candid remark which en-
encourages Fatman to snort at all Labor members as
“ fellows looking for a billet.” There’s too much “ Bob ”
about Mr. Solly ; too much Tom, Dick and Harry about
all representatives of the Labor vote. They should at
least stand on their legislative dignity like John Burns,
who has contrived to avoid being popularly known as
“ Jack.” A man may stand on his own dignity without
appearing to ape the vainglorious personification of im-
portance who puts a pedestal on his dignity, and stands
upon that with his stummick proudly protruded into
space.
A correspondent supplies some notes about
a policeman with a gruesome career :
Melbourne coroner's orderly Davidson has relinquished
the post after nearly 20 years’ service, to take up duty as
sub-inspector of police. He succeeded senior-constable
Hoey in the orderlyship in 1886, when the morgue was a
ramshackle barn standing on the present site of the fish
markets, near the Australian wharf, and bodies had to be
covered with wire cages to protect them from rats. In
1887 the advent of five bodies from the wrecked Cheviot,
and, a few months later, of seven from the Windsor
railway accident, suggested to the authorities that the
old building could easily be overcrowded, and they
hurried along the present one, completed in 1888. Mr.
Davidson was officially connected with six coroners, viz.,
Dr. Youl, D. M. Daly, Dr. Neild, Dickson (P.M.), Morrison
(now Under-Sec.), and present officer Chandler. He esti-
mates thftt about 16,000 bodies have come under his
official eye, upon 6808 of which inquests were held. The
idea of preserving the head of the victim of the notorious
boot-box tragedy in 1898 was his, and the bodies of
Deeming and many other executed criminals are entered
up on his list. He says that he knew of only one case of
wrong identification—that in which a body was identified
as ex-constable Svenson’s by the latter’s sisters and several
intimate friends. Svenson turned up alive later on.
Davidson has a notion that husbands sometimes fail to
identify the bodies of their wives to avoid funeral ex-
penses. A Dr. Youl yarn Woman in black accosting
the genial coroner—“ Ye’re inquestin’ Denny O’Brien,
aren’t ye?” “Yes, madam.” “Then, I’m his sorrowin’
widder. He swallowed a half-a-sovrin onst. If ye find
it ye can keep two-and-sixpence for yerself.”
“ 0.P.” discourses upon the expansion of
the empire:—
When John Bull sees the country he wants, he sends a
“ scientific expedition,” with bottles and things to put
grubs in. But he doesn’t want the grubs ;he only wants
the country. Sometimes he takes the bottles with beer
in, too, and the natives like the beer. The natives don’t
know what it is that has come, and they get frightened
and climb up the trees. Then the expedition sings out
friendly, and the natives come down out of the trees.
They don’t know what the expedition has sung out, but
they know it is friendly. They come round in a
ring and look at the expedition. And the expe-
dition is verv polite. It takes off its hat, and
drops the bottles with the grubs in, and shakes hands
with the king. Then the natives know it is all right, and
thev come close, and look in the bottles, and smell the
clothes of the expedition, and jabber at it. And the ex-
pedition smiles all the time. Then the expedition gives
the king some tin tags off the tobacco and some stoppers
from the lemonade bottles, and he bucks in the air like
the lieutenant in the Salvation Army. The expedition
goes out after the grubs and runs down the locusts so as
the natives won’t be suspicious. And the natives follow
the expedition, and laugh when it chases the locusts and
bottles them. But the expedition is winking at itself all
the time, and looking for the gold, and seeing what kind
of land it is to grow things. When the expedition has
had a good look over the country it comes back to the
coast making a frightful noise, and all the natives come
out to see what it is. It is the locusts in the bottles. And
when the scientific men see the captain of the ship they
want to go back home in he says he can’t stand that noise,
and he won’t have them. But then they wink at him too,
and he says “ Alright.” Then they throw the locusts over-
board, and go home, and tell John Bull all about the coun-
try. “Is there any diamonds or gold there?” says John.
“Yes,” says the expedition, “big as potatoes.” “Cripes!”
says John. So he gets a lot of missionaries and tells them
the biackfellows with the gold and diamonds are in a
terrible state of “spiritual darkness,” and sends the
missionaries to shift some of the darkness. They shake
hands with all the biackfellows, and call them brother, and
try to shovel away the spiritual gloom, and the black-
feilow is astonished. Then the missionary wants the
blackfellow to wear trousers, and gives him some, but
they fall down sudden when he is running, and
the poor blackfellow falls down too. He is wild
with the missionary, and boils him for supper.
When John Bull hears about the poor missionary he
sends a “ punitive expedition,” which is different to the
“ scientific ” one, and he proclaims a “suzerainty” over
the country, which means he shook it, but it doesn’t look
that way. Then the poor natives are sorry. They
thought it was funny about the locusts at the start, but
they can make it out quite easy now. Some more of
John Bull’s men come, and give the tobacco tags and the
glass marbles for elephants’ teeth and gold and diamonds.
And some bring machinery, and start to dig and build
houses. Then the blackfellow, who has been learning all
the time, thinks it is best to hunt away John Bull’s
men or to kill them before they shake everything, but
just about then John says to the biackfellows that the
other biackfellows, which live further up the country,
have been talking about them. “ You make them prove
it,” says he. So the two lots of biackfellows start to
fight, and while they are busy doing that John takes the
best land, and gets some more guns in quick. And when
the fight is over there are not many biackfellows left to
chase anybody away, and they haven’t made each other
prove anything. John is all right then, and he talks
kind to the biackfellows, and says the white man is their
brother. But if the black man says that to the white one,
the white man hits him so sudden that you would never
know the difference.
According to Outtrim, M.L.A. (Vic.), who
was a member of the Shiels Cabinet, the Premier
of that Administration was offered the position of
Chief Justice before it was given to Madden.
Had Shiels accepted, he would have been iff the
unique position of a Chief Justice who had never
held a brief in any of the courts of the State. _ By
the way, there is something humorous in the idea
of Premier Shiels offering himself the Chief Jus-
ticeship and then nobly refusing it, and saying he
would stick to his present job and save the coun-
try.
An electoral registrar in Victoria refused
an old-age pensioner his State elector’s right
lately, saying he was barred by the eleemosynary
relief clause of the Victorian Act. Instructions
from the Chief Electoral Inspector promptly put
his jack-in-office straight, but he is only one of
many who regard the pension as a “charity”
instead of being just as much a right as any other
State pension—say that of an old, superannuated
Supreme Court Judge.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATI
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
ADELAIDE G. N. HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S.A., August 12— ... 100,000 at 5/2 each.
NOW OPEN METROPOLITAN' STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 11 _ ... 100,000 at 5/2 each.
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., October 21 ... ... ... ... 100,000 at 5/2 each.
\ 100,000 at 5/2, 100,000 at 10/4, and Special
/ (drawn morning, day of race) 100,000 at 5/2 each.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., November 7-
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY /, 1905 f the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
OS* Ticket , and 4d. on each fOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the. TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia. °
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booicing Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
'P--
rn ,ii iirnn 11, nrnui ,i, iTirim in iiinunrimm
■
.
KEEP YOUR.
BILLS DOWN
f)
a
.
FROM
"By
Purchasing
YOUR CLOTHING
Cincoln, Stuart
$ Co.
Ctd.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
No Matter Where
you live and with no more
trouble than the writing of
a letter you can through
the Post Office bring our
Warehouse to your door.
FAMOUS
Two Guinea
(TO MEASURE) Suits
Write for Patterns and
Self-measure FORMS.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
THEE FAMOUS RE3MEEOY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
OF COUGHS l
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—ln 1898, I was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling: representative for a mercantile
house. Having: contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man, and used all kinds of chemists’
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was about done for,
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suffocate a dozen times a-day, suffering, intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured me.
I took another bottle away from the city with me, and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
Tweed River—three persons cured by yOur valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and .travelled
about 10,000 miles since my. illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.— l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
- THUS. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here,
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia, I was
induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles,
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and down a vertical shaft without any
feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that f have ever taken has afforded me such relief as your
Bronchitis Cure. —Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
CONGESTION OF THE LUNGS.
A BAD CASE QUICKLY AND COMPLETELY CURED
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Sir, —Will you please send me some medicine for the
following illness A fortnight ago I had Influenza, and
it settled on the lungs. 1 now have congestion of the
lungs ; the doctor says so, but his treatment has not done
me any good. My breathing is short, and I have a shore
cough and a frothy-white spit; my sides are sore to
the touch, and painful. It hurts me to lie down. I
am very weak, and I perspire a lot at night, and my body
and lungs feel burning. lam getting worse. I feel
worse to-day. Please post the necessary medicine to
Sorrento, and I will send you the money, and oblige,
M. J. BOXELL,
Relieving Postmistress, Sorrento, Victoria.
The treatment sent effected a complete cure, as the
following letter testifies :
Mr. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Many thanks for the medicine. I herewith
enclose postal note in payment. lam much obliged to
you for sending the medicine so promptly. It has done
me a lot of good; in fact, I have quite recovered.
M. J. BOXELL.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam sure
there are a great many people out this way that if they
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully,
J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Dear Sir,—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and can’t be licked.—Yours sincerely,
“W. TREMELLEN,
“ Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA— A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “ After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he states : —“ lam
keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthma.”
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who, during the last few years, has been repeatedly
working for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant,
Colli ns-street,-and the effect that it had was so marked
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
to others.
We are glad, to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had a very bad cough, so I
bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three days.
My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad cough
for the past twelve months, then used the remaining half
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years.
You are at liberty to use this letter in any way you
please.—Yours respectfully, CI-lAS. WOOTON,
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I feel in duty bound to express
my gratitude first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
arid Asthma Cure, next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. My wife
being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gUve immediate relief, and, con-
tinuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. My
wife and I recommend it to all our acquaintances who
suffer with the same. You Can use this letter for publi-
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEN,
Elsternwick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—Accept my testimony to the success of your
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February in Mel-
bourne, and was recommended b3’ a friend to try your
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immense relief,
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished.
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottles of it, as
I would not like to be without so wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KTLMARTIN,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch depot- office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


Good as ever!
SUNLIGHT SOAP
for the laundry.
MONKEY BRAND
FOR RENOVATING PAINT.
Visitors to the Old Cotifitry
BAILEYS
-OVAL f» Ar
%
GLOUCESTER ROAD ,
SOUTH ME/VS/NGTON,
EO/VDOSV.S.W.
THE NEW LOUNGE: ONE OF THE FINEST IN LONDON
Self-corvbairved suites.
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
COLD
CHE
AND
SORE
THROAT.
ZAM-BUK Proved Invaluable
“ T AM writing to tell you the benefit
I received from your Zam-Buk,”
writes Mr. S. Petty, of Bringelby,
near Liverpool, N.S.W. “ Two weeks ago I
contracted a severe cold in the throat and
chest, through contact with the cold air after
oyer-heating myself at work. I was advised
to rub my chest and throat with
Zam-Buk. This I did, with the
astonishing result that next morn-
ing my cold had almost disap-
peared. A few more applica-
tions completely drove it out of
my system. There is no doubt
about it, Zam-Buk is invalu-
able for colds, and I have also
found it a perfect healer in cases
of cuts and scratches.”
&
/&
every home needs zam-buk.
/.am BUK is a PROVED CURE for PILES, ECZEMA, BOILS, RUNNING
SORES SORE LEGS RINGWORM. RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
eto ß A S s for STRAINED > MUSCLES and
BUK, rubbed well into the parts affected l® Asi a
BALM for CUTS, BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS* SORE THROAT,
Gfujv OHEST CHAPPED HANDS. CHILBLAINS, and SORE FEEI, ZAM-
SORL CHJiSi, OilAl INVALUABLE . Obtainable from all Medicine
Vendors at 1/0, or 3/6 FAMILY SIZE (containing nearly four
times the quan-
tity), or from
The Zam-Bdk
Co., 39 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
m
RUB IT IN
When the Moon was in Eclipse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was night upon the grey downs,
And the moon was near eclipse
As they lay beside the sheep ;
One, a-babbling in his dreaming
Of white arms and clinging lips,
Stirred and muttered in his sleep.
And the other crouched and listened
To the black swans in their flight,
And the tinkling of the team—
As a shadow leaned across him
That was blacker than the night,
Did it break the sleeper’s dream?
“ Waken, Una ! Raise the window !
. Let me climb into your nest! ”
Thus he muttered as he slept,
“Nestle closer, dear one, closer !
With your breast warm on my breast.”
And the shadow nearer crept.
“ What of bonds and creeds and symbols ?
And the name words and the rite—
They are not for us, mine own !
See above the looming grey downs,
Sits our priest, the cross of white;
And athwart your window thrown
“The moon-shine and shadow mingle—
Even as your soul and mine.”
So he murmured in his sleep.
“ Like a fair and folded flower,
Drooping as your warm limbs twine,
And your arms about me creep;
“Love can know no law but loving—
Let them curse with Book and Bell,
As I swoon upon your lips!
In the glory of my heaven, 1
While their lying mummers tell ”
And the moon was in eclipse.
One was strong with strength of hatred,
One with dazed and maddened brain :
The low moon hung, shadow-spanned,
And the night was dark as passion,
And the wind was cold as pain,
As it moaned above the sand.
Bob, the collie, leaped and listened :
If the silly things would rove,
Then goodbye to peaceful sleep,
And he panted through the darkness,
As he trotted round the drove —
There was peace among the sheep.
As the moon and shadow parted,
Dawn, the stealthy tracker, came,
Gained upon him as he crept;
Till he leaned above her bedside,
Calling harshly on her name—
Strange, how heavily she slept!
Freshly through the little window
The keen, early wind blew in,
And a blurred and blotted sheet,
The last witness of her falsehood,
And the seal upon her sin,
Fell and fluttered at his feet:
“ Can you hear me, my beloved ?
Where the sloping headland dips
With its tussocked greys and browns,
1 can hear the wild swans crying,
And the moon is near eclipse
High above the looming downs.
“ And my heart is strange to-night, dear,
How it flutters and is still!
But it may be better soon ;
And a subtle, deadly menace
Seems to hold me like a chill —
’Tis the failing of the moon ! ”
Never more for clasp of passion,
Never more for man’s desire !
Slow he lifted up her hand,
And a ray, blue as her eye flash,
Glittered from a pale sapphire
On her finger, jewel-spanned.
It was day upon the grey downs,
And the early sunshine fell,
As he muttered with white lips :
“You have met your lover, Una;
For you followed him to hell
When the moon was in eclipse ! ”
n.s.w.
LOLA RIDGE.
Bill’s Wife.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
air for miles around was blue and
heavy, and the rays of the hot, January
sun smote through the smoke like sword-
blades. For many days there had been fires in
the forest. In the close, oppressive evenings, and
through the torrid nights, could be heard the
crackle of burning timber and the crash of giant
trees that fell, bitten through by teeth of flame.
With every crash new fires started, for the burn-
ing trees in their fall tore through masses of
scorched undergrowth and saplings tindered ready
for lighting by the heat, which seemed to turn the
whole forest into one great oven. Tales of settlers
who had been burnt out were brought to the town-
ship at almost every hour of the day.
* * * *
Upon a lonely clearing high up on the hillside
a pretty little woman was battling all alone with
the enemy. The bush fire raged on all sides of
the selection, but there had not been a soul to help
her except a nine-year-old daughter, who had
become temporarily blinded with the smoke.
For thirty-six hours she had not slept nor taken
her clothes off. Axe in hand, she had gone round
the outside of the small, fenced paddock, in the
midst of which stood the little shingle cottage,
and had chopped down every sapling that looked
likely to blaze. The big trees she could not
manage ; and there were four or five monster red-
gums that, if they got alight, and fell towards the
house, must inevitably burn her out. She watched
them, and tried to suppress every spark that fell.
There were two baby boys inside the cottage,
with a little girl of five in charge of them. It was
the house tnat she was fighting for—fighting
with a courage that never faltered, with a nerve
that never llinched. Her eyes were red and sore
with watching and smoke and heat, but her will
was such that she would not for an instant own to
herself that she was tired.
A man rode along the rough corduroy road, up
the hill, on horseback. He carried an axe over
his shoulder, wore a policeman’s old leather
helmet on his head, and had some wet bagging
tied round his legs, arms, and shoulders. There
was also wet bagging tied round the legs of his
nag. A quaint, shaggy, Don Quixote-ish figure he
looked. He had been sent along by the shire
engineer to clear the track of fallen trees, so that
the mail coach might pass in safety. The little
woman on the selection put down her axe, pushed
into place the wisps of brown hair that had
become disarranged, and smoothed her clothes.
She was a very neat woman at all times. She
gave the horseman a smile of recognition, and he
called out:
“Mornin’, Mrs. Gascoigne.”
‘‘Mornin’, Mr. Atkins.”
“ Yer ’ard at it, I see.”
“Yes, have to be these times.” She spoke
quite cheerfully,
“ Where’s Bill ? ”
The question was a natural one, but it caused
her some embarrassment. “Well,” she said, hesi-
tatingly, “Bill ain’t here. I wonder you didn’t
see him on the road.”
“What! you’aven’t been doin’ all this fireman
work alone, ’ave yer ? ”
“Oh, yes, Mr. Atkins. I managed it all right,
except for a little help Tilly gave me; but the
poor child got almost blinded by the smoke.” She.
described how she had beaten out the falling
sparks and flakes of burning bark with woollen
mats soaked in water, had chopped down under-
growth, and kept constant watch for two nights
and a day.
“Well, you are a good ’un, Mrs. Gascoigne.
I’d be glad to stay and ’elp yer a bit, but I
dussn’t. I’m afraid there’s bin some big burnin’
further on, and I must make the track clear for
the coach.”
“Oh, don’t you bother, thank you, Mr. Atkins.
I’ll pull through.”
“ But what about Bill ? Doesn’t he know ? ”
“Oh —Bill —well, Bill knows I shall be all
right. He promised Jack Carmidy to give the
missis a hand if anything went wrong, when Jack
went away to the west. I suppose the fire has
been pretty bad down that way.”
“Not so bad yet, but it will be if this wind
keeps up. Well, good mornin’, and good luck.”
Atkins rode along, muttering curses through his
thick beard. “ Bill Gascoigne’s a darned skunk,”
he said to himself, “leaving that little woman to
battle alone, while he’s helping that yellow-haired
Carmidy woman. Helping her ! My oath ! I
know.”
Mrs. Gascoigne sat down on a log by the fence,
and gave her byes a rub. She was not crying ;
she could not have cried. But she thought. Bill
had told her that he had promised Carmidy to
give a hand if anything went wrong down at his
place in his absence. She had made no comment.
Perhaps Carmidy had asked him ; perhaps he
hadn’t. Anyway, Bill had been there often, and
had stayed late. She knew Bill, and her instinct
summed up the situation.
A couple of hours later the coach came along.
Mrs. Gascoigne always put on a clean white apron
when she went out to look at the coach. It was a
point of pride with her to be neat. Neatness was
as much a part of her nature as industry. Even
on this morning she snatched a few moments from
her anxious labor to make herself “clean and
tidy.” The driver called out “How’s things?”
Mrs. Gascoigne replied cheerily that they were
all right.
“You’ve ’ad it ’ot,” he said, looking at the
blackened trees round about.
“ Yes,” she replied, “ but we’ve kept it off the
house. There’s not even a fence burnt.”
“ Ah, you must ’ave worked ’ard—you and Bill.”
He looked at her closely when she spoke, but
she only answered “ Yes.”
He was not satisfied, and queried: “Bill in-
side?”
“ Not just now.”
He handed to her a parcel he had brought, and
said: “Suppose you know that Carmidy’s come
back from the west? ”
She dug her finger-nails deep into her palms, but
•said steadily: “ No, has he ? ”
“Yes, he’s in Geelong. He’ll be coming up to-
morrow, I believe. Ah, well, I’m glad you’ve got
off so lightly. Good day.” The coach rattled
along. “Did you ’ear what she said about ’er
’usband?” said the driver to the box-seat pas-
senger ; “’e ain’t inside ‘ just now.’ No; not ’e ;
Bill’s got another game on.”
“Do you mean to say,” remarked the passenger,
who was a stout, domesticated man, and a stern
critic of the improprieties ot others, “that the
woman’s husband has left her alone in the house
with a fire raging all around her ? ”
“That’s what’e’s done.” He related immoral
circumstances concerning Bill, and the box-seat
passenger said “ Disgraceful! disgraceful! ” He
puffed out his cheeks and added that he had
never heard of such a thing.
Once more Mrs. Gascoigne sat down and
thought. She had an over-wrought, trembling
feeling that something was going to happen.
* * * *
Carmidy’s selection was four miles down the hill
from Gascoigne’s, and about half-a-mile from the
coach-road. Hitherto this part of the forest had
escaped the fire. But as night came on the wind
shifted a few points. The flames leapt from tree
to tree. Sometimes there was a roar from the
very heart of a giant gum trunk, and presently
there would be a report like the explosion of a
gun, and a tongue of flame would shoot from the
top, and a battery of sparks would assault the
darkness. The constant crackling sounded as
though the fire had teeth, and were gorging itself on
timber.
A woman seized the shoulders of a man who lay
on the bed. “Bill,” she half-screamed in his ear,
“ did you hear that ? ”
“ All right, Kate, I’ll get up,” he muttered, half-
asleep.
“It isn’t Kate, you fool,” she cried m terror.
“ Get up ; I’m sure the fire is on us.”
He woke up with a start, and as he opened his
eyes he saw through the window-blind the scarlet
glow of flame and the red radiance of a thousand
sparks, which the masterful wind blew like a
battalion of fiends, to kindle where they fell.
“It’s here,” the woman gasped. “What shall
Ido ? Oh, God, save me. I thought we were
safe. Oh, what shall Ido ? ”
The man, without a word, sprang, from the bed.
In less than a minute he was outside the door, axe
in hand. The woman, half paralysed with fright,
could scarcely move, but sat staring at the red-
clotted darkness with her grey eyes agape. A
mass of yellow hair lay around her white fleshy
shoulders. .
The sparks came principally from a burning
tree, about 50 yards from the pack of the house.
The woman on the bed heard the sharp ring of a
swiftly swung axe for a few moments. Then
there was nothing to be heard but a roaring,
crackling, crashing—an infernal noise with *n
infernal heat. She stood up and listened, her hand
to her ear. Her face was grey, and pulled by
fear to a gaping length. Her eyes yawned on a
vacancy reddened in the distance. Did she hear
aery? No ; only the breaking of branches. Her
limbs—heavy white limbs—would scarcely move,
so terrified was she. But she huddled some
coats around her, went to the door, and looked
out. “Bill!” Not a sound, except the crackling,
The large tree lay on the ground. It had fallen
away from the house, otherwise the building
would have been already ablaze. “ Bill! ” louder
than before. “ Bill! ” in a maddened scream,
The wood crackled, crackled, crackled, and the
smoke was overpoweiing. Bill did not answer.
With a burning red-gum branch across his spine
he lay, and never even groaned.
Four miles away Mrs. Gascoigne sat and watched
a red glow in the sky, and saw a few sparks float
athwart the stars. She might have gone to bed,
as there was now little danger of the fire doing any
damage in her neighborhood. But she felt that
she could not sleep. She was thinking—thinking,
Shortly before dawn the rain began to drizzle,
Atkins galloped up to the clearing. He was a
kind-hearted man, but the story had to be told,
and he got it over quickly. She clasped her knees
and rocked herself for a few moments, but she
could not cry. Instead, she said, “ Thank you for
coming to tell me. I think I’ll take a little sleep
before they bring him home.”
Then she crept into the house—very softly, so
as not to awaken the children—and slept,
D. BOUVERIE.


“THE WINTER IS AT HAND!”
When clouds appear, wise men put on their cloaks;
When great leaves fall, the winter is at hand ;
When the sun sets, who doth not look for night?— (Richaed 111,, ii., 3).
Nature never takes us by surprise ; she always gives a clear signal when change or danger is near. A sharp pain or dull
ache in the back is Nature's warning of Kidney Disease. Is it any wonder that the sufferer from Kidney Disease is short-
tempered and irritable, nervous and despondent P His back
gives him no peace, day and night, the least change of the
weather tells on him, and he is afraid to venture outside the
door if it’s damp or cold, he can’t stoop, can’t walk far. Women
with Kidney Trouble are just the same; they imagine them-
selves to be suffering from all kinds of “ women’s complaints.”
They have no patience with the little ones, are easily annoyed,
and always tired.
During the winter months you are more likely to get colds.
And colds very often affect the Kidneys ; therefore, at the first
sign of backache, or any other symptom of kidney derangement,
take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, the special kidney and
bladder medicine for men and women. Bead the following
experience of a Sydney woman :
“ When Cold Weather Set in the Pain was Dreadful
Backache Caused by a Heavy Cold. Cured to Stay Cured.
Mrs. Kate Helmka, 27 Ada-street, Ultimo, this city, says:—“About thirteen years
ago I contracted a cold, which flew to the small of my back, and seemed to affect my
kidneys. My back was real lame, and when cold weather set in the pain used to be dread-
ful. When I worked the sewing-machine my back ached more than ever, and I could
never stay at it for any length of time. Having a large family to sew for made it very
hard for me. I heard about Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and obtained a supply.
Relief came almost immediately I started to use them, and now my cure is perfect. lam
pleased to recommend these pills to all kidney sufferers.”
The above statement was made some time ago. Mrs. Helmka now states :
“ Although it is a year or more ago since I recommended Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
I still have the same good opinion of this medicine. It is a splendid remedy for weak and
aching backs and disordered kidneys. I’ve had no return of my trouble. I have recom-
mended these pills to many people, and shall always be pleased to do so.”
Of all the ways a "cold” affects the system no
way Is so dangerous as cold on the kidneys.
“Every Picture Tells
a Story.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2/9 per box (6 boxes* 15/3), or will be posted
on receipt of price by FOBTER-McCI.ELL.AN
CO., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
The Dance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE music sobbed
And the dancers swung—
Whispering feet
Made rhythmic beat
That pulsed and throbbed
While a perfume clung—
Icent of roses—roses rare,
lose of lips and raven hair.
The music swelled
With a burst of sound—
Through casement-bar
It echoed far,
And its rapture held
Us from the ground,
Until it died as the sea-waves do,
vVith a passionate call—my call to you.
There were roses red
In your fragrant hair,
At your bosom white
They glowed that night.
And you held your head
With a royal air,
Proud in a beauty that thrilled like wine,
But your eyes—your eyes laughed into mine.
Why is the song
Of the violin
So filled with woe ?
I do not know.
Yet if Love be wrong,
Then I would sin
Just for the joy of your wondrous charm,
And your lissome grace on my yielding arm.
Rhythmical
Were the moving feet.
As the waltz went on
Your grey eyes shone.
And whimsical
And passing sweet
Were my lady’s moods as we swayed and swung
To the passionate songs the fiddles sung.
Black as the night
Was your gown of laoe.
Such dazzling charm
On shoulder and arm.
And there was a light
In your up-turned face
That held my eyes in a magic thrall,
While thrilling and low came the music’s call.
Beauty of lips
And grace of limb—
Wondrous charm
Of throat and arm—•
Music that grips
Till the senses swim !
fet sweeter than these, though they thrilled like
wine,
Was the soul in your eyes that yearned to mine.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
In Buenos Ayres.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JAMES M‘GREGOR FINLAND, son of
James M‘Gregor Finland of that ilk in
Scotland, of the great coal mines of Val-
divia in Chile, educated at the grey old University
of Edinburgh, inheritor of his father’s estates,
master of half-a dozen languages, and—son of a
Chilian mother. He had the look of it in the
flattened Indian face. He had the way of it in his
great brute strength, his magnificent physique,
and, above all, English-taught as he was, in his
typical South American, South European dis-
regard of English ways of decency.
I knew him very well. We stayed at the same
house. We sat at the same table. More than all,
we spoke English where everyone else spoke some-
thing else—Spanish, French, Italian, German,
Dutch, or Danish. As for his religion—-God
knows.
I never forgot the Indian in him. and, truth to
tell, he never let one forget it. Yet somehow I
liked the man in spite of myself and my English
up-bringing. There was about him an air of
strength, of virility, that attracted one, especially
a woman—a capacity for immediate action, action
absolutely devoid of the element of the uncertain,
that drew admiration and attention in spite
of a constant under-current of repulsion. One
looked at his strong, white teeth and felt strength.
One heard him speak of his country, and dreamed
patriots. “My country, Chile!” he would say,
and as he said it the snaky eye would deepen and
flash under the depressed Indian eyebone, the
head thrown up with all the pride of a Highlander
among Lowlanders. “ My country is Chile, and
I am Chileno,” and so saying, all was said.
Sometimes he would talk of his sister (he had
■only the one). Of his mother he never spoke—
perhaps it was the Highland bloou, perhaps it
was that he had loved her. Of his father he
talked occasionally, with an undercurrent of dis-
like constantly breaking out in the voice. From
other sources I learned that his mother had been
very wealthy. In fact, the mines which consti-
tuted most of his wealth had been hers. She had
belonged to the highest class of society in Chile,
was well-educated (from a Spanish point of view),
beautiful, accomplished, and fascinating as only
Spanish grace grafted on virility can be. In a
word, she charmed all the senses, {esthetic and
physical alike. Hard and proud to a degree, the
father had been bewitched. He courted her. He
married her.
After marriage, passion died. He never forgave
himself for having married a Chilian. When his
son was born, he never forgave him his Chilian
mother —which was hard on the boy.
As for Don Jaime, he gave back hate for hate.
He grew up as one might expect, wild, reckless,
half-savage. The combined physique of the High-
lander and the Indian drove him back to the
excesses of primitive man. Also, it kept him
strong in spite of himself.
While yet a boy, his father had to send him to
Edinburgh— to tame him. A couple of years after
he came home, he had to shut the door in his face
for his credit and his daughter’s sake. Then
Don Jaime disappeared, and for years no one
knew where he was; whether he was dead or
whether he was alive.
His mother died. A year or two later his father
was shot, during a riot at the mines. Then his
sister communicated with her own and the neigh-
boring Governments, they in turn with the Jefes
and Cortusarios throughout the different countries,
and in due time, in fur and in wool, Don Jaime
came home from the snow and the ce, the cold
a„d the unspeakable wictaW of Patagonia.
* * . * *
Ihe first time we were in Buenos Ayres, the
thing that struck us most (that is of the minor
things) was the iron-barred windows, and the
barred or iron-studded doors or gateways into
the patios (no private dwelling opened directly
upon the street) from which one entered the
house, h.very street window had bars half an
inch thick, suggesting nothing so much as gaols
or private lunatic asylunis, and looking almost
grotesque in combination with stuccoed or
marbetronts. I he next persistent and remark-
a e t ung was the flattish roofs, each with an
ex raoulinanly strong parapet of stone or brick,
It was by no mean 3 decorative; it was too
massive and the slits and loopholes top small for
ia . e learned the use of these things later.
Crimes of violence are common in b. America
rgen ina averages three murders a day, most of
which are committed during the recurrent periodl-
cal three days of the assassin s wind viento de
Wmd haVmg a hornble effect on
.nerves. .
h l r 0 m ?T r f re ln th ?
country, and you can shoot from behind a parapet
P f Brfe Ai Safe i ty V ° ne
t y v . i l , If street the shot came
SiMSf 11 avhich house-besides, parapet
vi rSv’ W £ oS® t ba f re - footed man
SffilSS m - th ‘ Ck °'
* *
The last time we were in Buenos Ayres—the
time when we met Don Jaime—the country from
end to end, from Argentine Atlantic to Chilian
Pacific, was in a state of tumult over the Chilian-
Argentine boundary question. Don Jaime was
over in the Atlantic city on business, but owing
to the state of affairs could get nothing done,
Indeed, his life was not safe in the streets . . .
and . . . there was always the parapet, you know,
He was too big a man to be mistaken for an
Argentine, who is a small, “neat” man, leaning
more to the Spanish type than does the Chilian,
Moreover he was too wealthy a man not to be
known, and too daring to keep quiet.
The consequence of his enforced inactivity was
that his temper became atrocious; the flattened
eye-bone, with the gleam of white, and the tawny
eye under it, looking daily more and more vicious,
“ What will you do if war breaks out while you
are here ? ” I asked, one evening. It was a foolish
question, but the tension of the times bred folly.
He answered without looking at me. “I will
go out and cut Argentine throats till my own is
cut,” he said, brutally.
I looked at him, resentment drowned in a feel-
ing of sympathy for unlimited strength tied down,
He seemed strangely restless, pacing up and
down like a caged panther. Suddenly he stopped,
I made as though to speak.
“Hush !” he said abruptly, his head bent for-
ward, every muscle tense, listening and hearing as
only an Indian can.
Something of his condition of nervous tension
communicated itself to me. I listened, too,
strained up to the breaking point, expecting I
knew not what, ready to fear all things; and
though I heard nothing, the room seemed full of
impalpitant breathing.
“What is it?” I cried at last, unable to keep
sil f" t * “ For God’s sake, what is the matter ? ”
, In tbe clty he muttered half-unconsci-
°T* y ' ,• , , .•.
l him bytbB a ™ w?- 0 *? t, »
“ Speak ' , mai ’ speak ! ,^ hat S ’tt J ?
away. The sweat stood in drops on his forehead,
\ uii very li ps were white,
“There is a stir in the town,” he said at last,
straightening his shoulders. And then more
clearly, “I must go out and see what it means.”
At the moment my husband entered the room,
“There is a rocket up from the office of La
Prensa,” he said hastily.
At the same moment, “Boom!” The sound
came ( n a t the doors and windows,
“Uno!” said Filomena, behind me. I looked
roull d. Everyone seemed to have come into the
room . The light glared in on white faces, the
stress of the time throbbing out like heart-beats.
“Boom 1”
« /> JS ,»' faltered the Spanish woman.
What terrible news had the great newspaper
got hold of? Two rockets had gone up. Would
there be three? Was it the air that whispered
<< war ”9
j n th' e silent room where we stood we could
already hear the tumult of a city pouring out of
doors. I looked for Don Jaime, but even as I
looked I knew he was gone-and then-
“ Boom ’”
“Trcsf said someone under his breath. We
looked at one another, each with eyes gone into
the back of the head . The ho use seemed
smothering; somebody flung open the door. We
™>hed 0/ God ! tile coofair, how it struck on
brow and cheek.
Down the street came the clatter of sabres
rattling out over the thunder of hoofs,
“Los soldados!” cried tbe multitude,
Down Calle San Juan, citywards, they galloped,
the crowd before them backing into patios and
houses like chaff before the wind, closing in again,
in its eagerness, behind the very hoofs of the
horses. Trains shot by without stopping. Men
sprang at them as they passed, and fell spinning
back for want of an inch of foothold. And above
it all was the infernal shriek of the sirens, the
bellowing of the hooter, and the ghastly glare of
the rockets as news and news came in to the dif-
ferent newspaper offices,
* * * *
Was it war? No, it was not war. At least,
not yet.
Everyone knows of that terrible time when the
negotiations between Argentina and Chile, “on”
one day, “off” the next, hung fire for week after
week, until people almost went mad of suspense,
The time when Argentina called up her legions,
and Italy promised her help, while Chile bought
warships and said, “ We are the British of South
America. . . . We stand alone,” one hardly knew
which country to be proudest of, or whose women
to weep most with. No, it was not war, though
why it was not war no man can tell. But it was
an attack on the Chilian Consulate. . . . You
remember reading of it in the papers.
And Don Jaime—James McGregor Finland, of
that ilk in Scotland, of the coalfields of Valdivia
in Chile, and son of a Chilian mother, saw it. . .
and seeing, all Chile rose in his blood,
And, in the morning, they found him in the
morgue, as he lay among a row of Argentines . . .
found him with his throat cut, his fingers strings
of bones, from which tbe flesh hung in shreds, just
as the knives he fought had left them.
M. GILMORE


Weak and Delicate
DeMitatcj and Languid for Years. Health and Vigor sob Fall;
Restored. Most Remarkable Cure.
Mrs. —bel Boulton, of Turbot
St., Brisbane, Queensland, sends
us her photograph, and says:
“From my infancy I was weak
and delicate, and grew to be any-
thingbut a robust child, suffering
from debility, no appetite, and
the usual consequences of such
complaints. But my parents,
hearing of tho health-restoring
properties of Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
procured some for me. and I am
happy to say that after having
taken two bottles I regained
health and vigor, and a good
appetite, and have not troubled
the doctors since. lam now
married and have a family of my
own. am strong and well, and can
recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
as a good family medicine.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is certainly a splendid family medicine. It is just as
good for the child as for the parent. The only difference is in the dose.
The thin, pale schoolgirl is as much benefited as her tired, nervous mother.
The rapidly growing boy, weak and languid, is as promptly aided as his
overworked and overanxious father. Keep this grand medicine in the house.
A dose at the right time will often save a long and expensive sickness.
All Sarsaparillas are not alike. Look out for that. Avoid the many
substitutes and imitations. Insist upon getting “Ayer’s.”
AYER’S I arsaparilla
Takes out all Impurities from the Blood.
Ayer's Pills are Sugar-Coated- A Mild and Gentle Laxative.
Prepared bv P» •»- O. ATE* 00-. Lowell. Kasd.. XT. 8. Jl.
JOHN BRUSH,
*
Saddler,
371 George Street,
STDKTBY.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Ifl the Great .English (Jure for GOUT, aid all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Goat and
Rheumatic medicine*.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during- their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 129
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
t>ox, or obtainable through any Chemist er Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
nenflSSS: Treatment simple; results
£ «£; t ti^ B |R I, P TB PROOFS. *o., FREE.
Or 6 bottles, 31/- (enough for s months); 12 bottles,
„ 56/-, carriage paid.
i ' BliOw-hlll, TTanTwy, £ ng .
T^rtfnkennes
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will
surprise and delight you.
ONE OF mant:
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, which has effected
a cure. I have no desire for drink , in fact have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
Yours gratefully. R.O.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted*FßEE.
Address •
Wm. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S , Bng.
129 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
11,1 J nfal,ib,e Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
JAKICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
to the most weak and shattered
PiHoo'ia ‘tvitions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
, 128. ,or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
is. and Is. 6d.
9 M^J Or ustra lasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen Bt.,
Melbourne ; N.s. W. —Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
s yeney; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
■W. C. BLDBIDGE ac GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNETf
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution. —Getraine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, LROiMCHixT j,
Li A h'.H,h(LA, hears oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Or.J.COLLIS BROWNS.
188 ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. US 1806. My»;
“Ifl were asked whioh single medicine f should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodtn*. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
Is best recommendation.”
WEAK MADE STRONG!
A UR Electric Appliance
\J pours glowing, exhilar-
ating Vitality into you
while you sleep. It Animates
the sluggish circulation,
Stimulates the Brain to
Activity, and fills the body
with Life, Ambition, and
Endurance. It furnishes
the Motive Power that runs
vour body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
eveiy morning Bkight,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energy and Vigor. Catalogue and Price List
Post Free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Ellxabeth Street, Sydney.
MEN, DON’T WORRY
After you have tried all other remedies for NERVOUS-
NESS, DEBILITY, etc., as thousands have done before we
CURED them. Let us treat you, FREE of CHARGE,
for ONE MONTH, with our NEW CONCENTRATED
BOTANIC EXTRACTS, and the BENEFICIAL RESULTS
will surprise you.
Address: Botanic Institute, Victoria
Chambers, Elisabeth Street, Sydney.
aero*
The N«w Patent
SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome De»px« s
land Head Noises, po nr tier of
■how long standing. 4 re the same
fto the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melboom*
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured ol all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charg e
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney .
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
0& E pWS
l/OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
-1 Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals. Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath. Cos'iveness, Blotches on the Slcin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILT, GIVE RELIEF TN TWENTY, MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system, For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beerham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
.he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EMLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
I D GE S
C A
ARE well known in Australasia. Their steady
advancement in popular favor is due to
their sure fire, uniform and accurate qual>
ties. U.M.C. stamped on a cartridge head is a
guarantee of uniformity. All dealers carry
U.M.C. cartridges because they sell well and
satisfy their customers.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
There’s SECURITY in
ARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
V Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
touch LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dos*. Snail Price.
Carter's
Gfi
-o
e
<3
2
3=
CO
=>
fid
Price Is. Id.
Poitam.
A CARD.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., tm„
M.8.C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.F.P.S.Q.,
Grierson Bursar and Medallist, University of Edinburgh ; formerly Member of the Royal Medical Society of
Edinburgh ; Late Assistant Demonstrator in Practical Z oology, University of Edinburgh ; Member of the General
Council of the University of Edinburgh, etc., etc. Formerly Medical Superintendent and Visiting Surgeon to
four of Australasia’s leading Hospitals, may be consulted personally or by letter, FREE, at his consulting room*,
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY, /
daily, from 10 to 2, and from 7to 9 p.m. (Sundays, 12 to 1.) He makes no charge for a friendly chat or confl*
dential talk. Being a Consulting Physician in all Diseases of Men and Women, and a Specialist in all
Private, Nervous, Skin, & Benito-Urinary Complaints.
Patients entrusting themselves to his care have the advice of a Thoroughly Competent i and Trustworthy
Physician, who treats all cases at moderate charges, and guarantees a cure in all cases undertaken by him.
Send for Dr. Martin’s book, “ Mind Over Matter,” posted FREE on receipt of six stamps. '*The Diseases of
Men and Women ” ready July 10th. Apply at once.
Consultation by Letter—FßEE.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., ** Elmley House/" 151 Ziizabeth-st#, City#
(Please mention this paper when writing.)


INDIA RUBBER
HOT WATER BAGS.
Are a necessity in every home.
Splendid in health or sickir ss. '
Retaining the heat for many
hours. Made of hesfc heavy
English Rubber.
LOWEST PRICES:
PRICE Complete
Siz“. Without Covers. With Covers.
lOin. x Sin. .. (is. 6d. each .. 7s. 3a.
lOin. x Tin. .. Vs. „ .. 7s. Oil.
lOin.' x Sin. .. 7s. 6d . „ .. Bs. 3di
12in. x Sin. .. Bs. . !)s.
12in. x lOin. . Ss. 6d „ 9s. Gd.
4
Perdriau Rubber C 0.2-
(Late Perdriau and Co.),
MERCHANTS,
270 George Street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GiRL
H*r Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Poet Free, is
The Life, Adventures
and i onfesseion* of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Fra*, is.
Send
Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Looks and Novelties
IVfadame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
iIWRM fpfelHG a,&
g|| Mother stvouXAXjexNftVvoutvt \ sewt ox\ veauest.
fiEU
t
i :.■'.
m
«>||si $ *
m
i $
/!p/vff/vss/tse (f/etary ac/aptecf Col
ilk Food N®l
from 6/rt/r to 3 moo Ms.
J Milk Food IM?2 I
j fro/7? 3to 6 /770/7&S I
Malted Food N 93
from 6 monfrs upwards.
PARKE. & LACY GO. LTD.
as wei; as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
*s:.A.-xr:33 aß*x*ocr3c.
Wo
Pulleys
Shafting:
FEummer
CoHars
Coupli
mm
H-m
• > -fit.' . o
Drills
Reamers
Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Siarrett Fine
IVSechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
©0 Glarence-st.. Sydney, N.3.W.
• HATS "
HAVING specially selected from the world’s best
1 1 markets the latest in HARD FELT HATS, I am
able to offer values above the ordinary.
No. 1 is a very stylish up-to-date
line, at 6/6
No. 2— An equally fashionable
Hat, at S/6, in five different
slia'ies.
Av - ° —A superior I r " t ' i!
No. 4 is a liigh-class Bowler,
shapes, Fashion fancies, 7'2/ S, q
Countrj’ Customers post your orders to-
rn ten disti
unsurpassed.
A. H.
171 Pitt St.,
Near G.P.O.
A NOVEL
PRESEI^I
S
f\'S receij't of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, S/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/G.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade. Melbourne, Vic.
HAYMAN'S
BALSAM.
“ Used, your valuable Remedy for
GOUGH & COBB
OYER THIiITY YEARS
In my family with great success,’’
—J. Hall, School-house, E. Markham
AGENTS,
Hu.iott brothers & CO
AUSTRALIAN KRUG CO.
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
OCKET
KNIVES
tho
BEST.
BY A Lit
FmsT-OLAsa
Storks
IK AWil ALASIA.
#/-
1/6
lIS
Mo. a iso.
1 Bladk.
Cocon Handle *
Buffalo Handle
Stag Handle »
Size, SJ" x 3£" x 5
and hav«
for Sal*—
SNOW
(all size*
for all
purposes)
B Tiers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc... Cast, Tool-and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
scßurmr &
9*7 OX.JS.R.BKTCEI 'STIEtESIEST, &'STX2TSnE2'3ir.
T
RAND
Will develop 1 H.P. per
Hour on I©lbs. of Steam.
RAND ROCK DRILLS
Won 11 out of 12 Heats
at the World’s Contest in Johannesburg.
CATALOGUES and PARTICULARS from
■ -*.,i
THRIDGE im
71 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
486 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
