

D. H. BURKE S “GALLEON” SCHNAPPS. “BEAVER” STOUT (Guinness’)
R. G. WATKINS 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over
300
Prize
Medals
and
Grand
Prlx,
Paris,
1900.
i
IZOB^LfLT.
adley’s Orient fjotel.
PIOWEER
LEATHER
IBEJLTJJN C
EVERY BELT. GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s
28,500 STEAM ENGINES SOLD.
ENGINES Valuable Improvements
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
Send for Illustrated
Lists & Particulars
to Sole Agents - -
- -! - - - I,-
GIBSON, BATTLE & C a, BsPittst.,
SYDNEY
BOTTLED IN
SCOTLAND
WHISKY
sAr
Tlafiongl,
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch i
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). A GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted. "WS
OUK for tOalMvui 'Gkd Gottorn,'
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
cINTYRE BROS
. t-v
NO
TEA
LIKE 1/3
OURS!
u
yy
2/. DAILY
TREAT!
I
i
is the Queen of all Cocoas
■ FOJ^
|Arom^trg%tKfc-Purity:
TOOHETS LTD
BREWERS, WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
ana CORDIALS.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
Registered Trade Mark
In Three Colors—
BLACK, RED, & BLUE.
THE PERFECT SREEP-MARKER.
Is the ONLY Absolutely
SAFE Wool-Marking
OR
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by All Merchants and Storekeepers.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
—
i 1: THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
‘ " ever issued in Australia.
v A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS GIFT.
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced.
HEUDON SPA —“Stands pre-eminent as a Table Water
The Bulletin
Vol 26.— N0. 1325.]
[Thursday, July 6, 1905.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HEW
BOOKS.
GEO. ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD.,
71 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYONEY.
Holland, How to Use a Camera, Is 4d posted.
Harben, The Georgians, paper 2s (sd, cloth 3s 6d
postage 6d.
s Carman, The Friendship of Art, Cs, post 6d
ie Statesmen’s Year Book, 1005,12 s 6d, postage 8d
Horners, Engineers’ Turning-, 10s Gd, postage Sd.
Crocket, Maid Margaret, Paper 2s Gd, cloth :is Gd, p. Gd.
Brasse.v’s, Naval Annual, 1905, 18s, postage is 3d.
Poirtifex, A Book of Bridge, leather, gilt edges 6 C
postage
JUST TO HAND,
Price 3/6 each.
Postage fid ex.
THE MAN ON THE BOX,
7
a Novel, by Harold M'Crath, author of “The
Grey Cloak,” etc., Ulus, by Harrison Fisher.
THE PLUM
a Kovel, by David Graham Phillips, author of “The
Cost,” etc., etc., Illustrated.
Reoistered
FOR INFLUENZA,BRONCHITIS, §
ASTHMA. 2, ALL AFFECTIONS |
THE THROATS. LUNGS.& P R& CONSUMPTION
AM lOE&LREMEDV
AM IDEM.REME DY.
: Con lain no Cocaine
' nlhtr nmsonoui aim
S
J OLD By ALL CHEMISTS, j/S.
v T HE GREAT
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY.
FOR ROUGHS , COLDS , SORE. THROAT, LOSS OF V° >C^Ll
i - ■ ■■■■■ 1 ~ uimsON Cl imist, Ipswich,
Sold in Tins, 1/6, or-l'ost Free on receipt of stamps from the Sole Manufacturer, -'C, » • N Zealand.
Queensland SYDNEY HBPOT-5 and 7 Queen's Place. Agencies in all the Australian States <*
Queensland. - AUKNt-W. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Begei t Street t\.
THE RED PAGE.
JOSIAH-S DREAM
AND Josiah dreamed a dream, Josiah
Symon, of course (or, as he affronts us in
a long, majestic line on the cover of the
pamphlet—surely with some superfluity ,
of “honours” if not of honour
The Hon. Sir Josiah Symon, K.C.M.G., K.C.
Ah, dear knight! and to think that the subject of
his pamphlet should be plain
William Shakspere
in half the space, with no titular heralds and
no cometary train—plain W. S., and riever sure
how he was going to spell it ! — yes, that very
Shakespear who wrote that “ If I would but go to
hell for an eternal moment or so, I could be
knighted ” (this with our author’s own misprision
of quotation).
* .
The pamphlet—booklet; rattier —with the better
covering it deserves one might call it a book,
though brief, is Shakespeare at Home, by
The Hon. Sir Josiah Symon, K.C.M.G., K.C.
(On reflection, one might approve the precedent
and added honour thus cast upon the knightly
“Sir”: seen truly, it gives strength and assur-
ance, faith by justification,) Shakespear you have
heard of : glory of letters, cynosure of critics, end
and aim of Poverty Point, with the rest (remember
passim that noble scene in the noble drama of J.
Ccesar:
Cas. That you have wrong’d me, doth appear in this :
You have condemn’d and noted my associate
For piling up a bill for travelling exes ;
Wherein, my letter; praying on his side, . ~ \
Because I knew the facts, was slighted of.
Bru. You wrong’d to write in such a oftse., 1'
Cos'. In such a court as this, it is not meet
That every set of shelves should bear his comment.
Bru, Let me tell you, Cassius, you yourself
Are much condemn’d to.have an itching palm ;
And seven'telephones are far toO many
For undeservers.
Cas, lan itching palm ? • , y ■
You know that you the Minister speak this,
Or, by the gods, I ’d gaol you for contempt !
Bru. The name of Themis honours this corruption,
And chastisement doth therefore hide his head,
Cas. Chastisement!
Bru. Remember March, the ides of March remember,!
Did not our country bleed for union’s sake? • ■
And so on.
& at Home (Ad., Hussey & Gillingham; 2s.
6 d. ) extends a lecture delivered to Melb. .Shake-
spear Society by
The Hon. Sir Josiah Symon, K.C.M.G., K.C,
(We shall never weary of writing that royal row
of appellatives, sailing along like Cleopatra’s barge,
while “ a strange invisible perfume hits the sense
Of the adjacent” words. Oh, if a simple pieman had
met that Symon going to the fair, would not the
varlet’s knees have shook the pies?) . It is a per-
sonal, enthusiastic, uncritical fantasia on Shakes-
pear’s life and work, very well written : the
writer’s style is bright, strong and clear. Without
novelty, it skims lightly, agreeably over the four
facts-, the forty rumours, and the -forty thousand
- guesses and speculations that “ Shaksesperearare ”
spells nowadays in his casual, undetermined way.
It is the best we have seen among the little disquisi-
tions with which local Shakespear societies from
tifne to 1 time favour us. Three-fourths indeed is
imaginative fiction, quite futile : Josiah dreams
that Shakespear did this or that, and interprets his
dream pleasantly, vaguely. There are occasional
flaws : e.g., he should have quoted Tarquin (p.
109) correctly, and be should have abstained from
such nonsense as dubbing Tarquin’s specific speech
“the sad cry of all humanity” and giving it a
particular reference to Shakespear himself.
*
Nevertheless, one would not say the little book
was not worth while. In the intervals of strife, it
is good to see these politicians turning to the calmer
paths of letters : did not Griffith, C.J., terrify
Aganippe .with aversion of'Dante that seut the
poor nymph flying to the utmost parts of Beotia
(Q-). But Symon has a weak notion that an
Australian shrine should be set up at Stratford to
profit the Bard-mongers. That is bad : so is
N.S.W. S. Society’s idea of a local statue.
Surely, says a Sat, Review correspondent:
Surely the funds collected for a Shakespear memorial
in this country should be spent, not on constructing
some grotesque statue by an* incapable sculptor that
shall remain to insult good taste for all time, but in
founding some institution where mimes can once more
acquire the lost art, the grand method of declamation,
the magnificent power of speaking- blank verse in rythmic
and sonorous measure.
And surely, say we, any funds available in
Australia should be devoted to founding a local
theatre where intellectual drama can be staged, to
the profit of the people and the encouragement of
local writers and actors.
$
The occasional public utterances of two (at
fewest) of Sydney University professors—Messrs. Mac Ca-
l, lum and Anderson, are always worth hearing or
reading-; and they shine in strong contrast to the
frequent remarks of that windy and ungrammatical
personage G. H. Knibbs, who (fbr the , credit of
the Education Dept, that he doubtfully adorns) should
really be persuaded to stop talking in public. (This seems
hard language, hut not if one had to read those all-over-
the-shop reports.) Prof. MaeCallum referred the other day
to the benefit of studying modern history as correc-
tive to “ that tendency' to look on ourselves as
the roof and crown of things.” But ■we are: of
existing things, and in relation to- ourselves. Prof. Mac-
Caltum is the roof and crown -of all preceding
,‘MacCallums that have striven to make him what he is;
I not necessarily, indeed, in relation to the whole Mac-
ICallum edifice, but in relation to the only part of it that
j realiy matters to him, in relation to himself. To say that
j MaeCallum Mohr was a greater man is to miss the point :
lie is not greater at this vital moment that is
t concentrated in’ Prof. MaeCallum. We would agree
' with almost everything that Bolingbroke has said on
the efficacy of historical study; hut after all the study
- there remains the fact that Prof. MaeCallum is
alive now, and in a few years he will be dead
and mutton, and To-day and To-morrow are the
whole universe, for him. The argument applies equally
to a race or nation. Doubtless “greater” races have
lived than the race of N.S.W. land-agents: nevertheless,
the land-agent is quite right in realising that Now is
the fee-accepting time and Then isthe day of retribution (?)
There is difference only of points of view, but while we
see so many people doddering over the dead Past we
are pound to insist On the virtue of the living Present and
th u promise (that with the advice of the Past and the
labour of the Present we may make performance) of the
Future.
BORROWING BOOKS
THERE are three ways of obtaining books—
buying, stealing, and borrowing. The
buyer loses money, the stealer loses repu-
tation and sometimes liberty, the borrower
loses nothing except the lender’s friendship. The
difference between the last two classes is rather
subtle: both take the book, neither gives it back
willingly; but the thief, if pressed, will probably
deny his theft, while the borrower is always ready
to acknowledge his borrowing. It is generally
best, when trouble is brewing, to address your
victim voluntarily with some such phrase as-“It
was so good of you to lend nje that Book.”.
Borrowing books as a profession or as a means
of_ livelihood is justly condemned by the right-
minded ; it should rather be regarded as a sport
or as a hne art, according to its grade. The lowest,
and least intellectual form consists of entering a
friend's hoii'se during his absence, removing a book,
and leaving a message of insolent triuriiph to that
effect; this last act marks the transition- from a
felony to a . gentlemanly proceeding. The second
Stage represents a moral advance upon the first;
ethically it lies somewhere between highway rob-
bery and Rugby football. The;.-distinctive mark
is, that the owner is'present when the book .is
borrowed ;• the borrower announces- his intention
of borrowing the book, and wihs the race heaps
with- it in his pocket. The; variation of this
method, in which a third frierid is introduced to
hold the owner down while the loan is being com-
pleted, is of a lower grade, and can only be de-
fended as a joke.
In the third stage we pass from barbarism to
civilisation ; and moral institutions, which are the
mark of civilisation, are here present in the form
of certain presuppositions of politeness on either
side, which constitute the r.ules of -the game.-
B-ule I is. v that it is impolite to refuse to lend a
pbok. This would seem to put the game into the.
borrower’s hands; but Rule II restores the balance
by allowing-the lender, within limits, to say that
he has already promised the book to another
friend. Matters now seem at a deadlock, but
Rule 111 again modifies the situation: it says that
lies coming under Rule II must not be too glar-
ingly obvious. It is clear, then, that the borrower
must exercise a nice discretion. On the one hand,
the book must be valuable enough to be worth
borrowing; on the other hand, it must not-be so
valuable as to force the owner to invent a really
artistic lie, and so escape Rule 111. Where ncit
much is at stake he will probably refuse the effort
involved, and let the borrower win the game.
In this higher stage the game admits of several
interesting variations, such as the Sick Friend, the
Journey, and the Biter Bit, The Sick Friend., is
used either in attack or defence : thus the bor-
rower may say that his friend is ill and in need
of a certain book, and offer to take it to him ;
or the lender may refuse to lend the book on
the plea that he has already, promised it to
another sick friend ; in such a ease, however, the
lender must observe Rule 111 with care. - The
Journey variation* is purely offensive : the bor-
rower is leaving the lender’s house and borrows
the book to read in the train ; if the lender replies
that he has promised to lend it to another friend
to read in the, train, lie infringes Rule 111, . and
loses. The Biter Bit is one of the most interest-
ing of all the variations.: as the name implies, the
lender becomes a borrower ; lie has lent, let us sav,
a book (a) to a friend. He then goes to the
friend’s house, borrows a . second book (b), and
says, “ As I am here, I may as well take back that
book I lent you,” adding, “ for poor Jones,” if he
is also playing the Sick Friend.
- The above may serve to indicate some of the.
possibilities of this game. o‘n its merits as a form
of sport it is needless to dwell. Like all the higher
forms of sport, it does much to train our faculties,
and is an invaluable element in the education of
an Imperial Raci? ; at least, it teaches thorough! v
the two great-lessons of Enterprise and Diplomacy
(otherwise called lying and stealing), which form
the AB C of Imperial expansion. It is with a
just historical appreciation that the Book-bor-
rowers’ Club have placed in their vestibule the
busts of Ananias and Barabbas, engraved with, the
motto “ Honour among Borrowers.”
Book-borrowers on the whole are a prosperous
and contented race, and entertain a kindly.feeling
for one another, although their interests frequently
conflict. They are often scattered in this life-
some live near [Wahroonga], some in [Darling-
hurst]; but they will all be reunited later on.—
A.H.S., in Westminster Gazette.
—
Holman Hunt, now 78 years of age, is exhibiting
in London 'Hie Lady of Shaloft, a new painting praised
bv an anonymous critic for qualities of design and colour
absent in Hunt’s previous works. “It will rank as one of
the greatest achievements of British art.”
Dr. Head, a fellow of English Royal Society,
has made the interesting experiment of' dividin''- the
sensory nerves in his own arm and watching sensations
disappear. The nerves were then reunited bv stitching
and the process of recovery carefully watched dav bv day.
Head claims to have discovered that there are" two dis-
tinct sets of nerves to the skin ; one set conveying sensa-
tions of pain, iieat, and cold, th 6 second set carrvin»-
sensations of touch.
Forest Flora, by J. H. Maiden, part 16
(B.vd. j Govt. Printer; !>'.) considers weeping mvall, pep-
permint (eucalyptus amygdalina), forest oak, and ivory
wood, with botanical plates by M. Flock ton. Myall is the
only tree photographed. Maiden calls E. amygdaUna
his favourite eucalyptus-tree—with an undecided call
due to the various beauties of the genus. He suggests
that -as a beautiful tree, readilv propagated, with a
delicious and health-giving aroma, it should be replanted
where possible. Information is wanted regarding the
nelia or nilyah, apparently a species of myall. Will some
kindly reader collect a few twigs with flowers and pods,
and post to Mr. Maiden —with a note of localitv. etc. ?
Our- copy of the half-tone block on p. 128 ‘is not well
printed.- Me are told that the G.P.O. machinists insist
on expensive surfaced paper for such, blocks: which is
necessary indeed for the best work, but not for fair to
good work. In the present case the original photograph
seems to have been lacking in definition and perspective
value.——Accented "Salix Babylonica” on p. 12k is a blun-
der.- The publication comes from the Dept, of Lands,
with a fpap. folio circular to introduce it. signed bv
two officials. One official is enough :in fact, there is no
need to fill up a feap. form at all: a small slip, wholly
printed, and naming an official to whom review notices
inav be sent direct, is all that’s wanted. In such a mat ter
Govt, depts. should save time, ink, and paper. The
blank space on back of c'over should be tilled with an
advertisement of desirable vacant lands and improvement
leases for sale (with or without portraits of Crick,
Meagher, Willis & Co. —the whole galaxy). Ilefe’s 30*.
worth of space devoted to making - Govt, wheels go round :
please count to The fi.*s credit on judgment-day.
THE COMPLETE SWIMMER
RALPH THOMAS, of 30 Narbonne Avenue,
Olaphara Common,‘London, who publishes
Swimming through Sampson Low (10a 1 . G d.
net) is a man, one is convinced, after
Izaak Walton’s own heart, and if he could regain
the simplicity and morality of the 16-17th century
he might be a writer after. Izaak’s honourable
manner. But the modern printer is too complex
for him, the modern publisher too knavish : and,
though he labours diligently toward his ideal, the
fair vision never is realised wholly. Still it is
lovable book that he gives us: a table-book,
too heavy for a bedybook, a book of’ 1
brave subaqueous things. One will tiever
read it all, but one will read it always, overhand
over. Called a bibliography of swimming it' is.
rather a swimmer’s bible, with revelation. doV.
trine, and commentary complete. Though one
looks vainly in the index for a reference, to the
“ record ’’ swim of Jbpah or the value bflargefishes
as life-savingappliancbs.,Jonah’s involuntary .sea-
dive took him,right “down to the bottoms of the
mountains,” whpre the breeds ‘were “wrapped'
about;” ;liis head.,; yet (wgth th,e) aid of a large
fish) hecame in . time to thh> surface.of
things." being apparently in po way distressed.
Arid if "Mr. Thomas made 'a.Jittle f excursus to-
prove that the practice-of prbphecy. is,'a fine
thing for the wind, One could add baleful local
illustrations (for what is poesy but prophecy
writ small and largely talked about?)
... J*
To be sure, the original (?) Thomas was a
doubter... and this Thomas, after examina-
tion of all the books about swimming that he
could find, is profoundly sceptical about the value
of legendary authorities. Comparatively few and
positively - evil have been the writers .about
swipiming; and they steal vr O l^hpw,
they steal from ’one another dr- from one, repro-
ducing .blunders and bad drivings from generation
to generation-. Accidentally, then; Swim Ming is a'
handbook of plagiarism. Incidentally, it is. a
text’-book of typography. Mr. Thomas'" would
swim away from disfiguring italics, from obtrusive
capitals, from superfluous marks of punctuation,
and “ I also object much to hyphens, which help
to blacken the page-.” “I desire what?l write to
be printed in the most effective, artistic, and un-
obtrusive manner, so that anyone will be able to
read without ever giving a thought to the mechan-
ism of the print.” And as far as modern
typefounder will permit- him, he presses toward
his mark : with the result that frequently one has
to give a thought to the mechanism of his thought.
Dexterous punctuation is a light to our head and a
lamp to-our path, and (for our taste) Mr. Thomas
doth detest too much. The plain page tends
to be barren : italics may blot; but capitals should
decorate, and do. “ Dr. N. O. B. Ody Smith,
LL.D.” is. a monstrosity that one would join in,
decapitating; yet... one can but hint how Mr.
Thomas’s “fads” provide a new field of .interest
for readers.
Here remark the best of him : he is individual:
he makes his own book ; and so many of us make
other people's, reducing literature to one dreary
common denomination. Thus is justified his
humble boast that every page has interest. It is
i the unhandy form, the • unworthy binding, that
depress us : the work should appear in larger
type and half-a-dozen small octavos, in leather,
that it might gossip like Montaigne : at present it
is cumbrous, and the print does not represent ade-
quately the author s English sidestroke.
Did we say that the book was all 'abortt swim-
ming ? It is all about books about swimming,
excerpted,and annotated. T-uere is theory and
discussion of practice (the trudgen stroke, for
example, often referred to' in these columns, is
fully accounted for). There are references to
several Australian books on swimming : one of
them, Charles Steedman’s Manual (Melb., 1867)
“is the best, and most complete work on swim-
ming written up to this date [1867 ?] and Aus-
tralians may well be proud of it' : though Steed-
man says thousands of them [English Australians]
have n ever been washed !
Several of his suggestions are worth repeating. One is
that coroners [no apostrophe] verdicts should be changed
into.“death caused by a most important feature in the
physical education of the victim having been completely
ignored, namely, “the art of swimming.”’ Perhaps a
better one is that there should be a law “compelling all
persons saved from drowning, who were unable to swim,
to pay a tithe” of their property to their rescuers.
Nevertheless, one does rmt find that Australian
swimmers’ prowess (as advertised here) is suffici-
ently marvelled at. But there are many illustra-
tions to marvel at, from Assyrians to mermaids
(though surely Assyrians came chronologically
after mermaids: and caught them?) then past
mermaids down to the botches of illustrators un-
able to swim : a curious and enthralling collection.
The index is fully readable.
In long, the book is a new wonder of the literary
world : to an intelligent swimmer it seems indis-
pensable. So, you may demur, is 12a. Cxi. : a fallacy
to be exposed by dispensing.
*— .
George Moore, with an eye to Shaw’s pose, has
been prefacing discussion of‘Schiller with the avowal that
he never read Schiller’s work. He adds that Schiller’s
power of writing poetry must have been limited by his
Christian name of. “ Frederick,” which recalls to The
Academy the Oxford man of whom it was written that
“ he goeth not to lectures, for he saith, How can a man
lecture in hags cut like’.that?” Of course Schiller’s name,
was not Frederick,‘but Friedrich'; a different- thing alto-
gether. Omitting' that point, Th,e Academy challenges
Moore to account, for -the fact that men with the same
Christian name have-often had quite different kinds of
genius. “ What resemblance exists,” it asks, “between the
gifts of Robert Burns and Robert Hichens?” Well, both
are pre-oceupied with the lasses, O : “Robert” is always
strongly sexed. In Moore and Carlyle, Thomas is a name
of strict morality. Every 7 Thomas is Respectability’s
pillar. Samuel Johnson and Samuel, Clemens do not run
together, because Clemens soon found out that his name
did not suit him, and,changed it to Mark —even in domes-
tic life. The connection between George Moore and
George Herbert-is an easy riddle. Bot h are deeply devo-
tional, and walk through cloisters of prose swinging
odoriferous sensei's.
MEMORANDA
'The,,Athenaeum ssiys G. W. Lambert’s equestrian
portrait of a boy in the Academy shows “a real sense of
design, and a certain scholarly deliberation in the choice
Of colour, the note of dry red telling well upon a general
scheme of warm greys and browns.” The praise is pleasant
to read ; and if Lambert can paint as well as this, it is
time he painted the two pictures which he owes on
scholarship account to the local Gallery. Since N.S.
Wales (with occasional deliberation) put down the money
to start him on a European career, he should at least ful-
fil the conditions.
“ Beau. S.” writes some Adelaide art notes :
This year’s S. A. Society of Arts Exhibition is the best
Recorded, due to the fact that Will Ashton, Hans Heysen,
and. Hayley Lever, all recently returned from Europe, are
almost the whole exhibition. The place of honour is given
to Will Ashton’s large canvas, *• Winter’s Evening on the
Seine."
Ashton exhibits a dozen other pictures, notably “ An
Evening Idyll',*-' “Sand Dunes,;” ’ arid “The Jetty.”
“•Idyll” is a meadow, with a clump of oaks, a wall at the
bottom, two lovers nqar it, a bay in the background with
'a, sailing boat that apparently-moves, slowly along through
the stiff evening, and a pale moon overhead.
(Heysesn’s notable work A a clump,,of mallee, gracefully
grptiped, with a. hright sun. shining orv the leaves—“ Sun-
shine and Shadows,” Tbe subject is similar to his
“ Mystic Morn ” (noW in S.A. Gallery), but is painted in a
different light.
Levler exhibits an excellent seascape, “ Foundering.”
The foreground is'the depth of a huge wave, capped with
foam. In the middle .distance is the suggestion of a vessel
foundering. In the; background are dark, frowning cliffs,
where heads rise up add hide themselves in vapour. It is
ail. impressive thing, arid kthpetbing. new in seascape.
!L 1!. Gilt’s “Fringe o? the Sea,” and Davies’ “Path
Through the Bush,” are both? better than their owners’
exhibits of last year. James Ashtbrj.is well represented,
and there is a noticeable improvement in his work. In
portrait work the Hatnbridge girls, Hilly and Helen, and
Jas. Keen exhibit satisfactory work. Judged by previous
years, the verdict on the exhibition can be only compli-
mentary.
weeks ago the Sydney picture-dealer,. Aldanhpven,
.caine to Adelaide with a collection of pictures “ valued at.
fiOHOf.” -all by Ajg^dlian“/painters. The exhibition, in
my opinion, was a poor one—apparently to some extent
'an exhibitio.nyof “pot-boiiers." In Henry Tel)hill ’sh un -
“dred or lnore carivaseATfbuhd about two decent things—
one of them being “Australian Giants,” priced 3001.
Tebbitt is clever, but- —! The whole catalogue was
offered at auction last week, but prices realised were very
low. Pictures;36in, by 24in. wept for 1 and 2gs.
i'fie Musicdl Courier suggests that Paderewski’s
recent, illness was due to a. peculiar action of the right foot
in pedalling. Instead of resting his right heel on the floor
while using the pedal, he raised- his right-foot; and con-
sequently his right leg and his entire right side were
under strain. It is suggested that this has caused nervous
prostration, respiting from a stiff neck. More likely P.
has had his first touch of hemiplegia. He is just the full-
blooded, full-nerved man whom one wpuld expect paralysis
to claim as victim. . -V - '.
In The Academy “Aiiodos” writes this little-
piece of “ Renaissance Gentlemen,” which is quoted for
the interesting melody of it.
REXAISSAXCE GEXTLEHES.
0, not for that they ought ,K
They fought when they fought,
lint they fought for the splendour of the fight 1 ,
A ini they -wedded while they wooed
Ere the fury of their inood |
ilinfoiU ifi the blaukne-s of the night.
o, boldly led they then
, . ie life of living men A 4
ia their glory, their bravery and pride ! i
They were cruel and strong ' 'Si
it i the right side and the wrong,
And gallantly, gallantly they died.
It is now quite clear that English verse of the future
will be moulded partly by'rhe-q uantity of words, that
feature which generations of critics have assured us could
not exist- in English verse. Note the little blots above.
Wooed may be held as long as mood, but practically the
- e makes a.difference to the, eye at least," with the result of
a rhyme not quite beautiful. Another faulty line is “On
the right side and the wrong.” On the and and the are
objectionable in themselves, and there are too many
t-sounds ; but tbe second the spoils the metrical effect by
obliging one to slur the long vowels in right side. The
, last line is good : doesn’t gallantly give a fine image of a
plumed cavalier on a caracoling horse approaching the
combat. ’ ’.'A
G. B. Shaw's paternal grandfather, according to
a “ near relative,” was high sheriff of comm Kilkenny.
His father was a younger son. The present represen-
tative of the Shaw family in Ireland is Major Sir
Frederick Shaw, of Bushey Park, Dublin. Shaw’s mater-
nal grandfather was Walter Bagnall Gurley, a landed
proprietor whose entailed estate G.B.S. inherited in 1898,
P.T.F. writes:
Of course it does n’t matter, but I’ve been wondering
about Poe’s lamp :
And the Raven never flitting, still is sitting, still is
sitting , ,
On that pallid bust of Pallas, just above my chamber
door; , , '
And his eyes have all the seeming of a demons that w
dreaming; ,
And the lamp-light o’er him streaming throws his shadow
on the floor. . . , "1
So the lamp must have been behind and somewhat above
that .bust of Pallas—Le., close to the wvall over the door.
Peculiar position for the chamber lamp of a recluse addicted
to midnight pondeiings “ over many a quaint and curious
volume of forgotten lore,” and very trying, one-imagines,
to the eyes. Then, was it a magical lamp that never re-
quired replenishing? —because one fancies that Poe would
not dare to approach the bird closely enough to nu the
reservoir. Of course, the luxury of the study suggests,a
posse of servants ; but, is it likely that these would not
“ hoosh ” the raven away ? A. E. Sterner’s illustration to
Stednian and Woodberry’s edition (1895) shows the'lamp
on a table in the middle ofjthe floor, but that would thio
the bird’s shadow on the wall.
There is money in books —some books. The
Louis Hutft collection, recently sold at Christie's in Lon-
don, realised 131,0001. for six days’ sale, with more.-w
come. Between this and the penny table-with wMQDvg
Sydney bookseller has been exciting buyers, tne *
is only a difference 0f... books. To that tals ' e v
the other day an old man, a very old man, a Kil
Winkleish old man, in a long, seedy old
a shocking old hat. His face was wreathed in tog
hair, and lie had only one eye; but that was brilliare
and surveyed the feast feverishly. After haff: an ; .
fluttering he settled on a book, and dived ’
old hands into one old pocket after anothei, wh - ,
ally expressions of doubt, alarm, dismay,. > _
other over such portions of his face as could . {
neath the white hair. Then he paused, W m- ®
funereal gloom aged 85 or thereabouts.
matterhe was asked ; and m a curious, h,, . > bg
quavering voice that was almost an antediU ’
said, “ I’ve—l’ve lost me penny .
A.G.S.


WOOL.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
ilili SYDNEY.
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE. "W
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
The CHEAPEST HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
FOOTBALLS. fm/SI^yfSJ^^LgSSSZ-
BtrGBTOB -A.SSOCI^TIO:cqr.
di
OISO/y
vpOVAC v
fODTB^
ye
WA
ro°
ran
ry.Cv
m
wmmm
a*®
s>yv/\ '
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Royal ” Match Footballs, 7/6.
NICHOLSON’S “Royal" Hand Sewn Match, 9/6
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “Special Royal” Footballs, 11/6.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s Extra Special Stpd “A.N.A.,” 14/6
GILBERT’S Best Match Footballs, 12/6.
BRYAN’S “Grasshopper” Match Footballs, 13/6.
“DIADEM” Button less Match, Association only, 13/6.
SYKE’S “Rival,” Association Match only, 10/-.
SYKE’S “ Albion,” Association Match only, 11/6.
SYKE’S “League Defiance,” Association Match only, 15/-
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY.
Solid Leather, No. 1 ..
»» n ii 2 ..
i. »» » 3
*» >» H "
~ „ Match 11.
s. d.
each 2 3
' „ 2 9
„ 3 6
„ 4 3
» 5 0
ASSOCIATION.
Solid Leather, No. 1 ..
.» .. „ 2 ..
„ „ „ 3 ..
.. „ 4 ..
„ „ Match 111.
Special Youths’ Match Ball, Best Quality..
s. d.
each 2 6
„ 3 3
„ 3 9
~4 6
„ 5 0
„ 14 0
BOYS’ RUGBY , Extra Special Value.
No. 1, Is. 9d. each. No. 2,2 s. 3d. each. No. 3,2 s. 9d. each. No. 4,3 s. 3d. each.
FOOTBALL BLADDERS (Imported). Red Robber—Rugby or Association.
No. 1
s. d.
each 1 0
„ 14
„ 1 7
„ 1 10
lj , s. d.
* O, , each 2 3
„ 6, Association only .. .. .. 2/9, 3 3
„ 5, Rugby only, Special Extra’ Stout
Rubber each 3 3
We can supply Colonial Bladders at Cheaper Prices If required,%
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.—Shin Guards.
o# U«
Stout Twill, with tapes pair 1 0
Stout Twill, straps and buckles .. .. ~ 13
Basil, leather straps and buckles .. .. ~ 16
Brown Basil, extra large continuous leather
straps
Gold Cape, straps and buckles
2 0
2 9
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather
straps .. .. .. .. .. pair 3 0
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, con-
tinuous straps, with or without ankle
pads
Same as above, larg-er size .. ..
4 0
5 0
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOT, blocked toe-cap, very light, a splendid
boot for Rugby, 10s 6d pair.
Extra Quality English-made BUCK SKIN BOOT (white), blocked toe and ankle
pads, guard over instep, very special quality, 14s 6d pair.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOTS, blocked toe-caps, with and without
ankle pads, Us 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d pair.
BRASS IN FLA TORS— Is 3d, Is lOd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 6s 6d each.
UMPIRES’ WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS, 6d each. LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
Stout Web Belts, Double Straps and Pocket, Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
Solid Blocked Leather Ankle Guards, 2/6 set of 4
EAR CAPS —White Duck (open top), 3s each ; Buff Chamois
(netted crown), 3s 9d ea. ; Gold Cape (netted crown), 5s ea.
JERSEYS— Men’s Best Quality Navy, Royal Blue, Maroon or
Sky in single colors. Royal and Gold, Sky and Maroon,
Maroon and Gold, Black and Cardinal, Light and Dark
Blue, Black and White, Royal and White, Red and White,
Navy and White, Cardinal and Royal, Black and Royal,
Green and Red, Black and Gold, Green and Gold, in 2-inch
bars, 48/- dozen ; 4/3 each.
01 9
tl
urn
V
OOP VIA
uwl>> UJJ
&
%
•dOHI
The Great
Monte
Carlo
Game.
Perfection of
Mechanical
ingenuity.
Finest Quality-
Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert).
PRICE—
10/6
Post
Free.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment
due in about six
weeks.
PUNCHING BALLS.
Swinging’ Ball, complete, with best
quality Red Rubber Bladder—
-7s 6d, 11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s, 21s,
255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete—lss 6d, 16s 6d,
18s 6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fixing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rubber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels —
Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
SPECIAL REDUCTISN.
To advertise this Favorite
and up-to-date- Rifle, the
Manufacturers have de-
cided to REDUCE the
Selling- Price
FOR ONE
MONTH
ONLY i.
The Celebrated “ Maine” Rifle,
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights
to 300yds., Bolt Action, 18in.
Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut - -
Stock. Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges. Weight, 2}lb.
Shewing Qifie A parr
'THE MAINE”
oifle
PRICE 12/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA,
A-MMXjnxriTionNr,
Gun Cartridges .
per 100
6s Od
6s
6s
6s
8s
10s
11s 9d
11s Od
22222
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges -
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
„ 22 Long
~ 22 Long Rifle ..
~ 22 Extra Long..
$lOO $lOOO
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Od 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
“The Reliable,”
™£! £6 12s 6d
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
MOILLIS & SONS' “THE RELIABLE" D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12-
gauge top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels, both choke, side
Wk action automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with
cross bolt, neatlv engraved, chambered tor SJin. cartridges. _ GUARANTEED FOR
ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun m the States ..
£l2 12s
3/6
Hanoicap
sr.
STANbAftb
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Pull Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENGER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25®
“ E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz>
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
* Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
BOXING GLOVES.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, Gs 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “ C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set;
60z., 12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois,
Champion shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 198 set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 16s 6d set
PF" Illustrated Sports, Pishing Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
1
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight £ R
5 lib
r y
tkA.
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 gauge, top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. &E. fore-end, pistol <
grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. .. ■*"w®
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifle
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 31b. 15s
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V s. d.
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2§lb. .. 18 6
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 3 Jib 166
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


ROBERTS* HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall and Poßt
and within a stone’s throw of all the Theatres.
Engrave Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are o*ily charged for the naeal3 consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from ts. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2.30; DINNER, 5.30 till 7.30
Speeial Feature-RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made thia the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of" paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
HOTEL ENTRANCE a MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
AUTOMATIC r,fle
.22 CALIBER MODEL 1903
LIKE HISTORY IT REPEATS ITSELF
As a means of pleasure and sport, the Winchester Automatic
Rifle is as far ahead of any other .22 Caliber as an automobile
is ahead of the historic one-horse shay. After loading this
rifle, all that it is necessary to do to shoot it ten times is to
pull the trigger for each shot. Although automatic in action,
it is simple in construction and not apt to get out of order.
For city, country or camp it is the gun of the day.
Sold by all dealers. Manufactured by
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., - NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
WOOD-MILNEI
K»
PEfMBEZISi
SPeCIALQUAU
WORN
BY
ROYALTY.
Prevent worn-down heels and unshapely boots. Make one pair of boots
wear as long as two. Reduce fatigue, give grace to the walk and make
every step a pleasure.
Obtainable retail from all Storekeepers and Boot Stores throughout the States.
Wholesale only from D, & W. MURRAY, Ltd.,
Adelaide, Kalgoorlie, Launceston, Townsville, Perth, Melbourne, Brisbane, Broken Hill.
Sole Manufacturers of the Wood-Milne /to/s- REVOLVING HEEL Co., Preston, ENGLAND.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—'Sm Capsule marked EMO*B 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have «
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
Fxtp&rtd only by J. 0. E WO. Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, BNO.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEH,
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure two Nerveu, Debility,
hey's ecu re th”?etur n *o?Yo^thfuf StAengtlTaAd Vitality. Re-establish
loxes,°6^. C & r i C^s. a Course, V 23/6. M Si^c?al opo'w^rfu 0 po'w^rful C> E)cmble , 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43,6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
tj wfttm ATlC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing' Powders s
Head Office: 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches* 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z. hans peti... rasmusben,
Eight Years' Suffering.
A PERMANENT CURE.
The Case of Mrs. A. WEAVER,
(By a Syd.iey Reporter.)
No one can tell the self-denying work
which good men have done in the early
days of this country, neither can we
exaggerate the nobleness of spirit
which animates present-day people in a
desire to ameliorate distress as much
as lies in their power. Therefore, the
public should be informed of some of
these efforts, one of which was made
by Mrs. Alice Weaver, of .No. 7 Louis-
street, Redfern, who replied to the re-
porter by saying :
“About this time last year I was
living in Telopea-street, and it was
just before I left there for this place
that I was fortunate in casting aside a
complaint that had worried me for no
less than eight years. What a fearful
life of suffering mine had been all that
time, to be sure, and to think that
nothing in the world could benefit me
made my spirits droop lower than
they wili ever be again, I hope/'
“What made you think that nothing
could benefit you '{” queried the
writer.
“L arrived at that conclusion because
nothing had done me good so far, and
I believe I tried every medicine going.
At the time my second child was born
1 w-as under a doctor who did every-
thing he could for me, but still my
health remained as bad as it could be.
Indeed, at that period I was nearly
dead with indigestion, although I diet-
ed myself and did all that could be
done to keep my torments in check.
It was of no avail though, for when I
ate anything I could hardly breathe
owing to a feeling which came like a
lump in my chest, from which place a
sharp pain went right through to the
centre of my shoulders. I then remain-
ed in the utmost agony until the food
was vomited up again, after which I
felt so exhausted that I could not
think of doing a thing in the house
until I had had a good rest. It would
surprise you if you only knew how
poor my appetite was. You would
wonder how anybody could keep alive
with it, and as for my head—oh !my
sufferings with it we re awful. The most
piercing pains at one time and the
most depressing aches at another.
Really, 1 think it was a marvel how I
kept my senses with the agony I en-
dured in the head, and it’s strange
that I didn’t meet with many a nastv
accident through the giddiness which
used to overtake me."
“Why ? Were you ever seized with it
in the street V”
“Often I was attacked when walking
down the road, when my sight would
leave me, and I felt horrible ; and suf-
fering so long had played havoc with
my nervous system, too. I would stand
for an hour at the corner of a street
before I would dare to cross it, and
when 1 made up my mind it wasi gene-
rally just as a tram or something was
passing, and I’d have to run bade out
of the way. That was always my
trouble. I could not make up my
mind to do a thing for a long while,
and when I did it invariably turned
out wrong, which showed that ner-
vousness can throw a person’s mind
into a state of confusion. But I’m not
at all like that now. I can dodge in
and out of the thickest traffic,' and
never have the slightest fear of get-
ting down ; I can walk about in "the
dark at any hour of the night, and
not feel the least bit atraid, though it
is only a year since I was so nervous
that l couldn’t do such things if 1 bad
been given a thousand pounds."
“How do you account for such an
extraordinary change ?"
“It’s easy to do that. It was Cle-
ments Tonic which effected the altera-
tion, and to my last day on earth 1
shall feel grateful to that remedy for
the way it pulled me round, for when
1 started with it I was so reduced in
flesh that there was only the frame of
me left, and often and often I felt lit
only to go away and lie down and die.
1 was a misery to myself and every-
body around me, and to tell you the
honest truth I never thought I would
live through it all. All the years 1
was ailing there didn't seem to be a
solitary thing that went right. Alv
eyes used to feel heavy enough to drop
out of their sockets, and 1 was affected
in the mouth by such a bitter taste
that it made me feel sick of a morning
after putting in the usual restless
nights that had done so much to-
wards making a wreck of me. If I
slept at all 1 dreamt such awful
things about the children that I used
to call out for help, and on awaking
would find myself bathed in perspira-
tion and trembling like a leaf. E en
in the daytime I was always imagin-
ing something terrible was going- io
happen, although it never came to
pass, but still that fact did not keep
me from getting as gloomy and sad-
hearted as ever woman was. And
these were just the very thing's that
Clements Tonic showed itself to be the
master of, for it sent such vigour
through my frame when I had been
taking it a couple of weeks that i
could not help feeling joyful in the be-
lief that at last my health had taken
a beneficial turn. 1 got more Clements
Tonic, and as each bottle was finished
so did my prospects improve, for I
commenced to take my meals with a
degree of heartiness which astonishec
my people as much as it pleased them,
and to my own satisfaction and de-
light the former discomforts attending
my meals were Quickly out of exist-
ence. An overloaded sensation in the
stomach, which made my clothes feel
too tight for me, had been one of my
annoyances, and I used to belch up
wind frequently ; but a short course oi
Clements Tonic got those troubles un-
der, besides removing from my loins
the aches that were particularly pain-
ful whenever I had to bend down for
anything. Oh, dear ! what a changer
woman I am now to then ! My limbi
do not ache from weakness like they
formerly did, and 1 can go about my
work as cheerfully and as actively as
any housewife in the country. I do not
spend any restless nights now. never
dream during my sleep, and the pains
that used to abound have long since
been driven away from every part oi
my bo'dy.”
“And have you had no physical
troubles whatever since you were
cured ?”
“Not in any shape or form, and now
when I go to see any of my old
friends they laugh to see me looking so
well, and it’s enough to make them
considering I was so like death a year
ago. Well, Clements Tonic made me
the healthy woman I am, and for the
sake of other sufferers 1 trust you'll
publish this interview in any way you
think best.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, ALICE WEAVER, ol No. 7 Lotiis-
street, Redfern, in the State oi New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia do
solemnly and sincerely declare that T have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing- oi four folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to four, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of mv iiiness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission- to publish in auy
way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment ; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be true, and by virtue ol
the provisions of the Oaths'Aft, 3900.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern this
sixth day of September, one thousand nine
hundred and four, before me.
L. BREARLEY, J.P.
LADIES'
Watches
(Kb GENT.'S
(SI Chains,
Birthday RINGS
Brooches, Curb Chain Bracelets—FßEE.
A Solid Gold Ladies’ or Geut.’s Watch costs
from to /, io. Don’t throw your money
away. If you want a watch that will equal for
time any solid gold watch made, send us your
name and address at once, and we will send
you 8 boxes of our famous New Life Electine
Vegetable Pills to sell at i/- a box — a grand
remedy and cure for all impure and weak con-
ditions of the blood, kidney and liver trouble, a
cure for constipation and weak nervous disor-
ders, a tonic and a life builder. Our pills are
genuine, and are carefully manufactured from
the very best drugs. They are easy to sell.
Send us your order at once, and we will send
you the 8 boxes, postage paid. When sold you
send us our money, 8/-, and we will send you
your prize. We are giving these watches and
other prizes to quickly introduce our pills, -
and when you receive your premium we ask you to show it to your friends. This is a grand oppor-
tunity to get a fine. Watch and Chain Free. Send us your name and address at once. You
take no risk. Elective Medicine Co., Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
A Few Remarks -from the Department of Public Health.
Head Office, Wellington, N.Z., ibth May, 1905.
Gentlemen,—l have to acknowledge receipt of your formulae of " Electine Kidney Bean.”
" New Life, Blood, Tonic and Nerve Pill,” " Electine Little Liver Granules” and "Electine Cold
and Headache Tablets.” I am glad t > see that you are not ashamed to put your formulae on
the outside of each box. I have tin honour to be, gentlemen, your obedient servant,
The Electine Medicine Co., Ash Si., a-, dney, N.S.W. Dr. J. W. MASON, Chief Health Officer.,
*• ,*
%
Ilf


1\
Poor little fellow! He
coughs so hard he cannot
sleep. That makes him weak
and sickly all the next day.
His brother thinks this
coughing is terrible. So do
we, for we know that just a
few doses of
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
will cure this cough. For 60
years it has been the standard
cough remedy for children.
Look out for cheap imita-
tions. Get the genuine.
In large and small bottles.
Avoid constipation. Hasten a cure by the
use of Ayer’s Pills.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Purveyors
by Royal Warrant
mSm
To His Majesty
The King.
GUARANTEED PURE,
“MOIR’S”
WORCESTER
SAUCE
Quality & Flavor Unsurpassed.
“MOIR’S ”
GENUINE
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
It is the strongest Meal obtain-
able, Packed in hermetically
sealed tins, and is very fattening
and nourishing.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE BTREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [1
MARTINS
PILLS
A Safe Medicine for Ladies.
The reason is they are purely a vegetable
composition, and expressly suited to the con-
stitution and requirements of women. This
explains the great success and golden opinions
which follow their use. Thousands say they
save all trouble, effectually remove all impuri-
ties of the blood, beautify the complexion, no
headache, no pain, no flushing, no giddiness,
no anxiety. They make work a pleasure, and
existence a joy. Superior to any other known
remedy, Price SI- ■ Sold everywhere. Sole
proprietor, MARTIN, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England!.
MEMORY.
PELMAN’S SYSTEM.
A GOOD MEMORY is essential to success. It is
“ good memory that makes successful men and women
in every sphere of action. It is the possession of a good
memory that enables the worker to profit by learning
and experience. The memory can be < «developed and im-
proved by proper training, just as the muscles of the
body are developed and strengthened by proper exercises.
A course of
PELMAN’S SYSTEM
—OF—
MEMORY TRAINING
will develop your memory to a surprising extent, and put
you on the right road. There is no one who cannot
benefit by the System which has earned the endorse-
ment of the most eminent practical men and women of
the day.
The System is taught by correspondence in a course of
Five Lessons.
Any persons of ordinary education can master it in six
Weeks by half-an-hour’s daily study.
WRITE for FREE COPY of Mr. Pelman’s Booklet.
TlIH! SBT’WP'T’tnV
PELMAN SCHOOL ’OP MEMORY TRAINING,
BOX 402, G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
England— 4 Bloomsbury-street, London ; America—9ol
Whitehall Buildings, New York ; Germany—9 Mozartstr,
Munich ; France—lo 9 Avenue de Neuilly, Paris ; Africa—
Lynne Buildings, Durban, NataL
ROTH WELL’S m
Only Address: EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
The Best Value 8 6 TERAI HAT
in the Commonwealth. 9/6 post paid. All Shades.
BRISBANE’S BIG HAT STORE. [2
p
ranoa
VI
mm
□
c*
\ N
Mft.
kite
7/
C *>
a
. 3M
A HOME TOPIC.
* * *
The Marvellous..
Curative Properties
of „..
Bonnington's
IRISH MOSS
For AFFECTIONS OF THE
LUNGS, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, COUGHS,
and COT.I>S. 3
“I firmly believe that if the children
were well fed our workhouses, gaols and
asylums, would soon be empty.”
Sir JOHN QORST, M.P.
ONE CUP
Delicious OF
PLASMON
COCOA
Equals in nutriment |-lb. Beef or Ten Gups of
ordinary Cocoa.
And is absolutely free from all chemicals.
Aids Digestion. Braces the Nerves.
Invigorates the System.
“It is able to support Life.”— The Lancet.
9
7
J
&
dd^dm
osfi d ddtf/'tSd'
md dzMd/ia&d d
d fid dm/z&d'. -
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Camp and Town.
Over the flat the river flows,
Singing its song in the same old way.
Ripple and eddy its surface shows,
Touched with the gold of a sunset ray ;
The green grass, dotted with daisy-heads,
Like a snow-flecked sheet of emerald, spreads
Over the banks ’neath the gum-trees grey.
Old Time has marked with heedless hand
The winding way where the waters glide ;
Hard-by. the homes of a township stand.
And all of the old bush glories hide.
But to me, as I sit in the closing day,
My thoughts go wandering far away,
Back ’gainst the flowing of time and tide.
Ghosts of the sixties pass again
Over the dusty, trailing track ;
The bullock-team in the lumbering wain,
And I hear the swish as the long whips crack ;
For here, where the ti-tree thickest grew,
Was the crossing-place we teamsters knew,
Ere the axe had driven the bush-line back.
Yet vain are the visions my fancies share
Of bearded mates of the olden days,
Who drank at the inn of its rough-brewed beer —
Of their swearing devil-may-care wild ways—
Those free and easy old times are sped,
When we slept with a blanket of stars o’erhead,
Warmed by the camp fire’s roaring blaze.
On the Christmas days we were loyal souls
To the old-world custom, kind and rough,
And the blackened bucket, over the coals,
Sent savory steam from the boiling “duff.”
It helped our journey to kingdom come
When we washed it down with shanty rum—
Some of the real old deadly stuff.
I miss that crossing of days gone by—
A bridge spans now where the waters play;
Instead of the wild-dog’s startled cry
One hears the house-dog’s watchful bay,
Swelling the sounds of a township’s strife
Like the quickened pulse of a fretful life,
That onward spreads in its listless way.
And a new inn stands where the old inn stood-
And I see the sun slope down to the west—
To an old man’s vision of bad and good,
Some of the old days seem the best;
And I often-think, when I’ve got to go,
I should like to sleep where the waters flow,
Lulled by their lazy voice to rest.
VIO.
T. H. ORD.
Now and Then.
Does a fellow ever wonaer as ne sees his fingers
flying
Across the copy-paper why his digits are so white?
Does he marvel why on earth he took to scribbling
and to lying,
When, just a while ago, he humped a swag and
camped at night
’Mid the box-trees on the billabong, and kicked
some leaves together,
Flopping down to rest upon them, with the Murray
for a view ?
Does he feel ashamed to raise his city gamp to
meet the weather,
When for years the sky was good enough ? If he
doesn’t, well, I do !
Has he ever sat in office, and cast his eye above
him
To the peg whereon reposes his superlative new
hat ?
Does he mind the old felt cady, with the corks
suspended from it,
That he wore from Lower Murray all the way to
Ballarat ?
Would he use that nice hard-hitter to remove a
boiling billy ?
Would he wear a plaited greenhide round the
“ chappo ” that is new ?
Does he hanker after old times till the longing
drives him silly ?
Does he curse the city head-gear ? If he doesn’t,
well, I do !
What about the little handbag that is lying on the
table ?
It contains the morning paper and some sandwiches
for lunch,
And recalls the set of “nosebags” that has never
seen a stable
(It was hell to fill a couple, let alone the blooming
bunch).
When he swaggers in the cook-shop, planking
down a nimble shilling,
He’s bound to think of tucker that has cost him
ne’er a sou—
Of the stations where the storekeeper was any-
thing but willing
Does he hunger for a “Johnny ” ? If he doesn’t,
well, I do.
Does he ever, as he climbs the car and sits upon
the cushion,
Wish the whole caboose to blazes and a saddle
’tween his knees ?
Would he swap the spark electric for old “ Spark,”
the well-bred bush’un,
Or exchange the iron standards for the gnarled
old blue-gum trees ?
When he rises in the morning at eight-thirty
growling badly
At his collar-stud, his razor, or his breakfast all
the time,
Would he chuck the inside billet ? Does he ponder
very sadly
On the days now gone for ever ? If he doesn’t,
well, I do.
M. Ju
CLAUDE JEWELL.


ROThjrhaiyis
ENGLISH WATCHES.
Speciality :—; ■*
MODELE DE LUXE WATCHES
WITH RATE CERTIFICATE.
sold by all
WHO CAN SHO W-
%
/
w*
a
a
Jewellers.
iiiusnunounLoaDCS
%
i
FOREIGN AND OLD
AUSTRALIAN POSTAGE
STAMPS FOR SALE.
Selections on Approval against
References.
Sets and Packets of Stamps, Albums,
&c., Price Lists Post Free.
WALTER A. HULL,
No. 10 Strand, Sydney
CURES
C O UCH and Co1 ° S
V tWFtUENZ*
NERVOUSNESS.
&OSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
jt Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS oi SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It ha 9 cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines A Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c, g &c.
Sous Aoeni fok Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
OSTRICH PLUMES
n
wS^s,
LLERS
Black, White, Cream
Natural, or Black
and White mixed.
5/-
Length, 12 inches.
Post free.
The Feathers we offer
you cannot be bought
for twice the money
in any other house.
They are the best value ever offered
in Australia. Send Postal Note or
Money Order to John Miller.
m
ER'3)
tM I L
S 3
vmit
m
m
From the
Famous Farmi
of South Africa.
Black, White,
Oream, Natural,
or Black and
White mixed.
(18 inches)
> 21/-
As a trimming
nothing can
equal a good
Ostrich Feather
in a Lady’s Hat.
They look soft and graceful, therefore
eminently becoming for young and old.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST POST FREE.
OSTRICH TIPS,
From the Farms of Africa.
Black, White,
Cream, or Black
tipped with White.
Length 10 inches..
3
There’s a charm about
Miller’s Ostrich Tips no
other trimming can imp irt.
Natural Ostrich Boas, 21s. Length 1J yards.
Write to-day. Send postal notes.
HERE’S A BARGAIN,
Two Tips
with Osprey,
Black, White,
Cream, and
Black tipped
with white.
Length, 9 inches
5/-'
The Bunch
Post free.
We make this Special
offer to advertise our Ostrich
Tips. Write to-day
Send Postal Note.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Dept. P., Corner Strand Arcade, PITT ST., SYDNEY
Also at Cor. Bourke and Swahston Sts., Melbourne. Mention Thb Bulletin.
i
The UniTersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructation*, Bilious Affection*.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gratel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine far
Infants, Children,
Delicate Female*,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
1
IS IT POSSIBLE FOR MEN AND HORSES TO COMPETE WITH STEAM POWER ?
Isn’t it obvious that any farmer who makes the largest possible use of steam power will do a given amount of work
at lower cost than his neighbour using men and horses for the same work?
Do YOU want to reduce the cost of your farming operations and increase your profits?
Shall we send you our Buffalo Engine and Thresher Catalogue SHOWING YOU HOW TO DO IT?
We sold 22 of them last month —there must be some reason for it —perhaps it’s a good enough one to interest you.
Our easy terms will be a surprise to you —they are so easy that, bar a small first payment, the engine PAYS FOR ITSELF.
IMT'Send for catalogue NOW, so as to get engine in time for coming season.
OUR ENGINE GANO
DISC PLOUGHS
are savers of money
and labour.
International Harvester Company of America
BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, & LAUNCESTON.
WILL EXHIBIT AT
SYDNEY
SHEEP SHOW.
WILL ANDRADE S BOOKS
BOOK OF NATURE and IL-
LUSTRATED MaRRIAGK GUIDK
by l)r. Faulkner, illustrated
with over f>o engravings,new
1904 edition, hard covers,
improved, 3s 6d. Magic Up-
to-Datk, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Bkginnkrs, illus-
trated, Is. Horsk and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Nkd
Donklly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Maria
Monk, Is 6d How to.
Danck, Is. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
Bd. Nana; Piping Hot;
Rush for tiie Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series,
2s. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter,
Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger
Stump Speeches,' Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldbeads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is; post, ls 3d. How to Play Billiards,
Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. Britain for the British, 6d.
Freemasonry Exposed and Explained, 1905 edi-
tion, with key to all degrees, Is. Cycle Building
and Repairing, new edition, 190 illustrations, Is 3d.
M m fadden’s Physical Training. Is. Virile Powers
of Superb Manhood, ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Hep-
tamkron, and many others, all in cheap edition. Bride
of the First Night, 1/3. Rosario, the Female Monk,
2 . How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing,
1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clair-
voyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is. How
to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing. Is 3d. How to Make Love. Is. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Picture
Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and 6s; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is.
Money Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets,
Is 3d Letter Writer Up -to - Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor. Is. French Art Studies, real
photos, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
Bothner’sScientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Ur, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Saitho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is; post, Is 3d.- Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise. Is 6d. Stolen Sweets. Is6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is, Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s'6d. Ids post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingf.rsoll’B Works, 6d, Is. 2s 6d, and 6s Od.
ANl> ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues :—No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2 : Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5: Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE —.
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
Balsam°>Anisee{f
kFoP
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
Safe for Children.
TRADE
MARK
o*.
ANISEfe®
Of all Chemists & Stores. Be sure
L you get Powell's with above
Trade ilarls.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Thsetricxl and
Domettio History.
Post Frso, is
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of &
SYDNEY
BARMAID
is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining' membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheum atism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, aud all pain 9 of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable Engllmh Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinqdkstue it Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colouies.
Truman'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually deetroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
BOLD IN TWO BIKES, 9d. <fe IS. fld.
N.B. —lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrb & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
DR. LANGSTON'S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment.
NOT BEING
A BELT
it will not burn or blister the
skin— There is nothing to
wear round the body to
foster germs—lt is sure,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
£1 of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
11IUM
for my new book ( illustrated) “Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and wha*- you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S.
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE.
FREE
BY FUST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by tb at justly
celebrated FRENCH HO!--
PITAL PHYSICIAN aid
PARISIAN SPECIALIS'I.
DR. RABONSIII, showbiir sufferers how they may CURL
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLE,-.
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOM ,
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh S:.,
S YTJD2* TJliy.


r
I br
THE NECESSITY
OF
brushing the teeth morning and evening
becomes a pleasure if you 11
ng I
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder
with its delicate perfume and agreeable taste.
It preserves the teeth by thorough
and antiseptic cleansing, and also
gives them the requisite polish
without injuring the enamel.
Calvert’s Prickly-heat Soap
is very serviceable in hot climates as
a preventive of prickly-heat and other
irritation of the skin. It is pleasantly
perfumed and contains 10% Crystal
Carbolic.
These articles can be readily obtained from
most Chemists and Storekeepers.
L.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
A
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Honey in full refunded without qut stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
1 cycles, warranted six years.
Catest
MODELS
£2*lo to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Bim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
200
Second-Hand Cycles
- *o £2.10
Great factory clearance sale at haffactory pricet.
EARN A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
■wanted in each district. Large profits easily reade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our spec '■// using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c..hal f prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO, Dept. 839
LIVERPOOL. LON SON n '"HICAGO.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
H
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engraving's, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama*
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
Sost. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
.epairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kej,ly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. DC - Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
O-
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Cloo Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
SAPnio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
WEAK MEN CURED FREE.
£
\
)//
WE have the most powerful and practical cure
ever yet invented for the positive, certain, and
radical cure of Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak
Back or Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder, and
Stomach troubles, and all other weaknesses of vital
parts; in fact, all chronic diseases. In 20 years we
nave cured 50,000 weak men and women. Our method
cannot possibly fail. No matter what other treatment or belt you
may have used, WE WILL CURE YOU, and we are so positive of
the tremendous therapeutic properties of our latest improved Belt
that we will send our Latest Model Full Power No. 8 Belt complete,
with all attachments, to any person writing us, and you can wear it
for ninety days, and you only
PAY WHEN CURED*
This is the most generous offer yet made, in order thoroughly to
introduce throughout the State this splendid Belt.
Our Belt Generates a Powerful Vitalising Current of
Electricitt, which can be felt the instant applied.
You can wear it at night. It cures while you sleep. If you are weak
or ailing in any way, if you are not the man or woman Nature intended
you to be, then try our Belt. It will cure you. If not, it won’t cost
you a penny.
We have just published a New and Beautifully Illustrated Medical Book,
which is absolutely
FREE TO ALL
writing to us. It will interest and help every adult reading it; so delay no
longer, but write to-day for our FREE BOOK and Powerful Belt. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.. Dept, m.
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving- Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
FRE
QliP
«'• :jlijii 'llm -cTBPi
Brooches, Rings, etc.
GIVEN
AWAY
To persons of either Sex, sending us their Name and
Address we will forward Free 24 Packets of our
“Enamel Tooth Powder and a similar
number of Coupons. Dispose of these 24 Packets among
your acquaintances at the nominal price of 6d each, and
to each purchaser of a Packet give one Coupon, which
entitles that person to a Tooth Brush Free • The continued systematic use of this
Powder soon induces the growth of a Hard, White Enamel Surface on the Teeth,
and thus prevents Decay, removes Tartar and keeps the gums hard and healthy.
In addition imparts a Delicious Fragrance to the Breath.
We don’t ask you to trust us. WE TRUST YOU.
Return the money obtained from the sale oj our Tooth Powders, and we will at
once forward you Free any prize you may select from the premium list of Solid
Gold Articles which we send zvith the pozvders This offer, made for a
limited period to extend our already large connection, is surely the most liberal ever
made by a Reliable Firm. Remember, our Prizes are not Rolled Gold, Gold Filled,
or Gold Pattern, but
(hall marked.) SOLID GOLD , (guaranteed.)
Write to-day.
Free.
THE DENTAL SPECIALTY CO.,
8K Pill STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
QH R F SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
V/ n Cm FOR SORE AND WEAK RYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES eyelashes.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER RAIL.S.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW-TO , PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
MEN’S DISEASES.
Private, Nervous, Skin,
and Blood Diseases, Loss
of Vitality and Vigor,
Rupture, Varicocele, and
all kindred disorders
cured SPEEDILY,
THOROUGHLY, and
PERMANENTLY.
Health, Strength, Vigror, Happi-
ness, Energy, and Ambition
restored by Australasia’s lead-
ing and most sucoessful
Specialist. Has more testi-
monials than any other
Physician in Australasia.
Almost any Practitioner can af-
ford relief ; but men who are weak
and despondent require thorough
and permanent cures. Such cures
are effected daily by Dr. W. Carter
Watson, Chief Physician and Sur-
geon of the
ftydney Institute of
Medioine& Electricity.
He is registered by Government
Medical Boards, and when he
undertakes your case you run no
risk. His methods of treatment
are envied by less skilful Practi-
tioners. He never uses mercury or
other dangerous drugs, and his
remedies are prepared personally in
his private Laboratories. When
he says he will cure you thoroughly
HE IS READY TO BACK HIS STATEMENT
by a forfeit of £250, and testimonials of hundreds of cured patients, not only in Sydney, but from every
town and village in Australasia. He invites you to call and have a confidential chat about your trouble. A
thorough examination and consultation will cost you nothing, and he will explain his methods of making
weak and diseased men Strong, Healthy and Vigorous. It may be that you have been unsuccessfully treated
by numerous practitioners. That is not evidence that you are incurable. It means that the treatment was
administered unskilfully. DR. WATSON offers you correct treatment that will make a man of you, as it has
made of others.
Home Cures by Mail .
DR. WATSON cure* a great many patients every year
without seeing them. This system of treatment is a
— special and scientifically managed Department. If
you cannot call, write at once for a diagnosis blank which covers every symptom. Your case can be
diagnosed as minutely and treated as skilfully in this manner as by a personal interview. His great medical
work, “MALADIES OF MA.NKIND,”
is sent FREE to any address on receipt of sixpence in stamps to defray postage. This large valuable work
contains 53 profusely-illustrated chapters on the functions of the human body, and properly-applied
Electricity as an adjunct to medicine.
FREE ADVICE.
REMEDIEB
Or. W. Carter Watson, M.D.,
Etc.,
Etc.,
Chief Physioian and Surgeon
SYDNEY INSTITUTE of MEDICINE AND ELEOTRIOITY,
70 &. 80 Hunter-at., Sydney
HOURS —
10 to 5 Dally.
Evenings, 7 to 9
Monday, Wednesday
and Saturday.
(Including:
Carriage),
£1
The
‘PLUM’
THB
‘PLUM’
/^J.ENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring's
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. OtL
“ RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Paioa /Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21*
0 \ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 16s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part op the World.
Lp Please add 6d. exchange on Country and It. on Intercolonial Cheques.
8of« Agents) CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDKTE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,'
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
■
All Consignment* of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by eur staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Aocount Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptions! facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.


JAS. HENNESSY & CO., COGNAC.
GUARANTEE. Every drop of Jas. Hennessy & Coy.’s well=known ONE
and THREE STAR BRANDIES is Pure Grape Spirit
distilled from Wine only.
CAUTION. . . The Public should insist upon having Jas. Hennessy &
Coy.’s original bottle and white and gold label as
shipped by them from Cognac.
TARIFF COMMISSION. Extract from the “Lancet” Special Commission on Brandt: “ According to our view it is just as dishonest to desciibe grain spirit and its
congeners as ‘ brandy ’ as it would be to call margarine ‘ butter,’ especially bearing in mind the medicinal applications of
brandy and its special adaptability as distinct from all other spirits for the purpose.”
THE SUNSHINE OF LIFE
Means Abundant Health, Energy, Vigorous Bodily and Mental Activity, accom-
panied by Will Force and the power to compete with everyone in the battle of life.
Is this your condition ?
WHY HAVEN’T YOU GOT IT?
Are your Organs Clogged, Weak, or Dilatory ? Do you throw off the Waste Matters
sufficiently ? You can easily ascertain this, and Tone up the whole Digestive Organs
and Bowels by a course of
LAXATINE,
THE LUBRICATING
LOZENGE LAXATIVE.
The People’s Ideal Aperient, Is. Box.
EASY TO BUY, EASY TO TAKE, PERFECT IN ACTION.
DOES NOT GRIPE OR INCONVENIENCE.
%
ALL CHEMISTS
BUY A WATCH
BUT
%E
l
Buy a good one. It pays in the end. You want a
Watch that will give you perfect time.
H.B. LEVER WATCHES
are unequalled for Timekeeping.
Every Watch is Timed and Examined and
Guaranteed.
Qlq post free
1 ANYWHERE.
Nickel Silver or Gun Metal Cases.
[2].
HEINDORFF BROS., 210 Queen St., BRISBANE.
Price
NESTLES MILK
THE WORLD’S STANDARD. BEST QUALITY.
Nestles Milk Food
FOR CHILDREN.
THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR MOTHER’S MILK.
V/.
4®
I
I
D
A
mmm
1
Resting upon its high standard
of quality, and backed up by the
leading architects of the world,
RUBEROIO ROOFING
continues to increase the strength
of its hold upon public confidence.
E. RiCH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
IN OTHER STATEBI
MELBOURNE—
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd.
ADELAIDE—
A. W. Sandford & Co,
PREMANTLE—J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
LAUNCESTON—
The Tasmanian Woolorowers
Agency Co., Ltd.
HOBART— William Crosby & Co.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.—N0. 1325.
THURSDAY, JULY 0, 1005.
Prick jo.
SINKING.
A French paper recently reported that Australian Half-Premier Reid was going to Europe to swim the English Channel. He is busy
swimming another channel just now, and the land looks a very long way off.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the Australians."'
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ' ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, adv-.rtise-
menls, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not- be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the. contents of this member is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, uihetlier in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To I tint ton rs in Hindi aml "Lite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original hum orous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-draion—urill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Ootch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson Ac Co., 38 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
H. R. Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., 28 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY. JULY 6, 1905.
FOE THE NATION?
At its birth in Australia the Labor party was
charged with being a “class” party, and its first
lispings were directed to a denial of that accusa-
tion—to a claim that it spoke for the people, and
not for a mere section. The fact that, for many
years, the interests of the workers—the artisans
and laborers, the “hands” dependent on wages
for existence—had been neglected was given as a
reason why the party should have on its platform
many planks of an exclusively “ labor” character.
And the reason was sufficient, seeing that the
wage-workers represent the base on which society
rests, and that their interests had been much
neglected in the past. And, in general, the
party has to be credited with a patriotic
purpose. It has met many new issues as they
arose, not always with courage (the failure of
the N.S.W. section to declare for honest finance
at the last elections was a heavy blow to the
party’s reputation), but always with, seemingly,
an honest intention to do what appeared to be the
best for the people. Now approaches a crisis
when the Labor party will be put to a test, crucial
in its history. It has to declare for Protection
and Nationalism or “ Fiscal Agnosticism ” and
Sectionalism at a great crisis in the Common-
wealth’s history.
* * * *
By a series of accidents the Labor party in Aus-
tralia was born without a fiscal policy, just as,
occasionally, a baby is born without arms. The
direct impetus bringing the party to life was
the great Maritime Strike. In that strike the
cliief participants were workmen whose callings
made them easy victims to the Freetrade de-
lusion —coal-lumpers, wharf-laborers, miners arid
shearers, all men to whom the benefits of Pro-
tection are not nearly so obvious (though quite as
real) as to boot-makers, wool-spinners and metal
workers. The Freetrade workmen of N.S.W.,
coming to the sorrowful end of a feverish epoch
during which the borrowing madness had followed
the gold rush and been followed by the land boom,
were tilled with bitterness at the woes coming to
them at the hands of a Freetrade Govern-
ment—at the Gatling guns of M’Millan, the
callousness of Bruce Smith and the carelessness
of Henry Pakkes, dreaming amid the thickets of
his hair while the soldiers were being collected to
shoot down protesting toilers. But these Free-
trade workers didn’t blame Freetrade. The Free-
trade Government they detested, but the Free-
trade principle they still accepted with pathetic
folly. It was not a time for a clear reasoning and
a calm examination of facts, which would have
shown that depression, unemployment and desti-
tution were the natural after-products of the suc-
cessive booms under Freetrade conditions, and
were only to be adequately relieved by a policy of
High Protection to open up factories for the
surplus population, and of financial honesty and
self-reliance to lift the crushing mortgage off the
public estate. Thus the first section of the Aus-
tralian Labor party started life as a “ fiscal agnos-
tic,” and with, if anything, a leaning to Freetrade.
As subsequent sections were organised that mis-
take was not always repeated ; in Victoria
and South Australia the Labor party was from
the first rigidly Protectionist. But when the
various units of the party came to he federalised
into the Australian Labor party there was enough
of the Freetrade element left in the N.S.W. sec-
tion to induce the Federal party to also declare
itself of the neuter gender on the tariff question.
So it has remained to the present time, arid the
Labor conference to meet on July 8 will have to
decide whether it will still remain so.
* a 0
The political circumstances have a good deal
changed since the last session of the Labor confer-
ence. The Labor party in Parliament has won to
a term of office, and in office was obliged to
administer a tariff, and found that it could not
“ sink the fiscal issue.” It did not. declare to the
Customs officials that it was immaterial whether
imports were taxed at the various ports or
not. It did not even adopt a “ sink-the-fiscal-
issue” compromise by tossing up to decide
whether duties should be levied or not —a fair and
reasonable way of deciding a matter which the
party professed to consider utterly unimportant.
The party is also now a claimant for office ag tin,
and a claimant with excellent chances of success,
and, if it gets to the Treasury benches, will not
only have to administer a tariff, but also amend or
refuse to amend a tariff upon the report of the
Tariff Commission, and thus declare itself Protec-
tionist or Freetrade. For the Labor Party to
remain a fiscal neuter under the circumstances will
call for an acrobatic agility superior to that of
even Yes-No Reid. But, important as are these
political changes, they are as nothing to the recent
national developments which bring Australia
within very sight of its day of fiery trial, and
hinge directly on the fiscal issue.
9 * * *
A year ago it seemed as if Australia, if it chose
to be so foolish, could, without danger, drift along
on the old path of laissez faire for another quarter-
century—growing a little wool, herding beasts for
their hides and their tallow, making an odd penny
by delving in the ground for minerals, generally
doing the rough work of Creation and trusting to
a loan to squeeze through a bad winter or a
drought, and borrowing at other times just to keep
its hand in. On this, our little selection, such a life
seemed safe enough—inglorious certainly, but
secure so long as the interest on the mortgage
could be scraped up and the bailiffs kept out.
But all that has changed. With peal of thunder
and flash of lightning, the Yellow Man at our
very door comes to the front as the Warrior of
the Earth, and looks ominously towards our empty
spaces and towards the breaks in our fences, as he
forges his guns and builds his ships. Only a fool
can imagine there is anything of the old security
left. Right in the path of the awakened Mongol,
flushed with victory, stands almost-empty Aus-
tralia, unarmed, with no factories for arms. Even
a fool’s degree of prescience warns Australia to
take steps to save itself or prepare to perish.
Within view of this lonely outpost of the White
Race come the flotillas of Asia, and the garrison
must prepare, soon or late (and it may be very
soon), for stern struggle or inglorious surren-
der. As to which—it is for the Labor party,
more than any other party in the Commonwealth,
to say. That party is now dominant. The
respect it has won in the past by its sinoerity, its
honesty, and its patriotism puts it in the position
of arbiter of the continent’s destiny. If it declares
for the right course that course will be taken. If
it declares for the wrong, the right will be nearly
hopeless of accomplishment
» * * «
As to the essential steps of defence there is no
reasonable question. For defence, Australia must
have arms and the means of making them in Aus-
tralia, and only Protection can give that; must
have more population for the fleet and the-army,
which only Protection can supply; must so
organise its industries that, were the sea set with
hostile fleets, all the processes of civilised life
could still continue, and, again, Protection alone
can supply the want. On these points there is
no room for difference of opinion. The statesman
and the soldier agree that in the event of war
there is no hope for the nation which cannot
supply its own arms and ammunition. Only last
week Major Legge added to the volume of
warning :
When the male population of Australia has to take up
arms in defence of its country, it will be lucky if its
available stores work out to one rifle for every 10 men,
and about four rounds of ammunition per head. And the
arms factory, the shell foundry ? They are in Eng-
land or Germany. The months that should be devoted
by such works to running three shifts a day would be
taken up in a frantic attempt to create the machines we
now prefer to run with foreign labor in a foreign country.
We are living in a fool’s paradise.
And what he, as a soldier, says in regard to gun
factories, any statesman with powers of percep-
tion must echo in regard to locomotive and steel-
rail factories, ship-yards and textile mills. To
face what is to come, Australia needs engines,
ships, steel goods, and fabrics, just as much as
guns and powder.
* * * *
Now, is the Labor party, at this juncture, ready
to strip itself of thedast remnants of its old Free-
trade folly and come out definitely on the National
side, to cast aside all small sectional interests—
which would frighten it with the bogey that a few
lumpers will lose their jobs if the stream of im-
ports is blocked —and declare that it is for the
people as a whole, and for the nation’s safety ? It
is no mere question of day-to-day politics. It is
an issue which touches the very life of Australia.
Should the Labor party fail to "meet the call that
the Commonwealth now makes upon it, Aus-
tralian Nationalists will have to look around for
some other means of salvation. Fidelity to the
Labor party cannot be allowed to bring the nation
to the verge of destruction. Should the Labor
party refuse to take the right course, to follow that
Kwill be to vote against Australia, and
icrats must organise another party which
will be just as much the friend of the masses in
regard to the principal questions of politics, and
will offer in addition some sane hope of maintain-
ing a White Australia. All “Labor legislation”
drops into insignificance beside the prospect of
Australia being over-run by the Mongol, and Aus-
tralians becoming the mean whites of a Japanese
satrapy. That possibility, is near, appallingly
near; beside its imminence, there is nothing else
of anv real importance. The Labor party "must
face that or it betrays Australia.
“THE BULLETIN’S ” ATTITUDE
TOWARDS THE N.S.W. LABOR PARTY.
Holman, M.L.A., writes concerning the State
Labor Party and other things :
The time is at hand when The Bulletin will really have
to make up its mind in State politics as to (1) whether it
is for us ; (2) whether it’s against us; (3) whether the
whole of its powerful intellect is so wrapped up in the
question of dirt-money for Samuel Griffith or for the
interesting capitalists who run the Sunshine Harvester,
that it really can’t be bothered about State politics--t.be
mere management of land and railways and education
and finance — at all. If The Bulletin is going to take up
the third position—that the Tariff and the High Court
are the only tvvo things that the truly intellectual can
bring themselves to think about in the way of politics—
then the sooner the democracy gets warning of it the
better. We can keep off the grass. But if it has
any opinion on public matters on the State’s level,
then that opinion must be either favorable to the
Labor party or hostile. The Labor party is old enough,
and has done enough to be definitely bLssed or banned.
We are entitled to a clear declaration, and not to hinted
ambiguities and hesitated dislikes, such as make up the
articles —one dealing with myself and one with the party—
that appeared in last week’s issue.
The Bulletin alleges that it sees some subtle connec-
tion between the Labor platform and its pet quackery of
High Tariff. We don’t. We want to nationalise indus-
tries as they develop—not to assist by our platform in
building up a fat plutocracy to resist all approach to
nationalisation. The Bulletin asks us to build up great
steel and iron works by a high tariff in order that the
capitalists who run the works may make large fortunes,
and run armies of Pinkertons, and savagely fight every
step we take towards nationalising the works. We are
prepared to wait for the works until the people are ready
to run them on national lines from the start.
If High Tariff is to come in Australia, let those who
have an axe to gr ind barrack for it. The Labor party
won’t. Fiscalistn will never be incorporated with the
Labor programme in New South Wales without a struggle
that will rend the party asunder, and its friends will
leave the proposal alone. Its reception at the January
conference this year was a sufficient indication of the
deep-seated aversion of all Laborites to any banging on
the fiscal drum in their midst. It was brought up there—
temperately and intelligently—by one of the most pro-
mising of the country delegates. The previous question
was immediately moved and carried (I think without a
division) by a gathering in which Watson, McGowen and
all other well-known Protectionists of the Labor party
were present.
It is only necessary to steadily read The Bulletin
through to find all the reasons that a Labor man wants in
this State in favor of doing what we are doing. Thus in
p. 22 of this issue The Bulletin exhibits a picture of John
Bull closing the door (at last) against the undesirable
alien. That undesirable alien consists, in England, mostly
of the artisan who comes out of liigh-tariff Germany. The
High Tariff which The Bulletin wants us to adopt has
been adopted in the Fatherland. It hasn’t so far made
the lot of German labor so bright and happy that it stays
there with enough enthusiasm to make an Alien Exclusion
Act unnecessary in Great Britain. The Exclusion Act is
necessary only because the Germans won’t stay at home
and bask in the blessings of High Tariff. Some of the
I.abor party have been in England (which apparently
The Bulletin hasn’t) and know this (which apparently
The Bulletin doesn’t). I am one of them. I can’t
enthuse worth a cent over High Tariff or any other
tiscalist proposal. All the same I have nothing to do with
Freetrade principles. If this country is capable of any
new industries I am quite prepared to start ’em to-
morrow—on a collective basis. But I don’t propose to
amend the Labor platform so as to allow an Australian
Carnegie or Pierpont Morgan to collect his 30,000,000
dollars for starting ’em for us (under the name of High
Tariff).
Apparently The Bulletin isn’t playing chaneys with any
of the State (N.S.W.) Labor party at present mainly
because that party will follow their own platform, and
not the one thoughtfully provided for them in The
Bulletin columns. Still, I am always willing to take
my share of any frigidity Tiie Bulletin has to deliver.
I am glad, in fact, at all times to see my name in print.
But I certainly think that The Bulletin, before dealing
it out, even to a N.S.W. Labor man, might get up its
facts. The hostile rags misrepresent them enough,
without the allegedly friendly following suit. I had no
share at all in the resolution carried by the unemployed
meeting at the Statue. I went to that meeting as an
emissary from the Labor party (which was then caucus-
ing on various matters), to tell the meeting that the
party would receive the deputation at any later and
more convenient day. Having delivered this message,
and made a few appropriate remarks, I went away, and
had no more knowledge than the dead of the resolution
the meeting then proceeded to carry.
* * * *
To which The Bulletin replies as briefly as
possible (it isn’t easy to follow up the track of so
much “ sass” and ignorance in a small space):—
The first paragraph of Mr. Holman’s letter is a cheeky
piece of misrepresentation. It isn’t for The Bulletin to
make up its mind about its attitude towards the
N.S.W. State Labor party, but for that party to
decide on its own attitude towards its own prin-
ciples, and towards the most urgent questions of the
day. Re" the mere management of land and railways
and education and finance,” for example. The Bulletin
has a definite financial policy, and stands by it— the no-
borrowing policy. The State Labor party also professes
to have a policy, the main plank of which is that no new
loan works should be undertaken except such as will pay
interest and sinking fund. It doesn’t stand by its policy ;
in fact, it never says a word about it now, and apparently
it has forgotten that it has a loan policy.
As to railways and general finance, The Bulletin has a
distinct policy, which is, that all land revenue should be
set aside for railways and other public works.
It lias urged Mr. Holman’s party for years to
adopt this idea, and it hasn’t even been able to get
an answer. The Labor party doesn’t say definitely either
“yes” or “no.” It is practically impossible to get it to
say anything about finance. The Bulletin also advocates
the federalisation of the railways with a view to establish-
ing a uniform gauge, but it can’t find out whether the
State Labor party is for this or against it.
Further, in land matters, The Bulletin has called out
during a long procession of year? for a graduated land-
tax—one heavy enough to break up the large estates
wholesale and keep them broken up, while the Labor
party accepted Reid’s non-graduated tax and was
content—or else asleep. It is a very long time now
since the N.S.W. State Labor party has made any
serious move in the direction of a graduated land-tax.
Again, The Bulletin (really) and the N.S.W. State
Labor party (nominally) urges the need for a
complete Local Government system. Yet the Labor
party allows one of its prominent members (Niel-
sen) to denounce Local Government because it
involves levying rates in country districts. This
paper’s complaint against the N.S.W. State Labor
party is that it has no financial policy except drift, no
loan policy except on paper, no public works policy ex-
cept a policy of let-it-slide, not much land-tax policy save
in theory, and no visible railway policy except a policy of
occasionally inquiring why some official was suspended.
On many of the largest questions of the day Tiie Bulletin
can’t tell whether it is for the State Labor party or against
it till the State Labor party gets into a more active con-
dition.
* * • *
To the question whether The Bulletin’s intellect is
mostly wrapped up in the problem of dirt-money for “ the
interesting capitalists who run the Sunshine Harvester,”
the answer is “ No;” A good deal of its intellect is de-
voted to a class which Mr. Holman seems to forget—the
workmen who used to be employed in Australian imple-
ment works till the Freetrade policy which Mr. Holman
advocates turned them out on a cold world for the benefit
and profit of the interesting capitalists who run the
American Harvester Combine. Has Mr. Holman no
gibe to throw at the foreign manufacturer whose
stuff comes here, or does he keep all his wrath
to heap on Australian industry ? And is he such a
slave to that interesting capitalist, the great im-
porter, who sends here the output of the foreign non-
unionist, that he has no jeer to throw at him V The im-
porter is much richer, as a rule, than the Australian
manufacturer, and lives in a better house, and keeps more
flunkeys, and votes the anti-Socialist ticket much more
regularly. He and his Freetrade supporters are the
whole box and dice of the anti-Socialist league, yet' Mr.
Holman has not a word to say in condemnation of the
importing class. It is a question if that gentleman even
took the trouble to find out, before he wrote his letter, if
the Sunshine Harvester people were one-quarter as
financially bloated as many Of the dealers in foreign
goods.
Further the statement in Mr. Holman’s letter that The
Bulletin wants Australia “ to build up great steel and
iron works by a high tariff in order that capitalists who
run the works may . . . run armies of Pinkertons,,” &c., is
a falsehood. There is no other word that can express so
monstrous an assertion. Tun Bulletin wants to build
up great iron and steel works and hundreds of other
works in order to show that with Arbitration laws, eight
hour laws, factory legislation, and other items of the
Labor programme it is possible to have industries without
slavery, riot and civil war. This paper has faith i i that
kind of legislation. Apparently Mr. Holman has none;
he seems to hold that it will do no good whatever, and it
almost looks as if he has been voting for it simply by way
of ornament and ham-frill.
And Mr. Holman says : “If this country it capable of
any new industries I am quite prepared to start them to-
morrow.” It is difficult to remember when any worse
insult was thrown at the Australian workers. There are
thousands of them wanting work, and there are scores of
industries that might be established here merely to supply
our own wants—to supply ourselves with goods that are
now imported for the great profit of that interesting
capitalist, the anti-Socialistic M’Millan, and his friends.
But Mr. Holman, it would seem, isn’t sure that the
workers whom he is supposed to represent are capable of
carrying on these industries. The European, the Ameri-
can, even the Asiatic, are capable enough, but as to the
Australian, Mr. Holman has doubts. It is just possible,
it would seem, that all he is fit for is to make roads paid',
for out of loans.
Yet though Mr. Holman won’t advocate the creation of
any profitable, necessary and self-sustaining works until
they can be started on the basis of collective ownership,
he is apparently not at all-particular about pawning the
country to the individual capitalist. No one was more-
definite in his refusal to countenance the anti-borrowing
movement than Mr. Holman. He has no objection to
the country being mortgaged, body and soul, to Car-
negie and Pierpont Morgan. The Bulletin has an objec-
tion. It wants to see our greatest industry, the railways,
run on a true collective basis —not merely to earn interest
for foreign capitalists.
» » c *
The Bulletin, as Mr. Holman says, has not been in-
England ; but its conductors mostly have, which is much
the same thing. The writer of this spent 18 years in the
British isles. When he was 16 he earned his own living in
that wonderful Freehrade country—the living was 6s. a
week. In his worst days his address was in a
tenement house in Cobden-street—anyone seeing the
street would recognise the beautiful fitness of the name-
in the St. Rollox district of Glasgow, where the factories
try to run on a Freetrade basis. The writer knows the
slums of four great Freetrade cities with the knowledge
that comes of living in them. Mr. Holman, apparently,
doesn’t know much of the United Kingdom. For instance,
its aliens are not mostly, as he says, “the artisan who
comes out of high tariff Germany',” though he professes
to have discovered that non-existent fact by personal
observation. At the census of 1901 there were in
England and Wales 247,758 aliens, of whom 49,133
were Germans. The German residents in England
decreased between 1891 and 1901. (The English resi-
dents in Germany increased in the same period,
but that is another anecdote.) Germany only started
Protection in a small way in 1879, and apparently, as
old Fatherland began to brighten up under the new
regime, and to recover from the effects of Mr.
Holman’s policy, some Germans left for homo
again—or for the United States. Germany in 1903
(the last year dealt with by the Statesman’s Year
Boon) sent out 36,310 emigrants, of whom 33,649 went to
the Protectionist United States, and 856 booked, for Free-
trade Britain. In the same year Freetrade Britain, with a
smaller population than Germany, sent out 449,006 immi-
grants, of whom 259,950 were British born, the others
being foreigners in transit. Of these 259,950 fully 230,000
were bound for Protectionist countries. Nearly half the
aliens who come to Britain nowadays are from the Russian
empire (a country which is mainly agricultural, as Mr.
Holman wants Australia to be). These immigrants are
mostly Jews, and they are very largely those Jews who
are too poor to reach the United States, or too diseased to
pass the inspection of the United States immigration
officers in Europe. Britain doesn’t attract foreigners to
anything like the extent that France and Germany do,
as the proportion of the respective alien populations
proves But it gets a worse class—a class that other lands
won’t take.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Labor party, in Mr. Holman’s opinion, is
“ old enough, and has done enough, to be definitely
blessed or banned.” Well, it is almost impossible to bless
it, and difficult to wholly ban it. It has good principles,
but not nearly enough of them, and it seems to have
forgotten some of the most important of. those it
has. On the most urgent questions of all it refuses
to have any definite ideas. It tacitly connives at out-
rageous financial swindles and shameful faking of the
public accounts. And Mr. Holman personally (though it
is to be hoped that he isn’t a fair sample) seems to regard
the man who supplies work, even at good wages, for
Australian artisans as a malefactor. When new in-
dustries are spoken of he seems to have borrowed
the Argus phrase—the “time is not yet ripe.” He is
“ prepared to wait ” and borrow money. He represents
the worst class of Protectionist —the one who wants to
indirectly protect the foreign artisan, the foreign manu-
facturer, the foreign importer, the foreign non-unionist
and sweater against the Australian manufacturer, how-
ever fair the last-named may be. He believes in handi-
capping- the Australian manufacturer with necessary but
expensive restrictions in the matter of short hours, decent
wages, factory sanitation, &c.; then tells him to compete
on Freetrade terms against the foreigner, who isnot so ham-
pered. When he has failed, and lost his money, and closed
his factory, and turned his workmen adrift, Mr. Holman
seems quite satisfied. If he is only in the process of being
ruined, or still makes 2 or 3 per cent, or so, Mr. Hol-
man calls him an “interesting capitalist.” When the im-
porting company, which Mr. Holman seeks to indirectly,
but none the less surely, protect against the Australian
manufacturer and workman, declares a dividend of
8 per cent, or more, Mr. Holman says nothing—at
least, if he has said anything, it must have been said
in a very low voice. As regards the workman who
is unemployed because of the imports of the wealthy
Tory merchant whom Mr. Holman doesn't denounce, he
will get a job when industry is started on a collective
basis, and that, so far as Mr. Holman is concerned, will be
when Mr. Holman is “convinced that the country is
capable,” &c. But it may be a long time before
a fluent lawyer, who doesn’t seem to take the
least interest in the matter, is convinced, and
until we get industries we can’t get men, and while
Mr. Holman is waiting the time keeps drawing nearer
when we will want men to defend Australia, for that time
comes to every country. We are the most defenceless
white man’s country on earth —the least populated, the
furthest from European assistance, the nearest to Asia,
and the one against which, by reason of our White Aus-
tralia policy, Asia is most aggravated. And Mr. Holman
is “ prepared to wait.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Crisis.
G. H. Reid is always kicked out with emphasis.
He gets to office by trickery, keeps office by
trickery, and when his bag of tricks is ex-
hausted, collapses dramatically. It was so in
New South Wales, where he was turned out of
office by the biggest majority the House had
known on a censure vote. It is so again in
the Australian Parliament where a record division
has cast him from the office which he stained by
holding. There is no doubt that in a measure
he specifically invited dismissal on this
occasion, and a reason for that will probably
be found in his knowledge that a full dis-
closure of the facts in regard to the High Court
made his contemptuous dismissal sure within a
week or two, and he was satisfied to lose a week
of office for the chance of getting a dissolution
and a consequent two months’ extension of power.
What is to be the outcome of the present situation
is as yet uncertain. The one stable Administration
possible in this Parliament, and in agreement with
the views of the mass of the people, would be a
Watson-Dkaictn coalition. That is what Aus-
tralia will hope for as the outcome of the crisis,
for that alone will put an end to the present
muddle of politics.


“Colonial Rubbish.”
By way of another evidence of the fact that the
way of the N.S.W. manufacturer is hard the fol-
lowing item, extracted from a Sydney morning
paper, has some points of interest: —
In the midst of a discussion on Imperial Federation, at
the Royal Society’s Rooms, yesterday, the ladies of the
British Empire League suddenly found themselves
involved in an argument as to the respective merits of
imported and Australian goods. It had its beginning in
the contention of one of the speakers that patriotism,
like charity, should have its beginning at home—in re-
spect to the choice of wearing apparel, at all events.
“ For instance,” she said, “ I do not see why ladies cannot
have costumes of colonial tweeds, just as some of the
young men are having their suits made of it.” Then
Dr. Grace Boelkk arose, and took the opportunity to
remark that “ If Australian goods were only second-rate
in appearance and quality, manufacturers only had them-
selves to blame if they suffered in consequence.” She
added, in effect, that unless a nearer approach to quality
and fashionable patterns could be obtained, she, for one,
declined to wear Australian tweeds.
Yet Australian tweeds, small as is the demand for
them, are made in a vast number of excellent
patterns, and the quality is generally far better
than that of the imported article, which unpatriotic
Australians delight to praise at the local article’s
expense. As a rule, when the Australian manu-
facturer turns out a first-class sample, the
Imperial Federation kind of person calls it
“colonial rubbish” without even looking at it.
The writer of this recently got a collection
of samples from Vicars’ tweed factory at Marrick-
ville, Sydney. It was a very fine collection, and
quite as good, probably, as anything Dr. Grace
Boelke ever purchased, so perhaps that lady only
denounced the goods on spec, and without inspec-
tion. Writer also got the names of retail tailors who
dealt in these goods. One of them was asked to
make a suit of Marrickville tweed, but he repu-
diated the idea of ever keeping such trash, and
did it with the air of a maligned tailor who was
clearing his character of a suspicion of crime. In-
spection revealed four undeniable samples of
Marrickville tweed in his shop—probably there
were many more, but these were certainties —but
they were all passed off as imported, lest the
custom of the Imperial Federation class of person
should be alienated. In Sydney many of the
finest bedsteads are of local manufacture, but
quite a number of traders dare not tell the public
so, lest the goods should either be rejected
altogether or prove only saleable at half
the price of imported rubbish. Yet the
bedstead-making industry has been established
in Sydney for three generations. Similarly,
the bootmaker, who makes high-class goods, lias
to pass off his best wares as American, lest they
should be scorned and rejected by the Australian
Imperial Federation patriot. The person who
manufactures in N.S.W. may make a proud dis-
play of his factory, and get it paragraphed in the
Freetrade papers, but because of people like Dr.
Grace Boelke, he has to disguise his goods as
carefully as if they were a dead body with the axe
still sticking in its skull. And he must expect to
be denounced at the Imperial Federation meet-
ing as a purveyor of rubbish ; and, even when he
is only making one-fourth the income of a second-
rate importer, Holman, M.L.A., when he finds
him employing Australian workmen, is liable to
allude to him scornfully as a “capitalist;” and
though he pays twice or three times the railway
freight charged to the farmer on his produce, a
person signing himself “Rupert Clarke ’ is
almost certain to write to the Herald, denouncing
him as a parasite who makes thousands at the ex-
pense of the Railway Department. On the whole,
it pays better to be an importer. The Bulletin
has serious thoughts of importing a doctor next
time its corn feels worse than usual.
4 7
The Two Treasurers—Bent and Carruthers.
A STRANGELY boneless and imitative individual is
Premier Carruthers, of New South Wales. A
week or two ago Premier Bent, of Victoria, who
isn’t imitative except in the matter of his wonder-
ful and life-like copy of a bear in politics, made a
startling announcement to his constituents at
Brighton. He stated that during the financial
year he had paid off more old debt out of revenue
than he had incurred in the way of new debt, so
that, for almost the first, if not quite the first,
time in 50 years an Australian State had started
to absolutely reduce its aggregate liability out of
revenue. He also forecasted a surplus, available
for public works and land resumptions, of some-
thing like £500,000 (taking the latest estimates).
Bent broke up all precedents by thus making an
informal financial statement outside Parliament,
but the result—even if a good deal of it was
achieved by shady means—was so magnificent
that a less vain man than Bent might have been
excused for breaking out. Then Premier
Carruthers of N.S.W. came in like an echo with
his little yap of emulation—with several yaps, in
fact—of which the following is a sample yap as
summarised in the morning papers :
Yesterday closed the financial year, and Mr.
Carrutiiers, the Premier and Treasurer, was able to
announce the gratifying result that he closed his accounts
for the 12 months with a net surplus of £187,173. As in
bis Budget, he only estimated a surplus of £84,000, the
Treasurer is to be congratulated upon having bettered his
i stimate by the handsome margin of over £lOO,OOO. In
addition to the surplus, the public debt has been reduced
during the year out cf revenue by £275,000, so that the
amount of revenue received over and above the cost of
Government was £462,000.
Carruthers’ estimates was afterwards altered a
little, but the sham remained the same. So this
and similar statements went all round the coun-
try, and the natural result is that a large section
of the community feels quite relieved, and
N.S.W. can go riotously into debt and extrava-
gance without Premier Carruthers being
troubled with many unpleasant remonstrances.
Yet things in N.S.W. are just about as bad as
ever; the only difference is that the artful gloss of
a new and oily misrepresentation has been spread
over the old disease. The exact difference between
Bent’s reduction of debt and Carrutiiers’ reduc-
tion, and between the surplus which Bent offers
and the one which Carruthers offers, is j ust about
this:—
(1) Bent, if his accounts stand careful audit, has bor-
rowed £164,000 during the year, and repaid out of revenue
£226,000. This makes a net reduction in the Vic. Public
Debt of £62,000.
(2) Carrutiiers has borrowed £2,489,332, and has paid
off £319,412 (his extravagant predecessor, Waddell, paid
off about £369,000). Carruthers, taking credit for the
debt he has paid off, and saying nothing about the debt
he has incurred, calls this reducing the public debt by
£319,412. It is really a case of increasing it by over
£2,100,000.
(3) Carruthers has charged to loans a large amount of
unproductive expenditure, which should have been met
out of revenue, and has charged all his productive works to
loans. Bent, not having loans to charge his ordinary
expenditure to, has apparently paid it, and also paid for
his reproductive works, out of revenue.
(4) Carruthers promises a surplus of £187,000 after
using over £1,800,000 of land receipts—more than
half being the proceeds of land sales—a 3 revenue.
If the Im. S. W. land revenue were set aside as a
Public Works Fund (which it should be) JosErir 0. would
have about £1,600,000 deficit.
(5) Bent promises a surplus of about £500,000 (at latest
estimates) after using about £400,000 of land receipts
(rent and sale proceeds) as revenue. If the Victorian
land revenue were set aside as a Public Works Fund
(which it should’ be), Thomas B. would have a surplus of
about £lOO,OOO. The difference between £lOO,OOO surplus
and £1,600,000 deficit is one of the visible differences
between Bent and Carrutiiers.
(6) Bent’s surplus is to be made up after the expenditure
account has been kept open till August (the revenue
account closed on the 30th June) so that all hills
properly chargeable to the year may be paid and deducted
from the surplus.
(7) Carrutiiers’ surplus is to be arrived at by closing
the expenditure account with a bang on June 30. All of
the year’s accounts not paid on that date will not be
deducted from the surplus. In fact, in N.S.W. the
accounts close with such deadly accuracy that a large
payment covering interest on debt from January I to
June 30 is not included. This sum leaves the N.S.W.
Treasury about the middle of June, when it is handed
over to the bank in London as agent for the bondholders,
but because it doesn’t reach the actual bondholders till
July 1 it is reckoned as cash in hand on June 30. George
Reid first devised this political swindle, the result being
that, in the first year of the swindle, though the annual
interest on the Public Debt was about £2,500,000, lie only
charged his accounts with something under £x,000,000.
That was the source of his one famous surplus—the one
which was scornfully repudiated by State-Statistician
Oogiilan, by Auditor-General Rennie, and by two com-
mittees of inquiry, though the S.M. Herald and Sydney
Telegraph swore to its accuracy.
On Monday last the S. M. Herald spoke in mild
—very mild—deprecation of Carruthers’ out-
rageous fake. But the Telegraph published in
its financial column, in small type, the figures
showing that Joey’s net borro wings were
£2,489,332, and his sinking fund repayments only
£319,412, so that he had increased the N.S.W.
debt by over £2,100,000. Then, in its news columns
it shrieked in huge capitals: “SOLVENT!
PUBLIC DEBT REDUCED!” And it is
largely because of papers like the Telegraph that
N.S.W. can’t get clean finance.
.—_— >
The Real Brigands.
A very favorite gag of Bogey-man Reid’s in his
anti-Socialistic shriek is that Socialism means
confiscation. When the State goes into an enter-
prise, is it going to compensate the private enter-
prise which it knocks out ? he asks. . Somebody,
of course, says “ No !” It is usually a Fat party
who speaks in great scorn ; but G. Reid disre-
gards that circumstance, adjusts his eye-glass, and
says: “Exactly! I wanted that admission, and
I have got it. Then you mean confiscation,
spoliation, robbery. Gentlemen, I ask you”—
and so on. G. Reid learned this gag from the
other M‘Lean, who, posing as a very
practical Scotch person, wanted to know where
the Socialists were going to get the money from to
buy up everything with, and what the people
who were bought out were going to do with the
money when the) 7 got it, seeing that the State was
going to own everything. In the first place,
the Labor party doesn't propose either to buy
up or to otherwise get hold of everything. If
either Premier said he was going for a walk, and
set off to the south, nobody would feel justified in
telling him to take snow-shoes, or ask him how he
was going to keep himself warm when he got in
the shadow of the South Pole. Nevertheless both
cheerfully assume that the Labor party
fs going to the South Bole, and when the Labor
party isn’t prepared to say what it is going to do
when it gets there, simply because the South
Pole isn’t in its programme, G. Reid says
“Exactly!” in the tone of one of Bland
Holt’s young men who knows now how he
can lay out the villain in the sth act. Mean-
time G. Reid carefully doesn’t mention what
Private Enterprise does under similar circum-
stances to those he mentions. Reid and his
crowd cut down Kingston’s tariff and let in the
Yankee Harvester Trust, which is slowly strang-
ling Australian Private Enterprise. What com-
Sensation is the foreign Trust giving Private
Interprise—our own knocked-out Private Enter-
prise ? What compensation does Private Enter-
prise ever give to the Private Enterprise which
it knocks out ? What compensation does the
Trust ever give to the factory which it closes?
What compensation does the big manufacturer or
trader give to the little manufacturer or trader
whom he shuts up ? The only compensation, in
fact, that knocked-out Private Enterprise ever
does get is from the State. When the big brewer
wipes out the little brewer, the big brewer
never dreams that the little brewer has
any claim for compensation. But when the State
decides that some of the same big brewers’ hotels
shall be closed, there is a demand from the State
for compensation, and, further, that demand is
allowed. And the people who shriek loudest
against State compensation are George Reid’s
anti-Socialistic clerical and Joe-Cook friends.
In one breath they yell that the wicked State
means to confiscate ; in the next, when the State
shows that it won’t confiscate, even in a question-
able case, they rage at it because it won’t. In
every relation the State shows far more considera-
tion when it interferes with Private Enterprise
than Private Enterprise itself does. It shows, in
fact, much more than consideration. The N.S.W.
Government interfered lately with some wharfage
business; and the State paid about twice
the value that the owners themselves set upon the
Eropertv in their own balance-sheets. The Electric
light Department in Melbourne lately found
two or three small concerns in its way. Private
Enterprise of the size of the Melbourne city
undertaking could have crushed them like so
many small beetles, and passed on. The Socialistic
enterprise paid full value and a bit more. The
State in South Australia, sometime back, resolved
to take over the last of the privately-owned rail-
ways there. A quarter of a century ago Private
Enterprise had fought for the Glenelg traffic and
two lines were built. Private Enterprise with the
longest purse knocked the other line out, bought
it for a fraction of its value, and practically shut
it up. But the State took both lines over and
paid handsomely for them—for the useless line as
well as the other. The Socialistic confiscation
bogey is the hollowest, stupidest sort of a
bogey; and a thousand instances prove it s q.
So far from the State collaring things for nothing,
it is a hard and discreditable fact that the State
is, under such circumstances, always regarded as
something that may rightfully be robbed and
taken down. It is Private Enterprise that is the
plunderer.
*
The Great Hide Industry.
There is no further doubt. The great natural
resource, the chief primary industry in New
South Wales, is the production of Hide.
T. M. Slattery— or should it bo the Hon.
T. M. Slattery, M.L.C. ?—was scarcely out
of the grip of the sheriff before he was
parading the chief street of Sydney to
receive the congratulations of his friends. On
what? On the fact that a gap in the law makes
it impossible to punish his huge misappropria-
tions, and releases him from a gaol to the
hospitality of which he had a moral, if
not a legal claim. A sense of our com-
mon human weak ness would suggest a charit-
able silence as to Mr. Slattery if he were to
assume a fitting attitude of reticence, and not
loom up in conspicuous places, heralded bv the
fiomp and blare of a mirror-like plug hat and the
oud remonstrance of a fresh tad-coat. But
chanty is choked by the impudence of the man
who wears his legal technicality as if it were a
halo, and sits on his shortage as if it were a throne.
Mr. Slattery —if that is any apology—beats the
loud drum of advertisement in abundant company,
lhe name of another ex-solicitor, who was sen-
tenced to gaol for a particularly noisome con-
spiracy, and by a judicial lapse escaped that
punishment, crops up now prominently in the life
of a certain suburb. Tie spv -ks at public meetings,
has even occupied the pulpit now and again in a
church. His Hide is proof against scorn. Mr.
R. D. Meagher (to cite another example from
the legal profession), whose connection with
the Dean case suggested to him once that he
should hide his shame and his guilt in a foreign
land, now blaz'n.s it out with the best of them in
Sydney public life, and was, according to the evi-
dence before the Lands Commission, disclosed the
other day as carrying on the business of a land
agent, and using the people’s stationery to urge
the people’s tenant not to pay the people’s rent.
These do not, by any means, complete the
list of culprits who should hide their heads,
but, instead, pedestal themselves in public. But
they are the most notable at the moment. Hide,
thick, tough, impervious Hide, is evidently a pro-
duct which New South Wales can grow to perfec-
tion on its public men’s cheek. There should be
some commercial advantage in the product. But
to utilise it would involve a preliminary process
of flaying, and as a community we are too soft-
hearted to give impudence anything but a tacit
approval.
♦
The Argentine Tariff.
Sydney Evening News contrived the other day
to produce a lengthy leading article on the great
rush of immigrants to Argentina, as compared
with the lack of them in Australia, without once
mentioning that Argentina was a country which
finds work for immigrants by building up manu-
factures under a weighty Protectionist tariff,
and that the great rush of immigrants only com-
menced when that tariff was imposed. Nominally
the Argentine tariff averages 30 per cent, all
round, but according to Australian ideas it is more
like 80 per cent., for the law fixes the value
of the goods imported, and the imports which
Argentina puts down as worth £lOO. and on which it
charges £3O duty, would, on Australian valuations,
be worth about £4O. For instance, if anyone sends
belltopper hats to Argentina he is met on the
wharf by a cold, bitter-minded tariff, which says,
in Spanish : “We don’t want to see your invoice.
It doesn t matter to us whether it is correct or
not. The law says that belltoppers are worth
13s. 4d. each, and the duty is supposed to be 50
per cent., but we call it Bs. per hat.” And that
man either parts Bs. for each belltopper or else
takes his belltoppers away out of Argentina.
After that, it seems quite natural to learn that
there were, in 1901, 227 Argentine hat factories
employing 6700 hands. Similarly, the Argen-
tine law says that ordinary men’s boots
are worth Bs. per pair wholesale, and
the duty is 50 per cent. —4s. per pair.
And the man who, in Australia, would pro-
duce an invoice showing that the boots were
worth 2s. 6d. a pair, and get off, even if we
charged 50 per cent., with Is. 3d. duty, either
pays up the 4s. or takes away the boots. It is the
same in most lines. So Argentina gets immi-
grants, and its Year Book mentions casually that
in 1901 there were 6317 factories in the country
for the manufacture of articles of wearing apparel
alone, and of these 5566 had been established by
immigrants. In 1901 the total number of Argen-
tine factories owned and worked by foreign immi-
grants was 20,532. That is to a great extent what
the immigrant rushes to Argentina for when he
learns about the tariff—though the Freetrade press
always conveys the idea that he goes there solely
to “ get on the land.”
«.
The Call for a Land Bank.
TheS.M. Herald considered the “shares” system
of farming the other day, and came to the sensible
conclusion that it was vile. The system “kills
the initiative of the men who work under it, de-
presses their ambition, and forces them into the
same rut in which most tenant farmers live and die.
As a rule, the shares man who leaves his tempo-
rary holding sets out to a new district to make
another similar agreement, or takes up his swag,
or mounts his horse and goes looking for work on
wages.” These men “devote the best years of
their life to making profits out of the land
for the landholder.” The Herald suggests,
as a way out, “that the State should throw
open large areas.” But the Herald ought
to specify where those large areas are, instead of
waving a paw, in a lordly Jenkins way, and
telling the Lands Department to “do the thing
properly.” Lately the Government cut up an estate
which looked far better country than any, barring
perhaps a few small blocks, which the State has at
command ; and the N.S.W. shares farmers, though
they are little better than helots, hardly applied at
all. The fact is that they haven’t got the neces-
sary capital. They can go into the shares business
because they get land, implements, stock, seed,
everything but labor supplied them. But they
can’t go into business on their own account because
they haven’t the money, and there isn’t a Land
B ink to help them. How far the Maoriland Land
Bank has been responsible f or th e remarkable growth
of settlement there nobody can, of course, say for
certain ; but even an outside observer, like Rider
Haggard, reporting as a Commissioner appointed
by the British Government to inquire into the
whole matter of agricultural settlement, describes
it as a “brilliantly successful” scheme. There
certainly was no striking increase of settlement
till the Land Bank did arrive ; and since it has
arrived it has aided 12,356 settlers. Further,
its existence has decided men who never
have applied for anything to become settlers;
for they know that it is there if they
should want it. N.S.W. Premier Carruthers is
therefore cordially encouraged to go ahead with
his scheme for the amalgamation of the Savings
Banks, or with any other scheme that will hatch
an effective Land Bank. The fact that close upon
half-a-million of acres are cultivated in N.S.W.
on the blood-sucking shares system every year, yet
there was no rush for the lands recently thrown
open for closer settlement, proves that something
more is wanted; and a Land Bank seems to be that
something. And if the Fat party says anything
about shocking interference with Private Enter-
prise, as of course it will, two things may be
pointed out —one for its confusion, the other for
its comfort. The first is that monev-lending isn’t
the only Private Enterprise in the world, and
that farming is Private Enterprise too ; the other
that, in Maoriland, where the Land Bank idea
has been carried farthest, the profits of Private
Enterprise banks are by far the highest in Austral-
asia, and probably about the highest in the world.
♦
Horace Tozer, Agent-General for Queensland, is
reported to have publicly stated in London that
the fear of Socialistic legislation in Australia is
retarding the country, and “preventing the
investment of from £20,000,000 to £40,000,000.”
Australia has put up with Tozer for a long- time,
and this last effort of his, if the report is true,
suggests that that mean and shabby backbiter is
about due to be called to order. It is the duty of
the Queensland Government, which employs
Tozer, to get from him a statement of the sums
which make up that twenty or forty millions, the
names of the people who own the money, par-
ticulars of what Australian industries it was
going to be invested in, and explanations as to
what present or possible item of Socialism pre-
vented the investment, and who supplied the
alleged investor with information about that
present or future Socialistic danger. When
Tozer has furnished these facts, the Queens-
land Government should apply to the
alleged capitalists for corroboration. And if
the statements and the corroboration are
not forthcoming it should give Tozer the alterna-
tive of being dismissed, or of publicly acknow-
ledging himself a dealer in falsehood and a low-
down slanderer of the country which provides
him with a much better living than his abilities or
services deserve. Further, if Tozer prefers dis-
missal, the Queensland Government should publish
in England, fully and clearly, the reason of his dis-
missal ; and even if he prefers to apologise and
retract, he should only retain his position on his
assurance that he will be|a much more reliable
Tozer in the future.
♦
Will the Federal Labor party take its eye fora
moment off the bubble on the place where it sank
the fiscal issue, and read the names of the speakers
on the day of the great “ Anti-Socialist ” rally as
given in the Sydney papersFreetrader' George
Reid, of the Dry Dog; Freetrader and importer
M ‘Millan, of the chiffon department; Freetrader
Gould, of the icy smile; Freetrader Kelly, of the
fast motor-car; Freetrader Jessep, of the onion
store ; Freetrader Storey, of the hats; Freetrader
Dugald Thomson, of nothing in particular .; Free-
trader Joseph Cook, the Labor renegade ; Free-
trader Bruce Smith, of the superior aspect; Free-
trader Gray, of the soap business; Freetrader
Wilks, of the yellow pup ; Freetrader Edwards,
Freetrader Johnson, Freetrader Pumpkin Smith,
Freetrader Conroy, Freetrader Fuller, &e.
There was not one Protectionist in the crowd.
All these Freetraders knew well that Freetrade
and Toryism go together, but a section of the
Labor party—the miserable, useless Freetrade
section which keeps the fiscal-sinking business
going—refuses to know even that obvious fact,
loudly as all the above politicians yell it in the
fiscal-sinker’s deaf ear. And because of that
Freetrade section the Labor party in Federal
politics won’t decide to leave off being the passive
instrument of its worst enemies. The gulf which
the Federal Labor men maintain between them-
selves and the democratic Protectionists is just
what keeps the Democrats out of a majority and
out of office. AnCT therefore Reid is in office —and
admitting his friend the nigger in large quan-
tities.
»
The brother of a well-known Melbourne man
writes from the Transvaal concerning what he
saw in a Chow “compound ” on a recent Sabbath
morning :
Having been told that there was trouble at one of the
Chinese compounds, two other fellows and I went up to
see for ourselves if anything serious had happened. One
of my friends knew the man at the gate, so we were
admitted without any difficulty, and lo ! the sight was
something to remember. Kneeling around a large court-
yard were 500 Chinamen, more or less, watching their
fellow countrymen being flogged with a shambock,
a weapon which, lam told, cuts, and cuts severely. I
didn’t go near enough to see for myself the full effects of
the punishment, but with my two friends I stood within
the circle of Chows where we shuddered at the flogging
from a distance. It struck me afterwards that if those
men had risen in revolt they would have made mincemeat
of the whites, who didn’t number 50 in all. Luckily there
was no rising, and we all got away safely. The row had
started with a light between a Chinaman and a Kaffir. I
believe it finished with about 50 of the “compounders”
getting 15 strokes each, a story which the newspapers
didn't publish. This experience I have related to show
you how the mine-managers take the law into their own
hands, and are able, thusfar, to shambock their yellow
slaves with impunity. Slavery is indeed the lot of the
Chow in S’Africa, and although I don’t admire him (for he
is a coward in some ways), I pity the poor beggar under
the capitalists’ rule. Most of the Chinamen in S'Africa,
mind you, are a better class than we know in Melbourne,
but the lot I am speaking of are inferior in build and
everything else. There doesn’t seem to be any more
Chow arriving, so I guess the mines have got all they
want for the present.
Every swish of the British shambock in S’Africa is
a touching reminder of the time when the jingo
press howled against the wicked Boers for their
cruel treatment of the local blacks, and all good
Sons of the Hempire were exhorted to rally round
the one Flag that waves in the best interests of
Civilisation with a big, big C. The catch-word
should have been spelt with aD. Divilisation !
♦
The following (from Sydney D.T.) is an approving
summary of the principles of Premier Carrutiiers’
Bill for supplying N.S.W. with local govern-
ment :
This Bill is designed with the object of placing in the
hands of the people in rural districts the management of
their own local works, so as to relieve them from the
necessity of applying, cap-in-hand, to the central Govern-
ment for each little road or bridge they may require. The
principle of the Bill is “self-help.” It creates local
authorities, clothes them with ample powers to help
themselves, and, by a liberal endowment and the transfer
of the land-tax, supplies, in some cases all, and in most
of the others by far the major portion, of the funds, leav-
ing a very small proportion, if any, of the finances to be
provided by additional taxation.
A striking feature of the measure is the elasticity of
the system therein outlined. Each local government
unit is invested, on its creation, with certain elementary
duties and responsibilities. If it feels that these are a 3
much as the area needs or can pay for, or as much as it
can efficiently undertake, there is no compulsion upon it
to enlarge its sphere. If, on the other hand, the district
is progressive, and desirous of taking up more extended
duties than the mere management of roads and bridges,
machinery is provided in the Bill whereby the council
may obtain the additional powers required. As a check
upon the hasty assumption of wider powers by coun-
cillors, it is provided that all propositions to extend the
sphere of work of a council (with a possibility of increased
taxation) may be either granted or refused by the Gover-
nor, or may be submitted for the approval of the electors
of the area. , ~ ; * /
In other words, there is to be as little local self-
government as possible and the State Government
is to supply practically all the money. This idea
combines the maximum of apologetic evasion on
the part of the Government with the minimum of
self-help on the part of the country population.
Yet this is the Bill which Labor member Nielsen
denounces lest it should tax the poor farmer. The
city worker, meanwhile, will go on paying his
local rates in full as heretofore.
It’s almost equivalent to a public misfortune that
the High Court should have, on a legal quibble,
released T. M. Slattery from gaol. Doubtless,
the quibble is a perfectly legal one, and to the
mind of the lawyer is good reason why Slattery
should escape punishment; but the public eye
cannot be expected to see much virtue in a point
that nullifies natural justice. The High Court
sets the Law in antagonism to Honesty. It is
reasonable to suppose that it had no other alterna-


IS YOUR FARM SECURE?
ifl? ,f y° u die ’ who wi,t have the Farm 7
' Your Family or the Mortgagee 7
An Equitable Endowment will keep the Farm in Your Family.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney
(oa Nearest Branch of the Society).
Vie,axe send me parli.-nlars of an Equitable
Endowment.
1 u'as born
Name
Address ...
?
0
0
*r.
iMst
are*
'■’'ft-
“Fl I?ST
FAVOUaiTES
»
t-lrr-r-r
B
on account of
their'purity
& flavour.
Gallaher 1$ Belfast- belong r q noTrusf or Combine
tive; nevertheless, the incident is most unfortu-
nate As to Slavery personally, no one will
grudge him his escape-lie is an old man and a
heavily-punished one as it is—but the matter has
to be looked at not in the light of personal con-
si derations, but o pu y c Jl ) ere -y-
Court split its leffal hair lengthways with amazing
precision but what, after all, is the practical use
of half a hair?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Tom Moore.”
Theatre Royal “ Mikado.”
Criterion “ Naughty Nancj\”
Queen’s Hall New Folly Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Beauty and The Barge.”
Her Majesty’s “ The School for Scandal.”
Theatre Royal “The Flood Tide.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
_ „ / Westminster Glee and Concert
Town Hall. \ Par ty.
The revival of “The Gondoliers” by the
Repertoire Co. at Sydney Royal on Saturday was,
in some respects, a welcome surprise, for the co.
far surpassed any of its previous successes, and
gave a rendering which can stand coni parison, with-
out suffering much, with that of the Royal Comic
Opera Co. in its palmy days—the days of Nellie
Stewart, Henry Bracy, Charles Ryley, Violet
Varley and Flora Graupner. “ The Gondoliers ”is
a fancy which deserves kindly treatment. It has
a romantic little story, graced with some delight-
ful lyrics and a very great deal of rich humor,
which plays round the themes of Royalty and
Republicanism. This humor is somewhat of the
Yes-No variety; one character is allowed to
admirably satirise the theory of monarchy ;
another, with just as good an appeal to fun, takes
a G. H. Reid view of Socialism, and prattles of
that time when everybody has to wear silks and
satins and “ up goes the price of shoddy.”
* * * *
Conspicuously successful in Saturday night’s
revival of “ The Gondoliers ” were Miss Aggie
Thorne, who, as Tessa, entered into the true
Gilhertian humor of the piece and sang with
dainty clearness ; and Miss Vinia de Loitte, who
made the part of Casilda stand out prominently
by her clever singing. The Repertoire Co. has quite
a well-stocked aviary, for, in addition to those,
Miss Dolly Castles, who had the chief soprano
part, acquitted herself creditably, and Miss Celia
Ghiloni was, in voice and figure, a fine Duchess of
Plaza-Toro. A fine merry pair of gondoliers
were Kenninghatn and Wilson—the former full of
the exuberant gaiety of the piece, shining as well
in acting as in singing, the latter scoring by the
admirable enunciation of his songs. When Gil-
bert has written the libretto to a Sullivan song,
you want to hear the words as well as the music,
and Wilson sees that you do. Kenningharn’s
voice failed a little first night in his chief
solo, “Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes,’' mainly
through his forcing it too much, but that was the
only chance he gave in a long innings. H. H.
Wallace, as the Duke of Plaza-Toro, shows a great
deal of improvement on his Jack Point ; he will
develop into a graceful dancer, and his light voice
is improving with practice. For a youngster he
has had golden opportunities forced upon him
rather too thickly, and he needs to keep in view
the fact that he has much hard work yet ahead.
In his old, familiar character of the Grand Inquisi-
tor, Howard Vernon again scores a great success ;
and the Luiz of J. R. Ralston is well sung and
well acted. The Gilbert and Sullivan season has
been extraordinarily successful, packed houses
being the rule. It ends with the coming week,
when “ The Mikado ” will be revived.
** * *
Mr. William Anderson announces that he
will open his Sydney dramatic season at the
Theatre Royal on Saturday, July 15, with the
great Adelphi success, “ The Midnight Mail.”
Name has a sound suggestive of mystery and
rush.
** * *
Mr. William Holman has started a series
of costume recitals of the most striking scenes
from the masterpieces of English drama. The
first recital eventuated at St. James’ Hall, Syd-
ney, last week, when, in the course of two hours,
Mr. Holman and a company of his past and
present pupils put up Broughton’s one-act pomedy,
“Ruth’s Romance,” eight items of music, song,
and story, and finished with the third
act of “ Othello.” The costumes were beauti-
ful, the staging good, and the acting up
to first-class amateur standard, the only
dull items in the show being a song about a bow
and a flute solo. Songs asking “ What of the Bow ”
are as out of date as songs interrogating about the
battle axe. And this writer has only come across
two people who could play the flute, and when
people play the flute who can’t play it, then it
sounds like a machine for taking breathing
exercises on. The representation of the third act
of Othello put the golden roof on the performance.
# sfc -fc *
Andrew Mack is still in the middle of the
stage at Her Majesty’s, Sydney ; and yet, though
he is nearly always there, he is so good an artist
that you don’t notice it till afterwards. _ What
with his ease and grace as an actor, and his singing,
and his skill as a composer, a truly versatile person
is A. Mack. “Tom Moore” has probably, how-
ever, seen its best days in Sydney. There isn’t
an unlimited audience to which it appeals; but
Mack himself has appealed to that audience with
much force.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion Mr. John Sheridan,
assisted by Miss Maud Amber and Mr. Winfield
Blake, keeps “ Naughty Nancy ” up to a meteoric
standard. Miss Heba Barlow, Miss Faning and
Miss Waldon-Taylor deserve to see their names in
print as aiders and abettors of the fun.
#* * *
Those popular amateurs, The Players, are
coruscating at Sydney Palace. To-night “Little
Lord Fauntleroy ” will sit on the apple-barrel,
change his grandfather’s political views, and cal]
his mother “Dearest.”
** * *
At her piano recital at Sydney Centenary
Hall, on Saturday evening, Miss Yvonne Leverrier
had a fashionable audience, including Federal and
State vice-regal sets. The young player is
generally conceded to have considerable musical
talent, which was best exemplified in her
dainty handling of the softer portions of the
music. Where force was required she aimed at
getting too much of it, and the bang and the
misuse of the pedal produced that Confused con-
catenation of sound which immature players are
apt to deem delightful, but which makes the
judicious hearers grieve. When Miss Leverrier
ceases from making such fierce attacks upon the
piano (which is, after all, an inoffensive animal
when treated properly), and also cures herself of a
mannerism suggestive of playing from the
shoulders, she ought to be fit for good
work. As it was, there were man ' moments
of pleasure during her programme. , By the way,
how is it that no one will ever present a
piano programme nowadays without includihg
Bach’s Toccata and Fugue in D minor ? Performed
on the organ, as written by the great John Sebas-
tian, it has nobility as well as brilliancy, but, as
improved by Tausig for the piano, it loses. all its
dignity, and becomes a mangled procession of
octave gymnastics.
** * *
Golden is interrupting himself to tell a
new batch of -stories at Sydney Tivoli, and the
last batch (he moves on at the end of this week)
doesn’t contain as many weeds as the first batch
did. As to his matter, Golden might improve;
as to his manner, he’s good enough as he is. Since
last week the most warmly welcomed new-comer
is F. Yorke, who has been out prospecting for new
jokes and has found a few ; and of the people who
aren’t new the one best worth seeing is Guerra,
the dancing lady, whose extra-long Sydney season
is probably due to the fact that, between dances,
she has been nursing her sick husband, Kara, the
star juggler, who has had a bad bout with ’citis.
He is getting better now— a man who has a wife
as beautiful as Mile. Guerra to live for would
exhibit shockingly bad taste if he did anything
else.
** * *
Jessie MadLachlan, the Scottish vocalist,
“ struck oil ”in Australia. Apart from the fact
that Scots always roll up well to hear a bard of
their own nationality, her success was due to the
intense dramatic power and magnetism that
linger about her singing. Her mezzo voice denotes
good training, but she is not at all particular as to
her method of vocalisation. When she has a
rousing song to deal with she sets resolutely to
work to shout her audience to enthusiasm with
declamatory force, and she generally succeeds.
The Town Hall was crowded for the final enter-
tainment. The singer was encored for every item,
and showered with floral tributes, and the close of
the concert was like a Salvation revival, when
General Booth’s long banner of white beard flies
out horizontally in front of a gale of applause,
like washing blowing down the street. In the
last verse of “ Auld Lang Syne” the audience
joined in and the great chorus was swelled louder
than ever it swelled in Sydney Town Hall before.
It was indeed a Night. The Scots who had their
wallets bled for reserved seats were resolved to get
their siller’s worth in enthusiasm. The audience
was full of haggis and whisky, and emotion,
and towards the end it wept and cheered
violently at the smallest prompting. One woman
in the audience found herself embraced in the
midst of a love song by a sentimental Highlander
from Jerusalem or thereabouts, who told her in a
whiskified and objectionable voice which strug-
gled through the rye that she was a bonnie lass ;
and in the midst of one of Miss Maclachlan’s
Gaelic songs another Scot surcharged with Scotch
cried out the singer’s name in the soggy voice
of sentiment, and seemed likely to propose to her
on the spot. He was run out. Yes, it was a braw
nicht.
*# * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the blue and
tiresome drama by Sudermann met with all the
neglect that its performance deserved. A revival
of “ Elizabeth, Queen of England,” rose from the
ashes of “The Fires of St. John ” last Saturday,
and the loud, angry Queen with the elevated
heels and ruddy-tinted hair is reigning for six
nights. “Elizabeth” presents Miss Nance
O’Neil in a series of commanding situations,
followed by a long death scene, in which she
is supposed to be many years older than
she looks. The death scene this time is not so
dimly lighted as of yore, when the aged Sovereign
Lady amounted to little more than a voice from
the gloom. In making herself visible as well as
audible the actress adds a touch of human
interest to her monologue without .establishing
a solid claim to shine as a “star” tragedienne.
It is by comparison with the rest of the co.
that Miss O’Neil shines. The performers who
impersonate lords and ladies at the court
of tempestuous Queen Bess are not a
very brilliant collection of artists, but they carry
their decorative clothes in a fairly satisfactory
manner, and appear to be glad when Her
Majesty is dead. If the real original daughter of
Anne Boleyn and Henry the Eighth was half as
red as the drama paints her, the stage courtiers are
Erobably true to history as regards their desire to
ear the last of the old spinster. Next Saturday
the same co. will appear in “The School for
Scandal.”
“ The Skirt Dancer,” revived last Satur-
day, is keeping Stephenson’s Musical Comedy
forces on active service at the Princess’s until
Friday. Then comes “Beauty and the Barge,”
under the Brough-Flemming management, with
Melbourne’s trusty friend Robert Brough in what
is asserted to be one of his happiest characters. A
few weeks ago that excellent comedian was a sick
man, and the great greeting in store for him will
have a note of hearty congratulation in its warm
burst of welcome.
#* * *
“ The Flood Tide,” a fine and fickle melo-
drama wherein the path of wickedness is strewn
with jokes, and the bloated capitalist carries his
boots upon his shoulders, came back to notice at
Melbourne Royal on Saturday. When Cecil
Raleigh writes a drama he turns some of the old
conventionalities inside out and mixes them
with new situations. “The Flood Tide”
makes very few appeals to the feelings of
persons who go to the theatre for cheap
and noble sentiments, but forget to take the goods
away with them. It doesn’t even punish the
guilty, save to the extent of leaving Miss Frances
Ross stranded on her luggage at a railway ter-
minus whilst the other characters—who had
mostly dropped into dishonesty and drink —are
going away to enjoy themselves at Paris. In fact,
the wages of sin are prosperity. Bland Holt, as
the fraudulent Thompson of the story, makes
half a million profit by the sale of a dia-
mond mine worth two hundred and fifty
thousand pounds, or less. Mrs. Bland Holt is the
female accomplice who intends to marry the
fraudulent Thompson after he becomes a half-
millionairer, and Miss Ireland is the other female
accomplice who expects to enter the bonds of
matrimony with the other half-millionaire. The
scenic effects in “The Flood Tide” are some of
Brunton’s best, also Walter Baker scores a spec-
tacular triumph by beginning his honeymoon in a
state of full regimentals.
The late AUGUSTUS GREGORY, Explorer.
The Westminster Glee and Concert Party
—an enlarged edition of the previous party that
Edward Branscombe conducted through Austral-
asia—will appear at Melbourne Town Hall next
Saturday and on subsequent occasions. The party
this time includes seven ooy soprano soloists plus
nine full-grown songsters, two of whom are
Madame Marie Hooton and manager Branscombe,
remembered in Melbourne as an interesting con-
tralto and a soulful tenor.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House there are
rumors of Fuller Golden and other forthcoming
strangers. Meanwhile, the statuesque Miss Milo
and Cruickshank are'preparing to shift their novel
turn to another State ; also Millis, and Dryden,
and the Figaros will change their locality next
week. Talking of last nights, it seems that
Walter Sanford s American Flayers have reached
their final fortnight at the Bijou, after doing the
most astonishing feats of melodrama for five
months.
* * *
An Adelaide correspondent :
Adelaide has had a chance of proving its claim to love
the Hig'hest when it sees it, by supporting “ The Walls of
Jericho ” through a.long season pong for Adelaide), and
has done it so enthus.astically that an advertised revival
of “The Passport” was dropped. “Jericho” even
improves on a second hearing. It lias its weak spots,
of course. Twice near the end it doesn't join its flats
neatly—so to speak ; and at the start two important
characters are given three,l,lies each, and then fade right
out of the play, though either one or the other is being
talked about all through. But these are trifles. The title
is the funniest thing about the play. Advertising
posters show An angel blowing* on a trumpet, and various
towers in the background toppling headlong ; and the
towers can’t be merely those of Jericho, because they
have illuminated clocks in them. But London doesn’t
turn* a hair when the Man from Queensland blows his
blast. His own wife, even, -flatly refuses to obey him, and
he is reduced to retiring* in a huff with the Baby to Goon-
diwindi, or thereabouts. A great play, all the same, and
the acting is excellent. Miss Major, as a duchess who
wins £4l at bridge and then retires with cold feet, is an
incidental delight; other merely occasional triflers are
played by half-a-dozen of Adelaide’s noted amateurs. The
season is drawing to a close with “Quality Street,” which
shows J. M. Barrie in a less fantastic mood than usual.
“ Melb.” : “ The Fires of St. John” baffled every prog-
nosticating Pitite (they have a Pit at that house, appro-
priate for such a devilish piece). The hypotheses were :
(1) Ricca Allen cannot be Nance’s mother; (2) Rankin
must be her father ; (3) she will shoot Robson; (4) she
will suicide. All wrong. Sudermann adopts Hamlet’s
last (stage) words: “ The rest is silence.” It is an easy-
way out.
* -il -V* ! * W
The Wild Cat Column.
Treasurer Kidston, of Queensland, has done a
notable thing. His loan expenditure has been less than
any other Treasurer has shown for close upon 30 years :
and, in spite of the enormous load of interest, he has
escaped a deficit, and produces instead a surplus of
£15,995. Assuming that both lots of published figures
will stand audit, this achievement of the Labor Treasurer
is at least as big as Bent’s, in Victoria. The latter’s public
debt was £42 19s. 4d. per head at the end of 1904 ; Queens-
land’s, £79 11s. sd. ; for that year, Victoria’s interest
and charges were £1 15s. 9d. per head, Queensland s £2
19s. 6d. But that wasn’t all ; for Queensland's
deadweight of unproductive debt is vastly larger.
In 1904 Victoria had only to provide £439,605
of Cohen’s interest out of taxation ; Queensland,
with much less than half the population, had to provide
£959,403. In this respect the position this year has not
changed much in either State. Kidston’s scope for
retrenchment has therefore been much more limited (for
even a Scotch Treasurer can’t retrench Cohen), and his
success is therefore all the greater. Three years ago then-
Treasurer Cribb showed a deficit of £528,189 ; so that
liidston and Queensland between them have made up
leeway to the extent of £542,184, besides cutting
£987,020 off the loan expenditure.
* * * #
Financially N.S. W. has done pretty well during
the year just ended, and Treasurer Carruthers’ press
barrackers tell some magnificent untruths about it.
Sydney D.T. almost beats even its own record by printing
these headings
LIVING WITHIN OUR INCOME.
OUTGOINGS EXCEEDED BY HALF A MILLION.
PUBLIC DEBT REDUCED.
The alleged revenue was £11,514,328 (“alleged,” because
it includes about a million, the proceeds of land sales)
and the expenditure was £13,385,845. The ex-
penditure included £319,412 payments by statute
towards various sinking' funds. Deducting this,
we have £13,066,433 as the year’s expenditure,
against £11,514,328 received. Instead of “ living within
our income,” N.S. Wales has therefore spent £1,552,105 in
excess of its income. Instead of “ reducing the public
debt,” N.S. W. has increased its debt from £80,033,581 to
£82,522,913. Treasurer Carruthers, of course, makes an
arbitrary distinction between expenditure on revenue
account and expenditure on loan account. By charging
£1,940,348 to the latter, he shows a surplus of £187,174 on
the year’s transactions. Obviously, so long as there is a
huge loan account into which to shoot awkward items of
expenditure, no reliance whatever can be put on alleged
surpluses. They are large or small according to the elas-
ticity of the Treasurer’s conscience. And, anyhow, this
doesn’t affect the statement that the debt has been
reduced, which is simple, unadorned prevarication which-
ever way it is looked at.
The Perpetual Trustees, Estate, and Agency
Co., of Maoriland (Dunedin)
Added to Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. Reserves serves.
1897 .. £1476 12J per cent. =£lol6 £460 £147
1898 .. 1723 12| ~ ~ 1016 707 854
1899 .. 1308 12| ~ ~ 1016 292 1146
1900 .. 1943 12J ~ „ 1016 927 2073
1901 .. 1585 12j ~ „ 1016 569 2642
1902 .. 1799 124 ~ „ 1016 783 3425
1903 . 1359 12j ~ ~ 1016 343 3768
1904 .. 2057 124 „ „ 1016 , 1041 4809
Premiums on new share issue 1332 6141
1905 .. 2302 „ „ 1093 1209 7350
During the year 3331 unallotted shares, 7s. 6d. paid, were
issued at a premium of Bs. ; the whole 25,000 shares have
now been issued, and all carry a liability of £3 17s. 6d.
The paid capital is now £9375. On the average capital,
together with reserves as at the commencement of the
year, the profits were at the rate of £l6 19s. 6d. per cent.
Last year the Perpetual of Sydney made £2O 6s. Od. per
cent/; but except that co. no trustee office in Australasia
improved, as the result of a whole year’s work, on the
Dunedin co.’s figures, though the Westralian Trustees
has done it for the past half-year. The dividend is
also the highest paid by any trustee co. in Australasia.
Its securities are represented by £1324 cash and deposits,
£5500 in debentures, and £10,234 on mortgage. It has
floating debts of £6262 owing, and floating balances
against it of £6102. The accounts show that to earn
£3860 in commissions in the past year, rents, salaries, and
office expenses amounted to £2091, whereas to earn £3540
in 1902-3 the same charges amounted to £2447. This is a
cheerful feature in a generally cheerful situation.
Bulletin has within the week received numer-
ous inquiries from angry insurers with the Mutual Lie
Association of Australasia, of which this, from Queei -
land, is a sample :—“ Will you explain the position of the
M.L.A.'? Five years ago it" reported that I was entitle,
to, say, £5O as bonuses, but now I learn that something
has gone wrong with the works, and besides giving n <•
nothing for the five years, they have reduced the £5O t< ,
say, £46. Is £4O coming next ? And after that chaos •
The M.L.A. formerly assumed that it would earn 4 per
cent. Later on it reduced this estimate to 3£ per cent,..
and iu some cases to 3 per cent. Three per cent, requires
a larg'er reserve to earn the amounts which the office
has contracted to pay on its policies than 4 per
cent, did ; therefore the reduction in assumed
rate called for larger additions to reserve than
had been made hitherto. When the notice was
issued that the bonuses amounted to, say, £5O, it
was accompanied bv the condition that it was to
be regarded as a provisional bonus, payable only in the
event of the maturing of the policy within five years ; if
policies lasted over the five years the next notice would
show the bonus calculated according to the reduced
assumed interest rate. Reduction of assumed rate (and
therefore of bonus) isn’t a sign of decay ; on the contrary ,
the sounder the office the lower, as a rule, the assumed
rate. While the reserves are being brought up to the
higher level, bonuses, of course, suffer ; but it is only a
temporary set-back, which is more than counterbalanced
by the increased security afforded. The action of the
M.L.A. doesn’t therefore" mean chaos ; it rather means
more prudent management.
* * * *
Some Australian life-assurance managers howl
regularly against the taxation of their business, and have
given the Fat party the idea that it amounts to a crushing
impos tion unknown in civilised countries civilised
countries being, of course, all countries that haven’t any
Parliamentary Labor parties. The little Temperance and
General is a particularly large howler. Yet the annual
report <>f the Scottish Widows Fund, just received, shows
that, last year, on an income of £1,768,654 it paid
£33,966 in income-tax alone, whereas on an income
of £162,520 the Australian T. and G. only paid £1175
in taxes and license fees of every kind. If the Britis.i
office only had to pay as much as the Australian office,
it would have paid £12,780 instead of the £33,966 which
it actually had to pay ; or if the T. and G. had to pay as
much as’the Scottish Widows, the bill for income-tax
alone would Wave been £3llO, instead of £1175 lor
income-tax and all other sorts of taxes. The Australian
Fatman’s habit of howling against paying- the bdi
amounts to a positive disease.


Prospectors and others are requested to forward
samples of Asbestos and full particulars to Herbert
Soanes, the only Asbestos Specialist in Australasia.
Reports made and sales negotiated. Address: Herbert
Soanes, Asbestos Specialist, Box 202, P. 0., Perth, W.A.*
* * * *
The Bankers’ Magazine (London) September,
1904: —“ The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited, was founded thirty-one years ago, with head-
quarters in the capital of Victoria, and the amount of its
business and of its accumulated funds far exceed those of
any life office established in England since the passing of
the Life Assurance Companies Act of 1870. The rapidity
in the development of this Australian society attests the
energy and organising powers of its administrators.*
» * • *
The new electric light installation of the Mel-
bourne Exhibition Cycle Track, formed a great attraction
of the recent “ Austral ” meeting. The main feature of
the system is the “ Ganz ” brilliant arc lamp, forty of
which are distributed round the track, suspended on iron
brackets. The light is absolutely steady, soft and
diffused, doing away entirely with the injurious glare
common with other lamps and overcoming the objection-
able shadows in and under the globe. Special globes are
used which, while diffusing the light, do not cut off an
undue quantity and the effect is a light known
scientifically to be the best for all illuminating purposes.
The candle power is more than four times that furnished
by other lamps at the same current consumption. Electric
lighting by the “Ganz” arc lamp is cheaper than any
other form of illuminant, both in first cost, in fixing and
in maintenance. The contractors for this installation
were the Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd., corner
Hannah and Kavanagh streets, South Melbourne, Sole
Agents for Ganz and Co., Budapest, Hungary, who will
gladly furnish estimates and expert advice upon similar
or any electrical schemes.*
* * » *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
• • » *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
* * * «
Most millmen are scared to crush through fine
screens, owing to the production of slime mineral which
cannot be caught on bumping tables. The Sperry Slimer
will soon put this fear to the right-about. It is a vanning
convex buddle with an adjustable rubber surface. Write
for particulars to N. Guthridge Ltd., Sydney and Mel-
bourne. See bottom of back cover.*
* * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange; for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * « *
The Wilfley Slime Table which has been in
operation on the Ivanhoe Gold Mines for some months
past has been giving extremely good results. Mr. H. T
Brett, Metallurgist of the Ivanhoe Gold Corporation, in an
article contributed to the March number of the Chamber
of Mines Journal, W.A., gives particulars of the savings
made, and states that the introduction of the Wilfley
Slime Table will be of great service in treating the low-
grade sulphide ores of the field. Since the future of
Kalgoorlie is so intimately bound up with the most
economical solution of this sulphide problem, this
assurance from Mr. Brett is a most important matter.
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne, are
sole manufacturers for Australasia of this table.*
* * » *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
-c •» * *
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “ Upright ” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more—alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 2500h.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
are also putting down “ Hornsby ” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
* * * »
Assay Balance, Ainsworth’s No. 1 special, 5 inch
beam, agate knife edges and bearings etc., sensibility
l/200th=0.005 milligramme=l/13000th grain. Price £5O.
Large stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. H. B. SILBERBERG and Co., 443
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
• * * *
London Co., Ravenswood (N.Q.), feels a little
better for a few minutes, and cannot make up its mind
whether (if things continue as at present) it should pay a
dividend or erect a battery. Every bean that the London
can scrape together should be put into mine-development,
account. If directors consider that the mine requires no
further capital expenditure, then the cash should go to
purchase a battery. London Co. carts its ore into Char-
ters Towers to bo crushed, an absurd undertaking. A div.
should not be thought of at present. It’s certain that
about 24 hours after div. had been paid the co. would be
considering reconstruction with a view to Obtaining
further capital.
Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop.
64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Ltd.
STOCKS [.V Sydney AND Mki. bourne:—
Steel Rails, Trucks, and all Tramway Accessories.
RObeV Portable & Fixed Steam Engines. Oil Engines, etc.
- i in EAGLE BRAND of Explosives (Gelignite, etc.).
MELBOURNE OFFICE : 504 LITTLE COLLINB-ST. A. E. Leplastrikr, Manager
Antimony Ore
Wanted for Cash.
Addrkss Offers or Particurars to
H.W., Melbourne Office of ‘The Bulletin/
369 Collins Street.
PHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor Oil,
* Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, Shellac, “Sun
Brand ” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro-
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
liW~ CORRESPONDENCE; INVITED.
HY. MARKWALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle
Auokland, Wellington, Dunedin, Christchurch.
The sober Vic. friendly societies are asking for
protection from the Cheap-Jack Royal-Festive-Dromedary
sort of society. The latter hasn’t raged in Victoria to
quite the same extent as it has in N.S.W., partly be-
cause of the greater influence of younger societies which
have had some regard for the fact that you can’t get a
quart out of a pint pot. Present Acts provide for a valua-
tion of assets and liabilities every five years ; and, though
that is a considerable check on the Cheap-Jack, it still
doesn’t stop the Cheap-Jack from going into business.
Also it doesn’t stop him from getting members, because a
considerable number of those who make use of friendly
societies wouldn’t know what a valuation report was if
they met it on a 6-inch plank. The Vic. societies
which don’t work on Cheap-Jack lines are, therefore,
asking that no society be registered in future unless its
contributions are certified to be adequate to provide the
promised benefits. But, after all, seeing that friendly
societies are not local concerns, and that membership is
transferable pretty well all over the Commonwealth, the
whole of this work of officially probing into insurance
business ought to be a Federal undertaking. And, of
course, it should not stop at the friendly society. The
insurance office calls for investigation just as loudly—
especially now that the insurance office struggles after
the fourpence-a-fortnight industrial policy. The right of
the Commonwealth to absolutely prohibit any insurance
office or friendly society trading under rates which seem
to the State insurance inspectors to mean smash and
disaster to the insurers or their dependants, will probably
take some fighting for ; but a generation which has got
quite used to the Plimsoll line on sea boats shouldn’t
have much difficulty in swallowing a Plimsoll line on the
vessels that carry the bread-and-butter of its widows and
children.
• * * *
There was talk in N.S.W. lately of some pro-
jected farmers’ mutual fire insurance associations; but
the proposal was met in the doorway with the news that
in Canada similar concerns had been a ghastly failure.
But as a matter of fact the ghastly failure stopped short
at the assessment concerns. Where the premium has
been fixed beforehand the associations have thrived;
where a levy has been made at the end of a season, the
farmer who hasn’t lost anything has grumbled
about having to part up to make good other men’s
losses. M.L. Farmers’ Union a little time ago sought
some information from Canada on the subject; and
the inspector of insurance in Ontario reported,
in reply, that there were in existence 71 mutual
co.’s, 33 of which had been going for from 20 to 30 years,
10 from 30 to 40 years, 10 from 40 to 50 years, and two
for more than 60 years—which is pretty good proof that,
as the inspector says, this style of insurance “ has long
since passed out of the experimental stage.” The foreign
fire insurance co. has a firm grip on the business in
Australia ; figures for the whole Commonwealth, or even
for a whole State, are not available, but it is reckoned
that nearly two-thirds of the whole business is done by
foreign offices. In Sydney metropolitan area £31,100,000
of the total of £73,083,000 of risks is held by the foreign
co.’s, notwithstanding that there are a couple of N.S.W.
offices which confine themselves almost exclusively to
metropolitan business. The mutual principle in life assur-
ance has secured very nearly the whole business in that
branch for Australian offices ; and it looks as though the
same principle will have to be applied to secure for
Australian offices the Australian fire insurance business.
And a State office would, of course, be merely an exten-
sion of the mutual idea.
* * * *
The row over the Equitable (which seems in a
fair way to be settled now that vice-president Hyde, the
cause of the trouble, has retired) has prompted the
Mutual Life of New York to invite the Superintendent of
the N.Y. Insurance Department to make a thorough
investigation of that office. The department, which
made a similar special investigation two years ago, in
addition to the ordinary annual examination, has accepted
the invitation. It’s a fortunate country that has a
department to protect insurers in this way. Australian
insurers have no protection beyond the mere say-so of the
offices themselves ; and the more shoddy the office, the
more worthless the say-so.
* * * *
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melbourne),
manufacturers of foodstuffs :
Added to Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1896 .. £10,200 Nil £10,200 £17,258
1897 .. 10,470 2J- p.c. = £3648 6,822 24,080
1898 .. 3,386 1J „ „ 1824 1,562 25,642
1899 .. 6,530 2£ „ „ 3648 2,882 28,524
1900 .. 6,359 2J „ „ 3648 2,711 31,235
1901 .. 7,124 2f „ „ 3648 3,476 34,711
1902 .. 15,883 3| „ „ 5473 10,410 45,121
Loss.
1903 .. 4,097 Nil 41024
1904 .. 15,420 Nil 25 604
Profit.
1905 .. 10,658 Nil 10,658 36,262
This co., which was struck first by the drought (when it
had to pay famine prices for its raw material) and then by
the glut (when it had to write off large sums from its
stocks bought at famine prices), is in a much less un-
healthy state than it was. Overdrafts, which stood at
£77,443 in 1903 and £64,952 in 1904, have been reduced to
£46,875 ; mortgages have moved from £16,850 in 1903 to
£14,050 in 1905; and other liabilities have been substan-
tially reduced, partly out of profits, partlv by reducing
stocks. Book debts (£25,469, against £24,286) are still a
heavy item. The principal asset consists of freeholds,
machinery, &c. ; the original purchase was £148,500, from
which, apparently, nothing whatever has been wr.tten off.
But, besides making additions (size undisclosed,) out of
profits, £2021 was written off the previous additions
made by the co. Why it should be necessary to
write down the value of additions, and why it isn’t
necessary to write down the value of the older original
assets of the same character, isn’t explained. The re-
serves are probably, in the circumstances, wholly or
largely nominal. In addition to the 56,000 shares issued
in part payment for the business, the co. issued 89,953
shares for which the public paid £1 each. Present value
is about 2s. This is another of those bloated manufac-
turing concerns that the Freetraders talk about.
* * * *
Bank of New Zealand shares have been quoted
lately at a price which gives only from £2 13s. 4d. to £3
per cent.—the lowest return required of any Australasian
security. Expectation of higher div. explains this. The
position is that, while the Assets Board exists, no more
than 5 per cent, can be paid. The Assets Board at March
31st had £403,000 worth (book value) of land to realise :
and it is expected this realisation will call for an aid of
£158,882 from the bank. As soon as that is paid, and the
Assets Board dissolved, divs. can be increased. Ordinary
capital is £422,674 ; pref. capital, £1,500,000. Latter must
participate in divs. over 5 per cent, to the extent of one-
half ; that is to say, if the ordinary shareholder gets 9
"per cent., prefs., held by the State, must get 7. But the
pref. shares cannot get more than 10 per cent.—which was
playing it rather low down on the State, unless the State’s
idea was that no bank ought to make more than 10 percent,
out of its customers ; and, if it has this belief, so far the
State hasn’t taken any steps to put it in force. In the
past year the profits, if distributed to the last penny,
would have paid 10 per cent, on pref. shares and 40 per
cent, on ordinary capital. But the bank has practically
no reserves ; so that a large slice of profits will no doubt
be retained to build up something substantial. And the
sliee may be larger than usual with the idea of paying off
£1,000,000 of the preference capital in nine years’ time.
• * *
Melbourne heard the last of old Jimmy Munro’s
Real Estate Bank last week, when the liquidator an-
nounced that the creditors had got 2s. 7£d. in the £, and
that there wasn’t a copper more left for them or the
shareholders. The shareholders have, in fact, paid
£140,247 in calls, and so provided about two-thirds of the
creditors’ poor little dividends. The bank reckoned its
properties worth £1,701,828 ; but after the mortgages had
been paid off (£821,685), these and the other assets panned
out for £30,999. Poor old Jimmy Munro was the great
financier who, only a few months before the smash, told
his annual meeting that the story that a call was pos-
sible was rot and humbug, that the properties were in
splendid order, and, though other mismanaged con-
cerns might get into difficulties and have to press
for calls, the Real Estate was the real Mackay
concerning which such things were unthinkable.
Another director followed that up with the assurance that
the whole £500,000 of capital was intact. Yet this awful
“ bank ” had been hopelessly rotten for two year;,.
Amongst its securities, by the way, they dug up parcels
of its own shares on which £51,000 had been lent. And
there are still some people who sigh for the good old
times before there was any Labor party, and when things
were going swimmingly—swimming down a cataract, so
to speak.
* • * *
The Perth Gas Co. (Westralia)
Dividends. Written Re-
Profits. Paid. Contrib. Off. serves
May, 1902.. £7,669||° 2 Pj°' 3 ° £1361 £11,038
Nov., 1902.. 12,0001 3°£2soo} 2109 15>929
May, 1903.. 10,111 { 6 ° £^0 } 1746 14,294
Nov., 1903.. 11,812 25 £ 25Q0 J- 1953 19,153
May, 1904.. 10,450 { 2077 17,526
Nov., 1904.. 14,1901 20 4 ° 2090 19,626
£5OOO Premiums on New Shares added to Reserves 24,626
(20 p.c. 33Jr p.c. 4
Sc on £ newh 2797 25 ’ 473
shares = £1250 J
There are now 75,000 shares paid to £l, on which 2s. div.
is paid ; 25,000 old shares paid to 125., on which the div.
is also 2s. ; another 25,000 shares, also paid to 125., on
which the div. is Is. These last-named shares were issued
at 4s. premium, and the £5OOO thus realised put to reserve.
The actual return on these shares is, therefore, 124 per
cent. But a call of 2s. is made on the whole 50,000" co-
ntributing shares, wherefore these holders handle no pro-
fits. In the past 12 months capital (including premiums)
has been increased £40,000 ; this has been applied to re-
ducing overdrafts and other loans by £23,673 (from £29,164
to £5491), and to the purchase of new plant. New electric
light appliances are now being installed, and apparently
the whole or most of the uncalled capital will be required
in connection with these extensions. Meantime the whole
of the reserve fund is in plant. After writing off 5 per
cent, per annum from plant, the gas business shows a
profit at the rate of 10J per cent., and the electric light
business of 29 per cent, on the ayerag'e amount invested
in them ; and a return of that size seems to suggest some-
thing larger in the way of allowance for depreciation than
a yearly 5 per cent., even though it should mean pulling
down the div. a trifle below 33i per cent.
* * * »
More commotion down in the perfumed wool-
store area of Circular Quay, Sydney ; the Co-operative
Wool and Produce Co. and Dalget.y’s, on behalf of the
non-co-operators, have been throwing words at one
another. Both crowds profess warm affection for “ the
great wool-growing industry ” ; but there is the difference,
to start with, that one crowd lives by wool-growing and
the other on the wool-grower. What one crowd charges,
it charges itself; what the other crowd charges, it charges
somebody else. Tfie Co-op. wool-growing crowd is in-
terested in keeping rates down ; the other crowd, which
isn’t necessarily a wool-grower at all, is interested in
keeping rates up. And that naturally makes bad feeling.
The Co-op. lately decided to give the grower a 20 p.c.
bonus on his per cent, commission ; in other words, to
practically charge 2 per cent. ; and the other co. hits
back with the remark that it has only been charging 2 per
cent, for some time past, and that the Co.-op.’s claim to
a halo i 3, therefore, bogus. But, though the grow r er cer-
tainly only pays 2 per cent, directly in each case, the
Co.-op. scores when it affirms that it charges the buyer
2s. 9d. per bale," whereas non-co-operators charge Jd. per
lb., or, -say, 4s. 3d. per bale ; and it seems to be a pretty
solid fact that the grower has to pay that odd Is. 6d. per
bale—the wool-buyer doesn’t seem to be the sort of person
who would pay it out of his own pocket. The co.-opera-
tive principle struck a hard, cold Conservative quarter
when it pushed into the wool-selling business ; but the
best proof that it is able to hold up its end of the argu-
ment even there lies in the fact that it gets so much
attention from its non-co.-operating rivals in the business.
» * * »
The Argus Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Melbourne): —
Writ- Added
ten- to Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1896 .. £175 nil £169 £6 £1,734
1897 .. 204 nil '291 1,647
1898 .. 223 nil 181 42 1,689
1899 .. 198 nil 339 1,548
1900 .. 472 nil 440 32 1,580
1901 .. 1,275 nil 1,762 1,093
1902 .. 1,494 3 p.c. =£sos 1,113 969
1903 .. 1,607 3 „ „ 505 963 139 1,108
1904 .. 1,466 3 „ „ 505 973 1,096
1905 .. 1,416 3 „ „ 505 980 1,027
For many years the society wrote off a large amount
annually from profits to cover “doubtful personal bal-
ances ”—l9Ol, £793 ; 1902, £776 ; 1903, £682 ; 1904, £541.
This item has now disappeared, and the special writing-off
this year, in addition to the usual writing-off from con-
tingent reserve, is on account of repairs and additions to
properties. If this means that no further doubtful
balances have to be provided for, it will be extra-good
news for shareholders. The contingent reserve is appar-
ently used chiefly to maintain properties, and the charge
of close upon £5OO per year on that account will probably
be permanent. In some other particulars recent progress
has been as follows :
1898. 1900. 1904. 1905.
Deposits .. .. £5,906 £10,153 £12,389 £14,455
Loan Advances .. 31,849 35,305 37,441 38,649
Overdraft .. .. 1,464 3,054
Due on Mortgage .. 7,079 4,467 8,200 8,204
Cash Balance .. 777 1,737
The society has been seeking deposits, and has been
getting them, it looks, rather faster than it has been able
to find work for them. With fines, fees, &c., the average
loan brings in a gross 8 per cent. ; and there ought to be
a wide enough margin here for expenses and a bit over.
It’s a risky business, of course, this of borrowing to lend
on the cheap cottage that nobody seems to want if
the occupier once gets out of it; but while things go all
right there’s money in it. Management expenses are
creeping up—l9o3, £507 ; 1904, £561; 1905, £671. But if
it does its work and keeps clear of rocks, the building-
society management deserves liberal pay ; and possibly
this society is getting full value for the extra money.
With the increase of deposits it is certainly taking extra
chances.
* * * *
B.H. Prop, has made a three-years contract
with the Australian (German) Metal Co. for the sale of its
zinc product. Price will of course move with the zinc
market. Thus, in the absence of Australian industries,
the co. has to hand itself over to the tender mercies of
foreign buyers who can make the market just about what
they please.
* ♦ * *
Broken Hill Junction has given all hands
notice, and will try to make a recovery with the diamond
drill. It’s a suitable mine to try the drill in ; all the
same, not much good is likely to be done till co. sinks
deeper. But for a pure gamble, the shares at eighteen-
pence or thereabouts are probably the best on the
Barrier.
* * * *
Broken Hill metal recoveries by concentration :
South, 74 p.c. of the lead and 51 p.c. of the silver ; North,
73 and 51; British, 62 and 45 ; Block 10, 64 and 35 ;
Junction (now closed), 58 and 39 ; Junction North, 57and
32. B.H. Prop, and Sulphide smelt their own concen-
trates. The figures tell pretty well the milling quality
of the ore, though the South, for instance, has more
secondary processes than some of the others, and
therefore shows up better. Still, as its costs are
the lowest of this bunch (and these figures are not much
good unless they are read in conjunction with costs), it
easily heads the list. (As before remarked, B.H. Prop,
and Sulphide Corporation are notin this list.) Practically
no better recoveries are being made now than when mill-
ing started 10 years ago. There have been many improve-
ments, but either they have been in the direction of
greater economy, or they have been counterbalanced by
changes for the worse in the character of the ore handled ;
wherefore, it still stands as a poor makeshift of an extrac-
tion process which can’t get out, at most mines, more
than half of two metals, and can’t get out any at all of the
third metal.
* » * *
As to B.H. Junction North, it seems important
for investors to remember that, the magnetic process
having practically failed, the mine is in about the same
position now as it has been any time the last 10 years.
In 1896 and 1897 it paid eight divs. of 6d. each—nothing
before or since. It has ore, as it always has had ; but it
hasn’t got a process for turning it into cash on a basis
which will show regular divs.
Though the old Wickham and Bullock Island,
Newcastle, colliery is worked out, co. isn’t to disappear.
Co.’s paid capital was £104,370; apart from the mine, it
had plant, &c., supposed to be worth £22,000. Holders of
the 20,000 pref. shares, who are entitled to £1 per share
on liquidation, preferred to have their 205., or as much of
it as liquidation would yield ; ordinaries, of course,
wanted another mine, so as to retain their interest in th,e
assets. N.S.W. Equity Court has now decided against
prefs., holding that co. has a right to buy another mine ;
so presumably co. will go ahead with the Cessnock pur-
chase, already approved by shareholders.
# ■* * if
Hillgrove Prop, shaft (N.S.W.) is now down
below 1250 feet (No. 10 level), and when the level is
opened out it will correspond with Baker’s Creek No. 14.
Developments below 14 will be closely watched by both
co.’s. Scare over the explosive ground, seems to have
subsided. List of serious accidents at Hillgrove is small
as compared with Broken Hill shows, into which the
public are fearlessly planking their cash. Gn strength of
recent good yields co. pays a div. of Is. in August, which
is ahead of time when directors led shareholders to
expect it Last crushing, 375 tons for 15390 z. ; but the
tonnage included 100 tons of screenings from the sorting
floors.
* * * *
Tumbarumba, in W. Lynes district (N.S.W.),
is having a little silver boom. The enthusiastic boomers
report that the lode has been traced five miles—about
three times as far as the main Broken Hill lode has been
proved, though when B.H. was as young as Tumbarumba,
it talked about five miles too. Picked stuff has gone from
5 to 40oz. silver and 13 to 63 per cent, lead —which is no
more than picked stuff ought to go. Assays are valueless
for practical purposes, though, and nothing in' the way of
a boom is justified until Cockle Creek ha 3 spoken. It is
28 miles from the 5-mile lode to the nearest railway sta-
tion, and a lot of gilt will wear off on a journey of that
length.
* * * *
Hunt’s Extended, Gaffney’s Greek (Vic.), after
fooling money away for years, has come to its senses, and
proposes to sink a main shaft in the basin of the dyke,
right underground that, years ago, paid several thousands
in divs. Present shaft is over 1000 ft. north of basin, and
t'ne gold dips south. Co. has a winding plant and battery
of the jam-tin sort; the only modern thing about it is the
whistle.
* * * •»
In the way of profitable low-grade mining,
Central Ellesmere, Fosterville ("Bendigo district), put up
Australia’s record last year. It crushed 11,500 tons,
which averaged ljdwt., and paid £314. The Carlisle, at
Bendigo, paid £3OOO out of 19,861 tons, which averaged
4dwt. sgr. And Bendigo doesn’t rely on either Ah Chow
or the Kanaka. When it was getting ioz. stuff, there
was a cry that the ore had become so poor that the cheap
Chinaman would have to be got in. But they got brains
in instead : and now they can pay on Hdwt. If they had
listened to the must-have-cheap-labor cry, it is pretty
certain that the improved methods wouldn’t have been
evolved, and the chances are that Joz. or so would still
have been the pay-limit.
• • • *
Victor’s quartz mine, in patchy Woods’ Point
(Vic.), has closed down. Claim has had a varied career.
A syndicate took up the ground fourteen years ago, but
had to abandon it after doing' 100 ft. or so of driving. Few
years later it was taken up by Victor Bros., who came on
payable stone after extending the drive 40ft. A battery
was erected and a couple of lower levels driven. In Nos.
1 and 2 the show paid well for some five years, but pay-
able stone was never found in No. 3 level. Crushings
went 2oz. for a start, but came down gradually to almost
as many dwt. Mine was fairly expensive to work, owing
to swelling nature of the ground and the amount of tim-
ber it required. If left shut up for long it is almost cer-
tain to close in. Co. owning parent mine, South Victor’s,
has wound up. It had one good crushing, 2670 z. from
150 tons. During last month or two it made calls,
although it had money, and only four men were employed.
Calls were probably to test the faith of shareholders. But
what is going to happen to the £6OO said to be in hand ?
* * * •
It may be cruel to ask the question, but will
someone give a reason why there should be a market for
South Star, Sebastopol Plateau (Vic.)? Co. has got £5OO
from the Government to carry down its shaft 500 ft., but
every cent of that and £2500 of calls have to go for that
work alone. Co. has a big liability to the bank apart from
this prospective debt to the Government, so there isn’t
much on which to make a market, even at ninepence. Of
course there may be flats who will relieve the people who
revived the venture of their shares. If so, they deserve
their fate. The proper course is to let the crowd hold
their scrip, and take their profits out of divs.—when th.y
come.
* f * *
Crinoline Extended is a new show up Donnelly’s
Creek way, Gippsland. Reef was cut recently, and said
to be 2ft. wide. Visitors reduced that measurement to
five inches, and there vvas a flurry on the part of one or
two to get out sharply. A little over-selling accompanied
the realising, and there was every chance of an interest-
ing share situation had not Brer Rabbit sounded the
alarm. Had the speckers been nipped, they would have
only got their deserts, so that this aspect of the situation
may be dismissed with regrets. It is quite another thing,
though, to keep visitors out of the mine. Nothing ought
to be hidden, even should the most captious critic come
along. If the show is good, it will live criticism down ; if
it is bad the sooner that is known the better.
* * * *
“Tadpoles” is the Stock Exchange name for
West Berry Consols, Ores wick (Vic.), chiefly because they
have tailed so far behind the other ventures on the Berry
lead. Now they have got into the West Loughlin pad-
dock, exchanged with the Madame Berry West, they have
got good gold and look like wiping off their overdraft once
again. This will be the third real start they have made
after divs., and as they are about to work a bend of the
lead, they may manage to accumulate a bit of cash. Their
plan should be to sink a new shaft, put on a big haulage
plant, and work the mine on a big scale.
« * » »
Bendigo shows up somewhat less favorably for
the six months. Dating from 1901 the figures run :
Gold. Calls. Divs.
Half Years. oz. £ £
June, 1902 .. 87,323 .. 67,006 .. 76,363
Dec., 1902 .. 105,499 .. 64,625 .. 131,627
June, 1903 .. 101,947 .. 64,310 .. 130,394
Dec., 1903 ..131,642 .. 78,567 .. 192,081
June, 1904 .. 120,853 .. 79,361 .. ; 186,198
Dec.., 1904 .. 127,932 .. 88,778 .. 181,698
June, 1905 .. 96,057 .. 75,862 .. 99,044
Taking the three and a-half years shown in the table
together, the record is the best since the seventies ; and,
although the past six months’ work indicates a serious
decrease of nearly £90,000 in the dividends paid, the
general outlook is still satisfactory. The Eaglehawk mines
were, a while ago, the mainstay of the field, but now other
producers are emerging. For instance, the Catherine
Reef promises well, and it looks as if some of the .mines
south, on the New Chum line, may open out profitably.
Virginia also may replace the Great Northern, and if
position counts for anything Specimen Reef stands well.
Out of the big group of properties on the field, only 12
ranked as dividend payers last half-year. South New
Moon is an easy first with £44,800, New Moon next with
£24,000, then New Argus with £12,000, and Virginia heads
the rest of the contingent with £6500. It only needs the
New Chum Railway to get on to the gold on the new
formation at 4200 ft. to galvanise another set of mines
into life, just as those at Snob’s Hill have been vitalised
by the Catherine Reef strike.
* * * #
Mount Morgan Co. (Q.) pays a div. of 3d. for
June, and proceeds with erection of furnaces to treat its
cupriferous stone. Exactly how Mt. Morgan will fare as
a copper proposition is not quite clear. Co. has not
appointed a man to run the furnaces, or, if it has, he has
not loomed up yet. Shepherd, of Chillagoe, is superin-
tending erection of furnaces ; but he is an engineer, not
a metallurgist. Looks as if co. will presently import a.
man to suit the plant. If he is procurable, well and
good ; but it would have been safer to secure a man to
design the plant to suit the stone. It’s far easier to
design the plant than the man.
(Continued on page SO).


Yotir Walk iQ Life
is made particularly easy and
pleasant just now, for it is SALE
TIME with us, and the ORIENT
BOOT (always a comfortable
Boot to walk in) is now marked
14/6, usual price 21/-.
Made in American Calf, welted,
round toes.
Sent carriage paid to any P.O,
in the Commonwealth.
IS IS
David Jones $ (Jo.
SYDNEY.
f
ifaSsm
imfcM
*
> ;
fa
V-’v
. r|.fDKAT?D
li c -
r m
SET.
Us
EXQUISITE MODELS. # PERFECT FIT,
jt J* GUARANTEED WEAR. J* J*
THE NEW
D
... CORSETS
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside,
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.
Society
CANADIAN
CLUB
WHISKY.
The moral of Slattery’s release. Put not
your trust funds in the hands of a solicitor. You
cannot even punish him if he misappropriates.
* *• * *
A lawyer writes :
The High Court quashed T. M. Slattery’s conviction for
larceny upon the ground that the circumstances in which
he received the moneys belonging to Mrs. Scanlon, which
he misappropriated, did not constitute him a bailee within
the meaning of sec. 125 of the Crimes Act, under which he
was convicted. Now sec. 177 of the Crimes Act provides
that no person accused of fraudulent misappropriation in
a fiduciary capacity can be convicted if, before being
charged, he disclosed his deficiency in any compulsory
proceedings against him. And, long before his prosecu-
tion was decided upon, Slattery consented to a decree
being made against him in the Equity Court for his
deficiency. No blame, therefore, can be attached to the
Crown Law authorities for their procedure. They had
either to charge Slattery w'ith larceny or let him alone.
The course which they adopted possessed the sanction of
previous practice, and precedents established by hitherto
unquestioned State Supreme Court decisions. It is simply
that there is a bad hole in the law, and Slattery has crept
through.
« * • *
At Hawthorn (Melb.), the other day,
while a burglar was operating on a house deserted
by its family, the milkman called, whereupon the
marauder appeared with a jug and said, “ A pint
and a half, please.” Thinking it over later
“milk-o” decided it was curious and spoke to the
Law. When the Law got there, however, the
burglar had departed with his bundle of loot, and
had drunk the milk.
If Thomas Bent carries out his stated in-
tention to buy a swift motor-car for the benefit
of the Melbourne police m chasing motorists who
break the speed regulations, there should presently
be great doings on the St. Kilda-road on Sunday
afternoons. There is some pretty sprinting done
there at present, but when the goggle-eyed youth
knows a speedy car is after him, and there is a
certainty of a fine if he be caught, and a chance of
immunity if he isn’t, the devil in him will
assuredly tempt him to give the policeman a run
for his money. And when the pair reach St.
Kilda Junction —where the road narrows and five
ways meet, and four tram lines converge—there
will some day be a notable smash, and somebody
will quit racing, there and then.
* * * »
The Englishman who knows England is
pretty often a - good deal better Australian than
the Australian is—the Australian, anyway, who
doesn’t know any other country, and has been
brought up to think of his own country as a poor,
miserable weakling which has to lean up against
some other country for just about everything.
Just when he was leaving Adelaide, Bishop
Harmer told the local parsons that before they
sent out of Australia for another bishop they ought
to quite make up their minds that there wasn’t
anybody in Australia whom they could fitly pour
into the gaiters. But the other day, when the
local parsons met to consider the question of a
boss, they jumped straight off into a motion
that the selection should be made by half-
a-dozen English bishops. Yet, when some in-
conspicuous person at the back drew their atten-
tion to Harmer’s strong advice, and suggested
that they should tell the bishops that they had
looked through Australia and could n't find the
material, they weren’t game to commit themselves
to anything of the sort. As a matter of fact, most
of them hadn’t looked, for fear they might see
some good Australian fit for the job.
A few doses of the medicine that the newly-
imported Bishop Clarke, of Melbourne, is giving
his parsons, may, however, do something in the
way of a cure. This importation who, when he
arrived, was boomed as much as if he had been
a great winter clearing-sale, and was generally
encouraged to regard the local product as poor,
slop-made goods only fit for the tuppeny counter,
lately sent to England for a man to fill the fattest
incumbency in the State. Now it turns out that
the new man is not only to have a fat incum-
bency, but is to be an archdeacon as well.
Whether the present archdeacon is to be sacked
or not isn’t clear; apparently, however, the new
billet is created just so that the imported person
may wear an extra yard of merveilleux, and
without any idea of his doing anything so common
as work in return for the glory. And when the
extra yard of merveilleux is trailed over the
humble Australian parsons, all that the real
Australian is likely to say about it is that he hopes
it will do them good.
* * * *
“ G. Elburg,” on the Norwegian vacancy :
Although the screw is good and the work very light,
the king business can hardiy be called a comfortable and
steady job. When once a king bloke loses his billet he
rarely gets another opportunity, the heads of the other
“houses” invariably having a long line of descendants
waiting for the situation as soon as it becomes vacant
through old age or dynamite. Now that Norway has
given its old man the sack, the royal unemployed will be
getting their crowns out of pawn and sending in their
references with applications for the job. But if the Ice
Country is wise it will have nothing to do with these
effete, in-bred old relics. In the beginning, the king was
elected by himself after a bit of trouble with the other
chap, and only stuck on his throne while too strong to be
pulled off. He was the physical boss of the land. The
Norwegians should invite applications from Sandow,
Hackenschmidt, and all kindred strong men, get them
into a ring, and let them argue it out, the survivor to get
the job. At even £1 per head the show would attract
immense audiences, and the proceeds would pay for the
new king’s crown and reigning apparatus, and then leave
him a trifle over for beer. Of course, as an alternative,
the billet might be raffled, but that would introduce the
gambling curse into a land which has hitherto been moral
and much addicted to a plain fish diet.
» * * *
George Reid let himself go as the whole-
souled philanthropist at a shivoo got up by Mel-
bourne Women’s National Club in Melbourne.
Fearful of having it thought that he was identi-
fying himself with the gilt-edged contingent at so
critical a moment, George launched out as the
benevolent patriarch—the father of the poor and
the lover of the lowly. He jibed at those Aus-
tralian people who prided themselves on their
aristocratic pretensions and their blue blood, till
many of the gilded dames present squirmed in
their seats. “ I value above all political creeds,
above all the Acts of Parliament in the world,
and above all other things, the personal cultiva-
tion by men and women of real love and a feeling
of sisterhood and brotherhood,” cried George,
with a little artful catch in his voice. Only to
regard the poor men and women they passed in
the streets as truly their sisters and brothers—
that, he said, was the really desirable thing, and
George carefully picked two tears off his cheek,
and put them in his pocket for future use. Now
George anxiously awaits proof that his affection
is reciprocated ; but it is probable that the people
will dissemble so badly at next election that their
conduct will almost amount to ingratitude.
* * *
A trio of sweaters at Kalgoorlie (W.A.)
have been sentenced to five years penal servitude.
They were sweaters of sovereigns—not of human
beings.
His “ right reverence ” Archbishop Carr
attended a church bazaar held in South Melbourne
Town Hall, the other day, and there was a large
assemblage of the faithful on the toepath to give
the dignitary a reception. But when the triumphal
Carr stepped down from his brougham, the public
demonstration was spoiled by a smudgy child of
the people, a little girl of seven, grimy with weep-
ing and treacle and accumulated dust, and dressed
like the street orphan in the melodrama, who took
the centre of the stage, with her knuckles in
her eyes, and howled. The dolorous youngster
was right in the track of the substantial churchman,
and he stopped to soothe her with a plump,
patriarchal hand, and a few well-chosen words.
His grace was told that the kiddie wanted a doll
she had seen in the bazaar, and wanted it badly.
“ Well,” said the Archbishop, “ she shall have it.
Come with me, little one.” He took the smudged
calamity by its wet, grimy paw, and led it into the
building, and the populace cheered wildly. With-
in Dr. Carr asked the youngster to point out the
doll, and the bedraggled infant led him straight
to a gorgeous creation inches higher than herself,
and behold the price was £5 ss. To the credit of
the church it must be recorded that the prelate
kept his promise, and the youngster tottered away
with her magnificent encumbrance.
One of Victoria’s amazing honorary magis-
trates is just now in an unaccustomed and very
unpleasant position. His business partner having,
as the result of a dispute, taken home the firm’s
books, and refused to deliver them up, this ama-
teur beak, who also happened to be a mayor, had
him arrested, in defiance of the objections of two
constables. He said he would “ take all responsi-
bility,” and that has turned out to be worth about
£250—£175 damages and costs. Besides which
Judge Eagleson handed him down some weighty
and insulting remarks to the effect that “it was
high time that men like him should be taught a
lesson in a vigorous fashion.” Yet, presumably,
this strange being will go on serving out “justice ”
to people who haven’t sufficient money to get
Judge Eagleson to make the further remarks that
the case calls for.
* * * *
A family motto must be sometimes a
ghastly sort of thing to have about a house. A
London working man, giving evidence in a domes-
tic case the other day, swore that he had “ nearly
every day ” to interfere to prevent the Hon.
C. W. J. H. Blake from battering his wife. And
the Hon. Blake is the son of a baron, and his
family motto is “ Virtue alone ennobles.”
The quaintly-
I named Henry
Lewis Pehanagay
Don Hendrick has
transpired once
again in the Mel-
bourne courts. On
a former occasion
Henry Louis was
ordered to pay his
wife £1 a week for
maintenance. This
he did for two
years, then Pehan-
agay faded away
to Maoriland.
Lately Don Hend-
rick returned to
view the scenery,
and was arrested.
There is nothing
interesting about
him—even his name
is only unusual; it
is Mrs. Pehanagay
&c. who focuses at-
tention. He is a Cin-
galese, she a British-
er. She admitted in
cross-examination
that Don Hendrick
was her fourth hus-
band, the first being
still alive for all she
knew to the contrary.
She was first mar-
ried, she said, at the
age of 15, to Saun-
ders. Then, a few
years later, Byers
captured her young-
affections, the knot
being tied in Bris-
bane, and Saunders
being still alive. By-
ers speedily got “full
up,’’ and she hap-
pened to Sydney,
where another man
(name unknown) took
her to a registry
office, and made her
his unblushing bride,
Saunders being still
in the flesh and Byers
probably in the same
substance. What
occurred to the hus-
band whose name
was forgotten she
didn’t clearly remem -
ber, but in some
fashion he evapo-
rated. The lady ad-
mitted that she had
been young and fool-
ish when she commit-
ted bigamy and trig-
amy, but she assured the Court that when she en-
tered into quadrigamy with Henry Louis Pehanagay
Don Hendrick, at Geelong, she told him all. There
was no evidence to show that any more husbands
were in existence. His Honor A’Beckett decided
that there was proof that Don Hendrick had
married her, and that there was no proof that
Saunders was alive at the time, or indeed that
there ever was any Saunders or Byers or the other
man. So the jury convicted Pehanagay of desertion,
and as he was put in gaol the much-married wife is
no better off, unless the report of the case attracts
Byers or Saunders, who may come along and sup-
port her. On the other hand, they may proceed
against her for bigamy.
* • * *
The easy and unobtrusive manner in which
some incompetent prisoners escape from custody
in M.L. puts the hardened criminal and the old
gaol-breaker to shame. At Wellington lately a
policeman looked inquiringly at a person in the
prisoners’ room at the police court, and the young
fellow apologised for his intrusion. “Get out,”
said the copper angrily. He got out, but was
re-arrested next day. Same week a would-be
suicide, confined in Dunedin goal, was missed.
How he left is a mystery, but he appears to have
just sauntered away. He was on his road to
church when he was met by a warder.
• * ■* *
The daily newspaper worship of Japanese
habits is having its effect in Australia. A white
woman at Bourke (N.S.W.) last week committed
suicide by hari-kari, using a pair of scissors to cut
herself open.
* * * *
Latest Jap idea is to hold a big naval
demonstration on the waters of the Yang-tse-
Kiang-—the giant Chinese river which can be navi-
gated for 200 miles from its mouth. This will
show the sleeping Chow what his little fighting
brother Bill is capable of, and will help the Con-
solidation of the Yellow Man against European
civilisation? Also Japan has taken in hand the
building of a new Chinese navy; and a future
English Drake may heroically insist on finishing
his whisky at the bowling club before starting out
to meet the Yellow Armada.
* • •
“ Schuur ” : In an Adelaide shop t’other
day a customer asked: “ Have you any 3£ inch
collars?” The assistant gasped? “No, sir, but
we have shirt cuffs.” The customer was lean but
influential, and the shopman’s name became Mud.
He is now seeking another billet.
A SCOTCH AGONY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ma certes 1 Maisfcer Bulletin,
It seems tae me an awfu’ sin
That savages wi’ murky skin—
(A’ kinds o’ aliens)—
Should be allowed to grow akin
Tae white Australians.
I’m no mesel’ a native chiel,
But yet I wish the country weel,
An’, mon, I canna aye but feel
There’s unco danger
In letting come by ilka keel
The dusky stranger.
E’en noo, we see the ill effect
Of oor auld Mither State’s neglect
Tae mak’ some law that wad protect
Each honest neighbor,
Whose weelfare will, I trow, be wrecked
By alien labor.
Anither ill that grows apace,
And yin wi’ which we’re face to face,
Is the admixture o’ oor race
Wi’ bluid forbidden—
The strain to-day that we can trace
It can’t be hidden.
For, gin ye will but look aroon’,
Ye’ll see, amaist in ilka toon
Whaur dwell the Children o’ the Moon—
’Mong oor pet lammies—
Wee bairns o’ color whitey-broon,
Wi’ pale-faced mammies !
Guid kens, it grieves me unco sair
Tae think a lass wi’ features fair,
Twa rosy cheeks an’ gowden hair—
Sa blithe an’ bonnie—
Should gang, her lifelong lot tae share,
Wi’ heathen Johnnie ;
Or tell her parents choice she’d made —
That wedding plans had a’ been laid,
An’ Nick himsel’ could not dissuade
Or turn her from it,
For through Life’s stream she meant to wade
Wi’ Sheik Mahomet!
There’s lots o’ reasons I could gi’e
Why fair Australia should be free
Frae Afghan, Lascar and Chinee,
An’ mony ithers,
An’, for mysel’, I’ll no agree
Tae ca’ them brithers.
It’s vera weel for men tae preach—
In . ilpits, halls and parks gie speech—
An*' this stale doctrine strive tae teach :
“ All men are equal ” ;
But' Bar some races,” I wud screech,
“Or dread the sequel! ”
An’ n ', dear sir, although I lack
The S( ttish Bard’s poetic knack,
Upon this skirl don’t turn your back,
Though ’tis a mad yin—
We don’t want White Australia Black !
N.S.W.
Yours, JOCK McFADYEN.
AT THE BLOWHOLEKIAMA
pvh 1 txlow-bole . why the clevil dont
you blow
When i am here, ts what l want to
w < Know *■>
T donl bebeve you can blow, blow
J me t\OHt,
"gjUt bfow \\ all,
yo u photo
blow s ’ all
t\gHl
• r-\PsC K. •


HORTHAND
is the Stepping-stone to the Best Positions
in Business Life. We can teach you Short-
hand at home, and save your time and
money. An easy, speedy, and practical
system. Write for a FREE LESSON and all
particulars. Send at once to
STOTT & HOARE’S Business College,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY. [2
JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
>2B-130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
STAR
STARCH
y-V/'-'t
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KING STjrIBET,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date In the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
While the Orient Co. was trying to squeeze
an extra £60,000 or so out of Australia for the
swift carriage of M‘Linen’s order for more calico,
.7 „-u i ,■ j ...
the whole importing crowd mentioned the alter-
native poundage rates as an antediluvian thing
that no self-respecting shipping co. regarded ex-
cept with loathing and contempt. But just at
that time a similar trouble cropped up in the West
Indies. The Royal Mail Steam Packet Co. had
had the European mail contract for 63 years, and
i t had grown to be such a very weary co. that the
Colonial Office proposed to give a rival line a
show. And then the R.M.S.P. Co. started bar-
racking for all it was worth that there shouldn’t
be any contract at all, but that the fair, just,
equitable, business-like, &c., poundage system,
which had been so successful elsewhere, should
be adopted. And in the end that was done,
Which shows what a hollow fraud all the agitation
in Australia against the poundage rate really was.
* • * •
Maoriland for some time past has had
n aoc™* 4-’ *4. i ij
conference nnrl rWiTWI tLat “fi, „ V ed a
rine” tn Tint Its rnl _ a • , ( , wa ’?
f ° rce ’ But n / ht at
ran ao-sUnst tLe arlvt a Pr ° ee rm? gS tb fi con^erei )° e
W , f- The gentlemen with
L d /hat there wasn’t
vpafif h sn S b o • p ™ fes s ion ’• ™
drSonW g l£ ' L PpeC^ IIStS ln , a . br T h of
Salts L Z whereas other professional spe-
TapUt p fnU .® vell * ha “ f the ordinary
frpatpd n P s ah a ’ t f t was-ah-
hint LptlTpp S ° rt ° f f tradesman—some-
S b f7 e f , a 7 T a - black -
d f 7 p V ] Vheref , ore • m tb ®
interests of dog the tradesmans sign must
go, and the doctor’s brass-plate come. When that
had been settled they reached the question of the
newspaper advt—couldn’t they put in the picture
°f the boy with the swelled face just about to ha-ve
ab his suffering relieved, and must they forsake
the other picture of the girl showing 17 new teeth
and smiling on the announcement underneath that
all that lot cost only £1 9s. lljd. ? And the asso-
eiation was still hard-hearted, and decided that all
this must go, too—even the wax lady’s head in the
show-case in the window, inviting the people to
come inside and get a set of the same sort at a
great reduction for taking a quantity.
SOME HAZY RECOLLECTIONS OF THE SYDNEY ARTISTS’ BALL.
The operation epidemic has reached such
a stage that hospital idioms are passing into
common speech. In one particular household a
roly-poly was spoilt the other day—utterly spoilt,
by escaping from its bondage, and destroying its
identity in the boiling fluid. Suzette explained,
“ Oh, dear ! I forgot to put the operating-stitches
in ! ” The covering had not been sewn round the
raw material, and the pudding had become an
open wound, in a medical way of speaking.
Senator Macfarlane, of Tasmania, has not
tbusfar offered an apology to the people who
? uffered indignities on account of his awful local
importance in February last, neither has the sec.
of the Tasmanian Tourists’Association, who stated
their grievance to the Commissioner of Police at
Hobart, received any report as to whether certain
missing articles of Macfarlane underwear have
turned up in the wash, so to speak. There are
some irate Melbourne citizens who breathe heavily
when the name of the Senator is mentioned in
their presence. It seems that the aggrieved ones
chanced to sleep a night at a Port Arthur board-
ing-house what time the Macfarlanes were lodging
under the same roof. Early next morning the
four inen of the tourist party set out for Eagle-
hawk Neck, leaving two young lady friends to
follow later in the day. Just as the girls were
about to depart a policeman burst upon the scene,
and scared them with a demand to see their
luggage. Two. articles of frilled under-
clothing had disappeared from a Macfarlane
and these lost or mislaid garments
were to be recovered. The pair of distressed
innocents having come triumphantly through
their ordeal, the police inquiry was turned towards
the four male members of the Eaglehawk expedi-
tion, who were also suspected of having packed up
the missi linen b Lcident. When the lady
friends joined them at Taranna another policeman
boarded tbe boat and took the names and addresses
of the male suspects with a view to future and,
per haps, still more desperate proceedings. As far
as the six tourists were concerned the search for
the Macfarlane family belongings went no further
than thi but if the i tems in q B uestion have since
come to light it is “up against” the Senator to
publish the glad tidings,
66
Some hundreds of copies of the “ Record ”
(otherwise the Coronation) number of the Illus-
trated London News have lately been sold in
Melbourne, and the children of that city are re-
freshing their “ loyalty ” in the delusion that King
Edward is a lovely monarch of towering stature,
blessed with an equally colossal Heir Apparent,
It looks as though the shipment of those Record
numbers must have been postponed for three
years that they might not follow too close upon the
elevated heels of the actual Heir Apparent whose
appearance gave Australia so severe a shock.
If it listened very hard, Australia might
almost hear a row that has broken out among some
of its nearest neighbors—in the Dutch island of
Celebes, which isn’t as far from the back door of
the Commonwealth as Brisbane is from Melbourne.
The Sultan of Gau has had his own ideas about
who owns t' ;e island where the spice comes from,
and the Du', h propose to settle the argument with
50,000 troops or thereabouts. As the bigger East
Indian islands go, Celebes is a place of large
empty spaces, with only 30 people to the square
mile, against Java’s 600 ; and the Dutch soldier,
who is mostly Javanese, will probably get very
tired looking for the comparatively rare enemy.
* * * *
Wolfe’s Schnapps, as good for women as
for men. Buy bottles with wrappers intact. Get
what has been known for 70 years. Don’t be
deceived. Get Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
Little “ Bert ” Langford, the most excit-
able of Melbourne mining speculators, has been
charged at Launceston (Tas.) police court with
having climbed through a railway carriage win-
dow whilst the train was in alleged motion. A
natural defence in such a case would have been
that Langford didn’t know the thjng was in motion
—that what he had always known as motion in
Victoria was so different that he mistook this for
catalepsy, and rushed at the train to give it “first
aid.” This point seems to have been missed.
* # * *
The remarkable yarn that a Broken Hill
doctor told a local policeman, to the effect that a
business man had paid him £5O in notes to give
the business man’s wife an overdose from which
she would never recover when she had a tooth
pulled, broke up badly, even before it came to the
man’s turn to give his version of things. About
the best support the yarn could have had was the
pile of notes ; but they had been blown out of the
window or otherwise mislaid anyway, they
weren’t there and the police hadn’t seen them.
Also there wasn’t any visible hole in the man’s
not too large resources which looked as though it
might have yielded £5O. The wife-murdering
proposal was also alleged to have been made at a
pub., between beers; and the wife who was to be
murdered gave evidence that she wasn’t treated a
bit like a wife who seemed to be in the road ; and
what between this, and the beer, and the £5O that
wasn’t produced as a guarantee of good faith, the
remarkable case dropped through the large cracks
that gaped all around it.
* * * *
In a medical case recently heard in Sydney
before Judge Rogers a number of experts were in
attendance. After looking thoughtfully at their
feet around the court for a couple of hours,
Dr. Jones, house surgeon at the Prmce
Alfred Hospital, wished to get away. The
Judge wanted a reason, whereupon the medico
explained that he had many patients under
his care, some of whom might die. “Yes,” re-
plied the man on the Bench, “and they might
live through your absence.” Later on the same
witness was asked if, in chloroform cases, it was
usual to pay the second doctor a fee. The Judge
beamed, and told counsel that medical men were
all there when fees were about. Dr. Jones re-
torted that in matters of cold cash the doctors only
followed in the footsteps of the legal profession.
It was a weak retort. In the matter of hunger
after fees the legal profession is so far ahead that
the medical one can’t see it with a telescope.
• * * *
“N.”: Booth’s Australian visit was all
business. His main anxiety was fixing up the
properties—he is the property-man of the skies.
An inquisitive reporter said to one of the myrmi-
dons : “ Of course English money went into the
immense Salvarmy Melbourne properties.” “Oh
dear no !” was the reply, “all collected locally.”
All made up by stalwart men and women abjectly
cadging for pennies every night. And stili they
rattle the begging box. A window at the Melb.
Salvarmy shop is now devoted to high-class and
very expensive boots and shoes, and another to
luxurious travelling portmanteaux.
• * * *
The first thing the jury in the MTntosh-
Dun case, in Sydney, did, according to the yam
of one man who ought to know, was to write
down, each man, what he thought the damages
ought to be. Then an average was struck, and it
came out at something over £4OOO. But after that
they argued for about four hours, and the final
verdict (as far as the jury was concerned) was £BOO.
Decided by the High Court last week that
in the case of a debt which involves a “ tort,” the
aggrieved party cannot endeavor to “take it out
of his hide” as well as his pocket. A governess
secured a verdict against a squatter for slander.
Now a verdict for slander or libel, or for damages
for criminal conversation, does not come under the
heading of an ordinary debt; the debtor cannot
save himself from penal consequences by bank-
ruptcy. *He must go to gaol for not paying the debt,
even if he files his schedule. The squatter didn’t
pay. The governess thereupon put his estate into
bankruptcy. Not realising the debt in that
way, she attempted to take the other step—open
to her at first—of having him arrested. High
Court declares that that is not still open to her.
She had her choice to attack his estate or his body.
She chose the former and lost the right to tlie
latter, though if the man had sequestrated his
estate on his own initiative, and it had not sufficed
to pay her claim, the woman would have still had
the right to gaol him. The decision further
limits imprisonment for debt, even when the
debt is incurred by a tort—that is to say, is in the
nature of a fine for an action, which might, under
other circumstances, be punished with gaol.
» * * *
YOU.
[For Thk Bulletin.]
Tiiere’s glory in the glint of wings
And beauty in each star ;
There’s poetry in meaner things,
Because you are.
Though fair to other eyes—to me
A lone and dreary spot
God’s glorious summer world would be,
If you were not.
m.l. W. Francis Chambers.
* w *
Evidently there isn’t much demand for
soft drinks in rural South Aus. Years ago Mrs.
Evans, a sister of millionaire John Howard Angas,
erected a temperance hotel at Keyneton, near
Angaston, with the intention of keeping sinful
sellers of beer out of the neighborhood. Of late,
things haven’t been too bright, and at time of
writing, the tenant, who has been paying 3s. per
week for the house, has stated his intention of
leaving. It is now freely stated that anyone of
good character can rent the place for the small
sum of nothing per week until someone comes
along and offers to pay 2s. 6d.
• * * *
“A.E.M.”: At an Adelaide restaurant
all the chinaware bears pictures of Baden Powell
of Mafficking. His face gazes at you from milk-
jugs, teapots, sugar-basins, cups and saucers, and
when you’re hewing your way through your
evening repast, you’re staggered to find Baden
Powell lurking in the shadow of your cold corned
bullock. That restaurant would have been rushed
in cohentingent time.
— ♦
When other lips and other hearts
With flattering vows allure,
Remember that your truest friend
Is Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
When frosty stars gleam overhead,
And earth’s in wintry moods,
And cold attacks in throat and head,
Then you’ll remember Woods.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
THE PILLORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ISTERS 1 drau
near, and see this
y woman where she
stands,
Defiant still, despite gyved
feet and fettered hands.
There's an accursed sin all
other sin above,
And she has done this
hateful thing,
For she has murdered Love.
Yet, not by spell nor craft, by
poisoned cup nor knife,
She wrought her treacher-
ous deed and took that
sacred life;
'Turns by her wanton words
Lords tender heart was
wrung,
She slew him with the
renamed sting
Of her most cruel tongue.
Women ! who place in Love
your holiest belief ;
Ye men ! who turn to us for
solace in life's grief,
Would we not count the
world well lost such
good to gain ?
To her it was a thing for
sport —
And thus young Love was
slain.
No, punish not the jade by
wound of Stick or stone ;
But let her live her life and
bear her stain alone !
And noiv you know the curse
her evil-speaking wove.
Shun like the plague such
heartlessness
As slew poor Love.
N.S.W.
ALICE J. MUSHETT.


f/ <tT 'V
❖
a
The Best
O
Peter F. Heering’s
V Purveyor to H.M. the King
Vi of England and grin-
V, cipal European A
V\ Courts. /x
FAUERES’ PHOSPHATINE
HAS PRECEDENCE OVER ALL OTHER
FOODS
FOR INFANTS A INVALIDS
ALL CHEMISTS & GROCERS.
3toc m
(Dress
Shields
THE day has long past when DRESS SHIELDS were considered a
Luxury. The higher and more refined ideals associated with Dress
demand DRESS SHIELDS as a necessity. If you want DRESS
that are a Luxury as well as a Necessity you will ask for—
ELEINEET’S.
VALAZE —A marvellous skin food ! Thousands
of ladies have testified in letters to us to the
power of Valaze as a skin beautifier—as a sure
eradicator of blackheads and blemishes and as a
remover of all facial blemishes —of the highest
degree. It’s hard to look beautiful without a
beautiful complexion—Valaze will give you
this quickly and at small cost. 3s. 6d. and 6s.
jars at all chemists, or from Mdlle. Helena
Rubinstein, 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Posted
6d. extra.*
ARNOLD’S BALSAM.— A pure vegetable
extract. The peculiar process followed in the
manufacture of this important cough mixture
ensures the extraction of all the Balsamic and
active medicinal principles of the plants, roots,
and herbs employed. Its remarkable curative
properties have induced many eminent medical
men to order it with approbation. It may be
safely taken in any stage of chest affections, and,
having a pleasant taste, is readily administered to
children. A dose at bed-time will ensure repose.
For families in the country, distant from a phy-
sician, it is invaluable, as, by its early use, many a
severe chest attack may be warded off. Children
are peculiarly susceptible to its gentle influence.
Get Arnold’s Balsam. All the best chemists and
stores throughout the States sell Arnold’s Balsam.
It has the largest sale of any cough mixture.*
THE QUEEN’S FACE FOOD.
Old ladies made young. Young ladies made
beautiful. No more wrinkles, pimples, or black-
heads, but a beautiful, clear, peachlike complexion,
for those who use the Queen’s Face Food.
Manufactured by Dr. Noel, the Queen’s, own
beautifier. Thousands have derived the greatest
benefit from it, and speak highly of it. Obtainable
at Mr. Brothwood’sand all leading chemist’s, and at
Madame Olga’s beautifying Boudoirs, Gov. Savings
Bank Chambers, Moore St., Sydney, 3s. 6d., 6s.*
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN * OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
Dress fAßßies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers. m
t* ADE markTHE varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 4, 1905.
My Dear Arini.
The Artists’ Ball was a splendid success, and
the carnival was as fast and furious as a tortoise,
or a, broody hen. The Ladies’ Auxiliary arranged
their processions and sets in a way that deserves
the best descriptive adjectives. Both artists and
Auxiliary headed the processions with a handsome
girl. And the difference in the types of beauty
of the two girls was startling. Miss Irene
Marks, in white classical swathings, and a
long blue velvet train from the shoulders, looked
exuberantly Junoesque only the Absent-yet-
Present expression of pathos in her eyes
saved her charms from being wholly material-
istic. The artist girl—Miss Mackenna—carried
in a car, and under a shade of young
gums, was of a spirituelle mould and
suggested a Dryad. One of the best designs
in the room was White China. One piece—mascu
line—was marked “Cracked,” which was very
honest. In the artists’ fancy-dress section, the
best make-up was that of Mrs. Julian Ashton, as
a baby in long clothes, and legended “ While I
Live I Grow.” She actually looked in her close-
frilled cap and “comforter,” a giant baby, a few
months old.
After having “foregoed” their tableau of the
Haunted Czar on the ground that it would be an
insult to Nicholas, and therefore offensive to
the Governor-General, the artists allowed a
half-caste Japanese gentleman, got up to
resemble Togo, to lead a large bear
around the Hall all ball-time. An insult to the
Russian monarch was not to be tolerated, but an
insult to the Russian nation was of no account.
Anyhow, the ball was an immense financial
success.
Recently be-knighted Samuel M'Caughey is a
confirmed bachelor, but, as a millionaire and a
likeable man, he might have married almost any-
one he pleased. They tell that he was once show-
ing a Very attractive widow around his domain,
and was as pleasant and gallant as any lady could
wish. “ There’s only one thing this place wants,”
he added pathetically as the last bit of the bache-
lor homestead was shown. “ And what is that ? ”
said the widow, with a little fluttering at her
heart. “More water, ma’am ; more water.”
Mr. Justice Cohen’s family connections turned
out gloriously at the Montefiore Home ball, and
Mrs. D. B. Cohen made the finest diamond show.
She had a gown of “ moth’’-colored chiffon. I
have seen tropical-latitude moths that shone like
the head-lights of an engine, but the moth from
which Mrs. Cohen copied her gown, was grey.
Perhaps it was an old moth that had suffered a
good deal of anxiety. Mrs. Michaelis was also
beautifully greyed, with the addition of grey
velvet flowers appliqued on to her raiment. The
new Rabbi, Rev. Francis Lyon Cohen, and his
wife were present —the latter scrutinising the as-
semblage through long-handled glasses. An
authority tells me that quantities of uncommonly
beautiful and valuable lace were worn —the kind
of lace that you leave in the Safe Deposit with
your other valuables when you go away to see if
London stands in the same place. Another
achievement in attire was that of Miss Essie
Davis —a gown of amber and silver brocade, with
the new chromatic bead trimming, chiffon sprays,
and a corsage buckle (at least ten inches long)
worn lengthwise.
A lady of my acquaintance, in a neighboring
State, formally adopted a young girl, and gave the
mother, a respectable married woman, a big sum
on the deal. A fortnight later she sent the
child back to its mother with a letter saying that
nothing would induce her to keep such a little
fiend. None of the-servants would stand its
temper. It scratched, and bit, and screamed, and
swore ! Later, she confided to me that it tried to
ogle its adopted father. The child's mother re-
fused to take it back, and, after prolonged nego-
tiations, the foster mother actually paid another
sum to induce the real mother to re-adopt her own
infant.
A Sydney girl, writing from London at end of
last May, actually has something, good to say of
the weather. She had been there eleven days—
all fine ones. At the Hyde Park Hotel she ran
against Divorce Justice Simpson and wife, looking
very high-class English—not plain English. As
for Acting-Agent-General Coghlan, he was so
beautifully tailored that she was constrained to
,ask, “Does the creator of such symphonies also
compose clothes for women?” It looked like, a
suit that had been cut to slow music. Mr. Justice
Matthew Henry Stephen and wife and the (Dr.)
Taylor-Youngs were at the same hotel. There
were Sunday night concerts there, at which Amy
Simpson, who is doing well, was the singer. Now,
which of Australia’s vanished song-birds is Amy
Simpson ? I cannot place her. But the persons
who are keeping up Australia’s reputation as a
beauty culture ground are the David Anderson
girls. They and their mother, Paquin-gowned,
have surpassed themselves. The girls were the
rage at Nice during the Carnival, and artists asked
to be allowed to paint them.
A down South paper announces that a fashion-
able marriage “ will take place easily in October.”
Does this mean, I wonder, that the happy man
is only a mile or two ahead now, and the lady is
sure she will have no difficulty in overtaking him
by the date mentioned, provided she doesn’t fall
over a root ?
“The squatter’ad a little ram, its fleece was
w’ite as sneow” —Hie - rest, of the parody, droned
out by a blind singer near the gates of the Show
Ground, went on to tell how the wool-man sold
that ram for a thousand guineas. Sordid financial
details like this sully the whiteness of the metre of
Mary’s Little Lamb. Lady Northcote wrapped
herself in furs, and with His Ex. and Lady le
Hunte went to the ground and was instructed in the
Vermonts, Shropshires and crossbreds by President
Francis Suttor, who knows the subject well and
could make you giddy with baa-baa statistics. Her
Ex. seemed to relish the bleatful information that
was poured on her. But everybody is like that just
now. Sheep are in the air, so to speak, and you
inhale lamb when you breathe, and if you hear a
large, prosperous-looking man saying that Some-
thing is “ of a beautiful bright quality ’’ you know
it is sheep’s fleece, not woman’s hair.
A fortunate circumstance for Miss Leverrier
that her lines have fallen across those of a
musicianly Excellency General. Much Society
would care about the pianiste’s brilliancy and
finish if Lady Northcote didn’t tell it of these
qualifications in very determined tones —-and semi-
tones and over-tones. All the Sydney ladies
whose absence would make a blank in society
turned out to the Leverrier concert and took
parties with them. Mesdames Barton, Salomons,
Fairfax and M‘Millan were there, and the Federal
Government House persons sat on the right side
of the clock, and the Acting-State, party on the
left. Miss Leverrier, in sea-foam crepe de chine,
was handed on and off the stage by Mr. South-
well. Not to know Mr. Southwell is to argue
yourself outside the musical pale, and then you
might as well be dead, and if you are dead you
might as well be buried.
Mr. Lucius O’Brien, barrister-at-law, who died
recently of heart disease, was called in 18G7,
and practised for a short time, but gave up
law for science. He belonged to an old Sydney
family, which, after a career of trade in Lower
George-street, settled at Bondi Beach on a pro-
perty known as “The Homestead.” It has
attached to it a private mausoleum, in which Mr.
O’Brien’s remains are laid to rest.
A couple of N.S. Wales historic families joined
forces last week at West Maitland when Mr. E.
H. Robertson, son of the late J. B. R. Robertson,
of Oakhampton Park, and nephew of one-time
Premier John Robertson, was united to Miss
Jessica Agnes Jones, of Walla Walla. The bride
is grand-daughter of the late George Chisholm, of
Sydney. The Chisholms date from the earliest
days of N.S. Wales, and the pioneer Robertson
arrived in 1820.
Mr. Charles Norman, for some years sub-editor
of Sydney Daily Telegraph, has now returned
to his old profession of music, and takes
pupils for the piano and singing. Before taking
to journalism, Mr. Norman was organist and
choirmaster at St. Paul’s pro-Cathedral, Dunedin,
and was conspicuously successful there. Added
to his high musical qualifications, Mr. Norman
has a Paderewski crop of golden hair.
“Brescians” troupe of actors and singers, who
are coming here under Edwin Geach’s manage-
ment, by-and-bye, consist of four brothers mar-
ried to four sisters. I think this makes each man
a sort of brother-in-law to his own wife, but my
head began to ache before I had sorted it out.
The Redemptorines—an “enclosed order” of
nuns that Miss Madeline Toohey will join—do
not teach or go a-visiting the sick. They make
vestments and altar appointments for poor clergy
and chapels, and spend the rest of their waking
hours in prayers and meditation.
The Prestons, of Nestle’s Swiss milk agency,
who bought Mr. Justice Barton’s house, go to
England, probably by the Orontes. New arrivals,
the Piers-Hattons, are said to be the buyers of
that isolated, romantic place known as tbe “ Her-
mitage’ at Rose Bay. Another large-gardened
|and many-shrfibbed property, that of the late Dr.
Bowker, at Darling Point, has been leased by Mr.
Owen Cox. (If I fail at the ostrich industry I
ought to be able to turn a dishonest penny in a
house and land agency.)
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“They say a great deal in satire about the
widow, her brief season of weeds, and then her
sudden notice of life and man again; but a
widower of this city, high up in his profession
is one of the strong instances of the brisk widower.
Two days of funeral worries were quite' enough
mourning for him. Then friends switched off
their sympathetic sighs and slapped him on the
mourning clothes as a sign of good cheer.
“ A month or two ago Miss Florence Young
was expressing new sentiments re Australia—the
land she was so jubilant at leaving—and casting
affectionate glances this way. I took that as a
sign of disappointment in Uncle Sam’s Land and
its theatrical managers. That was right. Miss
Young has now definitely expressed a horror of
the low salaries and continuous bustle of stage-work
in the land of the sky-scraper, and has made a step
towards taking on starship again in the good old
country of the ’roo. They all say it in time, but
this comic opera warbler has said it sooner than
most.
“ The two Yank starlets revolving under the
Southern Cross at the present hour did not fall
into each other’s arms on meeting for the first
time. They simply bowed sweetly like two
Society rivals, and said sugared things in the dead
calm of the unexpected meeting.
“ One of the Fitzgerald clan—Richard of the
Caetlemaine stock—was married last month, to
Miss Florence Templar Hine. Ah interesting
romance in connection with the event was the
long term of the probation, during which time the
groom persuaded the fair one to follow the faith
of his fathers. Mr. Dick Fitzgerald is a plump
and prosperous member of the Stock Exchange.
“Society, mostly in a pill-box hat pendant over
the left eye, turned out strong to the opening of
the Mid-Winter racing carnival. Flemington
had rare weather for this event —blue and gold
without a break. The State Ex.’s clitnbed to
their pen and kept in the shade of the palms most
of the time. Some indigo-bluemountings relieved
the Grey Dame’s dressing of gloom. Two roly-
poly figures held rival kow-tows on the riles. John
Forrest was in fine fettle, but Georgie Porgie,
close by, clowned it bravely, and performed to the
Tfiorak flock as a Yorick of infinite jest. Dame
Forrest was dressed up to a thermometer of a cen-
tury in the shade, and not once did she add a wrap
to her frail muslins. Two jaunty widows—the
inevitable Dame Janet and Mrs. Wesley-Hall—
were foremost with velvets, the dowager wearing
eminence purple, and the younger Mrs., mole cor-
duroy. Miss Muriel Cumming, Mrs. Ernest
Raleigh and Mrs. Seton Williams were a trio in
the pill-box flight. The chubby girleen made a
mistake —the other two were safe. One should not
hang a toque of this order above a button nose.|
“ Girls have a horrid habit of growing up while
at boardinsr-schools. The other day, a skittish
mamma, who had not seen her eldest daughter for
over a year, was confronted by a massive young
woman—fat, sleek, fresh, and knowing. She wore
a dress to her ankles, and in school uniform dis-
played to the full her ample curves. The gay
young parent nearly fainted. Tears splashed
through her series of interrogations. ‘ What have
you done ? How old are you ? Fifteen ! Oh,
why did you grow like this ? And fat ! I was
never fat —never for an instant. I can’t trot you
out. Oh, Tripper, darling, what made you spring
up and burst out like this? Now, if I’d been
home, instead of gadding about with your father,
this wouldn’t have happened. Don't laugh, you
silly girl. I’d have boiled you down or had you
starved. Fancy one’s own daughter turning
round to make her mother old ! Tripper, you
have broken my heart.’ But Tripper laid her
Jonathan-apple cheek on the moist, pearl-pow-
dered face of her plaintive mamma, and probably
promised to iron herself out. Many mammas
suffer in the same way. The tragedy is a common
one.
“Serious motor tragedies in this part of the
globe are, so far, unknown. So the vagrant cur
which gives up its last bark to the toot-toot of the
motor is a matter of paper report, and a rooster
flattened out for spatchcock by its rubber tyres,
causes a sensation. Reason of this immunity, I
believe, is partly that the general run of motor
cars in Australia, so far, couldn’t get into trouble
except on a charge of ‘loitering in a public
thoroughfare.’ When real fliers come out there
will be some mortality, and an occasional news-
paper magnate will run over somebody of no im-
portance, as in England. But even with scorch-
ing motor cars, I can’t reckon that the Australian
will fall a victim to anything like the same ex-
tent as the folk of older lands. We have been
broken in by the trams, and the Flying Angels
Push, and other circumstances, to looking round
us when walking.
“The humors of the London mote-casualties
have really no end. A cyclist riding peacefully
along a wide thoroughfare, known as Bath-road,
was suddenly dismissed into space. When he
came to, the machine was lying with several ribs
broken, and a petrol chariot was raising a whirlwind
close to the horizon. As the victim was counting
out his injuries the charioteer whirred back to
offer him a shilling !
“ The variety of male millinery at the State
Parliament opening tickled the female observers,
whose toques, cart wheel hats, and ‘early Vic-
torians’ ’ were all eclipsed by this display of mascu-
line vanity. Gov. Talbot sported a full Spanish
rooster tail in his head-gear. The infant Aide
flaunted the tartans of the Buchanans (nothing to
do with the spirit firm), and his hat flew a mar-
vellous set of ostrich boa-ends. Private Sec.
Buxton wore a chimney-brush that pointed up-
wards. It looked half like a fashionable toque,
half like an annoyed cat. Bishop Clarke was
also there, decked in scarlet, purple and black,
but he wore nothing remarkable in the way of
bonnets. Premier Bent’s classic brow was, as
usual, robed in perspiration.
“Gov. Taibottle didn’t make a success of his
recital of the Parliamentary bill-of-fare for the
session. He*made several mistakes, touched his
helmet’s rim at the wrong places, corrected him-
self with aristocratic unconcern, touched his lid
anew, and sped on inarticulately.
“ For President Wrixon’s opening show society
folk gathered in strength. The hostess, who has to
perform double smiling duty at these rallies because
of ashy, absent-minded spouse (he hides behind
the tea-urn), welcomed her Toorak chums along
with the musty political clan. Lady Talbot was
present, dressed in stone-grey, with electric-blue
flushes, and she showed her condescension by
dropping her loi\-nette when she sugared her tea,
and conferred so\ne really attractive smiles on
Premier Bent. Mrs. Harry Payne was the
smartest dresser this day. . She was in the blues,
her severe deportment heavily whale-boned.
“At one point of that function, Mr. Tommy
Bent was asking the Bishop of Melbourne in a
loud voice what he meant by a certain letter
received a day or two previously. ‘ I’ve read it
again. What are you after?’ The Bishop threw
back his scarlet drape testily, and murmured
something. Tommy didn’t hear, and the Bishop
gave the matter up. It’s a difficult thing to
murmur effectually to a man built on the Bent
plan. How can a bishop get close to the ear of a
rounded Thomas without leaning over ? And a
bishop never leans over.
“The Federal Parliament opening clashed on
Wednesday with the Box-Mitchell marriage. The
few invited to both shared the shock of the brief
opening, grappled with its abruptness, worried
past the alleged joke of the thing to its smileless
sequel, and scuttled over to the wedding feast at
the Grand. As regards the Parliament show, the
three young hopes of the half-Premier came along
with Mrs. Reid. The two Reid laddies were in
kilts. The lady herself wore brown and white,
with plots of violets about the quarter-deck and
the look-out. Mrs. 'F. Clarke, under the wing of
her ma-in-matrimony, wore snowy-white with sky-
blue gleams here and there—more here than there.
These demure daughters-in-law are a droll study.
Several of the sort keep Toorak tickled.
“ The three dames to seize the purport of that
Commonwealth opening bon-bon were Mrs. Dun-
bar-Hooper, Mrs. C. Gavan Duffy, and Miss Tur-
ner (the Treasurer’s well-informed chick). These
had much ado explaining the light and airy jest
to those light-minded feminines who never listen,
but only look at chiffons. Other women supposed
to be ‘ up ’ in all the political games were not as
wise as usual this time, but they swam along the
tide of ejaculation with an enigmatical smile.
When in doubt or ignorance, a mysterious smile
is, like honesty, the best policy.
“The relatives and friends of Melba’s dad in-
vited to the Box-Mitchell wedding gathered first
at Scots Church, and afterwards at the Grand,
which was gay with a riot of greenery and flags.
The scenery was many times repeated by giant
mirrors, and was softly illuminated by artful pink
lamps of Magog height. The bridal attire was
usual but for the wonderful lace over-dress. Miss
Annie Mitchell has the Melba figure, her dominant
head-poise and iron reserve of feature. But in-
stead of Melba’s dark thatch, this sister has a
finer one of pale gold. A sister —Miss Dora
Mitchell—was one follower, and Miss Box,
sister of bridegroom Harry Box, another.
‘ The Cream Wedding ’ the Mitchell affair has
been dubbed. It might, with as much appropriate-
ness, be called ‘the Cheque Wedding.’ The
cheques lay—dozens of them —in sealed envelopes.
Melba’s, they say, will pay the dress bills for
quite a time. The new couple are going to reside
at ‘ Doonside ’ with dad.
“The one sad feature of the Federal opening
was the appearance of C. C. Kingston with the
Reps. The Tariff-framer was immaculately
dressed. A. bright buttonhole adorned his coat.
And he looked to strange eyes still a big force in a
meditative frame of mind. But to old, admiring
friends the long illness had affected the political
toiler sadly. It has taken the gruff heartiness
away and left that pale, solemn air that acute or
long suffering brings to sick Samsons.
“At present, the Bigjohn Forrests are located
in a green Garden-of-Eden suite of rooms at the
Grand. Visitors think that Roly Poly John sug-
gests a great over-grown Jonathan apple in his
gardenesque sitting-room.
“ A novel notion at a May marriage feast was
that the wedding bell, at a certain auspicious
moment, opened its floral mouth and the tongue
shed on the bride a shower of rose-petals. None
of the guests saw the mechanism working, and
were in bewilderment about the odd happening.
The old ladies translated it as meaning Heaven’s
blessing on the bridal head. But it wasn’t
Heaven—only stage-management, like the white
dove which fluttered over Westminster Abbey at
King Ned’s coronation, and supplied an auspicious
omen. (It also supplied pigeon pie to the second
gentleman’s gentleman of the Lord High Stick-
in-Waiting the next day, having played its little
part in the royal mummery.)
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
“ The Jew was really invented by a kind
Providence to account for every internal evil in
every nation.” —Israel Zangwill.
David Storey, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), has let
the cat out of the bag—his strong objections to
Socialism are founded on an erroneous belief that
the theory limits its disciples to one suit of clothes
and one hat in the year. Storey, who, as Barton
once said, owns ten thousand hats and not enough
brains to fill any of them, could never consent to
anything which limited the demand for hats.
The Wesfcralian Labor party was invited
the other day to curse Daglish’s syndicate railway
proposals, and wouldn't. Daglish’s plea is that
the wealth of Pilbarra district justifies a railway,
but that the State can’t afford to borrow the
money. All the same, he is willing to guarantee
the syndicate 3 per cent. ; so, if the railway pays,
the syndicate collars the profit, and if it doesn’t pay
the State humps the loss. The State, in short,
can’t afford to play two-up in the ordinary way ;
therefore Daglish decides that it should play two-
up with a man who uses a two-headed penny.
As for the idea that a State with, in proportion
to population, the largest revenue on earth, might
save up a little money and pay for its railway—
the politicians present would have died on the
spot if it had been suggested.


DEATH IN THE LUNGS.
Weak Lungs IVlacie Strong by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pilis.
BUT for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills I should
be dead,” said Mrs. Margaret L.
Symons, Broken Hill. “My lungs
were in such a state that the doctors
were afraid of Consumption. They did their best
for me, but I grew thinner and weaker. When I
started Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills I was a regular
skeleton. I took seven boxes of them, and now I
am the picture of health.
“ The hot weather in Adelaide, Broken Hill,
and Hergott Springs, where I used to live, under-
mined my health for years,” Mrs. Symons went
on. “ After nursing my brother-in-law through
Pneumonia I broke right down. My own lungs
took the inflammation. I was a complete wreck.
There was hardly a drop of healthy, red blood in
my veins. And when the pneumonia was cured, I
found that I had some terrible internal disorder.
“Sharp, shooting pains ran through my back,
shoulders, side and stomach. Steaming hot
flannels gave me only a little relief. Then my
nerves broke down, and fits of hysteria made me
scream like mad. The ticking of the clock
sounded like the noise of the machinery at the
Proprietary mine. Even a footstep set me trem-
bling all over. My heart used to jump and
thump for no reason at all. The cuttir.-g pains
that darted through it made me think I would die
of Heart Disease. Even when sitting quietly I
have collapsed from sheer weakness.
“ Often, when trying to do a little housework,
my head suddenly started to swim, and I fell into
a dead faint,” Mrs. Symons added. “If I went
outside to sit in the sun, I would be so weak in a
few minutes that my husband would carry me in-
side like one dead. I was deadly pale, and as thin
as a skeleton. I could neither sleep nor eat. Life
was such a misery that I don’t know why I wanted
to live—yet when I heard how Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills had cured other cases like mine, I made up
my mind to try them.
“ I got a supply from Locke’s Store in Argent-
street N., and the first box gave me a better appe-
tite than I had had for years. I kept getting fresh
strength and energy with every dose. Gradually
the color crept back to my cheeks, and my cough
eased up. I could feel the blood racing through
my veins, right to the ends of my fingers and toes.
Every day I gained in weight and strength. To-
day T have more strength for my housework than
most women in Broken Hill. Mrs. Norris, of
Argent-street North, who used to help me in
housework, can toll you how completely Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills cured me. And, best of all, they
also cured my husband, when a heavy cold settled
on his lungs, and he, too, started to slip into Con-
sumption and Decline.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People cure
anaemia and the lirst signs of Consumption,
because they actually make new blood. In the
same way, they strike straight at the cause of all
other blood diseases, like rheumatism, neuralgia,
sciatica, backache, kidney and liver troubles,
biliousness, indigestion, debility, spinal weakness,
and the secret sufferings that only a woman
knows. But, of course, imitations or substitutes
-can’t cure you. You must get the genuine Dr.
Williams Pink Pills for Pale People—always in-
boxes, never in bottles. At all chemists and store-
keepers, or sent, post free, by Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Sydney, on receipt of price, 2s. 9d_
a box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
YD? WILLI A MS'
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE
EOPLE
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. W. H. Wood, the new Chairman of
Committees in N.S.W. Assembly, kept a store at
Delegate (N.S.W.) before taking up politics.
Dead at Melbourne, Thomas Radclilfe,
Eight-Hour pioneer. In the early days he did a
lot of Government contracting, and he bore the
banner of the Plasterers’ Union in the first eight-
hour procession.
Sad news comes from Italy of the clever
painter Nerli, well known in Australasia. Soon
after succeeding to his father’s title (a marquisate)
and a substantial fortune, he died in an asylum
for the insane.
Grattan Grey, whom Maoriland, in its
blood-drunkenness, fired out of its Hansard staff
for expressing sane opinions about the S’African
unpleasantness, has been appointed editor of
Perth Morning Herald.
Sydney is beginning to grow a trifle tired
of the frequent information that J. B. Mimna,
solicitor, has applied to be released from Darling-
hurst. No man has a right to be quite so numerous
in the papers as J. B. Mimna.
T. M. Slattery is said to contemplate
applying to be restored to the rolls of the
Legislative Council and of the solicitors. After a
cursory glance at the rolls in question one is
inclined to ask “ Why not ?”
Pursey Chirnside, who has never done
anything but inherit and put to poor use 36,396
acres of the finest Victorian soil, has been made a
C.M.G. In his case C.M.G. evidently means
Champion Monopolist Grazier.
Tom Mann, the loose-jointed misfortune
of the Australian Labor movement, no longer
blathers Freetrade and such-like on behalf of the
Vic. Political Labor Council. He discourses on
his own irresponsibility, and takes up a collection.
Some time ago a rumor stated that the'
Vic. Government contemplated the appointment
of an expert mining representative in the Big
Smoke. Now, Peacock, of the Shriek, is reported
to be seriously considering a trip to the Cold
Country. H’m.
In 1883 Dan Cooper got a baronetcy for
his contribution to the Indian Relief Fund.
“Salmon” Wilson got a knighthood for giving a
big hall to the Melbourne University. Now Sam
M‘Caughey(pronouncedM‘Kaeky), the greatsheep
king, gets knighted for his £5OOO contribution
to the Bushman’s Contingent Fund. The price is
going down, but even now the title seems hardly
worth the money.
Said that W. N. Willis once trod the
boards as an actor, and his old rnanagerhrt the
dead-and-gone Victoria Theatre, Sydney, reckons
that he would have made a success had he con-
tinued in the profession. But at the best it is an
ill-paid business, and probably the successful
aotor W. N. Willis would have been leading a
barn-storming company over the leagues of land
which are now owned by W. N. Willis, the success-
ful land-agent.
GENERAL BOOTH.
An Australian subscriber to one of the
Harmsworth prints writes with swelling heart to
thank the editor for sending him punctually the
Saper he has presumably paid for. “And what a
odsend it is out here ! lam so far away from
dear old England, God bless it!—Yours faith-
fully,” what? “Auguste Van Biene, Lyceum
Theatre, Sydney.” Auguste! Van!! Biene !.! !
If this is a dear old English name The Bulletin’s
a Dutchman.
The iron merchant, John Keep, who died
at Broughton Hall, Leichhardt, Sydney, on Sunday,
aged 81 years, was one of a large number of success-
ful merchants attracted to New South Wales in the
gold-fever days, about 1853. He commenced busi-
ness in George-street, next moved into Barrack-
street, and finally to the corner of King-street and
Clarence-street. Mr. Keep took no part in
politics, and, though he was a liberal man, he
never bought a title.
George Reid to the Aus. Gnat. Women’s
Club (which calls itself “National” because the
members gnash all their shop teeth when they
think of the Labor party)
Although the fortune of politics has thrown upon my
side for the time the support of the wealthier members of
the community, their support— whilst I respect all sup-
port— is as nothing in my mind with the confidence and
support of the people generally.
The whole career of GReid may be summed up in
that parenthesis : “ Whilst I respect all support.”
Australia is always entertaining angels
unawares. A recent Age advt. mentioned that
the deceased lady was “ grand-daughter of the
eminent Dr. William Wootton, Knight, of Gros-
venor Square, London, and grand-niece of the
Rt. Hon. Margaret Georgina Countess Spencer,
second cousin of the beautiful Duchess of Devon-
shire.” But, it seems along thin string by which to
hang on to beauty and the peerage.
KEEPING ORDER.
Premier Bent has decided to supply the Melbourne police with a motor car, so that when
they see a motorist going too fast and endangering the public safety they can overtake him by
going faster still. And when the offender puts on an extra spurt, and the police put on another
extra spurt, and they both spurt some more, things will happen.
They have found in England a new use for
the King. It is remarked admiringly, by several
of the British papers, that, motoring from Reigate
to London (20 miles), King Ned took I j hours,
thus showing an example to his people not to
exceed the legal speed limit. Thus the motoring
habit provides another excuse for the continuance
of monarchy.
Paris Nesbit, K.C., has come to the con
elusion that sentiment is out of place in politics.
Had he stood for Adelaide or Torrens at the last
elections, as the Labor party was anxious for him
to do, he could have made a certainty of a seat ;
but he preferred to stand for Barossa—one of the
most Conservative districts in the State —because
he was born there. At next election Nesbit
intends to be a candidate for the Federal Parlia-
ment in the Labor interest.
A suitor for divorce in Melbourne is
Dr. Paul Wilkes Fraser, whom his wife shot
in the head at St. Kilda some six years ago.
Since a sympathetic jury accepted the lady’s tale
that the occurrence was a most unusual accident,
Kathleen Fraser has travelled a bit. In 1900 she
quitted Victoria for America, and on April 7th,
’O3, she wrote to the doctor informing him that
she had got a divorce from him in Mitchell,
U.S.A., on March 18th, and had made haste to
marry one Theodore de Budden on April Ist.
The lady next wrote to mention that Mr.
de Budden had been killed in a railway acci-
dent in the following July, and that she proposed
travelling America as a musician. Since then she
had penned brief epistles from Seattle, in the
North-West, and from a mining camp in Alaska,
where she was earning tea and toast by music and
by mining investments. Kathleen Fraser is evi-
dently a woman of parts—many parts—and there
is no saying when she may take it into her erratic
head to return to her loving ex-husband and claim
his affection once more; so perhaps it will be as
well for the ex-husband to have his divorce notice
gummed on the door for her to read before she
rings the bell.
Adelaide student Kleeman, who has been
the coadjutor of Prof. Bragg in the recent impor-
tant radium researches at Adelaide University,
was once a cooper, and did not take up
scientific work till he was over 20. He has won a
very high degree in the science oursa. and has
been recommended for tie
Scientific Research Scholarship
of £l5O annually, given by t e
Commissioners of the London
Exhibition of 1851. He intends
to study under Prof. J. J.
Thomson, of Cambridge.
When W. Morris Hughes
was Minister for External
Affairs he had considerable fun
at the expense of the ha ,! ghtv
johnnies who ink their finsur;
in Australia’s Foreign Office.
The first week he was in pov er
a very superiah officer brought
in . a large, ferocious-looking
document. “This is a despatch
from the French Consul, Mr.
Hughes.” “ Very well,” said
Billy. The johnnie put it
down, but lingered. “ Er, it’s
in French. Shall I read it to
you, Mr. Hughes?” “No,
thanks, 111 read it myself.”
The johnnie gaped—he felt that
there was something out of uni-
versal gear when a berstlv
Labor member could re-d
French. Next day he brought
in another long, official-looking
piece of stationery. “ A des-
patch from the Italian Consul,
Mr. Hughes.” “Thank you, is
it in Italian?” “No, Mr.
Hughes, it’s in English.” “Oh
well,” said Billy in a sudden
burst of generosity, “ you can
read that one.”
Some S.A. birthdays in July ; John
Downer, 62 on 6th ; ex-'P.M.-General Chas. Todd,
79 on 7th ; J. T. Scherk, who lost his seat at the
last elections after many years’ service, 69 on Bth;
Dr. Cleland, lunatic asylum medical officer, 58 on
18th ; Judge Gordon, 55 on 26th ; Chief Secretary
Jos. Vardon, 62 on 27th.
A belated report of the wild Bendigo
function at which Premier Bent sang a comic song
reveals the fact that that remarkable statesman
also said “ Blow Captain Cook ! ” This is prob-
ably the first time Captain Cook has been publicly
“ bio wed,” and there is no knowing what depre-
ciation of Australian securities may follow.
“K.” : S.M. Herald of Saturday, in not-
ing some relics of old Sydney, dug up in Pitt-
street, at the corner of Underwood-street,
mentions the find as being in the neighborhood of
Reibey House, the “residence of Margaret
Catchpole.” Old Thomas Reibey, ex-Arch deacon
of Launceston, and once Premier of Tasmania,
will probably tear his old sermons in disgust at
this re-awakening of the silly old legend. Also
the Innes family in Sydney will not call round to
thank the Herald for the statement that their
great-grandmother was identical with the Suffolk
girl who illegally used a horse. As a matter of fact
it is very doubtful if Margaret Catchpole ever
lived outside Cobbold’s novel.
By a man who knew him :
The late explorer Augustus Ohas. Gregory was
connected with Australian interests as far back as 1837.
In his latter days he battled against tlie infirmity of old
age by pretty regular attendance at Queensland Upper
House, but his voice was so feeble that when he spoke
Hansard reporters got a speli. In politics Gregory was
nearly always opposed to the Government of the day
and regarded it as dangerously revolutionary. When
payment of members menaced the Tory opposition of
Bananaland and shocked its soul, Gregory constituted
himself a stumbling block by declaring that the
Appropriation Bill making provision for the charge could
not lawfully be passed, but his technical point fell through.
He was a bitter foe to Federation, and complained that
union would lower the credit of Australia and block
the Commonwealth from obtaining loan money. He
always had an eye to loan money. Always he put the
interests of the squattocracy first, and old Bananaland
politicans recollect the great fight, with Augustus and
his brother on one hand and the farmers on the other,
re the opening up of the rich Darling Downs. Even
though the settle! s succeeded they found to their
mortification that they were obliged to camp on the hills,
whence they looked down and saw the squatters gathering
huge estates on the rich black soil fiats —some of which
the Morgan Government has resumed to facilitate
closer settlement,. When Gregory was Surveyor-General
he told the Premier of the (lay that he could not find any
more land for settlement, and the Premier replied that
unless he found it Queensland would find a new Surveyor-
General. And it was while Gregory to a great extent
swayed the destinies of the settlers that one of his friends-
in the Q. Upper House declared that there was no land on
the Darling Downs fit to raise as much as a cabbage.
Australia has something to thank Gregory for as an
explorer ofvote, but Queensland has a big debit against
him becaCiseyj|'liis continued battle against progress and
reform, -jjeg&fm-y was a bachelor, and had been known,
to gsggjSSwerely about the declining birth-rate.
♦
The virtuous determination of N.S.W-
police authorities to suppress betting shops by
holding the owner and not the tenant liable
barked its shins over a sharp snag when it found
the owners, in several flagrant Sydney cases, were
wealthy absentees. New legislation will be
awaited, and in the meantime virtuous determina-
tion will lie up for repairs. The simple process is
to fine the absentee £lOOO, and make his agent pay
it out of the rents.
THE ARTIFICIAL INFANT.
Mr. J. B. Burke, of the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge, while-
experimenting with radium and sterilised bouillon (broth), placed them
together in a test tube. The result was the development of cultures-
presenting appearances of life such as growth and subdivision. Mr.
Burke considers that the cultures fit exactly Herbert Spencer’s definition
of life.— Cablegram.
The population question is expected to enter into a fresh
phase shortly.


CaillerS
Swiss Milk
Chocolate
pmzc competition
FREE
WATCHES
for
Everybody.
Four 18-carat Gold Watches Worth 15 Guineas each.
200 Eadies’ Keyless Corsage Watches. 72 Gent’s Keyless Eever
Watches, going 8 days. SEND YOUR ADDRESS on a
Post Card, for FUEL PARTICULARS of the above COM-
PETITION.
GAILLER’S
Mutual Life Building,
Martin Place,
SYDNEY
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH.
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHINERY.
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
WATSON’S WHISK Y.
Reach's Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
A GOOD LOSING HORSE.
SPORT: “Are you quite sure the boy up on Slow-
coach won’t pull him?”
OWNER: “ Well, I’m not sure, but I’m quite sure
he wont need to.”
The inventor of the Rodier rabbit-exter-
minating method announces by circular that he
is prepared to back his plan against any other for
£5OO. Each competitor is to cover that amount,
and to choose one member of a board with which
the decision shalllie, and which shall be “ chaired ”
by an outsider chosen by the board collective!v.
Full particulars from W. Rodier, Tambua, Cobar,
N.S.W. This reads like business.
. , j i ' j v,t ~T
A tragedy happened at Magga (N.S.W,)
recently. John Hanes was sinking a well through
drift sand, which toppled in and buried him to
the waist. His son ran for assistance, and
fa e n r cim g nliX d l , A f s» h
fall completely buried him. A neighbor des-
cended and released Ins head. The sand kept
sliding down, the rescuer working frantically to
keep breathing space for his entombed friend.
what time the latter coolly gave directions for his
own release. Then the LL came dXn Sh a
run, and the tragedy was complete.
A relic of old Lagdom was unearthed al
West Dapto (N. S. W.) not long ago—two rust-eater
leg-irons, apparently 80 years old. They were ol
the hand-cuff type, with 12 inches of chain con-
nection, and as they were locked, it is assumed
that the wearer was buried in them. They were
unearthed at the site of an old quarry which was
worked by convicts before the year 1840. It was
from this quarry that the prisoners hewed the
stone forming the foundations of the bridge at
Brownsville. In 1842 Governor Gipps ordered
the demolition of all prisoners’ stockades or bar-
racks in the locality, and wiped away, so far as he
was able, the traditions of lagdom.
* * * ■»
“ Nulla ” : Drought has nothing to do with
crows raiding orchards (B. 26/5/’O5), for drought is
the crows’ harvest-time. All the shrike family
(crows, magpies, butcher-birds, etc.) are fond of
fruit—apples and quinces especially. Parrots,
however, are extra rough on fruit in a dry time.
Green leeks used to be knocked out of trees in the
Cumberland district with a stick during the last
drought, and I’ve known a single cartridge account
for 23 in a cherry orchard near Orange. The gill-
bird is also bad on fruit, and around Sunny Corner
is known as the “ cherry-picker.” The sparrow is
specially fond of grapes, and the leather-head of
figs. [The crow is not a shrike. —Ed. B.]
“War E.” : From careful observation I
have concluded that the fox does kill lambs ; also
that the “ tongue-theory ” is more or less mythi-
cal. In eating a lamb, the fox starts on the head,
and eats his way to the heart and liver, leaving
the remainder of the carcase to the crows. In
cunning the fox isn’t a circumstance to the dingo.
I have poisoned scores of foxes with beef or
mutton baits thrown on an aniseed oil trail, and
have found that handling the baits makes no
difference. I once skinned a rabbit, rubbed in
strychnine with my hands, and scored three
foxes. Reynard is a timid animal, and easily
“bluffed.” A farmer who was losing lambs
nightly “belled” an old ewe in the flock, and no
more lambs went.
* * * *
‘ ‘Marwood” : Recently on Paringa (W. A.)
mine the cage got away when hearing the landing
stage. Falling 1300 ft. it struck the water and re-
bounded like a cheery balloon, throwing the one
occupant upwards and sideways into a drive. Just
after it had thrown him into this refuge a cataract
of broken steel rope fell on the cage and obliter-
ated it. The shift boss came down expecting to
find only a hat and a red blotch, and his hair stood
up when a voice addressed him: “ Say, boss, if
you mean to keep me down here all day I hope
you’ll send some tucker.”
* * * *
“ Ray X.” : One need not go to the alleged
heathen for superstitions in the wind-raising line.
White sailors, deep down in their
well-holes, have belief in such
things. They originated with the
first of navigators, who used to
promise young Japhet a ride on
the megalosaurus if he brought a
fair wind during his trick at the
wheel, or three pulls at the missing
link’s short tail if he brought her
two points nearer her true, course
for Mount Ararat. Such uncon-
scious belief is part of the sea,
and grows upon sailors as grow the
barnacles upon their vessel’s bottom.
No doubt it had influence oyer
even the wandering viking—like
the spirit of Eric the Red himself—
and it has similarly influenced all
shell-backs down to the present
day. As a nipper I have made
more than one voyage on a “ wind-
jammer,” and remember one skip-
per, who had special favorites
among the crew, whom he would—
when head' winds had driven him
to drink—send for, in the sure and
certain hope that they would bring
the vessel at least a few degrees
nearer her course before morning.
Many a good cigar and pound of
tobacco did he promise to give me
—when I grew up—for supposed
services in making her “ lav her
course ” after some previous Jonah
had “broken her off.” In fact,
although half-blinded by the flood
of light thrown upon this subject
by various native liars, I believe
in my own powers in this direction
as firmly as I believe in the powers
of George Reid to make a paper
surplus.
Yarruin • -Re gunpowder and boys.
Once saw a youngster putting half a flask of the
explosive into a stump on a patch of land then
being burnt off. Asked him what he was at; and
he said, “ Only going to give the cocky a bit of a
scare." Next day saw the cocky tiring that stump,
a few of his children playing around' it the while.
The powder didn’t happen to be there, a humble
instrument of Providence having removed it. The
boy was in a standing position in the distance, a
bumble instrument of Providence having hit him
so bard on the baggy section of the pants that he
couldn’t sit down with any comfort,
» * * »
“ TR'nbin V ” j- .
, Kobm N. from a place some distance
from Sydney:—
An English-Australian living in this district turned
a young daughter into cash the other day, an Indian
hawker becoming the owner for a consideration of
ft 1 . 0, T ** lS reported also that a fellow-countryman of
cVn • ulwi n d ; f « ,fe in th , e Bamo district for
"oul
of 10 of the hawkers hereabouts are Hindus or Syrians,
One fellow drives a four-in-hand, carrying a big stock
but he started with a bundle, per boot, "only a few years
a 8' 0 ;. He owes his promotion to the wives of miners and
cock *?f- An English" an started in opposition a few
™ried AU will
forsake the heathen for the Christian.
EARLY CLOSING.
BRUSHER : “’ Ow's Bill doin’ up ter Sydney, Sis?”
S IS: “O, ’is cobber wrote mother ’e was simply
coinin’ money, but the perliee broke up ’is
business with the Early Closin’ Acts. They
actually lock the pore blokes in their cells at
five o’clock.”
“ Okfcis ” : Note how our language, even,
points to the Darwinian hypothesis of man’s
descent. Witness the expression, “ That puts the
matter in a nutshell.” There can be little doubt
that this expression was evolved during a far-away
period, when man lived principally on nuts and
scratched himself in the tree-tops, and when a
nutshell was the most convenient thing for him to
put anything in. He probably kept his clothes in
nutshells then.
* * * *
“Gip” : Riding through Monaro bush I
struck a strange, rudely-written inscription nailed
to a wattle-tree : “This is the tree
what Charlie Owen’s young horse
walked round for 9 days.” A
deep groove was worn
round the tree. I asked
the history of the affair
and was told that, a year
or so back, a man riding
a young horse was
thrown, and lay in-
sensible for some
time. He recovered
and got home, but
no trace could be
found of the horse.
On the ninth day
after the occur-
rence a stockman
riding by saw a
horse’s back pro-
truding from a hole
beside a wattle
tree. It was the
missing colt, re-
duced to skin and
bone, and in a state
of exhaustion. A rope attached to its neck had
become entangled in the tree, and by continuously
walking round, first one way and then t’other, lie
had contrived to wear out a trench from which
only his back and head protruded. The horse
recovered and is still alive.
* * * *
The discovery, by black trackers, of a girl
who had be,en roaming around for five days in the
bush, near Daylesford (Vic.), is said to have
caused much excitement among the birds of the
district. When the trackers were getting near to
the lost spinster they detected strange notes of
comment and information in the cries of the on-
looking birds. These sounds must have been
intended to give “ the office ” to'the blacks, or.to
warn the girl of their approach. Probably the
latter. The sympathies of untamed creatures are
with human wanderers at large.: If a hungry
jungle tiger had to choose between a lean, respec-
table citizen and a plump gipsy) it would go for
the scraggy person in the tall hat every time.
According
to a contribu-
tor to a recent
M elbourne
Argus, a great
many places in
the Common-
wealth bear-
ing aboriginal
names are
called “I don’t,
know,” or “I
don’t under-
stand.” Mon-
aro Plains were
so named be-
cause a native
questioned
gave the reply,
“ Manyero”
(“I don’t un-
d erstarid
“Titanga” got
on to the map
in the same
way. In but
few cases have
the native
names of head-
lands and in-
lets on Port
Jackson been
retain e d.
Boree was the
name of North
Head, an d
Burrawarra of
South Head,
Sydney har-
bor. Middle
Harbor was
known to the
blacks as
Boombilli;
Farm Cove
Beach as Cook-
aroo ; Figtree
Point as Ooo-
roowal; Dawes
Point as Taba-
gulla ; Lane
Cove River ns
Yurranburra ;
Pincligut Island as Mat-
tawunga ; Farm Cove as
Yah Loong; Cockatoo Island as Warianbab.
Walarah, the native name of Point Piper, has
been changed into Woollahra. The spot where
Captain Cook landed, known to the blacks of the
period as Kundul, is now called Kurnel.
*** ' *
“Paul ,C.” : Be the rabbit’s climbing
ability. Recently saw a man run one with Ins
dog into the butt of a hollovv stump, perpendi-
cular and about 12 feet high. Man lit a fire in
the butt, and got on his hands and knees to blow
it, but as soon as the smoke began to come out at
top bunny came out too, considered the situation
for a moment, then cheerfully hopped down on
his besieger's neck, causing him to dab his m se
info the lire and make tremendous remarks.
A JEWET.
“ Spare-me-Days ” : He mouse running
into gdanna’s month. Lent a game cock to a
friend, and when I asked for his return, friend,
with tears in his eyes, told me the rooster was no
more. . He had been choked by a mouse that
tried to run down his throat.
THE HOME OF THE BLACK SWAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
On leafy pools, by lonely deeps,
Fenced in by brown rock wall,
Whereon a mountain shadow sweeps,
A silence over all,
Far from the gales, the black swan sails,
Through rushes green and tall.
Ills borne is where the blue-winged teal
Oft hide the sun from sight;
Down where the misty shadows reel,
And, leaping in the night,
The black bream break, upon the lake,
The silver spray of light.
There on the edge of islands green,
His little cygnets play ;
Dodging the lilies, in between,
And all the live-long day,
The black duck rings, the reed bird sings,
And giant rushes sway.
From billabong to billabong,
Where glassy waters flow,
Aceomp’nied by the magpies’ song,
His young ones learn to row,
While fisher kings, with flashing wings,
Are passing to and fro.
Hound where the wagtail builds its nest,
The robin learns his hymn,
He sees the lyre-bird comb its breast,
The bronzed sw 7 allow skim,
While all around the spoonbills sound,
And darters dive and swim.
In golden light of noon-day sun,
On sandy shallow slides,
The snipe and spurwing plover run ;
And round the steeper sides
Toe damp rats creep. Down in the deep,
Ornithorhyncus glides.
In eucalyptian sweetness, where
The soft winds come to tell
Their story through the gum-tree’s hair,
Of mountain, tree, and w 7 ell,
He hears the call, the rise and fall,
Of the honey-eater’s bell.
There w'hen the day begins to die,
And dingoes prowl and creep,
His brood comes to his trumpet cry,
And out upon the deep,
From all his foes, the black swan rows
Among the stars to sleep.
VIC.
H. BUCHANAN.


WOLFE’S Schnapps
MEANS BUSINESS WHEN IT TACKLES
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES;
I dreamt that I tossed on a fever’d bed
(With the curtains gather’d and drawn).
With a hacking cough and a burning head,
Vainly waiting the tardy dawn.
When close to my bedside an angel came,
With a phial of liquid pure, j
And I read on the label a magic name—
It was Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
We make •
dftAINS
in our own Workrooms.
Made with AUSTRALIAN GOLD.
Made by AUSTRALIAN WORK-
MEN.
We thus save cutomers 27 £ per
cent. duly.
FINISH a special feature.
Every link solid throughout.
Impossible to wear them out.
PRlCES—Bedrock—the Lowest.
MAKERS —not wholesale intermediar
but makers, direct to wearers.
Solid 15ct. GOLD ALBERTS, £5 ss. to
£lO lOs., to any design.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“Dave H. R.” : Be “Cronje” and the
caterpillars (B. 15/6/’O5). “Cronje” says: “J
killed the leader. The next in command took the
lead ; then I killed him.” Why all this eagerness
to kill something, as if we were all undertakers or
butchers, or Red Indians out on a scalp-hunt ?
Couldn’t “Cronje,” if he was eager to try an ex-
periment, just as easily have removed the leading
caterpillar to temporary durance vile, or some
other convenient spot, and still have made his
valuable observations? Surely we have enough
jackass-bangers and lyre-bird extirpators in the
country without augmenting the bloodthirsty list
by the addition of obliterators of caterpillars !
With reference to the brand of caterpillar that
“Cronje” inquires about, it is the “white-haired”
or “spotted” variety—very common out-back.
They build huge hanging nests in myall, boree,
and other trees, and when the young are born they
instantly swarm over the tree and strip it of every
leaf and bit of bark. If a person in climbing one of
these trees happens to break a nest and receive,its
contents down his neck, the result is, almost
invariably, a series of large, red lumps, which
itch .to such an extent as almost to drive the
sufferer mad.
* * * *
“Janor”: To place snakes in the order
of-their deadliness (B. 15/6/ 0.5), I should say the
adder first, then the “ tiger.” Have seen a dog
die in 20 minutes after meeting the striped gentle-
man, and a man in three hours. Think the black
and brown tie for third place. “ San Remo ”is
right about the ignorance which prevails in the
bush re snake bite and its treatment. A man re-
cently bitten in Gippsland was treated by a
neighbor with a decoction of the seed fronds of
tree ferns. The patient recovered, because the
biter was a carpet snake—that is to say, he re-
covered from the beastly fern soup. But the
bush doctor took all the credit, because the popular
belief is that all snakes are poisonous. He is quite
proud of his remedy, and would rush with great
violence to treat the bite of an adder with the
same hog-wash.
■* * * *
“ Werrimee” : Be “San Remo” on snakes
(22/6/’O5). I have often seen the brown snake with
frogs, but never knew it to crush them with its
coils. I don’t think any of the smaller Australian
snakes crush anything ; small birds and animals
that are caught are certainly swallowed alive. I
once saw a green snake th ust its head into the
mortice of a road post to get a large green frog
that was crouched behind the end of the rail.
Having seized the prey, it immediately tried to
swallow it; but Batrachus objected, and puffed
himself up just as he got across the swallowing
apparatus, and thus pinned the snake in the mor-
tice till an aggressive agriculturist came out and
killed it. “San Remo” also speaks of a 40ft.
boa. Gunther (among other experts) says the
1 srgest specimens of boas and pythons seldom
exceed 20ft. And where did “ San Remo ” see a
17ft. carpet snake? M‘Cooey stated (Bulletin,
dO/l/’OO) that “ Morelia variegata. never attains a
greater length than 13ft., but Liasis childrenii
(rock snake) may attain to a length of 24ft.”
Against this, Krefft says: “An Australian rock
snake at 10ft. or lift, must be considered a mon-
ster. ... A diamond or carpet snake which
measures 10ft. in length may be more than 20
years old.” They don’t extend lengthways, as a
rule, after their 20th birthday. Most bushmen
measure by stepping; “San Remo” must take
very short steps. What is the longest snake killed
in Australia (measurements by Jim’s whip or Bill’s
feet not admitted) ?
> * * *
“ P.L.F.” : I once shot at and wounded a
big dingo, which made off down the mountain
side, falling every few yards. After chasing
him about 500 yards, I overtook him, and he
turned on me. While I was finding a stick he
kept biting at his foot, and when I had killed him
I found that he had nearly bitten off about three
inches of his leg. Now was he trying to eat him-
self so that I wouldn’t have him as a trophy ?
IN THE NEAR FUTURE—ONE OF JAPAN'S FIGHTING LINES WHEN
CHINA IS AWAKENED.
“The Prooshan ” : Be aboriginal methods
of trying suspects. The Edwards River tribe
places the accused on his knees, and gives him a
shield, which he is allowed to hold before him,
nose high. Those immediately concerned in his
prosecution then stand off a prescribed distance,
and throw nullas at all the physiognomy visible
above the culprit’s shield. On no account must he
cover in defence or flinch. If struck, he is ad-
judged guilty, and dealt with according to code,
provided the nulla leaves anything to be desired
in that respect, and it usually takes a good deal of
nulla to persuade a nigger’s head to die.
A DECEIVER.
LOCAL BOOZER: “ Wot's up, Peter?"
Shanty-keeper (justly enraged): “ See that
bloke? Well, I knoo ’e ’ad a cheque, an’,
friendly-like, I arst ’im wot ’e’d ’ave. An'
loot d’yer think the cow ’ad I—op beer !”
By “ Alex. Zander,” the Unreliable :
Re “B.” on the dugong (B. 22/6/’O5). “B” saj's the
dugong carries its young one under its flipper. He
evidently hasn’t seen a mothers’ meeting in Dugongland.
I have seen a party of ypung and old dugong ladies
sitting up in the shallows nursing their kiddies, and
discussing Georgie’s whooping cough or Araminta’s scar-
latina, and scandalising like ordinary Christians. I have
often seen them spanking their offspring with seaweed.
The dugong uses both flippers nursing its baby, like any
other woman. As to the assertion that the skin of the
dugong is about two inches thick—we caught an old
fellow one day whose hide was so thick that we had to
ringbark him with an axe.
• * * ■ *
“Long Un ” : I know an old fellow over
60 who has never worn a shirt of any kind for 20
years, and he says he has never had a cold during
that time.
* * * *
“Boss”: Be strange meats. Once, at
Aden, tried an ostrich egg omelette. Found it
like sawdust and dripping.
“ Jim Pan : Just performed the night-
mareish two days and two nights continuous
coach journey from Broken Hilt to Milparinka.
The only decent expanse of green, herbage was
that which now lies in and round'Silver City,
Saw only three rabbits. Things must be bad
when bunny vanishes. The drought promises to
do for this North-West corner. Outbackers say
that there'll be no shearing this year unless rain
comes soon. One may travel for miles without
seeing even a wild cabbage patch. The only
animals that look at all well are the goats. They
feed on quartz and ironstone and red sand.
“ J. 8.” : Can any Bulletin reader give
the correct name for the “ tailor-fish ” (considered
uneatable), caught in the Lachlan ? ”
Said the constable :
“ That’s a moighty slow
toime the sinthry has
oyer there —a job Oi
wudn’t like at ahl. Oi
wuz in the sogers mesilf
wanst; an’ Oi wuz or-
dherly to an officer.
’Twuz at an Aysther
camp, y’ know, in the
ould days. Me man wuz
there for a spree, an’
moi wurrd ! he had it.
Sez he to me, ‘ Here’s
me keys, and you’ve got
to luk afther me ov
noights ’; an’, divil shoot
me ! Oi did have a toime
lookin’ afther him. Many
a toime I nearly got shot be the
sinthry. Oi had a big roll ov me
boss’s notes, an’ it wuz whips o’
money Oi saved him that spree.
He'd say, ‘Gimme some splosh !’
an’ Oi’d give him a poun’ off the
roll o’ notes; an’ whin he had
done that in Oi moight give him
another, or Oi might nat. An’
Oi’d the run of ahl his cigars an’
things.* Musha ! but it wuz the
gran’ toime—me pay goin’ light
on, an’ divil a han’s turn to do in
the daytoime. Well, whin the camp
bruk up me boss sez to me, ‘ Now, luk
at here, Murphy, what you’ve heard an’ seen
here, you undershtand, you’ve teetotally forgotten
ahl about.’ An’ nixt day he hands me a cheque
for nivir moind phvvat ! But bedad ! ’twas the
koind ov raal good bizhness that only happens to
a mahn wanst in his loifetoime ! ”
• * • *
Harry Stockdale re record jump by kan-
garoo : —•
I cannot say what is the record, but the animal’s jump-
ing powers are extraordinary. About 33 years ago I was
driving on Burrabogie station, on the way to Hay
(N.S.W.), with the late Mr. Dow, generally called
“ Jacky ” Dow, and we saw a “blue-flyer” approaching,
pursued by a dog. When the fugitive sighted our buggy,
it made a bound which fairly astonished us. Having a
tape with us, we measured the jump, and found that it
covered a few inches over 41 feet, thus beating the horse
record (Chandler’s) by 4ft. The kangaroo’s ordinary
bound is from 12 to 15 feet.
* * » *
“Gip”: Last winter I tamed a magpie
sufficiently to make her eat from my hand. _ In
spring she took unto herself a mate and built in a
gum tree, handy to my hut. By degrees she
coaxed the old man to come to me too, and as
soon as her three babies were old enough she
proudly brought them down. Result, at day-
break, five maggies sit on my verandah-rail and
yell at me till I get up and feed them. If tire
youngsters follow in their mother’s footsteps, I’ll
have to get extra rations next summer.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on .1 IS. No liability is under
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Democi’at : Joke was damp and wouldn't
explode... .Blowering : Sydney harbor entrance measures
over a mile “ from head to head,” and the name of the
man who walked across it on a tight rOpe was Ananias—
M.P.S. : Well, that medical story was written by an
artist, and sub-edited by a man who has trained as a
barrister, and by another man who is an authority on Malay
literature and art ; so if the medical facts were wrong,
we at least tried to get them right... .L.D. (W.A.) : Cer.
tainly. Centuries ago there were fewer historical writers,
and less care taken in recording events ; so that the early
history of England is less complete than the later
one, but there has been no real “break.” Z.: No
R.: That Protestant cow yarn seems familiar somehow...
Laurie West: Good low-comedy material, unskilfully
treated W.W.B. : Prosy and ineffective M.G.J. : A
feeble effort Darkie : Cumbrously: set forth. Try a
lighter touch C.C.W.: For about the; 1000th time—we
have not room to acknowledge pars.... A. M‘K. : Has all
been said before—and better Frank D. : You miss the
point with great dexterity Winda: Roth returned
accordingly 11.G.E. : Nothing in that... .R.J.E.: Im-
practicable in form... .V.E.B. :No; we can’t “ enter it in
Bulletin.” We pay for all we accept... .Owen P.: Begins
well, but peters out lamentably.. ..Domino: Lacks the
necessary briskness and animation... .Gibi: Satire not in-
cisive or well-directed enough Thomas B. : Poetic
feeling and some gift of expression, but grievous lack of
skill... .Safety L. : Apparently based on an old Bulletin
yarn O.F.F. : “Off”; yes—very much 50!....C. O’R. :
Promisein it. .H.H.G.: Norfolk Isle has been done so often
in The Bulletin Inky: Idea useless... .Joseph : You’re
an entirely unsatisfactory poet Anti-Yellow: That
yarn is just a dirty invention. There were some hints at
the time of a sex motive—incest was the theory, but
there was little evidence to support it, and certainly no
evidence to bear out the yarn you heard C.G.: No
use for verses that have already appeared in another
paper R.J.E. : Sketch bad, and verse worse Nilgo :
None of it first-class, and some of it hardly second
Eunice : Tragic in spots, but never gets far enough away
from the conventional... .G.M. : Well enough in its way,
but lacks Australian interest... .Arthur D. : Well con-
ceived, but your touch isn’t light enough for satire
W.A.R. : Well, the man who wrote the story is a darned
good artist anyhow, even if his medical facts are wrong.
If he has hurt vour feelings we will fisk him to: come out
and paint the front of your house bright red, with green
stripes and a chrome shriek in the middle, by way
of compensation.... Darkey : Very primitive verse....
J..J.C. : “Chinese Welcome ” has hardly snap enough
J.M.B : What you want you will find in varioui articles
within the next few weeks Fool: How you justify your
pen-name ! You object to the Cheap laborers coming here
“ because they would bring your wages down, but that’s
different to getting their goods—minus themselves.” In
what wav different ? It is the cheap workers’:cheap goods,
not their personal presence, that brings your wages down.
If the black and yellow men came here and didn’t work
they wouldn’t affect your wages a penny.! But if they
stay at home and work for the. consumer yon used to
supplv, down come your wages.... J.M. : Not suitable for
picture use Golf a : (1) All contributions are treated as
strictly confidential, and there is no human possibility of
any hint leaking out as to the matter you send. (2) That
N.S.W. “ labor daily ” scheme collapsed, as Was predicted
from the first.... .T.R. : Hardly up to the mark
M. i,. : Well, Tub Bulletin would like to see it established
as a principle that, somehow, the rush to the pawnshop
should be stayed. That really is the one vital issue of
State politics, just as finding employment for the people
by High Protection arid a progressive land-tax are
vital issues of Federal politics. It is absurd to argue that
Bent's non-borrowing year loses all merit because he
hasn’t perfected every detail of Government adminis-
tration. The Bulletin doesn’t hope, at present, for
financial honesty and perfection. That will c’ome later
Jimmie : The nigger runner who “bolted” is older than
the hills. Ditto the “virgin” joke. Is the third yarn
about the horse that bore to the left also a chestnut ?
C.T. : “Spring Song” doesn’t spring much and hardly
sings at all Melb. : That yarn about DoWie’s conces-
sion in Mexico is probably a Zion lie unless the great
Diaz is in his dotage Wal. D.: Rhymes go to pieces
badly in “Lullaby.” “Good-hve” and eventide,”
“bed ” and “laivs” are fearful samples P.A.C, :
“Orchestra” has no charm.... Mack : Poem being very
short we put it here
. .Sardonyx : You don’t seem able to see a! very obvious
joke Ratchet : Don’t profess to have the least idea
what will happen to the “sanctity of the marriage tie”
if scientific men begin to manufacture children bv
radium A. Parkhill: The cases are pot parallel.
Hughes had to put on the table any despatch that
arrived, and if the first official document i ; hat reached
him when he took office was a trumpery thing like that
sent out from Britain, he wasn’t responsible. He didn’t
make the spreading of the miserable title of “Hon.” a
part of his political programme... .Unsuitable : Mack,
Frank L.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
L. : Paint joke is almost as old as Punch .... W.F.N. :
Why the whirlwind of curly decoration about the picture ?
... .P. : Neither “ Big Ben ” nor his friend is of sufficient
importance.... D. : The boy who was standing on sixpence
is an old joke badly told and badly illustrated, Bert
bevy did it for Tub Bulletin when it was still compara-
tively new... ,S,M. : Idea as old as Shakspeare, He said
something about the disproportion of bread and sack
State (or S. Tate, or G. Tate, or Slate, or E. Tale, or some-
thing like that): Sketch of very stiff man and ditto
women declined.... A.C. : More libellous than artistic....
Don : Can’t conscientiously say there’s a good one in the
lot Al. Mac. : Declined." Stamp received, but no name
or address on back Line Block : Don't profess to
answer a quarter of the art contributors in this column.
They are divided into (1) accepted, (2) returned, (3)
answered. Can’t recall the matter you speak of now
J. 11.0. : Not a convincing “ Yes-N0.”... .Butler : No
parson who looked like that ever did dress for dinner
P.S. : That joke died when an old Duke of Clarence faded
away in a barrel of wine.. . .Chick : The subjects are riot
too well chosen and the gags are none too good. But in
an artistic sense there is considerable improvement, and
there should be hope for you.
GIVEN UP.
MRS. HARGUS (nurse to Georye Reid): “ And is
there no hope, doctor ?”
DOCTOR: " None whatever, madam. He is suffer-
ing from acute Deakinitis in the region of
his Ballarat.”
A returned Australian writes :
Coming' round the Horn it was so cold that when the
skipper wanted to give an order to the mate on the
fo’c’s’le head one of the chaps would catch the order
amidships, run to the galley fire and thaw it, then bolt
with it in his hat to the mate.
JAMBEROO.
11l passing through
I wondered who
Named Jamberoo,
And whether he,
Being on a spree,
Meant Jamboree,


“STONE WALLS DO NOT A PRISON MAKE.”
THOMAS MICHAEL : "MY WORD, JACK, IT WAS A MIGHTY SMALL HOLE, BUT IT SERVED THE PURPOSE.”


WeH , - to# (\to fZ&iJi —r —"
Wihfinen for JoWed ©«f"mfWs apKed fay
NoT V All neC€ s svy~ BoHy Ityows *l/
us \ : ~ Y ojaK very own Q°°s<£, George!
&*r Ihi -fb eooK ir for you'.
,c -7 Kow botfe ajt. niw's. be
-fo tfje a< binder h-jy %
He (Ktfox) ufojcj liKe fb ptjislj
Itje- sejjioH Appeal
County
w
%
W X
l ef See .I feels if
ff°w we f>vr -feV joo'd - see T
If to ‘rtje mTmsh pjr
fo 'five %re\i tools of- Wigry njert
looKiiro 'for w orK .
5
x X
fvje greater
to S?e 'll)e
WorKitjp hr)\n
*T wo>K "
Towi
if>>
-fit' * sj,liK
ny
, f-RtMcip L . e
•
tt M s*y s
~n>c Womens LeA que
M tie Wisli J 0 r /
v)Q - /
bat it /
£\ necessity
V h' l \
*
Cyceycije it
• _
r ' ere
w bile i sf>/;r
Jer W wiif
vote You
me i "
fe«d> of,!oV i^'ol ) l 4^4!
Pe*Ki»o you rv)is^^cK &
hoe Cforg: — Ttis
Is *>ic&b'f~!
BE AKIN’S AWAKENING, AND OTHER MATTERS.


A. SAUNDERS FOR PRESENTATIONS
SPECIAL CONCESSIONS
made to RACE CLUBS, SOCIETIES, and INSTITUTES.
SELECTION SENT ON APPROVAL.
SILVER,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Presentation Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
LEVERS, £5, £6, £7, £B. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25. Guaranteed for 4,5, 6,7,
and 8 years.
K
U
1
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation Seal Leather WRITING CASE, Sterling
Silver Mounts, Fitted with every convenience, also
extra Russian Leather Blotting Pad, £3 ss. Other
Styles, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
GOLD,
immiiintinimiiiiiiiiiiiiimimiimiiimiiiiiMinm
n
£2 5s
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation Ladies’ Solid Silver Hobnail Cut Glass
TOILET SET, comprising- Hairpin Holder,; Scent Bottle,
Puff Box and Pomade Box, in Silk-lined Leather Case,
£2 ss. Larger, £3 10s.
Larger,
£3 10s
A. SAUNDERS.
£4 10s
Handsome Presentation 8-Day Cathedral Striking
Marble CLOCK, Jewelled, Visible Escapement, £4 10s.
Guaranteed for 5 Years. Other Styles, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £5, £5 10s, £6 10s„ £7 10s, £lO, to £2O.
£4 10s
s Ji
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s or Gent.’s Leather TRAVELLING BAG, Silk
Lined, fitted with every convenience, Nickel Fittings.
Lady’s £4, Gent.’s £4 ss. Solid Silver Fittings,
£4 10s. Gent.’s, £5 10s, £6 lCs, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO 10S, £l2 10s, £l5.
m
&
A. SAUNDERS.
Combination SUPPER DISH, Biscuit, Butter, and
Cheese, with Servers, Pure Silver-Plated on Nickel
Silver, Satin Glass Lining, £3. Hand-Painted Carlton
Ware, without Servers, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-Plated,
Handsomely Embossed,
4 inch high, in 4 styles,
15s (id, 20s, 255, 30s eaen.
—i*
ter
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER or MILK JUG,
Pure Silver-Plated on
Nickel Silver, 355.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, £2.
£5
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA and COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-Plated, Hand Engraved, Fern Design, Gilt Lined, comprising
4 Pieces, made expressly (to our order) by James Dixon and Sons, £5. Other Styles, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6, £7,
£lO 10s, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25, £3O, £35, £4O, £5O.
«£5
A. SAUNDERS.
Four-Cup EGG FRAME and SPOONS, Pure Silver-
Plated, Handsomely Fluted and Ornamented, £2 10s.
Other Styles, 21s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 455.
%s»
mmm
■wj:
Ituiyyi
A. SAUNDEUS.
Presentation TOILET SET, Solid Silver, comprising 2
Brushes, Mirror, and Comb, in Silk-Lined Leather Case,
£6. Other Styles, £2, £3, £4, £5, £lO, £l5, £25.
A. SAUNDERS,
yAjWnoUq
M i
A. SAUNBERS.
PRESENTATION TROWEL, Pure Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver, Carved Ivory Handle,
Ecautifully Chased, 12 inches long, in Silk-Lined Leather Case , £4 10s.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4 10s.
For Sporting Men.
No. 8,
A. SAUNDERS.
ZEISS PRISMATIC FIELD GLASSES, absolutely the
finest made, with Solid Leather Case and Sling com-
plete, No. 6, £8; No. 8, £9.
LEMAIRES, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £2 15s, £4 10s, £5 10s.
NO. 8
£9
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation Stag INKSTAND and PEN BOX, Pure
Silver-Plated, Hobnail Cut-Glass Bottles, £2. Other
Styles, 30s, 355, £2 10s, £3, £3 ss, £4, £5.
ilijlla
■
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation MANICURE SET, Solid Silver, Hand-
somely Pierced, comprising 8 Pieces (all Silver), in
Silk-lined Leather Case, £4 10s. Other Styles, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £4, £O.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET.
Opposite
Railway
Station.


D
0
Of the Skin and Scalp Speedily
Cured by Baths with
Soap to cleanse the skin of crusts
and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle, gentle applications of Cuti-
cura Ointment to instantly allay
itching, irritation, and inflammation,
and soothe and heal, and mild doses
of Cuticura Pills to cool and cleanse
the blood. A single set is often
sufficient to cure.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Fills are sold throughout
the world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris,
5 Rue delaFaix; Australia, R. 'towns &, Co., Sydney;
Boston, TJ. S. A„ Potter Drug & Chem. C orp., Sole Props.
BSr’Mailed free, “ The Great Humour Cure.”
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
DAY
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
CURABLE.
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years ; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
CONGREVE'S
BALSAMIC
LIXIR
FOR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS
COUCHS, COLDS,
CONSUMPTION.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERa
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price Sea., Post Free.
I rom Coombe Lodge, Peckham, London, S.E., England
C. Stratmann’s <
FINE...
Made on tiie
Premises
CHOCOLATES and
SWEETfIEATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
The Mails make us all Neighbors.
'ypOU can buy as safe/y and satisfactorily by letter as if you
" came in person. Our Mail Order Department is at your
service, and inquiries regarding prices, qualities and styles
will be answered promptly. Write for our Illustrated Cata-
logue, mentioning what you are specially interested in. We
deliver any article we sell, free to your door.
No. G43sX—Very Handsome and Strong 9ct.
Gold Brooch, stone set, £1 ss.
No. G 5205. —Set. Gold, Leaf Centre and Two
Bar Brooch, 12s Bd.
No. 6.—lsct. Gold and Fine Opal Brooch,
£1 17s 6d
No. G69S9.—Em-
bossed and Silver-
Hated Call-Bell,
9s 6d.
No. G 4066.— Gold-lined Silver-
plated Trinket Box, 17s 6d.
No. G 4175. —New Art Design Solid Silver-
mounted Boot Button Hook, 3s.
No. G2631.-—3sct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Brooch, £1 10s.
No. 30.—Very Pretty 15ct. Gold and Fine Opal
and Pearl set Bee Brooch, £2 10s.
No. G44sl.—Fine Real Pearl and 9ct. Gold
Brooch, 80s.
No. G 6984. —Silver-plated
Table or Office Call-Bell,
11s 6d.
No. Gsl4B.—Solid
Silver-mounttd
Bedroom Clock,
27s 6d.
No. G4l76.—New Art Design Solid Silver-
mounted Shoe Lift, 3s 6d.
No. G 2098. —9ct.
Gold and Green-
stone Lace Pin,
6s 6d.
No. G 3284. —9ct. Gold New Style Bamboo Bracelet.
Price 45s ; larger sizes, 55s and 635.
Solid Silver Buttons in Cases. Sets of six, up-to-date styles,
for 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s.
No. G 4599. Gold
and Greenstone
Lucky Shoe Lace
Pin, 12s 6d.
No. GlOB. —Solid Silver Manicure Set, £2 15s.
Silver-plated
Orange Peeler.
Is 6d.
No. G 447- —Solid Silver Midget
Photo. Frame, 2s' 6d.
No. G3582.—C/of E. Hymn and Praye
Book in Silver-Mounted Case, 12s 6d
*
No. G 7045. — Sterling Silver Manicure
Set, £1 Is.
Write To-Day for
Our Illustrated
Price List.
No. G7049.—0ut Glass
and Solid Silver Tooth
Brush Stand, 21s.
No. G4227.—Finest Silver-Plated 3-Piece
Afternoor. Tea Set, £3 17 a (id.
" ' ' 1 " ' ' ■■■
Mira
HE
No. G7O4C'. —Sterling- Silver Manicure Set,
£1 ss.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
George St. & Strand, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ Wonga ” : Some bush stores are very silent
places. The other day, whilst visiting a strange, dead-
looking- old township with two other girls for company, I
turned into the defunct-looking store to buy some sweets.
A man, lolling on the counter with a newspaper, rolled
off, grunting with surprise, and, after a suspicious in-
spection, advised me to knock hard, as he thought “ they
had some visitors away at the back.” I knocked hard,
and the man, who seemed an obliging sort of creature,
shouted and kicked hard on the counter. Out rushed a very
young male person looking much like an ant whose hill
has been poked. The other man introduced me with
a grunt and a jerk of his thumb. The ant spoke
politely. “Was I desirous of seeing Mr. Jones?” I
wanted to see the storekeeper, I said. He vanished.
Entered presently an astonished-looking man. Some
heads peeped round a distant door. I gathered up my
courage and boldly asked for sixpenn’orth of mixed
lollies. For an instant the proprietor gazed through my
head into space. Then, like a man who suddenly recalls
a long-forgotten habit, he dashed behind the counter, and
spread out his hands, with an alluring smile. He hadn’t
any mixed lollies, but he had any amount of flour, castor-
oil, and camp-ovens, if they would do.
* * * *
“Vulcan” : A man’s sister getting married, he
deferred giving her a present until she’d sorted out her
wedding haul and had found what was lacking. A clock
being a felt want, he purchased an expensive one from a
reputable Sydney jeweller, and, after paying for it, gave
directions for it to be sent on. Three months later his
sister wrote him firmly re his present’s non-arrival. Call-
ing on the jeweller hastily, he badly wanted to know
things. Jeweller was astounded ; he almost wept with
annoyance; the matter had completely escaped his
memory. A sister (or a near relative at most) would be
the one person who’d venture to write the sender in the
circumstances, and I begin to speculate on the number of
other presents which continue to lie snugly on the shop-
man’s shelf what time their givers face a secretly-resent-
ful bride in blissful Unconsciousness.
« » * *
“Uroka” sends this from Queensland as a true
bill The postmaster in Thurgomulla broke his only
lamp-glass, and by the light of his last candle wrote a
requisition for another, (getting no reply, he borrowed
a candle from the local policeman, and penned a
petition to be allowed to purchase a few candles. After
many days his first letter returned, marked in red
ink, '“P. Master, Thurgomulla, to report in tabular
form.” After much digging amongst old vouchers,
and more drawing on his imagination, the post-
master managed to concoct a fairly reason-
able-looking report. Having despatched this, he
proceeded to build for himself a “ fat lamp.”
He had only been burning his “ fat lamp ” a few months
when his application for candles pro tern, returned, with
a note in red ink, calling his attention to reg. 150,
“which distinctly states that officers of this de-
partment are expected to practise the most rigid
economy during the present year.” This letter was
marked B C—which didn’t mean “Before Christ,”
but “This letter to be returned.” He wondered how he
could have been such a fool as not to see such an apparent
thing as that at once. Nothing occurred to break
the monotony until one day tie was informed that he was
65 next year ; also he was required to show cause why he
shouldn ; t be sacked for the same. To take his place came
a spruce, up-to-date young postmaster, who found the
“fat lamp.” Of course, he immediately wrote to head
office. After a few months he got an answer—in the
shape of the original application for a lamp glass with
beautiful red notes all over it—“ To P.M. Thargomulla for
report,” “ Refer to Govt, storekeeper,” “ Price to be
obtained for this article,” “To be held over pending
return of P.M.G.,” “ Should have been applied for in the
annual requisition for stock”; and finally, “Vote ex-
hausted, to be held over till the end of the financial year.”
By the next mail came another communication. No other
than the old application for candles marked with a big
red “Approved.”
-X * * *
Light was thrown on the “splendid natural
resources ” of Sydney’s beautiful harbor lately, when a
man gave evidence that he made a living by sweeping the
harbor bottom for articles which had strayed overboard.
One man in Balmain, living on a water frontage, has
stocked his poultry yard from flotsam on the harbor
waters. Providence and the tide send him firewood ;
and a tempting dummy, erected on the general principles
of Aunt Sally, brings him coal from the ferry boats. One
day a porker appealed for assistance at the water edge,
and there was pork and rejoicing in the family for days ;
and a fish-trap provides his breakfast pretty regularly.
There used to be an “ industry ” in stealing rowing skiffs
at Manly, bringing them to Sydney, repainting and sell,ng
them ; but it doesn’t thrive nowadays.
* * * *
“ Gilrooney ” : T’other clay I met a peregrin-
ating picture-seller on the Great South-road. After
chatting awhile he grew confidential. “You see, I
get a list of the people I’m to call on during the day,
and of course to be forewarned is to be forearmed. When
I come to Murphy’s or Maloney’s I’m an exemplary
Catholic, selling only good Catholic pictures. Then
I call on Hicks, to whom I explain that I’m selling
Protestant pictures for my living. And when I meet
a pagan I sell him ‘ Love’s Young Dream ’ or ‘ The
Ballet Girl’s Bathroom.’ A man has to subdivide his
carry-all into half-a-dozen sections, and try to please
everybody.” Whereupon I told him I was a bitter and
persecuting Baptist, and for the sum of fifteen-pence
I bought a fascinating litho. of a maiden disrobing.
After telling him that he’d be sure to sell some Catholic
pictures to the next farmer (a whole-souled Orangeman),
and some pagan works of art to the grazier further on (a
sincere Catholic), I hugged the “Disrobing Maiden ” to
my heathen bosom and departed.
.* ■* * . •
“Gestan”: Lately an order was received in
Sydney, from America, for a number of young, live kan-
garoos. Intended to liberate them in some part not
adapted for raising cattle or sheep, and see how they get
on. If they thrive, more kangaroo, and a big and profit-
able business in skins, &c., is expected. But the Aus-
tralian trapper will wonder how the other fellow is going
to make a profit. Taking as a guide the average price
paid to Australian shooters and trappers, although it
might just about pay to get skins if ’rods were naturally
plentiful, it certainly would not pay to raise them. The
American trapper won’t, however, have to send his skins
to the other end of the earth before he reaches a market;
for Protection has built him a market in his own land.
That will save thousands of miles of cartage and about
five middlemen’s profits, and will give him a big pull over
the Australian until the Australian develops the Ameri-
can’s sense in tariff matters.
* * • . *
“8.W.”: A couple of months ago I saw an
advertisement from a Northern district employer in a
Sydney daily paper, and took the job at miserable wages.
Agreement was that if I didn’t come up to expectations
within six months I was to lose the advanced boat-fare. All
went grandly for two months ; then the owner of the place
decided that, to put him on the safe side, I should have
to repay my boat fare (already advanced) by instalments,
which would be refunded in a lump sum at the end of the
six months agreement. Had no option but to consent.
Just when the advanced amount was wiped off, but before
the six months were up, I was peremptorily sacked. Have
made inquiries and find that the practice is generally
carried out by gome up-country employers to take the
unfortunate down for his fare.
* * » o
i “Cosmos ” : Some youngsters gathered outside
my window, t’other day. “ Play shops,” said the eldest
(about 6 years). “ I’ll'keep the shop, and you come to
buv things, and you don’t bring any money, and I’ll give
vtm some things, and you’ll say you’ll fetch the money
to-morrow, and I’ll ask you your name and you’ll give me
a wrong name, and when you have bought a lot of things
you’ll shift away and don’t pay me at all—see ! ” Oh, yes,
they’d all play: and thus the game commenced that
would last right through their lives.
** * •
“W.J.W.”: Strolling home rather late, met a
drunk who asked the hour. Whilst I felt for my watch
he was telling me what a good time he had spent; also he
was clean broke, and didn’t know how the devil he was
going to get home. Just then an idea struck him. He
had a bottle of whisky that he was taking home. “By
Jove, old chap,” he said, “you might (hie) do a fellow a
good turn (hie). Say, will you give me a cab fare for
this? It cost me flve-and-six. You can have it for four
bob.” I remonstrated that, as I neverdrankwhisky.it
was no good to me. However, he being insistent, I com-
promised with half-a-crown. Got home, opened the
neatly-capsuled, genuine-looking bottle of whisky, and
found colored water.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORC2 STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
pa7o OINTMENT is jmaranteed to cure any case of
Itohim*-, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how lonjr standing:, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days: This is a new discovery, and it is the
<m’v Pile Remedv sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. M.
«,r all chemists. PARIS MEDICINE CO., Temple
Chambers, London, E.C. England.*
Have you got a thorough chill,
Goose all over, really ill;
Wheezing, sneezing,; shrill ana high,
Furry tongue, and watery eye ;
Oblivious to the world s affairs.
All its sorrows, pleasures, cures
Useless suffering, why endure ?
Take Woods’ Grkat Peppermint Curb.
CSS-0 I*o EEET.Xi-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if
you want real good stamps, send to
FRED. HA<SEN,
foreign" STAMP IMPORTER,
74- Elizabeth St., SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The anti-Socialism campaign is dead. Let
os now get to business.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers speaks mov-
ingly to the Lands Commission about “the mis-
fortune of holding office.” The misfortune is not
all on his side. The country carries the larger
half of it.
An amending Arbitration Act may secure
preference for Australian unionists over Austra-
lian non-unionists; but only a higher tariff can
secure preference for Australian unionists over
foreign non-unionists.
With the retirement of Mr. Moule from
the “Usher of the Black Rod” business, N.S.W.
Premier Carruthers had an opportunity to quietly
drop the silly mummery into oblivion. But a
new appointment to the useless office has been
made by this “Reform” Government.
At N.S.W. State general election of 1898,
George Reid directed that his party should not
put a single candidate into the field to contest an
electorate against a Labor candidate. For the
forthcoming Federal elections Yes-No calls on his
party to fight the Labor candidate in every
electorate.
Thus a Crow-eater pressman :
It is very difficult to predict what will happen when
Premier Butler meets the S.A. Parliament. On paper the
Labor (15) and Liberal (9) parties have 24 votes against
any combination which the Conservatives and the Govern-
ment can possibly arrange. But politicians in South
Australia are shifty cattle, and the only organisation one
can be sure of is the Labor party. Butler is confident
that he can get enough supporters to his standard —the
banner of the turned coat and the political wild cat —to
worry through with, although nobody else thinks so. Still
Jenkins, in last Parliament, existed on a majority of one
for two sessions.
EXPLAINED.
SMALL BOY: “ Dad , why's Mr. Reid always got
a dog with him? ”
DAD (taken unawares): “For Protection, my
son.”
“ Revenue proper : Centennial Park land
sales, £4576,” says Reformer Carruthers’ revenue
statement—the statement on which he bases the
yarn that he has a surplus of £187,173. These
Centennial Park lands were actually bought with
borrowed money, and the loan is still as good as
new ! And yet it’s “ revenue proper.”
There is a Bill before the Federal Parlia-
ment to exempt from service on jurifis various
gublic officials, beginning with the Governor-
eneral and ending with the Commonwealth
public service clerks. From this, it would appear
that, until the Bill becomes an Act. Lord North-
cote or Chief Justice Griffith is liable to be called
upon to attend at the Coroner’s Court and “ sit on
the body.”
Last week a very violent letter, signed
“Rupert Clarke,” appeared in S. M. Herald,
denouncing the “enormous freight concessions”
made to the Eskbank Ironworks (Lithgow,
N.S.W.). Yet even after all these “enormous
freight concessions” the Eskbank concern paid
higher rates than the N.S.W. farmer pays
for the carriage of his produce. And with all this
no one writes to the Herald denouncing the
farmer as a parasite who lives on the community ;
instead, he looms up as the strong, manly, inde-
pendent backbone of the country. Truly it is a
crime to be a manufacturer in Freetrade-sodden
N.S.W,
If the coming Labor conference doesn’t
absolutely plump for Protection as an essential
plank of the Federal Labor policy, it is more than
probable that a fierce battle will rage over the
question as to “why not?” Of S.A.’s six selected
delegates, five are Protectionists. Victoria’s will
certainly be all of a like fiscal faith. Queensland’s
ditto, W.A.’s two-thirds likewise, and at least
one-third of N.S.W.’s probable delegates will be
the same. Seeing which, if the Protectionists will
but fire the question at the conference, and then
keep a good fierce draught going, it’s as certain
as anything can be before the event that the ques-
tion will emerge in a red-hot affirmative. When
the Labor party, as a party, says it has no fiscal
beliefs, it only means that it hasn t any on some
things. Writing to the secretary of Ballina,
(N.S.W.) Labor League on Friday last, Leader
Watson stated that the party, as a party, “had
determined to secure an extension of the sugar
bonus.” Thus the Labor party, as a party, has
a fiscal belief on some things.
Sydney Telegraph is deliriously angry
over Leak in’s upsetting of the coalition cart. It
speaks of his “ fratricidal conspiracy, ” of his
“ confidence trick,” and of his “false part,” and
of his “unworthy political trickery.” A year or
two ago Dealcin was to the Telegraph
something close up to a murderer and a
drowner of harmless nigger sailors —the sailors
who didn’t even get wet except with spray.
Yesterweek he was a high-minded patriot.
To-day he is a devil. But Leakin’s attitude has
been, ever since Reid announced his anti-Socialism
campaign, candid enough. He refused to join
that campaign, though Reid made it the pivot of
his policy ; that was a straight enough assurance
that the coalition, so far as he was concerned, was
“off.” Reid didn’t take it in that light because
it didn’t suit his purpose to do so, clinging des-
perately, as he did, to the hope that Deakin might
be again bamboozled or threatened into com-
plaisance. But it was just as apparent, three
months ago, that Deakin had broken with Reid
as it is now.
The attitude of the in-
habitants of the Flyspeck State
towards the White Australia
question is an amusing
mystery. They have
had no experience
whatever of black
labor, and, so far as
their own apple-
orchard is con-
cerned, the mat-
ter is of no im-
portance to them.
Farm-laborers on
that little island al-
ready work double
the hours for half
the wages paid for
similar work on
the mainland, and
the nigger is not
yet discovered who
will pull his fore-
lock more humbly
and respectfully to
his boss than the
Tasmanian native
who follows the
plough - tail from
dawn till dusk for
10s. per week.
Even the shearer
—the bellicose
brigand whom
the mainland
squatter is sup-
posed to keep off
with difficulty by
means of an axe
—is, in Tassy, a
subdued serf who
handles his mas-
ter’s sheep re-
spectfully at 10s.
per hundred, and
never grumbles
at the tucker.
Yet three-fourths
of the “ni c e
people” in Van
liobson Land
grow quite indig-
nant at the idea of keeping out
the poor dear blacks and the
humble Chinkies.
Thus Yic. Premier Bent
There is no place in the known world—for climate, soil,
men, and women —to touch this community.
Well the soil Bent leaves in the hands of the
Chirnsides, Clarkes, and co.; the men he bellows at
till he drives them away ; to the women he refuses
the justice of the suffrage ; and he 11 probably
spoil the climate if he leaves that much longer in
the hands of the present crowd of huge laqd-
sharks.
“T.”: Supposing Deakin were to be
Premier again with the Labor party—the same
fiscal-sinking .party—for his chief support, Aus-
tralia would' be in this weird position : It would
be governed by a party of. say, 42, of whom about
23 would disclaim all responsibility as regards the
biggest issue in Australian politics, ihe lJ or so
who accepted responsibility wouldn t be numerous
enough to do anything. As the shortest way out,
I suggest that the Protectionist party should re-
fuse to take office unless it is assured of cordial
support from the Labor party m a High l rotec-
tion policy. If Watson takes office the price of
the Df i kin-Isaacs party s support should be the
adopt.on by Watson and Co. of a High I rotection
policy. If Reid gets office again the Protection-
ists should join Watson in throwing him out, and
then resume the old attitude. Then the Labor
party must either adopt Protection (which is easy)
or join Reid (which is impossible). In short, the
Protectionist party should offer cordial support in
return for concessions, and should put, its High
Tariff down with a crash and say: “ I hat s the
concession.” __
HIS NEW PUP -THE SOCIALISTIC RED HERRING
It is now stated that N.S.W. Premier
Carruthers has carefully selected Judge Heydcm,
the most bitter and uncompromising Tory on the
State bench, to preside over the Arbitration
Court. The new President is a man who regards
the Arbitration law as a huge and unmitigated
evil, and however hard he tries to attain absolute
fairness he will be in the position of a violent
Orangeman trying to take an absolutely unbiassed
view°of the Pope’s character, or an importer
endeavoring to lay aside all prejudices m con-
sidering a Protectionist tariff. And it is commonly
supposed that these were just the reasons why
Premier Carruthers reckoned Judge Heydon the
man for the position.
Curiously enough, in the published pro-
gramme of measures for the new Federal session—
the programme which was abandoned after Allied
Deakin’s Ballarat speech—there wasn’t a mention
of the Anti-Socialist Bill, or the Bill for- Dis-
couraging Socialism, •or the Bill to Repeal the
Socialistic Errors of the Past. This world is full
of disappointments. For instance, the obscure
Wilks has held his seat all along on his opposition
to Roman Catholicism, and he hasn’t .introduced
one Bill or one motion-: to do anything to make
Rome less rampant than it was before. Can it fie
that anti-Socialism and anti-Catholicism are only
the devices of dull, empty men, who have no con-
structive ability, and have to live in a political
sense by being “ agin’ something easy
Already the beneficial results of the Butter
Commission are being felt. Butter freights
to London are now down to three
eighths of a penny per lb., and the
loss of the trade by the mail companies
has set them “cutting” rabbit freights.
Whereas 70s. to 80s. per ton was
charged two years ago, and 40s. to
60s. last season, the Oroya took oOOU
crates from Melbourne last week at
20s. per ton, equal to about lid. per
crate. But the fruit business is still
where it was, last season’s figures
being from 655. to 775. 6d. per ton from
Melbourne to London —yet both fruit
and butter keep better than rabbits.
Of course, the 20s. for rabbits is only
a “cut’ ; as soon as the mail com-
panies and the lines going round the
Cape come to an understanding,
bunny freights will go to about the
same old figure, unless the Common-
wealth takes a hand or Bent builds a
few of what he calls “blooming ships.
Will some Freetrader with a
logical habit of mind, say Fowler or
Clemons, explain how it oomes. that
he and his like persistently bellow
to the effect that a tariff creates
trusts, rings, combines. &c., yet want
the Commonwealth tariff kept at the
lowest possible figure in the interests
and for the direct advantage of that
mercenary, soulless combine, the k tan-
dard Oil Trust, which is identical with
the Harvester Combine? Is it only
the possible Australian trust that must be
squelched, while the actual foreign trust must be
aided by every underhand device possible .
Joseph Cook, has been holding
forth at Albury (N.S.W.) about how the Labor
party’s Socialism means Destitution with a stu-
pendous “D,” and Degradation with a D i 50ft
high. Joseph Cook was himself about the most
aggressive member of the N.S.W. Labor party
in Its early Socialistic days, till Reid offered him a
portfolio. Then he sold himself and his principles
for office—sold himself openly and publicly, like a
cow in a paddock, or a horse in a sale-yard—and
got his price. As a Minister he rs commonly re-
puted to have been an economical man who lived
on the perfume of an oil-rag until he saved enough
to be independent. And now there isn t a build-
in"- in Sydney large enough to hold the D
with which Joseph Cook defines the Depadation
that arises from his old faith—the faith that he
sold.
Lament from Sydney Evening News
(28/6/’O5) ,
sai( i on good authority that, even among the edu-
cated, and the generally well-informed on the continent
of Europe, ignorance respecting all things Australian •
nothing' less than astonishing, -lust at present, however,
there appears to exist a vague impression abroad that the
Government of the country is so anxious to keep P eo
f fLqf oil foreigners, without exception, aie
Z Wht of entry '“ Abb that, should attempted
evasion of the law be detected, heavy penalties are in-
flicted. . ,
Will the News kind'y mention what other im-
pression people could'get after reading its articles,
and those of the Australian Freetrade and Tory
press in general, for the last three or four years ;
E after listening to the lies of the Australian
Stinking Fish party as its representatives wando*
over the earth ? For instance, almost every lory
paper in Australia raged in.loud wild leading
articles over the Six Hatters lie and the 1 etnana
lie Did one of them devote even a single leader
to the subject when it was proved tha * J h ® f Bt gJ
about the drunkenness and incapacity ot the
Orient Co.’s white English stokers was a disgrace-
ful slander backed up by the manufacture of false
evidence? '
Yic. Assembly has been formally notified
of Mr. Outtrim’s intention to introduce a Bill to
prohibit the use of tobacco, cigars, and _ cigarettes-
by children. An Anti-Juvenile Smoking Act is
widely called for; moreover, it promises good
sport. Every good citizen, male or female, will
perceive in every smoking street urchin a reflec-
tion of his or her child, and will grab the little
sinner by the collar, and drag him to the nearest
policeman, or smite him on the “ior” and steal
his cigarettes. Then will the infant Jim battle
hard for his besetting sin, and the King’s High-
way will be enlivened by active hostilities.
Recently five questions were asked in
N.S.W. Assembly about the height of the foot-
boards in the Ocean-street (Sydney) trams. Yet,
for a while past, Premier Carruthers has been
telling a wild tale in the press to the effect that,
having paid off about £320,000 of the public debt
out of- revenue, he has reduced the debt this de-
spite the fact that he has borrowed another
£2,500,000. This seems a matter calling for some
explanation, but not one question has been asked.
The same Assembly appointed a Select Committee
in 1901 to inquire into the suspension of Roberts,
bookbinder in the Registrar-General’s Depart-
ment ; and another Committee in 1902 ; and it is
now invited to appoint a third Committee in 1905.
Yet it hasn’t appointed one Committee to find
out why about £1,000,000 a year, raised by the
sale of the public estate, is used as revenue, though
this sort of fraud has been going on for half a cen-
tury or more.
ALL THAT IS LEFT OF THEM.
Lyne, the other day, pointed out that
Socialistic enterprises have not destroyed indivi-
dual effort; and Sydney Telegraph tells him
that “he would find it difficult to name those
enterprises ”
If he refers to the railways and tramways, we must
remember that the railways largely wiped the teamster
off the country roads, and that the tramways wiped out
the Sydney omnibuses.
The sins of Socialism are mounting up ; the dis-
appearance of the bullock-dray and Mr. Randal
Carey's ’bus-horse is now added to its other
abominations. Still, a party that reckons upon
winning behind a bullock and a bus-horse_—even.a
Randal Carey ’bus-horse—does seem as though it
might get rather badly left in 1905.
♦
In connection with Alfred’s triumph it is
noticeable that whereas he is the possessor of the
D.C.L. degree the unhappy George must have
neglected to qualify at the fount of D.C.L.
wisdom. A definite whisky like D.C.L. inspires
a definite policy—a good one, of course; while
the man who, like G.R. seeks brain sustenance in
lollies is bound to collapse miserably, on the
slightest provocation.*
People living in the country should drop a line to Mick
Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney, and ask for a supply of
Sunol Tobacco. Sunol is made up in air-tight packets,
and is far and away the most delicious smoke ever put
upon the Australian market. Quality always tells, and
the quality of Sunol is easily first.
If music charms the soul of the man in the
Backblox until he dreams gorgeous dreams of Paradise,
that desirable state of illusion is supplied at the most
moderate cost by A'lan and Co., of Melbourne, per means
of their Crackajack mouth organs, costing from Is. to
3s As the above firm are an institution in Melbourne for
supplying the best of music, the' virtues of the Cracka-
jack are beyond suspicion. By the way, which of Shake-
speare’s Characters was it who said to the Crackajack
artist of the period—“ If music be the food of love
play on ”-?* ,


wa
THE “COMMERCE”
Boot for Men.
In Fine Black Calf, 16 6
In Tan Willow Calf, 17/6
OR
POST FREE
ANYWHERE
Black
Tan -
17 6
18/6
We do ;
—price
Elegant in Shape.
Full of Hard Wear.
act pretend to sell Boots at unwearable prices. Quality is our first consideration
comes second only ; and we can confidently assert that the Boots we quote
here are cheaper in the long run than any other boot on the market.
Built for
Gentlemen engaged *”
Banks, Offices, Shops, &c.
TRY A PAIR.
The Callaghan Style-Book
Contains over 50 illustrations and full descriptions of nearly 300 different kinds
of Boots, Shoes, Slippers, &c. We post Free on application.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St.
SYDNEY.
Hydatids on the Liver,
Another Victory for
VITADATIO
Campaspe, Vic.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in giving: niv testimony
to the good quality and curing power of Webber’s Vita-
datio. Some two years ago I was taken ill ; one doctor
said it was whooping cough. I was in bed for over a
month, and go£ weaker and weaker, until I went to
another doctor, who said it was hydatids on the liver.
The doctors ordered me to go under an operation, but I
did not care to for fear of chloroform, and on the next
day, when my mother was reading the paper, she came
across a testimonial from a person who had been cured of
a similiar trouble to my own with Vitadatio, so I said I
would try some myself. I sent for a few bottles at once,
and commenced taking it, and I never felt better than I
am to-day, and do honestly believe that I would have
been dead long ago had I not resorted to Vitadatio. I
have taken ten bottles in all. lam increasing in weight
every month, and feel it a pleasure to be alive. I was
waiting to see my cure was lasting before sending you a
testimonial, and will be pleased to give information to
anyone at any time. You may publish this as you think
fit.
Yours truly,
(Signed) ISABEL M. WASON,
Campaspe.
For further particulars.,
S. A. PALM Eli,
Head Office: 43!) Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Establish hd 1579.)
Hkad Office — HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia. . '
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Missing Friends.
QUEENSLAND.
NEXT-OF-KIN.
rpHE Persons claiming to be Next-of-Kin, according to
the Statutes for the distribution of the Estates of
Intestates, of MARGARET HURFORD, late of Brisbane,
Queensland, in the Commonwealth of Australia, a native
of Glasgow, Scotland, living at the time of her death, on
the thirteenth day of June, 1904, or to be the legal
personal representative of such of the said Next-of-Kin as
are now dead, are requested to send particulars of their
claims to the Curator of Intestate Estates in Brisbane, in
the State of Queensland, not later than the first day of
January, 1906.
Dated this ninth day of December, A.D., 1904.
CURATOR OF INTESTATE ESTATES,
Brisbane, Queensland.
RANSOM
Qr)
(S STOPPING
V-
Per Bottle
ALL CHEMISTS
& STORES I
DECAYED
Gives
InslahT relief'
from pairv
killstfie nerVe
Fills up tfie
Cavity and
are
again useful.
Toolifache Cured
Post free from the Sole Proprietors.
Australian Drug C?L t ° Sydney.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
n
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
) Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
2SI GlcorgeSc.
(ovp. Hunter St.)
' and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the Liquor Habit and Iwrtriaey (in any form) Positively
and Rapidly Cured by the twenty years world-renowned
GOLDEN SPECIFIC
prepared according to the furmnla of Dr. Haines.
It can he given in a cop of coffee or tea, or in fond, either with
or without the knowledge of the patient. It speedily causes
a decided distaste for strong drink. It is absolutely harm-
less. -v d wi 1 effect a permanent cure, whether the patient 'sa
moderate drinker or an alcoholic wreck. It never fails
Thousands prove It. It operates so quickly and w tb such
ceita nty that the patient undergoes no inconvei :•,» >e.and
ere he is aware, his complete reform is effec ed. Th* Colden
Specific supplies the place of the accustomed liquor. and
prevents the absolute physical and moral prostration which so
frequently follows a sudden breaking off from the use of
stimulating drinks. Write for Book, sent with full particulars
and testimonials free byrrturn.
The Union Mfg. Sc Agency Go.,
359 & 361 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
A Policy for the
Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d. ; POSTED, Bd.
PRESERVATIVE
PAIN T
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER PAINTS.
IN THE WINTER
when Heaven’s flood-gates are opened,
and all the earth is wet and cold,
when roofs leak, and gutters let in the
rain, when woodwork rots, and even
brick walls let the damp through ; in the
midst
OF OUR DISCONTENT
let us remember that an effective and
permanent cure for all these ills is to be
found in P. & B. Paints—Paints that
are absolutely waterproof, and protect
all material from the evil effects of
damp.
“If it is not seemly, do it not ; if it is not true, speak it not.”—Marcus Aureliu:.
Agents: W. S. FRIEND & CO., Sydney.
JAMES W JACK, Wellington, N.Z. JOHN BURNS&CO., LTD., Auckland,N.Z-
NORMAN & CO., Adelaide, S.A. WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A.
E T HARRIS, Townsville, Q. G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z. HEDLEY SUTTON, Launceston, Tas.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melbourne, Yic.
THOMSON. BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Aust. Rep.
the PARAFFINE PAINT CO., 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
Where the Western Drovers Go. &
(With apologies to “ Banjo” Paterson.) ™
‘ In my ivild erratic fancy
Visions come to me of Clancy.’’
“BANJO
The mailman stopped for Supper
With us at Olanc.v’s camp ;
Dead gidya we was burnin’—
We didn’t need no lamp.
There was some of us got papers ;
The Boss he got new boots ;
One chap got notes from FINNEY’S
About their BIG BLOCK SUITS.
Before he’d got half through them,
“Just hark to this !” he says,
And takes and reads them to ns,
By that dead gidya’s blaze.
“ If you live ’way off in Brisbane
And a new suit you need,
In indigo-dyed serge,
Or in all-wool fancy tweed,
“ Will you drop a line to FINNEY’S
For patterns to be sent,
With inch-tape and directions
For your self-measurement ?
“ Then if you should send an order,
We know you’ll wear with pride
Your SUIT AT FORTY SHILLINGS
That FINNEY’S have supplied.”
Soon us chaps and good old Clancy
In Town turned out most swell,
In our TWO-POUND TOGS from
FINNEY’S—
The BIG BLOCK SUITS they sell.
To obtain the benefit of style and comfort at a minimum outlay, you should wear the “BIG BLOCK”
CLOTHING. This is made specially to vour measurements, in Fox’s Serge (Indigo Dye), and in High-
class Fancy Tweeds. Sj£3r* The Price is 40 - per Suit to Measure.
The ‘ BIG BLOCK ” SUITS hang gracefully, fit perfectly, wear satisfactorily, YOU CAN’T BEAT
and are the Best Value in Made-to-Measure Clothing offering in Australia to day. FINNEY’S.
Send for Patterns and Sf.lf-Measorkment Forms. They will be sent you, POST FREE, on receipt of request.
Finney, Isles & Co., Limited, The Big Block, BRISBANE.
<|eST?T7B2
PHOENIX
Assurance Company of London
Yssuranees effected on Buildings and Contents; also on WoOLSHEDS, HOMESTEADS, and
other Station Properties, at LOWEST RATES.
NOTE.—Losses Arising from Bush Fires, Lightning, and
Explosion of Coal Gas are covered by this Company.
Annual Income, £1,500,000. Reserve Fund and Security, £4,000,000.
Has issued the LARGEST FIRE POLICY ever written, viz., for J 83,474,030;
Premium, JE33,821.
tSB" Cash. Bonus of 10 per cent, allowed off all Premiums.
TI7 PTTT ST,, SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers).
WILLIAM N, FARMER,
Manamr.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
la Bulk and Bobble are universally acknowledged
I'O DTHiJr-Y COJMCI»UXITXON.
WINES *• B Z ,ids °* * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, ka.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Mr J. KING Swan s St., North Freemantle, W. Australia,
HAS BEEN CURED
OF A SCROTAL
Mr. J. KING
of 20 years’ standing without operation, and has dis-
carded his truss. He had suffered not only from his rupture,
but also from the effects of ill-fitting spring trusses, which caused
more pain than the rupture. He had given up all hopes of a cure
until he heard of the Rice method. He tried it and it cured him.
Thousands of men, women and children have been cured by this
method without pain, danger or operation. Among them are
Chas. Pictner. Mossman, via Port Douglas, Queensland; Mrs.
P. Medley, 331, Swan Street, Richmond, Melbourne L. Exton
(child), 2, Harold Street, Newtown, near iSydney, N.S.W.; and
J. Westhead, River Darling, Pooucaria, N.S.W. Your rupture
cannot be worse than some I have cured. You owe it to vourself to
at least investigate caretully this method of cure. BEWARE of
any person or persons claiming to be or to have been at anv time
connected with me in business in fin} way. Such statements are
absolutely fraudulent and devoid of all foundation. BEWARE
of all imitations of my method. The genuine Rice method can he
obtained from my London office only. I will send you a booh
giving a complete description of rupture and its cure, and telling
why the Rice method has succeeded in so many thousands o.
cases, if you will write for it. Do not be misled by worthless
guarantees, but write for mv world-wide-known and tested
method. Write to-day to W. S. RICE, Rupture Specialist
(Dept. 2320), 8 & 9, Stonecutter Street, London, E.C.
M
ARE YOU BALD?
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, I will guarantee that
CAFILIaA HAIK TONIC will make that “down” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capilla. 2/6 a bottle;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. 0.
Richards, Inventor, IG4 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin-Screw Steamer.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
'—THIS—-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. O. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,461- assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Rational gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,213 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 42,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. u
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,539
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,812
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 64.00 C
£697,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital _ .. £2,000,000
The gankof |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, I'hilp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £1700,000
Capital Paid-up ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 £350.000
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,070,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,070,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq. A. H. K. Maxwell, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNF-Y.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ;
Hon. H S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughouc the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
UNITED
THE
INS URANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Renta also assured.
Marine Risks..
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
THE LAST OF SIX
Frice 6d. Post Fbee.
Shipping.
KT. 13. L.
(NORD-DKUTSOHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*FRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. Bth JULY.
*WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. sth AUGUST.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 2nd SEPTEMBER.
*Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Til Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOIjK AGENTS.
Tht lU»uU.
CRAIG &. AITKEiM, N.S.W. Barber’s Supplj
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYO^aY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
V
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEYIC, to Sail on or about
Bth JULY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC,
and AFRIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalfjety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SALAMIS
DAMASCUS
MILTIADES
A. Douglas
R. McKilliam
T. F. Spalding
Noon, July 8
Noon, July 29
Noon, Aug. 19
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
QCE A.IVIC S3.S. Co. A.. and. A. X.IKTE,
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SONOMA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, JULY 10.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
iMT* CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., rianaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS. SYDNEY.
THROUGH
- : PICTURESQUE
= “ ISLANDS ,
To Singapore, via the Dutch East Indies ! The sister ships
Airlie and Guthrie (2338 tons) leave Sydney alternately every
month on regular cruises through these tropical seas. These
steamers are fitted with the latest electrical and cold storage
conveniences, thus ensuring tourists the utmost comfort
throughout the tour. The round trip occupies 52 days, and
costs £4O. For full information of the above, or shorter trips,
call or write to —
BURNS, PHILP & GO., LTD., SYDNEY
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. ——
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
$
<s>
•aaiJKxioasia
81118
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress U ury.
uxr.s.-w.
lUont de pete DJn|.Co.,|;td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Piiilp cSt Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessof, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'FariiANK ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Berth, A. VV.
Parquiiar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. i. 90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND and UNDIVIDED
PROFITS (used in Company’s business) £15,122 8 1
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; lion. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manage)
4 POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
r \ Price, Gd. ; Posted, 8d
CAMADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
EXCURSION to CANADA -
An Ocean Trip of 23 Days over the
Smoothest of Seas. The numerous
Ports of Call afford an opportunity
of visiting the Islands of Fiji,
Fanning and Honolulu, Hawaii.
THE RAII,WAY JOURNEY IN CANADA IS OYER
FOUR GREAT RANGES OF MOUNTAINS—THE
FINEST SCENERY' IN THE WORLD.
THE TICKET INCLUDES EXPENSES ON
STEAMER AND RAIL AND AT NINE OF
THE FINEST HOTELS IN AMERICA.
ONLY £6O.
The Cheapest Excur-
sion of the Season.
NEW TWIN SCREW STEAMER,
MANUKA,
SAILS
JULY 10.
Next Sailing's AUG. 7, SEPT. 4.
Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), The Three Donkies (a good joke), the Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character-
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Dove
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
SOUTH BRITISH
OFFICES!
SOUTH BRITISH CHAMBERS, 12 Bridge St., Sydney.
GEO. H. MOORE, Manager. CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
One of the
Wealthiest Fire
and Marine Insur-
ance Companies
doing- business in
Australia, and
noted for its
Promptness and
Liberality in
Settlements.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP JO
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Alling'a, Friday, July 7.
S.S. Grantala (from Mel-
bourne), July 19.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY, I
TOWNSVILLE, /
And Ports North to Oairns. I
S.S. Innamincka, July a.
S.S. Wollowra, July 15.
liest and Cheapest Jtoute to <1 ohl fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritime 3
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADIS-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO. BOMBAY,SUEZ, an 1
PORT SAID, will he dispatched MONTH LY as follows : -
PASSENGERS hooked to Bombay, lncua, Cnma
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
wr.inr- n^i^wnTtfa—wriiin ii
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TUB . .
“E. and K.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe ma Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding: Break-Fasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
THE (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comtor</ and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade.
ST. HILDA.
r pHE Largest and oesr-Appointed Board-in''-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, fn mg Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
at
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOL-E’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.


Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne
Telephone No. 10IS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and SS' 0 ' Banquets and
Private Balls ?“ abla Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
HATS,
HAVING specially selected from the world’s best
markets the latest in HARD FELT HATS, I am
able to offer values above the ordinary.
No. 1 is a very stylish up-to-date
line, at 6/6
No. 2 —An equally fashionable
Hat, at S/6, in five different
shapes.
No. 3 —A superior Hat, beauti-
fully finished, Pure Fur, at
10/6, in five of the latest
shapes worn.
No. 4 is a high-class Bowler, showing in ten distinct
shapes, Fashion Fancies, 12/6, quality unsurpassed.
Country Customers post your orders to—
A. H.
RUSSONS, ,7 La7£p.?f*
A NOVEL PRESENT.,,^
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for B/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcmde, Melbourne, Vic.
PROFIT.
Cyphers Incubators.
'T'HESE world-renowned INCUBATORS are worked on
* a new principle. The Regulator is simply perfect,
and cannot get out of order. Being worked on the Hot
Air principle, they have no tanks to leak. They are self-
ventilated, and are fully guaranteed to bring out lively
and healthy chicks and ducklings. Send for circular.
J. & A. BOYES, AGENT8 ’
241=243 Elizabeth-street, flelbourne.
THE
CBOSVENOR HOTEL
SYDNEY.
This most comfortable Family and Com-
mercial Hotel has recently undergone a
thorough renovation, and is noio quite
up-to-date, under the personal supervision
of .. .
MRS. WM. GANNON ,
Proprietress.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM.
“Used your valuable Remedy for
COUGH & COLD
OVER THIRTY YEARS
In my family with great success."
—J. Hall, School-house, E. Markham.
AGENTS,
ELLIOTT BROTHERS & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
THE
DEAF
9EAE
By using the Wilson Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
I tressing head noises write
I for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress—Star Novelty Co..
229-231 Collins-st., Melb.
COOGHRgfi^i
C°to 5
W n mFLUEN2^
99
44
Mouth Organs
The “ Crackajack" Illustrated below presents not only the very latest
but is unquestionably the best and most beautiful toned Mouth Organ mad
The Reeds are of best bell metal alloy, tuned by experts.
are of thoroughly seasoned hardwood, the reid plates are
brass, and every reed tongue is securely riveted. The^-"'"^
Tone is perfected by a system of voicing the
reeds, which makes it rich and
in volume, and the reeds are
subjected to a process of
special tuning, so that
each note through-
out the entire
register is ab-
solutely perfect
The covers are
of heavy brass,
heavily plated and
artistically engrav-
ed. It is impossible \
to fully describe these '
instruments and their
musical qualities.
m
0
IS
0^
m
m
They must be seen
and used to be
appreciated. We
can recommend
them as being
superior to all
other Mouth
Organs in
appearance,
quality and
tone.
3l*
•tv'®’
*0
C*^
p* 1
o***
Posted to ant
ADDRESS IN THE
WORLD roR 4d»
EXTRA.
Made in Four Styles—
No. I Grackalack Professional, 40 Reeds 3/-
No. 2 Grackalack Senior, 20 Reeds * 2/-
No. 3 Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds • 1/6
No. 4 Boss Gracker - • 1/-
ALLAN & CO., 276*278 Collins St., Melbourne.
700 Prizes.
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.
WILL CRIMINALS ESCAPE DETECTION
BY REMARKABLE DISCOVERY OF
ROCHESTER SCIENTIST?
Man Increases Height and Cheats Bertiflon System,
HOW ANYONE MAY GROW TALL
United States Government Official Offers Himself as
Proof that the Height an be Increased.
SEVERAL INCHES MAY EASILY BE ADDED BY
MR. MINQES’ NEW SYSTEH.—HOW
IT IS DONE.
(Special Correspondence.)
Brighton, N.Y., February 4.—At last, after
years of study and endless scientific experiments
for increasing the height of those who are so un-
fortunate as to be short in stature, a Rochester
scientist has solved the problem, and given to the
world a greater gift than Edison’s electric light;
Marconi’s wireless telegraphy; or the Bell tele-
phone ; for what can be more inconvenient or pro-
ductive of more discomfort, than to be short ? The
short man or woman is always at a disad-
vantage; in business, society, on the stage or
rostrum. The great orators, statesmen, gene-
rals, presidents, have rarely been short men.
y/y,
'l
4
l
Mr. K. Leo Minges, a Rochester
Scientist, who Makes Short
People Grow Tall.
Not that the short men are not just as brainy, but
their stature is against them. The great society
leaders are not short women. It seems there is no
longer any excuse for anyone being short, if you will
just follow out Mr. K. Leo Minges’ discovery for
increasing the height. Mr. Minges himself once
knew the disadvantages, the trials and tribulations
that beset the path of the short man. He deter-
mined to grow tall. He tried everything he could
think of, and everything anybody could suggest.
He delved deep into the study of anatomy and
physiology. Finally, when he was almost
ready to give up in despair, he discovered one
of Nature’s marvellous secret laws a law
by which the human body can actually be made
to grow. Mr. Minges tried his new discovery on
himself; it worked like a charm, and to-day Mr.
Minges is 6ft. 2in. tall, and as straight as an arrow.
He next solicited others to try the system, and
behold their height was also increased. He adver-
tised far and wide to get persons extremely short
in stature to try his system and put it to the most
severe tests possible. The results were simply
astounding. The following extract from the New
York Herald shows what can be done: —
“Post Office Inspector Williams says the
Bertillon system of identifying criminals is
a failure; and he offers his own person as
proof of his assertion. Mr. Williams was
measured by the Bertillon system, and went
to work to prove how little use it was in
detecting felons. He was weighed at the time of
his measurement, and tipped the scales close to
one hundred and ninety pounds ; his height was
recorded at five feet two inches. Now his weight
is one hundred and fifty pounds, and he is five feet
four inches in height. The change was brought
about by training he undertook. The ability to
increase his height was the one thing that broke
down the certainty of the Beitillon system. It
was known that a stooping thief might learn to
walk erect; one with cross eyes have his optics
made straight; or a man with birthmarks be freed
from these signs of identity ; but when it was dis-
covered that several inches could be added to the
height of a suspected man, the detectives who
relied upon the Bertillon system were thrown into
confusion.”
Mr. Minges has written a remarkable book,
which fully explains the secrets and the science of
increasing the height. It tells how he himself
grew tall; and how many of his friends have done
so. He sold the copyright of his book to the
Cartilage Company, of Brighton, and this com-
pany proposes to give away 5000 copies simply
for advertising purposes. But there is little
doubt but that the returns which will eventually
come from this substantial kind of advertising
will in the end prove very profitable, as nearly
every short person who sees the book will want
a copy, and there will be a perpetual demand for
it. Until the 5000 copies are exhausted, any
person who wishes to increase his or her height
may get a copy absolutely free, simply by
addressing the Cartilage Company, Dept. 52a,
Brighton, N.Y., U.S.A. Please do not write
through mere idle curiosity, as the book is an
expensive production, and is offered free only to
those who wish to make practical application of
the information contained therein.
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
62-68 Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and 00.,
Brisbane.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St„ Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pan,"
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., it
separated examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded
13T BEWARE OP IMITATIONS. “WI
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAIT.
The London Treatment
FOR THE CURE OF
ALCOHOLISM and NARCOTISM.
THIS is a GENUINE Up-to-date and
PERMANENT CURE for the Excessive
Use of Drugs, and Drink Habit. This is the
latest and most satisfactory treatment that has
ever been placed before the public of Austra-
lasia, and is in no way connected with the
so-called Gold Cure. Pamphlet containing
full particulars will he sent post free.
Address : H. W. BUTTREY,
Home Bush, Masterton, N.Z.
(P.O. Box 121, Masterton, N.Z.)
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years'
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
Onbndge
v £ungTonfc
to be the WORLD'S CTJRE\
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can be obtained from
any Chemist or Store, j
and Saves Many
Lives.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion
Biliousness and
Acidity.
Allays Feverish Conditions due
to the Vaccination and
Teething of Infants.
SOLD THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
UfANTED, in Good Condition, Copies
Bulletin for months of June a:
September, 1900.
A.8.C., c/o Bulletin


Poisoned Blood.
A Station Hand’s Remarkable Cure.
One of the most remarkable cases cured by Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Rills was that of Mr. A. J.
Fahey, “Uardrv Station,” near Hay, who suffered
from indigestion and liver complaint, causing his
blood to become so foul that sores broke out on his
hands. His letter, telling of the wonderful effects
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Rills, is as follows :
“ I have just arrived from the above station after
a stay of several years, and during that time I was
always troubled with indigestion and liver com-
plaint ; also, my hands broke out in very bad sores,
and would not heal up. I was advised by one of
the men to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, as
he has great faith in their use. I did so, and after
using only two bottles I felt myself a new man.
My hands healed up very rapidly, and stopped
itching ; also the indigestion left me entirely, and
my liver regained its usual state ; in fact, the pills
fixed me up all round. I strongly recommend Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills to anyone troubled with
the above complaints.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills go straight to the liver and kidneys, cleansing
the stomach, and eradicating all kinds of poisonous
humors, making the blood rich and red, and the
skin clear and soft. There is nothing more
humiliating to either men or w 4 jmen than to have
their face covered with pimples. A course of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills will effectually and
positively drive these humors out of the system. "
■W'fS
E. RESOH, Brewer by Appointment
to Hie Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The “turn-up” for the G.N. Hurdle Race at
Flemington was silently suggested by The Bulletin last
week when it had nothing to say for or against the
chances of the favorites. Twenty-three horses went out
for Saturday’s race, but only two of them, York and
Oblivion, gave their backers a hopeful five minutes. For
a while the nag from Sydney made tlje bolder show. At
the end of two miles the race was beginning to look
a gift for York, and as soon as the leader’s head was
turned for home, the backer of everything else
knew that “nothing else ought to have been backed.”
On his best performance in S. Australia and his recent
win at a Melbourne suburban meeting, York was a rather
promising 33 to 1 chance. A 5-year-okl chestnut gelding
by Tostig-Conclusion, he was one of the best-looking of
the crowd, and about the best-conditioned, and as for
the mild objection that he was not properly “ seasoned ”
—well, he was the same age as Sarasati, also from S. Aus-
tralia, which won the same race last year with 111 b. less to
carry. The time (smin. 50sec.) was only 2sec. above the
record that old Rawdon put up in 1902. Rawdon also was
a lightweight. The big hurdle race, as they run it nowa-
days, on a course which is getting to be more and more
favorable to fast times, looks a bad spec, for the heavy
weights. Fourteen times within 25 years the winner has
carried less than 10 stone. Another winner had 10 stone
exactly. Within the past 10 years only two of them have
carried more than 10 stone, and the top burden was not
more than 11 stone. The scheme of handicap in these
flying hurdle races needs amendment, that the good per-
formers may be given a more reasonable chance of scor-
ing.
*.* * *
The big Steeplechase next Saturday should
attract a field sufficiently numerous to make the book-
makers happy. The most dangerous animal is Accident,
who runs for*the “ books ’’ every year, and may clear the
way for a rank outsider this time. Leaving that veteran
competitor out of the question, the most taking chances
are Beilis, Syringa (a doubtful starter at time of writing),
Airly, The General, Error, Cardinal, Orlando, Forty
Winks, Player, and Blueskin. Airly or Beilis may abso-
lutely win, or come utterly to grief in the- forthcoming
obstacle race. In a field of ’chasers, Beilis, the son of
Lochiel, looks handsome enough to win easily under a
reasonable burden, and 10.12 will not stop him if lie jumps
up to expectations. Airly has already won a long-dis-
tance steeple at Caulfield, and is said to be equal to the
stiffer course at Flemington. He will be all the better for
his meritorious go in the Hurdle Race last Saturday, and,
at any rate, he is bound to be fairly fit to undertake the
long journey, which is more than one can say for the
lately-arrived Maoriland champion, Up-to-Date.
This and last year’s Y.R.O. G.N. winners —
Sarasati and York —started among very outside division
in their races, were bred by same man (Mr. J. V. Smith),
are by the same sire, Tostig, and came from the Wheat
State. Also, each was ridden by jockey Whelan. At
card call previous evening £lBOO to £OO was taken about
York’s chance, and yet he started at 100 to 3. Trainer
C. Quin bought York as a yearling for 50gs., but the nag
did nothing till recently, when he won hurdle races at
Port Adelaide, Morphettville, and Mentone. Second horse
(Old Chappie) is a cast-off of trainer Barney Donovan,
who prepared the favorite, Oblivion. Said favorite ran
seventh.
* * * *
NoN.S.W. horse has ever won V.R.C. G.N.
Hurdles, and only once has one been placed—Beilis
(second) last vear.
* * * *
South Brisbane J.O. races, at Woollongabba,
last week, supplied something that possibly has never
been paralleled the world over. Sowerby, Gamester, and
Diadem finished almost abreast in Club Handicap, but
judge posted Mystery’s number. As Mystery was some-
where at the other end of the field, the crowd ho wled its
wrath, and looked like sweeping the responsible official
out of existence, till one of its number rushed out and
saved slaughter by hoisting Sowerby’s numeral. The
judge accepted the situation calmly, and the bulk of the
punters went round and collected, but several still kicked
hard and insisted Gamester had won.
Maoriland racing authorities are considering the
advisableness of making it compulsory that all owners and
trainers, or whoever is responsible, should, pay a jockey’s
losing fee to a person appointed by the stewards, before
the mannikin weighs out. In case of a win the club is to
deduct the jockey’s fee from the stake, so that he can’t be
“let in” either way. A good idea. It will obviate the
necessity of the unpaid jockey falling back on Ikey Mo.
for the loan of a liver now and again. Once a rider
starts borrowing from Nose, his descent is easy and his
final drop is great.
Next Maoriland racing conference is to be
ijnvited to deal with the mannikin who gets a license to
ride, but doesn’t do so, preferring to punt, or spiel, cr
act as Ikey’s agent in assisting to “ square ” races. Pro-
posed that any jock who hasn’t ridden in 25 events during
the preceding year be refused a license, unless he is
regularly employed by an owner or licensed trainer.
* * * «
There is gloom and disappointment over the
whole continent. The renowned mare Wakeful, which
was recently retired from the turf for domestic purposes,
has declined to dabble in'the birth-rate question. Pro-
bably the wonderful little mare will re-appear on the turf
when it becomes quite certain that she declines family
responsibilities.
“Gun”: Though the horse often badly beats
his owner and backers generally, he doesn’t usually do it
this way : M.L. racing nag Bill Perkins was joyfully sold
for 12gs. two weeks before beginning of recent Dunedin
J.C. meeting, whereat he easily appropriated a race on
the first day, and tote paid £24 14s. Second day the few
who “ chanced it ” because Bill P. was the greatest out-
sider of the field, secured £2O 16s. for every pound ven-
tured ; same afternoon the nag went out again, very
much unfancied, and ran second, beaten in the last few
yards, and paid £3 12s. Doubtful whether any people
immediately concerned in the horse benefited a cent
beyond the prize-money. It was the sort of thing that
only the fatuous punter, always in quest of big dividends,
would be likely to profit by.
* * *
The show at Fitzgeralds’ circus-building last
Saturday night provided an interesting study in human
disappointment. Buttan Singh was to wrestle Clarence
Weber, catch-as-catch-can, for the championship of
Australia, and a large audience including all the
earnest young physical culturists in Melbourne —had
rolled up co witness the humiliation of the colored alien.
The appointed hour of triumph for Australia was
9 o’clock, and the gladiators kept the appointment punc-
tually. A model of big, blonde, manly beauty in the
pride* of youth versus a lithe, copper-colored son of Asia,
aged 41. * Time. The men put out their hands warily for
a minute and 28 seconds. Then came a sudden confusion
of limbs and bodies, and in three seconds the brownie
lay overthrown, cross-buttocked, whilst Weber stood
monarch of the tableau. Amidst the thunders of
joyful comment, the roars of applause, this scribe
could hardly hear the still small voice of conscience
protesting that poor old Buttan, the hero of a
hundred wrestles, deserved some little sympathy under
the circumstances. It seemed hard for the man of 41 to
be chucked about so violently by a lusty Clarence for the
entertainment of an antagonistic multitude. All the
same, Buttan looked none the worse for wear as he
retired to his dressing-room for a “ breather.” In another
10 minutes the joyful crowd was watching for a repetition
of the cross-buttock throw or a “ giant swing,” or any
other striking device whereby Weber would put the
colored person to shame. Alas 1 the second aggressive
movement on Weber’s part was a non-success. He, not
Buttan, fell because he couldn’t help it, and the wily
foreigner, crouching over him as he lay upon the mat,
had choice of moves. The rest of the story is' sad.
Weber undoubtedly is strong enough to resist for
hours the attempts of a smaller man to turn
him over upon his two shoulders, but he had to
attempt to out-general his adversary if he was to
win the match outright. The crowd, now growing eager
for more enthusiasm, exhorted “ Clarry ” to do something,
aiid “ Clarry,” in trying to do it, got done himself. The
fall scored against him was not satisfactory in a pictorial
sense. He seemed to be getting the best of a roll over,
whereas there was a sixteenth portion of a second during
which his shoulders had simultaneously touched the mat.
The conditions of the match were really in the Hindu’s
favor, although they left him at Weber’s mercy as regards
the chuck. Had Weber stipulated for definite “pin”
falls instead of “ flying ” falls his masterful chuck might
not have availed, even though he had supplanted it with
a personal flop upon the body of his foe. But he had
seemingly lost his power of aggression, anyhow. He was
suffering from partial paralysis of confidence when the
third act opened. Pretty soon the men were on the
ground, kneeling, and looking at one another. The
countenance of Weber expressed the subjective character
of the voung; giant. He has no devil, no ginger in his
composition. And on this occasion the thought of two or
three thousand people having assembled to see him assert
his superior strength, and wipe the carpet with the
Pathan, was troubling the young novice, and driving all
other thoughts out of his head. Eventually, the Pathan
won the rubber by a “ fall ” that lasted half as long as a
flash of lightning. Or he bluffed the referee—as some
people said—by leaping high into the air before a decision
was given in his favor. An absurdly brief “ fall” was
awarded to the dancing dervish, and a great silence fell
upon 99 per cent, of the crowd, whilst a brother Hindu
hoisted the frolicsome winner and bore him away.
The Australian was not convincingly beaten, but he
had fallen short of expectation. Incidentally, he had ex-
posed the humbug of all those exhibition wrestling
matches at Rickards’, in which the underneath man used
to suddenly change places with the other fellow. A
match for money means that the man who seeks safety
by lying on his stummick is not at all likely to, recover
from his degradation.
* * * *
The most notable difference between white
wrestler Weber and black Buttan Singh is in their chest
expansions. Weber expands from 45 to 51£in., whereas the
Hindu goes only 39 to 42. Buttan’s forearm compares
favorably with that of the taller and heavier man, whilst
his waist is actually thicker, but his poor, brown .calf goes
4in. less than Weber’s.
A Melb. Argus report of the Weber-Buttan
Singh wrestling match libelled the assembled multitude by
saying “the spectators rushed the ring, hooting.” A
dozen or two.young men may have sauntered towards the
platform, and half-a-dozen of them may have groaned
over the loss of their little wagers, but the “spectators,”
to give the word its full meaning, merely gathered up
their hats and walked silently away, just as they walk
from an Australia v. England cricket match, when the
hoped-for has not happened.
Said that a considerable sum of money, which
changed hands over the Weber-Buttan Singh wrestling
match, went into the pocket of “ Jack” Wren, who runs
a tote shop, by the grace of Melbourne’s police authori-
ties. Wren had been informed that Weber, as the
stronger, but less experienced, man, had made a mistake
in agreeing to wrestle for “ flying ” falls instead of “ pin ”
falls.
* * * •»
Altogether Saturday was N.S.W.’s day out.
At Epping (Syd.) N.S.W. downed Maoriland Soccer team
by two to nil ; and at Brisbane the Cornstalks beat the
Bananalanders very thoroughly by 15 to 3 at the Rugby
game.
The return N.S.W.-Queensland match was won
by aggressive play. The Cornstalks took the offensive
from the first, and the Bananalanders failed to make
counter attacks of any particular brilliancy or sustained
effort, and contented themselves with a stubborn defen-
sive game. So the Cornstalks kept coming again, carrying
the ball down the field at the toe till within striking distance
and then letting the backs loose. Over and over again the
Queenslanders blocked them, but the few occasions when
they didn’t, together with a penalty goal, accounted for
the Cornstalk win.
The N.S.W.-Maoriland “ Soccer ” match was a
great struggle, and one of the fastest games writer ever
saw, in spite of the fact that the ground was so slippery
as to make dribbling difficult and kicking erratic. Both
sides played up well, and the goal-keeping on either side
was like St. Peter keeping the gate of Paradise. The
Cornstalks had slightly better luck, or just a wee bit
better combination, or something, and won by 2 to nil.
Under Australian rules the Y.M.O. A. probably
touched high water line when, on Saturday, it obliterated
West Sydney by 135 to 9 points. The curious thing about
this match was that, just a year ag-o, Y.M.O. A. held the
painful position now occupied by YVest Sydney. As a
match it was a dreary exhibition of one well-organised,
perfectly-disciplined team running over a straggling-
crowd; and there was no joy in it. Newtown’s victory
over Paddington was also a one-sided business, but
Paddington did manage to keep its tail slightly towards
the horizontal, and snatched 23 points while the vic-
torious Newtown accumulated 75. At Rushcutters Bay
Sydney could only get IS points ahead of North Sydney,
the fig-ures being 53 and 40. The real struggle of the
day was between" East Sydney and Balmain, George Reid’s
electorate winning by one point—26 to 25. There is some
sort of weird connection between this event and the
majority that George lost the run of last week, 'out it s
too hard to follow.
* f- ir *
Anything may happen at football, and even at
horse-racing the beast that carries the money wins some-
times. Saturday week South Sydney fell upon Glebe
and rolled it in the dirt. Last Saturday South Sydney
itself went down before the University, which Glebe had
previously defeated in a wholesale fashion. It was not a
crushing defeat, but 8 to 3 was decisive enough to prove
that the victory was more than an accident. The defeat
of North Sydney by Western Suburbs (eight points to nil)
was very startling. Sydney downed Balmain by 5 to nil,
and Glebe had the bad luck to only effect a draw with
Newtown. Had Glebe had its usual luck and beaten
Newtown it would have regained its position at the head
of the competition list. It now ranks with the beaten
South Sydney (14 points each). Western Suburbs is just
behind with 13 ; Newtown follows with 12 ; and University
and Sydney are far down with 11.
The wiser of Melbourne’s amusement seekers—
including Waxcellency Madden, gaud Mayor Plesaunce
(new spelling), and little Sammy Gillotte (ditto) —shied
off the follies of Flemington on Saturday, and toddled
down to Oollingwood football ground, where the Magpies
were expected to put through the hitherto undefeated
Fitzroy in style. A close-packed 20,000 heaved and yelled
while the expected transpired, but a strong wind spoiled
all chance of good play. Both teams seemed to be afraid
of giving the other a chance to get its system
into work, and crowded on the ball, and mulled
much, spoiling the game as a spectacle. ’Wood started
early and steadily forged ahead. The finish saw ’Wood
5 goals 11 behinds to ’Roy’s 3 goals 1 behind. These two
clubs are now level with one defeat each, Carlton being
third with three defeats, the rest nowheie. In the
Association the hitherto undefeated West Melbourne —
the babies of the Association—went down to their old
Mentors, North Melbourne, by 22 points to 26, but they
are still a game ahead of North, Ports and Williamstown,
so they feel fairly comfortable. No umpires have been
assaulted of late, nor has any Ikey been alleged to have
half the players in his bag.
* » * »
Auckland and Hawkes Bay Rugby Unions are
going to put up a stern fight against the Maoriland
Union action in blindly following the English ruling that
an injured player cannot be replaced. And quite right
too. To refuse to allow replacements is a direct bribe to
the team that is losing to lay the other fellows right out,
and by breaking one or two of the other side’s be- t men
to equalise matters.
* * * *
The fact that the Maoriland Rugby footballers
will not arrive till Friday, or perhaps not till early on the
Saturday on which they have to don the guernsey against
N.S.W., shows shockingly bad management. The Aus-
tralian tour seems to be only a grasp for boodle, irrespec-
tive of players or public. Under the conditions, the
’bailers can hardly be expected to show respectable form,
and apparently the people who sent them don’t care
whether they do or not.
* * * «
Possible that the injury received by N.S.W.
Rugby captain Wickham, in the inter-State match at
Brisbane (Q.), last week, will cause his definite retirement
from football. Prior to getting maimed, Wickham had
captained the N.S.W. team at Brisbane in eight successive
matches, and, by kicking alone, had piled up heaps of
points. His compulsory retirement will be a great loss.
The Australian team’s score of 527 against
Gloucestershire, declared at nine wickets, fell short
of the performance of the ’O2 team against VV. G. Grace’s
men, when the Australians heaped up 545 for five wickets.
A coincidence was that Trumper and Duff, who put up 134
for the first wicket three years ago, nearly repeated the
feat this time, the score being 132 when Duff was caught
at the wicket. Trumper’s first hundred of the tour was
made this match.
* * * »
Noble reached his 1000 runs in the Warwick-
shire match, easily beating Armstrong, who had started
off at a great rate in the first half-dozen matches of the
tour. Still, Armstrong, with four innings less and aided
by a couple of not-outs, is 10 runs ahead in averages. The
batting figures of Gregory, Gehrs, M’Leod and a couple of
others are more despairful than ever.
* * * *
Frank Iredale throws some light on the disabili-
ties an Australian XT. 1 ibors under. On many days it
was almost impossible to see in the streets up to 11 in the
morning ; factories and shops were illuminated by gas and
electricity all day, and the air was filled with smoke and
dust and soot. The match against Yorkshire commenced
ip cold, gloomy weather, with the haze so thick that the
stumps were only occasionally visible from the press-box,
and during the frequent adjournments the Australians
huddled and crouched over the fire in the dressing-room.
And they call it sport!
A *
The approach of midsummer in England may
bring about an improvement in the form of the Australian
cricketers by giving them a slight opportunity to play
under conditions more akin to what they have been
accustomed to. The totals of 380 against Warwickshire
and 527 against Gloucestershire in one week look as
though the kangaroo’s tail was beginning to point again
towards the Pole Star. The score against Gloucester was
very evenly distributed.
Swimmer Kieran’s defeat by Billington, in
English mile supremacy, was nob surprising. With only
10 days to prepare for so stiff a struggle, under adverse
climatic conditions, and in fresh instead of the salt water
he was accustomed to, he had little hope. ■ That Ivieran
lacked thorough training' is evidenced by his leading ov r
half the distance. Dick Cavill had an almost similar ex-
perience, but later on made amends by doing remarkable
things. Billingt in’s time, 24min. 42see., is the best ever
done in England, but it is lmin. 25 l-ssee. slower than
Kieran’s world’s record.
* * * *
London Sportsman states that Towns and Stan-
bury have issued a challenge to all comers for the Double-
Sculling championships of the world; and from another
source it is alleged the Barry Brothers, of England, are
ready to take up the challenge. If terms are signed, tin
event will be rowed on the Frazer River, Canada, when
also a race between Towns or Stanbury and Canadian
Durnan is possible.
* * * *
After all, the Towns-Stanbury sculling cham-
pionship will be rowed over the old course —Rvde Bridge
to Searle’s monument. In the original conditions, the
course was altered—the race to finish at Gladesville ; but
the owners of water frontages near Searle’s monument
have backed down and decided to hand over a share of
the receipts, to the scullers. Both scullers are giving
their supporters much satisfaction in their training opera-
tions ; but the Towns supporters are the more sanguine,
believing that the champion will breakup Stanbury in
the first mile, just as he did Tressider. But Stanbury is
different from Tressider.
* « * *
Sydney City Bowling Club has declared that it
will.not pay the £lO4 per annum demanded by the City
Council as rent for the green in Cook Park. It has also
decided that it will not be ejected by the council, and the
council is making fearsome threats. It is a difficult ques-
tion to decide which view to take in this matter. Cook
Park is a dreadful, ill-lit place, and the grass has been
smothered for years by a dreary waste of impenetrable
clay. By day it is unpleasant; by night it is a horror ; the
sandbag-ger and the plain, ordinary thief who cleans out
the drunk’s pockets have it for their own, and ghastly
caricatures of femininity frowse under the trees. Abso-
lutely the only bright spot in the “park” is the
one that the Bowling Club has spent its money in
beautifying. The grounds are open to the publ.c. Seats
are provided, and all that the club asks (and insists on) is
that the Woolloomooloo pet shall not play up on the green.
The Bulletin doesn’t like the grabbing of the parks ; but
Cook Park, where it is not grabbed, is an unlovely spot,
and if the Council hunts the club out, it certainly ought
to take steps to make the alleged city lung a place where
people can-go in the evenings and breathe twice before
they are murdered.
* * * *
Tempe-Leiehhardt hurling club, which mopped
the floor with Redfern a week ago, was apparently suffer-
ing from a slight attack of swelled head on Saturday, and
held the (pity (Sydney) crowd rather cheaply. Result
was defeat by 7to 5. Both teams played a good defensive
game, and the Tempe-Leichhardt men, when on the
offensive, ; rushed thing's very vigorously. Had they
played with the same caution as they did when they
downed Redfern, they would not have been beaten by
City, which Redfern had previously thwacked quite
soundly.
* * * *
Fact that that arrant deceiver, T.M.S., won
Farewell Handicap at Boulder (W.A.) meeting, Saturday
week, after repeated failures in the same section, was
taken by many betting men as the “ office” that T.M.S.’s
previous owner, “fiduciary agent” Slattery, would
triumph also, and they wagered accordingly, laying 2 to
1 “ on ” in several instances.
* * * *
“ 11. G.”: The most noticeable fact about the
Vic. amateur boxing championship competition, opened
on Saturday evening- in Melbourne, is the lack of con-
dition on the part of the amateurs as compared with the
pros. While even the tenth-raters who fight prelimin-
aries at the halls show no distress, apart from that
caused by punishment, over six or eight rounds, the
average amateur is dead to the world at the end of the
first three minutes. And the most surprising part of it is
that the amateurs are well-fed, well-clothed, decent-
living youngsters fresh from school, and followers of
athletics all the year round, while the member of the
Rats Push who gets into a ring for the prospect of a
“ shower ” generally does no work, lives on a diet of beer
and cigarettes, and doesn’t even take as much exercise in
boxing itself as the amateur. Perhaps the explanation is
that one man is really exerting himself in the ring and the
other only looks as if he were.
« * * *
Frost’s defeat of “Spud” Green at Sydney
Gaiety Athletic Hall on Saturday last was a triumph of
condition. Green threw out some ugly insinuations with
his fist during the first few rounds, and Frost looked
several times as though he was likely to go the way of all
meat. But apparently someone knew something, and the
betting was 2tol in his favor. Then “ Spud ” seemed to
evaporate. He lost his sting, and the devil departed o t
of him, and in the ninth round he waved the pale, anxioi s
towel of surrender.
* * * *
Fennessy, who put up such a whirling, meteoric
scrap with Farley in Melbourne recently, has “ taken on ”
Mr. William Squires, the steam-hammer from Newcastle
way. The upheaval will take place at Melbourne on the
njght of July 10th.
Now that they have been working under
minimum wage legislation for a few years, the
Vic. sweaters, who once wept so loudly about
“restrictive legislation” and the “ hampering of
private enterprise,” are very quiet and appar-
ently quite content. Vie. Factories Inspector
Ord reports that in ’O4 there were 443(5 registered
factories in the State, employing 61,977 persons.
Of these 38,000 were working under Wages Board
rates and regulations, and “there is little trouble
in enforcing the rates fixed.” Only the Mongol
in the laundry and furniture trades defies the law,
and even he would have been brought to heel
by this time but for the House of Landlords,
which so loves the alien that it is willing to
handicap its own fellow white Australians in hi-;
favor.
THE CRICKET CRAZE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(The portion of the daily papers recently devoted to the
prowess of the Monkey is now occupied with accounts of
the score in Hingland.)
There’s a slump in Monkey stocks now, for the cricket
craze is raging—
Aye, the bank-clerk howls in frenzy as he scans the won-
drous score ;
And the barber’s understudy doth descant in terms
engaging—
Aye, he rubs the news and lather in at every suffering
pore !
And the man behind the counter simply reeks with tales
of cricket—
He discourses on Maclaren as he serves the shirts and
socks;
The head boarder at my hash-house moans about the
moistened wicket
Till I wish some fiend would bash him with ten thousand
heavy rocks. •
One gets cricket on the tramcar, in the train, and at the
table—
In the bar and on the boulevard, and across the billiard-
baize ;
Yea, Australia’s been converted to a flannelled-foolish
Babel,
And I’m sick and tired and weary of this stupid cricket
craze !
Was the telegraph invented to relate flow one “ Bo-
sankey ”
Biffed a harmless sphere of compo. to the boundary for
four ?
The inventor’s ghost informs me, with aloud, disgraceful
blanky,
That his wires are desecrated by the silly Hinglish score !
Bne the cables keep on jerking, and they prate of Jones
and Lilley—
They descant upon the prowess of de Trafford and of Fry
Yea, they speak of Gehrs and Trumper till the clamor
drives one silly,
And I seem to see “ SYD. GREGORY ” in placards on the
sky !
A disturbance known as Tyldesley looms dark on our
horizon,
So the daily paper tells me as upon my chop I graze ;
But Ido not care a match-head if he be a bear or bison -
For I’m not infatuated with this precious cricket craze !
I have talked with men of cricket, and they didn’t much
impress me ;
They knew nothing of de Balzac, but were connoisseurs
or beer —
They could tell each brand of whisky by its smell, and
heaven bless me !
They had mouths like huge portmanteaux, stretching
round from ear to ear !
I have always hated people who wear mouths like railway
tunnels —
I believe a three-inch orifice sufficed John Stuart Mill,
But the faces of some cricket fiends look like enormous
funnels.
So I do not worship Noble, and I don’t adore Clem Hill.
One can always gauge a pastime by the folk who
barrack for it,
And upon the cricket hoodlum may no man with plea-
sure gaze,
With his cigarette-stained fingers, and his hat as seer
ne’er wore it—
He’s a splendid sign and symbol of the stupid cricket
craze.
But the Monkey’s stocks are slumping, and the cricket
plague is raging—
Aye, the bank clerk howls in frenzy as he scans the
dreary score,
And the barber’s understudy doth relate in terms
engaging
How the blessed cricket ashes all depend on one match
more; ■ - 1
And the dude behind the counter simply reeks with yarns
of cricket;
He discourses on Bilowell as he serves the shirts and
socks.
The chief donkey at my hash-house brays about the damp
old wicket
Till I wish some fiend would bash him with ten million
heavy rocks!
One gets cricket on the tram-car, in the train, and at the
table —
In the bar, and on the boulevard, and across the billiard-
baize.
Yea, Australia’s been converted to a flannelled-foolish
Babel—
Bah ! I’m sick and tired and weary of this useless cricket
craze 1
Vio.
GRANT HERVEY.


BRITISH OFFICERS
LORD KITCHENER
GEN. SIR E. MARKHAM,
Nazeing Park, Waltham Cross,
LIEUT.-CQL. FRED HOLE,
Babbacombe, Devon,
MAJOR-GEN. ALEX. P. CLAY,
Sherborne, Dorset,
LIEUT. W. M. MACLEOD,
31st D.S.O. Lancers, Mamaluin, Elgin, N. 8.:
wrote that he much enjoyed
smoking Marsumas.
sends order, and writes: —
“ Colonel Chamberlin re-
commended me to smoke
Marsumas.”
writes :—“ I spent 20 years of
my life in India and never
knew it could produce such
good Tobacco as yours.”
“ Marsumas are far superior to
the cigars I have been smok-
ing in India for the past 50
years.”
“ I consider Marsumas most
excellent value, and those I
have smoked so, for every
one has fulfilled all you say
of them in your advertise-
ment, and that is saying a
g-ood deal.”
manufactured AT HfltfflNMfl (Near Congleton), ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES —
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF <fc CON3PANYSYDNEY
The Pen
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER
AND A PEN CARBON BOOK
Makes a complete outfit wit!) which any MAN, tv OMAN or CHTT D can wr.te a letf“r. and at the same
time ma'r.e an exact copy wilViout leaving the slightest sign of copying on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of oraer3, receipts, bank cheques, it leaves no vague,
uncertain mark, but a i racing that is often clearer than the original.
It will save any house or family much money by its indisputable record.
& Je Agents for
Australasia:
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRIoBANB.
Agent for Victoria—ANDßEW SHERAR & CO., 101-103 E!f= bath St., IWe bourne.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“8APOI.IN” I'LOOI! STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
■Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOL.IN” AHJJIIKtM ENAMEI, gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnisliable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush It on.
JAPANESE COLD PAINT (Keady Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical anil sat isfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers■ Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
<r7-r
Against Damp Air, Chills, Colds
and dangers arising therefrom
FOR SAFETY
WEAR
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., <&c.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
BS’Full illustrated Price List Free. '3sk
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO -
-75 King Street, Sydney.
| OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
J- ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ Ki r/r Street Coffee Palace,” ~ms
s : tuated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. IF. Elj LI $
I SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
WILLIAMS’
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
j-3? — Every Bar weighs 17 Iloi est
English Ounces , divided into <> Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICED.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane.
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. , You will never be without it.
Williams
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
IT
mm
ESS?
TeryOldVatted
Liqueur Whisky.
JDistilled&Bottled by
Kilmarnock,Scotland,
E. T. WALSH,
LEADING SYDNEY
__ TAILOR.
NEW SUITINGS.
Best Materials. New Patterns. Expert Cutting. No Factory Work.
SAMPLES AND MEASURE FORMS SENT TO ANY ADDRESS.
The Largest and Best-Appointed Tailoring Establishment in the Commonwealth.
INSPECTION INVITED.
359 GEORGE STREET.
/
ASK FOR
FRANZ JOSEF Laser
PURE, WHOLESOME and INVIGORATING. There is Nothing Better.
“ This stupid Arbitration business ” being
temporarily “off,” N.S. Wales has the blessings
of the strike again. And instead of being glad,
the Sydney papers mention quite severely that
they are using revolvers and stones up at the
Pelaw Main colliery, and that one of the people
who was helping to settle a dispute in the proper
way, and without any beastly interference from
the Arbitration Court, has a fractured skull, and
that trains are running under police escort.
A scrap from the censure debate in the
Federal Parliament: —
Mr. Reid : He, as head of the Government, received from
the Chief Justice a peremptory telegram, demanding three
thinsrs, and those three things had since been done, but
he strongly took the view that under no circumstances
should anyone, not even judges, send peremptory
telegrams to the head of the Government.
Mr. Deakin : Does not that depend on what preceded
the peremptory telegram ?
Mr. Reid: A tele ram in the nature of a demand on the
head of the Government was utterly unwarrantable.
Mr. Deakin: Unless something absolutely unprecedented
preceded.
Mr. Reid did not want to go into details.
No, certainly, Mr. Reid did not want to go into
details for, if what is whispered about is true,
there is enough in those details to give a fresh
blot to the political character of even Gr. H. Reid.
Owing to his ‘ ‘ name as well as his fortune
getting involved in matters over which he had no
control... owing to giving his time to public
business from early morning till past midnight,”
Premier Carrutliers sobbed to the Lands Commis-
sion. “lied retire from active private business
for two years, or longer if he had the misfortune
to remain in office.” Now, everyone knows that
Carrutliers rushed “the misfortune of office” with
full steam on, that he hugs the “misfortune”
with both hands and what legs he can spare for
the purpose, and that he can drop the “misfor-
tune” any moment he wants to. If he elects to
continue hugging the “misfortune” till somebody
stronger drags it from him, that’s his business,
but to bug the “misfortune” and make himself
out a public martyr over a personal advantage he
can forego at any time is snuffle.
W. N. Willis must now be seeing
Hayneses in his sleep. It was John Haynes who
swore a warrant for his arrest. R. S. Haynes, of
Perth (W.A.), appeared for the prosecution in
Albany, and S. J. Haynes appeared for the
defence. And now Willis is proceeding against
Charles Haynes for libel
Griffith and Allen, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne —(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
Mr. W. H. Wood has been elected Chair-
man of Committees in the N.S.W. Assembly--
another illustration of the value in politics of
making yourself objectionable. Wood, a smart
political youngster, was raised to Cabinet rank
most unexpectedly by Bill Lyne. When the
Lyne Cabinet was reconstructed under John See,
Wood was dropped out. Thereupon Wood
dripped boiling oil on his enemies. When he rose
to speak little blue flames darted about the
Chamber, and the sergeant-at-arms stood by
with a bucket of water in case the old building
should combust. Now they have put Wood where
he will have to keep quiet.
Among those who whoop loudest in denun-
ciation of State Socialism at present are many
whose sole cure for land-agency ills is the bringing
of land-agents under State control. Make land-
agents register themselves, and fix their fees, and
hold them tight by State machinery, cry these
enemies of State interference with private enter-
prise. The N.S.W. land-agency system has been
private enterprise pure and simple, and it reached
its present gigantic evil dimensions because the
State did not interfere with it.
Melbourne City Court unearthed a versa-
tile person, t’other day. He was making his
debut before the Law on an imposition and assault
charge, and, being asked his occupation, replied,
proudly, “I am very good at drawing, and am
also a landscape gardener and painter. I can do
tailoring, and am. a good hand at darning socks. ’
T 0...
Australians
who are
Australians.
3T
m
>/»%
U knt’tst,'*-
v < :
ADVANCE! "V* AUSTRALIA
An Australian Rubber Goods
Industry.
We have complete and up-to-date Rubber Mills in
Australia—worth COO—which are quite capable of
supplying the Rubber Goods requirements of this
Continent—keep in constant employment over 800
hands, and spend in Australasia annually
Such a business must benefit the Commonwealth and
3’OU in general. We manufacture ail classes of General
Rubber Goods, including Mining, Engineering,
Gardening and Sporting Requisites, which are
every bit as good as the imported article, and in
many instances better, for “Dunlop Goods” are
freshly made and free from perish, which is incidental
to bringing Rubber Goods over the seas. Our prices
are right—so is the Quality and Workmanship.
The next time you require Rubber Goods, why not support
an Australian Industry by specifying DUNLOP BRAND?
If your Storekeeper will not supply you with the Goods
write to us for Illustrated Price Lists.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUST. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane & Christchurch, N.Z.
Sydney Address :
150 Clarence Street


m
: f. &
m- .t h ‘-
ji> "t$ -,fP '4 : -
«r, 4 \ ~ 1 11
* - < r'V 1 ■
-. Vit/s. ■, <
-
V; : '
> ■ :
SWS
■om
in
g
a ■
<1 v
; v
Si
1,. v ' * 1
1 |■ <
RlA\
‘ ;,• ' f
if
r-ll
■ j
kg ifs wi*
i
Ipk 4 '-' *
m
2> i 7J
Vjj||
■* fe~' ‘
:^ s . .-r* \ ' 5 i
) / JHi ■if I ,
;SJ
I®
&& W *£
2»s?f
■ W-#
\i: PI .r
mfii >V
ill! H A
•’****
Mt? J
v ~. .. v :
v-**
M'/
I i
SCI
r ,:/.r- <■* '
St 4 ! 1 v v
r
m i
fl/ii v
k\
/;
1»:
mj
i mm in
/?
I
rf&ki -'
■ ,=s»
M -
m
#4
J*W:
«
//
99
N
7/
fill
m
m
i i.
ksobb TT
.'.. ..
W 1
/|\
si
;
A
1
:&r
/
•m
-:
fccwM&lk
••
m
UK
■ • «!
fi#
w
&<S
fZ
.
-
>
m
k
m*
m
wm
BUCKLEY
» NUNN
i/r?
MELB.


iiSM
■
I ti
yMM
■; . • >V
m
m
m
m
.
m
mm
'wr9
■, y . ■ • "
v- f '
■ •: ,
. V. ■- -
•<> • '
.. .; .d s .: - ~,. *. '«•-.*** -.. --v .• •-_ <
- -
Ota*
1
■
I
3!
J
If
:f
m
1^:
I
§cf>
m
y
,
m*.
m
m
S.
m.
m
->
\
;•
K
'.V f
■■■
?
«
MSt
Ws
MS*;
%
y ? /\
m
m
3
■ .
■m,
wm>.
*****
m
m
mm
lIS
MODERN ARTISTIC HOUSE
FURNISHINGS AT MODERATE PRICES.
A VILLA FURNISHED FOR £l5O
lllustrations are specially drawn from some of the rooms on view in our
“ Furniture Show Rooms which we have had Furnished to demonstrate the
Complete Furnishing of a Modern Villa. Inspection is respectfully invited, and on
application a special Catalogue, containing all details fully illustrated, will be mailed
to any part of Australia,


A very important hygienic, event was the dis-
covery of a method of converting the essential principle
of milk into a substance which will not ferment or turn
sour. The preparation, under the name of Plasmon,
consists of the milk-a-lbumen, separted from the
fat and the sugar, but retaining the organic
salts, and dried in carbonic acid gas; thus be-
coming capable of practically everlasting preservation.
Plasmon—lor wnich it is claimed that loz. contains as
jpuch nutriment as* lib. of best beef—is sold as a fine,
white, tasteless powder, which may be added with advan-
tage to almost any article of diet.*
IT
DAZZLES THE WORLD.
DR. SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY
FOR HOUGHS, . . Pric*
i.OLDS and .
V/ONSUMPTION, 1,6*3/
CURES WHERE ALL
ELSE FAILS.
Nicole Universal Records
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records will fit
any and every disc talking’ machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPHONES
are the most perfect repro
ducers of sound, with Ball
Bearing' Sound Box.
Two Special Instruments The Colonial’’and
“ The New Standard.”
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE Free on application.
W. G. KING, Sole Agent, 316 George St.,
SYDNEY.
STOMACH
AND
LIVER TROUBLES
THAT HAD LASTED
A LIFETIME
PROMPTLY BANISHED
BY
MOTHER SEIGEL’S
SYRUP.
“From early girlhood I was a
martyr to the agonies of chronic
indigestion and biliousness, my
stomach and liver, both, seeming
unable to do their work. The misery
and pain I endured seemed to cloud
my very life. I was afraid to eat
and the little food I did take was
often thrown up at once. I had a
sense of great weight on my chest,
became bloated with wind and
giddy, had splitting headaches and
grew w-eak, nervous, pale and lan-
guid. After trying many medicines
uselessly, my mother, four years ago,
persuaded me to use Mother Seigel’s
Syrup and in two months I was quite
cured of- the affliction of many
years.” Mrs. A. King, fruiterer and
refreshment dealer, 57 Angas Street,
Adelaide, March 17, 1905.
*** No one who reads Mrs. King'.
written statement above should suffcr
indigestion for a week , let alone
almost a lifetime , when that cheap ,
sfe and simple remedy , Mother
Ssigel's Syrup, can be had at any
chemist's shop.
IT
IDAZZLES THE WORLD,
DR. SHELDON’S %
[NEW DISCOVERY '
iFORAOUGHS, . . Prlc. 11l
\ i.OLDS and . Mi
CONSUMPTION, 1,6 * 3 -^pr
CURES WHERE ALL
ELSE FAILS.
DUNKLING’S
TCH
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch regulated.
A 'Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
%
f
'S
iS?!
MELBOURNE
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-hick Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia. fy.
3 ■
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot Tor ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUIMKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
B.S
Medicated
TABLETS.
THE GREAT NEW ZEALAND riJRE
For Coughs, Colds, Catarrh, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption.
Recommended by the N.Z. Health Department, and
acknowledged by Specialists to be the C eatest Lung
Food ot the day. Sold by Chemists at 1/ .5 and 2/6 tin.
If not obtainable, wjrite, enclosing stamps, to BJORNSTAD & STACEY, 81 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATrI' SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
FOURTH WEEK and CONTINUED TRIUMPH of th *
Eminent Comedian,
MR. ANDREW MACK,
Supported by HIS OWN COMPLETE COMPANY, !n
a Play Written Expressly for him, entitled,
TOM MOORE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. 'ZW~ PRICES AS USUAL.
Th eat r e royal, sydne y.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO WEEKS of the GILBERT AND SULLIVAN
OPERA SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE GONDOLIERS,
Interpreted by Mr. J. C. Williamson’s
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN’S REPERTOIRE COMPANY.
SATURDAY, JULY 8, for SIX NIGHTS AND ONE
MATINEE ONLY, THE MIKADO.
Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s. PRICES —ss, 3s, 2s and Is.
C~R ITERiON THEATRE, SYDNE Y.
Lessee JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
THE HIT OF THE SEASON,
NAUGHTY NANCY.
JOHN F. SHERiDAN has caused a Sensation in
his Triple Character.
MISS AMBER. MR. BLAKE. MISS BARLOW.
LITTLE GULLIVER.
THE PINKY -PANKY- POO BALLET Rapturously
Received and Encored.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Next Production— THE EARL AND THE QIRL.
QUEEN’S HALL, SYDNEY.
Sub-Lessee & Manager .. Mr. F. M. CLARK.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
FRANK M. CLARK’j NEW FOLLY CO.
The Brightest and Most Refined Vaudeville Show in
the Commonwealth.
SATURDAY NEXT, for the First Tune in Sydney, F. M.
Clark’s New and Original First Part, OUR FOOTBALLERS.
POPULAR PRICES—2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY.
■rJIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of Master BOBBIE WYLDMAN and Miss
CLARICE DUDLEIGH. Abo, Mr. FRED. BLUETT.
HARRY ROCHFOR I, HARRY HaRT, FRANK YORKE.
Continued Success of Miss MAUD BEATTY, the Charming
Young Operatic Artiste. Mr. J. W. WINTON, accom-
panied by the Irrepressible M’GINTY.
Immediate Success of MDLLE. ALICE QUERRA, French
and Spanish Soubrette and Dancer. Mr. NAT TRAVERS,
Mr. IRVING SAYLES, Mr. LAL LOGIE.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
ALICE PIERCE, American Impressionist.
HILDA LA ME, Soprano Vocalist.
JAMES HARVEY, Corned an and Dancer.
TOM DAWSON, Comedian.
STAVE, Indian Electrical Comedy Artist.
THE GOTHAMS, Quaint Singing Comedians.
HARRY TAFT, Whistling Comedian.
FANNY POWERS, FORD & BENTLEY.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE:.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Combination of
Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in the Famous
Drury Lane Melo-Faree,
THE FLOOD TIDE.
&W PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
C. SIMONSENS, Manager.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday), JULY 6, TO-MORROW (Friday),
JULY 7, LAST 2 NIGHTS in Melbourne of
MR. GEORGE STEPHENSON’S ENGLISH MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
THE SKIRT DANCER.
Interpreted by EDWARD LAURI, MAY BEATTY, MISS
WATTS-PHIIXIPS, CHAS. M’NAUGHTON.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
pRIVCESS’S THEATRE, MELSO URNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 8, First Appearance in
Melbourne of
THE BROUCH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY
IN
BEAUTY AND THE BARGE
for tli? First Time in Australasia.
ROBERT BROUGH as CAPTAIN BARLEY.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
ALLAN HAMILTON, Manager.
MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, GREAT SUCCESS:
of the Eminent Tragedienne,
Miss ]\Ta.uoe O’lSTeil,
in
ELIZABETH, QUEEN OF ENGLAND.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES,
WEDNESDAYS.
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an Order of the High Court of Justice
* Chancery Division dated (he 7th day of November IUO4
made in an Action in the matter of the Estate of Hans
Campbell late of Legananny in the District of Loughbrick-
land in the County of Down in Ireland Farmer deceased
CAMPBELL v. ROSCO 1904 C. 2033 Whereby the follow-
ing inquiry was directed An inquiry who were the per-
sons entitled by virtue of or according to the Statue of
Distribution or otherwise to the personal Estate of the
said Intestate Hans Campbell living at the time of his death
and whether any of them are since dead and if so who are
their respective legal personal representatives JOHN
CAMPBELL the brother of the Intestate the said Hans
Campbell if living or if the said John Campbell survived
the said Intestate Hans Campbell (who died on the 17th
day of February 1903) and has since died the legal personal
representatives of the said John Campbell or if the said
John Campbell pre-deceased the said Intestate Hans
Campbell the Children of the said John Campbell
if living or the legal personal representatives of
such of them as survived the said Intestate Hans
Campbell and have since died are on or before the 25th
day of October 1905 to come in and prove their respective
claims in the Chambers of Mr. Justice Swinfen-Eady and
Mr. Justice Farwell Room 710 at the Royal Courts of
Justice Strand London England or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said Order. Wednesday the Bth day of November 1905 at
12 o’clock at noon at the said Chambers is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this 25th dav of May 1905.
SPENCER WHITEHEAD,
Master.
NOTE.—The said John Campbell left Ireland and went
to Auckland, in New Zealand, in 1805. In 1870 he was at
132 Queen-street, Melbourne, in Australia, having pre-
viously spent six months in Sydney, in Australia. He
subsequently returned to Sydney, where he was last heard
of in 1877.
SHAEN ROSCOE MASSEY & CO.,
8 Bedford Row, London, England,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
DEAFNESS CURED,
THE AUROPHONE,
the latest and mos
Scientific Discovery fo.-
the RELIEF and CURE of DEAFNESS and HEAD
NOISES. Descriptive Pamphlet sent Free. Add i s :
THE AUROPHONE CO.,
14 Oastlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
Last half-year of Ruby P.C., Charters Towers,
compares poorly with the half that went before ; 623 tons
gave 9030 z., an average of loz. 9dwt. Residues brought
the value to £6 19s. a ton. Previous term 1897 tons
averaged loz. 14dwt, worth £7 15s. sd. Only one div. of
3d. (41250) was paid, against £6250 for preceding term.
Co. commenced to sink a new shaft with £3OOO in hand,
and winds up with £2083. Considering £5OOO less in
divs. has been paid, position is not strong. When the
new straight was started, 190 ft. was the estimated
depth to the reef; but 240 ft. has not disclosed anything
payable, so an underlie has been started at the' 100 ft.
formation on a few inches of stone. No. 1 shaft has been
sunk 395 ft. and bottomed on formation. The report
mentions in various places, “The stopes are now ex-
hausted.” You can’t say worse of a stope than that.
* * * *
The Commonwealth, Charters Towers, one of
the “ pups ” that were sooled on to Brisbane, exhausted
its capital in sinking a hole 30ft. ; but it has been re-
floated. Prospectus calls it the Mystery; 100,000 shares,
, all contributing, of ss. ; situated oh the famous Mystery
Flat, adjoining the Columbia and the Extended, on the
sensational Brilliant line of reef, &e. Co. has 45 acres,
and proposes to sink 250 ft. for a start. The flat is a net-
work of pig-rootings, abandoned for years on account of
heavy water. Wardens’ returns (10,496 tons for 10,5150 z.)
do not shine, when one remembers that some crushings
went 4oz. a ton. The Columbia (shut down), formerly
the Queen Block Extended, has spent £BB,OOO and got
nothing. Brilliant Extended is working at a depth of
2366 ft., and the Mystery is 1J miles further out. What
show have they of getting the Brilliant reef with a capital
of £25,000? In order to rush things along, the office has
reserved 30,000 shares.
* » * *
An interesting show is the Queen Deep, Charters
Towers, better known as the Union Jack, the Sunburst,
the Queen Consols, and by sundry other names. Present
co. is in 200,000 shares, of ss. ; 100,000 paid-ups went to
Bull, mostly for his heap of mullock. Contribs. are held
by a select few ; calls are light (id. per month). Mine is
situated in the northern part of the field, in diorite coun-
try, remarkable for the number of cross-courses it con-
tains. Previous co.’s in that locality made ado of things
for a while, but failed hopelessly when deep ground was
reached. Queen Deep will possibly be a 14dwt. show,
and should be on stone this month. With careful man-
agement, there should be something in this. Recent
operations in the Union Jack (or whatever its name was)
missed, it is said, 4ft. of crushing stuff in some old work-
ings that other co.’s had left as unpayable, with the
crushing appliances in use some years ago. A shrewd
crowd is running the business.
* * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, for a fortnight,
505 tons for 281 oz. ; concentrates and residues bring total
to £2332. This leads some squibs on ; even the School
Reserve, after about 11 years’ exemption, is on the move.
Why not let dead cats lie ? Freeholds have unwatered
their mine, and a start to drive their bottom level west,
towards Mills’ (under three-quarters of a mile), may be
made any day. Ground, so far, has a nasty habit of turn-
ing over just when a bit of stone comes in. As Mills’
United and the Freeholds are managed by the same firm,
why not continue one of the former’s drives, at the
latter’s expense, and prove beyond a doubt that payable
ore lives in the Freeholds’ ground ? It seems ridiculous
to ask a co. to spend thousands of pounds in learning if
the reef lives, when the same information could be
obtained with the expenditure of as few hundreds. About
here is where the gamble in Towers mines comes in.
Mexican is after the same make, and should it locate it,
the field will have to be shifted round a bit to fall in
line. Freehold Co. is all contributing.
* * * *
Expert Rolker’s report on Great Fingall (W.A.)
has been made ; he thinks B. M. & Co. over-estimated ore
reserves 7 per cent., which, in the circumstances, isn’t
much, and apparently reduces their value from £2,500,000
to £2,325,000. Estimates here must be largely guesswork,
anyway. The levels are vertically 200 ft. apart, and on
the underlay fully 250 ft., so data for gauging either
quantity or quality are meagre. Mine continues to give
poor results at two lowest levels ; and that’s hard fact and
not guesswork, though it hasn’t much bearing on the
question of actual reserves.
* * * *
May outputs of chief W.A. mines:—Fine gold:
Fingall 13,6640 z., Horseshoe 13,2110 z., Oroya 12,8700 z.,
Ivanhoe 10,6450 z., Perseverance 89070 z., Associated
47060 z., Gwalia 53180 z., Kalgurli 38930 z., Lake View
Consols 37820 z., Asso. Northern 37120 z., Cosmopolitan
28710 z., East Murchison Ud. 18620 z., Hainault 16720 z.,
Bellevue 14010 z., Laneefield 12890 z., Merton’s 9180 z.,
Vivien 7980 z., Star 6110 z., W.F. Main Reefs 5420 z., North
Kalgurli 4530 z., Hannan’s Reward 3110 z., Red Hill 7290 z.,
Craiggiemore 3520 z., Queen Margaret 920 z., South Gipps-
land 2640 z. Bullion: Great Boulder 12,6970 z., Mount
Morgans 13600 z., Golden Pole 29430 z., Westralia 15170 z.,
Princess Royal 13480 z., North White Feather 13610 z., Mt.
Jackson 10630 z., Ida 11. 10190 z., Golden Ridge 947(z..
Menzies Consols 8520 z., Potosi 8400 z., Cumberland 6890 z.,
Menzies Expin. 5820 z., Princess Alix 5370 z., Waihi 3900 z.
Following mines worked at a loss: Mt. Morgans £9OO,
Laneefield £BOO, Bellevue £4OO, Merton’s £4OO, Princess
Royal £3OO, W.F. Main Reefs £3OO, North Kalgurli £lOO,
Waihi £lOO.
* * * *
Rumors are afloat that Associated (W. A.) is
running short of ore, and will have to close down treat-
ment plant. This is nonsense. Since G. M. Roberts took
control three months ago reserves have gone up by leaps.
At 1400 ft., Australia main lode is 17ft. wide, and all ore
cpming from it is going to the mill. Workings on this
lode are connected with Oroya’s south block at 200, 300
and 500 ft. ; but, for most part, lode is quite unexplored.
There is nearly 1000 ft. of virgin ground south from
Oroya’s boundary. In addition to Tetley’s lode and the
cross lode, Australia east lode is providing ore for mill.
Latter lode is entirely misnamed, as, at 900 ft., it is 150 ft.
;west of shaft, and, at 1200 ft., about 200 ft. west. Above
900 ft. thisslode has not been tapped at all, and west side
of shaft is unexplored in upper levels. Management of
this mine has in the past been very faulty at times.
Treatment plant is being remodelled, and nearly half of
it thrown out. When overhauled it is expected to treat
10,000 tons, instead of 8000 monthly as hitherto. Plant
will be shut down for a few odd shifts to make some
alterations, but not because of any shortage of ore. It
looks as if Associated is to be one of the field's best mines.
Oroya shoot is still proving a will o’ the wisp, but if it is
found to continue and maintain its richness, Associated
will certainly be in the top flight.
* * * *
Cumberland, Norseman (W.A.), is being boomed,
but booming is wholly unjustified. Reef is a mere leader,
and, according to official reports, only worth 7 to 8 dwt.,
and a lot of sorting must be done tq maintain output.
Battery is an out-of-date light plant.' Costs are high,
though last month they were only 553;,'. as against 665. for
April, and 83s. for March. Profit for last three months
has been £6OO, £9OQ, and £750, and value of ore 100 s., 965.
2d., and 80s. Bd. per ton. Grade of ore. has declined very
seriously during past three month's, and last month
would have shown a loss at the March costs rate. Total
working exes, and upkeep tot up to 325. 4d., while
development costs 225. Bd., or nearly £7OO monthly.
This is more than double the amount Golden Pole spends
on development, although treating nearly four times as
much ore. Co. may continue paying divs. a little longer,
but position, as set out above, can’t be called promising.
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * «
Burbank's Birthday Gift (W.A.), which has
been under a cloud for some time, has rejoined producers,
after a long spell. At 800 ft. a shoot of ore 200 ft. long by
12ft. wide, worth 12dwt., has been opened up, and shaft is
down to 900 ft., w’here a fresh level will be started shortly.
Half the mill is now crushing, and possibly whole 30 head
will be going before long. Should No. 9 level equal No. 8,
prospects will be greatly improved, and co. may again
pay divs.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Billy Barlow (the “Blue-tailed Ply") had a birthday
up Gympie way t’other week. He is now on the shady
side of 85, and has had his golden wedding.
“A. 8.”: Whilst passing through Colombo last year, 1
visited a native theatre and saw a dusky George Lauri,
with a chalked face, create shrieks of mirth by his
impersonation of a white man. Here is a tip for some of
our colored comedians. Pope as a black man disguised
as a white man should be a matter of interest. I have
wondered at times why one of the ebony tribe did not
study tile aboriginal character a little, and give a sketch
of King Billy in his ’possum rug and copper plat..
’All Caine has not lost the knack of booming his pro-
ductions. Somehow it has got into the papers that
George Alexander receives £250 per week as lea ling man
in “ The Prodigal Son ”at Drury Lane. Probably, also,
the supers engaged, lying flat, would extend from Loudon
to Port Darwin ; placed perpendicularly they would reach
the planet Mars ; and the paint used for the scenery
was as many gallons as a year’s beer supply for tl e
Britisli Empire.
“ Tet. P.”: S.M, Herald, an organ that abhors the alleged
tendency of a few Australians to pronounce “ a ” as “ i,”
instead of adapting the “ naice ” English practice of
reversing the blunder, dogmatised thus (26/6/’O5 ) on the
recent production of “ The Yeoman of the Guard”: “In
the ‘Spinning Song’ Miss Aggie Thorne’s ‘Heigh-ho’
was repeatedly mispronounced ‘ Hy-ho,’ an individual
peculiarity, which had apparently been overlooked at
rehearsal.” All the same, Miss Aggie Thorne had Web-
ster on her side. He says the pronunciation is Hi-ho !
And Gilbert himself at its dainty best in “ Princess Ida,"
has this idea of the word —
Oh dainty triolet!
Oh fragrant violet !
Oh gentle heigh-ho-let!
(Or little sigh).
The Herald’s craving’ to have the word called “ hay-ho ”
or “ hee-haw ” should be discouraged.
“S.S.”: Why was not Premier Bent moved to wrath
and autocratic action by M'Kee Rankin’s irreverent cari-
cature of George Reid in “ Magda ” ? Rankin, as the mili-
tant pa, is an exact replica of Reid, excepting that
the moustache is grey instead of sandy, and the monocle
is missing. The fall of the corporation and the warp in
the legs display an astonishing fidelity. The infuriated fat
father dashes on a small belltopper in one excited moment,
and the laug’h that results springs from the people’s recog-
nition of the fact that the caricature is now complete.
So general is the appreciation of the resemblance that
George is asked at his meetings : “ Have you brought
Magda with you, old man?”
“M.A.G.”: Had the idea that Australians who have
raved over every action of Togo’s did so on account of
John Bull’s repulsive alliance with Japan ; but a visit to a
certain show lately went a good way towards demolishing
that idea. Part of the entertainment consisted of a series
of pictures depicting the alleged treachery and cruelty of
Russian soldiers to wounded Japanese. Each picture
was announced by the manager in this style : “ Here we
have the dear little brave Jap,” &c., or “ Here we see our
dear little brown brother in the east ” (seems to me the
bump of locality needs developing here), “ who is a pattern
to the whole world,” &c. The hall was crowded with a
Japanalian audience, who clapped and hoorayed at the
limelight reflection of the Monkey’s flag. They evidently
thought the pictures were real—in fact, one man nearly
bit me when I called them a “ fake.” I asked him if he
thought those brutal Russians allowed a strange photo-
grapher to stand beside them with impunity and take
views of their crimes, and he told me they had to do so
because the photographer was protected by the British
flag.
When the Modern Milo, whose bounteous form and
economical costumes are booming Rickards’ Melbourne
show, was a noticeable member of. a comic opera chorus j
she was the only girl on the stage who dispensed abso-
lutely with What the late Henry' Parkes used to :call
“ hadventitious haids.” Not that all are padded, but
stage nymphs often wear—as their admirers do not alwavs I
know—a pair of thick, woollen tights under the silken
hose which the audience breathes hard over. “Milo’s”
measurements were so well-proportioned that the woollens
were regarded as unnecessary, is a fine girl, and her
unadulterated figure is a standing reproach to those who
assert that woman has deteriorated since the days of
Phidias and other persons whose descendants sell oysters.
Ex-Premier Philp of Queensland struggles
hard to look like a live politician still. L ist week;
he tried to disguise his deadness, at Townsville by !
means of a speech in which he severely blame I |
the Morgan-Kid ston Ministry for putting on a j
little extra taxation to try and square the awful I
deficits Philp left, and denounced it for not }
borrowing “any amount of money” and rushing I
on with railways, as “any Government which had j
faith in the future of the State” ou,ht to do. |
Poor old Philp never sees beyond the near side of !
the next LO.U.
“ Gr.H.” complains :
Sydney Worker of June 24 contained a cartoon depict-
ing Australia’s political alternatives. Reidism was shown
on one side, with the furious walrus of Monopoly howling
for its prey behind the electoral door. Behind the other
door sat the feminine embodiment of Australian progress,
with a large cog-wheel gracefully depending from her left
hand, and with 68 foundries in full blast on the right.
And the leading article on the opposite page held Chris.
Watson up in silhouette against the bellowing dawn of
destiny, with a golden pavement of noble conceptions be-
neath his feet, five glorious ideals in his right hand, four
slightly-frayed ditto in his left, but nary a sign of a sen-
sible, foundry-maintaining, Protective fiscal policy about
him.


BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
IV] ORRIS’S^
Imperial
B\>e * hs
Ointment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
-restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/“
Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melbi
IMPERIAL."
chemists & stores.
11
VISITORS TO SyPNEY.
THE
Empire Hotel,
PITT & HUNTER STS.
THIS HOTEL is situated in the highest
and best position of Sydney, close to the
Botanical Gardens, Government House,
Circular Quay (the landing-place of all large
Ocean Mail Steamers), near principal Clubs,
Theatres, and _ within two minutes’ walk of
G.P.O. It is most elegantly furnished
throughout; Sanitary Arrangements are of
the very latest. Electrically lighted through-
out, and elevators to every floor.
Smoking, Commercial Rooms,
and Ladies’ Drawing Rooms,
and Library, &c.
TARIFF: BACK ROOMS ■- - from £2 2s. Weekly
% FRONT ROOMS - - from £3 3s. Weekly
JAHES JACKSON, Proprietor (Late Western Australia and Queensland).
Australian Mutual Provident Society
established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—Tiiomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. VV Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ;F. E. Winchcombe, Esq.,
M.L.A. General Manager and Actuary—Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F. A., F.S.S.
HE \D OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
MURRELLS & BECKER,
Manufacturers of
Sporting and Travelling Goods.
m
ss
65
WmW?
THE TRAVELLERS' DEPOT
QAfcinnW stands tor Strength and Beauty.
OHnUUII If you have not played with a
Sandow you have not kicked the best ball in Aus-
tralia. Shape, Weight and Wear guaranteed.
Write for one—l4/6. Other sizes and qualities
from 2/6.
No. 7, A.M.P. Buildings,
Edward St., Brisbane, Sept. 2,1904.
Messrs. Murrells & Becker, Brisbane.
Gentlemen, —I have very much pleasure in inform-
ing you that the “ Sandow ” Footballs manufactured
by your firm, and which we used in all the matches
in connection with Great Britain, have given entire
satisfaction to both the Queensland and Australian
teams. The balls reflect great credit on your firm,
and it is extremely gratifying to find that such an
excellent article can be procured in the colonies.—
Yours faithfully, MAURICE BALDWIN, Hon. Sec.
Queensland Rugby Union.
Shin Guards, Punching Balls, Bladders, Cloves
and Swivels always In stock.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE B.
360 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
212 Edward St., BRISBANE,
The “GOERZ” Binocular
FIELD GLASS.
The FINEST CLASS IN THE WORLD.
Good for any Distance up to 20 Miles.
SUITABLE FOR TOURIST, RACES,
MARINE, MILITARY, and all uses, and
absolutely invaluable to the Squatter.
Price £8 10s.
Size No. 9 —that is, magnifying nine times as
much as the ordinary Field-Glass.
In Solid Leather Case, with Name
or Initials stamped in Gold.
A LIMITED NUMBER ONLY AT THIS PRICE.
OSBORN & JERDAN,
“My Opticians
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
YOUR BEST DOCTOR
«
Hi
: ■ i
.
:
&
■
:
1W
■
■
.
SMsb
Hi
iglgsS
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.
Physician-in-Chief to the Institute.
A BOOK WORTH £lOO.
It tells every Weak Man how to get strong. It explains the
reason for the Early Decay of Manhood’s Strength and how
Perfect Vigor is restored. It tells how we have cured thousands
of weak men in Australia during the past five years. It is a
beautifully illustrated, 570-page book. It tells about the cause
and cure of “weakness” in men, plain, honest, straight from
the shoulder. It tells how we cure it. To any man who suffers
from an early breaking down of the Vital Powers it is invaluable.
“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 570 pages,
150 Graphic Medical Plates,
31 chapters, is the Book for Sick Men. It is commended by
hundreds of Australian newspapers. It costs you Nothings
except the postage fee of One Shilling: in Stamps.
Women’s Department.
The department for the treatment of women at the Institute
is under the supervision of Dr. Elizabeth White, a famous lady
doctor and expert diagnostician, who is registered by the
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, New Zealand, and
America. Dr. White is possessed of valuable experience gained
at the most famous American and Indian colleges, and has
travelled extensively in India, China, Japan, Australia, and
America. Any suffering woman can consult her at her elegant
rooms, 227 Elizabeth St., or by correspondence. Dr. White has
studied with some of the leading scientists of the day.
The worst disease afflicting' the Australian man of to-day is the Disease of the Blood,
which eats up the constitution, undermining it in an apparently incurable manner, and
placing the life of the afflicted man in absolute jeopardy. If a man is attacked by a BLOOD
DISEASE, which affects his entire system, and which arises from personal or congenitive
cause, the hour he employs to seek effective medical aid is worth more than he can estimate.
A few months at the most is the time a man may live if he is afflicted with the Disease
which is the scourge of generations. It is a man’s duty to become well and strong, and to
call and consult the Specialists of
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
MEDICAL INSTITUTE
if he wishes to obtain the advice of Medical Experts. In the treatment of such diseases as VARICOCELE, RUPTURE, INFLAMMA-
TION of the PROSTATE GLAND, WEAKNESS of VITAL ORGANS, KIDNEY DISORDERS, STOMACH TROUBLES, CON-
TAGIOUS BLOOD COMPLAINTS, BLADDER IRREGULARITIES, EPILEPSY, these SPECIALISTS are amongst the most famous
in the world. THEY DO NOT EXPERIMENT, or professionally humbug the sufferer ; they tell the truth straight out. It may be
unpleasant, but when
A MAN’S LIFE IS AT STAKE
the truth must be told. The Specialists have practised in Australia for over a QUARTER of a CENTURY. They require no recoin
mendation, the best they possess lies in the fact that thousands of men they have cured live in Australia to-day.
Sle. jk Mi, M.; «&• Jp Jk aV
/IA /p Vo iff »o -O
The Physician-in-Chief to the Institute is DR. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L. M., and his
Certificates prove REGISTRATION by the MEDICAL BOARDS of AUSTRALIA, ENGLAND, and AMERICA. In the treatment
and cure of MEN’S DISORDERS he is a Specialist of European Experience. He has filled honorary positions to Australian and
Continental Hospitals, arid is late of the British Army Medical Staff. Afflicted Men cannot do better than call and consult him, or
place their case in the hands of either of the several Medical Experts associated with this great Institute.
ADVICE and PRIVATE CONSULTATION IS TREE.
By reference to any of the leading; banks or commercial houses in Sydney, patients can
convince themselves as to the professional bont_-fides of this Medical Institute, It is
scientific in every detail. Its cost has been enormous. It is known far and wide by reason of
the great cures effected by its Specialists. Its Medical Staff comprise many of the greatest
Medical minds in the Commonwealth. A patient suffering from Varicocele, Rupture, Loss of
Vital Power, Weak or Shrunken Organs, General Debility, Heart Disease, Cancer, Sciatica, Rheu-
matism, Insomnia, Kidney Trouble, Dropsy, or Diabetes, Spinal Affections, Diseases of the
Stomach, Nerves or Blood, are all treated by Specialists who have studied each Disease
thoroughly. Patients may depend upon it the treatment they require is the treatment they
will receive, and will be such as no other medical institution in Australia can afford them.
HOME TREATMENT,
If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you of the
benefits of our wonderful treatment for the cure of Nerve and Blood Disorders.
11 Scarcely a day passes that the news does not reach us of some great home
cure of a person living so far away that a personal visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining
your feelings and symptoms as clearly as possible, and from it we will able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the
trouble of writing and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
Those who have the available time, and others who, through false modesty, refrain from personal consultation, should also take
advantage of treatment by PARCELS POST SYSTEM. ALL MEDICINES ARE SECURELY PACKED AND FORWARDED
SCREENED FROM OBSERVATION, and may be received in a few days after writing the application.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute
Richard Wallace, M.D., Physician-in-Chief.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Principal Women's Dept.
and at Melbourne.
Some N.S.W. wayback people who want a State
railway foreninst their door offer to give a pledge
to crop so many acres within three years ; and the
Sydney dailies say that it is a system which ought
to be encouraged, and that these people ought to
have a preference over the people who also want
railway lines but don’t offer any pledge. Yet,
when certain workmen give a pledge, backed up
by actual money, that they will keep steadily at
work, and won’t strike and disturb the business
of the country, the same papers say it is monstrous
to give them any preference over other workmen
who won’t offer any pledge. Also, they ask con-
temptuously how you can compel men to work if
they won’t; but they don’t ask how you can com-
pel men to put in crops if they won’t.
Writes Beaumont Smith :
I am sorry to see it, but at present it can’t be averted.
I refer to the jealousy between our artists, or many of
them, in Australia. There is bitter jealousy, and the
cause is the very limited market for pictures here. It is
a fight against each other, and friendship cannot be
maintained when men are starving, and there is a crust
on the horizon. I was talking to a rather well-known
artist the other day, just after he had come out of a big
exhibition then being held in Adelaide. I asked his
opinion of it. He puckered up his brow. “ Tripe ! awful
stuff!” Attended the exhibition, and talked with the
promoter ; mentioned this artist’s work. He turned up his
nose, “ Didn’t like it! Tripe ! Awful stuff 1.” It seems
the same everywhere in Australia. In nine cases out of
ten an artist has got little to say in a favorable strain
about his brother’s work, if their markets are the same.
If I went by Australian artists’ opinions of Australian
art, I’d begin to think everything was “ tripe.” Every
artist agrees that Longstaff, and one or two more men in
England, are real painters; but then these men don’t
affect their market.
The notion that Germany spends its nights
pouring beer down its throat doesn’t pan out too
well when you come down to figures. Certainly,
Germany gets rid of almost exactly half-a-gallon
per throat per week; but Westralia is nearly as
thirsty—its tally is only a spoonful or two short
of the half-gallon, and Britain beats both of them
hollow. S. Australia is the worst customer of the
brewer in these parts; it doesn’t even get rid of
so much as Maoriland, in spite of the latter State’s
big Prohibition patches. ButS.A. partly makes
up for its beer-famine by taking in just three
times more wine than the Australian average; and
even then it only drinks an annual gallons per
throat, while France keeps itself merry on 30.
Belgium is the real beer-drinker among the
nations; its score is 47| gallons a year, with
Britain second at 31, and Germany a bad third
with 26|.


How to Make the Liver Act Properly
Rev. Charles Wincott
WRITES :
“Gentlemen, —About three years ago I
was confined to my bed for a short time with
a very acute attack of Liver complaint.
After other medicines had failed to take any
effect, I was recommended by my doctor to
try Kutnow’s Powder, and I am glad to say
that after taking two bottles I was com-
pletely cured, and my health has been
better ever since. I have since recommended
your excellent preparation to quite a number
of sufferers, who testify of similar results.
“ (Rev.) CHAS E. WINCOTT.”
(Incumbent of St. Phillip’s Church,
(Adlington, Lancs.)
Dr. THORPE we™:
“ Grant Building, Los Angeles.
“ I prescribe Kutnow’s Powder and take
it myself occasionally ; it never fails to bring
about the most gratifying results in the most
pleasant manner.”
Sir J. B. MONCKTON
(Late Town Clerk, of London) wrote :
“Guildhall, London, E.C.
“Gentlemen, —I have much satisfaction in
stating 'hat for the last two years I have
regularly . sed Kutnow’s Powder, with the
result that troublesome and frequent attacks
of lumbago, with other gouty symptoms that
had troubled me for years, seem to have
entirely disappeared.”
THE FOOD PASSAGES
and ORGANS.
The body is a working machine, and like all other
machines wears away in use. Our bones and muscles, so firm
and strong, need constant repair to keep them so. For this
purpose food is necessary, and a series of instruments or
organs by which it may be changed into flesh and bone. We
are, therefore, furnished with teeth to chew, palates to taste,
stomachs to digest, livers to aid digestion, and bowels to carry
off the refuse matter. The Liver is the very gateway of
health, the sewage farm, where the poisons are neutralised by
the action of the bile ; it exerts an all-powerful influence on
the mind, temperament, and disposition. If your Liver is
active you are happy and light-hearted, if sluggish you are
crabby and miserable. Kutnow’s Powder will keep the
liver in perfect order.
Important Caution!
All respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder, but there are others ,
who, for the sake of a little extra profit, will attempt to foist upon
you some cheap imitation of their own. It is well known that
these cheap concoctions are highly dangerous, and in the case of
delicate, sensitive persons capable of inflicting permanent injury.
Kutnow’s Powder is pure, painless, palatable, free from sugar, and
absolutely harmless. See that the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow
& Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap, ” are on the carton in which the bottle is packed, and
also on the label on the bottle. This signature and trade mark
will alone insure your obtaining the
GENUINE Kutnow’s Powder.
CAPTAIN BARCLAY wbto®:
“Kirsteen, Cisbury Road, Brighton.
“ Gentlemen, —You kindly forwarded me
a bottle of your Kutnow’s Powder a short
time ago. I am very unwilling to testify
that things have worked wonders, but really
I cannot speak too highly of it. I have
suffered for years from constipation and liver
troubles. Your powder has done all that it
claimed, and more than that, it has given me
comfort. Its action is sure and gentle, and
at the same time certain, without any dis-
tressing effects.—Faithfully yours,
“ R. BARCLAY (Capt.).”
Dr. Tertius Marks WRITES :
(President of the Texas State Home Medical
Association; Medical Director of the G. A.R. of
the Department of Texas, Ex-Pension Medical
Examiner, U.S.A.)
“ Having tried your excellent preparation
(Kutnow’s Powder) personally, I am in a
position to say it is as good as it is possible
to conceive.”
Dr. I. N. LOVE
Late Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases,
Marion-Sims College of Medicine and College
of Physicians and Surgeons, says:
1 ‘ Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activi-
ties of the bowels and kidneys, it cleanses
the bowels, dilutes the urine, and flushes
out the kidneys in the most satisfactory way.
Thorough elimination is salvation, and there
is no better eliminator than Kutnow’s Pow-
der. “I. N. LOVE, M.D.”
Take Kutnow’s Powder and Enjoy Life
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. proprietors in u.s.a. : kutnow bros., ua., 853 Broadway, New York. [2—B].
We’ve Qured
Thousands !
NO OTHER REMEDY EQUALS
ELECTRICITY I
IF any Middle-Aged or Old Man who does not feel himself as
capable to-day as he did when budding into manhood, or
any Young Man who is not as perfect as he knows he ought to
be, will come or send to us, and let us apply Electricity to his
body, he will be made a Strong, Healthy, and Vigorous Being
in less than three months. You may think you have tried your
level best to be cured, you may have spent money on this
thing and that thing without any good results, but until you use
Electricity, and see for yourself what wonderful good it does
you, you cannot say with a clear conscience that you have done
your full duty to yourself.
There is Health, Strength, and Happiness to be obtained by having a Warm, Soothing Current of this Natural Revitalizing Element
poured into your body. It will strengthen the Weak Parts; it will drive away all Pains and Aches, and will give Energy and Ambition to
every Dull and Listless Being. No case of Weakness or Loss of Vital Power can resist its wonderful influence.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
Has permanently cured thousands who have tried everything else. It will cure you il you are only thoughtful
enough to try it. Electricity will circulate and invigorate your blood. It will cause your nerves to tingle
with renewed ambition, and your muscles to enlarge with increasing power. It will rejuvenate your entire
system, and make you once again see life as you saw it in your prime, and as every healthy man enjoys it. It will
cure any case of Weakness, Nervousness, Lassitude, Weak Back, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Bad Joints,
Varicocele, Indigestion, Constipation, Dyspepsia, Insomnia, and all Liver, Kidney, and Stomach Troubles.
VARICOCELE, CONSTIPATION, and NERVOUSNESS.
Packington Street, Chilwell, GEELONG, VIC.
Dear Sir*, —Just a few lines to thank you for the wonderful cure your
Belt has worked in my case. I still keep the Belt by me, and when I feel
over-tired I put it on for a few hours, and then I feel all right again. I
have had a number of people calling on me to know if your Belt is what it
is said to be, and for myself I cannot say enough for what it has done, and
I am sure that other sufferers will get the same relief if they will but try
it. Wishing you every success, I remain, yours truly, JAS. MORRISSEY.
INDIGESTION and CONSTIPATION.
Post Office, Woodgrove, MOONBAH, N.S.W.
Dear Sira, —I wish to express my grateful thanks for the benefits I
have received from wearing one of your Electric Belts. I have been a great
sufferer, not being able to sleep at night, nor do a day’s work, but after
wearing your Belt for about five months, I now thank Godthat I can sleep
well and do a day’s work with any man. I feel myself again.
Wishing you God-speed with your excellent Belts, I remain, Gentle*
men, yours faithfully, JOHN WHITEMAN.
Free Book.
lif you want to get well you must use ELECTRICITY. WRITE OR CALI/ for one of
our FREE BOOKS, expounding its uses and the results obtained by it. This Book, which
should be in every home, contains Valuable Advice for sufferers,"and gives Full Information
about our wonderful Belts. IT COSTS YOU NOTHING! It is beautifully illustrated,
and shows our method of applying Electricity in all kinds of Chronic Ailments, showing
exactly how the location of the trouble is reached. In addition, we will send you our Book of Cures, giving Photos, Names,
and Addresses of many cured people. Write to-day, and we will send both Books by return mail—Postage Paid.
CALL for FREE ADVICE, and have the working of this Wonderful Appliance explained to you. All Inform-
ation will be fully and freely given, and, should you desire it, a FREE TEST will be given you. HOURS: 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
the dr. McLaughlin go., ioow.
Market St.
SYDNEY.
Also at 64 WILLIS ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
•••• 167 E BWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
William Charles Crawford.
The Dp. McLaughlin
Kloctro-Plastic Truss
will cure any case of
RUPTURE, speedily
and permanently.
COCKLE’S
ANTI-
BILIOUS
PILLS.
«• I fl o not hesitate to say it is the best made pill la the kingdom."—Dr. G. P. Collie*, la the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physfclane of London.
ft FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. In valuable to every Mother of a family. Q


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumors, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores, &c.
Price, in Great Britain, Is. ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73 Farringdon-street, London, England. Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should look for
the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a green
label on each box. (Regd. copyright.)
JABORINE
HAIR TONIC.
The Finest Preparation ever Introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTEB THE GROWTH.
Price 2/6, Posted 2/9. Give it a Trial,
CRAIG AND AITKEN, ~
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
A Mother’s
Anxiety
r\ESPITE the mother’s unremit-
ting care, how few of our
children pass through the tender
years of childhood free from all
ailments ! Happily there is some-
thing which can relieve the con-
stant anxiety of the intelligent
mother who well knows that
little ailments, if neglected, easily
become serious. This is SCOTT’S
EMULSION of cod liver oil with
glycerine and the hypophosphites
of lime and soda, a perfect remedy
for all children’s troubles, for colds
and coughs, rickets, skin troubles,
teething troubles, wasting, frac-
tiousness, whooping cough, meas-
les, croup. Read this letter which
came to us from Mrs. K. Clarke,
ox Perth, Western Australia, dated
January 13th, 1904: —
“During the time we resided on the
goldfields, my little son Sydney suffered
greatly from prostration, accompanied
with vomitiug and
loss of appetite, du-
ring the summer
months. By giving
him Scott’s Emulsion
he was quite freed from
these attacks
during the
past two sum-
mers. I also
gave it to
him after a severe
attack of dysentery,
and was surprised at
the rapidity with which
he regained his health
and strength. I recom-
mend Scott’s Emul-
sion especially to any
mother who has deli-
cate or ailingchildren.”
Scott’s Emulsion
will do in a week
what common oil
and inferior emul-
sions will not do in
a month. The rea-
son is simple.
Scott’s Emulsion is
perfectly pleasant to
take and perfectly
digestible, which no
other form of cod
liver oil is.
Every experienced mother knows
that such a remedy is most certain
to prove itself a TRUE REMEDY.
Write to-day for a free sample bottle
(enclosing’4d. for postage and mention-
ing this paper) to SCOTT & BOWNE,
Etd., 483, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Letters Reporting Cures of Cases of
Bladder Disease.
From Mr. Alex. Diokson, 90 East Belt, Christchurch, N.Z., 21st February, 1904.
“ During recent years I have been troubled with urinary difficulties. My bladder seemed sore and
irritated, and my physician said I had catarrh of the bladder, which was difficult to overcome on
account of my advanced years. Warner’s Safe Cure was recommended to me, and 1 took frequent
doses, hardly daring to believe that I should be helped, but, to my relief, I found that the irritation
gradually subsided, the urinary difficulty passed away, and my general condition improved. I have
enjoyed splendid health for the past six months, and really feel younger than I did some years ago.
thanks to Warner’s Safe Cure.
From Capt. W. J. Stuart, Master Mariner, Station Avenue, Coburg, Vic., 6th April 1903.
“ It is with much pleasure that I beg to inform you of the great benefit I have derived from taking
Warner’s Safe Cure. In the early part of last January I had a chill, which turned to a very severe
attack of Inflammation of the Bladder. I consulted two doctors, and after examining me, each «nid
it was a diseage common to men of my age (I am over 60), and that I could only get relief by using an
instrument, as medicine would do me no good. I positively refused to let either of them use an
instrument on me, but at once procured a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure. I conscientiously and
truthfully declare that before finishing the first bottle I got absolute relief and began to feel better
in every respect. I have continued to take the medicine, and my health has wonderfully improved.
I am in as good health now as I can ever expect to be, and my recovery is entirely due to Warner’s
Safe Cure. I carefully observed the diet directions given in your book. I most strongly recom-
mend Warner’s Safe Cure to anyone who suffers as I did, and can only add that to me it has proved
invaluable.”
Writing on the 7th March, 1904, Capt. Stuart says—“I have received your letter of 5th inst.»
making inquiry as to whether I can now confirm the statements made in my letter to you of 6th
April last year, and am very pleased indeed to be able to advise you that I have had no symptom of
any return of bladder trouble, and my general health is so satisfactory that I am constantly being con-
fratulated on my renewed vigor by all my friends. I can only add that I cannot be too grateful, as
am sure that I owe my health to Warner’s Safe Cure. The effect of the medicine in my case has
been most remarkable.”
From Mrs. Elizabeth Roben, “Brighton,” French Street, Kogarah, Sydney, N.S.W..
25th September, 1903. ' ’
“ About eight years ago I was attacked by great pain at the stomach and severe vomiting. I took
a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure, but it did me no good. I then went to the hospital and underwent an
operation, but was not cured. The pain I suffered was terrible. The medicine the doctors pre-
scribed gave me no relief. I was brought home and treated by another medical man, but still obtained
no relief. He at last said he could do no more for me, and my friends were sent for. My sister,
having great faith in Warner’s Safe Cure, brought a bottle with her, and gave me a tablespoonful
every quarter of an hour from eleven o’clock till one, and the relief from pain was wonderful. I con-
tinued to take Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills until I was restored to Health.”
From Mr. Joel Weatherby Bolton, King Edward-street, North East Valley, Dunedin, N.Z.. 10th
February, 1904.
“ I was in good health until about four years ago, when I noticed that my back became lame and
sore. The pains kept increasing with severe twitches and slow exhaustive aches, and I found that
I had inflammation of the bladder. I tried many remedies without getting better, but finally
decided to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and, within a few days, to my great joy, found relief. I con-
tinued to take the medicine, and at the end of three months was restored to perfect health. I am only
too pleased to endorse the value of Warner's Safe Cure.”
From Mr. Joseph Agnew, Fairfield, N.S.W., 18tli September, 1903.
“ Some five years ago I was attacked by great pains in the groin, which at times were so bad that
I almost cried with agony. I wa3 treated by doctors, but found no relief. A friend advised me to
take Warner’s Safe Cure, which I did, and after taking two bottles I was quite cured.”
From Mr. Christian Lawson, Cook-street, Auckland, N.Z., 17th March, 1904.
“ I suffered from inflammation of the bladder for thirteen months, and only those who similarly
suffer know anything about the agony I endured. It is one of the most painful diseases a person can
suffer from, and one of the hardest to get rid of. Had it not been for Warner’s Safe Cure, I feel that
I should be in my grave to-day, but, thanks to its wonderful efficacy, I am in the best of health
instead. I took fourteen bottles, and felt my health and strength gradually return. I believe my
restoration is permanent, as I h&ve not had the slightest pain for over three months.”
Uric Acid.—The presence of this acid in the blood is the cause of people suffering from Rheu-
matism, Gout, Neuralgia, Bachaehe, Lumbago, Sciatica, Gravel, and Bladder Troubles. The accumu-
lation of uric acid in the blood is a certain indication that the kidneys are acting inefficiently.
Warner’s Safe Cure acts specifically upon the kidneys, and invariably restores those vital organs to
health and activity, when all suffering due to uric poisoning ceases. So potent is Warner’s Safe Cure
that it will even cure Bright's Disease of the kidneys.
A simple test to make as to the condition of the kidneys is to put some of the urine, passed the
first thing in the morning, into a bottle or covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If it is
then cloudy, or if it contains a sediment like brickdust, or if particles float about in it, or it is of an
unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy, and no time should be lost in commencing to take
Warner’s Safe Cure.
ROBERT HURST,
FLINDERS ST., SWANSTON ST.,
BOURKE ST.,
PI FI ROIIPMF
All Suburbs, and Ballarat.
No. 271 F.
Special
Gentlemen's
“Zephyr" Kid
Balmorals,
Welted,
Guaranteed,
12s. 6d.
No. 271 F.
This BOOT is made
in any Shape to
suit Customers,
and will be mailed
anywhere in the
Commonwealth
for
1 3s. 6d
Robert Hurst,
MELBOURNE, all ♦ . .
Suburbs, and Ballarat.
At the recent Sydney Licensing Court
three renewals of publicans’ licenses on the Rocks
resumed areas were refused. One of these houses
had a venerable piece of timber over the door.
John Rochester, a North Shields man and mate of
a whaling ship, and Eleanor, his wife, a Meath
woman, established, prior to the year 1830, a
public-house at the corner of Harrington and
Gloucester streets —at least, so Bays an advertise-
ment of the time, though the searcher to-day will
have some difficulty in finding the junction of the
streets named. In the late 30’s the Rochesters
removed to a new house in Cambridge-street, and
carried the sign there. Later the faded intima-
tion about demented and furious liquors
was shifted along with the license—a license
was then a very portable thing—to a house
in Cumberland-street, which was named “ The
Erin-Go-Bragh.” This is the place that has just
lost its license through old age, and a relic that
has announced that beer was available almost
since the beginnings of Sydney will now presum-
ably serve as firewood.
About Mummers.
“ O’Fipp ”: Notice that a postcard-pictured foreign
actress rejoices in the name of “ Meaty.” Probably it is
not pronounced in the English way, but it ought to be.
There is much meat on the lady.
Nance O’Neil, when she returns to America, intends
going in for stock raising on her 200-acre farm, which she
has named O’Neil Manor. Nance spent her girlhood in
the Californian valleys, and is said to know a cow from a
horse.
Barney Bernard, who played some German Jew parts
here with Kolb and Dill, but has now quitted burlesque to
devote himself to the serious Jew, tells a ’Frisco
Examiner interviewer that when he opened at Sydney,
four liabbis attended “in full rig-—hats on and ail that
kind of thing.” Bernard evidently means “ rabbies ”
wild rabbies. And in addition to keeping their hats on
they most likely took their coats off. Also they had a
donah whose name was Sal.
Vesta Tilley, of the London music-halls, goes to the
United States on a six weeks engagement at £2 a minute.
The contract was probably made in that precise form for
advertising purposes, but the lady assured a London
Express interviewer that it is quite genuine. From the
moment of her going on, three stop-watches (including
her husband’s) will be on her. “ Any time spent in bow-
ing after the last song not to be allowed.” Beckoning on
a 20-minutes’ turn twice a day, the pay works out at
about £5OO a week.
One incident in “ Sporting Life,” played by Bland Holt
at Melbourne Boyal, leaves confusing financial impressions.
The hero’s best girl’s little brother has signed a P.N. for
£6OOO, and has forged the hero’s name on the back. The
bill gets into the hands of the Jew moneylender, from
whom the hero has borrowed £6OOO on the security of
“ the old ’ome.” Not being able to pay £12,000 this tall
and noble youth lets the mortgage be foreclosed and
acknowledges the forged signature as his own (loud cheers
and whistling). Then, to show how complete is his mag-
nanimity, he tears up the bill, thus destroying the only
security the Jew has got. And the Jew, instead of leap-
ing at him like a clawful vulture, takes it quietly, while
the gallery cheers again, and nearly whistles its head off.
At Melbourne City Court, the other day, a citizen
named Thomas Bergin was charged with stealing a watch
(on a very doubtful question of identity by a Chinaman),
and the Age described him as “once well-known as a
vocalist.” Whilst the accused was flatly contradicting
the Chow a brass band outside the Court struck up “ The
Dead March in Saul,” whereupon Bergin fell to the floor
in an epileptic fit. This was not what might have been ex-
pected of the old original Tom Bergin who used to sing
the part of Private Willis in “lolanthe,” and, as a matter
of fact, Tom had nothing to do with the case of watch-
stealing. He wrote to the Age stating that he was in no
way connected with the Bergin who took a fit when the
“ Dead March ” came to pass. But possibly he would have
joined his namesake in the fit if he had been present on
that melancholy occasion.
Munsey’s Magazine suggests that Ibsen is, among other
things, a bit of a plagiarist:—“New York has recently
enjoyed—we use this last word as did the lady who ‘ en-
joyed very poor health ’—an opportunity to hear ‘ When
The Dead Awake.’ This is described as the ‘ swan song’
of the septuagenarian Norwegian dramatist. No self-
respecting swan would approve such an application of the
term. It is a dreary and talky piece with marked resem-
blance to ‘ Amoureuse,’ which Bejane inflicted on us
during her American tour. Both plays portray a husband
and wife who have grown tired of each other. Neither is
dramatic, pleasant, or interesting, neither teaches any-
thing that has not been much more effectively taught
before.” Incidentally the Munsey critic remarks that the
hero of Ibsen’s latest is introduced to the audience as a
genius, but from the things he says and does upon the
stage one would take him for a drivelling idiot. The un-
enlightened have often made the same complaint. In
Ibsen’s plays the alleged brainy or brilliant people never
by any chance talk in a bright or impressive way.
“ Melb.” : “ Arrah-na-Pogue ” was first acted here with
Barry Sullivan, as Shaun the Post, at the Boyal. Mike
Feeney, Harwood ; Arrah, Mrs. Heir. Sullivan sang the
“ Wearing of the Green,” and it took well enough, but
the Pros were very sarcastic on him. He also sang the
“ Wonderful Crocodile,” and Long Tom Coffin, in “The
Pilot.” Jokes were cut on this, after he had gone, in
Whitworth’s farce of “ Catching a Conspirator,” wherein
Harwood acted Barry Sullivan. Bogers acted Mike
Feeney in Sydney. Williamson and Maggie Moore, after
their great London hit in “ Struck Oil,” were announced
for “ Arrah-na-Pogue,” but it was baulked through a dis-
pute between Manager Webster and Boucicault. Wil-
liamson gave up the engagement rather than spite Bouci-
cault by acting this piece. Countess Vacaresco, in her
newly-published book on “ Kings and Queens I Have
Met,” says she spent an evening at Windsor Castle with
Queen Victoria, Queen Alexandra, and Princess Beatrice.
Victoria then made a young Irish lady sing “Wearing of
the Green,” greatly to the disgust of Alexandra.
Mr. Caldwell, a calico-printer, and member of the House
of Commons, has been talking to his Mid-Lothian con-
stituents about the supposition that musical compositions
and trash of that sort deserve a protective copyright law.
“ Copyright,” says Caldwell “ is not a right of property
such as a man has to his watch. ... A great deal of fuss is
made about copyright music, as if it were some superior
article. The fact is, a boy in the street may string to-
gether a few bars of music, and register his manuscript
at Stationers’ Hall,” &c., &c. Caldwell’s sympathy with
the pirates of property in music doesn’t extend to pirates
of calico printing designs, of course. He holds any num-
ber of valuable patents and trades-marks, and a portion of
his bloated wealth is devoted to a fund for the protection
of his precious Caldwellian interests. The difference
between a new music copyright and a Caldwell calico
copyright is that the one is intended to protect the work
of a producer, whilst the other stringently protects the
purchase of a capitalist.
“ The Creole,” a little play produced at the Haymarket
(London) Theatre, the other week, gives Miss Alice Craw-
ford, late of Australia, a chance to score a big success
with her eloquent speaking tones. She plays the heroine
—Josephine—pleading, unseen, for reconciliation with her
ruffled Buonaparte. One critic wrote of Alice Crawford’s
effort: “ Although she acted with the door between her
and Napoleon until the last moment of the piece, she
spoke her lines always with feeling, and there was the
ring of sincerity in her voice. It was the one touch of
nature in the acting of the little piece.” The Bendigo
girl graduated for the stage as a recitress, and in the art
of elocuting unaffectedly she can give points to the ave-
rage clever actress, whose talk would sound purely theatri-
cal if she were required to speak a piece on a cold plat-
form. It was on the bare boards of Melbourne Town Hall
that Alice Crawford started her professional career.
“ Melb.” : The drop curtain once more appears at the
Bijou as the background for variety items. It is a finely
painted scene at Arden Forest, by Spong, with little
figures of Touchstone and Audrey. The furled-up drop
of the Princess’s is Venice by G. Gordon. He went there
to sketch for the scenery in the Bancroft production of
the “Merchant of Venice.” The long disused Theatre
Boyal drop is by Brunton. That of Her Majesty’s is a
view of the Melbourne Exhibition. There were four
beautiful drops by Hennings, in succession, at the Boyal:
“ Shakspeare’s House,” “ Bacchus and Ariadne,” “ Lake
Maggiore,” and “Thespians Leaving Deserted Greece."
The Opera House had Habbe’s copy of his drop at the
Sydney Victoria—a Gondola and Palace scene.
“ Melroyd ’’: Hans, the cornet player, related his
troubles t’other day. “ I moost dell you,” he said, “dat
tem gottam Tagoes dey sboil mein beeziness. Yah!
Von, doo, dree day ago I go blay side-out Meesder
Bafferdy’s bub, an’ find de tarn Tagoes vos alretty dere
mit de harp an’ feedle. Dey vos stan’ ad de bar-door, an’
blay de ‘Serenata.’ Dey vos make me some mad, so I
go to de side-door, an’ I plow de 1 Sweede Leedle Sham-
rog ’ down mit de bassage. Dem hoogly, sly Tagoes den
blay de ‘ Vearin’ mid de Green.’ Dey vos make me
some more madder, so I go inside te tarn passage, an’
blay mit spiridoso de ‘ Boy-in-de-Vater.’ Ach, mein
Gott 1 Meesder Bafferdy he roosh oud, an’ trow de
sbiddoon ad me. ‘ Vot mit de ’ell you mean,’ he shout,
‘ makin’ all de tam noise.’ He roosh me mit de broom,
an’ I run —vot you gall it—leather-mit-’ell long de
streed. Dem tam Tagoes dey blay de ‘ Serenata ’ on de
nex’ gorner, an’ laff ad me. Yah, I vos an’ old Sherman
soldier, mein friendt, an’ I lofe your loovely goontrie
some. Dake mit mein advice, an’ alvays vote some vor
de snow-vite Hoostralia. Yah t ”
In America, “Mfr.” is short for “manu-
facturer ; in Australia, for “ malefactor.” Aus-
tralia adopted the abbreviation because it has
been taught by its importing press that the two
are the same person.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
BROKEN HILL CUP, Broken Hill, N.S.W., July 19
ADELAIDE G. N. HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S.A., August 12-
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 11
DEMONSTRATION HANDICAP, Canterbury Park, N.S.W., October 2
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d m on each 10s . Ticket . Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Bee, 3d. per Parcel.
1
KEEP YOUR
BILLS DOWN
By
Purchasing
YOUR CLOTHING
FROM
Cincoln, Stuart
$ Co.
eta.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
No Matter Where
you live and with no more
trouble than the writing of
a letter you can through
the Post Office bring our
Warehouse to your door.
FAMOUS
Two Guinea
(TO MEASURE) Suits
Write for Patterns and
Self-measure FORMS.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOE
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS.
A Sydney Stock and Share Broker expresses
Gratitude and Appreciation of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
It proved a most effective remedy for a
severe attack of Bronchitis.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I lately had a severe
attack of Bronchitis, and, acting on the advice of a friend,
obtained a supply of your Bronchitis Cure. lam pleased
to inform you it has proved a most effective remedy,
causing me to feel grateful to you for furnishing such a
valuable medicine to the public. May you meet with one
success you so well deserve. I place this commun ca-
tion at vour service, and remain, Dear Sir, Yours
faithfully, HENRY FRENCH,
Stock and Share Broker, 93 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ASTHMA.
A Five Tears case.
At times very bad indeed.
Quickly and completely Cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis and Asthma Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —For five or six years I was
troubled with asthma, at times very bad indeed. 1 was
very ill just after Christmas, so sent to the local chemist
for a bottle of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I took
the first dose on going to bed, and was not troubled that
night. I finished the medicine, and have not had a
touch of the asthma since. I tell everyone about it.
M. MURRAY.
Postmistress, Pampoolah, Manning River, N.S.W.
HAY ASTHMA.
A Severe Attack Relieved in Ten Minutes
by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
The Effect was Wonderful.
Mr. W. G. Hearne Dear Sir, —About three weeks ago,
while in the vicinity of musty chaff, I gradually felt
a difficulty to breathe. My nose began to run, and to all
appearances I was developing a severe attack of Bron-
chitis or Asthma. At last I could stand it no longer. I
then tried your Bronchitis Cure, and its effect was
wonderful. In less than ten minutes I was all right
again. Such a result, and so quick, astounded me.
This is no exaggeration, I am pleased to say.—Yours
truly, S. H. MAYO, Meredith, Victoria.
BiiONCHiriS and ASTHMA.
A Sydney Resident Suffered. for Over Sixty
Years.
So Bad He Dared Not Stir.
Relieved in a Few Minutes by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Would Give £5O for the Same Benefit rather
than Suffer.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Friend, —Chronic Bronchitis I had from birth, and
I am now 66 years old. Some time back I contracted
Asthma, and for months I was so bad that any remedy
that had previously relieved smothering' was of no use to
me. I was so bad that I dared not stir, and spent the
worst night I ever had. When, in a conversation, Mr.
Marsh, J.P., of Balmain, Sydney, kindly told me that a
friend of his was using- your Bronchitis Cure, and that it
was good. So my sister bought me a bottle of it, and in
a few minutes after taking the first dose I could breathe a
little. The next day I was better, and kept getting better
every day. To-day lam better than I have been for the
last seven years. I took the medicine as directed, six
bottles, and it cost me less than £l. I would give £5O for
the same benefit rather than suffer as I did. Please make
what use of this letter you think fit. If by so doing it
would only cause one to get rid of this fearful complaint.
—Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM CANHAM,
108 Curtis Road, Balmain, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Its Efficacy in chest complaints testified to
by a Grateful Victorian.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in
adding my testimony in praise of your invaluable Bron-
chitis Cure. I have used it for the last three or four years,
and its efficafcy I have fully proved in common colds,
severe colds, croupy coughs, and other similar chest com-
plaints. I have given it to infants a few weeks old, young
children and adults of all ages, and have never known it
to fail in relieving at once, and rapidly effecting a cure
with a few doses. I have recommended it to many of my
friends, and they have fully proved its wonderful curative
properties. I feel very grateful to you for a chest medi-
cine so valuable, and cheap enough to be available to any-
one. Trusting its present popularity and sales will be
doubled, I am, yours very gratefullv,
EDWARD JONES,
Mount Bruno, Mokoan, via Glenrowan, Vic.
Doctor
BRONCHITIS-
An English Lady so ill that the
held out no hope.
Was given Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and it
effected a complete recovery.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir.—Not long- since I had occasion
to visit the old country, and before leaving Mellmrne pur-
chased a bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, winch I took
with me. When I arrived in Leeds I found that my niece,
Miss C. Matthews, was suffering from a very severe attack
of Bronchitis, in fact, she was so bad that the family doctor
held out no hope of her recovery. She was then given
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure according to the direction on
the label, and I am very pleased to say that it effected a
complete cure. R. J. MATTHEWS,
c/o Allan <& Co., Collins-st., Melbourne.
ASTHMA.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Sir, —I am thankful to say that the medicine you sent
for asthma has had a wonderful effect. I have not taken
all the Bronchitis Cure, as I did not need it ; therefore
I send you my hearty good wishes for your future success.
I myself will, for the benefit of others, make it known to
all I know. lam 73 years of age.—Yours truly,
JOHN BRAY,
Alliance-street, Clunes, Victoria.
BRONCHO-PNEUMONIA.
Two Severe Cases cured by One Bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward without
delay another small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. The
bottle I had from you has cured two of my children, but I
do not feel safe without it in the house. I have also re-
commended it to my friends. I lost a fine little girl, three
years of age, from influenza and Broncho-Pneumonia. I
really believe if I had had your medicine my child would
not have died, for the other two, a boy five years old, and
a baby 8 months old, were suffering exactly in the same
way, and it acted like magic on them ; in fact, a small
bottleful cured both of them ; so trusting you will forward
it without delay—l am, yours most gratefully,
(Mrs.) E. 1). WARD.
Cassilis, via Swift’s Creek, Gippsland, Vic.
A Queensland Sufferer from Bronchitis.
Seventy-two years of age, weak and
Wasted.
The Doctor considered it a hopeless case.
Cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I beg leave to draw your
attention to a remarkable Cure of Bronchitis, which disease
attacked me last May. It was looked upon by the doctor
as a hopeless case. In such an extremity I naturally
looked about for something- to try. I thought it a hard
thing, after 72 years’ experience of the ups and downs of
this life, to die in such an inglorious manner ; besides, I
was very poor in flesh, and thin, and this stimulated me
to make an effort for recovery, if only to improve my con-
dition. I saw your Bronchitis Cure advertised", and
thought I would give it a trial, so I sent to W. H. Harris,
chemist, Gill-street, Charters Towers, and got a small
bottle of it. I had scarcely finished it when I gave up all
thought of leaving my wife a widow, and hopefully looked
forwarded to many more delightful days of up and downs,
principally downs. The second small bottle caused the
Bronchitis and me to part company, greatly to its regret,
I opine. The third bottle stood me on my legs to receive
the congratulations of my friends.
I have been a resident of Charters Towers for 30 years,
and, being gifted with the spirit of good have
not the least objection to you making any use of this
testimonial you think proper, as a means of relieving
others similarly situated to myself.
JOHN SHEPHERD,
Queenton, Charters Towers, Queensland.
Relieved by one dose of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and cured by two bottles.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony
to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for nine months, and the cough was so dis-
tressingly bad at nights, I was obliged to get up and sit
by the fire. I had medical advice, and tried other
remedies, without avail. I tried yours, and never had a
fit of coughing after taking the first dose, and though I
have had but two bottles, I feel I am a different man, and
the cough has vanished. You may depend upon my
making known the efficacy of your wonderful remedy to
anyone I see afflicted.—Yours faithfully,
JAMES ASTBURY,
Dergholm, Victoria.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE YENDOES, AND BY THE PKOPEIETOK,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branoh depot- Q^ C e ; jfg, 5 > First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


SUNLIGHT SOAP
has a habit of
washing clothes well.
Y
HAS A HABIT OF
CLEANING WINDOWS
LIKE TO CRYSTAL.
Visitors to the Old Coravtry
BAILEYS i§
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUT// KENS/NGTON,
EON DON. S.IV.
THE NEW LOUNGE: ONE OF THE FINEST IN LONDON
self-coi*fcaii\.e<l suites.
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
11 m
PROMPTLY BANISHED.
CHILBLAINS, which are a modified form of frost-bite, causing an itching,
irritable, inflamed condition of the hands and feet, are found to yield to
thorough applications of Zam-Buk. Persons weakened by disease and
those who have a rheumatic constitution are more liable to have chil-
blains ; and for such the use of Zam-Buk at
the outset of the season is recommended as a
precautionary step. The efficacy of Zam-Buk
in such cases is illustrated in the following :
Mr. William Bacon, of Yerner-street, Goulburn,
N.S. W., says:—“During the winter
we experience very cold, frosty
weather in Goulburn, and nurse the
fire very closely, and the inevitable
result is chilblains. I suffer con-
siderably in this respect, having
experienced chilblains on the feet,
hands, and ears. I tried many
ointments and salves in the hope
of driving out the irritation, but
with scant success. Last winter I
applied Zam-Buk, and with won-
derful results. The first applica-
tion drove out the irritation and soothed the chilblains considerably.”
ZAM-BUK, the Great Healer, is a SPEEDY CURE for PILES, ECZEMA,
BOILS, RUNNING SORES, SORE LEGS, RINGWORM, RHEUMATISM, LUM-
BAGO, SCIATICA, etc. As an EMBROCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES and
TENDONS, ZAM-BUK, rubbed well into the parts affected, is UNEQUALLED. As a
HOUSEHOLD BALM for CUTS, BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, BLACK-
HEADS, SORE THROAT, SORE CHEST, CHAPPED HANDS, CHILBLAINS,
SORE FEET, and RASH, ZAM-BUK is INVALUABLE. Obtainable from all
Medicine Vendors at 1/6, or 3/6 FAMILY SIZE (containing nearly four times the
quantity), or from THE ZAM-BUK CO., 39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Send a
penny stamp for FREE SAMPLE POT.
T 3
3
3’
□
1
r
Treasure Island.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MOON islands out in the shimmering splendor
Of the Queen moon’s pathway of white
sphere fire,
Moon shadows touching a dream world tender !
O, Treasure Island ! O heart’s desire !
Were you but a dream with a dream’s surrender
Of light and laughter that must expire ?
A fate-flung phantom out in the distance,
A rose in the grayness of life’s gray chart; ?
Still I wrestle with fiends in a fool’s resistance.
O Treasure Island ! my restless heart
Craves thee again with a fierce insistence !
And we are drifting apart—apart!
Lord of the heights, which thy suns illumine !
Rifted with light that has blessed and banned,
Thou hast chained our spirits in pathways human,
And hedged our lives with unseen hand ;
Shall that which has fashioned man and woman
Hear us, and pity and understand ?
O Treasure Island ! shall Time’s dividing
Quench the white lustre of moons gone by ?
Is there no land of a great abiding
For beacons that beckoned from lip and eye ?
No love-stars still in the heavens riding
When the hills are dust and the seas are dry?
Yet who shall say ! while the dead are sleeping
And fettered souls in the distance fret,
If this be the end of our night of weeping !
We dream it may be, and yet! and yet !
If one should waken with pulses leaping
For glad remembrance—and one forget!
Nay, it is written, the pale years fleeing
Like a train of ghosts to the far away,
Bear all our treasures beyond our seeing,
And the earth-heart yawns for the senseless clay
That has loved and suffered and spent its being
Like the swift, sweet breath of a summer day !
But Treasure Island, my heart is yearning,
For life’s full measure, and it is o’er ;
And I am hungered and sick with learning
The weary wisdom of world-old lore.
This is the end ! God ! the slow sands turning,
And then the darkness—for evermore !
tas.
SPHINE.
Brown Brethren.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HE money that I had intended to leave
to the South Sea Mission Fund will go
towards the Home for Decayed Australian
Editors. I have seen my Brown Brethren.
w * * *
For 20 years past on the island of Aneityum, in
the New Hebrides, a missionary and his wife have
been working strenuously to convert the natives.
At one time, before these apostles arrived,
Aneityum supported a population of over 8000.
That was in the wicked old days of tribal wars
and cannibalism. The latest census shows a
population of 490, or thereabouts. They have a
sullen, obsolete Presbyterian look, and they wear
short trousers that do not fit them. The joy of
living has gone out of their bones. I draw no
inference. I merely give the facts as they were
given to me by the wife of the missionary. She
is a Scotchwoman of the type that is firmly con-
vinced—at odd times when it thinks of things
profane—that Robert Burns wrote Shakspeare.
“ But do you never take a holiday, Madam ?”
“ I was in Scotland a year or two ago, but my
old friends were dead, or had gone away, or had
forgotten me. And so I was glad to get Home
again. ”
Home was this forlorn southernmost Island of
the New Hebrides, with its dwindling population
of black Presbyterians in short pants.
“ And are you never dissatisfied ? ”
“ Sometimes. But we have our work to do.”
I thought this a fair example of cheerful uncon-
scious martyrdom until I saw the sallow-faced,
lank-haired, quinine-loaded Catholic missionaries
in Port Vila and in Rica Sura. Mere wisps of
men, but sublime enthusiasts.
I talked with missionaries of every denomina-
tion —Roman Catholics, Presbyterians, Wes-
leyans. They all agreed in the statement that
the adult native has the kind of soul that cannot
be saved to any profitable extent. A promise that
he will not eat his brother too frequently, and will
attend Mass regularly, is all that the R.C. mis-
sionaries expect from him. The Anglicans teach
him to sing the hymns of Bishop Heber and other
sacred writers. To hear him under the sweltering
Solomon Island sun chanting, in his plaintive
voice, “ Greenland’s Icy Mountains ” is a pleasure
that would be highly appreciated by Mr. W. S.
Gilbert. The Presbyterians and Wesleyans per-
suade him to add a few inches to the length of his
lava-lava, and to keep the Church well supplied
with arrowroot, to be sold in England at pious
bazaars.
* * * •
“We have to catch them young,” is what all the
missionaries say. The grown-up generation will
not give up its secret faith in little Jew-faced
wooden gods that make fine weather and good
fishing when earnestly appealed to, or assaulted.
It is also satisfied with its own kind of devils—
beings of grim humor, who fall upon you from the
tops of trees, and bite pieces out of your shoulder
if you have been a sinner. The Christian Deity
who “lives alonga hell” does not seem to it to be an
improvement. And somehow there appears to be
(to me at any rate) a show of reason on the part of
these benighted Eeathens. If I lived on a small
strip of beach, with a dark, mysterious, sodden
jungle behind me, I think it quite likely that I
would find some religious solace in worshipping
these little crazy grotesque timber gods. They
look so natural and so suitable to the surround-
ings.
* * * •
In most of the islands the natives believe in a
Good Spirit and an Evil Spirit. The former
means well in a vague, general way, but is lazy
and does not trouble himself much about human
affairs; therefore he is neither feared nor loved.
The idea of loving a god is, indeed, inconceivable
by the untutored native mind. The Evil Spirit is
worshipped, because he is übiquitous and takes
an active, practical interest in the everyday lives
and occupations of men. He must be propitiated,
or he will blight the plantations or spoil the fish-
ing. The offering most acceptable to him is
something that was alive and is dead. Ur. Wilson,
the Anglican Bishop of Melanesia, informed me
that he once saw a hundred heads in a canoe.
They were brought by a war-party, and were to
be placed in the Canoe House as votive offerings
to the Fish God, to induce that sullen deity to be
liberal in the matter of fish.
* * * *
But the real basis of indigenous Island Religion
is Ghost-worship. All native ghosts are malevo-
lent. A man while in the flesh may be a cheerful
creature, full of the milk of human kindness, but
when he turns into a ghost his nature changes for
the worse, not by degrees, but immediately. He
is then at war with the living, and capable of any
crime. Jealousy seems to be the real cause of this
sudden change of character. Ghosts have a dim,
gloomy existence, which is merely a shadow of
their former life. They fish and fight and culti-
vate plantations, wherein yams and taro grow;
but the fighting is unreal and ineffective, the fish
they catch and the yams and taro they grow are
shadows without substance. Hence their envy of
the living and desire to injure them. It is only
by ceaseless vigilance and regular propitiation
that the living are able to hold their own at all.
This will perhaps explain why the first white men
who landed on the Islands were attacked by the
natives with so much ferocity. The natives
believed them to be ghosts.
Here and there, scattered amongst the Solo-
mons and the Floridas, are little islands upon
which the natives will not live, or even set foot.
These islands are the peculiar property of the
ghosts. On them they have their plantations and
their villages. If a native lands upon one of these
sacred spots he dies soon afterwards, or something
evil happens to him.
The Anglican missionaries made a brave attempt
to knock the bottom out of this superstition by
establishing their headquarters on Scioto, one of
the most celebrated of these ghost islands. I was
there, and saw a pretty little church, but no con-
gregation. In the cemetery adjoining, I counted
thirty-three graves. Here are buried five white
women, two wives of missionaries amongst them.
The other graves contain the remains of native
teachers and converts. In the opinion of the
neighboring heathen this place is now a more
terrible ghost island than it was before. Possibly
the existence of an evil-smelling swamp behind
the little hill upon which the mission houses are
built may have something to do with the sinister
reputation of Scioto. But then there are swamps
behind almost every little hill in every little island
in the Solomons and the Floridas. Some ad-
ditional explanation seems necessary. If I had to
live in those parts I would not make my camp
upon a ghost island.
* * * »
There are secret societies—called Tamate in the
Solomons, Matabalo in the Floridas. The mem-
bers of these societies are chiefs and priests. On
certain occasions they dress themselves up as
ghosts—according to the native idea of what
ghosts look like. They wear hats twelve feet
Eigh and made of grass, and rush through the
village shaking bags filled with human bones.
When this occurs the village is said to be closed.
The inhabitants keep within their houses, and
close their eyes and tremble. If one of them
should, by unlucky chance, behold this weird,
tall-hatted procession, he will die within the
year—unless he can show good cause to the con-
trary in pigs or other currency.
* * * *
I asked a leading missionary what, in his
opinion, the result would be if, after being con-
verted, the natives of the islands were left
entirely to themselves for a generation or two.
He replied that he believed they would evolve a
sort of mongrel Christianity of their own, as the
Abyssinians did, but on a lower scale. And every
island would have its own home-made religion,
which would be the only true and genuine creed—
and would see that it was adopted by every other
island, smaller than itself, or know the reason
why. That is the native idea of conversion.
The same missionary, who has lived for years in
the Islands, informed me that in his talks with
the natives he heard, at times, vague references
made to spirits that were neither devils nor ghosts,
but independent beings who interfere little, if at
all, with the affairs of men. He seemed to think
that in these vague references he had discovered
traces of a higher and more ancient, but almost
obsolete, religion. But he could never get clear
replies upon the subject, probably because the
natives have no longer any clear ideas themselves
with regard to it.
The chiefs are the last to come into the fold
when the inhabitants of an island, or a village,
are converted. There is no such thing as heredi-
tary rank in the Solomons, but the Richest Men
are chiefs by courtesy. The following diagram
will, when explained, show the reason why the
Rich do not give a warm welcome to the mission-
aries :
The above may be imagined to be the Village Club
House divided into compartments. All males
who have attained a certain age are entitled to sit
and eat in the first compartment. They must pay
before being allowed to eat in the next compart-
ment, and pay again—the fee increasing as they
ascend —when they wish to enter the one next to
that, and so on. The fees are paid in pigs. It
costs over 100 pigs to get into the last
and most select compartment. A man seldom
arrives there until he is old, and has
amassed wealth, and the Wisdom which con-
sists of keeping Things As They Are. The
top compartment is, in fact, the native House of
Lords, or Legislative Council, with this additional
advantage —it collects the admission fees from the
compartments below it. When the missionaries
got a firm grip on a village, they started to level
downwards, and insisted on the pig-proud mem-
bers of the Upper Chamber eating their way
down from compartment to compartment until
they found themselves messing with the common,
pigless proletariat. This is why the chiefs are
not warm admirers of the new religion. At pre-
sent, in some mission villages, even the women
are allowed to eat with the men—and the sky does
not fall, or the ghosts or devils devour them, both
of which results would most assuredly have fol-
lowed such a sacrilege a few years ago.
These children of Nature have no idea of Love
as we understand it. No real children of Nature
have, for that matter. One of the hardest tasks
the missionaries had with their male converts was
to make them believe that women should be loved
for their own sake, and courted as equals. They—
the male natives—considered this a sort of white
man’a madness. There is no romance among
them. When a young man wants a wife he says
to her father, “ How much?” If the price is not
too high he pays it, and takes away the goods.
That ends the matter. In the island of Ngela
women were, for some reason or other—l think
because the inhabitants used to believe in a Female
Creator—so exceptionally well thought of, and so
highly valued, that only the most prosperous young
men could afford to buy wives. The price of a chief’s
daughter was, I think, fifty strings of shell money,
the price of the daughter of a commoner thirty
strings. The young men complained to Bishop
Wilson and the Resident Commissioner, and a
meeting of leading elders was called. The result
was that the prices were reduced about one-half.
When the bishop was leaving the island not one
of the unmarried women came down to the beach
to bid him good-bye. They resented bitterly the
lowering of their value.
I asked little Captain Burns, who used to con-
vey labor to Queensland, what he thought of his
brown brethren. “There used to be £2O a head
in the brutes,” he replied, “but there’s nothing
in them now.”
I believe Captain Burns to h© a good judge of
human nature.
Viotob
J. DALEY.
Another case with its root in Tyson’s
money is getting ready for N.S.W. Supreme
Court. If old James could see where his coin is
going to he would feel that he had not lived in
vain.


WEAK, ACHING
BACKS.
Aclie ! Ache ! Ache ! Takes all the
life, all the energy, out of you.
Makes you miserable. There is a
danger in it, too. Neglect the
warning of a bad back, you ne-
glect an appeal from the kidneys.
When the back is bad —when
it’s lame or weak
—when it aches
—when it's tired,
the kidneys are
sick demand
attention.
Doan’s
Backache
Kidney PilSs
relieve quickly
the aches and
pains and weak-
ness of a bad
back. Ifyoufail
to help the kid-
Si'
n.
y
i
neys in time, Diabetes, Dropsy, Bright’s Disease, are sure
to follow. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are endorsed by
friends and neighbors, by people you know.
You think Backache comes from fatigue. Sometimes it does. But,
when it comes again and again , it is Kidneyache. The kidneys lie under the
small of the back, and a pain in the kidneys is felt in the small of the back.
SYDNEY WOnAN SUFFERED WITH BACKACHE AND
KIDNEY TROUBLE.
Mrs. M. Mullins, 49 Hunter-street, this City, says:—“For about three
years I suffered with kidney derangement. The worst symptom was a constant
backache, which became more painful whenever I stooped much. I tried many
remedies for this complaint; but the results were anything but beneficiai.
However, Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills permanently cured me. When I say
‘ cured,’ I mean that it is over twelve months since I used these pills, and I’ve
had no return of the old pain. I have advised many people to use Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and some have obtained very good results from their use.”
FOUR TEARS CURED.
Mrs. Mullins informs us that she is still well. She says : —“I have never
had a sign of the complaint since. They are splendid Pills, and have made a
great difference in my health. My permanent cure, for it is over five years
since I used the Pills, speaks for itself.”
Are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per Box (six boxes
15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Fitt-street, Sydney.
\\
I
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
ITCHING PILES CURED.
Mr. Edgar Wood, Engineer, Randwick
Tram, whose private address is 23 Young-
street, Redfern, says : “For seventeen years
I suffered with itching and protruding Piles.
During that time I was treated by several
well-known Sydney doctors; I also tried
chemists’ prescriptions and remedies adver-
tised to cure this complaint; but nothing
gave me the slightest relief. The irritation
was so great that it caused me annoyance and
inconvenience during the day, and kept me
awake for hours at night. I almost despaired
of ever getting anything to relieve me, as I
had experienced so many failures. How-
ever, I saw an article in the paper stating
that Doan’s Ointment had cured a Sydney
man who had suffered for twenty years with
this complaint. lat once got the Ointment,
and I am pleased to tell you that the first
application gave me relief. I continued
using it, and am now perfectly cured, and
this means a lot to me, and is wonderful,
considering I had been afflicted for 17 years.
Since my cure I have recommended Doan’s
Ointment to other sufferers, and I will
always do so. I wish you to publish par-
ticulars of my cure for the benefit of other
sufferers who do not know the value of
Doan’s Ointment.”
ECZEMA CUEED.
Mr. H. Watson, Alfred-street, Annandale,
this city, says:—“A couple of years ago I
had eczema break out very badly on my
chest. It was shortly after a trip I took to
India with horses, where I contracted fever,
the eczema seeming to me to be the result of
this sickness. It started severely, and spread
rapidly, until I was in such a bad state that
the irritation nearly drove me mad. When
I went to bed at night my sufferings were
worse, and it would be nearly morning before
I could get to sleep. A fellow I know ad-
vised me to get Doan’s Ointment, saying that
he had heard of great results gained by using
this preparation. I thought it a good idea, and
obtained a pot. The first application was
cooling, and the second soothed the itch, and
after tnat I got along splendidly ; every time
I applied the ointment there was a marked
improvement, until I was quite cured.
Within a month from the first time I used
the ointment, not one trace of the ailment
remained. lam twelve months cured now.
Doan’s Ointment is a splendid preparation
for eczema, skin irritation, and to take in-
flammation from the skin, and to heal.’’
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all diseases
of the skin, eczema, piles, hives, insect bites,
chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe, and very
effective. Very often two or three pots have
cured chronic cases, which have resisted
other treatment for years.
Doan's Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d.
pot, or wilt be posted on receipt ot price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
Pitt-street , Sydney , N.S. W*
REMEMBER THE NAME-DOAN’S.
A Gassy Tale.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A CHEMIST once, in times long past,
By bottles quite surrounded,
With thought and labor hard and
vast,
And calculations deep, at last
A temp’ranee drink compounded.
It was a most delicious brew,
It fizzed and madly spluttered.
The gases from it rushed and flew.
The foam leaped up and rolled and blew.
“ Ah-ha ! ” the chemist muttered.
“ At last—at last, my fortune’s made ! ”
Triumphant, grave, and placid
A smile upon his features played,
As round his den he slowly strayed
And corked up all his acid.
“ The Methodists of Sabbath schools
Who gaze at things bucolic—
Who sit and giggle on long stools,
And play round games with lots of rules,
And shun drinks alcoholic,
“ In summer to the beach they’ll fly
With this good tipple laden ;
And arm-in-arm they’ll wander by,
And sip and kiss, and sip and sigh—
Each youthlet with his maiden.”
Six months elapse. A joyous band
In vans, with horses snorting,
Comes rolling by thro’ sun and sand
(“ Will you behave !” “Let go my hand !”)
For all are busy courting.
Beneath the seats —all laid in rows
The cordials are reclining ;
There, too, the sandwiches repose.
Delicious smells salute the nose
And make one think of dining.
At last upon the sunlit strand
They-come, and, after eating,
They grab each other by the hand,
And screech. (’Tis hard to understand
The joy they take in bleating.)
Fiercer and fiercer grows the glare,
The sea has scarce a ripple.
Out in the sun —no shade is there —
The picnickers—too hot to care —
Lap up the gassy tipple.
All silent are the simple ones
Out in the sunshine lying.
Hark ! How the echo rolls and runs !
Is it the boom of distant gun 3
The nation’s foes defying ?
But what is this ? The people race
And scream—they seem excited.
Terror is writ on every face.
What are these bangs that shake the place ?
And why are all affrighted ?
“ Look out t” they yell—the flying crowd
As from a bomb that’s loaded,
Rushing they leave a deacon proud,
A fizz—a flash —and clear and loud—
A bang I—he has exploded!
High in the blue a top-hat soars,
A hymn-book follows after;
And all around are screams and roars.
A bang !—a splash—a bang ! —a pause—
And dreadful madman’s laughter.
Louder and louder grows the noise,
Like forts in action roaring ;
And, from the heavens, bits of boys
Burnt clothes and sandwiches and toys
In cataracts come pouring.
'Tis done. Of all those happy souls
Among the wreckage busy
One delves among the sausage rolls.
(They’re dangerous—those glowing co ils.
Look —bang I Alas, where is he?)
His saintly coat-tails lash the sun,
(O ! poor inflated mortal!)
His toil down here on earth is done,
For, like a shell from out a gun,
He flies through Heaven’s portal.
nc.
KODAK.
State Kids.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LOOKING back over long years (I am
28), the main thing I seem to remember
about the places I have Worked are State
kids. Somehow, they seem to have been with me
wherever I have sojourned.
The first place I remember seeing them was at
Picton. I was serving my time to the building
trade, and we were doing a Government job there.
Hard by was an undersized dairy farm, run by a
hungry couple and four hungrier State kids.
When the woman wasn’t hunting them about the
house, the man would be belting them in the pad-
dock, Swede turnips were cheap that year; it
was there I learnt to hate the smell of them. Pour
times a day the big copper set up outside foamed
over with them. We thought it was for the pigs,
till we saw the nippers lined up round it with
plates. After a week we moved our camp to the
other side of the job. It took a very strong wind
to put us off our feed there. On the leeward side,
even on calm days, the smell used to follow us
about like a dog. After a month of it, the fore-
man reckoned he’d write to the Government; said
the kids used to wake him up jabbering Scandin-
avian in their and he couldn’t stand it.
When the man wasi/t chasing the kids about, he
would be loafing around in our way, and explain-
ing “Dairy farmin’ don’t pay ; an’ as fer the
kids, there’s nothin’ in ’em at five bob er week.”
The next lot I remember were at Guildford,
near GraViville. Everyone round there had them
as a sort of spec. They used to take them round
to each other’s places to compare. The top-
notcher, I remember, was tongue-tied. My sister
was district visitor, and used to give two days’
notice ahead, so we were pretty popular. The
people had little go-carts for them, and it was
wonderful what loads they would haul from the
station. A neighbor of ours held the record ; his
team of three State kids brought a full-sized
spring-mattress two miles over soft roads in an
hour. Some new arrivals burst the show up.
Another neighbor, whose yard joined theirs, used
to attend the hen sales at Parramatta every week.
As usual, he had chained his State kid up to the
kennel to keep him out of mischief, after letting
the dog loose to mind the yard. The new-comer’s
wife happened to see him there (it was the top-
notcher, by the way), and, when her husband c*- >e
home, made him report to the police. They . d
an inquiry, and nearly all of us lost our nippers
over it. The new-comers had to leave the district
after that.
The next place I remember them I was fixing
up a public school near Campbelltown. The mis-
tress had four, to keep the attendance up.
One was fair, one was red-headed ; the next was a
brindle (quarter Chow, quarter Cingalese), and the
fourth a nigger. He was the best of the lot; the
others were born liars and thieves. About once a
month they used to bolt for Sydney, with some
neighbor’s horse and sulky. The mistress would
wire down and generally pick them up in Liver-
pool lock-up. They ruined her buggy horse one
day when she left them at home by themselves.
They invented a rope bridle and bag saddle, and
double-banked it round the paddock in turns till
it fell down. It was never any good afterwards.
I saw another with a little Welshman on the
Bellinger. Any one who has ever worked for a
Welsh cocky will know the sort he was. The kid
was just big enough to hit back when I was there.
The Welshman was only game to belt him when
he had him in a corner, or stun him with a stone
on the ear when the boy wasn’t looking. At
last the boy fired the humpy when his boss was
away ploughing in the corn-paddock, and hit out
for the Macleay.
• * * *
Where I am Working now there are three
beauties. Two are brothers, and have an unre-
liable pedigree, whilst the third, who has not long
come, has been on the State all his life. Appa-
rently no one owns him or knows anything about
him; he doesn’t even know his own age. He
had been with some storekeepers on the South
Coast before we got him, and was rather superior
when he came. The other two soon knocked that
out of him. His name, he told them haughtily,
was Bertie Norman Cowper Salt. Cowper took
their fancy ; so he was promptly branded Cowpup.
I don’t mind confessing that I was deceived in
Cowpup. On first acquaintance I pitied him, he
seemed so miserable. He is squat and thick set,
and fat with an oily flabbiness. The large, watery
grey eyes are always upturned, as if in mute pro-
test, to match his little buttony nose; his mouth
resembles a gash in a pound of steak. No one has
ever seen him walk or run. He has two paces—a
slow, crab-crawl when at work, and a peculiar
three-cornered sidle when approaching anything
he is doubtful of, or when he is being called up for
an explanation. Obviously he hates the latter
process; it always ends the same way.
“ Jim-mee, come here ! ” screams his missus.
“Yes, ma’am,” squeals Cowpup sidling up at
an angle of 45 degrees, which leaves him a line of
retreat through the kitchen door.
“ What d’ye mean by not scrubbing the kitchen
when I told you ? ” she demands wrathfully.
“I did scrub it,” Cowpup bleats, sidling off to
60 degrees as she advances towards him.
“You did not! ” she screams excitedly. “ Here,
don’t run away like that. Come here ” —with her
right hand behind her back.
Cowpup breathes hard, and sidles in a wide
circle, aiming at the mangle in the corner, behind
which he just fit 3. His dull eyes light up with a
steely gleam ; he keeps them fixed on his assailant
after the manner of a skilful boxer.
She closes, waving a piece of old cart trace.
Cowpup, with a shrill yelp, dives under her arm
to his haven. The trace rises and falls whilst he
moans loudly. After many strokes, she discovers
she has been belting the leg of the mangle.
Savage as a meat-axe, she grabs him by one arm,
and drags at him strongly to get him in the open.
Cowpup, snorting and yelping alternately, clings
to the other leg of the mangle.
“ Come out where I can get a fair hit at you,”
she shouts. “You’d better come out. ”
Cowpup thinks otherwise; when, his strength
failing, he is detached and brought out, the missus
has only breath left for a couple of hits. He
sidles away into the yard, yelling. I noticed him
smiling greasily to himself ten minutes after,
though, by the wood-heap.
At first, Cowpup took a great interest in me,
and used to bring me all the bent nails and rusty
screws he could find. I foolishly gave him three-
pence at the end of the week, after which he
followed me about with doglike devotion—for more
threepences. He used to whine hymns to me as I
worked, and mournfully told me his troubles.
One of them is about a girl. The other boys, he
tells me, are utterly bad ; “they swear, ’n’ won’t
sing hymns, ner nuthin.”
One day last week he confided to me that if
he had sixpence more he could buy a dog, the
“champeen” of the district. I took the hint,
being curious, and he brought it home.
“ Don’t look much,” I told him. “ Looks more
like a meat hound. What’s he good for ? ”
“’E’s the best dorg roun’ ’ere,” objected
Cowpup, tearfully. “’E’ll sneak roun’ the end
of a lorg when ’e sees a ’are asleep, ’n’ shake th’
inside out uv it in less’n three minutes.”
A few days later I heard a terrible combat
being waged down in the bush. A little later
Cowpup sidled up to me in great distress.
“I wuz jes tryin’ me new dorg on ole
Tiger,” he sobbed, “’n’ Tiger’s gorn V killed
him.”
He left weeping, to get a spade for the burial,
and a few stones when Tiger should return.
The missus’s girl insulted Cowpup the other
day, and out him deeply.
“ D’ye know what that boy’ll be w’en ’e grows
up ? ’E’ll be a Wesleen parson.”
I tried Cowpup for a week with me; thought he
would come in handy for running errands. The
first day I only missed nails; the second he had
advanced to bits and moulding planes, so there
wasn’t any third. Instead I borrowed the old
man’s stockwhip, and just as he was sidling away
with my hammer I got him on the rear with the
old Burragorang cut that chops three initials in
one flick.
For the first and, I believe, the only time in his
life Cowpup ran. I ran after him. We were
both about done when we struck the scrub-edge.
He kept wide of me after that, but has been
throwing out hints from a safe distance (40 yards)
that he only wants a shilling to buy a mouth-
organ. The missus has stopped him jumping on
the skillion-iron in the early morning, so he is
getting desperate. He is in disgrace at present,
having been caught boiling settings of high-class
Minorca eggs in the kettle for private consump-
tion. I must knock off writing now; I can hear
Cowpup poking about near my room, and I have
left 2s. 6d. on the mantelpiece.
FALDER.


F tins in the Back
, and Chills. Gives Thanks to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A Medicine
which Does All that is Claimed far if.
Mrs. A. Curtis, of 85 Charles
St., Northcote, Victoria, sends
us her photograph, and says:
“Having used Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla and proved it to be what
is claimed for it, I am in a posi-
tion to say that no better medi-
cine could be found for severe
pains in the back, for which I
used it. I must have caught a
chill, as I was greatly troubled
with aching pains in the back.
I began to take Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla for it, and after a few weeks
I was a new woman. Am now
well, and in much better health
than I have been for a long time,
f or whicli I have to thank Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.”
You may think sometimes that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla does too many things,
cures too many diseases. But f you will stop and reason a moment you will
see just why its power to cure is so great. It is because this medicine acts
so directly upon the blood. When the blood is impure, then the whole body
suffers. You feel weak and exhausted ; you are nervous and discouraged ;
you have aches and pains ; the head throbs and beats ; the skin breaks out
in rashes ; and even the kidneys may become seriously affected. All because
the blood is impure. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla simply purifies and enriches the
blood; and by doing this one thing it removes a multitude of complaints and
diseases.
It was “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla that made Sarsaparilla famous. Be sure to
get the original, genuine kind. Accept no substitutes.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Removes the Cause of Disease.
Correct any Tendency to Constipation by Taking Ayer’s Pills.
Prepared by DR. J. C. ATER 00.. Dowell, Maas.. XT. S. A.
Saddler,
371 George Street,
s-xrnMxriEsisr.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
la the Great .English (Jure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
4o prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lsd. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies,
Many apparently hopeless cases which I have
cure prove my claim to your confidence.
Undeniable Proofs Free.
Or Six Bottles, 31/- (enough for 3 months),
Twelve Bottles, 56/-, arriage paid.
Mb. Gilbert Daub, j a Snow Hill, Hanley,
Staffs , Eng. Id
FITS
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will
surprise and delight you.
ONE OP KANT:
Ravenslhovpe, W.A., S3-9-C4
Have finished the half course, which has effected
a cure. I have no desire for drink, in fact have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
Yours gratefully, R.G.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FREE.
AddVess • „
Will. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S , Eng.
129 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
Q& RI COfcD'sl
esg^** 0^ \,v f £, J
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra
Is. and Is. 6d. . ’
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 4-7 Queen St.,
Melbourne; N.S.W. —Fauldmg & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
"W. G. ZEILIDIRIIDG-IE &c CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 TORE STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodynft.
Every bottle of this well-known
Bemedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BBOfICHfJLTS,
Di ARh.hHKA, <fcc., bears oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
SHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 38 183 d, say*;
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusiou of all
others, I should say Chlobodyn*. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forme
ts best recommendation.”
WEAK MADE STRONG !
OUR Electric Appliance
pours glowing, exhilar-
ating Vitality into you
while you sleep. It Animates
the sluggish circulation,
Stimulates the Brain to
Activity, and fills the body
with Life, Ambition, and
Endurance. It furnishes
the Motive Power that runs
JSPur body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
•vei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energy and Vigor. Catalogue and Price List
Post Free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MEN, DON’T WORRY
After you have tried all other remedies for NERVOUS-
NESS, DEBILITY, etc., as thousands have done before we
CURED them. Let us treat vou, FREE of CHARGE,
for ONE MONTH, with our NEW CONCENTRATED
BOTANIC EXTRACTS, and the BENEFICIAL RESULTS
will surprise you.
Address: Botanic Institute, Victoria
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ism
DEAF
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When OCRED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-dav.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
UOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
!' Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals. Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat. Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath. Cos iveness. Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations. &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be " WORTH A
U UINTA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they net like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the longdost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are "facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beerliam’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
the world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEE CHAM, St Helens , Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Every where, in Boxes, Is ami 2s 9d each.
CARTRIDGES
ARE well known in Australasia. Their steady
advancement in popular favor is due to
their sure fire, uniform and accurate qual-
ties. U.M.C. stamped on a cartridge head is a
guarantee of uniformity. All dealers carry **
U.M.C. cartridges because they sell well and
satisfy their customers.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
There’s SECURITY In
ER
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dos*. Snail Price.
Carter's
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. id.
Pott Free.
A CARD.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., E<n„.,
M.8.C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.F.P.S.G.,
Grierson Bursar and Medallist, University of Edinburgh ; formerly Member of the Royal Medical ‘Society of
Edinburgh ; Late Assistant Demonstrator in Practical Zoology, University of Edinburgh ; Member of the General
Council of the University of Edinburgh, etc., etc. Formerly Medical Superintendent and Visiting Surgeon to
four of Australasia’s leading Hospitals, may be consulted personally or by letter, FREE, at his consulting rooms,
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY,
daily, from 10 to 2, and from 7to 9 p.m. (Sundays, 12 to 1.) He makes no charge for a friendly chat or confi.
dential talk. Being a Consulting Physician in ali Diseases of Men and Women, and a Specialist in all
Private, Nervous, Skin, & Genito-Urinary Complaints.
Patients entrusting themselves to his care have the advice of a Thoroughly Competent and Trustworthy
Physician, who treats all cases at moderate charges, and guarantees a cure in all cases undertaken by him.
Send for Dr. Martin’s book, “ Mind Over Matter,” posted FREE on receipt of six stamps. “ The Diseases of
Men and Women " ready July 10th. Apply at once.
Consultation by Letter—FßEE.
DR. MARTIN. 1.D.. “Elmley House/' 151 Elizabeth-st, City.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)


INDIA RUBBER
HOT WATER BAGS.
Are a necessity in every home.
Splendid in health or sickness.
Retaining the heat for many
hours. Made of best heavy
English Rubber.
LOWEST PRICES:
Size.
lOin. x Sin.
lOin. x 7in.
lOin. x Sin.
/ 12in. x Sin.
12in. x lOin.
PRICE
Without Covers.
6s. 6d. each .
7s. ~
7s. 6d .
Bs. , „
Bs. 6d „
Complete
With Covers.
7s. 3d.
7s. 9d.
Bs. 3d.
9s.
9s. 6d.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
(Late Perdriau and Co.),
MERCHANTS,
270 George Street, Sydney.
OCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
«ro tha
BEST.
8ol»
IT ALL
First-Clasb
Store*
nr Australama.
No. 8160.
1 Blade.
Cocoa Handle - 1j-
BufFalo Handle - 1/6
Stag Handle - - - 1/6
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS..
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Pamphlet 6n INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
'THE
<*s
i
0
am
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Miik, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence ate far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are- so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., LONDON, and 7, Spring St., SYDNEY.
INGERSOLL-SERGEANT ROCK DRILLS.
The Number of Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drilis at work on the Goldfields of
Charters Towers and Ravenswood is ... ... ... ... 162
All other makes ... ... ... ... 33
In other words 83 per cent. of all the Drills in use on these fields are of the Ingersoll-Sergeant type.
Could there be a more conclusive argument as to which is the best Drill on the market ?
Ingersoll Rock Drills hold the record throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair
competition every drill brought against them, and have never failed to maintain their reputation for
doing the greatest amount of work at the least expense.
PRICES and PARTICULARS on application to
PARKE & LACY GO. LTD., 60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
USTRALBAN IHORTGACE,
INANCE
OY. ITD,
4 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
WOOL, PRODUCE, and
GRAIN BROKERS
STOCK and STATION
AGENTS .
Size, SJ" x 3£" x 5".
We are Direct Importers
«uid have
for Sale-
SdUlfld xaidfia MONS
Call siz««
for ail
purposoo)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hanger
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO.,
97 CLARB3XTCEI STREET, SYDNEY.
s, Bearings,
Steel, Wire
litdi
TWO ITEMS OF INTEREST.
RAND AIR COMPRESSORS
Will develop 1
Hour on 16Ehs.
BAND BOCK DRILLS
Won 11 out of 12 Heats
;
a
at the World’s Contest in Johannesburg.
CATALOGUES and PARTICULARS from
N. GUTHRIDCE IB
71 CLAREMCE ST., SYDNEY
486 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
