

p. H. BURKE’S “GALLEON” SCHNAPPS. “BEAVER” STOUT (Guinness’)
The Bulletin
Vol. 26.—N0. 1345.
[Thursday, November 23,1805.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspap®
tiling
and Contractors*
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS 4
Kent
*9
Plant, Engineers’
' GENERAL IRONMONGERY
nd Sawmill Machinery,
NEW AMD SECOND-BLAND PLANTS
ALWAYS
Mining Requisites
AVAILABLE.
HOBART*
■
Radleys Orient fjotel.
i
FIOWEgg
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY SELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowics & Son, Ltd., U 7 York St., Sydney
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND AND TO ARRIVE OF OO *S
Planing & Moulding Machines, Circular Saw Mills, General Woodworkers,
Deal & Flitch Frames, Band Mills, Vertical Boring Machines, Log Frames.
apply to Sole Agents, GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 BENT ST., SYDNEY
Fine Apple Brand
'Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTONS
HAMS ®
i BACON.
sAr
TlaticnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,0001
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
Now South Waloo Branch i
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society), W. A. GIBB, Momagtr.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted. “WS
*/£
w
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
m
m
Ml
i
m
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLXO IV QUALITY. WT I3NT BOTTLE. ~VG2
HARDY’S
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency co.
XjtdL.
SYDKTE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
AH Consignment* of SH EFSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sale* rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT grow*** for free stone* of
their grain. Full particular* will b* furnished on application.
H ELI DON SPA.
Gollin & Co., Agents.


THE RED PAGE.
COPYRIGHT
IF, contrary to intelligent expectation, the
House of Representatives should pro-
ceed to discussion of the Copyright
Bill before the measure has been
threshed thoroughly by a Select Committee,
it is respectfully suggested that the following
amendments should be made in the interest
of Australia.
Clause 5 to read :
. For the purpose of this Act publication, per-
formance, or delivery in the Commonwealth shall
be deemed to be simultaneous with publication,
performance, or delivery elsewhere, if the period
between the publications, performances, or de-
liveries do not exceed thirty days.
The Bill says fourteen days. It will not hurt us to con-
cede sixteen more.
Clause 13/2 to read :
Copyright shall subsist in every book which has
been printed and published or reprinted and repub-
lished in Australia before or simultaneously with
its first publication elsewhere, and has been regis-
tered within thirty days of such publication or
republication.
British copyright, according to Canadian ruling's, will
subsist independently. Nevertheless it is desirable to
establish and as far as possible to enforce a septi ate
Australian copyright status. '
There is a story of an Auier. rural magistrate, in the
happy days of barter, refusing matrimony to a pair of
backwoods candidates. “No, John!” he said; “no,
Melindy!—my fee is twenty pounds of beeswax. That
lump is five pounds short.” The downcast couple retired,
but at the door a bright thought struck the nymph, who
whispered to the swain, who returned sturdily to the
attack. “ Say, mister,” he said, “ can’t you marry us as
far as the wax will stick} ”
Though our legislation may not go all the way, we can
still enact it and let it go “ as far as the wax will stick. ”4'
J*
Add new clauses as follows, adapted from
the Canadian Act, 63 and 64 Vic., c. 25 :
If it is proved to the satis!action of the Minister
that the owner of the copyright of a book, pub-
lished in any part of the British dominions, has
lawfully granted a license to reproduce in Aus-
tralia, from movable or other types, or from
stereotype plates, or from electroplates, or from
lithograph stones, or by any process for facsimile
reproduction, an edition or editions of such book
designed for sale only in Australia, the Minister
may, notwithstanding anything in this or other
Acts, bv order under his hand, prohibit the im-
portation, except with the written consent of the
licensee, into Australia of any copies of such book
printed elsewhere ; provided that two such copies
may be specially imported for the bona fide use of
any public free library, or any university or
college library, or for the library of any duly in-
corporated institution or society for the use of the
members of such institution or society.
The Minister may at any time in like manner,
by order under his hand, suspend or revoke such
prohibition upon importation if it is proved to his
satisfaction that —
(a.) the license to reproduce in Australia has
terminated or expired ; or-
(b.) the reasonable demand for the boolc in
Australia is not sufficiently met without impor-
tation ; or
(c.) the book is not, having regard to the de-
mand therefor in Australia, being suitably printed
or published; or
(d.) any other state of things exists on account
of which it is not in the public interest to further
prohibit importation.
At any time after the importation of a book has
been so prohibited, any person resident or being-
in Australia may apply, either directly or through
a bookseller or other agent, to the person so
licensed to reproduce such book, for a copy of any
edition of such book then on sale and reasonably
obtainable in any part of the British dominions,
and it shall then be the duty of the person so
licensed, as soon as reasonably may be, to import
and sell such copy to the person so applying
therefor, at the ordinary selling price of such copy
in such part of the British dominions, with the
duty and reasonable forwarding charges added;
and the failure or neglect, without lawful excuse,
of the person so licensed to supply such copy
within a reasonable time, shall be a reason for
which the Minister may, if he sees fit, suspend or
revoke the prohibition upon importation.
Add a new clause adapted from the U.S.
Act of March 3, 1905
Whenever the author or proprietor of a book
which shall be published beyond Australia before
the day of publication in this country, or his
executors, administrators, or assigns, shall de-
posit with the Registrar one complete copy of
the same, including all maps and other illustra-
tions, within thirty days after the first publication
of such book beyond Australia, and shall insert in
such copy, and in all copies of such book sold or
distributed in Australia, on the title page or
the page immediately following, a notice of the
reservation of copyright in the name of the pro-
prietor, together with the true date of first publica-
tion of such book, in the following words:
“Published . nineteen hundred and
Privilege of copyright in Australia reserved under
the Act approved , nineteen hundred and
five, by .” and shall within twelve
months after the first publication of such book
beyond Australia, register such book and deposit
two copies of it that have been printed and
published or reprinted and republished in Aus-
tralia, then notwithstanding anything in this Act
copyright shall subsist in such book in the same
manner as if it had been printed and published
or reprinted and republished in Australia before
or simultaneously with its first publication else-
where ; but in no case shall such copyright continue
to exist after it has expired in the country of
origin.
Canadian law (Revised Statutes of 1880, c. 62, sec. 13)
makes similar provision for interim protection, hut' with
less liberal conditions Clause 65 of the Commonwealth
Act maybe amended to provide a Register of Interim
Copyrights. Clause 63 Should be expunged.
%
These amendmehts will involve the appli-
cation to Australia of the British Act of
1847, which was applied to Canada in 1868
as a part of the copyright law enacted irame-
diately after confederation, and has been in
force ever since. Following is an abstract
of tire Canadian Act (31 Vic", c. 56) :
. W hereas the British Act of 1847 provides that
in case the legislature of any British Possession
shall make provision for protecting the rights of
British authors the Crown may suspend the pro-
hibitions of the British Acts against the importa-
tion into and sale in such possession' of British
copyright books, therefore it is enacted :
ft shall he lawful to impose an ad valorem duty
not exceeding twenty per cent, (which may be
altered from time to time so that it does not
exceed this rate, and shall be collected as a duty of
Customs) upon foreign reprints of British copy-
right i woks.
Upon that a British Order in Council will
follow, similar to that made for Canada on
July 7, 1868, and still in force, suspending
the prohibitions of the British Acts.
An amendment of the Commonwealth
Customs Act is also involved, and may or
may not follow the Canadian Act 49 Vic.
c. 4, which declares as follows :
Dutiable Goods. — 33. Books, printed periodi-
cals and pamphlets, not elsewhere specified, not
being foreign reprints of British copyright works
nor blank account books, nor copy books, nor
books to be written or drawn upon, nor Bibles,
prayer-books, psalm and hymn-books, fifteen per
cent, ad valorem.
34. British copyright works, reprints of, fifteen
per cent, ad valorem, and in addition thereto
twelve and a-half per cent, ad valorem.
Free G00n5. —549. Books, bound, which have
been printed more than seven years at the date of
importation, except foreign reprints of English
copyrighted books, which shall remain subject to
the copyright duty ;
Prohibited Imports. —Bl4. Reprints of Cana-
' dian copyright works, and reprints of British
copyright works which have oeen also copy-
righted in Canada ;...
_ #
There is nothing in these amendments
which conflicts with British law. They
accord with British law, have been adopted
by Canada, and have been sanctioned by
Britain.
It is less easy to consider and pass these
amendments than to swallow the present
Bill holus-bolus, all in a lump. But there is
no hurry ; and the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment wants to make a good job. The
hard way leads to a law for the benefit of
Australia. The easy way leads to a law
for the benefit of Tom and Dick in London,
Hans in Leipzig, and Muckabuekajinjam in
Timbuctoo.
The Commonwealth Bill is clearly suscep-
tible of amendment in other ways which
there is no space to point out.
The Commonwealth Bill should be referred
to a Select Committee which, if it doubt the
efficacy of the Canadian plan, can collect
evidence by writing to Canada. Why not
take advantage of the elder federation’s 33
years’ more experience ?
We can very well wait a year for copy-
right legislation. Wby risk a bungle by
rushing it through a Parliament which does
not yet understand it ?
+.
A Health Reader , by J. S. Elkington, Tas.
public health officer, is published by Whitcombe
and Tombs (Melb. ; Is. (>c/.). The book is designed
for Australasian schools, and is written sensibly
and' well, Following a good rule, illustrations by
N. Lindsay enforce the text. The author deals
plainly with food and drink, air and baths and
clothing, tobacco and alcohol; and adds a few
cooking recipes and chapters on infectious
diseases and care of babies. Tjie lt3ons for
teachers, upon school hygiene, . would have
been placed more fitly in a separate book :
the subject deserves such a text-book written
for this country, with a criticism of school
buildings and a glance at the tropics. For
the children one would like some notes on the
hygiene of reading and writing, and the care of
the eyes. Games and gymnastics are worth a
chapter. Stress might be laid on the im-
portance of regular meals, “early to bed and
early to rise,” and sunlight for study; and the
remarks on the nutritive value of different foods,
and the childish use of tea, coffee, coooa, would
bear extension. As the book stands, however, it
is praiseworthy; and the printing is excellent,
though the details of binding can be improved.
Occasionally the author is inaccurate or dogmatic. The
victims of the Black Hole of Calcutta were not all
“ killed by the Carbonic Acid Gas from their own breath ’’
(16). The remarks about the necessity of scrubbing the
natural oil out of the skin (30) are doubtfully sound ; and
the advice to take warm baths should be safeguarded.—
One doubts whether it is worth while telling people to
drink boiled water in this country. It would probably
pay better, where there is not a good water supply, to
inculcate the Chinese habit of perpetual weak tea. Cocoa
might be commended as preferable.—The statements
about alcohol are probably expedient, but they are doubt-
fully true. —The advice to get vaccinated twice is bad in a
country where there is no smallpox. It would be just as
foolish to inoculate the whole population against plague.
Many Australian amateurs in photography will
desire to try their hands at the gum-bichromate
process. An excellent little handbook, written
by ,). C. Richards, has just lieen published by
fliffe & Sons (Loud. ; 2s. Gd. net). The advice is
illustrated liberally with plates of subjects in
several stages'. The writer closes :
To workers who, whilst endowed with the instincts and
enthusiasm of the trained artist, lack the technical skill
that would enable them to make, efficient use of the
pencil or brush, the gum process appeals as yielding the
ne plus ultra of artistic expression by mechanical means...
I do claim for photography that, ’in the future, if it is
aided by this sympathetic process, it can, and must, rise
to greater heights than those yet reached, and than could
ever have have been possible with a purely chemical and
arbitrary medium.
In Gidcstia and Other Australian Poems, by W.
H. Yarrington (Lond., Elliot Btock ; 3s. (id.), are
republished the moral and didactic verses of a
Sydney clergyman... and,it is necessary to say, as
courteously as possible, that this Pegasus has not
won the Cup.
N.S.W. PUBLIC LIBRARY
IT appears from a statement made in N.S.W.
Assembly on 7 Nov. by Premier Carruthers,
that in addition to the gift of his library col-
loction Mr. Mitchell proposes to make
N.S. Wales residuary legatee of his property,
“ which amounts to a very large sum. Indeed,
so large will be the benefit to the State that there
will be sufficient money provided from the annual
interest to maintain all the public libraries in
New South Wales.” This is Premier Carruthers’
statement, dependent on Mr. Mitchells state-
ment. The details are not given. The con-
ditions are not given. Apparently no deed
guarantees the gift or bequest. Mr. Mitchell
is apparently free to revoke either at any time.
Yet upon the Premier’s affirmation of a con-
tingent benefit N.S.W. Assembly voted to
approve the borrowing of 120,000/. in order to
house a collection which, until recently, was con-
tained entirely in Mr. Mitchell’s private house,
and for which apparently an adequate building
can be provided at a cost of from 10,000/. to
15,000/.
The procedure is not business-like. The ex-
penditure of such a large sum of money should not
be authorised with such scanty information, with
apparently so little real security. Nevertheless
the procedure may be “good business.” It may
be a case of doing the right thing in the wrong
way. One is quite prepared to believe that Mr.
Mitchell will justify the least word attributed
to him, and will give all that he has been
represented as willing to give.
J*
Yet this remains. When there was a straight
way of doing business the Government should not
have chosen the crooked way. When there was
a rational method of procedure the Government
should not have chosen the irrational method.
Parliament should not bo asked to rely upon the
hearsa; -; of Premier Carruthers. There should
have been placed before it a definite and recent
proposal in writing from Mr. Mitchell, embodying
all the intentions which Premier Carruthers attri-
butes to him, stating all the conditions and con-
tingencies, and formally guaranteeing the gift
when the conditions are complied with.
The sinister feature of the matter is the way in
which the admitted necessity of providing for the
Mitchell gift has been used to induce Parliament
to vote a sum of money greatly disproportionate
to that needed for complying with the ccaiditions
of the gift. Mr. Mitchell has been used as a
stalking-horse to secure an expensive new build-
ing for a public library, to be erected frpm plans
prepared without competition upon a site which
is doubtfully the best available. The tactic is
discreditable. "The public library supplies its
own justification, and can stand upon its own
merits. Though there be need of prompt action
to secure the Mitchell gift, there is no reason why
a new library should be built wituout full con-
sideration ; and the issues should have been Dut
fairly before Parliament and the public.
«**
H. C. Anderson, N.S.W. Public Librarian,
who has been reported recently as making several
foolish statements, was reported during the de-
bate a» making this one.:
“ I thought that as Sydney is as big- as many American
cities, it ought to have a library as big as theirs, and I
planned one accordingly.”
The saying may be added to other sayings and per-
formances which have raised considerable doubt as
to this gentleman’s fitness to occupy his present
position. The public value of a library does not con-
sist in the bigness of the building which contains it.
The building is a necessary adjunct. The books
are a necessary adjunct. But the value of a
library depends upon its practical utility, upon
its living inspiration ; and these things do not-
depend upon the piling of stones or the accumu-
lation of curiosities. While the education given
to children in N.S.W. schools is inferior because
the salaries paid are so mean that the best
men and women cannot be obtained as teachers ;
while the annual vote to N.S.W. public library is
so starved or misapplied that the trustees are un-
able to supply the deficiencies in the library and
to make adequate purchases of new books ; while
the-needs of the library or the capacities of the
librarian to supply theiri are so lightly held that
Premier Carruthers can transfer the librarian to
another and entirely different field of duties : it is
clear that the enthusiastic expenditure of borrowed
money on “big” buildings, without the fullest
consideration of the definite uses to which they
may be devoted, has nothing to recommend it.
- - - ♦- -
The Parliament of Beasts and Other Verses, by
“Rip Van Winkle” (Bond.; R. A. Thompson ;
2s. Gd. net.), entitles a little book hailing from
Capetown, and criticising men and things in light
satiric measures, not always well handled. The
topics are too local for Australian amusement;
yet occasionally the writer (D. Colvin, of The
Gape Times) exhibits a fresh and pretty senti-
ment that may be earnest of better things. The
sestet of a dedicatory sonnet is noticeable ;
Some happy olden story would 1 tell,
Or sad romaunt wrought of a poet’s sighs.
Then list for your soul’s answer, as one lies
Upon the brink of a deep, silent well
Wherein long moments since a pebble fell,
And hearken as the sounding echoes >~ise,
So tears would ripple up into your eyes
Or laughter ringing like a golden bell.
A golden bell ; but swung from what sad deeps
Even so a trembling water lily makes
' Through glimmering floods he r wavering pilgrimage,
Until at last, a golden crown she takes
And, samite robes, but still her glad heart keeps
The memory of her silent a nchorage.
A. E. Housman (of A Shropshire Lad) edits the
classics with quite an Eighteenth Century twang. In a
just-published recension of Juvenal he writes of one hated
opponent and his detested descendant: “ I imagine that
Mr. Buecheler, when he first perused Mr. Sudhaus’ edition
of the ‘ Aetna,’ must have felt something like Sin when
she gave birth to Death.”
MEMORANDA
Minister Groom, introducing the Copyright
Bill to the Representatives, said that the Infperi 1
Foreign Reprints Act.of 1847 “was not successful
in its operation, as it failed to confer any real
benefit upon authors.” The statement is inaccurate 1
The Act was so far successful that it has neve-
been repealed and remains a basis o| existing
Canadian law, while the principle which it
established was recommended by the British
Commission whose ideas have been adopted*
to some, extent in the Commonwealth Bill
Possibly the Act “ failed to confer anv
real benefit” upon British authors, but British
authors are not the only pebb 1 -on the beach. The
Act did benefit Canadian readers; and Canada
has always affirmedt what Britain has always
admitted, that the interest of Canadian readers is
entitled to consideration no less than that of
British authors. Copyright legislation m us t;
compromise between authors and readers ; and it
is natural to expect that the Commonwealth
Parliament will put Australian interests first.
“ We have not developed a literature entirely
distinct from the great parent stock,” says an
American critic, “but we believe that our writing
has been inspired by definite American ideals.”
And in this country’s literature we want—definite
Australian ideals!
“Anglo-Indian,” in the N.A. Review, declares
that Kitchener’s triumph over Curzon is due to
the new conception of India as a military bulwark
of Britain.
“India, under the ®gis of Lord Kitchener, is destined
to fight the battles from which the British conscript
shrinks. It is an Imperial idea, but it is the Imperialism
of a decadent democracy. Lord Curzon, who knows well
the secrets of Indian finance, and knows well and sympa-
thises with the crying needs of Indian administration,
sees how the revenues will be spent; he sees the money
required for education, irrigation, railways, and police
clutched by a confident Commander-in-chief. He does
well to resign.”
The French poet Heredia; recently here referred-
to, died on 2nd October. Obituary notices point
out that his native Cubans are proud not merely
of the French Heredia, but of their own ; for the
deceased writer left a- cousin with exactly the
same name, who is considered the greatest poet of
Spanish America. There is a nephew, too:
Emilio do Heredia, a brilliant painter; and one
of Heredia’s daughters, Mrae. Henri de Regnier,
is a distinguished writer of prose. Another
daughter is married to Pierre Louys, and the
third to Maurice Maindron.
It is encouraging to find W. Cunningham, of
the Economic Science Section of the British
Association, declaring in his presidential address,
1905, that “in the world of political and economic
activities we never find the same conditions
repeating themselves. The-fundamental inquiry
must always be, How far were the conditions of
some growing community in the past similar to
those of some growing community to-day? How
far are they on all fours, so that we can argue
from one to another directly?”—This utterance is
commended to the gentlemen who argue about
Freetrade for Australia from the foreign experi-
ence of 50 or 100 years ago.
‘ ‘ The day one really requires a holiday most is
the day after.” —“Winifred” in Melb. Argus.
J. L. Ford, in The Reader, gives a good ex-
planation of the inferiority of the cheaper Eng.
magazines :
To go to the very root of the matter, we find that the
great bulk of current magazine literature is prepared by a
class of writers who are quite different from those who
furnish similar material in America. Every year there are
graduated from the English universities a vast number of
young men who are finely educated, capable of writing
the purest English, and possessed of an income almost
large enough to maintain them in the style befitting their
birth. I am speaking now of the younger sons of good
families, the scions of the minor branches of aristocratic
-oots, and of others who go to make up the great army of
well-bred, well-dressed, well-connected, well-fed, and
well-educated young men, who know that if they can add
to the allowance or inheritance that is theirs already the
sum of one or two hundred pounds a year, they can live
comfortably in London and enjoy the best that the town
has to offer to its well-placed idlers.'
The only problem, then, that confronts them is how to
earn this one or two hundred pounds with the least labour
and social degradation : and, naturally enough, nine-
tenths of them decide upon the profession of letters. As
they are veritable ■Chinamen in their willingness to
underbid legitimate craftsmen, as well as in their habits
of not spending any of their own money, they dispose of
their services for much less than the regular market
price,- and there are even some of them who offer one or
two social introductions as asort of bonus to those editors
or publishers who are willing to purchase their wares.
Realising as they do the necessity for reaching a class
that they regard as beneath their own, they attempt to
“ write down " to their readers, and they are apt to do
this with an insolence and a condescension that are a
positive insult to those whom they address.
The result of all .this is that the pages of the sixpenny
English magazines are filled with matter that, although
admirably written, is not only wholly unsuited to the
tastes, of those who are expected to read it, but also in
many instances reeking with impertinent,. boorish affa-
bility.
Robert Bridges indulges us with a new volume,
his sixth of “poetical works.” His concurrent Yeats
indulges himself rather with six revisions-of a volume.
But Bridges used to be a-mighty oarsman,; and ' probably
has a big heart to drive Him to -effort. Gather ye-muscle
while ye may !
E. G. Bourne, Yale Professor of History, in a
recent volume ascribes the actual invention of the name
America to Martin Waldseemiiller, Professor of Geo-
graphy at the college of St.. Die : who suggestediin ISO/
that “since‘Americas discovered the new part of - the
globe, Anierigen, quasi Amend terrain,, sive Americaw
nuncupare licet." Said Americawas not always the land
of freedom. In 1671 Governor Berkeley, of Virginia,
wrote : “ I thank God there are no free schools or print-
ing, and I hope we shall not have these hundred years,
for learning has brought disobedience and heresy and
sects into the world, and printing has divulged them and
libels against the best government. God keep -us-from
both ! ”
People who give monthly ninepences for tedious
Eng. magas. are recommended to The (U.S.) Popular.
This is a young competitor whichhas to earn its footing
by printing tolerable stuff ; and, being on promotion, it
isn’t yet loaded with the excessive advts. that chouse
buyers of the others..
A.G.S.
THIS WEEK’S
NEW I
NEW BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Oppenheim, A Maker of Millions, 2s (kl & 3s 6d, post 6d.
Hawkins, Sir Henry, Baron Brampton Reminiscences;
new and cheaper edition, 6s, post Sd.
Raphael, “ Popular Library of Art,” 2s 6d, post 3d.
Cripps, Mapic Casements, 3s, post 4d.
Noble, The Lady Navigator ; a Novel, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Oloss, Book of the Motor Car, 12s fid, post 9d.
Burnside and Owen, “ Lives of Great Men,” 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Lukin, Possibilities of Small Lathes, Is 3d, post 3d.
Chapman, The Cotton Industry and Trade, Bs, post 4d.
Scott, Poultry Farming ; Some Facts, etc., Gs, post 6d.
Sir Tims. Browne, by Gosse, E.M. of L. Series, 2sfid, p. 4d.
ISIIKH
by QEORQE BARR JVIcCUTCHEON, author of < < raustark. Beverly of Graustark
The Purple Parasol, The. Day of the Dog:, etc., etc., with Coloured illustrations by
; in attractive cloth, 3s od, postage (Id.
HARRISON PIS
71 Castfercaejh-streat, Sydney, and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and London.
NEDRA
Wf
A
theGfveat
mkmis /iTisEPiic remedy
UmpitSSfecC
for Influenza, Bronchitis, Asthma,sail affections of
the throat a lungs, & for prevention of Consumption.
Sold in Tins, 1/6, or Post Free on receipt of stamps from the Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist,lpswichi
Queensland SYDNEY DEPOT—S and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the Australian States & New Zealand.
LONDON AGENT—W. F. Pasmore, Chemist, !«oRegent Street IV.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY,
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS' PRODUCE. "W
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
it
Sure
Catch ”
FISHING TACKLE.
MICK SIMMONS,
Hay market, Sydney.
We have the best assortment of Rods, Reels,
Lines, Flies, Minnows, Spinners, and Tackle
in the States.
o
f]
Split Cane Rods.
No.
1 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, Cork Grip
and Handle, 50s each
1 Fitted with Lock Joints, 00s ea.
2 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, Handle,
40s each
3 i2ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, in case,
22s 6d each
4 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, in case,
12s Od each
Creenheart Rods.
No.
5 13ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 27s 6d ea
6 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 27s 6d ea.
7 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 21s ea.
8 12ft, 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 15s ea.
9 13ft, 3 Joints, 1 Top, 14s 6d ea.
LO 12ft, 3 Joints, 1 Top, 9s 6d ea.
The Standard Waterproof Plaited Silk
Trout Lines.
20yds.
No.
2 1/10 ea.
3 2/- ea.
4 2/2 ea.
5 2/6 ea.
6 3/- ea.
7 3/6 ea.
40yds.
No.
2 3/8 ea.
3 4/- ea.
4 4/4 ea.
5 5/- ea.
6 6/- ea.
7 7/- ea.
00£oH
A
Split Cana
Nos.
40 yards ..
1
Is 9d
The Perfect Waterproof Plaited Silk Trout Lines.
2 3 4 5 Nos. 1 2 3 4 6
-s3d 2s 9d 3s 3s 6d each | 80 yards .. 3s 6d 4s 6d 5s 6d 6s 7s each
NOTTINGHAM WOOD REELS, with Moveable Cheek.
■
I m
No. 2
No. 2—3 in., 5s 6d ; 3Jin.,
6s 6d; 4in., 7s;
4|in., 8s; sin., 9s
each
No. 2a— 3in., 6s 6d ;
7s 6d; 4in., 8s 6d
each
No. 3—Brass Plates and
I Inside Lining, 3in.,
8s 6d ; 3Jin., 9s 6d;
4in., 10s 6d ; sin.,
16s each
GUN-METAL CHECK
REELS,
Screwed Fittings.
No. 4—2Jin., 3s 6d ; 2|in.,
6s 6d; better 2in.,
14s; 3in., 16s 9d
each. Aluminium,
3Jin., 30s each
No
4
Mounted on Gut.
Best Trout and
Herring Flies.
Trout Flies, Mounted on
Gut—
* Nos. 6,7, 8,9, 10, Best
Hooks, Is 9d dozen
Nos. 7,8, 9, 10, 11, 12
Hooks, Is 3d dozen
Herring’Flies on Gut, No.
7 to 12 Hooks, Is dozen
I
■i
Looped
Eyed.
Best Trout Plies, on Turn-Down Eyed
Sneck Hooks, Nos. 3,6, 8,9, 10,
Is 9d dozen.
Best Perch Plies—Nos. 1/0, 2/0 Hooks on
Gut, 6d, 9d each ; No. 1/0, 2/0 Looped
Eyed, Is, Is 3d each
Special Grasshopper Plies on Gut, Nos.
1,2, 3, 4 Hooks, 6d each.
Special Gut Oasts for Trout, 2 yards,
2d, 3d, 4d, 6d, 9d, Is each.
Mick Simmons
for Fishing Tackle.
i | o
.3 0 >,
HOW
Tackle Boxes and Bait Cans.
No. Bb —Japanned Tin Boxes for Tackle, 6d each.
No. 68, better, Is 6d each
No. 67 —Japanned Double-sided Tackle Box. 6d each
No. 69 —6in. Japanned Bait Box, fit round waist, Is 6d each
No. 70—6 in. Japanned Bait Box, fit round waist, 2s each
No. 71—Patent Bait Can (for carrying live fish), 6s each
No. 72—Patent Bait Can, enamelled (for carrying live fish), 8s 6d, 10s 6d each
No. 67
Illustrated Fishing: Tackle, Sports and
Tobacco Lists Post Free.
Patent
Collapsible
Trout Net,
17/6
EACH.
No. 86 —4£in. Leather, Parchment, Is 6d each
No. 87 —4in. Leather, Parchment Pockets, 3s 6d each.
No. 88—5 in. Leather, Parchment Pockets, 4s 6d each.
No. 89—5 in. Canvas, Parchment Pockets, 6s 6d each.
No. 91—6 in. Patent Fly Clips, Pockets, 7s each.
Best Books for Holding
Flies and Tackle.
Artificial Baits for Trout, Perch and Cod
No. 112.
S. Ailcock & C”fr Patent
No. 112—Silk Minnows, ljin., 2in., 2Jin, 2Jin., 2s each
No. 114—Pearl Minnows, 2s 6d each.
No. 115—Devon Minnows, assorted colors, lin., ljin.,
liin., Is each ; l}in., 2in., Is 3d each.
No. 122—Halcyon Spinners, lin., Is each; ljin.,
Is 3d each ; 2in., Is 6d each.
No. 131—Special Rubber Grasshoppers,
Small, 6d each ; Large, 9d each.
No. 130—Pure Rubber Crickets, Locusts,
6d each ; Beetles, 4d each.
No. 123—Archer Spinners, Is 6d each.
No. 124—Fly Minnow, 6d each.
No. 125—Soleskin Minnow, 6d each.
No. 126—Sydney Spinners, small, 9d.
each ; large, Is each.
No. 127—Sydney Spinner, Single Hook,
3d each
No. 128 —Fly Spoon, with 1 Hook, 6d ea.
No. 127—Perch Fly Spinner, small,
medium, large, Is each.
Heavy Metal, Silvered Spoon Baits,
Mounted on Gimp,
lin., liin., ljin., 6d each
lfin., 7d each ; 2in., 8d each
2iin., 9d ea. ; 2£in., lOd ea.; 2Jin., Is ea.
Sample Sheet of Fish Hooks Gratis.
Patent Ring-Mounted
Devons.
lin., ljin., l£in., Is 6d each
lfin., 2in., Is 9d each
j
No. 122.
Spoon Bait.
Heavy Metal, Scaled Back,
Spoon Baits, red inside, on Gimp,
lin. .. 9d each
1 Jin. .. lOd each
2in. .. Is each
2Jin. .. Is 3d each
II
WILLOW TROUT BASKETS —
12in., 6s. each; 14in., 7s. 3d. each ;
16in., Ss. 6d. each; 18in., 9s. 6d. each.
30
28
26
29
22
20
/8
/6
&
iZ
- 10
-8
WATERPROOF SILK TWIST LINEB, on Cork,
33 yards.
Nos.
EACH.
Nos.
EACH.
14—33 yards.. 7d.
12—33 „ .. Bd.
10—33 „ .. 9d.
8—33 „ .. lOd.
6—33 „ .. Is.
■ ■■ ■ n i ■ i ■' r i 'i"rr~ JQ
■ . 60
ENGLISH FLAX WATERPROOF LINES
on Cork.
No. 60 —Bream, 25yds., 6d. each; 50yds.,9d.
each ; 100yds., Is. 3d. each.
No. 30—Flathead, 25yds., Sd. each: 50yds.,
Is. each; 100yds., Is. 9d. each.
THE CROWN
WATERPROOF SILK LINEB.
40 yards on Cork No. 3,
Is 6d each
ENGLISH PURE SILK LINES.
50 yards, Green, on Cork,
No. 24—6 d each.
No. 20—8 d each.
No. 16—9 d each.
No. 12—Is each.
No. 10—Is 3d each
mciT S>nr,o«s
CANTa BEAT
£J
iLine on Cork.
English Hemp Fishing Lines.
No. 80—Bream, 25yds., 6d each ; 50yds., 9d each ; 100yds., Is each
No. SO—Flathead, 25yds., 8d each ; 50yds., !■ h ; 100yds., 1/9,each-
Our Special Schnapper or Cod Lines
ROLLED
9 Cord—
ON CORK OR REEL.
12 ■ -
15 ,■, aga
18 ,T, rn ~n
27
36 / rrrrr-rrr
.8 Cord—Shark or Cod—
-25 yards, 9d each ; 50 yards, Is 6d each;
100 yards, 2s 9d each ; 200 yards, 5s each.
27 Cord—Shark or Cod—
-25 yards, Is each ; 50 yards, Is 9d each ;
100 yards, 3s each ; 200 yards, 5s 6d each.
Remittance and Freight
Must Accompany Order.
the TRADE SXJPPX.IBD.'^Ii
SEND FOR LISTS.'W
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Australian Mutual Provident Society-
Annual Distribution of the Surplus.
Next Division of the Profits will be
made as at 31st December, 1905.
All participating' Policies issued previous to that date will share in the Bonus to be then allotted.
CASH BONUS DIVIDED for the year 1904 was £618,486, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
EXCEEDING ONE MILLION POUNDS STERLING.
Bonuses declared by this Society are larger than those of any other Mutual Life Office. - *®
REMEMBER.—Applications should be made before the close of the year either direct to the
HEAD OFFICE = 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
or through any of the Society’s Agents in order to reap the benefit of this year’s bonus.
Directors —Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J.
T. Walker ; Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Benjamin Short, Esq. ; Janies Burns, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION - .
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WINCHESTER
“NEW RIVAL”
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
High in quality, yet moderate in price. Win-
chester “New Rival” Shotgun Cartridges,
loaded with Black Powder are in a class by
themselves, price considered. They are manu-
factured with the same care and skill which
has made the name “Winchester” synonom-
ous with reliability and accuracy. Sportsmen
the world over use them. A trial will con-
vince you that they are the very best made.
ALL DEALERS KEEP THEM
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach. Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
m=
INEFORDS
I MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See Capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT;’ Without It you bare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Frap&rad only by J. 0. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, BING.,
by J. O. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, special^
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weakjen ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
'Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Be-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23,6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
dyspeptic debility.
A HARROWING TALE OF SUFFERING AND A
THANKFUL TRIBUTE FROM ULTIMO.
The Case of Mr. V. BORWICK,
(•By a Sydney Keporter.)
Mr. Victor Borwick is a storekeeper
who has his business premises and. re-
sidence at 286 and 288 Crown-road,
Ultimo, and although he could have
been found at this address any time
during- the past eleven years,it was not
till lately that a reporter had occasion
to pay his establishment a visit, ‘the
reason for calling,” as the scribe ex-
plained, “being to get some informa-
tion respecting a widely-known recov-
ery that happened to come within
hearing.”
“Ah ! That is six years ago now
since I got all right again, Mr. Bor-
wick remarked, “and I think it was
about up to me to have a change of
luck, considering that I had been suf-
fering for fully three years. The pains
that ran along my gums and reached
up to the top of mv head were some-
thing terrible, and half my time I did
not know what I was doing. My ad-
versities set in when I was ‘running
the plank,' as they call it, on a boat
discharging blue metal, and I can as-
sure you that 1 was so broken down
in health that I had to put another man
on to do my work about every other
week. Talk about neuralgia ! I’m sure
nobody could have it worse than I
had, and as I found such a grand cure
for it the least I can do is to let hu-
manity know all about it, for I dare-
say my experience will prove very
helpful. Well, out of all the medicines
I tried to cure neuralgia the only one
that was of any lasting benefit was
Clements Tonic, and when I say that
after keeping going with that remedy
for a few weeks the fearful pains all left
me and have never returned all these
years, it is the honest truth I am tell-
ing you.”
“Is that the only ailment you have
had ?”
“Indeed, no. All the time the neural-
fic tortures were at me I had other
roubles to deal with, for my diges-
tion was just as bad as it could be.
Both from want of appetite, amd also
owing to the pains about my jaws,
eating was almost out of the ques-
tion ; but what was still more unfortu-
nate was the fact that the little I did
force myselt to take to keep body and
soul together had the unhappy habit
of disagreeing with me. And you must
remember that I was getting no sleep.
Neither night nor day—for weeks at a
stretch sometimes —could I get any
rest, and, as you may well imagine,
the result was disastrous. I got so
terribly weak that ultimately I had to
give up my work altogether, and m ,< '
body was so denuded of flesh that my
clothes hung about me like a sack.
Indeed, i was just going to have some
of them altered about the time that I
started on Clements Tonic, and bv
some means or other the. idea was
shelved for a while, for which I was
afterwards vc v glad, as in few
months I was as stout as ever. Yes i;
it was quite a matter for regular com-
ment how well I was looking, and,
thank God ! I felt well, too. For three
years previous to using Clements To-
nic I was nothing but a total wreck,
for every part of my body was ad-
versely affected in some way or other.
It was my first experience of indiges-
tion, and T sincerely trust it will be
my last, for I would rather be dead
and out of the world altogether than
go through such misery again. T got to
feel as shaky and uncomfortable as if
everything in my inside was going to
pieces, and was so disturbed and un-
settled mentally that the least thino-
made me irritable. My eyes always
felt heavy and swollen to such an ex-
tent that 1 could scarcely see to read,
and I felt so discontented and restless
that T could not stay indoors. Conse-
quently 1 often wandered about out-
side hardly knowing what to do with
myself, feeling as though death would
be a thousand times more welcome
than the wretched life I was leading,
for I was in agony everywhere. The
pains- in my chest were really cruel,
and I thought I had strained myself
or broken something between my
shoulders owing to the pain that was
there. It was like getting hold of a
piece ot meat, and tearing it in two —
that was the kind of feeling 1 had be-
tween the shoulders, and my loins
ached badly into the bargain."
“And have you never had a return
of any of those symptoms during the
past six years ?’’
“JNo, upon my honour 5 and I have
not had that nasty, bulged-out feeling
in the stomach either after eating my
food. JNo ; Clements Tonic removed
everything, even to the bitter taste of
a morning and the fur that used to
cover my tongue, besides which it gave
me permanent relief from the many at-
tacks of giddiness that I had pre-
viously been subjected to. How much
my nerves accounted for the misery I
had endured is hard to say definitely,
but they undoubtedly had their fair
share of responsibility, for I must tell
you that 1 was so highly nervous that
I could not stand the least excitement
without getting all of a tremble, and I
had also contracted an uncontrollable
practice of measuring the future with
nothing but trouble and worry in
store. All 1 could see before me was a
continuance of my suffering only to be
added to by misfortunes of other de-
scriptions, and now that you under-
stand the gloomy frame of mind I waf
in you will readily conceive. why 1
speak so highly of Clements Vonic for
lifting me from that sorry _ state to
the happy and healthy condition I ami
now blessed with. It was. through
reading somebody’s testimonial that i
decided to give Clements Tonic a trial,
and my earnest hope is that other
sufferers, for their sako, will be so in-
fluenced when they read mine, and
then l shall consider I have performed
a valuable service to the community.
1 can give Clements Tonic a special
word in respect to its invigorating in-
fluence over my nervous system. It
cleared every trace of nervousness
right away, and as an appetiser it
was simply marvellous. Cat ! why,
when once I got going I hardly knew
when to stop, so no wonder I soon
filled my clothes out again. But it
was all good, sound fle-h I put on,
plenty of strength and vigour behind
it. and after using several bottles of
Clements Tonic, there was hardly an
ache anywhere to mar the wonderful
cure 1 had made. What little discom-
fort there was left after using my first
lot of Clements Tonic was soon dis-
persed by my continuance of the same
remedy, and if anybody doubts the
completeness of my recovery all they
have to do is to drop in and see me,
and I will give them my experience
verbally from end to end.’
“And in the meantime may I circu-
late vour story?’’ ...
“■You are at liberty to publish it in
any conceivable style you may wish*
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
1 VICTOR BORWICK, of 286-288 Crown
toad, Ultimo, in the Staite of New. South
Pales. Commonwealth of Australia, do
olemnly and sincerely declare that I have
arefully read the annexed document, consist-
off of five folios, and consecutively numbered
[*om OD6 to fivp. aod that it contains ainu
s a true and faithful account of my Illness
nd cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
alns my full permission to publish in any
?ay my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without .receiving any payment: and I make
his solemn declaration conscientiously beuev-
ng the samo to bo true, and by virtue of
he provisions ot the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Ultimo this
wenty-third day of August, one thousand
ine hundred and four, before Jp
Address.
A Beautiful ( 9 Ct. Gold-cased) Bracelet, a Solid Gold
Shell Ring, and a Handsome Nickel Silver Watch, FREE.
Simply send us your Name and Address, plainly written on a postcard,
and we will send you 20 Packages of our unexcelled Violet Per-
fume, in a Box, FREE of all expense to you. You then sell the
Perfume among your friends and neighbours, at 6d. per packet, and
when sold, you remit us the money you have collected, and we will send
you absolutely FREE for your trouble, the above-described WATCH,
or the BRACELET, and the RING. Both the Perfume and the
Premiums are sent absolutely Free of all charges. It is an entirely
new perfume and will sell easily, and each customer who buys a
package receives a prize ticket which entitles them to a beautiful
Brooch, absolutely Free. Our object in making this marvellous offer,
and giving such unusual fine premiums, is to get our very superior Per-
fume into the hands of the public immediately, as we are satisfied that
everyone will be so well pleased with it that they will gladly recommend
it to their friends. We have hundreds of unsolicited testimonials. You
simply send your Name and Address, plainly written on a post-card, and
we will send the Perfume. No money required. We take all risk. Goods
returnable if not sold. Remember, we pay all shipping expenses.
“VIOLET PERFUME CO,”
' A G PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N S.W_
n
ARE YOU BALD?—
Providing you have a “ down ”on the scalp, I w iU guarantee that
CAPII*IiA HAIR TONIC will make that “down” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Papilla. 2/6 a bottle;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W.
Richards, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Losing your hair? Do you bring
out a combful each morning? Has
it lost its natural brightness? Is it
beginning to look faded and dead?
Do you like this condition of things?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling
of the hair at once. Stop it before
your hair is thin, short, and lifeless.
Buy a bottle of
ziifer’s
%air Vigor
and make your hair beautiful, glossy,
silky, abundant.
If your hair is gray, and you don’t
care to look at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It always restores color
to gray hair, all the deep, rich, beauti-
ful coior it had when you were young.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. A) r er & Co., towel! , Mass ., U. S. A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . . .
“ Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“ Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR, AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
BYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [ 2
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
V (Kegd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
DAY
VS
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
ECONOMICAL
Pyjamas,
Children’s
BECAUSE
Frocks, & c .
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says : " ‘ Viyella ’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
ROTH WELL’S
Only Address: EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
The Best Value 8/6 TERAI HAT
in the Commonwealth. 9/6 post paid. All Shades.
BRISBANE’S BIG HAT STORE. [2
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait ; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
tree from Bulletin office, 6s.
Various Verses.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An Hour’s Respite.
Here, in the deep, cool shadows of the widely-
spreading tree,
I will rest me for an hour with my head upon
your knee.
Quite near to us our people drudge—to slavery
resigned;
But for one fleeting hour at least, my dear, I will
not mind.
Forget them all, my girlie. Ah ! I bided there,
and fought
The battles they are fighting, in the wider realms
of thought.
And I suffered ; but I’ve left them at an angel’s
sweet behest —
For I’m tired —oh, so tired ! —and I crave a little
rest.
Yet I wonder (ah ! forget them? —it is little use
to try !)
And I wonder if they’re sadder folk or wearier
than I.
Do they dream the dreams of childhood ? And,
I’m yearning still to know,
Have they ever one to cheer them when they
extra weary grow ?
Forget them ! Ah, my girlie, in the city’s dull
confines,
My brother scribes are writing—aye, they’re
grinding out the lines ;
Shaping leaders, pars, and poems, stories grave,
and humor gay ;
And I know that they are weary, and I pity them
to-day.
But forget them... I’ll forget them, with my
head upon your knee,
As we listen to the breezes’ strange, old, soothing
melody;
Where the maid is half an angel, and the man is
half a beast,
We’ll forget our deepest sorrows for one trifling
hour at least.
For an hour and I’ve forgotten—all the city’s
strife is gone—
Receded, faded, vanished into deep oblivion.
For one hour ! And could we ever cease to falter
and to fret,
And be blind to all our troubles, or forgive them—
and forget!
And you whisper words of comfort with my head
upon your knee :
This is rest, and peace, and rapture—’tis angelic
sympathy...
Forgetting... still forgetting... and a word, a kiss,
a smile—
Our lives are long, and, oh ! an hour is such a little
while!
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
Melbourne—A Silhouette.
Lamps a-glitter in the street,
Rain and laughter, hasty feet,
And the pale moon soaring high
In the sparkling winter sky.
Violin and harp and lute,
Gaslight gilding piles of fruit,
Tram-cars shooting through the night,
Clanging as they rush from sight.
Singers shrill, and blind man’s drone,
Shutters closing one by one,
Empty streets and cabs in flight,
Night and silence —silence, night.
vio.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAE.
Music.
What is this message that thou hast for us ?
What tale to tell that never yet was told
Of yearning needs, of pain diaphanous,
Of misty memories long aeons old ?
Thy voice is as the voice of far-off spheres
Bathed in translucent ether, shining blue,
Heard in dim dreams, but closed to mortal ears,
Of bliss ineffable vast ages through.
Thy voice is infinite as is the sea
Crooning its love-song to the sun-lit sand ;
Luring the dancing boat to wander free,
Full of caresses for its love—the land.
Thou bring’st before us with a Dryad’s touch
All that we ever knew of hopes and fears,
Of truth and love and tenderness, of such
As moves the heart to laughter and to tears.
The blaze of sunlight over growing cane,
The singing in the quarters after work,
The curlew’s cry of never-ending pain,
The clink of horse-hoofs homing through the
murk.
The smell of burning pine on autumn eves,
The rocking of the cradle in the hut,
The morning sunshine through the tender leaves,
The fragrance of the cedar logs fresh cut.
The passion and the pain of primal love
When man sees woman first through opened
eyes—
And these thou tell’st of from thy shrine above,
Winging thy message through the starry skies.
Thou bring’st the primal wildernesses back,
The savage virtuous vice of earliest man,
The darkling fear, the freedom, and the wrack
Of jungle battles when the world began.
What strange Erse legends of the pathless times
With wondrous Celtic glamor thou dost tell,
Of chivalrous true knights in minstrel rhymes—
Of holy quests, and murders dark and fell.
Thou art the echo of what e’er could be—
What e’er has been of darkness and of light,
The beating heart of all humanity—
Thou far-off murmur of the Infinite.
N.S.W.
C.G.S.
THE CAREFUL HOUSEWIFE
does not forget when ordering the household goods to include a bottle of “ BONNXNGTON’S
IRISH MOSS.” She knows it is advisable to have this medicine in the house, as it is a
certain remedy for troublesome Colds, Bronchitis, and Chest affections generally. It never
fails to cure if you obtain the genuine article,
Bonhincton’s Irish Moss
(OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.)
s
m
WALTHAM
WATCHES
12,000,000 of these
watches now in use.
All Waltham
watches are guaran-
teed by American
Waltham Watch
Co., the largest
watch movement
manuf ac turing
concern in the world.
The Americans say
This Beats Creation .
We do not say that, but we do say
Our Three Pounds Diamond
Ring is Remarkable Value.
CEH) ggj}
Hence the Illustration.
5 Pure Diamonds in a Coronet
Setting-, Hand Made, 18ct. Cold,
and the band of the Ring 18ct.
or 22ct. Practically Pure Gold,
L. I. FLEGELTAUB,
Diamond Merchant and Goldsmith,
Waltham Watch Expert,
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Post Free Everywhere.
HONESTLY WORTH A GUINEA!
Pears’Annual
XMAS, 1905. Ready flouember 27th.
‘ffelson & §is dimes’
Vice-Admiral Lord CHARLES BERESFORD
and H. W. WILSON,
With over 100 SUPERB ILLUSTRATIONS
Published in celebration of the Nelson Centennial, and appealing
directly to the National patriotism of every one of British birth
throughout the Empire. The life of the greatest Admiral of the
past, by the Greatest Admiral of the present. Also
3 hbbe PRESENTATION PLATES
(Each Printed in 13 Colours),
in the best and most artistic style of the Chromo-Lithographic Art, viz:
1. “ Saluting the Admiral ” l c T.i. DEN -
2. “Sweethearts” By FRED . MORGAN. 23 x 17% inches.
3. “ Che ijappy Rotter ” M^ATLV1 RONNER
THE WHOLE ENTIRELY PRINTED IN ENGLAND.
Sold by all Booksellers; Wholesale Agents for Australasia
GORDON & GOTCH.


"/'■'•RACKATACKS” present not
only the very Latest Im-
provements, but are unquestion-
ably tie Best and Most Beautiful
Toned Mouth Organs made.
The Reeds are of best bell
metal alloy, tuned by experts.
The frames a r e of thoroughly seasoned hardwood,
the reed plates are solid brass, and every reed
tongue is securely riveted. The Tone is perfected;
by a system of voicing the reeds, which makes it rich,
and powerful in volume, and the reeds are subjected,
to a process of special tuning, so that each note
throughout the entire register is absolutely perfect.
ALLAN & CO.,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
%
(PROFESSIONAL)
Crackajack Professional S/-
CRAC KAJAC K
(SENIOR)
Crackajack Senior. 2/-
(JU
Crackajack Junior, 1/6
|«gf«#BOSS
S ' <53
Boss Cracker, 1/-
(SH-ASKA*
rf'AeK
Crackajack Cadet, 6d.
Crackajack"
MOUTH ORGANS.
The covers are of heavy brass, heavily plated,
and artistically engraved. It is impossible to
fully describe these instruments and their
musical qualities. They must be seen and
used to be appreciated. We can recommend
them as being superior to
all other Mouth Organs in
appearance, quality and
tone.
REMEMBER LAXATINE!
It is the best aperient procurable.
It is a certain and speedy cure for Constipation.
It removes all impurities from the system.
It makes you feel well and strong, happy and contented.
It is not, like pills, a violent purgative, but a gentle laxative.
It is pleasant to the palate, being made up in lozenges, like lollies.
All Chemists and Storekeepers sell LAXATINE. One Shilling per Box.
Hotelkeepers, Fruiterers & Caterers
CAN PRODUCE
IOOdOZ. AERATED WATERS for 30/-
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE
AND VERY LITTLE LABOR.
The only machine used by the Officers’ Ward Room of the Australian Squadron and Victorian
Railway Refreshment Rooms.
NO STEAM POWER required to work it. Easily erected, and occupies very little space.
The “ GLACIER SODA FOUNTAIN.”
A Beautiful Marble Fountain for Chemists and Fruiterers. The most
. economical fountain ever manufactured, outrivalling all American productions,
For further particulars write for our illustrated Catalogues.
ECKERSLEY & SONS, So/e Manufacturers,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
W.A. Agents:
E. H. Fathergfll & Co., Fremantle.
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engine* 4k Water Tube Boiler*, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c., &c,
Sole Agent for Australasia:
WILLIAM FLEMINC, Equitable Buildings, Ceorge St., Sydney.
EXPERIENCE TEACHES
THAT
NESTLE S MILK FO
IS A COMPLETE AND EASILY DIGESTED DIET FOR
?oe/* INFANTS and INVALIDS.
■
'
■A
mm
*» ww m mw n* mw/fm m *? m *»»'f a* «f
“ ~ ‘ -*4 ** **
jl, — „jil ...... .„
; l u * 4l ii«tf ?•r ••****** ** sk **
’ ; W- ■ h & <
m
m
mtm
Hi
**
IS
ft fill
■rrrn
rr
tm>
flit It
w
s«xv
I W£M | 5
1
a
B
Ml
SSI
' %
mm
*aiouaonu hxim aajoou asnoH aiunou NOxaiDNis Noixoae xsau
The New South Wales Railway Commissioners pay tribute
to the excellence of RUBEROID. All the principal engine
houses in the State have been roofed with
RUBEROID ROOFING.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane.
IN OTHER STATES-
Melbourne —Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd.
Adelaide —A. W. Sandford & Co.
Fremantle —J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
Launceston —The Tasmanian Woolgrowers’
Agency Co., Ltd.
Hobakt —William Crosby & Co.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.-No. 1345.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1905.
Prior 6d„
"THE BULLETIN’S” LAY SEBMON.—(Suggested by the Religious Editor.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ A list rn lin for the Austral intis.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Jl ow to A ddrens Betters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not. be there; the official
always is.
Special Aof ice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin ii till return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fomoarded ivithout stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A matent's in ItlacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson A Co., 38 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town ; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Honq Kong.— Breioer and Co., 33 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Breioer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6|in. x llein.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
“ Posters ” will be attached to agents' parcels if The
Bulletin is satisfied they will be displayed.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1905.
XfIAS EDITION
.... OF ....
The Bulletin, 1905,
|HC A Special & Enlarged Issue.
Published on DECEMBER 14.
It ivill contain Verses, Sketches and Stories, grave and
gay, by the foremost writers of the Commonwealth.
The illustrations will represent the best Black and White
ivork in Australia, and will picture the national humor.
Tiie Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year, is the
standard epitome of the life of young Australia.
Agents will be supplied at the usual
rates, but, in consequence of the heavy
outlay on this Special Edition, NO
RETURNS will be accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
be mailed at once.
Single copies post free to any of the Commonwealth
States and Maoriland, 6\d. ; Foreign addresses, Bd.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
NEWSPAPER CONSPIRACY.
The newspaper press is supposed to be a great
agency for good, and while it is so in many
respects, it is also a great conspiracy for evil.
This is the day of the press syndicate, and the
combine, and the big proprietor, who supply the
political opinion of half-a-dozen or a dozen or a
score of papers, and who make a personal preju-
dice, or a personal job, or the grinding of a per-
sonal axe seem like a spontaneous outbreak of
public indignation rising all over the land to pro-
test against a national injury. And the power of
the press syndicate is so vast that it can make
black appear as white, it can make war and make
peace, and though its lie and steal can’t endure for
ever, still they can be a very robust curse while
they last. To take the first of a few recent
instances —it was a sordid press combine which
made the South African war, and with the
blood of thousands of human beings on its head
it still goes on and prospers exceedingly. I he
Transvaal was, of all the countries in the world,
the one which offered the most cordial welcome
and the greatest freedom to the British alien.
The Transvaal allowed him to own practically all
its mineral wealth, while Japan kicks the British
would-be mine-owner out and tells him he is un-
clean and unfit. The Transvaal allowed the alien
to own land, while Japan says he is unfit to own
land. The Transvaal didn’t object when the
alien mopped up nearly all the riches of the coun-
try, and it didn’t hang even one of him when he
rose in rebellion ; but it refused to let him own
its Parliament or to import Chinese slaves, and it
always stood by the white British miner against
his blastiferous German Jew boss. So a huge
German Jew syndicate, which controlled almost
the whole press of South Africa, set to work
to persuade England and the world generally
that the foolishly liberal Transvaal Govern-
ment, which had allowed the alien to possess
almost everything in its country, was some-
thing unique in the way of oppression, and
the Transvaal State went down in blood. These
brutish floggers and torturers of Chinese serfs —
the floggings at one mine have averaged 40 per
day —actually dragged the alleged cause of
humanity into the case, and set up a charge of
“ cruelty to the natives” as one reason why the
Boer, in a political sense, must pass away. It was
a wonderful instance of what newspaper con-
spiracy can effect, but it was far from being a
solitary instance.
* * * *
The same newspaper conspiracy struck Aus-
tralia next. The Australians in South Africa
were a troublesome race with ideas about a white
man’s privileges, with leanings towards trades-
unionism, and with a large abhorrence of China-
men, and of Chinese (or any other kind) of slavery.
They probably said more things about the Chinese
policy of the great German Jew swindlers than
most of the outsiders in South Africa. The Aus-
tralian press and some Australian Legislatures
put in unpleasant protests also against the Chinese
slave system. Then the White Australia policy
gives the German Jew gang exactly the same
reason for hating this country as it had
for hating the Kruger Government in the
Transvaal. The present campaign of lies and
slander against Australia began in the South
African papers ; the same papers which ran exactly
the same campaign against Paul Kruger. It was
carried on in England by the papers which the
South African gang could control or influence. It
spread to the rest of the press which became con-
vinced that where there was so much smoke there
must be a great deal of fire. In Australia a
servile gang of Tories and Tory papers took
up the Stinking Fish policy in the hope
that the storm of obloquy that beat on this
country from all sides would scare the democratic
party, and bring the old retrograde gang
of Tories, Freetraders, land-monopolists, bank-
swindlers, and advocates of nigger and Chinese
labor back into office. Another class of Tories,
who were not malevolent, but only weak-kneed
and foolish, began to be convinced, through hear-
ing the lie so often, that their country had really
done something dreadful by reason of its demo-
cratic policy, and joined the howl of execration,
after the manner of Editor Sowden, of S.A.
Sowden, apparently, had no idea what he had said
about his country till he saw his statements in all
their naked horror in an American paper, and
then he started in a frantic fashion to explain them
away. In Johannesburg, when one Englishman
killed another under horribly brutal circumstances,
and then tried to kill a Welsh policeman who
sought to arrest him, and was shot by the
policeman when the latter found that he had
no other chance of saving his own life, the
newspaper conspiracy called it “the brutal and
unprovoked murder by a Boer of a British
subject named Edgar,” and the storm of obloquy
grew so terrible that the Boer Government was
driven to put the policeman on his trial for mur-
der. In Australia, when the Petriana’s colored
seamen were carefully rescued and sent back
safely to their homes, the newspaper conspiracy
called it something very like murder, and de-
scribed it as a national disgrace. The Melbourne
Argus and the Sydney Telegraph and Herald,
and half a dozen other papers, more or less played
the part in Australia that the floggers and torturers
of Chinese used to do in South Africa. Now that
the newspaper conspiracy has turned against
Australia, this country can partly understand what
kind of an unspeakable fool and an unspeak-
able criminal it was when it helped to butcher
the Boers in a war brought about by exactly
the same process of lying. If Australia had been
a weak foreign State, instead of part of the em-
pire, British troops would probably have been burn-
ing Melbourne and Sydney before now in order
to avenge the allegedly-murdered Petriana niggers,
and to secure 400,000 Chinese coolies to work the
mines of Bendigo, Ballarat, Kalgoorlie, Mount
Morgan, Broken Hill and Charters Towers in the
interests of foreign syndicates.
* * * *
In New South Wales to-day, the Australian
Government is struggling against such a news-
paper conspiracy as the German Jew press ran
against the Kruger Government in the Trans-
vaal, and such as the German Jew press in South
Africa and a section of the English press is now
running against Australia. It is practically a
conspiracy within a conspiracy; the parochial
movement in N.S.W. is part and parcel of the
Stinking Fish movement in and out of Australia.
At its head is the degraded Sydney Telegraph, the
old Freetrade party with its frenzied desire to
destroy Australian industries in the interests of the
importers, and the Carruthers Government—a
little mob of sour and uncivil nonentities which
can only keep itself before the public by sticking
out its tongue at its intellectual superiors, and
by posing as the strong crowd which is saving
the State from some stupendous imaginary
danger. The policy of this conspiracy is exactly
that of the German Jew press against the Kruger
Government, and of a section of the British press
against Australia —everything the Australian
Government does is wrong, and if the Australian
Government reverses its policy, and does the other
thing, that is wrong also. Its theory, put in brief,
is that the people of N.S.W. are quite unfit to
govern themselves if they do it through a Barton
or Watson or Deakin Ministry, and that they
can only rise to be politically something above the
beasts of the field when they govern themselves
wholly through Joe Carruthers, and do it
wholly at Sydney, where the Telegraph can
dictate to the Ministry. And its weapon
is simply that persistent lying which, if
pursued long enough, always convinces a section
of the unthinking. When the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment offered the Dalgety site (among others) as a
possible capital, and withdrew it with foolish
insult as soon as it was accepted, the anti-
Australian newspaper conspiracy really persuaded
a large number of people that in some way a
grievous wrong had been done to N.S.W. By
steady falsehood the Telegraph and S.M.
Herald and other papers have almost persuaded
the public that there is somewhere in the consti-
tution a pledge that the capital is to be not much
over 100 miles from Sydney, that it is to consist
of not much over 100 square miles, that the
N.S.W. State Parliament is to be consulted about
the site—which is much on a par with the story or
the German Jew press in Johannesburg about the
murder of a British subject, and about its desire
for the destruction of the Boer Government
solely that the white Briton might be
free and prosperous and have a vote.
The cries that N.S.W. is being swindled in the
distribution of the surplus, and that it is contrary
to the Constitution to get stamps printed at Ade-
laide, are further features of the same campaign
of fraud, and rank with the alleged drowning of
the Petriana niggers, and the London Statist s
new allegation that Australia is breaking laitli
with its creditors. Nowadays, it is hardly neces-
sary for anyone outside Australia to bear a hand
in the Stinking Fish conspiracy ._ The Sydney
Telegraph, and a few papers which support it,
and the Carruthers Government, and the old
brigade in N.S. W. Parliament, with their constant
assurances that all the States except N.S.W. are
thieves and highway robbers, that all the people
of N.S.W. except those that denounce Federation
are in league with these thieves and robbers, and
that the people of N.S.W. are quite unfit to
govern themselves except through the medium of
the State Parliament bossed by J oseph Car-
ruthers, keep the campaign of slander going
about as well as Australia’s worst enemy could
desire.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Value of a Politician’s Pledge.
Divisions on the initial stages of the National
Library Bill before N.S.W. Assembly show that,
compared with the solemn pledge of some members
of Parliament, a dicer’s oath is quite a respectable
warranty, and the word of honor of a spieler a
trustworthy security. At the last N.S.W. general
elections The Bulletin conducted a campaign for
honest finance, and asked candidates to pledge
themselves to the following platform :
Absolute cessation of borrowing, except for renewal
purposes — i.e., no increase of public debt.
Establishment of a sinking fund for the repayment of
existing debts.
The setting aside of an adequate sum out of revenue
for the maintenance of public works and the construction
of necessary new works. (For new works it is suggested
that the net land revenue of about £1,500,000 per annum
would be a fair provision.)
Some scores did pledge themselves, and of those
who gave this solemn assurance of honesty the
following were returned to the Assembly:—
John Gillies J. R. Dacey
John Hurley Eden George
O. W. Oakes J. B. Nicholson
P. H. Sullivan Hugh Macdonald
J. J. Cohen A. Kelly
G. S. Briner E. Richards
S. J. Kearney F. J. Thomas
A. Millard Tiios. Jessep
E. C. V. Broughton Dr. Arthur
David Fell
In addition, all Labor candidates were required by
the platform of their party (which was reluctant
to go the Whole Honest Hog as proposed by The
Bulletin, but was prepared to go a very long way
in that direction) to pledge themselves against any
further borrowing except for reproductive works
which would return full interest on t'he cost of
construction and also a 1 per cent, contribution to
sinking fund. The proposal of the Carruthers
Government to build a library out of loan money
was as definite an issue as could be raised to test
the fidelity of members to these pledges. A Public
Library building is not a permanent and repro-
ductive work ; it will return no interest and no
contribution to a sinking fund. Arthur Griffith
first challenged the House on this point, and his
direct proposal to build the library out of revenue
was negatived on the following division :
Ayes 13.
Burgess, G.A. MacDonell, D.
Charlton, M. McGarry, P.
Dacey, J.R. McGowen, J.S.T.
Daley, W.M. Scobie, R.
Gardiner, A. Jones, G.A.
Griffith, Arthur Nielsen, N.R.W.
Hollis, R.
Noes 33.
Anderson, R.J. Mahony, W.H.
Anderson, W. McFarlane, J.
Ashton, J. McLaurin, G.R.
Ball, R.T. Moore, S.W.
Booth, R. Morton, M.F.
BRINER, G.S. NICHOLSON, J.B.
Carruthers, J.H. Nobbs, J.
COHEN, J.J. O’Conor, 8.8.
Davidson, R. O’Sullivan, E.W.
Dick, W.T. Perry, J. (Liverpool Plains)
Downes, F.W.A. Robson, W.E.V.
Fallick, J. Waddell, T.
GEORGE, Eden Wade, C.G.
GILLIES, J. Young, W.W.
Henley, J. ARTHUR, Dr. R.
Hogue, J.A. Moxham, T.R.
Lee, C.A.
Thus showing that Arthur, Briner, Cohen,
George, Gillies, and Nicholson are pre-
pared to definitely pledge themselves to a
certain principle, to appeal for support on
that principle, and to accept material help
from the advocates of that principle, and then
rat shamelessly when the question comes to a
test; and further, that some dozen other members,
having pledged themselves to a principle, did not
take the trouble to attend to vote on its behalf.
But these had another chance to retrieve them-
selves, for, next day, Mr. Perry (the Richmond)
moved again that the library be built out of
revenue, and the division on this occasion was :
AGAINST HONESTY, 35.
Anderson, W. McFarlane, J.
Ashton, J. Millard, W.
BROUGHTON, E. C. V. Moore, S. W.
Carruthers, J. H. Morton, M. F.
Davidson, R. Moxham, T. R.
Dick, W. T. NICHOLSON, J. B.
Donaldson, R. T. Nobbs, J.
Downes, F. W. A. Norton, J.
Fallick, J. O’Conor, B. B.
Fegan, J. L. O’Sullivan, E. W.
GEORGE. Eden Perry, J. (Liverpool Plains)
Hogue, J. A. Rf.ynoldson, G.
HURLEY, J. Robson, W. E. V.
JESSEP, T. Waddell, T.
KEARNEY, S. J. Young, J. H.
Lee, C. A. Ball, R. T.
Mackenzie, T. F. H. McLaurin, G. R.
Mahony, W. H.
FOR HONESTY, 11.
Briner, G. S. McGarry, P.
Charlton, M. Perry, J. (The Richmond)
Edden, A. Scobie, R.
Estell, J. Daley, W. M.
Hollis, R. Griffith, Arthur
MacDonell, D.
That division only served to add to the list of
direct traitors the names of Hurley, Broughton,
T. Jessep and S. J. Kearney, making in all ten
members —
Arthur Gillies
Briner Hurley
Broughton Jessep
Cohen Kearney
George Nicholson
(though Briner partly rehabilitated himself by
ciiangiiig on wie bocona envision) wno were
shameless enough to vote directly against a written
election pledge. The incident helps The Bulletin
to understand why a respectable citizen, whom
the Sydney Morning Herald recently accused
of an intention to stand for the N.S.
Wales Parliament, made that paper apologise,
and was inclined to take legal proceedings. To
be charged with an intention to go into Parlia-
ment and sit alongside the traitors and shufflers
listed above is calculated to rouse any honest
man’s anger.
Wilks Hitting Rome.
According to a public announcement made re-
cently in Melbourne by Wilks, Lee, Simian
Phraser and other waste products, their party—
the Foreign-Orange party—proposes to fight the
next Federal election on the religious ticket, with
the Walls of Derry and the Flames of Smithfield
as its principal issues. The same people tried to
fight the last election on the same aged and remote
joke; and when the election after next arrives
they will doubtless be found dragging their dis-
used European shriek over the face of Australia
once more. As regards next election, the plea is
that the Federal Parliament itself dug up the con-
troversy by passing a motion in favor of Home
Rule for Ireland—the same as there is in Canada
and Australia —but as that was a purely political
question, and as Wilks and Phraser bellowed just
as hard about the Walls of Derry at last election
when Parliament had passed no Home Rule motion,
the lie looks a very poor one. There are a dreadful
number of things waiting to be done in Australia,
and it is a pathetically childish business that,
every time an election comes round to decide who
will hustle along the live urgent business of the
country for the next three years, a considerable
section of the people should drop everything and
elect members chiefly on account of their opinions
about a scramble of men with muskets that hap-
pened at a dirty little city on the other side of the
world before the grandfather of anybody now
alive was born. If the man who gets in on the
Walls of Derry or the Flames of Smithfield issue
was of real value for any other purpose, it would
matter very little how he got in ; but, as a rule,
he is a dull ass who arrives by screaming about
the Flames of Smithfield, because the Flames of
Smithfield are just about his size, and he is good
for nothing else. Or if, having got in by
crying about the dangers of Rome, these people
had any programme for lessening or abolishing
the dangers of Rome, then the position would be
at least comprehensible. But they neither pro-
pose to abolish Roman Catholic churches and
schools, nor to disfranchise Roman Catholic
voters, nor to shut out Roman Catholics from
Parliament and the Civil Service, nor to do any-
thing at all that will depress Rome. They do,
certainly, demand that customs duties should be
abolished so that the mostly-Protestant Austra-
lian workman may lose his job, and the goods he
used to make be replaced to a great extent by the
products of the Roman Catholic of Belgium,
France, Austria, Italy, and Southern Germany,
but that isn’t supposed to be a religious issue.
Apart from the customs question and the desire
to import Roman Catholic products, it seems that
the only reason why we should hate Rome is to
get Wilks a job, and when Wilks has got the
job he does nothing to suppress Rome. If
the country must have an Orange vote it
is time, and more than time, that Wilks
was sent to earn an honest living in the retail
wood and coal business, and his place taken by a
live Orangeman, who will really hit Rome in the
eye, and rush the Scarlet Woman off the premises
as an undesirable emigrant. What has Wilks
done to Rome in his 11 years of political life to
justify his re-election ? Is there a single crack in
Rome that Wilks has made? The census of
1871, and again those of ’Bl and ’9l, showed that
Rome was a diminishing quantity in N.S.W. It
represented first 293 people out of every 1000
inhabitants; then 276 ; then (in 1891) only 255.
After that, in 1894, N.S.W. elected Wilks to give
Rome a shove that would finally send her over the
precipice, and the census of 1901 showed that
Rome represented 260 out of e\ ery 1000 Cornstalk
citizens. It began to increase and multiply as
soon as Wilks arrived. The inference, therefore,
is that either Wilks is wholly inefficient, and
that Rome is too big a contract for him, or else
that he is a traitor who is secretly propping up
Rome and repairing its walls in the night.
Either way, Orangeism plainly wants somebody
who can do things as well as talk. If Rome
doesn’t show signs of decadence before next year
the whole of the present Orange push should lose
their seats in the Australian Parliament and make
room for a crowd that can leave a visible dent on
Rome when they hit it.
The Eldest Sons of Britain.
Two cablegrams from England, both bearing on
the unemployed question, appeared almost side
by side the other day :
Replying to a deputation representing the London
unemployed, the Prime Minister gave his reasons for
refusing State aid and for not summoning a winter session
of Parliament. One of Mr. Balfour’s arguments was that
State aid was calculated to destroy the enterprise of
capitalists and the energy and fibre of the workmen.
Speaking at Basingstoke, Mr. H. H. Asquith, M.P.,
attributed the existing misery and pauperism in England
to the Government’s profligate extravagance.
There is something almost pathetic about the
anxiety of people like Balfour not to destroy the
“energy and fibre” of the poor by saving them
from starvation, and about the way he goes forth
languidly to play “ goff,” in full reliance that the
unemployed will pull through by their own bull-
dog pluck. And, on the other hand, there is
Asquith, who only sees in the popular hunger
and misery a reason why his crowd should get
Balfour’s job, and only recognises in thedead body
of the seamstress, who died because she couldn’t
live on lOd. a day, something to step on as he
climbs into office. Britain is a tolerably rich
country. Its wealth is estimated at £3OO per
inhabitant, or £I2OO for the average family. Yet
there are more deaths from hunger in London m
an average year than in France, Denmark and
Prussia combined. Except in Russia, Europe has
no poverty to show like that of England. Its
whole political system aims an keeping a small
body of men immensely rich, whereby an im-
mensely large body must be horribly and incre-
dibly poor. Its law of property and the traditions
of its propertied families hand down the estate to
the Eldest Son, so that the big pile may not be
divided, and subdivided, and thus cause a more
general diffusion of wealth. The British law
believes, as far as possible, in keeping the heap of
wealth together, in disinheriting as many of the
relations as possible, in retaining the land m the
fewest possible hands, and in promoting monopoly.
Wherever there is an estate and ten descendants,
British law aims at making one so rich that he
will probably become a disease a person who is
constantly seeking for new pleasures to buy with
liis money, and finding very little pleasure after
all—and at making the others so poor that rAm*
descendants, in a few generations, will probab y


have “gone under.” If Britain had a law for the
subdivision of estates and fortunes among the
children of the deceased owner, a very tew
generations would probably see such a dirrusion
of wealth set in that the pall of misery would be
perceptibly lifted. But it believes with a pathetic
and horrible belief in having a few enormously
bloated Eldest Sons, some of whom hardly know
how to get rid of their mountains of gold, and at
the other end of the scale millions of starving
wretches for whom there is no hope, no
country, no patriotism, no God and no pros-
pect here or hereafter. Now and then a
deputation of this accumulated woe manages to
get the ear of the ruling coterie of Eldest Sons,
and asks blindly why these horrors should be.
And the Eldest Sons, if they are of the crowd in
office, say that it is unaccountable, that it is a dis-
pensation of Providence, and that the bulldog
pluck of the British race must pull them through
—which is rough on the people who, through
living eight in a room and trying to exist on 2d. a
day, have no pluck left, and who would gladly eat a
bulldog if they could steal one. And the Eldest
Sons, if they happen to be out of office, generally
reckon that the trouble arises through the other
crowd of Eldest Sons "being in office. Neither
crowd can be expected to suggest that the disease
has its principal root in the policy of Eldest Sons.
Finally, having cleared the matter up, the Eldest
Sons generally go back to their ancestral castles
and play “goff,” or go shooting over the wilder-
nesses which were once pasture and corn land
before the Eldest Sons turned the people out to
starve, and began growing wild animals where the
country used to grow British citizens. Some day,
perhaps, when the outer world grows more
crowded, and emigration no longer supplies a
partial outlet for the surplus misery, Britain will
acquire sense enough to have a revolution, to
break up its big estates among hundreds of thou-
sands of small farmers, each farming his own land,
and to hang its Eldest Sons.
♦
Woollens and Wages.
The decision of the Australian Woollen Co., of
Footscray (Victoria), to close up—a decision to
which it has been driven by constantly-increasing
losses—should be something for the Freetrade
section of the Labor party to think over very
hard. The Australian Woollen Co. started under
the old Victorian tariff of 25 per cent, on tweeds
and from 15 to 35 per cent, on other woollens.
Under the Federal tariff which cut down the duty
on tweeds to 15 per cent, and made heavy reduc-
tions in all other lines (on flannels, which formed
a large part of the Victorian industry, the duty
was cut down one half) it did very badly, like all
the other Victorian mills. To this fact the Free-
trader replies with a short sharp yelp to the effect
that the N.S.W. woollen mills are getting along
moderately well on the whole under the same
tariff (though they also showed a slight falling off
last year), and it is the Victorians’ own fault if
they can’t do just as well (even if that well
isn’t nearly so good as it might be). But
it isn’t their fault —at least not wholly so ; it is to
a great extent a question of wages. Woollen mills
employ about as many women as men, the figures,
at the time of the latest* issue of Coghlan’s
“Statistical Account of Australia and Maoriland”
(1904) being, for the Commonwealth, 961 males and
896 females. (Maoriland, which charges duties of
20 per cent, and upwards, against the Common-
wealth’s 15 per cent., has a woollen industry
employing 727 males and 965 females.) And the
average wages according to Cogiilan were :
Average of
Low Tariff States. Wages per Week, one man and
Men. Women, one woman.
N.S.W. .. £l3 7 £0 12 11 £0 18 3
Victoria .. 136 0 17 8 107
High Tariff State.
Maoriland .. 1 15 9 0 16 11 1 6 4
Therein lies at least part of the explanation.
N.S.W. keeps its woollen industry going under
the low tariff by paying the lowest rate of wages,
though the reduction of its mills from five to three
suggests that, in N.S.W. also, the wages have
been pushed up quite as high as the ill-pro-
tected industry can stand. Victoria pays higher
wages it got into that habit when it
had its own tariff and before a Federal
Labor party, at the instance of the Foreign-
trade section, turned dog on its own class
—and it is doing worse than N.S.W. The extra
wage turns the scale and makes it impossible to
compete, at the decent hours and conditions which
prevail in Australia, with the foreign importer.
Maoriland, with a higher tariff, is not only able to
support a woollen industry almost as large as that
of all Australia and Tasmania put together, but
to pay better wages than the best Australian
average. Victoria is apparently almost “up
against” this alternative: in the woollen indus-
try, if the present tariff lasts, the employees must
either take less wages, or else lose their employ-
ment and take no wages at all. The ‘ ‘ bloated
manufacturer ” is already getting, in a good many
cases, nothing per cent., so he can’t well be cut
any further. It is for the Labor party to
consider the position. It sank the fiscal issue
at the instance of a small section of
Laborites, mostly from N.S.W. By so doing it is
crippling industries, reducing wages, destroying
employment, and doing the dirty work of the rich
Tory importer, with his underpaid and mostly
non-union employees. If the Labor party con-
tinues to do that sort of thing it can hardly die too
soon, for a Labor party which regards the finding
of regular and profitable work for the people as no
part of its business has taken the wrong name.
It has been said that the question of high Pro-
tection for Australian industries can’t be raised
without splitting the party, but if that is so the
party can’t split too quickly. Then the really Aus-
tralian section of it may do some good work,
while the section which is foreign and anti-Aus-
tralian at heart can gravitate quite naturally to
its old friend Joe Cook. It is better that half of
the party should remain alive than that the whole
of it should remain dead, and on the most urgent
question in Australian politics the Labor party is
now not only dead—it is buried.
♦
Another Parson on Black Australia.
Again the parson—a Westralian parson this
time—as reported in the S.M. Herald :
Perth (W.A.), Wednesday.
Speaking ai. the general assembly of the Presbyterian
Church of Western Australia, last night, the Moderator,
the Rev. G. Brewstf.r, made an attack on the White Aus-
tralia policy. “ What about the heathenish, selfish cry
for a White Australia ? ” he asked. He did not care if he
had all Australia or all the world against him. He would
stand by God and His Word, and say that no man could
remain a Christian and look down on his black brethren.
The day that a man thought less of his brother, be he
black, white, yellow or brown, than himself, that day he
would become disloyal to the Cross of Christ. Could
they for a moment think that God, who had made of one
flesh all nations of the world to dwell together, would
allow a handful of feeble godless creatures to keep this
glorious continent locked up for themselves, when they
could neither use it nor populate it ?
Rev. Brewster is at least a downright parson, and
probably thinks he is sincere. It is utterly false
to say that Australians can’t populate Australia ;
things are not so good as they should be, but still
the people of Australia are continuously increas-
ing, and this country has grown almost as much
population in its first 130 years as Canada did in
its first 300 years; but the poor ignorant
preacher can’t be expected to know that.
It is also shamefully false that Australians
don’t use their country; things are far from
being what they should be, and the rich
landlord blocks settlement, and the rich
importer blocks manufactures, but when a new
country like this exports nearly twice as much as
China, and supplies the United Kingdom with
nearly twice as much goods as India, it is doing
something. Still a mere excited sin-shifter who
doesn’t study his subject, but simply yells, can’t be
expected to understand anythinglikethat. And the
Rev. Brewster obviously thinks he is sincere. No
doubt, seeing that he holds that Europeans, China-
men, Indians and the like are all perfectly equal,
he invites Chinamen and Brahmins and negroes to
dine at his table, to show that his Christianity is
real and not mere advertisement and hypocrisy ;
and he asks the Jap and the Hindu into his draw-
ing room; and if Sambo or Ah Sin, as a perfect
equal and a complete brother, asked for his
daughter or his sister in marriage he would throw
no obstacles in the way. If he did he would
obviously be “disloyal to the cross of Christ.”
Probably he even lives in the Chinese quarter of his
town to show that his faith in the equality of
races is genuine, and that the Asiatic is our equal
even in cleanliness. If he doesn’t live in the
Chinese quarter it is an oversight. And seeing
that he holds the Hindu and the other colored
races of the empire as being quite equal to the
whites, he has probably said dreadful things in
public about the policy by which the whole
control of the vast British empire is reserved to a
comparative handful of whites, about 55,000,000 in
all, while some 330,000,000 colored people have no
more self-government, and no more share in the
control of the empire of which they form the
greatest part, than the cows in English paddocks.
And in denouncing this sin he has assuredly
been driven to call Edward YII. a godless
ruffian, and the whole British Parliament a
disgrace to Christianity. Probably he has
even denounced missions to the so-called
“heathen,” as an arrogant proceeding, by
which the white man pretends to be better
and wiser than a colored brother who is really
quite as good as he is, and quite as likely to be
right in his beliefs, and whose Mumb'o Jumbo may
be every bit as true as Parson Brewster’s Pres-
byterianism. The Bulletin hopes that Parson
Brewster has given these proofs of sincerity.
For if he hasn’t there may arise a tendency to
regard him as one of the virulent crawling
things that go on all fours after the rich,
and who only maintain the “rights” of the
colored man when it is a question of letting
him into Australia to supply the Tory employer
with cheap labor and to starve the white workman
out of a job. People may even look up the dusty,
neglected Scripture in search of a forgotten
passage in Luke, which denounces woe on those
who “lade men with burdens grievous to
be borne, and ye yourselves touch not the
burdens with one of your fingers,” and which
seems to imply that the hell, which the parson
talks so much about, is yawning for that kind of
character by reason of his hypocrisy, his time-
serving, and his capacity for finding out that
God is always on the side of the affluent. The
poorer class of worker has to live alongside
the Chinaman, to compete with him for
employment, and to have his daughters exposed
to the blandishments of the heathen’s opium den.
And the Rev. Brewster, with his cheerful
willingness that someone else should hump these
burdens while his own job is safe from cheap
Asiatic competition, is apt to be mixed up by the
unthinking with that Divine curse in the Gospel
of Luke, unless he gives very solid proof to the
contrary.
♦
Australia’s Back Door.
S. Australia’s attitude with regard to the
Northern Territory is becoming one of sheer
despair and hopelessness. It has practically given
up all idea of making the settlement pay its way.
For the current year the estimate of expenditure,
just tabled in the S. Australian Assembly, is
£180,538, and only £57,286 of revenue is expected,
leaving a deficit ,of £123,252. Already the total
debt of the Territory is £2,904,676, or over £BOO
per head of the population ! S. Australia’s atti-
tude is, in effect —“The debt is so vast; what
does it matter if it is a little vaster?” Of course,
S. Australia is responsible for this debt. But it
knows that its responsibility is only nominal. It
never expects that it will itself have to make the
debt good. It knows that, sooner or later,
the Commonwealth will—must—take the Ter-
ritory over. South Australia is thus in the
position of a person provided with another man’s
promissory notes in blank ; and it is filling them
in at the rate of £125,000 a year. From any and
every point of. view this is folly which ought to
stop. It is absurd that the authority which
eventually will have to deal with the piper should
pass on to somebody else the calling of the tune.
The Commonwealth is as much on the spot as S.
Australia is ; in fact, until the transcontinental
line is built, the Territory could be better con-
trolled from either Melbourne, Sydney, or Bris-
bane than from Adelaide. But, even apart from
that, there can be no earthly sense in the Common-
wealth letting a trouble, which it will have to face
some day, grow in the hands of the State authority
which has really given the business up as a bad
job, and now simply lets things drift.
+
A Long-Lived Freetrade Lie.
N.S.W. Department of Labor report for 1904
remarks :
During the hearing of a dispute before the Arbitration
Court about the middle of the year, a statement was
made by one of the legal practitioners that, in the opinion
of the police, the Eariy Closing Act was the cause of girls
being drawn into habits of loitering about the streets.
Inquiries having been made by the Inspector-General of
Police, he reported that the police gave an absolute denial
to the statement, and regarded the same as a gross libel
on the vast number of shop girls concerned. The de-
partmental inspectors were in a position to deny the
truth of these uncalled-for remarks, and it was also
proved that the number of female students attending the
Technical College classes since this Act came into opera-
tion had increased over 35 per cent.
Curious the vitality of a lie ! This yarn—that if
the working classes were given more leisure
for enjoyment they would certainly make beasts
of themselves; and that, therefore, long hours
of labor must be maintained in the interests of
morality—was one of the stock arguments of the
old Freetrade “ economists ” in England. Now,
it is revived in N.S. Wales in the 20th century !
The Bulletin is game to wager, in the dark, that
“the legal practitioner” responsible for its re-
vival is a stout pillar of the Freetrade cause in
Sydney.
Morgan Takes a Risk.
Premier Morgan, of Queensland, has swallowed
his scruples, and agreed to a syndicate rail-
way to open up the alleged mineral wealth
of the Gulf. A syndicate railway is a hard
thing to swallow at any time; but for Morgan
and his allies it can be said, anyway, that they
were between a devil with a very sharp tail and a
sea with a bottom that Queensland can barely
touch. The Gulf mineral country cannot be
developed without a railway; and the Govern-
ment certainly wouldn’t be justified in building a
railway. If the unproved mines petered out, the
railway would be merely two streaks of steel
running through poorish pastoral country, with
never a hope of closer settlement. At the
best, since it runs up to the Gulf, it empties
itself into a port where lightering will be
necessary: and that would be an extra handi-
cap on agriculture, even if agriculture were
otherwise possible. Further, though it is a syn-
dicate railway, the original mining syndicate—
the Queensland S.L. Mining Co. —and the tram-
way syndicate are practically one and the same.
In N.S.W. a mining co. could take up a line-track
on lease and build a line without asking for Par-
liamentary authority; and the solidly-established
principle that the people must own the ways of
communication isn’t thereby seriously impaired.
The Queensland case has points of resemblance to
this. Almost the last Bill that a mining-railway-
syndicate did put through in N.S.W. was by the
Tarrawingee Co. The line cost something over
£lOO,OOO, and, inside ten years, the State was im-
plored to take it over for about £15,000. There is
no mine for it to serve now—a train runs over it
once a week or so, and occasionally has a
bale of wool to carry. If Morgan were justified
in building a similar N.Q. line, he would be also
j ustified in pushing the State into mine-speculation.
To do it on borrowed money would be unthink-
able ; and with a House of Fat to fight at every
step, and with the heaviest interest bill per head
on earth to struggle with, Morgan has too much
difficulty in getting revenue for the solid things,
to think seriously of taking any of it for the
gambles. So Morgan and his allies may be
spared the dead cat of scorn and the brick of
punishment that Australia does well to save up
for the railway-syndicate-monger. It is possible
that Queensland may yet have to throw the dead
cat at itself over the business —it depends upon
how it turns out. All that it can do meantime,
having tried a dangerous experiment, is to see
how it pans out before trying any more of the
same kind.
Victorian Laborites.
Victorian Laborites, if not inside, certainly out-
side Parliament, seem to be suffering from decay
of energy. A conference of delegates has been
sitting for some weeks at the Trades Hall consider-
ing the problem of lack of employment. There
are over 100 representatives, of whom about 30
attend on an average ; one or two societies have
already withdrawn their delegates in disgust.
Various abstruse and entirely theoretical propo-
sals have been mooted and tentatively adopted,
but the practical work of the conference has been
nil. Certainly Tom Mann has animadverted on
the sufficiency of a six-hours day, while one or two
delegates have gone several better and assured
their hearers that a two-hours day would suffice to
keep the worker up to his present standard of living.
At a recent meeting, however, one delegate got
tired of these didactic, speculative vaporings and
remarked that progressive legislation to protect
wage-earners and to cope with the unemployed
difficulty was an absolute farce unless it were pre-
ceded by the imposition of a Protective tariff.
Thereupon several delegates fell on him with great
tonnage, and asked whether he would vote for a
Freetrader who was supported by the Labor
party or a Protectionist who wasn’t. The
answer was straight— ‘ ‘ For the Protectionist every
time; ” and this delegate narrowly escaped
being thrown out on his ear. This con-
ference is supposed to be considering the
problem of unemployment, yet apparently dele-
gates can’t understand that the chief cause
of unemployment is want of work, and that
while Australia imports some £40,000,000 worth
of goods annually, nearly all of which might be
made here, there is certain to be a lack of em-
ployment. Also, they don’t seem to grasp the fact
that, were these goods made here, the country
would not only have the goods, but also the money
paid for producing and manufacturing them, and
would therefore be so much the richer at the end
of each year. When the money is in the country
there is some chance for the party which
aims at a fair division of wealth, but if there
isn’t money to divide it can’t be divided.
No paper recognises more than The Bulletin
that it is a huge calamity for 'Victoria’s fertile
Western District to be monopolised by a knot of
huge land-grabbers, but that' is better than haying
no fertile Western District at all. While it is
there, the people will recover it some day, and if
it wasn’t there they wouldn’t. The same rule
applies to many other forms of wealth.
The Marriage Shop Scandal.
From the N.S.W. Parliamentary records of last
week :
Mr. Sullivan asked the Colonial Secretary: Has his
attention been called to the actions of the people con-
ducting' Marriage Establishments in the city, and will he
consider the advisability of taking their licenses from
them ?
Mr. Hogue answered : The fact that certain people are
conducting places for the solemnisation of marriages is,
of course, known, but as the law stands, there is a diffi-
culty in dealing with the persons associated with these
institutions.
This professes to be a “good” Government, a
Government of Josephites, but it can answer
nothing but a weak non possum when asked if it
will put an end to one of the grave social
scandals of the city. In some of the marriage
shops of Sydney often conducted by some
broken-down and disreputable clergyman —the
most serious contract of life can be entered into at
a moment’s notice, and by practically anybody who
has the small fee to pay. Cases have come before
the courts of drunken persons being married in
these shops, of others being forced into wedlock,
of others being persuaded into bigamous alliances.
Apart from these cases, there can be no doubt that
some harm results to the community from the
degrading of the marriage ceremony by its
celebration in such places, by couples who
in some instances seem to adjourn to the
Domain for their honeymoon. Yet the remedy
is so obvious that there is no need for the
evil to exist another month if the Government
is willing to take action. Let the law insist that
the marriage ceremony shall in every case
be a civil one before a duly authorised
officer of the State—as is the law in most Euro-
pean countries. The Law should make the civil
marriage alone binding, whilst leaving to lovers
the option of taking part in any subsequent or
preceding church ceremonies. The idea is not to
abolish the church rite, but to make the civil rite
the essential one. Such a law would sweep away
the evils of the marriage shop—the drunken wed-
ding, the casual wedding arranged at the street
corner, the forced wedding in which one or other
party is a victim to fraud or fear—for all unions
would have to be sanctioned by the State official,
who would have no fee inducement to make him
willing to marry anybody anyhow.
♦
Even in the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners’ re-
ports, which consist mostly of large slabs of
figures, there is some pathos. One return shows
regularly “ the removals of employees from the
service ” for the preceding quarter; and two-
thirds of the “removals” in the mechanical engi-
neer’s department run like this : “ Brown, John,
apprentice, ss. per day ; apprenticeship expired.”
In the last three months 15 engineering appren-
tices were thus passed out; the State had taught
them their business, and then couldn’t or
wouldn’t find any further use for them—and mean-
time it was sending to foreign countries for
engines, on the ground, among others’, that
it could - not get them built here fast
enough. In the same quarter, though it
couldn’t or wouldn’t employ the men it had
trained, it engaged 19 apprentices in the same
department, putting them on at lOd. per day;
and in five years time it looks as though this 19,
and the 19 or so who are taken on every quarter,
will be passed out, too. Then when those trained
mechanics ask for work, we shall probably make
some remarks concerning our great natural
resources, and tell them to go on the land, where
they won’t know barley from a Scotch thistle ;
and the Labor party will manfully “sink the fiscal
issue” and let the work that the country has
trained these young Australians to do come in
from Belgium or Brummagen or somewhere. If
this country puts up one sign, “No factories
wanted here,” in fairness to these youngsters it
ought also to put up another one—“ No appren-
tices wanted here.” They ought to be warned
from the start that their purpose in life is to
wrestle with chick-weed and cultivate the
acquaintance of the cow.
Speaking of the scenes in the House of Representa-
tives when Attorney-General Isaacs was fighting
the stonewall, Sydney Telegraph threw in this
bit of description (the parentheses are not the
Telegraph’s) :
The demoralisation soon became worse. The Speaker
retired, and Dr. Salmon, the Chairman of Committees,
took his place. Some members brought in blankets and
pillows, and lay prone on the benches. The Deputy-
Speaker ruled one of Mr. Fuller’s (of N.S.W.) arguments
out of order. Mr. Conroy (of N.S.W.) proposed to dissent
from the ruling. Some disorder followed. Mr. Conroy
(of N.S.W.) was named for standing and shouting out
something. He expressed regret, and the naming was
withdrawn. Then Mr. Fuller (of N.S.W.) moved dissent
from the previous ruling. Mr. Conroy (of N.S.W.) ob-
jected to members bringing in bed-clothes and sprawling
about the benches, tucked up in blankets and lying- on
pillow’s. While this was being discussed great disorder
prevailed. The Deputy-Speaker seemed temporarily to
lose all control of the Chamber. He named Mr. Joseph
Cook (of N.S. W.). There was a scene of great excitement.
Order, after great difficulty, w’as restored. Mr. Cook (of
N.S.W.) withdrew some remarks that had offended the
Deputy-Speaker. . . . Mr. Deakin never saw any of these
scenes. He was probably dreaming of that Federation
which w’as to be sacred as a shrine, or ruminating on the
splendid results which, under his direction, it was
achieving.
But when Deakin advocated Federation, how was
he to know that this small minority of shrieking
lunatics from N.S.W. was going to turn the legis-
lative hall into a bear-garden every time it wasn’t
allowed to have exactly its own way in deciding
what business was to be done ?
♦
The agitation that has recently been going on
among the wharf laborers of Sydney against the
award of the Arbitration Court is a matter that
every friend of the Arbitration principle must
deeply regret. The whole purpose of Arbitration
is to promote industrial peace, and to prevent
strikes, or anything that even colorably resembles
strikes. Of course, either party may rebel against
an Arbitration award, and when that happens the
law has extensive pow’ers to compel obedience. But
every time one or other of the parties talks
rebellion it is a misfortune ; and when any party
discusses possible ways and means whereby it
may refuse to obey an award, and yet avoid the
penalty of disobedience on some technical point,
it simply seeks to prove that Arbitration is a
failure. If the wharf laborers succeeded in evading
the award of the court, they would thereby
have proved that, in this particular case, Arbitra-
tion had been a failure, which would provide
the Tory party with a more plausible argument
than any it has yet possessed for demanding the
abolition of the law. Of course, the fact will
remain that the Tory himself, when the award of
an ordinary civil court goes against him, resists it
to the bitter end, and appeals over and over again,
and tries to dodge the award on every possible
side issue, and leaves no stone unturned in his
efforts to bring the law into contempt and to
prove the whole system of justice is a failure, and
that he flatly disobeys the courts as far as
lie dares. But that won’t prevent him declaring
Arbitration a discredited thing if the employees
A Ballad of Stinking Fish.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lo ! a song is sung with a blatant tongue as shrill
as the Fiend could wish ;
Take round the hat for the sake of Fat and his
Ballad of Stinking Fish !
Let others sing of arms that cling, and build the
wanton rhyme;
Fat’s only theme is ancient bream and ’couta past
its prime.
Some bards prefer to chant of myrrh and Love’s
white-odored breast;
Fat trills one song of perfume strong and trills the
same with zest.
’Tis never a lay of music gay, or of dancers’ skirts
a-swish —
Fat fills the street with his chanson sweet—his
Ballad of Stinking Fish !
And around the world that song is hurled by each
itinerant Fat
From all hotels that Tory swells are wont to tarry
at.
Oh, he chants that tune in the first saloon at
Naples and Bombay;
Yea, he sings that song at far Hong-Kong, at
Paris and Mandalay.
From Cheop’s crest ’tis blown with zest across
the turbid Nile;
In ’Frisco-town that ballad brown is reeled off by
the mile.
There’s never a spot where that human blot doesn’t
bang his loud tin-dish —
Where he does not sing that fearsome thing—his
Ballad of Stinking Fish ;
vio.
GRANT HRRVEY.


adopt his own villainous methods, and it would be
a regrettable circumstance if they did so. The
Tory’s example is at all times a good one not to
follow.
«■ —-
At Last a Move.
Prime Minister Deakin suddenly shed his affa-
bility last week. N.S.W. Premier Joseph
Carruthers was shocked to get from him a firm,
dignified letter, in which all the little shifts and
evasions and quibbles of that clamorous insect
on the Federal capital site question were merci-
lessly reviewed. Short of publicly spanking
Joseph, the Prime Minister could not have more
effectively rebuked and shamed him. Then, turning
to the Federal Opposition, the other insect which
has been holding up Federal business, Deakin
made to it also some firm remarks. The
political larrikins who misrepresent the bulk of
New South Wales in the Australian Parliament
were so shocked by the Prime Minister’s intima-
tion that tom-foolery must cease and business
begin, that they converted Parliamentary proceed-
ings into a riot, and for long weary stretches bad
language, bad air and bad manners filled the halls of
legislature. For 57i hours last week the riot of
tongues continued, and this week opened with
Babel still in full blast and the Government still
firmly facing the howling pack of the Opposition.
It was a repetition of the Foreign-trade party’s
tactics, which nearly killed C. C. Kingston and
made a wreck of George Turner’s health, and
succeeded in completely wrecking many an Aus-
tralian home by whittling away the tariff; only
that it raged more furiously since it was met
with more firmness than Barton was able to
summon up. The end was a victory for
decency and good government. On Monday an
exhausted Opposition agreed that if ordinary
sittings were resumed, the debate on the closure
resolutions would finish on Thursday. The
Bulletin trusts that, having won after an arduous
struggle, Prime Minister Deakin will now make
no concession to the beaten Opposition, but will
enter on next week’s business armed with full
powers to suppress any disorderly debate. The
men who stand against him deserve no con-
sideration and no courtesy. They follow
wild-beast tactics in their political warfare,
and when beaten into submission should be
trusted as much as wild beasts —as much and no
more. A feature of this new development of
firmness in politics has been the frenzied efforts of
the Foreign-trade press to mislead the public into
the belief that, in proposing to give the Federal
House of Representatives power to closure useless
and disorderly debate, Deakin was bringing
forward a novel and tyrannous scheme. As a
matter of fact, every civilised Parliament has
such power. The House of Commons has it;
every State legislature of Australia has it; G. H.
Reid, when holding office under the whip of
the Labor party in the N.S.W. State Parliament,
used it mercilessly to push through the Foreign-
trade tariff with which he sent the workers from the
factories to the sand-hill relief works. The Aus-
tralian Parliament was, so far as The Bulletin
knows, the only Parliament in the world without
a closure Standing Order, and that was because
it was practically without any Standing Orders at
all, the work of framing rules of debate having
been neglected by the first Ministry. The absence
of law has given the Foreign-trade Opposition a
chance of showing its love for anarchy and rowdy-
ness. For the future there is to be some curb—it
is to be hoped an effectual curb.
♦
A Remarkable Judge.
According to the news columns of Sydney Tele-
graph (21/11/’O5), N.S.W. Judge Rogers made
some quaint remarks in the case of a man named
Norris. This is the D.T. report:—
John Norris, described as a mechanical engineer, was
indicted for aiding and abetting a man named Dreager,
now in gaol, who had been found by night with house-
breaking implements in his possession. Dreager and
Norris were acquaintances of some months standing, and
Norris had given the police the information which had
secured Dreager’s arrest. Dreager- declared that
Norris had given him the tools, and otherwise
assisted him in a contemplated burglary, while Norris’s
story was that Dreager told him that he intended
committing a robbery, and he informed the police. . . .
The jury found Norris guilty, and it was then sought to
have him released on probation. His employer came for-
ward and declared that he was one of the best men he
had ever had. He was honest, and could do work of a
class which had never before been done in the State, but
had to be sent away to England. His shop was open to
the man whenever he could return. Norris’s wife, lead-
ing their little daughter by the hand, also made a
piteous appeal to his Honor on her husband’s behalf.
He was her only means of support. . . . His Honor said
prisoner was apparently one of the very tradesmen wanted
in the country, if they were not kept out by “ this dog-
in-the-manger Federal legislation. We want the best
people out here, not the second best,” added his Honor.
“ The whole thing is terribly disastrous to the country, I
think, speaking as a New South Welshman.”
From the same issue :
His Honor, refusing an application made on behalf of
the prisoner that he should be released on probation
under the First Offenders Act, sentenced Norris to a
term of six months’ imprisonment with hard labor.
It is surely time that someone in authority asked
this silly judge what he was thinking about. No
Federal law or dog-in-the-manger policy had kept
the valuable Nohris out of Australia. He was
obviously and plainly there. Even a drunk could
have seen that he was there, and his presence
gives a flat contradiction to Rogers’ amazing
remarks about such valuable people as he not
being admitted. And then, after declaring that
Norris was just the sort of man the country
wanted, and almost weeping over his preciousness,
Rogers hadn’t the moral courage to back his
opinion by releasing him under the First Offen-
ders Act, so that the country could get the benefit
of him. He apparently believed Norris was
innocent. He was fully empowered by law to set
him free under the F.O. Act. He was impressed
with the appeal of the wife and child, with
probably hunger before them if he
sent Norris to gaol. And then he
covered his retreat with irrelevant
and useless denunciation of a law
that had nothing to do with the
case, and after his foolish attempt to
bring the law into contempt he sent
the bread-winner to gaol. It was
desperately cold comfort for the
wife and child who can’t feed on his
Honor’s weeps about Federal legis-
lation ; the most callous person who
ever sat on the bench couldn’t
have given them anything much
colder than what they got from
his sympathetic and deeply-moved
Honor. Apparently either Judge
Rogers believes that “the very
tradesmen wanted in this country ”
are criminals and accomplices of
house-breakers, or he believed that
Norris wasn’t a criminal, yet hadn’t
the courage to set him free as the
law permitted.
Sec. Niel Nielsen, of N.S.W. Parliamentary
Labor party, writes :
Bulletin (Nov. 16) says that only three members of the
Labor party, Griffith, Meehan, and Miller., voted
against building the new Public Library with borrowed
money. As a matter of fact the motion for which only
three members of the Labor party voted was to put the
library in Government House. Mr. Griffith’s motion,
moved later on, that the library be built out of revenue,
was voted for by 13 members of the Labor party.
Fact is that, when Solemn Lee proposed that
the work be done, Griffith asked whether the
money was to come out of loans. Lee
replied that it was to be got that way. At once
Griffith said (D.T. report, Nov. 8) that “this
was another proposal to invest loan money in a
non-revenue-producing undertaking, and the
Labor party, to which he belonged, was opposed
to that.” He therefore proposed that the work
be referred back to the Works Committee, with a
view to inquire as to using Government House
for a library, and thus preventing the expendi-
ture of loan money on a non-productive work.
And, though the Minister had announced that if
his proposal was carried it meant using loan
money for this unproductive work, only two
members voted with Griffith to send the pro-
posal back to the Committee in order to avoid
smashing one of the Labor party’s planks. Sub-
sequently, Griffith having failed to save the
party that way, a direct motion that the work be
paid for out of revenue was submitted ; and the
13 members of the Labor party who voted for it
deserve the credit a man should have for
doing what he has pledged himself to do. What
ought to happen to the others of the party who
didn’t trouble to do even that much is another
matter.
■ ♦
Sydney Telegraph in its alleged “reports” of the
Federal Parliament, lies with a venom and perti-
nacity that passes all bounds even of political party
journalism. For instance, Nov. 16 :
Only a month or two ago, when proceedings did not
please some of the Labor supporters of the Government,
Mr. Deakin rushed down to the House in a fume and
tabled some extraordinary proposals to allow members
playing billiards to be counted as present and doing their
Parliamentary work. This fantastic scheme he abandoned
almost as soon as he submitted it.
Those “extraordinary proposals” did not amount
to what the Telegraph says. Let that pass:
where there is the slightest opening for misrepre-
sentation or vilification the Telegraph may take
license. But the statement that Mr. Deakin aban-
doned the proposed new Standing Order (that, on
the attention of the Speaker being called to the
state of the House, he need not “count the House”
if he were satisfied of a quorum being within its
precincts ready to do business) is no twisting or
mere misrepresentation. It’s a straight-out false-
hood, and its falseness must be within the know-
ledge of that journal, unless it is prepared to plead
guilty to a shocking degree of ignorance of Parlia-
mentary procedure. The proposed new Standing
Order is still among the draft Standing Orders,
awaiting the adoption of the House.
+
The Sydney afternoon-tea gossips, who call them-
selves the “ Australian Women’s League,” got a
mild shock at a recent foregathering. It was
moved and seconded that colored laborers should
be admitted to tropical Australia for the “de-
velopment of its natural resources,” and the
meeting received the idea enthusiastically, and
said “how nice,” or words to that effect. Then
a Miss Breciienridge, a visiting ex-president of
the largest women’s club in San Antonio, Texas
U.S.A.), rose and remarked that: —
History showed that all nations which had admitted
black agricultural laborers to the heart of a country had
acknowledged their mistake. Every servile race brought
in for this purpose had a disastrous effect upon the
country they were brought into to develop. The trouble
would come after the country was developed, and every
woman who assisted to introduce those lower types
would feel her heart rent in twain at the mischief done.
With race trouble came race hatred. She strongly
advised the women of Australia not to let this evil he
done to their country. She knew something of the lower
African blacks.
This unexpected language, from one who comes
from a country where they understand these
matters, so upset the meeting that it was quite a
time before it was calm enough to signify in the
usual manner that it was in favor of the motion.
Those anti-Peace demonstrations of the deluded
jingo Jap have ended in a great wail of distress
from the north end of Monkey Island. The
roaring “patriots”—they mostly stayed around
Tokio whilst the bloodshed was proceeding—are
at last in the secret as to why Russia was able to
make peace on practically its own terms. The
local Government knew what was coming. A
considerable part of its swollen-headed country
is famine-stricken. This season’s rice crop was a
failure, and the unhappy agriculturists are said by
the cable to be eating baked roots, likewise horse-
THE JAP FAMINE.
In certain districts in Japan children are being sold as
servants at from Is. 7d. to 4s. each. —Daily Paper.
flesli (which is terrible tucker for men reared on
rice) and they are selling their children for about
two-and-sixpence each to be slaves of the
comparatively well-to-do citizens who screamed
for more berlud. The cable in this case may he
accepted as a truthful thing, for it sounded a
warning note re the rice crop when peace negotia-
tions were first talked about. The Monkey has
had his glorious war. The famine troubles are
only beginning. Vast sums of money that might
have been devoted to the succour of the starving
crowd were blown into smoke during the recent
campaign, and the poor little brown Empire finds
itself burdened with a legion of damaged con-
valescent soldiers, needing to be fed up with some-
thing more strengthening than root cakes. When
Russia went to that famous negotiation it also
took a spectre with it. It was about as close on
revolution as Japan was on famine. But the
Russians hid their spectre better than the Japs
did, and put up the bigger bluff of the two.
IS YOUR FARM SECURE?
If you die, who will have the Farm ?
Your Family or the Mortgagee ?
An Equitable Endowment will keep the Farm in Your Family.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney
(or Nearest Branch op the Society).
Please send, me particulars of an Equitable
Endowment.
1 -was born
Nam e
Address
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOlt COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Second Mrs. Tanqueray.”
Theatre Koval “ The Battle and the Breeze.”
Criterion “ lolan the.”
Palace “The Postmistress of the Czar.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “In the Bishop’s Carriage.”
Her Majesty’s “Veronique.”
Theatre Royal “With Flying Colors.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Princes Court Sensational Novelties. *
After an interval of sixteen years, so far
as Sydney is concerned, “The Sorcerer” was
staged by the Repertoire Co. at the Criterion on
Saturday night. The audience took the piece in
a most cordial and friendly spirit, and seemed to
enjoy it all the better for having sampled its
pleasant melodies years ago, and laughed at its
grotesqueries and arabesques. A large quan-
tity of the audience present on Saturday was
born about the time “The Sorcerer” last in-
canted in Sydney, and the section agreed,
as the lyric comedy progressed, that life was
not quite a blank with the old man and
the old woman, seeing that they lived in an age
when Gilbert was young and fresh and Sullivan
tore music out of the sweet young lyre of a great
intellect. Howard Vincent plays John Welling-
ton Wells, the role formerly taken by the late
William Elton. Vernon can stand up in coils, so
to speak, and can waggle like an eel dancing on
its tail. His incantation scene with the teapot is
a notable bit of burlesque. The Bulletin wonders
if the Witch that King Saul consulted cut such
capers before the spirit, of the hairy old
Samuel consented to appear. If so, the
monarch fell down with mirth, not fear, and died
next day at Mount Gilboa because he was
laughing too hard to be able to spear a Philistine.
“ The Sorcerer ” is followed by “ Trial By Jury,”
in which Miss Vinia de Loitte distinguishes
herself in the character of the plaintiff. On
Saturday night next the fairy opera of “ lolan the ”
will be staged.
** * *
“The Battle and the Breeze,” by Aus-
tralian actor-manager George Darrell, was staged
at Sydney Royal on Saturday and showed
that that old actor-manager knows the recipe
for a successful melodrama. There is plenty
of breeze, battle, bloodshed, bushranging,
abduction and so on ; and quite the only
bar to the complete gallerj enjoyment of this
smolcing-hot sensationalism is that “ absolutely no
smoking is allowed in the theatre.” Yet the bill of
fare would blend well with a strong tobacco flavor.
Seriously the success of this piece, of Pratt’s
“ Thunderbolt,” and the like, show that there is
no need to go outside of Australia for the manu-
facture of robust melodrama. Australians can
write quite badly enough for its produc-
tion on a large scale, and the “local
color ” with which they are able to flavor
sensationalism makes it a little more palatable to
those of the audience who want something more
than plain blood. Darrell’s work is full of diggers,
Chinamen, Maoris, and other “ features”, and rui s
briskly from beginning to end.
The cast of Anderson’s co. has been
strengthened by the return of Miss Duggan and
the engagement of Harry Diver, than whom there
are few better in Australia at melodramatic work.
(This is saying nothing of his capacity for other
work ; his lago was among the finest this country
has seen, j In “ The Battle and the Breeze” he has
a light comedy part, and carries it through well.
George Cross, Edmund Duggan and Bert Bailey
also stand out from the ruck; Edmund Duggan
acts with a vigor that is convincing.
** # *
Just as might have been expected,
“ Merely Mary Ann” smelt Christmas coming,
and suddenly gave notice that her mother was ill,
and she was very sorry, but she couldn't stay any
longer. Anyway, she left Her Majesty’s on
Tuesday ; and as this paper is passing through
the mill, Miss Tittell Brune is playing “ Sunday”
by night and working at “ The Second Mrs.
Tanqueray ”by day. The latter, in which Miss
Brune has not been seen in Sydney, will be first
staged on Saturday night. Meantime those who
haven’t seen “ Sunday ” are offered the hint that
it is Miss Brune’s size exactly, and that she does
at least as well in it as in anything else, even if
she doesn’t do better.
** * *
At Sydney Palace Miss Lily Dampier has
been tearing (be careful how that word is pro-
nounced) in the role of Lady Isabel in “East
Lynne,” but she was announced to be a princess
m “ The Postmistress of the Czar” on Wednesday
night. As this issue was then in the press, it is
impossible to say till next week whether the Czar
got the letter with an insufficient stamp on it or
not. The name of the drama is full of possi-
bilities of battle, murder, and sudden bomb.
•* * *
The Sydney Amateur Orchestral Society
closed its season with a river of melody.
Lady Northcote’s presentation piece, Dvorak’s
“ Nature,” proved to be a glorified and amplified
spring song, and Mr. James Fairfax’s present, a
Tschaikowsky Symphony, kept it excellent com-
pany.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli has, taking it all round, the
strongest bill it has had for years ; and the Tivoli
public recognises it, so that only the early bird
catches the seat. To the other attractions which,
a week ago, were anointed with the oil of good
words, has been added the remarkable musical
performance of the Jackson family. Sydney has
heard the same family before, but it hasn’t had
the same performance, and isn’t likely to soon have
another like it.
** * *
The beauties of “Veronique” promise to
grow and ripen in Melbourne estimation like the
apples whereof Florence Young sings in the second
act of that pleasant French opera. “ Veronique”
is without question the most charming musical
novelty presented by the Williamson co. since
“Robin Hood,” and it has the lightness and
gaiety which De Koverfi s work lacked. Also the
story harmonises with the music, reminding one
of the English “ Dorothy ” in this respect,
whereas “ Robin Hood ” had a serio-comic
libretto, mostly out of touch with the
score. The advt. describes “Veronique” as
“ the forerunner of another golden age of comic
opera,” but it might be more aptly proclaimed the
first of a new series of humorous sentimental
operas. The humor has the quality of mercy. It
is not strained. There is no irrelevant funny
business for George Lauri, no cheap parody of
somebody’s performance from a rival show, no
buffoonery that isn’t quite legitimate and accept-
able. Lauri, all the same, has never been so
admirably grotesque as in the character of
Mons. Coquenard, the warlike florist. A
subtle comedian could do it in a more
French and frivolous spirit, but Lauri’s
genial method is very serviceable. As much
may be said for Bantock in the smaller part of a
bailiff attached to the French court, and for Miss
Clifton as an incredible member of the Old
Nobility. Their humor is good humor, the more
effective for being more subdued than usual. The
singing principals are considerably handicapped
by circumstances. Lyrics written for French
words are not easily translated into Eng-
lish, and the clear, slow enunciation of both
Miss Thomas and Miss Young, which gives
full value to a Gold Country ballad, is a
drawback when they come to the dainty
melodies of Messager. The substitution (last
Saturday night) of Haigh Jackson for Doran has
put more go into the performance, and the new
hero strengthens the picture, seeing that he
hasn’t the air of a footman who has forgotten to
bring along a letter on a tray. But there is still
the same want of fluency and sweetness in the
ladies’ warbling. Their voices seem to be mis-
placed. Perhaps the most applauded number in
the opera is the “ Swing ” duet, by Miss Thomas
and the baritone, although it is thm and common-
place in comparison with the Apple song afore-
said, which gets most of its charm from the
chorus. And neither of these good things is so
well done as the chorus to the groom’s song in the
first act. W. S. Percy is a plump and lively little
groom who subsequently gets married to Miss
Connie Milne. She likewise is a festive little
item in a capital entertainment.
** * *
Another week or two of “In the Bishop’s
Carriage” will end the present season at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, therefore the numerous admirers
of Miss Nellie Stewart must see her as “ Straight ”
Nancy if they mean to see her again ere she leaves
for America (via Sydney). Nancy is, above all
things, “straight.” She pinches Dudley Clinton’s
timepiece, she shakes Harcourt Beatty’s cigarette-
f
0
L
0
9
V. 2
4W.
wi
rff.
on account- of
their purity*
& flavour.
Gallaher 1$ Belfast- belong to noTrust or- Combine


case, and she conspires with her bloke, P 1 01 ?‘' ,r '’
burgle the premises of Beatty aforesaid,
regards the particular female virtue that plays
the name-part, she is fully worthy tobe
Caesar’s wife. The cloud of suspicion darken-
ing her moral character is cleared away by
a letter from stousher Dorgan, lie
humbly testifies to her “straightness. Ihe joy o
Beatty on receiving this letter is too great for him
to keep it to himself. He invites his male acquaint-
ances—a theatrical manager and a chronic in-
ebriate—to come and listen to the glad hidings,
that they may all rejoice together. The pathos
of the situation is presently deepened by the
arrival of Nancv, clothed as a ministering angel,
and looking too “straight ” for words, lhen the
present writer hurriedly breathes the sacred name
of “Anderson!” and bursts into tears. Never-
theless, the management doesn’t frankly admit
that Straight Nancy and her companion creatures
. of fiction are appearing in an unmitigated melo-
drama. On the first night of the burglary the
orchestra followed the felonious movements of
Nancy and Dorgan with soft music, such as is set
apart for ghosts and villains. But the descriptive
accompaniment is now dispensed with. Not a
sound is heard, not a sinister note. The criminal
proceedings are as silent as the Burial of Sir John
Moore.
** * *
Bland Holt is about to close “ The Betting
Book ”at Melbourne Royal. Melbourne for the
present has forgotten the ill effects of the gambling
evil, and lost its burning interest in the tote. A
revival of “ With Flying Colors” will restore our
rolling nautical brethren of the bulldog breed to
the Holtian stage on Saturday night.
* * * *■
The final week of Wirths’ Circus was
inaugurated last Saturday with a burst of exciting
behavior on the part of the menagerie. Whilst a
number of animals were rehearsing a Happy
Family act in the arena, a blind jaguar disturbed
the domestic peace by putting his teeth into
the neck of a deerhound, and although
the dog escaped with his life, the shock
to his system was so great that a sym-
pathetic deer dropped dead of heart failure,
which caused some dismay to the neighbor-
ing elephants. Later in the morning the other
deer, finding itself mateless, broke from captivity
and started to swim up the Yarra to Richmond.
The fugitive was eventually lassooed from the
river by Jack Kelly, and led back in triumph to
the tent, where it took a fit. If the elephants go
mad during the week, Wirths will get a tre-
mendous farewell advt. for a prosperous season.
** * *
The Circus at Fitzgeralds’ Building con-
tinues to meet a declining demand for educated
gee-gee and dummy clown, and the tumult of its
invincible brass band mingles with the distant
blast of the band at Prince’s Court. Stephenson’s
co. has retired from the Bijou, but the Gaiety
keeps open house as usual, and the Athenaeum
Hall is preparing to receive the Corricks, whose
trade mark is Marvellous.
& 3* &
Payen and Lucie, a highly-finished pair of
gymnasts, are the latest arrivals at Melbourne
Opera House. Fortunately they are not grave
orthodox gymnasts, but dissemblers whose clever-
ness is intended to be funny and achieves its
purpose. The billiard-ball Brunins are doing as
before, likewise Bluett and the Grahams, and other
people, including the comely coon-songstress with
the irresistible smile. When she desires the
congregation to stand up and sing hallelujah,
there is gladness in the air at Rickards’.
** * *
Charles Holloway has for the moment
abandoned the Horse Drama at Adelaide Royal,
and is now engaged in showing “Why Woman
Sins ” —a subject on which the steepled city pro-
fesses a vast ignorance ; the cheaper parts of the
house are, however, showing a cheerful readiness
to learn. The Jackson family and the automatic
Frenchman have moved on from the Tivoli, and
the programme is now mostly song, dance, and
dialogue. Miss Ada Delroy has a good gauzy
dance—not new, but well put on—lighted by
flames from below the stage. Bostock and Womb-
well have a menagerie-circus on a popular pitch
near the Central Market. The colored Ally from
Tokio gives a neat and plucky selection of balanc-
ing feats, and the larger animals are also skilful
performers.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The Melbourne police-court case o'f Grant Hervey, Walter
Baker and the Revolver took a humorous turn last week
after the tall prisoner—on bail—had been granted a
further remand. Baker protested “ strenuously ” against
the' bailing of his adversary on the ground that
he was vaguely suspected of still carrying his his-
torical firearm, for the purpose of shooting at some
more Baker. Then the magistrate, to settle all doubt as
to whether Hervey had any deadly weapons concealed
under his cheerful demeanor, ordered the young man to
feel in his pocket, so he turned his pockets inside out and
produced a pair of nail-scissors. Whereupon the Court
breathed again. It was clearly impossible for even the
most terrified Baker to get shot with a pair of scissors.
Frank M. Clark presented Melbourne Gaiety audiences
with a biograph version of “ The Jewish Persecutions in
Russia ” a few nights after the massacres had commenced,
and advertised that, “in producing this picture, depicting
as it does the terrible persecutions of a law-abiding people,
he has secured the same at Enormous Cost.” Evidently
the great expense was caused through having the biograph
films cabled from Russia. Then, of course, there will be
the cost of keeping a photographer in every spot on earth
where serious bloodshed is lilc ly to happen, to say nothing
of the loss when the Cossack spears the camera or the
Chunchuses gallop on it.
“ Colander ” : Bland Holt locates his tote, in “ The
Betting Book,” at the rear of a tobacconist’s shop. To
attain complete realism he should place it behind a tea-
shop, and make a small addition to this effect Enter
from street door suspiciously' tall man—might be a
“ John ”in plain clothes. He advances to the counter,
and attempts to lift the flap and pass towards the devious
passages leading to the tote-yard. Tote Myrmidon behind
the counter (springing forward and stopping him):
“ Well, what’s for you?” Would-be Punter: “ Oh, you
know ! ” T.M. : “ No, I don’t know. What d’yer want? ”
W.P. : “Oh, you know all right. I want to get through
to the tote.”' T.M. (virtuously indignant): “Strike me
dizzy! Tote ! Look ’ere ; don’t you come ’ere talkin’
about no tote. D’yer want to spoil a man’s business ? If
yer want ter buy any tea ” (pointing to an open box of
drought-stricken leaf and a few dummy packets with the
dust of years on them) “ well, buy it. If yer don’t want
it, git, or yer’ll dam soon be made ter.” The would-be
punter (who in reality has no connection with “the
force ”) realises that his size is against him, and departs,
betless and tealess, meeting on his way out twenty or
thirty “ safe ” punters, '•>ho are straightway allowed to
pass thesacred flap, presumably to sample some Pekoe in
the parlor.
IN THE SAME BOAT, ANYHOW.
Victorian Trades Hall party has refused to give its countenance to the agitation to beat the American
Harvester Trust with a prohibitive duty.
Manufacturer : “ Well, just remember this, if you won't lend a hand to get us out of the line
of fire we sink together.”
Nellie Stewart is putting her foot down with a firm
hand on the autograph nuisance. She advertised in the
Melbourne papers, the other day, that in future she will
forward her autograph only when the collector encloses
with his or her request half-a-crown for the Dis-
tressed Actors’ Fund. Melbourne Princess’s corres-
pondence - bag may 7 now be expected to weigh
half -a - hundredweight per day less than formerly.
But why 7 doesn’t Sweet Nell make a larger and sterner
effort to save her suffering country, and only 7 send her
signature to the applicant who encloses 10s. in reduction
of the Public Debt? Miss Stewart might yet get
Australia out of pawn with her unaided autograph.
“ Alone she did it.”
“Edy'son”: “The Bishop’s Qarriage,” secured by Mr.
Musgrove at such enormous expense that the advertise-
ment is fairly staggered at the thought of it, is remark-
able at least in presenting the most preposterous tail-tag
I have ever struck in serious drama. The play' would not
be an extremely bad play, as plays go, if it knew its own
finish, which happens harmoniously at the end of the
penultimate act. How a manager could have_ failed to see
that that wasteful, ridiculous, and excessive last act
must dull all the good impressions and send people away
soured and abusive is incomprehensible to me. Play's are
judged by final impressions, and tedious last acts have
destroyed many' a drama. Then the author gives his
heroine an epilog-ue—a long, dull epilogue in an age that
can’t sit with patience under the best epilog-ue of which
Shakspeare was capable, and that settles it ; The people
are too polite to scream, but they 7 feel the injury 7 all the
same.
“ J. A. 0.” : Re some “ Poverty Point ” pars (B. 15/10’/05).
(1) About Duse playing Juliet at 14. Rosa Dunn,
daughter of old-time comedian John Dunn and sister of
Mrs. Marcus Olarke, played Juliet —my devotion to the fair
sex will not permit me to say how long ago—when only
14|- years of age, at Cremorne Gardens, Melbourne, under
the management of George Coppin. (2) Re Howard
Vernon. One of the first, if not the first, of his appear-
ances, was at the old Scandinavian, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, on the site of which now stands the Tivoli. _ Pie
was then billed as “ Mr. Lettville, tenor.” (3) It is no
disparagement to Harrie Ireland to say that in the Bland
Holt co. Frances Ross probably takes the cake as a well-
dressed woman.
Mabel Morg-an, who scored as Princess Soo-Soo in the
recent Melbourne revival of “ A Chinese Hone.vmoon,” is
a Richmond (Melb.) girl. She is comparatively new to
the stage, but was known previously as a concert singer.
Miss Morgan’s voice is above the musical-comedy average.
“Hamer”: Holloway as Matt Gabbett in Dampier’s
“ Term,” at Sydney Criterion, was not as horrible as
many who have enacted the gentle cannibal creature.
There are some players of such parts who love to get all
the gore they can out of them. A good old actor with
this taste shocked Sydney at one time by his version of
Bill Sikes. The version consisted mostly of a bludgeon
topped off with a perforated india-rubber ball, inside
which was a blood-soaked sponge. With this weapon he
whacked Nancy on the head in the presence of the audi-
ence until that lady’s visage was pleasing to his artistic
soul. Then people started to faint.
The absurdity of the average professional mummer’s
pretensions can be measured by trie comparative excel-
lence of a really clever amateur. Lawrence Hardinge,
who played Captain Coddington in the amateur produc-
tion of “ In Town,” at Melbourne Princess’s, is, thusfar,
a more convincing actor than many a competent pro.
who has had years of stage experience. Granting that
Hardinge was an excellent amateur, it is quite as certain
that he was a novice even as amateurs go—one quite un-
versed in the theatrical “art” whereof the old ac-tor
talks so impressively. The other week he rattled through
the Coddington part in a perfectly natural style, and a
week later he walked on as a member of the Musgrove
Co. and took a minor character in a melodrama with a
distinctive, easy virility. It will be interesting to see
whether he loses some of his naturalness in acquiring
“ professional polish.”
Known inhabitants of Sweet Charles of Old Drury’s
zenana comprised two French girls, three of Welsh
descent, one Irish colleen, and at least six Englishwomen.
When Wirths’ circus was at Ballarat a while ago the
rain fell in torrents, and some of it came through the
canvas roof upon the “ Death Trap Loop ” track. But
the tent was packed, and Ohefalo took his chance down
the damp incline. He said afterwards that it was the
riskiest trip he had ever made. His language before he
started must have been very choice Italian.
“ 0.K.” : Ellen Terry must have been very young—little
more than a child actress—when she was billed as
“ Nellie,” as alleged in a recent Bulletin par. At the
age of 16-17 she married G. F. Watts, the painter, and
retired from the stage. A brief and stormy period of
cohabitation with her unsuitable husband ended in his
signing a deed of separation, by which he agreed to allow
her £3OO a year, to be reduced to £2OO if she went back
to the stage. For the next few years the golden-lnured
charmer lived in seclusion at the little village of Har-
penden, 20 miles from London. During that time things
happened whereof the world heard only rumors, and
Watts, who lived apart from the world in his London
studio, heard absolutely nothing at all. Mrs. Watts was
perhaps a woman of four-and-twenty, or thereabouts,
when a London manageress (Mrs. John Wood) made a
mysterious announcement that “a charming actress
would shortly return to the stage ”at Mrs. J. W.’s theatre.
The great unknown proved to be Miss Ellen Terry.
The notices of her re-appearance made no reference to her
having been previously known as “ Nellie,” nor was ever
a word said about her intervening marrriage, as far as I
can remember. G. F. Watts heard of her re-appearance,
but he didn’t instruct his lawyers to reduce the annual
allowance to £2OO. His nominal condition of wedlock
never troubled him at all, seemingly. But one day Tom
Taylor, the dramatist, who had been best man at the
wedding, took the liberty of telling Watts that it
was time he got a divorce and spared himself
the foolishness of paying the lady £3OO a year. So
Watts applied for a divorce, and got it as a matter of
course, Ellen Terry being then 27. The suit was unde-
fended ; the co-respondent was the late Godwin, an archi-
tect with a great reputation as an archasologist. But the
respondent and the co. had ceased to play speaks for a
long time before Miss Terry got her liberty. A while
later she married Charles Kelly—and parted from him.
Dan Fitzgerald, or rather his manager, Erskine Scott
(for Dan himself is unhappily too sick to look for novelties
just now), nearly succeeded in securing a red-hot attrac-
tion for the show at the Fitz circus building. An offer
was made to William Ferrier, the heroic Warrnambool
fisherman who went forth in his little dingy for the rescue
of two men from the wrecked Bella. It was a tempting
offer, and Ferrier wired his acceptance, so the next thing
to consider was what to do with the hero when he joined
the circus. There’s a big tank below the arena at Fitz’s,
and Scott struck the idea of refilling the tank and using
it for a Rescue act—Ferrier to paddle to the far end in a
very small boat and save a couple of drowning circus
mariners, whilst tlie band play'ed “ A Life on the Ocean
Wave.” The details of the “turn” were in course of
incubation ; the glowing ad. was drafted ; the manage-
ment had shaken hands with itself—and then came
another telegram from Ferrier cancelling his promise. He
preferred to keep his heroism unspotted from the circus.
“ Ancient Pistol ” : Saw it stated in a Sydney paper that
Newton Griffiths, who continues to preserve the legiti-
mate barnstormeous method of acting, is now “60 years
old.” Surely there’s an omission of a figure. Newton
must be nearer 160. Nobody' could mistake him for a
chicken these times, and he is said to have looked an
older man 20 years ago.
Thurston had a great boom at Perth, where he achieved
the free advertisement of a long leading article on Magic
in the West Australian. Taking a leaf from the pro-
gramme of Leroy', Talma and Bosco, he has introduced an
“Incubation” trick. Thurston brings forth a large
assortment of unaccountable poultry' together with a live
pig, and the furious behaviour of the porker is a crowning
success.
Harry' Quealy, who stage-managed the Melbourne
amateurs in their recent performance of “In Town,” and
was mainly responsible for the success of the show, has
been engaged for the leading she-male part in Anderson’s
forthcoming panto, at Sydney Royal. Quealy', one time
a Pollard juvenile, is now quite an old stager in panto-
mime. He pla.ved one of the “ Djin-Djin ” parts in Aus-
tralia, Maoriland, and S’Africa.
“Narringhi Boori ” : “Edyson” passes “Yarrab’’one
(B. 9/11/’O5) in the Ibsen-Sudermann discussion, and gives
praise to Sudermann. I agree with “ Yarrab,” and say
right here that there is only one great master, and that
is Ibsen. He breasts the world’s question with cold-
blooded bravery. Sudermann can make a hen interest-
ing, but why not get to larg-er questions as Ibsen does,
and take risks? Any' fool has thoug-hts. Plow to put
them is the bother. Ibsen puts them better than anyone
else. An Ibsen play is a thunder-clap of dangerous
honesty ; hence he is rarely produced. A Sudermann
pla.v is merely an entertainment. [ln cutting this letter
short The Bulletin merely says that any 7 fool hasn’t
thoug-hts. He has what he thinks are thoughts, just as a
man gets imaginary 7 diseases through reading pill adver-
tisements.] V,,
“ L.” : As to Gilbert’s “ Comedy and Tragedy ” having
been written for Mary Anderson" (“ S.T.S.”, B. 2/11/’O5),
that usually accurate stage historian, W. Davenport
Adams, after recording the first production of the play,
with Mary Anderson as Clarice, at London Lyceum in
1884, sa.vs : —“ The piece had, some years previously 7, been
accepted by Miss Litton for the Court Theatre, but was
not produced there.' The author told the story of the
drama in the form of a prose contribution to the Stage
Door (1880).” So The Bulletin writer who called
“Comedy and Tragedy” “one of Gilbert’s early efforts in
dramatic work ” may have been pretty near the mark, as
there is a possibility of its having been in manuscript for
years before Miss Litton’s acceptance of the play or
the publication of the Stage Door story.
Testimony showing that Nell Gwynne must have
frequently 7 carried a frilly, bundle to the Drury-lane
laundry comes from ’way back in the centuries. Some
French Court dames who came to London “ had heard of
the luxurious fineness of Miss Nelly’s underclothing, and
asked if they could judge of it for themselves. Without
more ado she let them raise each petticoat, one by one,
and before all in the room examine them on her.” French
ambassador Courtin, who was present at this interesting
exhibition, adds : “ I never in my life saw such thorough
cleanness, neatness, and sumptuosity.”
The virtues of linen mesh undergarments have
lately been forced upon Australian notice by Ball and
Welch, the Melbourne drapers and outfitters, not because
B. and W. are philanthropically concerned about the pub-
lic health, but because they had bought up a manu-
facturer’s stock. Medical advocates of cellular linen
underwear maintain, with sound argument, that it must
inevitably take the place of “ warm flannel next to the
skin ” when the world gives intelligent thought to the
question. A garment is thoroughly healthy for just as
long as it imparts warmth and admits the air freely, hence
the old prescription of a piece of neiv flannel for a sore
throat, weak chest, &c. The woollen material is
unimpeachable if it lets plenty of air through it, and pre-
sents a frank, open appearance when held up to
the light. But after each visit to the wash-tub it
returns in a more and more contracted form. The
original porousness is lost. A man who takes
violent exercise, or perspires without exercise, in a
matured woollen shirt finds that he grows cold. The
garment, almost as dense as a piece of felt, keeps him air-
tight more or less, and he acquires rheumatics through
the very precaution he has taken in always wearing
flannel next his figure. A few years ago, a famous
London physician, a lawgiver on the treatment of rheu-
matism, solemnly retracted his previous woollen doctrine,
and declared himself a high-priest of the new linen-mesh
religion. Testimony from bronchitis and rheumatism
sufferers was abundantly offered, and the big advt. -drum
was banged with the enthusiasm due to a good cause, but
the old faith in flannel is not easily killed. Even the cir-
cular issued with the aforesaid lot of linen improvements
is afraid to hit the woollen fetish too hard. It recom-
mends them as “ particularly well-suited for summer
wear, cool yet protective.” In good sooth —as the knights
of old would have said —in good sooth these garments of
unshrinkable linen-mesh are the best for all seasons, and
may be warranted to cure rheumatism in winter-time
when all pills and old-fashioned precautions have failed
miserably.
STUDY
Money-Making
Subjects.
Send now for “ Home
Study,” post free.
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College,
Moore St.,’ Sydney. [5
1 :
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under •
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
V.L.Ri. : Interest too slender N. Startup:
Not quite skill enough J.A.M‘O. : “Death-adder” is
the form used by zologists, though the other appellation
has some foundation in the fact that the creature, like all
viperine snakes, is much less acute of hearing than the
colubrines J.R.G.: Ingenious and interesting, but out
of our line. Would be readily published by any scientific
journal.... D. Byrne: Not well enough put together
Alastor : Too tyro-like in treatment... .M.M.T. : Sloppy
and hysterical Mogul: Too aggressively m0ra1....
Wogger: This verse is a record :
Harry’s pipe to keep for ever in my mind,
That night he begged me in voice persuasive, gentle,
meek.
But still I (with some misgivings) declined,
Then Harry vowed (till his pipe I brought) never to
speak.
And there are nine more verses.... Drifter : “Some
Drunks ”is too scrambling and promiscuous.... Percy H. :
“Noumea” very scrappy John Ward: Declined....
Platypus : Not suitable, and a very difficult fist to read.
No name or address on copy... .Bakblot (or something
similar) : “ Night Shift ” rather shapeless and purposeless
yarn A. Marschner : Your letter cost 2d. for deficient
postage. You Victorians seem to have amazing
faith in the carrying power of a penny stamp....
H.W. :An unskilful hand... .Norman M. : No literary
value ...P. Conkling: Goodin incident, but lacks con-
structive 5ki11.... Bush-girl: Both rather feeble
Hollow P. : Returned accordingly... .G.T.C. : The “ fake ”
of it is obvious. ..Darkie: Yes; there’s promise in it.
Say your say more directly, and avoid moralising like
poison... .L.H. : Common sense is with you in the main,
but some of your incidental statements are very much
“ off.” Darien : Verses ending with a cry of “ Nightin-
gale, Swallow,” declined... .A.B. : “Rain-drops” sacri-
fices meaning to metre in too many places M.L. :
“ Ulverstone ” is rather pretty descriptive verse about
grass and so on, but we have a lot of rather better
descriptive verse about grass, chief difference being in
the locality of the grass... .D.B.G. : “ Mac’s Shout ” seems
to imply impossible lunacy on the part of the policeman...
The Ne’er-do-Well (Tas.) : Verse mechanically correct,
but there is no soul in it. Also, by the way, you have
annexed a pen-name which another man has had a lien
upon for years... .G.B. : “Salvation” has streaks of
humor, just as a ladder has streaks of wood. It’s the
spaces between that are fatal Ailath : Will be pleased
to see your friend’s grave at any time. There aren’t
nearly as many dead friends as there should be-....
Yarrab : The Sudermann-Ibsen trouble must end some-
where, so it ends right here.. . .General: Has good points,
but is too prolix, and the conventions are not in charac-
ter. Cockie-folk don’t talk about “ illustrating the possi-
bilities,” and so forth... .Larry: Interest too purely local.
... .Needlewood : Verse not up. Prose sketch under
consideration... .Sydney Faire : Doesn’t yet quite reach
the mark.... Scamp : Too digressive and long-winded....
C.T. A. : There were obscene developments in some coun-
tries, but the Phallic cult itself had reference merely to
the niystery of the continuity of existence... .F.O’B. :
Meag're thoughts and lumbering style... .C. 0.8. : Metre
too rocky J.E.M. : All of indifferent quality.....
W.H.P. : Not badly done, but hardly in our line....
Ycleptos : Hardly striking- enough for print... .K.S.P. :
“Scheme of Things” is pretty good, but just a shade
below being good enough.... Perooc : Pretty but not
convincing... .Marvell: It’s correct but clumsy. “Do
not speak so loudly ” would be a better way, or “ Speak
not so loudly ”... .More: You’d better ask a hen. We
refuse to let the Abo. page degenerate into a poultry
column... .Lewin C. : Why do you make the Australian
pier in your Australian poem, of oak instead of good local
hardwood ? Obviously you don’t seek to be original but
follow British minor poet models... .Prooshan : That
teats story comes, on an average, three times a day to
this office; and all its brightness has worn off with
frequent dropping into the waste basket... .D.W.H. :
Pretty album verse ; not suitable for a profane newspaper
like The Bulletin. ... Weka : That kind of impassioned
girl-description is quite unfitted for a moral paper like
The Bulletin. .. .Faximely : There were no stamps en-
closed for return, so the verses were not preserved. Read
the instructions at head of this column C.W.A. :
“Bitter Cup” upset in bitter waste paper basket....
0. : If you took some distinctive pen-name like “Popo-
catepetl” or “Hippocampus” we might remember, but
so many people simply use an initial, and the initials get
mixed. We didn’t remember you were “ O.” We don’t
remember now who is the other fellow who is “ O.” To-
morrow, if there is a rush, we may have forgotten that
either of you is “ 0.”... .Drifter : Fairly well Conceived,
but crude in execution E.G.P. : Not up to standard.
....Warner: Quaintly told, but not enough in it
Grampus : A manifest absurdity T.W.R. : You caracole
imposingly, but you don’t get over any logical ground....
Thespian : B. 26/8 ’O5, page 9
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
C.L. : “Ikon in Australia” is rather purposeless
Liggy : No demand at present for an extra portrait of
G. Reid. The other is a fine picture, but it isn’t the best
way to express the political situation Jeach : Your
sketch of a mine is like nothing else on this earth....
G.B. : The rejection isn’t, as you suggest, because you are
too young ; so far as the editor knows, you may 'be 95.
It is simply that the sketches are nqt g-ood enough. Being
young, you have time to improve ; if you were old, the
only thing- to do would be to give it up....R.D. : Not
much in an artistic sense, but interesting as showing
what an ass a mayor can be.... Jaysee (Vic.): Merely note
that it cost 4d. for deficient postage... .Ben S. : That egg
joke has been wandering round in various disguises for
years O.G. : After a futile attempt to disguise the
truth, we are driven to admit that your pictures are
horrible.
Joe Cook didn’t quite blush when, in the
midst of his furious denunciations of the closure
system, some one read to him his own speech of
a few months ago demanding it, but he wore the
confused look of a teetotaller who had just put a
whisky capsule in the collection plate.
Lonsdale, M.H.R. (of N.S.W.) :
But I say that before I would occupy the position
those men (pointing to the Ministry) do I would cut my
throat and die in the gutter.
What a nasty, bluggy man !
A letter awaits “ Brunelys ” —whose
original marriage advt. was printed in this paper
11/10/’os—at The Bulletin office.
George Reid has been complaining bitterly
about the proposal by the Deakin Government
(kept in office by the aid of the Labor party) to
introduce the closure, and chewed quite a pound
of soap to make a froth over it. Therefore it is
interesting to remember that when George Reid
(then N.S.W. Premier, kept in office by the aid
of the Labor party) introduced his Foreign-trade
tariff he carried the whole blessed thing in one
sitting by the application of the closure. He
started with the closure, and kept it going all the
time. When Reid is more thaiiusually shocked
at the other fellow doing something, it is always
safe to assume that he habitually did it himself.
If he is desperately shocked, then he probably
invented the thing.
The Federal Government did not quite
adopt the suggestion in last week’s D.C.L. par—
to offer the opposition the right brand as a soother
for their unruly passions. They have held out the
olive branch of the closure instead. But there is
yet time for the frivolous stonewallers to mix
D.C.L. whisky with their mental masonry and
grow wise. “Ah ! What subtle virtue lies in the
Whusky of the Wise ” sang the greatest of Scotch
uoets.*


SOCIETY
INSULT TO INJURY.
“Confound him, didn't he know I was your
husband ?”
“No, darling, he thought you were my father."
Bendigo was able to go across the road the
other day and watch the decay of its own leper.
The leper had been in the Chinese camp for years,
and had been steward on the premises of one of
the Chinese societies, and had cooked its “loast
duck ” ; yet the other Chinese simply turned him
out and said ‘Whaffor?” as soon as a row was
made about the matter ; so the patient being thus
published, as it were, inspection was made easy.
Years and years ago they knew, so the Chinamen
said, that he had something that looked like
leprosy; but then he seemed to put on flesh again
—the loast duck that he cooked for the club
apparently knocked the leprosy out in that round.
Consequently they didn’t say anything, and the
leper remained a welcome member of the Chinese
camp till his fingers began to drop off, and then
they let him lie untended in a hovel. Apparently
the vanished hand didn’t paw over the vegetables,
or finger the ha’penny whistles that white mothers
buy for their youngsters to put in their mouths ;
but, all the same, for years it was in contact with
others that did the pawing. And the touch of a
vanished hand, when viewed in that light, is
unpleasant.
* * * *
“ One Who Has Of times Risked Contagion
Without Knowing It ” writes :
Bendigo Chinese Camp at Easter is a principal place of
call. The Chows stir up their Dragon on the Sunday
afternoon for the Fair on Monday, and the camp is over-
run with visitors —crowds of children and girls. The
camp itself, except for one or two weather-board struc-
tures, is a collection of hovels, composed of old tins
fastened together, and positively reeking with odor of
joss and cooked fowl. The Chows are mostly old men,
and are dying out fast. One time I found in a hut an
old man who had slept on sheets of tin so long that they
had taken his shape. As he lay at rest he looked like a
tinned Chow gone bad through exposure to the air.
**. • *
“ Squidge ” on a military matter :
I went to the review in Albert Park (Melbourne) on
King’s Birthday. Thought I’d like to see how Australia
soldiered ; but I didn’t. The review was all gold lace and
“ Gor’ Save.” “ Gor’ Save ” was played on every possible
opportunity but one, and there must have been some mis-
take about that one. On thirteen separate occasions the
bands played “ Gor’ Save.” They played it when Fan-
shawe came. They played it when Talbottle came. They
played it when Strickland came. They played it when
Northcote came. They played it three times while they
fired a feu de joie. They advanced in review order,
saluted, and played it. They saluted the colors and
played it. They played it when Northcote with his jockey
bovs and flunkeys drove away. They played it when
Talbottle drove away. They played it when Fanshawe
drove away. They played it when Strickland drove away.
The time they didn’t play it was when Pursey Ohirnside,
in frock coat and top-hat, strolled over from the crowd of
civilians into the centre of the parade ground and was
handed something by Northcote to let him be called
C.M.G. for the future. Surely something better can be
found for grown men to do than to stand like gilded
popinjays and wave silly swords 13 times in an afternoon
to the accompaniment of “Gor’Save the King.” Are
there not rifle-ranges in Melbourne where the men may
learn to shoot ? Are there not miles of country owned
by people like Pursey Ohirnside and his ilk where
they can learn the meaning of cover and be taught to
behave like soldiers? Why then do 2000 men waste a
glorious day in “ Gor’ Save "?
• * • •
The incompetence of the average Shire
councillor is such that Vic. State Entomologist
French has reported, lately, that, unless St.
John’s wort and other abominations are to speedily
overrun the whole State, the administration of the
Noxious Weeds Act must be removed from the
hands of local bodies and placed in those of the
Government. St. John’s saintly weed was first
introduced to Australia by an old dame of Bright
(Vic.) for medicinal purposes. Like all imported
curses, it spread apace, and now it has got such a
hold of a lot of Victorian mountain country and
of stretches of South Gippsland that it would cost
more than the land is worth to clear it. One of
these precious shires—Upper Yarra— by the way,
has just discovered that it is in debt to a bank
£231 over the amount allowed by law, that its
arrears of irrecoverable rates amount to £4OO, and
that to pay its way honestly it would have to
strike a rate of 4s. in the £. Lots of English
towns and counties pay far more than this, but
Upper Yarra isn’t taking any 4s. rate; instead, it
is moaning piteously on the Treasury door-mat,
and beseeching Bent to soften his heart. Mean-
while, it is too agitated to look for St. John’s wort.
• * * *
“ Dico ” : Lest incredulous persons should
doubt the existence of the ’umble ’Odge spirit in
some of the landlord-ridden parts of our demo-
cratic land, let me
trot out my little
testimony. Had
charge, about ten
years ago, of a small
country school be-
tween Ararat and
Portland (Vic.). It
was on a main road,
and about a mile
further down stood
the imposing resi-
dence of the'
“Squire” of those
parts. This mag-
nate’s eldest son
was just returning
from his honeymoon,
and a deputation in
smock-frocks (least-
ways it should have
been in that horrid
garment) came to re-
quest me to line the
children along the
road when the great
one was passing.
Also would I please
teach them “ Gor
Save” and something
extra in the way of
a bow and bob-curtsey.
Now, it was in the days of payment by results,
the inspector was about due, and the kids were
mostly of the cow-intellect species. I couldn’t
spare a day from the pursuit of results, so refused
with some shortness and disrespect. The thunder-
struck tenantry retreated in disorder, and from
that day till I left I was regarded as a Red
Anarchist, a Fenian, and a Dangerous Person of
No Manners.
* * * *
This country’s habit of minutely searching
for something to “celebrate” over is becoming
ridiculous. Somebody having discovered that the
N.S.W. green fivepenny stamp design hadn’t been
changed for nearly 50 years, Central Administra-
tion sec. Scott seriously states that “the Depart-
ment intends to fittingly celebrate the jubilee ” of
that bit of gummy paper at the end of the year !
That’s about bedrock of the celebration foolery,
so far.
GRINDING ECONOMY.
“ Mean ! I should think he
was! Why he wouldn't
let a flea stay on im
Now, I believe in live and
let live."
Sydney is apparently getting over its
spasm of virtue. Since the Birth Rate Commis-
sion sat the monthly birth average has been an
improvement on that 4 of former years; but for
October there was a sudden decrease and the
figures are on the same old level. The scarce and
necessary infant wants another advertisement
evidently.
* * * *
N.S.W. Bench and Bar were seldom so
destitute of wit and humor as at present. Want
is seriously ill, Wise is away, Julian Salomons is
practically out of the ring, and Pilcher, always
grave, has returned to his early pedagogic manner.
The younger men are all struggling for seats on
the Bench, District Court or Supreme Court, and
a belief has spread among them that heaviness to
the point of stolidity is a recommendation for the
post. The lightest Bar joke oi the last three
months weighed over a ton.
* * * *
“ Albert D.” writes :
Re the Dentists’ Amendment Bill and its urgent need,
Around both Sydney and Melbourne various Hindus,
named Taj Mahal or Gosh Himalaya or the like, have
practised for years as certificated surgeons and stump
extractors. Having a tooth that troubled like the knob
of Hades, I consulted Gosh Himalaya in his cheap and
greasy cavern. Thrusting his black fist inside my mouth,
he gripped the aching molar with finger and thumb, and
waved my head to and fro briskly. “ Very sore,” he said,
gravely. “ You wait a leetal, en I pull heem out with
the forceepa.” I turned curiously, and saw about a dozen
rusted, blood-stained instruments that seemed to have
been hauling out bad teeth since the time of Job.
Vacating the dental chair hurriedly, I told him that I
didn’t like the gory, unwashed appearance of his
“forceepas.” Admitting that he might know some-
thing about sharks’ liver, frogs’ bones, and blowflies, I
felt squeamish anent his ability to grub an agonised jaw.
He became violently abusive. “I show you me dee-
plomis,” he shouted. “Me 18 deeplomis.” Then he flew
round the equator, and spoke learnedly about the Bull
Camel University of Timbuctoo, and of the unimpeach-
able integrity of Professor Sambo Chickasee, who signed
all diplomas. He shook a tooth certificate from the
Sultan of Borneo in my face, referred to himself as a
British subject, and called me a “ bletty pleece spy.” I
discovered afterwards that most of his victims left his
quackery in a pitiable state of blood and mutilation. In
the poorer quarters of the city the colored dental im-
postor waves his filthy instrument without fear of gaol or
exposure. His turbaned arrogance and his glass and
metal gauds attract the ignorant and inexperienced. A
sudden outburst of shrapnel in his direction would save
the community’s teeth a lot of pain and trouble.
*** . *
The Broken Hill magistrate, in a betting
prosecution, has just decided that the passage of an
hotel isn’t a place within the meaning of the Act.
“The question was whether the defendant used
the passage sufficiently to make it a place.” The
next time this S.M. has before him a person who
has used a tomahawk to drive it into somebody’s
skull, the lawyers will no doubt argue that, as the
tomahawk was Only driven in once, it wasn’t used
often enough to constitute it an axe; also that,
as it only struck the man’s head once, the head
wasn’t struck often enough to make it legally a
cranium as provided by the Act. Whereupon the
S.M. will dismiss the case with some moral re-
flections.
The Mothers’ Union in Tasmania is a
serious affair. The wife of Bishop Mercer is
p res id en t, A proposal was before the union in
jj 0 k art recen tly purporting to give voting power
J . 1 , , P ., mr, r.
to the President in every branch of the Mothers
combination throughout the diocese. The
Mothers snorted, and refused to give Mrs.
Mercer a casting vote wherever the united parents
were assembled. At this point of the proceedings
the President wept bitterly, as if the affair had
been an onion instead of a union,
* * * *
>phe Melbourne ARGUS in a recent outburst
~ r .
of admiration for Japan.
may one day ar j se ; n j apan that will include what is best
and most essential in Shintoisyn, Buddhism and Christi-
anity.
Poor old Christianity only comes third now in the
Argus creed. And the paper is quite willing to ad-
mit that Christianity isn’t aZZ.best or all essential,
but that a lofiof it (say two-thirds) may be chucked
awa y. Also it now considers that bits of Shinto-
-gm an( j Buddhism may be just as essential to take
. • t heaven as bits of Christianitv It
a nation to heaven as Dits or omustianity. it
wasn t always thus m the ARGUS office, but times
change.
* * * *
if seems that Ah Slim in China is a wise
, , ~ and-bamboo dwelling
ra . an , to . P ut U P tne P a P er anQ r / arurjo ° dwelling
which he may reasonably expect to see burned
down within eight or 10 years at most. In the
natural order of things, by the time the fire conies
a l o ng, the place is so foul that nothing but
destruction can do it any good. Eighteen years
T .„,, r i v ~ w b n i p the nhinese nanin at
ago nearly the whole ol the Chinese camp at
Bendigo was wiped out by fire, and something a
bit better was put m its place ; yet, now that a
leper has come out of that camp, and health
officers have consequently been moved to go down
o fp c j a ]Jy smell the emporium, it is found that
, • u f another wholesale blaze will nnrifv
notriirig but another wholesale blaze will purity
it. Mere washing and disinfection would be
hitting a pestilence with a feather.
* * * *
Shops and factories legislation now before
F _ .. *=>
Victorian Parliament proposes that butchers
shops must on certain days close at 5 p.m., but
“ sausages may be sold up to 6 p.m.” This special
license to the sausage seems to The Bulletin to
carry reverence for the Unknown to the point of
superstition. We all know the special claims of
sausage to veneration; the profound mystery of
its origin, the antiquity of its component parts,
the fact that it is often the mausoleum of the dear,
dumb friend of man. Sausage, we admit, calls
for awe ; but is it to the public advantage that
that awe should be deepened by a deliberate legis-
lative enactment by which sausage, alone of
butchers’ goods, should hold the boards during
the twilight hour from sto 6 ? Besides, it gives
the show away. The plain meat will keep till
next day, but the sausage, already old and hover-
ing on the brink, can’t be trusted lest it commit
suicide in the night.
AN AUSTRALIAN BARRACK-ROOM BALLAD.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The secretary of the Bendigo D.strict Cricket Associa-
tion has written to the City Council complaining that the
monthly parade of militia on the Upper Reserve sports
ground interferes with the cricket pitch. 11 was resolved
at y'esterdav’s meeting of the City Council not to allow
the militia the use of the ground during the cricket
season.— Melbourne Argus.
How did you make Australia’s name ?
What did you do when the Germans came ?
Say, my bold boys, say ;
“Oh, we met at the Port, and we cheered’em from the
fort,
And we showed ’em lots of sport
(How's that 1)
Yes, we’re the boys who saved Australia !
“ For we hadn’t got an army, and we hadn't got a fleet,“ZL
But you should have heard the blessed bands a-playin’
down the street!
For the bowlin’ dubs paraded in their uniforms so neat —
When the Bold Boys saved Australia.”
How did you make the Germans run
If you hadn’t got an army, or a cruiser, or a gun ?
Say, my bold lads, say T ;
“ We asked ’em all to stay, and we showed ’em how to
play
In the good old British way—
(Off side !)
And they found she took some beating, did Australia.
“ Though we hadn’t got no rifles, and we’d never had no
drill,
We taught ’em golf and cricket and a dozen games of skill;
And ive took ’em out to Flemington, and let ’em see the
‘ Hill,’
And, of course, that saved Australia."
How did you keep the Japs so sweet?
Hid you find ’em cheap and easy, or a nasty lot to beat ?
Say, my bold lads, say ;
“ Oh, we didn’t make no fuss, for the Jap’s a decent cuss,
And we made him one of us—
(Banzai!)
So we played ’em Murrumbidgee for Australia.”
(Chorus omitted, owing to weariness.)
How will it be if Bull goes down ?
Will you be White men, or Yellow men, or Brown?
Say, my bold lads, say ;
“ Oh, you go to ’ell, and let us ’ave a spell.
How, in all creation, do you think we are to tell ?—
( Well kicked !)
It won’t be very hard to save Australia.
“ Though ive haven’t got no anything to help us in a roiv,
Strike us’pink ! but can’t ive stoush a blessed foreigner, or
Choiv ?
And can’t ive call the enemy a dash-and-blanky cow ?
My oath .'—and we’ll do it for Australia ! ’’
VIC.
O.G. CABOT.
Have a Care for Your Eyes.
The Great Poet Milton asks:
Why was this sight
To such a tender hall of the eye confined.
Therefore when afflicted with Sandy Blight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, &c.,
don’t experiment, but use the Australian National Remedy,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Preparation has been the salvation of thousands. Rose’s Celebrated Eye
Lotion is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Australasia. If
not obtainable locally a postal note for 1/9 to the Proprietors will bring you a
bottle by return post.
SOLE PROPRIETORS AND MANUFACTURERS:
H. A. ROSE & CO,, Cliemists and Druggists, 531 George Street, Sydney.
'fcwes-',®
EXQUISITE MODELS. PERFECT FIT,
j* jt GUARANTEED WEAR. *
THE NEW.
P.D.
... CORSETS
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside,
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.


Bent’s roads, as described in the account
ol the Melbourne-Sydney motor contest: —
After leaving Seymour tbe roads are abominable —mere
bush tracks, full of holes, ruts, creeks, and glue pots, and
studded with trees and stumps.... M’Kenzie had a sensa-
tional experience. He was putting up very fast time, but
when about 20 miles from Euroa he got into a bad hole
and fractured his front axle The press car had a
most exciting experience, as the last 10 miles over a vile
bush track had to be done in the dark and without lights.
S. Dalryinple threaded bis way through holes and bush
with wonderful skill and nerve.... The official directions
state that after Tallarook, 55 miles from Melbourne, it is
nearly all bad road, and that bridges and culverts on it
must be treated with suspicion. One man said “No one
but millionaires or fools would race over this road.” A
good many who are not millionaires raced over it to-day,
but —it is not a credit to Victoria—no one was hurt....
There is every promise of fine weather but a bad road for
to-morrow’s stage to Albury.
The greatest and most important road in Aus-
tralia has become a mere bush rut, because the
greedy landlords who run the shire councils of
Victoria won’t pay enough rates to keep their
highways in repair. And until there is a law
under which shire councillors can be fined a mini-
mum of £lOO each for their neglect, there seems
to be no hope of improvement.
REASONING IN A CIRCLE.
S HE: “I should not object to mg daughter marry-
ing you if I thought she had given the
matter sufficient consideration.”
H E: “ Why do you think she hasn’t ?”
SHE: “If she had she wouldn’t want to marrg
you. ”
Ballarat’s > quaint old inhabitant, James
Oddie, the amusing gentleman who once donated
a number of pictures to the local School of Arts,
and lately, in a huff, threatened to take them
away to the lunatic asylum, broke out afresh over
the question of the Golden City’s jubilee, which
transpires next month. Oddie said he had given
the subject much thought, and had been delivered
of two ideas ; first, that a banquet should be given
to 5000 citizens, and, second, that the Local
Government Act should be amended so that the
Mayor should be converted into a Lord Mayor—
allee same Melbourne —and “there should be the
usual attendant train of aldermen, whose portly
figures gave tone to the municipal status of the
councils of Melbourne and Geelong.” The reason
of the existence of aldermen is now explained.
They are mostly portly and give tone and waist-
coat to the municipal status.
Concerning some things Australia does die
from, and some it doesn’t: —
Appendicitis has become a fashionable enough disease
to have a line to itself now in Victorian vital statis-
tics, though until Edward took it to his lower bosom, so
to speak, not one in a million ever thought of dying of it.
It’s a marvellous thing how changeful fashion is in the
matter of diseases—or doctors. It rarely occurs to any-
body now to die of quinsy or croup or thrush or chicken-
pox or erysipelas or rose rash or mumps or a dozen other
quaint, old-fashioned diseases; in fact, though the Vic.
Health Department keeps rose rash and mumps in the
returns from force of habit, only one doctor has been bold
enough to put either down on a certificate for over five
years. If it hadn’t been for new diseases, it looks as
though there would be a pretty good chance of immor-
tality, or thereabouts. Even as it is, with cancer killing
twice as many people (in proportion to population) as it
did 25 years” ago, and influenza five times as many, the
Victorian death-rate has come down from 25 - S2 per 1000
people in 1875 to 12’99 per 1000 in 1904. Which is pretty
good proof of the decay of the neglected old diseases.
Running back over 25 years of Victorian medical
history, these are the principal features : —(1) The gradual
reduction of the death-rate from phthisis. It is still the
most sweeping of all diseases ; but it sweeps off 135 per
100,000 now as against 239 per 100,000 in 1880. (2) The
stamping out of typhoid. In 1878 it killed 119 per 100,000
of the population! In the past four years the proportion
has never got beyond 14 per 100,000. Thank the
Health Department and Socialism for nearly all of
this. (3) The rarity of deaths from scarlet fever. In
the two years 1875 and 1876 that simple disease
killed 1298 people ; the average for many years past has
been under a dozen. Generally speaking, the 3’oungster
who is born to-day hasn’t more than half the chances
of promptly dying that he had 30 years ago. In 1874, IS6
and a fraction out of every 1000 infants that were born died
within a year ; in 1904, all but 92 in every 1000 lived. The
youngster doesn’t get:born quite as often as he did ; but
when he comes, he is more liable to stay. (4) The worst
feature of almost all Australian-death-and-life statistics
is headed “ Cancer.” Gradually year by year, and almost
without a break in its deadly progress, this disease gets
faster into the heart of Australia, and, at the present rate
of progression, in less than 15 years will have more Aus-
tralian victims than phthisis—the “great white plague”
that gets five times more public attention.
* * » *
“Priam”: Vice-Royalty is a great and
awesome thing. Here is a notice which I saw
posted in a butter and eold-ineat shop. The
document was surmounted by a terrifying coat-of-
arms, in which three animals like billy-goats
danced on their hind legs along a device stating,
“ Christi Crux est mea Lux ”
His Excellency
The Lord Nortiicote
is hereby pleased to appoint
A. PORKER
to be Bacon and Ham Supplier in Ordinary to
His Excellency, and
A. PORKER
is hereby authorised to .style himself Bacon and Ham
Supplier in Ordinary to His Excellency the
Governor-General of the Commonwealth.
By command of His Excellency the Governor-General,
(Signed) CHAS. A. GREVILLE, Capt.
» * « *
The Waverley (Sydney) sanitary inspector
lately rooted out a pretty example of the insani-
tary woman. He deposed in court that the de-
fendant’s yard was littered with heaps of rotting
matter, that her house and premises were in a dis-
graceful state, and that at the time of his visit
12 cats and three mangy dogs wandered about the
hall. When he added that hens were sitting on
eggs in the dining-room and kitchen, the court
felt that it would like a whiff of fresh air.
* * * *
The course of the law, so far as it has got,
in the case of Wadey v. Mort’s Dock Co. :
(1) Wadey sued the Co. for damages, and was non-
suited.
(2) The N.S.W. Full Court set aside the non-suit, and
ordered a new trial.
(3) The co. appealed to the Privy Council against a new
trial (P.C. appeal No. 1).
(4) The case came before the Full Court on demurrer.
There was also a replication and sundries. Plaintiff won,
but there doesn’t seem to have been any money in if.
The co. appealed to the Privy Council (P.C. appeal No. 2).
(5) New trial, lasting 30 days. Plaintiff got verdict
against the co. for 1111,130. Appeal to the Full Court.
(6) The Full Court set aside the verdict. Plaintiff
appealed to the Privy Council (P.C. appeal No. 3). Tuns
the co. had two appeals before the P.C.. and Wadey had
one.
(7) The Privy Council dismissed all three appeals.
And the end of all these things is Costs.
“ Squidge ” is an alarmist :
Waranga Basin (Vic.), though a splendid scheme in
theory, is going to turn out an enormous failure in prac-
tice. The Basin, when filled, will supply irrigation water
for all the ’pootras within 50 miles of Kyabram. But it’s
almost a certainty that the ’pootras some wet night will
be all washed out of their beds. The big earthwork that
dams the water up is some miles long ; but, owing to
a nice sense of economy in building it, it is about 10ft.
too narrow for absolute safety, and the first big storm
when the Basin is full will crumble the bank away and
inundate the country for miles and miles. The country
is infested with rabbits, and they will soon lower the
safety limit of the bank to vanishing point. Already one
serious break-away has occurred ; the bank of the princi-
pal inlet channel gave way in the night, and about two
chains of embankment were swept away. The water was,
however, turned off, and not much damage was done.
A lake several miles in area and 30ft. deep can’t be turned
off, however, and it will be Heaven help the country when
the Waranga water breaks loose.
* * * *
“R.” : Ajyropos “O’Fipp” and names of
places off Little Bourke-street, Melbourne (8.,
26/10/’O5). In the fifties there were Romeo Lane
and Juliet Terrace, both off Bourke-street East,
north side. In the late seventies the terrace had
still its old name, but the lane was changed to
Crossley-street. In the early days both Romeo
and Juliet were of a moral habit that was simply
shocking considering their names, and their yells
at night were calculated to murder sleep, like
Macbeth.
* * * *
The Monkey’s unpleasant habit of
spilling himself about the premises on the
slightest provocation is chronic. The captain of
the recent!y-destroyed (by tire) battleship Mikasa,
after calling all the survivors together, t’other
day, and in an address severely blaming himself
for the disaster (though he was away at the time),
proceeded to make a horrible blot and display by
jumping from a high window after his audience
had departed.
THE VERSATILE DRUNK.
MRS. B IFFRM: “ Club, indeed ! Nothing I loathe
more than bare-faced lies.”
MR. B IFFRM: “ Kin ave ’em wi’ whiskers on if
y’r like, me dear (hic).”
Knox, M.P., in his capacity of “president
of the general council of the Chambers of Com-
merce of the Commonwealth,” had a most enjoy-
able evening last week. He gave a dinner in
honor of Australia’s revered G.-G. and most Noble
visitors—Lord Northcote and Lord Jersey. With
an Earl on either side of him Bill Knox was about
the proudest groveller that ever sat at meat. The
reports in the Melbourne dailies gave no idea of
Knox’s language in proposing the healths of his
exalted guests. He introduced the word “Noble-
man” at every possible opportunity, and he laid
such a reverential stress upon it that all the plain,
unvarnished Australians present seemed ignoble
creatures by comparison. And he was especially
grovelsome as regards Jersey—“the Honorable
Noble Lord.” Which suggests that Knox is look-
ing to the Noble Jersey to push his claim when
the next list of “ distinctions ” is made out.
* * * *
The much-cursed S’African swaddie, who
fought and burned and thieved for his bleeding
country, continues to have the long finger of scorn
pointed at him. A clerical big gun has just remarked
to a Maoriland synod that there had been a lot
of drinking among young men since the war. The
parable was taken up by others, and the inference
derivable was that the man in kharki Was fonder
of the pint-pot than he was of work. And it is
eminently true ; his thirst is chronic, and it takes
a veritable beer reservoir to accommodate him.
When not in gaol, many of these ’eroes spend the
days looking out for beer, and the nights fishing
for more beer.
* * * -V
“ Synic ” : Am informed by “ Melbourne
Chatter ” that the visiting wool-buyer who spreads
himself out at hotel bars is “ generally a bachelor.”
Was under the impression that he merely assumed
the unmarried state for touring purposes, and was
not taken seriously in that capacity except by his
adoring barmaids, who don’t know any better.
It’s an easy matter to pass for a lovesick bachelor
at a bar, anyhow. Hebe, who ought to be the
most sceptical of creatures, is as gullible in one
respect as the boarding-school miss. She sees a
possible husband in every old bounder who talks
“ pretty ” to her, and is never convinced of his
marriage until his angry missis has dropped in one
evening and led him away by the ear.
* * * *
“Celebrated Utterances of Great Men,”
as given by the Daily Express, Johannesburg
(8. Africa)
Brennus, the Gaul: ‘‘ Vae Victis.”
Julius Otesar ; “ Veni, vidi, vici.”
Louis XIV.: “L’etat, c’est moi.”
Blucher: “Forwards.”
Nelson: “ England expects . . . .”
Beaconstield : “ Peace with Honor.”
Schiller: “More Light.”
Galileo : “ Still—it turns.”
Bismarck : “ Mit Blut and Eisen.”
Lord Selborne : “ Milner’s works are superhuman.”
King David : “ All men are liars.”
Lord Milner: “ I don’t care tuppence.”
“Gentile” : Carlyle says
Christianity must strip off the
Hebrew old clo’ ; but I can t)
do it. Before me is the new
American “Jewish Cyclo-
paedia ” —ten big volumes,
with two more to come. The
first article I go for is “ Jesus
Christ.” Studiously fair.
The mythic idea of Strauss
is not even hinted at as the
foundation. IN or is there
such rosewater romance as
Kenan’s. The New Testa-
ment records are gently
analysed, with hardly
more destruction than
that of the “-Encyclo-
paedia Biblica.” Second-
ly, the article on Dis-
raeli attracts me. The
writer believes his
Christianity was genu-
ine. Thirdly, I turn
to Moses Mendels-
sohn, and the writer
quotes a saying of
him as the Third
Moses. Who was the
second ? Various
answers given will
be Joshua, Paul,
Peter, Mahomet,
Buddha, Sweden-
borg, Wesley, Joe
Smith, General
Booth—but I am
passing beyond the
time of the third
Moses. Mendels-
sohn, anyhow,
thoroughly deser-
ved the Moses-ship
- —a great man, in-
deed, and he is in
the veins of every .few
to-day, like the silver
distributed through the ocean.
Four hundred writers, the cream of
Jewish talent in America, Britain, Ger-
many and elsewhere, have been employed on the
“ Cyclopedia.” There is in it all the crystal
lustre of intellect, with scarcely a trace of pre-
judice.
* * * *
This is solemnly set forth in Hazell’s
Annual, an English work of general reference :
Ecclesiastical Law.
A moveable marble communion table is an illegal orna-
ment ; but a wooden table, to the three exposed sides of
which moveable slate and slabs covered with marble
mosaics are attached, is a legal ornament (Rector, etc., of
St. Luke’s, Chelsea, U. Wheeler).
Well, well! What a thing it is to be religious !
* * * *
Justice Cohen, in the N.S.W. Divorce
Court, put to the door of “the cursed drink”
most of the cases coming before him. It is a fair
wager that the “ cursed drapery ” is about equal to
drink as a divorce producer. Husbands, cer-
tainly, often come into court as defendants
through their vinous wickedness. Wives, as
often, because one man’s salary wasn’t sufficient to
satisfy an extravagant and unnatural craving for
clothes.
THE LADY ACROBAT.
T OMMR : “Now, then, auntie, over you go !”
N.S.W. insanity figures for 1904 are not
encouraging. There is a steady increase in the
lunacy average, which now reaches one in 28G of
the population. Still recoveries are frequent,
showing that the asylums are well conducted. In
1904 they averaged 43 per cent. Among the
causes of insanity drink comes first, with 149
cases to its discredit; business worry and impe-
cuniosity sent 61 to put straws in their hair, while
religion was responsible for 54 cases.
TO MARGOT.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I dearly loved a lady fair,
Whose name was Margot;
A steamer bore her far from me,
A precious cargo.
I met another charmer sweet,
When I lost Margot;
She scooted with a motor man,
I saw their car go.
The next one was a taller girl
Than darling Margot ;
She’s married now to one called Smith,
Who lives at Bargo.
And many more have caught my eye,
But none like Margot ;
Some age has placed upon the shelf—
A srreat embargo.
And none of them with her compare.
I shall afar go
To seek my long lost love again,
My own dear Margot.
We’ll love each other very much,
Myself and Margot,
And faithful prove till our two souls
Shall to a star go.
N.S.W.
J. G. M'EWES.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
JftfttES _R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128=130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
king street,
The Moat Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
TUSSORE SILK,
PLAIN or STRIPED
SUITS, 635.
FOR SUW€R
WCATHCR.
PONGEE
SILK
SUITS, 635,
Cool Comfortable ClotbeS
WHITE
SERGE
SUITS, 635,
Write for Patterns,
Self-Measurement Forms,
Fashion Plates FREE,
TENNIS and
HOLIDAY
SUITS, 63s*
R. C HAGON,
Merchant
Tailor,
129 King St, Sydney.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Treasurer Peake, of S. Australia, introduced a
Bill the other day to provide for the renewal of the
State’s most imminent P.N. and its most immediate
IO U. Some members were quite surprised to discover
that before October, 1910, £6,034,700 of troubles in the
shape of bonds and another £1,737,500 in the shape of
Treasury bills will be coming home to roost ; they
probably haven’t the ghost of an idea that in 1916 a vast
trouble of £9,486,045 will throw itself on the doorstep in
one heap and demand to be wrestled with. When, a while
ago, S. Australia had. to argue with a small enemy in the
shape of £850,000 of 3£ per cent, bills, it only got out of
the trouble by renewing them at 4 per cent., which
meant another £4250 of annual interest; and Premier
Price apparently remembered the little incident when he
deplored that several States would have to go on the
market at about the same time. But that is going to
happen as almost a regular thing now that the curse has
started to come home —it isn’t a mere coincidence of the
next two or three years. Take the list, compiled from
Coghlan, of the debts of four States falling due for some
years ah^ad: —
N.S.W. Vic. Queensland. S. Aus.
1907 ..£5,276,128 £5,050,000 £1,333,075
1908 .. 3,090,800 2,025,000 2,208,150
1909 .. 384,000 25,000 3,384,025
1910 .. 3,418,879 25,000 - 60,300
1911 .. 2,132,000 68,300
1912 .. 9,366,227 88,000 £530,000 85,000
1913 ... 4,746,759 2,066,500 46,300
1914 _ , 35,000
1915 11,728,800' 35,000
1916 9,486,045
1917 ... 3,120,492 3,546,200
1918 .. 12,826,200 1,474,400
But the States, being now able to borrow locally, are
doing it mostly on short-dated Treasury bills; so that
the figures for the last six or eight years in the foregoing
table will certainly be worse by the time they have to be
argued with. There are, even now, only two years in the
next 12 in which at least two States won’t be interested
in the argument; and in one of those years (1914) Tas-
mania (whose sins are not shown in the foregoing because
one column can’t hold the sins of a whole Oommonwealth)
will also be struggling with one of its P.N.’s ; and when
the period covered by the table is completed, Westralia
will also start to come into the controversy. And Aus-
tralia isn’t facing the situation with a sinking fund, out
of which.it could do something, supposing the argument
was gping against it ; while about all the advice it is
getting from its financiers is that no self-respecting State
that wants to go on being drunk all its life should really
drink more ttian £1,000,000 in any one year.
The Japanese “Financial and Economic
Annual, 1905,” issued by the Department of Finance,
shows the amazing j umps the Monkey has been making.
In 10 years the revenue has gone from £9,817,003 to
£29,350,094, the banking deposits from £19,113,541 to
£80,145,446. But the rice crop has only increased from
199 to 257 million bushels, and the barley and wheat crop
from 97 to 98 million bushels. So, though Japan has
made marvellous progress, it hasn’t been by “ developing
its great natural resources ’’—which the Australian Tory
always understands to mean growing wheat and wool.
On the other hand, the Jap’s coal output has increased
from 3,346,158 tons to 10,138,707 tons, an increase of 203
per cent. ; and that explains the situation. Japan, with
the help of a tariff running up to 200 per cent., has estab-
lished factories and industries ; and, though its agricul-
tural production isn’t as large per head of population as
it was 10 years ago, yet its revenue has increased just
upon 200 per cent., and its banking deposits by 319 per
cent.
* * * *
The Australian Woollen Co., one of the woollen
manufacturers recently referred to as being in difficulties
through the lowering of the tariff, has decided that it is
useless to carry on the struggle any longer ; and at a
meeting of shareholders in Melbourne last Friday it
was decided to hold a special meeting to deal with the
assets. Tenders meantime are to be invited for the
works. The co., whose mill is at Footscray, lost £l6OO
last year, and, like almost every other woollen mill in
Australia, has drifted into debt since the tariff was
reduced; its burden at present is about £BOOO.
The Freetrade crowd of course says that the trouble
is the result chiefly of “interference with labor
by the Wages Board.” To a great extent, too,
that is true. Even without any tariff at all Australia
could probably make a success of its manufactures if it
were willing to be a cheap labor country, and were pre-
pared to sacrifice its eight hours system, and its objections
to child labor. What it can’t have with the present tariff
are manufactures and fair Wages, hours, and conditions
of labor. And the Labor party goes on sinking the fiscal
question, as, though it weren’t concerned about such
things as wages, hours, and conditions of labor.
* * * *
The growth of life-assurance funds supplies one
reason why Australia should be even more ashamed of
itself for getting into debt to the foreigner now than 10
years ago. At the end of 1894 the accumulated funds of
Australian offices amounted to £19,240,944. The October
number of the N.S.W. Statistical Bulletin shows that
total assets at the end of 1904 were £34,241,309. There
has thus been in the last 10 years an accumulation of
£15,000,36.5, practically the whole of which has been
available for investment in those securities which Bull
Oohen likes best—mortgages and public stocks. There-
fore there are 15,000,365 more reasons now for doing
without Bull Cohen than there were 10 years ago, and
there are 15,000,365 more reasons for scoffing at the’ man
who implores Australia not to do anything sensible lest it
should drive foreign capital out of the country. On top
of the assurance-office accumulation there has been
another accumulation of over £5,000,000 in the savings
banks of N.S. Wales alone ; and that extra money has
also been available for the same sorts of investment. If
foreign -capital isn’t-being driven out of the country, it is
quite time somebody started to drive it with enthusiasm
or some other weapon.
* * * *
The accounts of N.S.W. Government (Post-
office) Savings Bank for the past year show a loss of
£20,817, which reduced the reserves to £37,838. Total
cost of management, with incidentals, was £26,998, of
which £9975 Was paid in commission to the Australian
Government; and the interest paid or credited to deposi-
tors was £251,474, or £3 ss. 2d. per cent, on the average
amount of deposits. The year opened with deposits of
£7,475,058 and closed with £7,952,885. Except £133,412
held in cash, the whole of the funds are represented by
N.S.W. public stocks or Treasury receipts. This
aciounts for the small earnings, and explains the
deficit. Since all its deposits carry interest the
Government Savings Bank pays, on an average
much higher interest than any other bank; while’
all the assets are in a form of security which’, if the
safest, also gives about the smallest return of a’ll those
dealt in by ordinary banks. Why the Savings Banks
shouldn’t take some of the more profitable business—such
as advances to farmers and others on freehold security
is incomprehensible. As usual, the State takes the work
that hasn’t any fat on it; and then private enterprise
carefully points at. the result and says the State doesn’t
know how to run things.
* *. * •
So far as getting cash for its goods is concerned,
Australia has. hardly a worse customer than Eno-land’
Victorian Statist McLean has just issued some'’trade
figures which show that in the past couple of years
though that State sent the United Kingdom £ll 233 211
worth of goods, it received £13,244,186 worth of mostly-
manufactured articles in return. In other words
Victoria didn’t receive any money at all from its export
trade to the United Kingdom, bnt had to hand over the
whole of that trade and £2,010,975 besides in order to pay
for British goods that mostly should have been made in
Australia. India and Ceylon are better customers—thev
paid Victoria £6,397,665 and Victoria paid them
£1,286,459, leaving a balance of £5,111,206 for the ex-
tension of Australian industry or for the repayment
of Australia’s foreign debt. S’Africa is a customer of
the same sort. Other European countries show up far
better than Britain does. Victorian trade with Belgium
in the two years left Vic. with a balance of £694,073 on the
right side ; with Germany, £323,121 ; while France paid
the State in hard cash no less than £2,046,372. Victoria
relieved itself of a little of its foreign public debt and a
great deal of its foreign private debt last year ; but it
wouldn’t do it if all the trade were on the British basis.
It was simply because it had some foreign customers who
didn’t expect us to buy 21s. of goods for every 20s. they
bought from us that the State was able to push off a
pound or two of its crushing burdens. Yet there are still
people who wonder what ever Australia would do but for
its commercial relations with a dear benevolent old
Mother Country.
* * * *
Melbourne Tramway Co. is not going the right
way about securing the extension of its lease, which
expires in 11 years. Instead of being conciliatory it is
arrogant, and has lately been making demands, not
only for a monopoly of the right to run trams in
the streets at present used, but also for the sole
right over the whole of the municipalities served by
its system. When Premier Bent proposed to connect
St. Kilda railway station with Brighton by means of a
State electric tram, the company fought all it knew, and
brought to bear all manner of influences to prevent a
quarter of a mile of State line passing through the
municipality of St. Kilda at all. It was not pro-
posed to run the line down the streets in which the
company already ran its cars, but to connect through a
different set of thoroughfares altogether, yet the company
bluffed at first and whined afterwards about the injustice
of State interference. That the co. was never intended
to have a monopoly of the suburbs is indisputably proved
by a number of legal points in the original Act, the most
striking being a provision that it must afford facilities
for the lines of any other tramway to cross its own.
This matter having been decided, the co. went
back growling to its kennel, but has now come
forward with an even more cheeky proposal to prevent
Bent’s State motor-cars from plying for hire in any
street in which tramways exist, the claim amounting
to one of ownership of the thoroughfare from wall to wall.
The logical conclusion of this contention would be the issue
of tickets at 2s. a dozen permitting pedestrians to walk
along the footpaths, the prosecution of any person whose
vehicle dares to set wheel on holy ground, and the collec-
tion of blackmail from bicycles, private vehicles, and
delivery vans. And the monstrous demands of the mono-
poly were defeated in the Leg. Council by only 14 to 12
votes. “If the Tramway Co. has its way when we have
fll'ing machines,” said old Martin Oussen, one of the few
moderately democratic men in the House, “ it will not
permit us to wing our way down Bourke-street.”
Compare the profits of three of the leading soft-
goods-importing firms (as given in Melbourne Trustees’
and Investors’ Review) with the results of the efforts of
three Australian softgoods manufacturing concerns :
Importing Companies.
1903. 1904. 1905.
Profits. Profits. Profits.
D. &W. Murray .. .. £40,149 £62,542 £69,417
R. Reid & Co 26,376 27,893 41,038
Patterson, L., & Bruce .. 23,833 48,502 46,500
Total profit .. .. £90,358 £138,937 £156,955
Manufacturing Companies.
1903. 1904. 1905.
Loss. Loss. Loss.
Queensland Woollen C 0... £1386 £2BBO £2795
Profit. Profit. Profit.
Castlemaine „ „ .. 2214 2155 1320
Ballarat „ „ 4484 4599 3162
Total profit .. '.. £5312 £3874 £1687
The three concerns that make their profits almost wholly
by importing the goods that have been made by foreign
workmen with the help of foreign capital in foreign
factories, have in three years netted profits totalling
£386,250. Speaking generally, all the Australian labor
that these co.’s have employed was a few badly-paid
men dragging the goods out of the ships and a few badly-
paid people—clerks and others—trying to sell the goods
to Australian people. And in the same three years
the three Australian manufacturing co.’s, employing
Australian labor and Australian capital and Australian
material, have made £10,873 altogether; and then
nothing is written off in most cases for wear and tear of
plant. While the profits of the importing concerns have
moved from £90,358 in 1903 to £156,955 in 1905, those of
the Australian concerns have fallen from a poor £5312 in
1903 to an utterly miserable £1687 in 1905. The two lots
of figures, taken together, supply evidence that ought to
be strong enough'.to convince anybody that the present
tariff is insufficient to keep Australian trade for Aus-
tralian workmen. Year by year the foreigner has
grabbed more and more of it. At first only the
capitalist suffered ; his profits came down and his
dividends disappeared. But now that profit has
vanished, the workman suffers—the factories are
either discharging hands or are closing up altogether.
Also the assets are in most cases mortgaged ; and the
bank or mortgage co. is finding itself either left, or very
liable to be left, with a quantity of machinery which it
won’t pay to work under the present tariff, and which it
won’t pay to shift. But the workman who has lost his
job, and the landlord whose house he lives in, and who
can’t get rent for the house, and the bank with the doubt-
ful asset, can all have the satisfaction of knowing that
the mostly - foreign importing concerns are doing
splendidly.
* * * *
The philanthropists of the Stock Exchanges
have beaten the White Knight of Melbourne Board of
Works, and latter, at the eleventh hour, had to offer
i per cent, commission on the £500,000 loan conversion.
Even then the conversion was only a very moderate
success, and the time for receiving applications had to be
extended. The Exchange, anxious to prove its influence
is vigorously whipping in the interests of the scheme’
but, after all, a third of the debentures (4A per cent.) will
probably have to be provided for by a hew loan. Con-
sidering the price, and the supposed plenty of money
just now, and the cost, and the very partial success of the
conversion notwithstanding the cost, the whole trans-
action is enough to give at least two Australian State
Treasurers the creeps when they think of the debts they
have falling due.
* * * *
The National Eire and Marine Insurance
Co. (Dunedin, M.L.) :
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1895.. £16,981 15 p.c. =£14,706 £2123 £152 £lllOO7
1896.. 16,740 15 ~ ~ 14,706 2248 - 110’793
1897.. 16,216 15 ~ ~ 14,706 986 524 H1’317
1898.. 8,846 12J ~ ~ 12,255 107’908
1899.. 20,028 „ „ 12,255 7,773 115 681
1900.. 26,358 lit- „ „ 12,255 1000 13,133 128!5i4
1901.. 24,600 12t ~ ~ 12,255 12,345 141,159
Premiums on new shares .. 2,029 143’188
1902.. 32,436 12J p.c. = 12,500 19,936 163J24
1903.. 27,622 15 „ „ 15,000 12,622 175,746
1904.. 35,4i4 15 ~ ~ 15,000 23,414 199’160
1905.. 26,009 15 „,, 15,000 552 10,457 209’617
The lower level of profits is apparently due partly to
keener competition, which has involved a growth of the
expense rate, and partly to a less satisfactory experience
in the matter of losses. To some extent these points are
shown by the comparison that follows :
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses. Rate. Rate.
£ & £ p.c. p.c.
1895 82,935 49,052 26,560 59‘2 32-0
1900 102,264 54,991 29,950 53'8 29’4
1903 109,856 59,843 33,699 54‘5 307
1904 113,301 52,544 35,091 46'4 31’0
1905 107,648 58,996 .38,402 54'8 - 33 -g
The underwriting profit (11-4 percent, of the premiums)
is under the Australasian average. But management
expenses are no doubt higher than they would be if the
investments were different. The co. has £172,850
out on mortgage ; and to use money that way costs
something more than if it were put into public stocks.
On the other hand, the earnings are far larger. On in-
vestments of all sorts the return for the past year was £4
12s. Id. per cent., which is at least 1 per cent, more than
the Australasian average, and that means £3OOO a year
Maonland is a place which has Arbitration laws, and
graduated land-tax, and most of the other things
that in Australia are alleged to be the sure
means of driving a country to the dogs; and
yet the National Insurance Co. and other big financial
concerns in Maoriland are so sure that that country isn’t
going to the dog;s that they are willing to put their assets
in a security which the Australian fire offices don’t Gener-
al y trust their money to. The immediate result is that,
while Australian fire office investments show a return of
from 3 to 3J per cent., the M.L. offices get from 41 to 5
per cent. In addition to mortgages the co. has £57,290
in debentures, £ll,BOO in freeholds, £62,000 on deposit,
and £40,879 in cash balances, &c. The capital is £lOO,OOO ;
on that and reserves the profit is at the rate of £8 14s.
per cent. ; and if the new State fire office will let the co.
earn that, or anything like it, there won’t be much
reason for the growl that Private Enterprise is being
crushed out of existence. The small amount shown in
the table as having been written off during the year was
an amount; lost on realising certain securities.
* * * *
The Executor, Trustee, and Agency Co. of
South Australia (Adelaide)
Written Added
off Lease- to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. hold. serves, serves.
1898.. £l3lO 5 p.c. =£536 £774 £1475
1899.. 1593 5 „ „ 589 £2OO 804 2279
1900.. 927 5 „ „ 745 75 107 2386
1901.. 1877 5 „ „ 767 685 425 2811
1902.. 1833 5 „ „ 767 690 376 3187
1903.. 2836 6 „,, 921 1915 5102
1904.. 1957 6 ~ „ 921 95 971 6073
1905.. 2301 7 „ ~1074 100 1127 7200
This very prosperous co. lias made considerable progress
during the year; the value of estates in hand is £1,413,954
as compared with £1,265,360 twelve months ago. But
the expenses are rather high—anyway, for S. Australia,
which is a State that wears but little frill, and
generally pays accordingly. The Permanent Trustee Co.
of Sydney costs 2s. 9d. "per cent, of trust estates to run ;
the S. Australian figure is 4s. Bd. per cent. Certainly
the Sydney office has in hand estates to the value of
nearly twice as much as the Adelaide office; but that
shouldn’t make all the difference. Still, with their funds
(capital and reserves) earning £lO ss. 9d. per cent., share-
holders are not likely to complain. Clients’ interests are
more or less guaranteed by investments and cash amount-
ing to £22,779, plus £3 10s. liability on 10,000 shares. The
investments show the rather poor return of £3 Bs. Id. per
cent. ; but as against the modesty of the return set the
fact that about four-fifths of the investments are S.A.
Government stocks. The div. has been put up (or, at
least, an extra 1 per cent, has been added to the bonus);
and, as it still leaves 51 per cent, of the net profits to go
to reserves, no fault can be found with the increase,
especially when it is made in this tentative way.
* * * *
The East Greta Coal Mining Co. (Maitland,
N.S.W.): —
Writ- To
ten Re Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept.,’o4.. 10 p.c. = £5703 £3OOO £12,952
Mar., ’05.. £8053 10 „ „ 6250 3000 11,755
Sept.,’os.. 8427 10 „ „ 6370 2000 £57 11,812
This co. owns the East Greta and also the Stanford-
Merthyr colliery, where the explosion occurred the other
day : the accounts don’t, of course, show the consequences
of that disaster. From all that can be learned, though,
the fire has been controlled ; the biggest hole in the co.’s
profits will probably be through loss, not only of current
trade, but of customers. There is keen competition in
the coal trade these times, and one co.’s disaster makes
another co.’s chance. The East Greta, though it does
something more than the average coal co. in writing
down its.assets, including freehold, nevertheless pays
dividends to almost the last available shilling. It has
recently increased its capital ; the last balance-sheet
shows that £13,739 was raised during the half-year. But
mortgages and bills on Stanford - Merthyr purchase
account have only been reduced by £4600, though there
was enough cash in hand to do a good deal more in the
same way if the co. felt inclined. Surplus of liquid assets
over liabilities is now £5889 ; six months ago, before this
£13,739 was got in, the deficit was £2582. "The mortgage
has been reduced to £BOOO ; practically the whole of the
other liabilities are now “ sundry creditors ” —the balance
on the Stanford-Merthyr account is only £702. Of the
new issue of 25,000 shares (making 150,000) 21,937 were
allotted ; and, £13,739 having been paid on these, there is
£Bl9B still to be received on account of this issue.
♦ * * *
The City of Brisbane Building Society, which
began business seven years ago with a deficit of £42
(preliminary expenses): —
Dividends and Carried to De-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, ficit.
1899 .. £6O 5 p.c. =£36 £24 £lB
1900 ..123 5 „ „ 108 15 3
Reserves.
1901 .. 188 5 „ „ 167 21 18
1902 .. -206 5 „ „ 199 7 25
1903 .. 275 5 „ „ 255 20 45
1904 .. 260 5 „ „ 241 19 66
1905 ..239 5 ~ ~242 .. 63
The society has barely held its own. To some extent it
has had to rely upon overdraft for funds, and the business
isn’t profitable enough to stand that. Yet there seems
a difficulty about getting in other capital. The big
investor doesn’t favor the building society, and the small
investor, who wants building-society help, pretty often
nowadays turns to the Starr-Bowkett societies, which
offer him something in the way of a gamble as well as an
investment. Yet, in favor of this City of Brisbane
Society, it can be said that apparently it has no proper-
ties whatever in possession or payments in arrears, and,
though for seven years’work the figures are small, still
this other record is highly creditable—it counts, in fact,
for a good deal more than big figures.
* * * *
Bendigo Mutual Permanent Land and Build-
ing Society (Bendigo, Yic.) :
Added
Net to Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1900 .. 5 per cent. =£2480 £21,296
1901 .. £2641 5 „ „ „ 2461 £lBO 21,476
1902 .. 2310 5 „ „ „ 2323 21,463
1903 . 1905 5 ~ „ ~ 2151 21,217
1904 . . 1611 5J „ „ ~ 2309 20,519
1905 .. 2124 6 „ „ „ 2410 20,233
The aggregate amount of the 1905 dividend is an estimate ;
the exact sum will not be known till the next balance-
sheet is issued. But it is possible to get pretty close to
the real thing; for 1904 the total was estimated at
£2300, and it worked out at £9 more. The further
increase of dividend looks an unwarranted pro-
ceeding in the face of the figures. profits
are certainly sufficient to pay the dividend ; in the last 12
months they amounted to £3475. But, then, £1350 was
written off securities. If these are old losses, which
should have been written off in the past, then the in-
crease of dividend can be understood ; but if they are
merely current losses or depreciation, then it isn’t under-
standable. It wasn’t in that way that this society
escaped reconstruction when other societies were tum-
bling to pieces all around it. The deposits total £85,240,
as against £86,400 a year ago ; shareholders’ funds total
£61,713 against £63,735. Twelve months ago the society
had enough cash in hand to pay the dividend and have
£386 over ; this year it has almost everything—deposits,,
capital and reserves—out in advances, &c., and has not
enough cash or bank balances by £824 to pay even the
dividend with. What would happen if the society had to
face a sudden call from depositors can’t be too pleasant
to think about. It is certainly cutting things very fine..
*■*-**
The Westralian Producers’ Co-operative
Union, Ltd., whose work is bigger than its figures::—
Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves.. Deficit..
£lO9
1903 .. £5B £5B 51
Loss.
1904 .. 38 —— 89
Profit. Reserves.
1905 .. 146 146 57
The union, which now has something like 1000 members,
was formed for the purpose of enabling Westralian farmers
and fruitgrowers to co-operatively do without a host of
middlemen. Agriculture and fruit-growing in the West
hardly ranked as industries. Things just happened, and
were allowed to happen. There were no grain sheds
along the railways, and, of course, none at Fremantle,
there being' no export trade. In the fruit business it was
the same ; there was an utter lack of organisation. So
far this union has spent most of its energies (and commis-
sion) repairing these defects. It claims to have made
a vast difference in the prices at which the farmer can
get his fertilisers, wheat-sacks, and other requirements ;
and now it is helping him find a market. In the accounts
issued the union claims reserves of £325, but that is
arrived at by reckoning in as an asset £268 which has
been spent apparently in extending- business, and isn’t an
asset which an auditor can either touch, smell, or taste.
In the table it has therefore been disregarded.
* * * *
Westralian gold yield for October was 160,6220 z.
The total for year so far is 1,629,9730 z, against 1,654,2250 z.
for same period of 1904. This means a shortage of
24,2520 z., which is more likely to be increased than
decreased before December 31st.
* * *
Ex-manager Harper has resigned his director-
ship of Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.). Percy Morgans,
late manager of Westralia Mt. Morgans, has been asked
to examine the property ; and, whether his report is
favorable or not, it is certain the bottom level is dis-
appointing. The Is. 6d. a share dividend foreshadowed
for December can hardly be forthcoming, the last three
months’ profits being £3700, £3BOO and £4700, a total of
£12,200. After paying off debts this would leave about
£6OOO. November’s profits may amount to £5OOO, and
Is. div. requires £lO,OOO. This much may be paid, if only
for appearance sake.
» * * *
Karridale, Burtville (W.A.), continues to blaze.
Latest return is 1120 oz. from 156 tons. Up to date mine
has produced 33100 z. from 365 tons. Burtville is the best
“ poor man’s field ”in W.A., and the average returns for
years range about 2Joz. For the most part the reefs are
too small, though, for highly capitalised co.’s.
* * * *
Mt. Morven copper mine (W. A.) is the property
that was owned by Mt. Margaret RewardG.M., and aban-
doned in 1901. It is now held by W. B. M’Cormack and
party, who recently sent six tons to the Waratah
smelting works for 34971 b. copper and 9oz. 12dwt. gold,
valued at £137. This is said to be a fair average from a
big reef; so owners should be in for a good time. Ore
worth £23 a ton should pay well, even at such a long
distance from the coast.
* » * *
East Eingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), recently
offered its unissued shares at ss. when the market price
for those issued was 6s. 6d. Since then the latter have
naturally fallen to ss. too. Some gaudy reports have
been issued about the mine lately, and much has been
done to boom the show. In a winze below No. 2 level,
reef was said to be sft. wide and worth 22dwt. In the
shaft at 413 ft. reef was reported to be 3ft. wide and worth
61dwt. A level is now being opened at 500 ft., and some-
thing may be heard of the concern shortly.
» » * *
Great Eingall Associated, Day Dawn, which
was said to have been floated early in 1904 in Perth, has
reverted to original owners. Out of a capital of 250,000
shares owners were to get 125,000, together with £5OO
cash. Although nearly two years have elapsed since the
alleged flotation, the £5OO cash has never been paid. An
attempt Was recently made to unload the show on to
J. Bull, but that failed too. Yet some Perth papers raged
at random when, at the outset, The Bulletin held the
Fingall Associated up as a wild cat to be avoided, and
those Perth papers predicted that a great future was
assured for it.
* * * *
Murchison Associated, Day Dawn, has for years
been before the public, and, after ten years’ working, is
still in a bad way. In May last it was stated that the
shaft would be sunk at the rate of 80ft. monthly, but that
prophecy has not been fulfilled. A 10-head mill was
erected and crushings started, but results were so poor
that the mill was shut down. Mine is a wild cat, not-
withstanding that scrip is quoted at about 6s.
* * * *
Great Fingall, Day Dawn, reckons that it has
got fairly into the shoot at north end of property at
bottom levels. It must, however, be remembered that
the ore shoot is not more than 1300 ft. long, and that both
north and south it branches off, and no mine on those
branches has got anything of value. Divs. for a long time
ahead are assured ; but the silver lining has the before-
mentioned cloud at the back of it.
* * * *
North End G.M., Kalgoorlie, has been boomed
too much. A 15-head mill has been erected, but there is
no stone developed. Some interested people are trying
to work a coup, and speculators and investors should
know what to do in those circumstances.
* * * *
Value of Lake View Consols shares will take
some finding out soon. The co. has just paid £70,000 for
a half-interest in a Broken Hill mine, whose profits (it has
never made any so far) will depend on. the silver, lead,
and zinc markets. Besides that, it has interests in
Russia and S. America. The man who ascertains the
value of all these, and therefore what the shares should
be really worth, will have to put in 29 hours a day at the
job.
* ■* * *
Owners of the Fenian mine, in North Murchi-
son district (W. A.), have been offered £20,000 cash and
10,000 shares for their 12-acres lease, but have decided to
work it themselves. Six of them have drawn £3OOO
apiece already, and reckon they will get as much more
next year. Remembering the tricky nature of Murchison
reefs, the owners of the .Fenian are taking big risks.
Nine years ago £30,000 was refused for the Welcome,
Murchison, and for a time the owners thought they had
done the right thing. A little pipe of almost pure gold
ran almost vertically through pure white kaolin, and
over a thousand ounces were taken out in a week. After
that it was found the kaolin continued to go down, but
the gold didn’t. The mine turned out an arrant duffer—
just like the Mainland Golconda, New Chum, Fortune of
War, Star of the East, and 50 others on the Murchison.
* * * *
Taking a line from what neighboring mines are
doing, Broken Hill Block 14 ought to be able to make
a profit of 10s. a ton from its sulphides, apart from
anything it may get for its tailings, with lead at £13105.;
and on an output of 2000 tons a week, a difference of £1
for lead either way should mean about £5OOO per half-
year. With the mill in full work profit should, therefore,
be now £35,000 per half-year, on the capital of £155,000
(£125,000 in ordinary shares and £30,000 in pref. shares).
■» * * *
The market is working in the dark as to the
British Broken Hill’s profits ; and no Broken Hill mine,
except the Junction, has given more erratic results.
Present output is slightly over 3000 tons of sulphides a
week; and the stuff averages 15 - 8 per cent, lead and
lOToz. silver, as against the South’s 16'9 per cent, lead
and 7-3 oz. silver for last half-year. From that ore the
South Co. made 11s. Bd. per ton profit, and that was with
lead at £l3 2s. 6d. per ton. An extra 20s. a ton should
add about 2s. 4d. to the value of British ore. No Barrier
mine has had better developments underground during the
12 months than the British ; and it has not only a big
area, but a bigger unworked area of known ore-
bearing country than any other on the line. The
ore bodies are not as regular as in the South, but, for all
that, it is a mine of very great possibilities ; arid if it had
been handled as well as the South, it would not have had
its disastrous slumps. But, while Block 10 is in 100,000'
shares and the South in 200,000 shares, the British has to
carry 300,000. On account of the irregularity of its bodies
and the comparatively small quantity of ore actually
opened out, it is still a good deal of a gamble ; but it is
also a gamble in which there are chances of a big prize,
* * * *
Re profits from zinc treatment. B.H. Block 14
spent £12,048 last half-year, and received £15,882 ; profit,
£3834. The zinc material handled amounted to 22,600
tons. Profit was thus 3s. 4|d. per ton. No doubt
the co. was handicapped by having to pay dearly for acid,
and through irregular working. On the other hand,
spelter is £2B 7s. 6d. per ton now, against £25 at the close
of last year, and £2l ss. at the close of 19031
* *
Cobar Gold Mines (N.S.W.) on September 30th
had £63,365 in cash and £4658 in gold on which to hatch
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY appliances prop. 504 uttle Co , linB st>> MELBOURNE
Stocks STEEL RAILS, TIPPING TRUCKS, TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROBEY
Portable Engines, Vertical & Horizontal Engines, High Speed Engines
for Electric Light, &c-, &c.
EXPLOSIVES anH MINING REQUISITES generally.
Sydney Manager : A. E. Lerlastrier.
CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
Melbourne Manager: 0. A. Lbmpriere.


out the long-deKayed scheme for handling’ the sulphides.
Another explanation of the long delay is now given— It
is considered advisable to delay deciding upon any parti-
cular process pending the further opening up of the mine
at 316 ft. and 438 ft. levels. This work will probably be
completed in about eight or nine months.” Read that,
however, in conjunction with another announcement-
regarding “ the possibility of the co. being approached in
regard to the absorption .of its property in a larger
scheme”—and you probably get nearer the true in-
wardness of the mark-time policy. Charles M.
Rolker, who does a lot of work for a big S’African
crowd, and lately, after visiting Great Fingall (W.A.),
supplied on that mine the most elaborate report
yet made on any Australian property, is at Cobar
iiow, sampling and working in his usual secretive way.
Though it wasn’t mentioned that his instructions covered
the Cobar Gold Mines (the old Fort Bourke), there isn’t a
doubt but that his mission is in connection with the
“larger scheme.” The Josephs syndicate would have
pulled it off 18 months ago if it hadn’t opened its mouth
so wide ; and, in spite of that rebuff, it has never lost con-
fidence in its ability to carry through the big amalgama-
tion deal. With the turn in the copper market, and the
big profit which the Syndicate is supposed to have made
out of the Chesney since it took over that mine, the deal
ought to be easier to pull off now.
• * # *
A half-share in the C.S. A. (Oobar) has been sold
for £l5OO, the biggest price actually paid to date ; on that
basis the show is valued at £132,000. Meaning of C.S. A.
is something of a mystery. In a case up at Cobar, when
the O.S.A. was mentioned, and the Judge' wanted to
know what it meant, Crick answered promptly, “Can’t
Satisfy Anybody.” That was after the mine had been
unsuccessfully hawked around for years. But the truth
seems to be that, when the outcrop was found and first
worked years ago, the prospectors who held it were a
Cornishman, a Scotchman, and an Australian —hence
O.S.A. Men who have given it a try in the
past were, in particular, Cornish, Priest, and Andrew;
Oobar thought so little of it that when, a few years ago,
Cornish and Priest tried to get some money in to help
them continue prospecting, the only share-application
received was from Andrew. In 1894 a Broken Hill syndi-
cate had it, but turned it down, though Priest (who
represented the syndicate) begged for more sinking.
Later on some of the Great Oobar people had a look in,
and, with heaps more money to burn than any of the
previous holders, they were able to do what none of the
others had managed in 30 years.
* * * *
Crowl Creek, Shuttleton (N.S.W.), has been
crosscutting for the lode at the 530 ft. level since July,
and apparently couldn’t see it when it had found it.
Something that manager Armstrong couldn’t persuade
himself was the lode was passed through at 130 ft. from
the shaft, but, as nothing else was found, he came back
and started to open out at this point. Things
improve as they rise and drive south ; in the rise, now
about 30ft. up, there is 2ft. of ore, and in the drive a fair
face. Lodes may always be expected to “ pinch and
make,no doubt; but for all that, so far as it has been
proved, this experience at 530 ft.—the deepest level—isn’t
too cheerful.
* * * *
The Barrier (N.S.W.) has now started to pro-
duce wolfram. The claims are near the Tarrawingee rail-
way, under 30 miles from Broken Hill ; the seams are
narrow, rarely running to more than 6in., but the mineral
is pure, and worth, undressed, about £4B or £5O per ton.
* * * *
Magnetic concentration has been a success in
dealing with zinc ore containing iron pyrites and ehalco-
p.vrite, and large quantities of zinc ore are now concen-
trated in America by both the magnetic and electrostatic
methods. The Americans seem to get higher grade con-
centrates than have hitherto been obtained at Broken
Hill. A considerable quantity of American zinc ore
is exported to Europe; but there is a vast differ-
ence in sending a 60 per cent, concentrate
across the Atlantic and sending 40 per cent, ore
half round the globe. The lower the grade of zinc ore
the higher is the proportion of loss in distillation, and the
consumption of fuel on the poor ore is just as great as on
the higher grade. Cost of fuel and labor is the main con-
sideration in zinc smelting. Judging from the high prices
paid in America for ore, smelting losses and expenses
must have been reduced of late. Magnetic concentration
and improved recovery would, in the ordinary course,
mean increased production and lower prices for spelter,
and that may hit the Zinc Corporation pretty hard.
* * * V
N.S.W. Mines Department manages to get
itself suspected, whatever its real character may be. Only
the other day there was the open allegation Of a leakage
of information regarding a discovery at Orange. Now
Oobar and other people want to know what has been done
with Chief Mining Inspector Jaquet’s report on the
O.S.A. He visited the mine on Sept. 25, and the public
doesn’t know the result yet. Did Jaquet report, or did
he just go out there for fun ? If he has reported, who has
the valuable information that Jaquet no doubt collected ?
The public certainly hasn’t got it. If he went out for fun,
and didn’t report, then who paid the bill ?
* * » *
Gold, £509,000; dividends, £73,000. What a
record of patience and toil! Figures, as may be sur-
mised, represent the outcome of operations at a Victorian
deep-lead mine—the Madame Berry West. Claim is a
step away from the Madame Berry, but inferior in every
respect to that famous property. Isaac Wheeldon made
the mine, for in the early days it went through many
vicissitudes and frightened out all save the stickers. Now
a crowd of old-timers, with Joe English and Maughan at
their head, rule it. A big field of wash seems to have caused
a wide distribution of gold; so there are none of
the marvellously rich runs that gave the Madame
Berry riches. 00., a while back, bluffed the West Berry
Oonsols into giving it a slice of ground at the top end of
its claim for a slab of the West Loughlin lease. It is
pretty certain that the gold of the future will have to
come from the block so got, and not from the wash
followed into the upper part of the West Loughlin
ground. 00. pays three or four 6d. divs. each half-year.
Its halance-sheet shows how the money has gone. All
the calls made only totalled £9OOO. Gold won gave
£509,000. Divs. took £73,000, leaving £446,000, apart
from calls, to be accounted for. Wages took £300,000 ;
while timber, firewood, fuel, and ironmongery and
chandlery ate up nearly all the rest.
* * * *
Creswick (Vic.) mines are nearly as cheaply
managed as those of Bendigo. The Madame Berry
West, in A. J. Peacock’s office, has grubbed out so
far £509,000 worth of gold, and has had to sink three
shafts to do it. From first to last the board fees have
only amounted to £1052, or less than some Bull-managed
Westrahan co.’s pay their directors in four months. And
all the Berry group mines call for managing ; so far as the
directors are concerned, running a Westralian mine is
beer and skittles by comparison. The Berry West has in
one way and another spent up to now, apart from divi-
dends, £450,000, and all the office expenses of the mine,
including rates, rents, and compensation, have amounted
to only £lO,OBl.
* » * *
M‘Go wan’s Clarence United, Bendigo (Vic.),
having failed to live up to its 995. reputation, is now
trying its best to buttress a 30s. market. So far it has
put nothing very solid into that support. Where it looks
tor something to keep the pot boiling is in the formation
it hopes to tap at 2380 ft. Its winze from 2280 ft. carries
about a foot of quartz which enthusiastic Bendigonians
say consists of splendid mineralised stone. But there is
no gold, and, until the precious metal shows up, mineral-
ised stone won’t suffice to keep shares moving. All the
same, scrip is held very closely, and, therefore, fools alone
would take liberties with the stock. A speck of gold
would mean a 10s. rise.
* * * *
How Bendigo does stick to its own mines !
Latfienne Reef, which has shot ahead this year on the
strike at 2200 ft., is in 61,931 shares, and 49,651 of them
a ? e held in Bendigo and Eaglehawk, including Lansell’s
nice little lot of 26,000. New Argus, which came along
with a div. in February, and has since divided 16s. a
share, or Is. 4d. more than has been paid on the 30,000
snares, is also held in much the same way ; about 23 000
shares are on the local register. The Bendigo man goes on a
that !u n ,? e p an ' ba9 the most perfect confidence
that all his main-reef mines will “ come ” sooner or later •
so when one is poking about to find stone, and shares are
or thereabouts, he buys up (generally an out-
sider s interest) and sits down to wait, and pay a few calls.
And in about nine cases out of ten, his confidence brino-s
thh time I°H fc h The °, U i sider usua % rushes in at about
the anmf u d bU v S ~? an< ? the Bendigo man presently gets
the same shares back at a fifth the price, and waits and
f e ' v ca ’ ls a f a in. For the outsider, who doesn’t
look at a Bendigo stock till it is booming on divs that
never last very long, Bendigo is generally a pretty
disastrous field ; but for the patient Bendigonian it isn’t.
All Australia is his gold-mine.
* * * *
Willcocks’ efforts to get the office of the O.K.
shifted south from Cairns (N.Q.) will be helped on by re-
cent ructions. Alleged that the first that one of the
directors knew about the strike of 18 p.c. ore at the
deeper level was when he got an offer of 14s. for 5000
shares—a jump of about Is. 6d. (the jump went on to
17s. 6d.). Adelaide speculators knew about the develop-
ment long before it was officially reported, and Sydney
got buying orders while the chairman was still stating
(no doubt quite truly) that he knew nothing. Now the
question is : Did any of the other directors or executive
officers know ? Melb. Exchange is inclined to join Bris-
bane in viewing the matter seriously ; but Sydney hasn’t
shown much interest.
* * * *
Adelaide feels better since it got the “ pull ” on
Brisbane over the last O.K. boomlet. Brisbane left it
with Mt. Molloys to nurse at a high price ; now the "holy
southern city calls things square.
* * * *
The next flutter in Queensland mining will be
in Gulf-country shows, following the passing of the
Burketown-Lib'dale Syndicate Railway Bill. This Bill
was first put through in 1900, but the money was not
forthcoming; present Bill extends the time, and the
money is now said to be waiting. Townsville and Charters
Towers already have prospectors out, and a silver-lead
show, prospected by E. O. Davies, was easily put off into
a co. in N.Q. last week. Gaudy reports on prospects for
silver-lead, tin, copper, monazite, and other metals have
been made. The point that will want most watching in
every case js as, to costs. Even with the Lilydale line
built, anything like cheap working seems impossible. The
new Bill provides that the line shall be built by the end
of 1907 ; if it isn’t, the £5OOO deposit will help Kidston
through his Treasury troubles. The route will be from
the mouth of the Albert, on the Gulf, via Burketown to
the Lilydale, 120 miles altogether.
* * * *
Dalzell’s, the recent sensational Herberton dis-
trict (N.Q.) tin float, has left a good many over-sanguine
people lamenting. It was put off in Bs. shares ; and such
was the mana of John Moffatt and the other men who had
it in hand that shares went to £1 before scrip was issued.
Allotment of shares was represented as a good deal in the
way of a personal favor ; and when some cautious people
wanted to take their profit on some of the shares they
hadn’t yet got, they were covered with reproaches. Result
was shares were kept off the market, and the tighter they
were kept back the harder some people struggled to get
them, so the price sprang to 245. As The Bulletin
pointed out at the time, if the promoters, who knew the
mine better than anybody else, had reckoned the show
was worth 245. a share, they wouldn’t have sold it for Bs.
If the sinking from the tunnel had proved quite satis-
factory, the high quotation might have been justified ;
but that was the risk—a large-sized risk in North Queens-
land —and the sinking didn't prove satisfactory. The lode
wasn’t proportionate to the- size of the surface show.
There isn’t, therefore, any difficulty now about getting-
shares (issued as paid to 10s.) at 13s. 6d. So far as can be
judged from recent developments, the mine will turn out
all right—for the people, anyway, who got their shares
for Bs. For the others—well, they set their (want of)
judgment against John Moffatt’s; and in tin-mining
matters that isn’t advisable.
* * * *
Charters Towers (Q.) position for 10 months
Dividends. Calls. Surplus.
1904 .. £327,080 £73,219 £253,861
1905 .. 174,865 78,727 96,138
The figures, though bad still, are improving a little ; and
low-water mark seems to have been passed. And yet it is
pretty certain that the Towers—which, in a mining way,
is about the greediest goldfield in Australia—hasn’t
learned the lessons of the slump.
* * * *
Lyell Blocks (Tas.) at ss. 9d. gives to this
300,000 share show a market value of over £BO,OOO, and
anyone may ask why. Plant eats up about 5000 tons of
copper-bearing clays a week, and saves a shade over 1 per
cent, of copper. To pay 6d. a quarter means £7500, and
profits on the copper saved mount up so slowly that not
more than that div. can well be looked for. The mine
isn’t plain sailing, by any means. Country is soapy
schist, and the water gets in from the surface.
During the past month co. had trouble with one stope,
and the risk chokes off as many as does the poorness of
the ore. Tolhurst and Tom Harvey were the main props
of the mine for many a day, and, as London decided to
buy back its holding, they have netted a div. out of the
market without having to wait for problematical distri-
butions from the mine. Lucky pair—but they always
were Fortune’s favorites ! '' '
* * * #
What is up with Briseis Extended (Tas.) ? Is a
Bull raid contemplated, or are the “ snuffers” out? Any-
way, the stock is sickly, and the blue-nosed crowd who
flitted from Gladstone into Extended are not perky. The
coup over the engagement, as manager, of Williamson
from the Briseis fell rather flat. Everyone knows that
Paul Northey has fixed a standard, and to live up to it
without that apostle being in charge is not the -easiest
thing in the world. Then there have been whispers
that the bottom is showing ; but it is treason
to hint at shch a possibility, mucji less to ask
why boring is not gone on with. It is said, too,
that the public eye Was not dimmed to the fact that,
had it not been for the sale of reserve shares, co.
would have shown a very poor balance sheet. There has
been too much talk over the Briseis Extended. It
was the same with the Briseis, ditto with the New
Brothers Home No. I, ditto with the Gladstone, ditto
with the Wyniford, ditto with the St. Helens, and ditto
with the Mt. Stronach. Not one of these shows has come
up to expectations, so why should the public plunge over
them ?
* * * *
To appreciate the actual position of Mt. Lyell
(Tas.), the record for the September half-year must be
put against the figures for previous terms :
Working
Price of Costs
Profit.. ..Copper. per ton.
March, 1904 .. £110,949 ; £57 15s. Id.
Sept., 1904 .. 125,034 . 57J 14s. BJd.
March, 1905 .. 145,778 66 13s. Old.
Sept., 1905 .. 188,578 67J 13s. 3jd.
The first period consisted of eight months. The crescendo
movement, it will be seen, arises largely from an increase
of over £lO in the price of copper. With this has to be
linked a reduction in costs from 15s. Id. to 13s. 3Jd. A
veil is drawn over the trading operations of the co. in
respect to its superphosphate works, save as relates to
expenditure. Perhaps this is excusable, as the co. has
rivals in the business ; but shareholders need to watch
this enterprise closely to see that it does not eat up
profits.
* * * •
■ J. Bull is again to be asked to put a bit into a
Northern Territory dredging scheme ; miles and miles on
the McKinley River and Bridge Creek have been taken
up for the purpose. If a Victorian or Maoriland syndi-
cate ran the business, as similar businesses are run in
those States, there would be money in it; but the Aus-
tralian Mining and Development Co., a Melbourne con-
cern, made such a mess of a similar enterprise a few years
back that nobody had the pluck to approach Colli ns-
street again. The N.T. is the only part of Australia where
the mining co. has had practically unlimited cheap dis-
colored labor; and is the only part of Australia where
every mining co. has come to grief on the rock of Costs.
The yellow laborer is in nearly every case horribly dear.
But the manager and the co. have heard so much about
“ cheap labor ” that when they have got that blessing,
they have started out themselves to do the thing with
Oriental magnificence ; and between that, and employing
cheap labor that isn’t cheap, all N.T. enterprises have
eome to grief The proposed new concern has the
advantage, anyway, of knowing what rocks to avoid.
* * * *
A man up that way sends a note about the Anglo-
Melbourne scheme, promoted by the evergreen Butters,
late H. H. Drysdale, and others :—“ J. S. Butters holds
6000 square miles on the Roper (N.T.)—lOO miles frontage
on both sides. The eastern portion was recently sold to
the Scottish Investment Co., comprising 50 miles on each
side of the river. This co. intends to settle Scotch
families there. The thing is preposterous. The country
is not suitable for any kind of agriculture owing to floods.
The western side is suitable for stock-raising. Should
the scheme be carried out, it can only fail, and add
another to the long black list now stuck on the back-door
of Australia.”
* » * *
At Bynoe Harbor (N.T.), a Chow, naturalised,
cleared £20,000 out of a tin show he got from a nigger for
a smoke. Bynoe Harbor is pegged out for miles by Chows,
and dummied by whites in Palmerston. One man has
about 20 claims, worked by the heathen ; his gains are 10
p.c. on results. A scandalous business, this dummying.
TJp in the Northern Territory Government
Geologist Brown has had a look at what he describes as
“ probably the largest wolfram deposit yet found in Aus-
tralia.” The shoot has been worked down to 30ft., has a
width of 14ft. in places, and a length of 40ft., and is still
underfoot. The shoot Is in a lode which can be traced 14
chains, and wolfram can be found all along it. The matrix
is quartz ; and the metal is mixed with copper and a little
scheelite. Arrangements had been made to send out a
ton a day from this mine, when the wolfram
market slumped, and the owners sat down to
think things over. The demand for the metal is
in so few hands that it is very easy to con-
trol the market so long as producers are not
united ; so they are scattered, and mostly “ tucker-
men,” and there seems no hope of fixing up an under-
standing among them. Probably the real value of
wolfram will never be found out until Australia gets its
own iron and steel works and can make tests for itself.
John Moffatt, the biggest mining man in North Queens-
land, says he has a deposit which could supply the
world’s market at present rate of consumption ; but
while the market can be hacked to pieces, the deposit
isn’t worth touching—which is another excellent reason
for starting to do things for ourselves, and getting our-
selves out of the foreigner’s hands, and making our own
market for our own raw products.
* * * *
Experience of the Waiotahi, Thames, has been
the most sensational in recent Maoriland mining history,
and recalls the time, 20 years ago, when the original pros-
pectors of the Waihi (now among the first dozen gold
mines of the world) vainly hawked the show round in
order to get some help to develop it. Twelve months ago
the Waiotahi was market-valued at about £2OOO ; to-day
it stands at £210,000. What the mine can really do is,
however, not yet fully proved, but by the end of the year
it ought to be opened up.
* * * *
A name that a whole lot of people would be
glad to forget has turned up again in Australian mining
news ; Alex. Stewart has joined the London board of the
British Broken' Hill. Stewart’s five years’ career in Aus-
tralia was about as sensational as any man’s. He came
out as assistant to General Manager Howell, then on the
point of retiring from the Broken Hill Prop. ; in a few
months he followed him as General Manager, and was the
most unapproachable chief the B.H. Prop, ever had. He
was a Scotchman with mining experience gained chiefly
in Spain, and had a passion for method. It used to be
said that, when a man wanted to sneeze he had to fill in
Form 5371 Z, and lodge it at the office. His idiosyncrasies
made him the best-advertised mining man in Australia;
and when the old Chillagoe people had a boom to work up
they rqped in Stewart as manager. The public fell
in wholesale- They had had doubts about Chillagoe;
but doubts disappeared when an ultra-cautious man like
Stewart was willing to throw up the B.H. Prop, to take
the Chillagoe job. They argued that Chillagoe was bigger
than Broken Hill—and as they got in at boom prices, the
old Chillagoe crowd got out. Stewart’s salary was under-
stood to be £lO,OOO a year ; but that was onty mentioned
to “prove” how vast a thing the. new show was. The
crash soon came ; but Stewart was gone, broken, it was
understood, in health ; and he never returned. There is
very little doubt that, so far as Stewart was concerned,
he had simply made a bad miscalculation of the value
of the mines. George Smith, his lieutenant, and sup-
posed to be one of the very few men in his con-
fidence, was left behind to fight the battle ; and it’s
something in Stewart’s favor that Smith’s confidence in
his ex-Chief was unshaken. Smith, anyhow, made
nothing out of the fiasco, and, completely knocked out,
crept into a comparatively poor but unexciting billet as
an inspector of mines in N.S.W. ; while Stewart, who had
been used—probably without his knowledge—as the
decoy duck in the most disastrous mining fiasco Australia
has had, set up in a quiet way in England as a consulting
engineer.
* * * *
Ex-Sydney shop assistant Merton, who made a
pot out of Merton’s Reward (W.A.), and then beat cute
London mining financiers in a deal for the sale of the
property, is now in Egypt, where he is leading a party in
the interests of Egyptian Options, Ltd., a rather swagger
Bull flotation.
* * * *
One of Sydney’s very big soft-goods houses has
just handed over its affairs to its creditors to wrestle
with—the biggest contract of the sort York-street has
had for years.
*». * *
Anxious : Know no mining shares answering
requirements. Better not look towards that market at
all D.M. : Such correspondence always welcome,
though not usual to acknowledge it Hoodlum; That
office is sound and well-conducted ; though, as expenses
are high and interest earnings only moderate, bonuses
are not big. Of those specified, the A.M.P., National
Mutual, or Citizens’:.. .G.L. (Akitio): The co. is not
floated, so no office is yet established.. ..P.J.S.: (1) No ;
contrib. shares are always loaded; they are never “ just
as good” as the others. (2) Tin is dangerous Elvir;
All right if you care to face a liability of £4 10s. a share.
.. . .Ulverstone : Present price Queensland S.L. shares is
about £65. There are a few shares in Australia; but
mostly it is J. Bull’s money. Capital is understood to be
£700,000, partly paid, partly underwritten.... Spec. :
Pure gamble. Even if the Broken Hill lode extends right
through to the Pinnacles, it may be a mere thread in
places, or its metal contents may be about nil. Note how
the silver fades away from Block 11 (of B.H. Prop.) and
Block 10 (where the sulphides average nearly 16oz) to 3oz.
in South Blocks M.W. : Its annual report and balance-
sheet should be available within a fortnight; wait for
that Pecunia : For that purpose National Mutual,
A.M.P., and either M.L.A. or the City Mutual—latter
because it will give the highest annuity.
* * * *
Latest London float is the Loch Mines, Ltd.,
in 450,000 2s. shares, to take over a basketful of proved
wild-cats—the Lady Loch, the Forrest King, Forrest
King North, a 20-stamp battery, and 463,188 shares
in the Jacoletti Gold Mines, Ltd. It’s a lot to
get for the money ; and, anyhow, the 20 stamps
should be worth something. Nearly every one of
the concerns now included in this marvellous collection
has done a lot of damage to the public hitherto ; and it
will be the public’s own fault if the basketful is given the
chance of doing it any further damage.
“ J.Y.” voices a real grievance :
Three years ago I had a good appointment in Maori*
land. I embezzled, and found myself in the dock listen-
ing to “ His Honor ” saying he did not know why I did
such a thing, how sorry he was, and that two years’ hard
labor was the term of my imprisonment. This little
homily of his was quite wasted. If he did not know why
I was there, I did. ' If he was sorry, I was sorrier, and I
had to do the time, anyhow. The next stage was the
gaol, where I hoped the two years would be worked out
without further comment. I was put in a gang with a
“lifer ” (attempted wife poisoning) on one side of me and
a “ ten-year ” man (violent assault) on the other. The
second Friday I was there I was surprised to see four
women come marching down the yard. One of these was
a double-chinned fat old dame in silk, wife of a merchant
who failed for about £BOOO, and paid 2s. sd. in the £. (I
got two years for using £74 6s. 9d.) The other three were
under-brained, over-dressed, curiosity hunters, who
gazed intently at the broad arrows on our clothing, and
looked with apparent interest at the heap of stones we
were “ napping.” One of them wished to shake hands
with the wife-poisoner, and they all regarded us like a
menagerie of wild animals. This was the addition to my
sentence, a horror I had to submit to each alternate Fri-
day during my two years—every time a different crowd
of empty-headed, bedecked, befurred, bejewelled, vain-
glorious women, whose idle curiosity brought them to
the gaol to gape at the adversity of fellow human beings.
To these female gazers and tattlers I would say this :
If you could hear what the “ hardened ” criminals say
about you when you have gone, you would shun the gaol
as you would the cholera. If you heard the curses your
presence brings from the lips of the better class prisoner
(if there is a better class), you would never set foot
in a gaol again. The visits of these fussy, officious,
misguided women have raised up a hatred in my heart
against the whole female race. If the Maoriland Minister
~of Justice closed at once and for ever the visiting system
to the gaols (except in the case of relations), he would
take from the prisoners the worst punishment they have
to bear, a punishment that was not included in their
sentence by the Judge.
—
Thus W. D. Johnson, the defeated leader
of the Westralian Labor party :
The Labor party would have to alter its methods. It
was not the caucus and the pledge that were wrong. The
party would have to broaden its views when it had the
responsibilities of managing the State. There were even
greater things than the planks of the Labor platform.
One was the question of finance. The party was drifting
to ruin, and it could only improve its condition by send-
ing men to Parliament who realised the greatness of their
responsibilities, who could rise above the State Labor
platform and grapple with the questions before them.
They wanted quality there—men who were loyal to the
Labor cause and were able to take upon themselves the
responsibility of ruling the destinies of Australia.
Therein Johnson struck the mark. A party may
get along in Opposition without a fiscal policy, but
when it takes charge of the Treasury without any
definite financial principles, it is a bottomless ship
without a rudder.
The electric plant of the Federal Palace Hotel,
corner Collins and King Streets, Melbourne, furnishes a
good example of a thoroughly successful electric installa-
tion, in technical as well as in commercial respects. This
plant generates all electric current required for the hotel
lighting ; it consists of a 20 horse-power gas engine belted
to a “Ganz” 12 kilowatts dynamo, a “Ganz” switch-
board containing all the controlling and measuring instru-
ments, and a storage battery with 62 cells. The generating
machinery runs continually during the day time at its
full capacity and highest efficiency ; the surplus current
being stored into the battery; the latter supplies all
necessary electricity required during the night; the
battery forms also a substantial reserve in case of acci-
dents. Compared with the previous method of working a
saving of £4OO per annum has been effected by this plant.
The contractors for this plant were The Austral Otis
Engineering Company, Ltd., corner Hanah and Kavanaglr
Streets, South Melbourne, as sole agents for Ganz and
Company, Budapest, Hungary.* [3.]
* * * *
Wilfley Ore Concentrating Tables. Important
notice to mine managers and users of Concentrators.
The Supreme Court of Victoria has decided in the action
brought against N. Guthridge Limited that the well-
known Wilfley patent is valid, and has been infringed by
N. Guthridge Limited by the manufacture and sale of
tables which they call the Card Concentrating Table.
The Court granted a certificate of the validity of the
Wilfley patent and ordered N. Guthridge Limited to pay
damages and costs of this action, and granted an
injunction restraining N. Guthridge Limited from in-
fringing the Wilfley patent. This is to give notice
that the Wilfley Ore Concentrator Syndicate Limited will
enfore its rights against all persons buying or selling or
otherwise dealing in or using such infringing Concentrat-
ing machines- Edward J. Rigby, Attorney for the Wilfley
Ore Concentrator Syndicate Limited, care of Austral
Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne.*
* * * »
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
It is of great importance to those interested in
mining- to understand that the judgment in the recent
action oi the Wilfley Co., does not deprive the industry
tt ' e latest development in concentrators.
ineOard concentrates oh an entirely opposite principle
to the Wilfley. In the latter the dressing takes place on
tiie smooth surface at the ends of the diagonal riffles
which !s. claimed by Wilfley as the essence of his invention.
Whilst in the Card the dressing- takes place in the
continuous channels and not on the surface of the table,
hence much greater capacity, higher concentrates and
poorer tailings. The injunction applies merely to two
experimental tops which were never sold by theiicensees,
N. Guthridge Limited, who are continuing the manu-
facture and sale of the Card.*
* * * *,
Financial News (London) of 18th July, 1905
wrote as follows with reference to the last annual report
of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :
In every respect the report of the Colonial Mutual must
be regarded as satisfactory, indicating, as it does, con-
tinued growth and increased prosperity.”*
*** • •
Cobar.— For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
*' ® stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
.The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler lias to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for soriie time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more—alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 2500h.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
are also putting down “ Hornsby” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
* * * IT
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
Send us your address and we will post you a
pamphlet gratis how to purify acetylene gas. Brandt
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney, and Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Charters Towers.— Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
“ P.M.” : Don’t rush out The Bulletin medal
to the Muswellbrook municipal council (N.S.W.) for
establishing a sinking fund to pay ofl its debt (B. 29/9/’O5).
Rockdale is in J. Carruthers’ district, but it thinks so
mighty little of Carruthers’ financial policy that in eight
years it has reduced its debt of £14,000 by £2OOO, and is
now going ahead wiping it out at the rate of £350 a year.


Aboriginalities.
The plaint of “ E.G.” :
“ Snell’s ” par. (28/9/’O5), written in derision and
humorous scorn of the man v'ho “ outed ” a woman,
and protested that “it was done in a fair light,”
reminds me. “Snell ” obviously never had a scrap with
a female, and I want to move his heart to more sympathy
-—with the man. When I was a lad I had a sister some-
what older, stout and muscular —so muscular that more
than once for a joke she put her broad back under a full
2001 b. flour-bag, seized one ear over her shoulder in
orthodox fashion, and humped it up an inclined
plane from dray to store-room. Une day we
fell out over the priority of right to Scott’s
“ Antiquary.” 1 was in temporary possession, and repulsed
her demands. Thereupon she resorted to physical force.
I was punched, and thumped, and walloped, and gener-
ally and continuously handled in such fashion that an
effort to regain my own self-respect had to be made.
Therefore 1 shook myself loose, and sparred for an open-
ing amidst a whirl.ng mass of beefy arms and huge lists.
The opening came, and I shot a straight left on the tip-
tilted end of a nose which yielded like dough to the im-
pact. I have never before, or since, punched so soft and
yielding a nose, nor have I ever, except on t lie face of a sud-
denly awakened somnambulist, seen such a look of helpless
bewilderment as spread over my sister’s countenance.
She had never in all her eighteen years had a punch on
the nose before, you see, and it opened to her a new view
of life and mankind. It also relieved the rush of hlood to
her head which had precipitated the misunderstanding.
“ You wretched coward! ” she said, and collapsed in
tears. “ That’ll teach you,” 1 retorted, and I left, feeling
like “Snell’s” man, that it was done in fair fight, and
I’ve never been able to feel differently since. But when I
picked a wife, she was a little one with no fight in her. I
didn’t want to have to punch her nose. 1 have just read
this to her, and she said 1 was a coward. I asked her
what else I could have done, and she looked volumes of
contempt. That’s her way, and it’s worse than my
sister’s.
* * * *
“ Uclke ” : Ever noticed the way in which
deadly enemies in the feathered tribe will band
together against a common danger ? While
driving through the bush recently I saw a goanna
steadily climbing a tree, keeping in view a
magpie’s nest, which had been built in a branch.
The owners of the nest were keeping up a frantic
attack on the intruder. Presently a number of
soldier birds and a tomtit joined forces with the
magpies. Later a crow, two butcher birds, and a
sparrow hawk swooped down upon the now un-
comfortable “ go.” At the end of the engagement
a one-eyed, miserable “go.” was making a light-
ning calculation as to whether it would be quicker
to jump or to fall to the ground, whilst a butcher
bird was determinedly chasing the tomtit. Three
days afterwards, when re-passing the nest, I
noticed a crow committing a burglary there, and
the only help the screaming magpies got was
from the ever-willing soldier bird. The crow got
an egg.
‘ ‘ Ray X. on camels :
The camel may be mild-eyed, and that is all that can
be said for him in that direction. Speaking generally, he
is the most cantankerous, spiteful, revengeful, smellful
beast on the planet. If he takes a dislike to anyone it is
a fixture, and if anyone treats him badly he is cool and
Calculating in his revenge.
Once we were out prospecting on the Westralian border
with several name's, one of which was a savage bull that
caused us cons.derable delay in loading o’ mornings. One
day Frank lost his temper and banged him over the head
with a pick-handle. That camel thereupon swore an oath
on the Koran to be revenged. Several times he tried to
crush Frank in his sleep, and once he made a bite which
our mate was just able to dodge with the loss of a trouser
leg and the gain of a deep, poisonous scratch which abso-
lutely declined to heal. Two months later, ajter a long
day's journev to make a water hole, the sleeping camp
was suddenly roused by a death shriek which made even
our nigger rouse up enough to mutter, “ White pheller
blurry fool ” before he went to sleep again. We found
Frank as dead as the father of all camel drivers. The animal
had crept up silently and in a business-like way had lain
down on his chest, killing him almost instantly.
Once a bull camel and a cow tumbled over our tent,
barely allowing us to escape with our reputation (we had
little else on, the night being hot). We remonstrated
with pieces of quartz from a distance. The bull got
annoyed and gave chase. I climbed a desert oak and my
companion a large boulder, on the point of which he
stood with his reputation waving in the wind until the
bull saw fit to retire.
Even when the ship of the desert is in a calm, so to
speak, the unspeakable odor of his breath and the way he
rolls his food about in his interior are enough to make
the Sphinx feel sea-sick. Long will I remember their
disgusting presence, when I was flattened out with some
sort of fever out back from Arltunga—how they lay
about the camp, and stank, and turned Monday’s break-
fast on top of Saturdays, and attracted all the flies in the
territory to one grand carnival.
Well, to give the devil or camel—same thing—his due,
he has made the back goldfields habitable after having
mainly enabled us to find them. But he is a mixed
blessing’, and is only really liked by those who gained
their knowledge of him from the pages of Eastern
romance.
* * * *
“The Prooshan” : “Janor” (B. 26/10/’O5),
in commenting on my “panning off” par, shows
that he knows a bit about it, and a close inspec-
tion would doubtless show bis finger-nails worn
to the quick from friction with the subject. It’s
many a year since I washed a dish or “ spat in the
very eye of the gold and sand.” “Janor’’says
“it works well in handling coarse gold.” I quite
agree with him, and, as a matter of habit, always
insisted on having coarse gold to pan at—it is
easier to treat, looks nicer in the dish, and gives
greater satisfaction. “Janor” mustn’t think,
however, that dishing days are done, for many a
poor devil can’t raise a cradle or box, and goes
per force of circumstances with a dish and a bent
hoop-iron scraper. He goes likewise bootless on
the coldest days of winter at the back-aching job,
in old creeks and odd corners, hunting for the few
grains of existence that he just manages to scrape
together. “ Janor” should get on to a “poverty
point ” community proper, and then he’d soon
find that dishing was still alive.
* * * *
“Dave H.R.” : As to the dingo (B.
2/11/’O5). My father, way back in the ’sixties,
while on an out-back station, one day gave a
blackfellow two figs of tobacco to procure him a
wild dingo pup. He trained the animal, and,
when it was about twelve months or so of age, it
was the most faithful canine friend a man could
desire. My father had this dog for some five or
six years, when it died of distemper. I know a
selector near Barraba (N.S.W.) who has a tame
dingo. He will snap at no one, but is very shy,
and invariably flees at the approach of a stranger.
About dingoes barking : there are lots of them in
Culnooey scrub, and at night there is a great
noise there.- I don’t know whether it is George
Reid looking for Socialism or whether it is the
dingoes barking ; but it may be Bruce Smith
cheering for the Japanese.
PUTTING HIMSELF TO THE TEST.
FATHER KELLY : “ Tim. Finnissey, Tim Finnissey, didn’t you
sign the pledge only last Chewsday?"
TIM : “ Whisl, sorr, I'm not drinkin’ it. It’s just tryin’ the
strength o’ me resolution, sorr.”
“Nomad”: Have visited most of the
shearing-sheds in the New England district and
find that none is as up-to-date as those of Southern
Queensland. In the majority of the sheds in the
Northern State will be found a complete station
school of arts. All the latest books, periodicals,
papers, and games are at the disposal of the
shearers and rouseabouts for the small fee of (id.
p.rweek. Every detail is carefully attended to,
even to the appointment of librarian, and the hour
of closing the show (9 p.m. as a rule); and no
gambhng is allowed.
LARGE AND SMALL LOSSES.
DOLEFUL LADY : “ Losht yer (hie) tcrbaccer pouch, did yer, young man ? That's nothin’.
Yesterday I losht (hie) me ’usband. He cleared out by the ’Frisco boat.”
“ Yigilans ” : Amongst the things you see
in the Northern Territory when you are out with-
out a gun is the railway from Port Darwin to
Pine Creek. It runs bi-weekly, and has, on an
average, one European passenger and a couple
of Chows in the 140 miles jdurney. At every
stopping place after you leave the Adelaide River
you see a horde of jabbering Asiatics, but rarely a
white man. To the Adelaide, a distance of 100
miles, you run through a wilderness, where there
are no inhabitants but the lengthsmen. These
used to be Chows also, but the heathen have been
supplanted by Europeans at Bs. a day. Another
illustration is to be found here of what whites can
do in the tropics. The sleepers are steel and the
heat great, yet men have been here for a score of
years and are jolly and fat. The Chows will soon
have the railway on tribute, and run it with a
dragon-shaped engine and a joss on the cow-
catcher for luck.
“Agra”: Go on the
land, young man ! Recently
knew a hard-working farmer
in South Gippsland, who,
after 15 years of terrible toil,
was just getting his head
above water. He was almost
past work by that time, and
dependent on his two sons,
aged respectively 21 and 17.
Both boys caught cold while
cutting scrub. The eldest
died of pneumonia in three
days. The younger one lay
at death’s door for a fort-
night, spitting blood. When
the father was told that he
would get about again, but
would never be of much use
on the farm, he took to his
bed and died within 24 hours.
The widow had to sell the
farm for a song. Her two
eldest daughters are now
domestic servants. In an-
other instance, in the same
district, a farmer and his
family invested £750 in a
selection. They worked on
it like slaves for 19 years,
spending £2O per acre in
clearing some of it, and were
then glad to sell out for £750.
Yes, why not go on the land,
young man ?
“ F.C.8.” : Travelling
from Colinroobie to The Peak
(a large, round hill) via North
Barellan (N.S.W.), asked a
bushman to direct me. And
he said : ‘ ‘ Take this ’ere road
for about two miles due
north, and when you see my
bally cow with a roan heifer
calf, get away on the gee-off
track, and then you go round
the gravelly track to the east,
round the hill, and when
ye be come to an old well (it’s run dry now),
follow along the come-hither track, and it'll take
you to the hut where the shepherds be,”
“ Parvo ” : I know a lady who had a hen
wanting to “set.” The bird was obliged with a
clutch of eggs, but such was the cussedness of the
fowl that, after a few days, she tired of her quiet
life and decided to leave. A friend advised that
the desire to do her duty to the birth-rate would
return if a dose of spirits were administered, and
the housewife tried it. The truant made back to
the nest while “ under the influence” ; but when
the effect went off, the hen did likewise. The
owner decided that it would be cheaper to lose
the eggs than to keep the fowl in grog, especially
as her drinking capabilities would probably in-
crease as she acquired the taste. There would also
have been the risk of her breaking eggs and
generally raising Cain in trying to defend her
nest against imaginary snakes. It would be
interesting to see, in the poultry-yard of the
future, a number of prospective mother ehoolties
waiting around in the early hours for the bar to
open. Then there would come a time when dealers
would distinguish between “ drunk eggs ” and
“sober eggs”; and the hen with hiccups would
begin to degrade the landscape, and the rooster
with the red nose would come home and break up
the fowl-house. Better leave things alone.
* * *
“ Wood B.” : I agree with “ Nulla ” as to
the danger of a bite from a “ goanner.” I’d almost
as soon be bitten by an adder. One thing which
must be placed to his (the go.’s) credit, however,
is that he can take his grog like a coachman.
Some time ago, three station-hands caught one in
the bar of a wayback pub. One chap opined that
“the poor bloke wanted a drink,” whereat his
goannaship displayed several inches of parched
tongue. They shouted in turn for him, pouring
the chain lightning down his throat. At each
repetition of the dose, an expression of ineffable
joy overspread his bland countenance. They then
let him go, expecting to see him do a serpentine
cakewalk to the nearest tree. Instead, however,
he began to indulge in familiarities with the bar-
maid. The lady was angry, and caught him by
the tail, and banged him thrice against the door-
post, and his drunken career would doubtless have
ended there and then had not one of the men
rescued him. “Poor old chap,” said he, “I’m
afraid he’s done for. Let’s try him with another,
anyhow.” Two more drinks were poured into
him without effect, and a boy commenced to drag
him away for burial when he suddenly revived.
The men were too disgusted with “ the dashed old
humbug” to respond. Just then, the landlord’s
cattle dog put in an appearance, and thego. sprinted
like a flash to a pine tree, about 150 yd. away,
beating the dog by the length of three dogs. All
hands followed to see him negotiate the tree.
They found him reclining on a branch 12ft. up,
and, beyond a rakish tilt of the head and a fatuous
leer, there was nothing to show that he contained
three whiskies, two rums and a long beer,
•* * * *
“ Yarrum ” ; People troubled with cat-
music o’ nights have a remedy at hand in the
common toad-fish. A Maitland lawyer, troubled
with insomnia and neighbors’ cats, took several of
the fish from Lake Macquarie, and used them
with such effect that there was a dearth of pussy
in his neighborhood for many years after. A
cocky, living at the lake, lost a fine lot of ducks,
which gobbled toad-fish left on the shore by
prawn-netters. I believe the toad-fish would kill
a herd of elephants—fish-eating elephants.
THE AUSTRALIAN BARD.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Talk not to me of bards of old,
Whose fame through ages long hath rolled ;
Enshrine them not in bronze or gold,
Or foreign stone ;
They rest well in their mother mould—
Leave them alone 1
Come, fill a glass in kind regard
To one whose life is dimly starred—
The hall-marked true Australian bard
Who gaily sings,
With little hope for just reward,
Australian things.
He tells us in a ringing tune
The charms beneath the sun and moon,
The sombre bush where spirits croon
At eerie hours,
And e’en a prosy dull lagoon
Awakes his powers.
But stop and drop your swag a spell,
No doubt you started off quite well,
No doubt your patriotic yell
Will encored be.
Australian bards should sing like h ,
Both gay and free.
I mind it well when first I tried
To climb Parnassus’ sirubby side,
My knowing friends with vigor cried
And jeering spite,
“ Well, by my faith, that bloke has hide —
Thinks he can write.”
Long coils of rhyme I nightly wrote,
I sang the true Australian n >te.
On Nature’s pictures I would dote
By midnight oil,
And thought the day was not remote
To quit hard toil.
I thought that editors would print
The sterling verses from my mint,
And praise and payment without stint
I would command.
For when great we did on them squint,
Said “ Man, they’re grand.
“ The Austral note is ringing true.
The downy wattle’s saffron hue,
With gum trees wild, and skies of blue,
Rare wreaths you twine ;
And We can sniff the kangaroo
In every line.
“ The wombat, 'possum, native bear,
Your song of praise do rightly share.
The lyre-bird in his sylvan lair
Your fame will tell.
The mopoke by your name will swear,
And dingoes yell.”
Life doth not hold sufficient days
To here record the words of praise
That I got for my staving lays.
Their sentiment
Did win a whole cartload of bays—
But not a cent.
Tho’ I in Fame’s bright glare did shine,
They did not pay me for a line,
That I for once might fitly dine
As I’ve desired,
Or patch those dungarees of mine
Where most required.
The Inky Way for bards is rough,
The meat they gain is small and tough,
And ragged almost to the buff
They run their race,
While hackneyed cheap imported stuff
Fills printers’ space.
vie.
W.H.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
JOSE
Tft
1
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
WE HAVE THE BEST MEM
and LATEST MACHJNERT
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box S5B. Telephone 2075.


“ Paul Cupid ” : Among a recent batch of
“deaths ” I saw the name of a man who did as
mean a trick as I’ve ever known to be played on a
laborer. A sailor deserted his ship, and got
employment from this person at 12s. a week.
After being there three months he wanted to see
at least some of his wages, but was put off with an
excuse. He was husking corn one day when a
policeman chanced to come round collecting
statistics. The employer saw his chance, hurriedly
gave the sailor some bread and meat and advice,
told him the policeman had come for him, and
generously offered to keep the officer in conversa-
tion while the alarmed sailor decamped. That
mployer attended church regularly, and died in
the odor of sanctity.
A GOOD ALL-ROUND ARTICLE.
Some remarks made at the last meeting of the Newtown
Council by an alderman who claimed from a long trade
experience to know a good deal about the matter, are
calculated to cause some public alarm. According to
him some of the morning coffee consists largely of burnt
corn, the jam which delighted the younger members of
the family was not always composed of wholesome fruit,
the piquant sauces so admired as adjuncts to cold mutton
or corned beef are made from injurious compounds, and
what is sold as pure malt vinegar, is sometimes only a
chemical concoction. These were only a few of the
articles upon which the speaker furnished startling in-
formation as to their component parts.— Sydney paper.
“ Well , sir, I don’t think you could do better
than take ’alf a pound of our Reliability
Brand. It does equally well for soap or for
butter."
“Helter-Skelter” : The appointment by
the Education Department (Vic.) of a supervisor
to inspect and report on the housing of its female
bush teachers is in no way premature. Recently,
on arriving at a backblocks spot in 8. Gippsland to
take charge of the local school, a teacher (female)
was directed to the only available boarding-house,
her predecessor (a male) having batched in the
school liumpy. After resting in a room which
served as a kitchen, dining-room, parlor and draw-
ing-room all in one, she asked to be shown her
bedroom, and was escorted to an apartment
entered only from the “ drawing-room ” and by a
doorless aperture. On the teacher remarking the
absence of a door, the landlady reassuringly in-
formed her, “ Oh, you’ll be all right; no one will
hurt you.” But the idea of seven, or eight gaping
youths having a full view of her boudoir didn’t
appeal to her, and she curtained off the place
where the door ought to have been with some
material which she fortunately had in her trunk.
The camp allotted her had a “ natural carpet,” and
a bush-made wooden bed, whilst an empty case
and a tin dish did se vi< e as a wash-stand.
“Ed.”: Yarra-
wonga (Vic.) has its
crop of oddities. It
has a toothless bell-
man with a profound
respect for his bosses.
His announcements
always are “Mr. Bid
and Mr. Hammer
and Co.” will sell by
auction, etc. Having
no teeth, the locals
seldom understand
him, but they know
when they hear his
howl and bell that a
sale is to be held.
On the banks of the
Murray, many of the
hollow trees are oc-
cupied by old fellows
who have lived in
them for years.
One enterprising
old mariner sports
two tents and a
boat rigged with
paddles. One tent
is on land ; this is
his dining and sit-
ting room. The
other tent is rigged
on his boat; there
he sleeps. When
in want of change
of air and scenery,
he packs up and
paddles to fresh '
fields. Most of
these old chaps are
old age pensioners,
and supplement
their dole with fish
from the river.
One skittish an-
cient has taken to
a tree. He lives
in a hut built on a
Elatforin in the
ranches, and
reaches his airy
domicile by means
of a ladder, which he
PRECISE.
PETER: “ Where yer goin’, Bill ?"
BILL: “I ain’t goin’ nowhere. I been where I’m
goin'.”
pulls up after him. In
the middle of the town is a large,
black-edged notice board, to announce funerals
on the days when the local enlightener is not
published.
* * * *
“ Alba ” : I have put in a number of years
studying common fleas. A mill owner in N.
Queensland showed me a particular specimen cap-
tured in a bunk occupied by a sick Kanaka. It
was dull red in color, with a black spot in the
middle of its back. Viewed through a microscope
it made one shiver and swear off sugar. Its body
was as stiff as a battleship ; it had the hind claws
of a devil fish ; and its eyes shone like scraps of
molten fire. The black spot on its back became
inflated like a camel’s hump when it drew nourish-
ment from its host. A keeper, employed in a cir-
cus, introduced me to a lion-flea once. Under a
glass it became a baleful horror capable of alarm-
ing a rhinoceros. Menagerie owners speak enthusi-
astically of the lion-flea ; it has to rise early and
bite hard to extract nourishment from the lion’s
shin bone. The Australian cow-flea is not a back
number. Have gone among a mob of milkers
wearing white pants, and in nine seconds have
been speckled from heel to waist by the ferocious
parasites. A Sydney Hebrew says that the pawn-
shop insect is a match for anything that jumps.
Being deprived of its lawful refreshment, while in
pawn, it becomes a very earnest insect. He is
willing to back the stranded portmanteau and old
overcoat flea against any lion or tiger nipper the
Zoo can produce. I will put up a theatre flea to
stiffen both in seven seconds—the one that bounds
over the peanut man the moment the music starts.
* * * *
“ Nym.” : The Fisheries Act is a dead
letter as far as Vic. is concerned, especially round
the Big Trickle waterways. The vandal anglers
are, in some cases, prominent men in the so-called
local Game Protection Societies, yet are the first to
break the law on the sly. Until we have a rod
and gun license, the fees of which go to sub-
sidise paid inspectors, the Game Act, either
for fish or fowl, will be little better than a.farce.
Even now a nice little technicality would arise if
a zealous assistant-inspector brought a charge
against an angler caught (say on the Campaspe)
with a cod in his possession out of season. The
trout becomes awfully like the cod, especially in
waters liable to the sludge curse, after a season or
two. People may fish for trout with impunity (and
worms) while the close season is on for cod, perch,
and native fish generally. Who would dare swear
a cod was a trout, or vice versa ?
* * * *
“ Roma,” from Gippsland :
If it were not for way-backers, patent-medicine vendors
would have to shut up shop. Everything- that is recom-
mended in the newspapers is tried for all sorts of imagi-
nary complaints. If a neighbor takes ill, the nearest Mrs.
Cocky sends all her remedies to experiment on the
sufferer—sometimes with disastrous results.
One woman up this way (S. Gipps., Vic.) got a cure
for sandy blight 15 years ago, when the small cockyites
were afflicted. One bottle was not used, so was carefully
kept till wanted. Last week a neighbor was discovered
to have something growing over the eye. The sandy-
blight cure was promptly forthcoming as an infallible
remedy for cataract, cross-eyes, wall-eyes, ophthalmia,
granulation, or blindness. What the result will be
remains to be seen, but at present things are only
middling.
Another case happened way back amongst the moun-
tains where doctors are rare. A cocky’s 18-year-old
daughter took ill one night, and all sorts of household
remedies were used without avail. At length all the
neighbors for miles around were sent to, and they
promptly responded to the call, in person, with their
medicine chests in their aprons. By the time Miss Cocky
had about 10 gossiping neighbors around her, and had
tried all their remedies, she was forced to admit the true
state of affairs, which she had up till then concealed.
When the kookaburras were announcing the arrival of
dawn, 10 disgusted she-cockies were trudging homeward
over the mountains to start milking, all bewailing the
loss of a night’s sleep and innumerable bottles of patent
me heinev— all for.a hussy with an infant.
“ Werrimee” : One clay, while out shooting
near Casino (N.S.W.), I came across an old
gin standing at the butt of a gum tree,
holding a piece of bark about a foot square
in her hands, while several dogs sat on
their haunches star-gazing beside her. Her
other half, glistening in the altogether, was
100 ft. up the tree, extracting honey from a hole he
had cut in the side of a limb. As he dropped the
comb, piece by piece, the gin (when not interfered
with) caught it dexterously on the sheet of bark,
and passed it to the billy-cans. The dogs, how-
ever, gave her a lot of trouble. One or two would
yelp and spring at the descending comb, some-
times catching it (and smashing it), but mostly
sending it and the bark and the gin spinning in
three different directions. Then would follow a
whirlwind of sticks, bedraggled skirts, unkempt
hair and vituperation, mingled with a deep
baritone snort of disgust from aloft. The storm
moderating, her long, thin fingers and the billy-
lid went to the rescue of the depreciated segments
of “sugar-bag.” Murri and his wife practise the
good doctrine, waste not and thou slialt want less.
The young bees and bee-bread are eaten ; at times
honey, comb, bees, and bee-bread are chopped
up together, and a feast made of the conglomera-
tion. About those Richmond River towns, Mr.
and Mrs. Blackfellow often earn an honest penny
by bringing in wild honey for the whites. This is
generally bought in the comb; but, unless par-
ticularly stipulated, the comb and other ingredients
are retained by the blacks. Strained honey from
this source, however, is a doubtful luxury, as
it is just as likely to be strained through the
tail of old Maggie’s frock as through anything
else. The blacks are very fond of native bee
honey, of which there are two kinds on the
Northern rivers, known in the locality as boo-
yan and cubbi. They frequently made this
into toffee by simply boiling until it coagulated,
and old men as well as piccaninnies derived much
pleasure from sucking the lolly-sticks. Probably,
in the course of time, had they been unmolested,
a creditable confectionery business would have
been developed among them.
» » * *
“ Moide ” : Heartfelt thankfulness is ex-
pressed by bushwomen at X. (Gfippsland, Vic.)
over the departure of the late teacher. I am re-
lated to her successor, and am spending my vaca-
tion with her. Many and varied are the delin-
quencies of the former ped. In awestruck
whispers they tell me : “ Why, Miss, what would
you think of ’er ? She were that balmy she useter
sleep all night with ’er window ’igh up, and the
cold wind blowin’ in on ’er,” Then comes the re-
lation of the “last straw.” “One mornin’, Miss,
we foller’d’er to see what she did in the gully
before brekfust; and there she were, Miss, with
’er arms outstretched ’oldin’ up ’er ’ead and
whiffin’ loud and long through ’er nose. Oh, she
wuz quite orf ’er ’ead, and we wasn’t on fer board-
in’ ’er any longer. No one else wanted ’er, so she
’ad to go.” We camp in a lean-to at the back of
the school, and carefully conceal the fact that we
are “ tarred with the same brush” by adjusting
the window when the cockies are in Snoreland,
and what time the mopolce calls to his mate we
indulge the “deep breathing” cult.
“ 5.P.8.” : The bush liar walked up with
a jaunty air. The boss surveyed him critically and
he looked hard at the boss. “Any chance of a
job, boss ?” he said abruptly. “ Can you milk ? ’
said the boss, casting a furtive glance at his white
hands. “ Milk ! ” said the stranger, “why I
reckon I orter be able t'r seein’ as I put in 14 years
oil one dairy farm.” “Humph” said the boss.
Then he reflected, after which he asked: “ Can
you butcher?” “Butcher!” said the traveller dis-
dainfully. “That’s my trade; served seven years
at it.” The boss said “Ah !” and did a think.
“Do you know anything about breaking in
horses?” he inquired. The bush liar indulged in
a fit of boisterous merriment. “Lor bless yr
heart, boss,” he said, “I’ll never forget the six
years I put in on Werribee Park breaking in, and
they were wild ’uns too, I tell y’r.” A humorous
twinkle danced in the boss’s eyes. “I suppose
you can drive bullocks?” he said. “Drive any
blamed thing that ever was hooked to the bars.
Bless me soul, a man oughter learn something
after four years experience.” The boss reflected
at great length. “How old are you?” he said
abruptly. “ I’m j ust twenty-seven, ” said the bush
liar, “and nary a tap of work have I done this four
years,” and he heaved a sigh as he spoke. The
boss looked sad. “I don’t think I have anything
for you just at present” he said, “but I noticed
an advertisement in the Coretong Courier for a
compositor; perhaps you ” “Compositor!” the
other interrupted, “why that’ll just suit me. I put
in five years at ” But the boss suddenly gave a
sort of strangled yelp and rushed at the bush liar,
and the bush liar ran as if running had been his
sole occupation for 40 years.
* • • *
‘ ‘ Orthos ” : Travelling west of the Darling
River, where ex-Minister Crick discovered the
youthful genius making nitrogen and oxygen gases
with apparatus made all on his own out of pickle
bottles, jam tins, etc., I came upon a bevy of bare-
footed urchins at work on a mud bank. Thinking
they were making mud pies, I called out “How
is it you are not at school?” “ This is school,
mister,” they answered. “ It’s too blooming hot
to work indoors the master says, as the stuff
bakes, and you can’t work it up proper.” A
faint idea of the new syllabus dawned on me.
Discovered the dominie arrayed in mosquito net,
surrounded with piles of official correspondence.
“The new syllabus,” he mused, repeating my
question. “ Oh, it’s all right. I was a bit afraid
of it at first, but I’ve mastered it. lam supposed
to teach modelling in plasticene once a week,
but my nippers demand it every day, and they
get it. Just look here. This is a bit of work
they presented to me on my birthday ” ; and he
pointed with pride to a life-sized figure of himself
in Darling mud, and about as much like him as a
Myall black. “ The open air is good for their
health, and between times I give them a lesson
in pruning mulga scrub.” I rode off with my
temperature anything over 150 deg. in the shade.
HARD KNOX.
EDITOR: “ I tell you most distinctly that your
letters shall not appear in the paper —perhaps
THAT'S plain enough for you ? ”
MCPHAIL : “ And as a predestinatet Presbyterian
I tell you that you've naethin ’ whatever to do
wi’ it; that the Almighty Himsel ordainit
what should and' what shouldn't be printet in
your meeserable paper before you were born,
and before the world comrnencet.”
In S. Australia proper there are now
among aborigines three-and-a-half times more
deaths than births ; but of those who carry the
sign of the cross, though born in blades’ camps,
there are three times more births than deaths.
Five half-castes are born to every four pure-
blooded little black brother Bills.
* * » *
“Freelance” : Recently a Mudgee(N.S.W.)
district school teacher gave a new syllabus “ nature
study ”on ants to his pupils. A few days later he
asked them to procure certain books, and this is
how he had the breath knocked out of him by an
irate mother :
Deer Sur, I aint goin to by no moar bukes. i av olready
spent one shillin and 9 pence on my three childen duren
the larst too yeers. If you tort them to reed an rite
insted of ehasen hants it wood be mutch better.
“CAVEAT EMPTOR."
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hicks sent his horse for sale, you see—
An old flea-bitten grey—
And, in a written guarantee,
In black and white did say
That said grey horse had done a mile
In forty-two and splendid style.
The grey was ridden round the yard,
But not a bid was made.
Perhaps the times were passing hard ;
Perhaps they were afraid
To ride an equine marvel who
Had done a mile in forty-two.
Then Coogan showed to Hicks a mare
Whose points he said he knew.
’Twas she, he was prepared to swear,
That single-handed drew
A boiler up the steep incline
That led to the ’Goanna Mine.
He said he would not be debarred
From any friendly deal,
If only for the high regard
Which he for Hicks did feel.
Nor would he let the value stop
A just and even-handed swop.
The deal was made ; Hicks took the mare,
And Coogan took the grey,
But, Lord ! the way that Hicks did swear
The next succeeding day !
An 1 Coogan’s comprehensive curse,
If possible, was even worse.
He wished Hicks might in Tophet bake
For his consummate guile
In saying that the grey could make
That record for a mile.
“ Old man,” said Hicks, “ your wrath is vain,
That mile was travelled in a train.
“ And what,” continued Hicks, “about
The boiler and the mine ?
Your blessed cuddy couldn’t rout
A melon from a vine ! ”
Said Coogan : “ ’Twas the truth, my son;
The boiler was a kitchen one.”
N.F.W.
JASON.
WOLFE’S Schnapps
MEANS BUSINESS WHEN IT TACKLES
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES!
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used ; has 100 different
uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
Eleven
Reasons
Why «e sell
so many Rings.
'i'x and R ,:
Diamond
Half-Hoop
Ring,
A Marvel
of Value,
£5 ss.
Pink Tourmaline
and Golden Sapphire,
and 2 Diamonds,
£5 ss.
Fine Diamonds
and Whole Pearl,
£l3 13s.
Special
Diamonds,
Our Own
1. We are the actual makers.
2. We make them in our own workshops.
3. We buy the gems in the rough.
4. We cut the gems.
5. We save all intermediate profits.
6. We are ring-setters.
7. We make only 18ct. gold gem rings.
8. We are gem experts.
9. We carry a large stock of unset stones.
10. We receive them direct from the mines.
11. We sell at London Prices.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,


Defence
l^bitief*
To defence
bur" Will «nde<WoiJr "fo
one durinr, recess
-* D^ly
\{\xr\n\eA 'fcT' l>loon7
An 9&*%r
in one Static. s c h°°ls - 1
s. |>erjon
tjcf be
I'e^isfef'ed
>T5e {A rnr » er sacrifices to -finish his sons'
education it U K g«- bovdir?j> schools, gets 11J«m
v/rtt) * 'for j?r<\cficaj worfC."
Vic: M r . - lltjou^t
t ny educiffon 'to T?e
\ strictly Sec 'lhf J eh J
Wow looK lively, ijjen.s Itjem 31 Cowj to rr>ilK befor« fe*
' txyou
Over 2o J>ri/a(le
members'Bills
Smoldered in
Vie Assembly,
fo
recess.
-; :.v V','-'' '■ V";
CWus'.— " Why lie wonH
•even hkrj i*s J
130 trjen, dvipl\qo wages, We W»r
' dischve from tfje. Sunshine HW'esfei'
WorKs. follftntt -
Ti<%r bw!:
(prfczt'tji rfpr
pestle)
Ho’ \n
Visiter "Apd wljo is 'ffrs ch*f ?"
Friend : "DonT yo« K»r«w ?' —
nevly r«de to tjinj otjcc j
*.- r .
SOME SCATTERED REFLECTIONS.


THE POLITICAL "THUNDERBOLT.”
Bushranger: "Look here, the right of the minority to block progress must be respected. I’m the minority. Any attempt
to ride over me will be an outrage on Liberty."


PERSONAL ITEMS.
A notable figure at a recent Melbourne
garden party was Prime Minister Deakin’s
mother, aged 83 years.
Obit. At Narrandera, N.S. Wales, on
October 31, journalist George Jarman in his 83rd
year. He had lived in Australia since 1855.
Seems that W. N. Willis won’t be back to
N.S. Wales as a Xmas box—if he ever gets back
at all. The Government isn’t worrying over the
delay in his return.
“Larry” Harnett, N.S.W. Sergeant-at-
Arms, who has just lost a slice of his salary, has
spent thirty-one years in the Sergeant’s chair at
the end of the Legislative chamber.
Vic. Premier Bent has a fine past before
him, and he is proud of it. At Kilmore the other
day he boasted in a loud voice—“ Fifty years ago
I took first prize for radishes. I was only beaten
in leeks by one man.”
John Plummer, hero of a thousand Free-
trade fallacies, now figures in the N.S. Wales
press as an earnest champion of Australian
industry against the Yankee Harvester Trust.
It’s never too late to mend.
J. W. Walshe, fed, liquored and testi-
monialized in Sydney and suburbs, makes back to
the United Kingdom after nearly a quarter of a
century’s exile. He was imprisoned with Parnell
for conspiracy in 1880.
One Patrick Collins thus addressed
Ballarat Land Board in support of his application
for 10 acres : “I have 18 children—nine sons and
nme daughters—and I’ve not done yet.”
The application of P. Collins was granted. And
if The Bulletin were a land board, it would also
grant Mrs. P. Collins 100 acres and a feeding-
bottle. 8
Current allusions to Chief Justice Parley's
relationship with the Guinness people, of Dublin
brewery fame, recall the fact that the Guinness
who founded the stout business proudly claimed
descent from a fire-eater named Magennis. No
one looking at the N.S.W. Chief Justice would
suspect him of being related to a person named
Magennis.
A Goulburn (N.S.W.) family is putting up
a record in sudden death. An aunt died when
returning from a funeral; then a brother expired
while lighting a fire; another brother dropped
dead while digging in the garden; a third
brother passed out suddenly when addressing a
political meeting, and a sister was last week found
in a dying condition in her kitchen.
“ IF.”
We could take action about the tariff if both parties
were agreeable.—DENRLS.
DEAKIN: "I’ll g[?] you such a hit in the tariff
directly” (a pause) "if you're a[?]reeable.”
Christopher Newton, stepfather of Mrs.
Dailey, who gave evidence last week in the Dailey
divorce ease, is the second son of the once head of
the large Sydney firm, Christopher Newton,
Bros., and Co. C. Newton, senior, began business
in the middle of last century in a small right-of-
way in Pitt-street, about where Farmer and Co.’s
stands now, but at his death he was renting large
premises lower down, for which he paid Ebenezer
Vickery a yearly rental of £3500. Once the old
man, through no fault of his own, was compelled
to compromise, but years after he met every
penny of his indebtedness. After his death, iii
the ’eighties, the business went to pieces, it being
alleged that heavy investments in the once famous
Sunny Corner silver mine brought about the
downfall.
One dreadful feature of Thomas Bent is
his bull-headed persistence with a joke. Once a
remark of his has been laughed at it becomes a
stock item, and he skull-drags it into every subse-
quent oration with abominable iteration. For
instance, he once said that if boom food were
given to babies they would grow as big as himself
m three days. Thoughtless people laughed,
whereupon Tommy docketed it for future use,
and now he hauls that commonplace sentiment
into every speech. If he were called upon to
read a funeral oration over a dead celebrity he
would assuredly say that if the deceased’s tomb-
stone ate boom food it would become a much
bigger tombstone than it is. People always
laugh, because the wheeze is sprung on them
■suddenly in the middle of grave remarks, is
absolutely uncalled for, is pertinent to nothing, and
is just flung out because Bent has recollected it,
and is afraid to postpone it lest he should forget
and be unable to sleep with the undelivered joke
lying heavy on his chest.
The S.M. Herald, in a recent article
entitled “Behind the Scenes in Parliament,” told
how N.S.W. Postmaster-General Daniel Egan
once, in the Pittvvater district, bailed up with a
gun the driver of a provision cart, and robbed
him, Egan was camping out with some friends
and food had run short. Eater on the driver of
the cart, a local settler, waited with some others
on the rowdy old thief to ask for better postal
accommodation, and Egan didn’t see how, in the
public interest, it could be granted. But when
that settler privately informed Egan that he
recognised him, the bushranging Minister threw
the public interests overboard in return for
secrecy. These were the good old days that the
lory party looks back on with deep regret—the
spacious days vvlien there was no Labor party,
and when a Minister could be a silly yahoo flourish-
ing weapons and stealing property on the public
highway, and giving concessions out of the public
revenue to hush the matter up.
A correspondent on how Bench came to
be mixed with Beer:—
Apropos Iveagh and Darley (B. 16/11705). The connec-
tion between the recently created Viscountand the newlv.
made P.C. is this : —ln the latter part of the 18th century
Frederick Darley married Elizabeth, sister of Arthur
(.runness, the Dublin porter brewer, and had, among
other children, Henry, whose name will be found amongst
the attorneys of Dublin, and who held office as one of the
in Chancery. This Henry married a Miss West,
and had sons and daughters, the eldest being the Chief
Justice of N.S.W. Iveagh is the grandson of this Arthur
P ,, ' n »ess- Frederick Darley was High Sheriff of Dublin
in W™, a year when the Sheriff’s duties were mainly car-
ried out at the nearest lamp-post. In 1808-9 he was Lord
Mayor, and subsequently became Chief Police Magistrate
of the city, and for 40 years—for life, in fact—he was an
alderman of what Daniel O’Connell called the “Rotten
Corporation,” which was wiped out in 1841.
About Henry :
Henry Butler, Melbourne’s Tory rag-seller, whom the
Argus quotes with emphasis on every possible occasion
was quite rude last week. Henry the Great went to
Mornington to eat and drink and say things at the Royal
Yacht Clubs dinner. He voyaged on the s.s. Flinders
owned by his friends MTlwraith & Co. The vessel was
light, and went to Mornington with what an amateur
might thmk a sickening list. The skipper, mindful of the
fact that another skipper had recently shorn off the end
of the pier, refused to go alongside. Henry and his
mends were sent ashore in a boat. There was' a big sea
running. The oarsmen, all amateurs, succeeded in snap-
ping one oar before they were 50yd. from the ship,
-then the boat broached to and the water came aboard
and Henry got wet and was half dead. At the dinner
Henry said fearful things about the condition of the
boat and the company which owned it. The
Argus faithfully reported all that Henry had said in
his excitement, with the salt still in his hai'r. But next
day the shipping companies fell from a considerable
height on Butler and the Argus. A column of denials
and explanations was published, but, all the same libel
proceedings are rumored, and Henry (who is dry now) is
told that dog should not eat dog.
Apropos that Chief Director of Agriculture
(B. 16/11/05). Amongst the officials sent
out in the first jleefc was a Superintendent
of Agriculture, one Nicholas Devine.
Ihere was no agriculture to be superin-
tended, and “ Rick ” was put to more use-
ful work than overlooking nothing ; he
was made an overseer of convicts.
Devine was a County Cavan man, and
for his services had a grant of land, about
100 acres, at what is now known as Mac-
donaldtown. He died there in 1830 at the
great age of 104 years. After his death a
servant named Rochford produced a will
"w hich left him the whole of the Devine
property. He promptly sold it and dis-
appeared. Some time after, Devine’s
relatives in Ireland heard of the transac-
tion and sent out an emissary to make
inquiries. The result was a law suit of
long-drawn-out proportions against the
holders of allotments who had built valu-
able houses thereon. After much expen-
sive legislation—the whole N.S. Wales
Bar (what there was of it) being engaged
—a compromise was effected.
Australia, in compensation for the
loss of its Danyell O’Connor to America,
is getting as an exchange visitor William
Jennings Bryan—a gentleman who is also
m the perfervid oratory line of business.
Bryan will be remembered as the man
who ran a serious election on the bi-
metallism insanity, and who, on the
occasion of his first nomination, was
carried round the hall by a crowd of
frenzied partisans till his braces gave way.
Anglican Bishop Clarke, of Melbourne,
having been promoted to be an Archbishop, makes
the second Archbishop of that city, the other
being R.C. prelate Carr. Dr. Carr, who was for
so long the only Archbishop, states now that he
objects to being called “R.C. Archbishop.” He
insists that he must be “ the Archbishop” ; letters
otherwise addressed he will take no notice of, even
if he has reason to suspect that there are’large
cheques in them.
Juliau Salomons is more or less resting
after his busy and brilliant N.S.W. Bar career, and
J. H. Want, as this is written, lies terribly ill
Add Wise, absent in England, and three “ top-
notchers ” are out of the running. The work goes
to the remaining “ silks’’—Pilcher, Gordon, R?M.
Sly, Reid, and Wade. There are rumors of other
aspirants for silk. Adrian Knox and Danger
Owen on the Equity “side,” and Wilfred Blacket
Garland, Shand, and Ralston, on the Common
Law “side,” are, it is said, about to apply for the
silk gown. Salomons is one of the few men in the
profession who, having accepted high judicial
onice, have afterwards returned to practice.
Another who had this experience was Martin, of
Maonland. Both rose to large practices on their
return from the Bench.
From the press gallery :
There are two political cranks in the Reps.-Joe
Cook and Conroy. Cook is a sneering-, whining sort of
person, who conceals his violence under an affectation of
polish and courtesy. When this affectation is brushed
aside the real tigerish instinct of the politician is
seen behind, snarling* and licking* its chops, with
glaring eyes and bristling whiskers. That was
what stood revealed in the House last week when the
Deputv-Speaker was forced to name Joe Cook. Beside
himself with passion, Cook shouted in tones that echoed
high above the turmoil and hubbub of the Chamber-
‘ Name me ! Name me ! Name away ! ” His friends
calmed him down ; but some day they won’t, and that day
Cook will eat the Speaker or Isaacs or Bigjohn Forrest or
BiH Lyne. Conroy’s frenzy is more apparent than
Joe Cooks, and he is at first glance a political hooligan.
.There is no polish about Conroy—no mock courtesy.
A prosy, stodgy speaker as a ruie, no one ever knows
when he is going to suddenly hurl some scathing gibe or
insult at some innocent member who happens to
meet his eye. Bast week in the House, the sight of
Dr. Oulpin disposing himself to sleep lashed Conroy into
ungovernable fury. His uproar made the windows trem-
bie and members shrink away from him. There are only
two men in the House who can stop Conroy when he
gets like that. One is Joe Cook—from a fellow feeliri'"-
doubtless—and the other is Pumpkin Smith. Conroy is
really fond of Pumpkin-a further proof of an ill-regulated
mind. Both Cook and Smith pulled Conroy down and
reduced him to sanity. Conroy will seize the mace one
Chamber 1 Speaker ’ and run amoli through the
MATE, INDEED.
THE KID: “Got’nee ciyarctte cards, MATE?”
A proposal to give Henniker Heaton a
public dinner finds favor in one or two quarters,
cind ii lot of disfavor in others. On a previous
visit to Sydney the same suggestion was sent
round, but was coldly received. However, there
was a little meal in Parliament House, and Hen-
mker happened to be there along with a small
mob of other people, and cables flashed the intelli-
gence to London Times that N.S.W. Parliament
had entertained the great Henniker at a public
dinner. Parliament hadn’t entertained Henniker
but that made no difference.
In reply to a correspondent’s demand for
further particulars The Bulletin’s oldest inhabi-
tant writes
The first Anthony Hordern established himself in King-
street East (Sydney) in 1823. He went to Melbourne in
the late thirties and bought original town lots which
became very valuable and which were sold in 1872 pursuant
to his will. • '
The second Anthony, in partnership with a brother
opened on Brickfield Hill, between Goulburn and
Liverpool-streets. The new building now covers the
spot ; they dissolved in 1853, Anthony going to the Hay-
market, the shop recently occupied by the Hordern
grocery. Anthony No. 2 died in 1877.
Anthony No. 3, partner with Samuel Hordern, died in
1886 on the coast of YVestralia.
. Anthony No. 4is now living. I believe each Anthony
is the eldest son of his father. I cannot find that
Anthony Hordern” at any time was on the site now
occupied by the A.J.S. Bank, as has been alleged. A son
John once had an establishment on the corner of
George-street and Charlotte-place—now Grosvenor-street.
Anthony No. 1 wasapparently never in business anywhere
except in King-street East.
Passed over recently at Adelaide, aged 85,
Isaac Puddy, joioneer railway maker. He was a
native of Somersetshire
(Eng.), and, after some
English railway experi-
ence, came to South Aus-
tralia in 1855. He super-
vised the construction of
the permanent way on S.
Australia’s first genuine
railway, from Adelaide to
the Port, opened on April
21,1856. Some other works
he had a hand in are the
Adelaide to Kapunda line,
Adelaide station yard, the
loop-line from Port Ade-
laide to Dry Creek, part of
the Kingston to Narra-
coorte line, the tramlines
from Adelaide to Kensing-
ton and from Adelaide to
North Adelaide, the mac-
adamised road up Mount
Osmond, and the Holdfast
Bay line. He was a com-
prehensive man, take him
for all in all.
ic. Premier Bent is a daring devil, and
shrinks at no peril when duty calls. Orating at
r ather Robinson’s bazaar the other day he said :
“ The time has arrived—and, mind you, I say it
with a full knowledge of the risks I run and 'the
abuse I will get—when a better and kinder feeling
should exist between the people of this State.”
I hen Bent prepared to perish beneath the rush of
the infuriated multitude, but nothing happened.
“ Priam ” from Melbourne :
Pursey Chirnside was “invested” at the military
review in Albert Park (Melbourne) with the “ insignia of
the Companionship of the Order of St. Michael and St.
George.” VVhat happened was that Pursey C. (in frock
coat and hell topper) walked ouc to the Governor-General
received a box with the gaud in it, and walked away
again. There were 2000 troops and 10,000 citizens
present to see Pursey C. remove his box. What, sort of a
soul has the man who appears in front of a crowd like
that to receive the cheapest gaud in the empire !
R. A. Arnold, chief clerk to N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly, whose salary was reduced
last week, is an accomplished scholar in literary
by-paths. He is a Cornstalk, but was trim meet
and polished at Rugby and in Germany, and his
mountings are said to have cost a lot of mo ey.
He has been about 20 years in the Public Service.
His brother, William M. M. Arnold, also sp nt
over twenty years in the Public Service, but
left it on pension, and turned sharebrolo r
with, lately, disastrous consequences. Bth
are sons of Speaker Arnold, a one-time prominent
N.S.W. politician, who was drowned in the
River Paterson.
Willie-motor Kelly behaves in
the Reps, just like a great kid. It
is hard to believe that his mama or
his nurse won’t suddenly rush breath-
lessly into the Chamber calling “ Oh,
Willie, you naughty hoy ! where have
you been ? ” All through the 30-
hours’ stonewall on that famous
motion that the Chairman shouldn’t
take the chair along with him,
Willie roamed about the Opposition
side of the House wearing a Panama
hat and diligently counting up the
members every minute or so. As
soon as the tally
dropped below
25, Willie, with
a silly giggle
like a child
playing some
practical joke,
would call at-
tention to the
state of the
House. Then
as the weary
Ministerial-
ists —there
were only five
of the Op-
position pre-
sent most of
the time —
trooped in
Willie would
chuckle and
chortle and
air his alleged
wit at their
expense. It
is safe to say
that if Willie
had dared to
leave the
Chamber and
Bill Lyne had
caught him out-
side, a handy end of Willie would have been
slapped. The fact could be seen in the old man’s
eye.
A Maorilander, who is a somnambulist,
lately in his dreams fell from a hotel window on
to a corrugated iron roof 15ft. below, but only
incurred a few bruises. This is his eighth experi-
ence of the kind, and he is getting sick of it. One
night, some years ago, he went for a long walk in
his sleep, and on his return the noise made by a
big crowd awakened him. The pub. where he
lived had been burned down in his absence.
“ N.” about British royalties :
King- Edward dubs Louise of Fife Princess Royal. Dig a
little. The odds did not appear very long against her for
the throne at one time. Her husband comes down from
Countess Errol, daughter of William IV. and actress
Jordan. What a revenge by the Fates if Fife had become
—well, such King of England as he could be. William
IV., as Duke of Clarence, had 10 children by Mrs. Jordan
—the Fitzclarences. They were all sumptuously treated.
Yet poor Dora Jordan was treated most shabbily. What
strange obliquity it was of the clergy not to insist that
she was William’s wife. She had been faithful to him for
20 years. They lived at Bushy Park, Kew. The royal
cadger absorbed her very large earnings as principal
comic actress of Drury. To be sure, he contributed what
he could to the household, but to a great extent he
sponged on her. When Princess Charlotte, daughter of
the Prince Regent, died, the statesmen declared that
those dry old bucks Clarence, Kent, York, Cambridge,
and Sussex must wed nice young ladies. Heirs to
the throne were wanted. William parted from his Jordan.
He married Princess Adelaide, and had two miser-
able infants, daughters, both dying in infancy.
The most sickly thing at Windsor Castle used to be a
sculpture of one of those kids. Probably the King has
put it in the coal-hole. Dora Jordan got the announce-
ment of her virtual divorce from Clarence while playing
Nell in a farce called “The Devil to Pay.” The poor
woman burst into a passion of tears in the midst of a
comic scene. She afterwards broke through a proviso
that she must leave the stage, and this was cruelly made
an excuse for stopping- an allowance given her. Her
beftuty, youth, and attraction were gone. She perished in
miserable poverty in France. Doubtless a' clerical lesson
of retribution ! What a wretched, mean-spirited crew
were her 10 children, the Countess of Errol and the rest,
every one of them well provided for while their mother
starved. Fanny Kemble says in her autobiography that
one of the Fitzclarences, a perfect noodle, had a fat billet
as a clergyman. He was Rector of Mapledurham. He
wanted Fanny to write a sermon for him. She burst out
laughing, with, “ Well, this is rich, a clergyman coming
to an actress to write him a sermon ! ”
A SERMON ABOUT THE FEDERAL
CAPITAL.
HEB. X[?] 16 : “Here we hare no abiding cite,
but we seek one to come—and mean to hare
it, too, in spite of you, you worm.”
Melbourne Leader is publishing some
pioneering reminiscences compiled by F. M.
Snodgrass (Janet Mrs. Clarke’s brother) from his
grandfather’s letteis ’Ome. Mr. Snodgrass, an
amiable bachelor of the leisured class, has been
hawking his M.S. round Melbourne in pursuit of
a publisher for years past, and tells—in all inno-
cence—the ingenious excuses offered him by the
descendants of Barabbas to prevent their refusal
of his screed offending the wealthy Clarke clan.
Grandpa Cotton, the original chronicler, was a
wealthy nobody of the squatter tribe, and his
badly-written recollections relate mostly to the
small-beer matters in which- the squattocracy
delights.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
arid 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 6/- Fine assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, BpC. FBQ St. Martin, Paris, France
< rv
‘\\r
mr.
%
C3-0* TO UISIT.IJ-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Nag€Q, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.


At the New Palace Emporium.^
FASHION’S Foremost Fascinating' Fancies.
A MILLINERY VIEW of the
XMAS SITUATION
I
mm
No. 110— Burnt Straw Hat, trimmed Folded Band
and Bow of Pale Blue Glace Silk, 10/6.
No. 102—Black Crinoline Hat, trimmed full Quillings
of Tulle, Roses under brim, 15/6
h
-Sfc
vV
No. 81—Burnt or Colored Straw Hat, trimmed Lilac Foliage,
Chiffon and Ribbon, 15/6.
For HUNDREDS of other SUMMER BEAUTIES consult ANTHONY HORDERN’S
SPECIAL FASHION PORTFOLIO, full of the FASHIONS, and of
ANTHONY HORDERN’S FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
Anthony Hordern. & Sons
?^.S*R V s E^ A i Palace Emporium, SYDNEY.
Mates-o’-Mine.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you’ve watched them from the picket,
Kickin’ goals or playin’ cricket,
And you’ve got your betting-ticket,
Mates-o’-mine,
Just a word into your ear :
Though smilin’ Peace is here,
It may be War next year,
Mates-o’-mine.
And what are we to do ?
In numbers we’re so few —
Ain’t it up to me and you,
Mates-o’-mine,
Though far from war’s alarms,
And sport has many charms,
To learn the use of arms,
Mates-o’-mine?
Ain’t it up to me and you
To spare an hour or two
To see our country through,
Mates-o’-mine ?
And learn to hit a mark,
And heed the sergeant’s bark,
When we’re drillin’ after dark,
Mates-o’-mine;
And flaunt no gaudy clothes,
No ribbon, braid, or bows,
And never look for foes,
Mates-o’-mine ?
But be a good relation,
Though prepared to fight creation,
And a credit to our nation,
Mates-o’-mine ?
N.S.W.
NULLA.
The Asiatic and the Aborigine.
On the question of the administration of abori-
ginal affairs in North Queensland Leonard M.
Cullen writes :
You seem to be excellently well satisfied with Dr.
Roth’s administration, remarking that “ some mean-
minded persons who desire to exploit the aborigines ” ob-
ject to Dr. Roth. I would take it as a great favor if you
would allow me to advertise myself in your columns as
one of those mean-minded persons. Your commentator
judges, of course, solely by Dr. Roth’s report. If Dr.
Roth were one-tenth part as clever at the work of ad-
ministration as he is at writing reports he would be a
paragon.
There are still large numbers of aborigines left in this
district (Cardwell to Cairns). Dr. Rotii, I believe, puts
the number at 2000, and of these the great majority earn
their living by prostituting their women. Opium is the
main incentive, as it is almost the sole payment. There
is not a month that numbers of them do not die as a con-
sequence, and never a word of inquiry or of comment by
Dr. Rotii. If Dr. Rotii had tried to put a stop to the
opium traffic with the Chinese and the wholesale prosti-
tution of their women by the blacks, one might blame the
lav* bqt as a fact he has never made the least attempt to
cope with the evil. The Chinese are not allowed by law
to employ or harbor the aborigines. As a matter of fact,
they are almost the sole employers and harborers in the
district. 1 myself am probably the largest white employer
of aborigines in this district, but 1 am quite aware I am
doing it in defiance of the written law.
Dr. Roth goes to Westralia to ferret out misdoings in
relation to aborigines. Let me tell you a story hap-
pening just recently in Dr. Roth’s own territory. A
black girl, born and bred here, is married to a boy and
gives birth to a child. Her boy takes to opium and
sells his gin to a Malay. Later he returns to get her.
She is working’ here, her child a few' months old, and
refuses to go. Charlie gashes her with a razor, leaving
her with a hole iii her side you could put your hand in,
and flees. My brother sews up the wound, and looks
after the woman till she recovers. The boy returns
and coaxes or forces the woman away. For a while he is
a pensioner on the bounty of the Malay, with plenty of
opium, and is quite happy. A little while, and calling
for his pension, he is confronted with a shot-gun. Now
he is a discon tented wanderer. Shortly, at a big cor-
roboree, I see the woman, and coax her to come and pick
coffee for me. She works a week, and then, becoming
opium sick, departs with her noble husband toGeraldton.
Here Charlie becomes again the petted pensioner of a
Chinaman, but shortly, as usual, gets sour looks and
presently a beating, being forced to depart without his
lubra! Goes to the police and complains. The police
come and take the woman from the Chinaman, but not to
return to her boy or her tribe. One of the black troopers
finds her comely in his eyes, and she becomes the
property of the police camp. Two months la.er and she
is cast out—diseased and w'orn out.
Here is another story. A girl born and bred here is
married to a boy, and goes on a visit to the coast. She
takes to opium, and remains with a Malay. She also has
a child, which she leaves here. Some time later, she re-
visits her old home, and I prevail upon her to stop and
pick coffee for me. A week or so, and she tells me she
must go down and bring up her blankets and clothes.
Her husband remains behind w'ith me. A week or so passes
and she does not return, the Malay having detained her.
Her husband says, “I will go and fetch her.” I say to
him, “ You be careful. Don’t you let the Malay know
you want to take her away, or, from what I hear of him,
something will happen you.” He goes, and two days
after I hear a mourning in the camp. On inquiry, I hear
that the husband is dead. Now, he was all right when he
left here. Why, then, did he die so suddenly ? Nobody
inquires and nobody cares. Dr. Rotii is probably lectur-
ing in Tasmania, or somewhere, on the methods employed
by the blacks in scraping potatoes.
Similar tales of murder, outrage, and abominations
generally are getting more and more frequent. I have
written to the Queensland press trying to arouse public
opinion, and with no effect. Now I appeal to you, as
editor of the most widely-circulated journal in Australia.
You have great privileges and great responsibilities. Do
your duty in arousing Australians to a sense of their shame
and disgrace in the treatment of the race whom they
have dispossessed of their country and then left to the
tender mercies of the Asiatic.
-♦
The Lack of Concentration.
“ J.” on manufactures and manufacturers :
A had feature of the fight against the Yankee dumpers
is that, like the struggle of the Saxons against the Danes,
it is not a national movement, but a series of isolated
efforts by individual trades and firms. The Australian
Harvester people are putting up a good fight, but they
are alone, and the fight, in the public eye, settles around
the making of stripping machines. And yet the woollen
trade is a bigger thing than the making of agricultural
machinery, and even the despised boot holds within
its various shapes many fortunes. At present the Aus-
tralian manufacturers are making first-class men’s boots ;
as I write this I wear a pair which were made in Woolloo-
mooloo, and at 18s. fid. are better value than the Yankee
article at 225. fid. But, as far as I know, there’s not an
Australian maker turning out a high-class woman’s boot
or shoe. A fair medium boot, costing about 155., is the
best our people will attempt, and all over the place you
meet women walking round in German, Austrian, Eng-
lish, and American boots and shoes. The manufacturers
are not organised, and if they were they would
be seriously handicapped as far as Sydney is con-
cerned for want of a daily, paper in which to
present the facts of the case to the public. And, so far,
the men who have started to make something are so
heart-sick with the struggle In the face of the inadequate
tariff that they will not try and show the people the
untold possibilities there are in industries at present non-
existent. Even the Harvester people do not agitate for a
really useful duty on reapers and binders. They seem to
be content if they can have the making of strippers and
ploughs r served to them. They ask for half a loaf, and
will probably have to be content with four ounces. “ Play
Big ! ” should be the motto of every Australian Protec-
tionist. The Freetraders do it, and ask for nothing less
than the wrecking of every Australian manufacturing
industry. Manufacturers cannot blame the public for
believing the cry of Pumpkin Smith and the bray of Con-
roy that our manufacturers are a degenerate lot
who cannot make anything, when they themselves act as
though it were true. I have asked several boot
manufacturers why they don’t make high-class women’s
boots, and been staggered to learn that “ the Australians
cannot make a really light boot to equal the Continental
or Yankee! ” Yet it is only a matter of the right machinery.
I have a friend who runs a bicycle factory, and he howls
for 30 per cent, on bicycles, 40 per cent, on motor-bikes,
and not less than 50 per cent, ad valorem on motor cars—
he also howls for the right to import his parts duty free.
He admits that we can make as good parts in Australia as
they can in Britain or America, but as parts are not in his
line, he thinks they ought to come in free. Deep down,
the fairy tales Oobd'en told his fathers linger still. In his
own business he has proved them fairy tales, for with the
exception of the famous Humber, there is not a foreign
bike can compare with the Australian-made machine. If
manufacturers would only cultivate a national feeling
and consider these questions from a national standpoint
they would be doing better for themselves than they are
under the crude individualism that they at present affect.
After all, there are points about acting the part of a
keeper to one’s brother when the brother will reciprocate
by dealing exclusively with his keeper.
*
The “ Imperialists.”
N.S.W. Agent-General Coghlan reports that
Australian securities are depreciated because of
the resentment of the Kaffir magnates at the
action of the Commonwealth on the question of
the introduction of Chinese labor into the Trans-
vaal. Amongst those who have interests in what
is called the “Kaffir Circus” there exists a violent
prejudice against things Australian, arising out of
what are considered to be Australian opinions and
actions on the question of the introduction and
employment of Chinese. “ The existence of the
prejudice is a substantial fact that greatly affects
Australian interests in this country.” It may be
as well that Australians should know who control
the “Kaffir Circus,” and are affecting the des-
tinies of their native land. This can best be
shown by taking the share-list of the “Trust”
lately formed by Wernher, Beit, Eckstein and
Co. for manipulating by share transactions the
“Kaffir Circus.” Originally a £2,000,000 Trust, it
has within the last few months been developed
into a £6.000,000 Trust. Here are the original
subscribers :
Alfred Beit, Otto Beit, Henry Louis Bisciioffscheim,
Ludwig Breitmeyer, Sir Ernest Oassel, K.C.M.G., Charter
Trust and Agency Ltd., Consolidated Mines Selection Co.,
Baron Emile Beaumont D’Eclayer, A. Dunkensbubler
and Co., Frederick Eckstein, Exploration Co. Ltd., Lord
Farquhar, Arnold Friedlander, Adolph Goldschmidt,
Gustav Amrotii, Thomas Hermann Lowinsberg, Alex-
ander Maro, Daniel Memertziiagen, Carl Meyer, Max
Miciiaelis, Ludwig Neumann, Lionel Phillips, August
Ribs, The Hon. Walter Rothschild, The Hon. Charles
Rothschild, Lionel Nathan de Rothschild, Charles
Rube, Erwin Schumacher, John Seear, Speyer Bros.,
Edward Siiern, Swiss Bankwbrein, Societe General pour
Favoriser le Developement de Commerce et de l’lndus-
trie en France, James Taylor, United South African
Association Ltd., Ludwig Wagner, Julius VYerniier.
Theodore Ausbacher, Banque de Paris, Banque Fran-
caise, Adrien Benard, W. Blu.menthal, Louis d’Anvers,
Compagnie Francaise de Mines d’Or et d l’Afrique de
Sud, Emile Deutsch, Henry Deutscii, Gaston Dreyfus,
Miciiel Epiirussi, Gustav Flkurin, Baron Jagues de
Gunsberg, Adolphe Handler, Sigismund Jaiuslowsky,
Albert Kaiin, Rodolpiik Kaiin, Nathan Kulf, Elie Leon,
David Oppeniieim, Jules Parges, George Rouliot, J ean
Schulz, Edmond Tiikry.
Fritz Andrf.ae, Carl Chrombacii, Eugene Gutman,
Adolph Van Hausemann, Hermann Marks, Waldbmar
Mueller, Henry Nathan, Waldemar Rich, Julius Stern,
Julius Wertheimer, Emil Siuziieimer, Ferdinand Bis-
choffscheim, Prince Hussein Kamil Paciia.
There is Herr and Monsieur, Abraham, and even
Pacha, but a small, very small, sprinkling of
British blood. These are the cosmopolitan
financiers who own the Transvaal, and Austra-
lians fought to provide them with their much-
flogged yellow slave labor in that distressful land.
These are the men who are “ British Imperialists,”
and as such call on Australia to welcome “our
ally, the Jap.”
♦
Some experiences of a Maorilander in Britain
Twelve months ago I came to England, from Maori-
land, looking for work, and find it is a great country—to
keep out of. I have seen pretty well all there is to be
seen in England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales, and the
experience all through has been had. If I were a mil-
lionaire to-morrow I . would gladly give half to be back
once more in Australasia, if I couldn’t get taken back for
less.
Of the forty odd millions that make up the population
here there are only two classes—those who give tips, and
those who take them. At the Hotel Cecil you have your
bath, one “ man ” brings up the towels and another the
soap (two tips). If you want a drink of water, another
tip. When you go out there is a major-general or field
marshal, who swings open the door with one hand, and
holds out the other for a tip. No matter where you go it
is just the same, and if a tip isn’t forthcoming you soon
find out things.
The misery on all hands is appalling. Here, in Scot-
land, and in Ireland, I have seen women and children
with a few rags to cover their bodies, without shoes,
or stockings, or even hats, getting about in the bitter
cold of winter, and mixing up with the other kind in
fur-lined overcoats, and taking everything as a matter
of course. I have seen more grinding poverty and real
want in one half-hour in Liverpool and Glasgow than
during 30 y ears’ experience of Australia, and those towns
are infinitely better off than London.
As for politics, the worker in these parts troubles
his head very little about them. His great thought is
Beer. There is no inducement for the average worker
to get a vote. “To hell with a vote !” says he, “give
me work, and after that beer.” This about sums up the
democratic position. There are a few good democrats
sitting in Westminster, but not a fiftieth part of what
there ought to be.
I do not think many years will pass over before England
finds itself in a difficulty as to suitable recruits for the
army. During my stay in Liverpool I used every day to
pay a visit to the landing stage—where the great liners
depart from. Every week I saw thousands of the very
bone and sinew of England leaving for Canada and
the U.S. When one thinks of this drain taking place
from other centres, Glasgow, Belfast, London, South-
ampton, &c., a pretty good idea can be formed that in
future years only the weeds and wastrels will be left to
fill up the ranks'of the British army.
+
It is suggested that the High Court should be
asked to definitely fix the boundary line between
Victoria and South Australia. In the early days
by Imperial enactment the 141st degree of east
longitude was declared the boundary, but nobody
seems to have been able to properly locate degree
141. A proclamation of 1847 said it was here, and
here it remained for some years; then somebody
said it wasn’t here, but there-about two miles
further west—so in 1894 another proclamation
agreed that it was there. Next, somebody else
opined that it wasn’t there at all, but somewhere
between here and there, and S.A. claimed from
Victoria territory mile by 242 miles in extent.
Matters were left so, “without prejudice to re-
adjustment.” Now it is urged that one of these
days a sharp Lawyer may make trouble with the
point that the territory, if any, between the
present and true boundaries is a sort of Australian
Alsatia—that it is really not in any State, con-
sequently not in the Commonwealth, and there-
fore there is no law to punish any person nns;con-
ducting himself on that territory.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
_ Sydney, November 21, 1905.
My Dear Arini,—
Lord Jersey began his second time in Sydney
by shaking hands with the engine drivers and
other railway material at Redfern. Lady Jersey
is said by those who knew her in the past
to be much more tolerant, and softer-looking
Her slight greyness improves her appear-
ance ; and her brightness of eye and brainy
expression are still there. Professor Anderson
Stuart has harpooned the Jersey for a
stone-laying at Prince Alfred Hospital next
Thursday.. As the rock will be placed with “full
Masonic honors,” it will surely be allowed to stay
so. That laid at the P. A. H. by the Duke of
York, and declared by him to be well and truly
moored to the crust of the planet, was presently
hoisted up and put where it was wanted on quite
another patch of the Cosmos.
The wife and two ewe lambs of Mr. Francis
Suttor have returned from furrin parts, and one of
the lambs immediately achieved a fine crop of
measles. Mrs. “ Ted ” Simpson, one of Sydney’s
smartest and most conservative, returns by the
Macedonia this week. With her comes her daughter
who has been at school abroad. Sundry Milner
Stephens and Fitz-Wentworths returned by the
same liner. Also a Captain Caws, who has come
out to take the ex-Government yacht Victoria
back with him. One of the returned, speaking of
Melba, says that it is almost incredible the way
she bosses Covent Garden. Calve was to have
been in London last season, but Melba blocked
her and others who might impinge on her stellar-
ship. She doesn’t even make a pretence of keep-
ing faith with the public. Nights she is adver-
tised to sing prices are raised, and the house
rushed. But if Melba is not in the mood, she
cloesn t appear. The Coghlans are now living at
.Kensington Palace Mansions, and the Babylonians
say of C. : “ He is a Herculean man, and treadeth
heavily on the enemies of his country.”
Some bright-red veils braved the bustle and
breeze at Rosehill races on Saturday. Now that
scarlet has been recognised to be the cool color and
suitable for red-hot weather, we may expect often
to see the revolutionary hue floating from the
feminine masthead. Even clothing “should be
lined with red to break transmission of the sun’s
rays, say the scientists. Whatever may be the
hygienic advantages of scarlet, it is a hot-looking
color. By the way, there is now an artificial
blush. You inhale a drug—amyl nitrate—and
blush like an early Victorian girl. This blush
may become fixed by some other invention, or bv
practice. J
Archbishop Kelly put in one of the recent
boiled-weather days at a picnic on the top of
Jam beroo Mountain at Kiama. Was ever there
a word so suggestive of razzle-dazzle, high jinks
and a mosaic of a time as that native name of
J amberoo ?
N.S.W. Tourist Bureau is establishing an ex-
perimental tent town ”at Manly. The idea has
been successfully exploited elsewhere, notably at
oanta Cruz, California, where a beach “city” of
many thousand tents, including canvas casino,
restaurants, entertainment halls, etc., is in full
swing during the summer season. At present,
iv».W. will confine its activities to a few fur-
nished tents, rentable for a small sum weekly.
° lga G Kingston and Julia Strachan—last
was a Melbourne comic opera girl—were spoken
lately by a returned Australian, at Shanghai,
where they both live, wedded to rich husbands!
At least Miss Strachan s mate is rich—very He
is a Hebrew, and did a lot of blockade-running
daring the Jap-Russ war. Miss Kingston’s hus-
band is one of the Westralian Davieses, and is in
the insurance line.
That earth-girdler, R. S. Smythe, is back in
Sydney, at the Metropole Hotel, after a skurry to
London a,nd Paris. As he was there so short a
time, a,nd as he didn’t bring back anything out of
the stellar system, he is almost a returned empty.
Lva Mylott he saw, looking very handsome. She
is getting ready for her wedding to the Canadian
clqctor. A Mr. Vaile, a Maorilander in London,
was causing quite a crackling controversy in the
high-toned Spectator by writing on the “ Tone-
lessness of Englishmen.” Mr. Smythe is waiting
!!V? ydney for a cable t 0 sa y the eloquence of
.the greatest lecturer of the day” is at his ser-
vice for an Australian tour. You may guess at
the missing name.
Mention of the Spectator reminds me that
Mr. J. H. M. Abbott, a son of late N.S.W.
Speaker Joseph Abbott, is writing a series of
articles under the text, “ How it Strikes an Aus-
tralian, in that Olympian weekly. He plucks the
apple from the English Tree of Knowledge and
pares it (with a pen) most skilfully, and publishes
the core.
Aggie Thorne, the clever little comic opera
artist, had to drop out of the bills of the Gilbert
and Sullivan pieces last week. She is ill with
P. ni atism. Her place in “ The Gondoliers ” was
“J! ei d by the little Lyons girl, a Melbourne
Carlton) vision with the jettiest of hair and a
lovely voice, but otherwise something of a stick.
t tx7 V ? S bmbs if 1 the dances like semaphores.
has been having her trained and taught by
Melbourne experts for the last two years. Ralston
who dropped out of the Repertoire Co. in
Westralia, is another Australian who was “taken
trained 0^36 ° f & promisin £ voice ancl carefully
I came across this in Broad Views :
Married people should have separate homes, whether
houses, flats, chambers, or what not. Of course, there is
nothing to prevent each of them inviting the ocher to
thnpnd nU A“ ber of days ’ or even weeks ; but at
siHe d Tn hi hme the guest will return to his own fire-
181l 81 . , T° k e . unable to rid ourselves of uncongenial
society is torture undiluted. feeniai
The view is broad, but people are not sufficiently
When the famous
author of Man and Superman ” married, he and
his bride took a house each. Lack of lucre, too
will in many cases prevent such broadening of
LORD “JARSAY.”
J- eW t .1 ie same ’ they would make for a
dignified arrangement for quarrelsome married
persons.
An Australienne who went away to visit a rich
married brother living in London, tells how she
found him residing in a bachelor fiat and his wife
living at a swell ladies’ club. Their only child
was at a boarding-school. Relations between
this pair were always most friendly, but he could
rarely see her except in the public drawing-room
of her club, and, though she frequently went to
lunch or dine at his flat, it was always under
elderly chaperonage. To the amazed Australienne
the wife once remarked : “ Your brother is so in-
discreet, he often asks me to come without auntie
or mother.” Asked how she spent her time, this
lily replied that it went all too fast. It took her
the whole forenoon, year in and year out, to work
at preserving her figure, complexion, hair and
general condition. And she had evidently suc-
ceeded, for she looked a beautiful twenty-year-old.
Yet her daughter is fourteen.
Other day, I picked up a Schopenhauer essay
and read that “for the most part a woman loses
her beauty after giving birth to one or two
children.” Argument is that, having caught a
mate and produced her kind, beauty is no longer
necessary, but often dangerous. The disagreeable
old philosopher was very much out, judging by the
appearance of many ladies who have quiverfuls, let
alone “oneor two.” Recall the much-read story “My
Official Wife.” In it a pretty girl of something
under 25, by means of another’s passport, passes
without further disguise as the lady whom the
Russian chief of police knows to be a grand-
mother. I thought when I read that, the writer
was drawing the long bow very taut. But by
“taking notice” several women with fair-sized
families of well-grown youngsters may be called
to mind as looking like young unmarried women.
Amongst our recent Somebody visitors was a beau-
tiful English woman who has nine children, eldest
23. In the crudest noonday light this lady
would pass for anything between 25 and 30. Her
figure has the slender outlines of youth, her skin
the texture and her eyes the brilliancy of girl-
hood. She is one of the busiest hostesses in Lon-
don, and spends no time on special efforts to keep
her youth. It just keeps itself, or remains. No
doubt such an enviable state is largely a matter of
superb health.
Susie Yaughan s get-up as the lodging-house
keeper in “ Merely Mary Ann ” is comically good
‘business.” She has had “two’usbands eating
their ’eads off, ” and now she wears the Cardigan vest
of one of the late unlamented, and the silver chain
and watch of the other. The vest doesn’t fasten
across the lady’s opulent figure. Great is the gap
thereof and also the gaps suggested by the black-
ing out of a tooth or two. The Brisbane girl, Irby
Marshall, who is the landlady’s J\ly Rowsy,” has
been giving a good account of herself in her giggle-
some part.
an( i Mrs. B. R. Wise have been staying
with Lord and Lady Carington at their new home
m Buckinghamshire. Mr. Wise writes to a friend
in Sydney tnat Lord Carington has preserved a
diary record of events in N.S.W. during his
Governorship, together with many letters and
reports on public affairs, which have never seen
the light. . These, he says, will be invaluable to
the historian of the early days of the Federation
movement.
From S.M.H. Woman’s London Letter .
One thing is certain ; all the fitting is ever so much
closer. The idea is for length of waist and a round,
slender figure. They sell corsets for the Louis XV.
* so “ l ® es > which, as you know, terminate in a sharp point,
well boned, and the figure has to be got into subjection to
suit the line of the corsag’e.
Amd here’s Mrs. Molyneux Parkes and others
advocating for defence purposes the use of fire-
arms by. all female citizens between the ages of 15
and 20,. just the age at which “the figure has to
be got into subjection ” to suit the ever-changing
fashion. &
baiTister man tells me that during the hearing
of the Dailey divorce suit the court is thronged
with women. To spare the blushes of the corseted
and whale-boned sex the judge prohibited publica-
tion of detailed evidence in the case. But there is
evidently a section of the feminine public that has
painted out its blush and which declines to be pro-
tected from the shocking revelations. A few of
them try to give the impression that they are there
on reporting business, and make voluminous
entries in note-books. At a local police court
lately, during the hearing of a certain case, the
presiding magistrate ordered women to leave the
court. They did so—save one. She, a young,
pretty, well-dressed personage, sat at the press
table and continued to transcribe evidence that no
paper in the land would publish. But some of
the innocent males in court pitied her intensely
and wondered what brute of an editor it was who
would send a girl to do such work. Well, the
curiosity of the primal female lost us that famous
Garden, and curiosity sends the modern female to
listen at divorce court proceedings. “Nibbling at
the green apples on the shady side of the Tree,”
as someone puts it. The stockings of the women
who spend their time so are almost certain to need
mending.
A gorgeously-fronted pile of new architecture
in Elizabeth-street is labelled Turkish Baths.
Good news for this sunstruck and southerly-
busted-on city.
There’s a recoil of sorrow to the joy of the five
Browne girls who share the £6OOO Tattersall money.
Their father died suddenly a few days after the
luck had come to his girls.
One Virgil, not he who wrote of Arms and the
Man, but the inventor of the silent practice Clavier
system, is to arrive in Australia soon to lecture on
the royal road to pianoforting. There must be
something in it, for Mr. Edwardeg, examiner for
the Royal College of Music, says “ nothing makes
me so sure-footed on the piano as the Clavier
system.”
Mrs. Hickson, wife of one of the Commissioners
of the Harbor Trust and mother of Mrs. “Ted ”
Merewether, just missed death by a hair’s breadth,
the other day, when a bright blue signboard, about
twelve or fourteen feet long, fell on her in George-
street. There was a mighty wind blowing, and
the article dropped from a considerable height, yet
the lady escaped with a fractured leg.
Sophie Osmond, a perseveringly battlesome
presswoman, formerly of Melbourne but now in
London, is writing a series of short stories in
Sketchy Bits. “Jinks, J.P.,” the series is
named and the hero is Australian. One of the
owners of S. Bits asked her for a hero “ who could
bushrange, and detect crime, and carry his swag,
and get in and out of gaol and other tight places
with ease.’’ The article is being supplied. Aus-
tralia is still to the British mind the place where
the bushrangers come from, and the fact that the
bushranger is gone and the land-agent has arrived
hasn t yet penetrated the fog of .London.
The law must be a fearsome thing in Westralia.
Recently, when a maddened cow wrecked a
drapery shop, and came away with the new
season s fashions festooned on its horns, trod on a
young woman, and nearly killed two clergymen,
the police went away to get legal advice as to
their right to shoot at the animal. They saw the
Attorney-General about it, and he looked up
dusty precedents while the cow galloped round
generally. 1 inally the intricate legal point was
cleared up, and the cow perished about sunset.
A feature that will stand out like Wilson’s Pro-
montory, at next Saturday’s Jewish Benefit Con-
cert -bund for Russian Jews, will be the singing
by Mrs. Francis Cohen, the new Rabbi’s wife of
a Hebrew melody—“ O, Weep for Those.” Words
are Lord Byron’s, but the air is traditional. The
lady has a wonderfully sweet and highly-trained
mezzo-soprano of light quality.
The Maheno (named after a Maoriland lake)
the new turbine steamer, first of its kind in
Sydney, is a beautifully dyed, and “dressed ” and
painted steamer—olive green outside, with an
orange frieze and the well-known sealing wax
red funnels affected by the Union S.S. Co. The
vessel held a great reception on Friday night
m honor of its maiden trip, and left for Welling-
ton on Saturday with 400 passengers. Mr and
Mrs. David Mills hosted the festival. Mrs. Mills
was an Auckland belle of the past days, small and
blonde, and still keeps much of her charm. The
three Mills brothers went in for beauty all the
time. The Maheno did the trip from Melbourne
to Sydney in 29 hours, and the usual rapid run of
other craft, mail-liners included, is 44 hours.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The polite Joe Cook, at the very beginning
of the recent stonewalling debate :
Mr. Joseph Cook moved that the Chairman leave the
chair. He wished to protest, he said, against the manner
in which this Bill was being forced at the present time,
ihere were other measures of supreme importance—
the Immigration, Electoral, and Capital Site Bills—and
yf b,® 8111 , J?, as suddenly thrust into the forefront.
The Electoral Bill was definitely fixed for that day.
The Attorney-General : No particular time was fixed.
Mr. Joseph Cook (fiercely): The hon. member knows
nothing about it. He will behave much better if he talks
oi what he knows, instead of starting' with his perky im-
pudence at the outset.
The trouble in the Representatives is that no one
there knows anything except Joe Cook, and Cook
is generally so mad with rage that his vast know-
ledge isn’t available.
THE CROWNING CHARM
Of a pretty woman is—not hair, not eyes, not
features, not figure, but a good complexion. “ Valaze ”
is the great creator and preserver of good complexions.
It removes wrinkles, freckles, tan, blackheads, etc., and
substitutes a fair, soft, smooth skin that is the delight
of its fortunate possessor, and the charm of all beholders.
“ Valaze ” is scientifically prepared from herbs grown in
the Carpathian Mountains. It is guaranteed to be non-
hair producing, bringing nothing but beauty in its train.
Price, 3s. 6d. and 65., posted fid. extra. New importations
from Vienna. Comtesse Potocca’s “ Voskpasta,” to be used
with “ Valaze ” Herbal Soap, 3s. per jar. A delightful
preparati n. Comtesse Potocca’s “Creme Promenade”
for outdoor entertainments, 3s. 6d. per jar. A wonderful
beautifier. “ Valaze ” special “ Blackhead Cure ” guaran-
teed. 3s. fid. per jar. “ Valaze ” Massage Rollers, for use
in your home. Washington H. Soul, Sydney, leading
chemists in all States, or Mdlle. H. Rubinstein and Co
274 Collins-street, Melbourne. Guide to Beauty Free.* ’’
A COOLING
- DRINK
HEERING’S
CHERRY BRANDY
WITH
ICE WATER
PIVERS
t
delicate & persistent
WHOLESALE ONLY -
IViIDDOWS BROTHERS. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELUNGTQNhz
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN * OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
Dress Pabriss
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
THE VARNISHED BOARD
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 20 1905
Mr Dear Yarrie, —
A moneyed bride relates how thickly her dn
mestic path was strewn with difficulties when she'
started at the head of a mansion. Day after dav
cook was summoned for consultation, and fresh
• dishes were marked down to take hubby’s fancy
1 here seems little variety in meat,” complained
the amuous missus one morning. ‘ ■ It’s the fault
ot the beasts, was the laconic reply of cook
‘ JNonsense,” rejoined the missus; “I’ll seethe
butcher myself.” She did in her frothiest morn-
mg rig. Please state what meats there are”
commanded the apparition. The dazed deputy
ot the bull and sheep business did. When he
stopped, the vision in the soft muslin frills pined
for more variety of animal, and asked disgustedly
Is that all?” Blue apron thought for a while’
and then added, “Well, ma’am, the boss was
thinking of introducing a- little kangaroo and goat
flesh. Now when the bride tells the yarn as an
instance of domestic trials people guffaw, and she
can’t make out why. It seems cruel to her that
Nature doesn’t sympathise with the trials of a
young wife by adding to the number of edible
animals, though after all it is the fault of man
and woman in declining to eat the animals there
are. The streets are full of horses and solicitors
and such like.
A foreign Baron (another of ’em) is starring at a
very swagger hostelry. He wears a moustache in
the German pin-sticking fashion and toreador
vests. He also boasts a look of frequent tubbing.
“Such a clean man !” is a remark one hears with
frequency. One doesn’t know why. The baron
in question landed in ’roo-land apparently poor,
but, after a little time, money as up-to-date manna
fell from Heaven. Just now the local girls are
devotedly his. j •
Crochet work in an hotel lounge is the most
virtuous occupation a civilised city yields.
During the rush and whirl of the Horse Week
revels, one Toorak blonde, who had pegged out a
perch in town for the grand hustle of the year,
used to take up a cosy corner seat beneath the
shade of the sheltering winter-garden palm before
lunch, and ply her needles with the zeal of
Penelope knitting for the price of her next meal.
Ihe hotel johnnies, rather disgusted at this
industry in the first place, afterwards fell to
thinking that the blonde looked real cute at her
work, and, as they circled around, found much to
admire in the play of her most elaborately polished
fingers. If this industry was a pose, it was a most
successful one.
The most conspicuously-caparisoned Sydneyite
whirling here Cup-time was a showy dame who
made a point of displaying her lingerie and cami-
sole ribbons to every advantage through her fresh-
air yokes. Fellow-lodgers at her hostelry learnt
the whole tale of the under-wardrobe by heart
through the dame’s scheme of wearing transparent
or very open trellis bodices. Every day the cami-
sole, with its large ribbon bows, was changed
while the dress wasn’t, which showed that, in this
case, most importance was attached to what the
French delicately call “ the dessous.”
MY PIEBALD CO[?]NTRY.
The Acting'-Consul-General for Japan and Mrs. Iwasaki
gave a garden party yesterday afternoon at their resi-
dence, “ Ivanhoe,” Croydon, and entertained a number
of prominent citizens. The guests were welcomed on the
lower lawn by their host and hostess. Mr. Iwasaki wore
the Japanese national full dress. It consisted of what
looked like a pleated petticoat of brown silk. Over this
was worn a black kimona and blue waistcoat; on the
kiinona were embroidered the family coat-of-arms on
white buttons. The costume is always completed by a
tall silk hat —the British hat. — Sydney Telegraph.
“ Banzai! God save Bruce Smith! You can’t
beat the boys of the Geisha breed.”
The surgeon O’Haras unfurled the festive bunt-
ing last Wednesday. Mrs. O’Hara was in a quiet
sea green, and her crown-piece ran to a stretch of
foamy feathers. All the O’Hara bairns, in short
frocks and long legs, ran blithely among the
gathering. Miss Ruby Madden looked plump
and severe in a penitence garb of blue zephyr,
while her mama frolicked in a giddy muslin
a-sprawl with pink cabbage roses. Mrs. H.
Butler’s wonderful raiment also ran to a sprawl of
pink roses. The two M'Evoy dames and Mrs.
Norman Menzies were an aloof bunch of theatri-
cals. Mrs. Bland Holt and Miss Nannie Bennet
buzzed among the throng. The grandmothers of
the gathering struggled to get at a fortune-teller
who was part of the amusement. Girleens fresh
out of the college shell gazed in amazement at the
old dames. ‘ ‘ Haven’t they had their fortune ? ”
queried one petulant Miss. Probably the edddy


granny who rushes to the Sibyl doesn’t want to
know about a next husband, but about the size
and quality of her next world harp, and the color
of her future halo.
Rupert Clarke had word, Steeplechase morn,
that he’d have to get to the Cold Country. Three
days later he was aboard the China with quite a
family party—Miss Vera Clarke and the Reggie
pair.
There was no encouragement to sit out at the
G.-G. ball. The fountain court, which usually
lends itself so readily to the tete-a-tete in private,
was loudly illuminated, and chairs, busi-
ness-like chairs, were severely placed around
so that couples were in full view of each other and
the promenaders. That isn’t the way to help on
engagements in high life. It would be so toney
to say “Algernon proposed to me at the Govern-
ment House ball.”
One dainty Mdlle. wore the white of the newly-
fledged at the North cote ball. This was the
daughter of Madame He Bavay, a Frenchwoman
of some account in a set that rather prides itself
on knowing who’s who.
The shrimp-complexioned Stonington caddie
hies back to the Big Smoke in 1906. The Buchanan
leave being up, the Innocent Abroad ships him-
self back again.
The Bowes Kellys, after causing the birth-rate
to go up one recently, led the cake-walk at the
Australian Club hop. The G.-G. and his dame
changed partners with the Kellys, and the quartet
vis-a-vised at the head of the whole wool con-
tingent.
The drollest incident in connection with that
Australian Club ball is related by a Bananalander,
who had marked down the fizzy fling as the one treat
of the clothes-horse week. _ In order to feel fit for
the affair the visitor, a resident at the club, took
a nap after dinner. He awoke subsequently to
hear two voices murmuring spiced somethings to
each other in the corridor beyond his crib. He
hearkened as in a dream. “ I slipped Bred up for
two waltzes. Isn’t that shocking?” cooed one.
( J^ n me up, so it’s all right,” mur-
mured the other. The man grasped the fact that
the hop was in full swing if a flutterer had had
time to cheat a johnnie of two whirls. He rushed
™ one demented for a light and the time-piece.
Ihe dial pointed to a quarter after midnight, and
he solemnly cursed all after-dinner naps and settled
down angrily to snore again.
The most fetching of the young things showing
forth m snowy frills at the Australian Club hop
was Miss Olive Atherton (for whom you have not
to acquire a taste as most have to for olives).
She s a tall, shapely young Miss with small clever
features ; she has also a handsome sister who has
just come from a gad abroad. Mr. and Mrs. Tom
Atherton have now two dashing girls “ out.”
The Rev. Evelyn Snodgrass was the one spec-
tacled divine to look in at all the balls of most
account this carnival time. The unctuous shep-
herd spent a busy time at the Northcote fling
talkingyto the wallflowers, of whom there were
many.
The M‘Eacharns and the Gillotts have much to
answer for. The expensive style in which they
carried through their Mayoral terms has put the
fear of a poor or shabby front in the hearts of their
successors. The Strongs had their work cut out
to make ends meet. The Pleasance couple went
to greater extremes. And now the Weedons—a
couple not given to any dash or glitter—are seek-
lng to keep up the gaud Mayor end of the stick.
Already the pair have invested in a carriage, and
other extravagances are due.
Dame Forrest has to be applauded now and
then for her downright bold way of doing things.
Most fashionables, dumping their silver on a nag,
seek a bookie in a secluded corner for the bet, but
Bigjohn Forrest’s missus defies the whole popu-
lace. She thought of F.J. A. as the lucky tip of
' Sfceeplechase card. So, accompanied by the
cheild, she gathered up her skirts and faced a
bellower of the odds right in the gaze of Terrace
and Stand, and questioned his price. It suited
and the pencil-agent scribbled the odds, and Dame
Forrest made an umbrella and fan and glass stand
of the. cheild, while she dug into an omnium
gathenum 1 ag of puffs, pencils, cards, ball tickets,
tram passes and what not, for the silver.
The Judge Molesworths have bestowed on all
their girls Tennysonian labels. One of them, who
made her miniature presentation bob at- the
Northcote dance last week, is named Lynette.
ohe doesn t look it. Isabel or Florence would
have suited better. An elder sister (Elaine), now
tripping abroad, is likewise labelled unsuitably
Elsie would be much nearer the mark. It’s a
common thing to brand the babe that turns out a
missionary sister as Belle or Daisy, while the
infant that develops into a siren is called Angela.
The Lowther Clarkes have scattered pasteboards
r? r l awn party at Bishopscourt to meet the
G.-G. on Friday next. Once a year the Bishop
Clarkes break into a lawn revel at which society
chicks collide with the gaiters that are above
reproach, and think they’re in the way of grace
by the act.
The Carty Salmons have had Mrs. Harris, of
Sydney, here for the races. The brisk'Sydney
ex-mayoress put ’em all on for the functions of
most consequence, and figured in brocaded rig at
everything. She kept up the pace of a youngster,
and her high spirits never fell more than five
degrees at the most damping shivoo. Melbourne
has improved Mrs. Carty Salmon. That cheerful
young dame wore smart and tasteful raiment all
through the revels.
The Sydney Mayoral Taylors entered the lists
as entertainers while frisking at the Carnival here.
He gave two Grand Hotel dinners to his municipal
and other mates.
Mrs. Charlie Fairbairn rallied the damp wet
wmd-tossed Golfers to a gamble and evening snack
at Menzies’ the last Saturday in October. Pit was
the main diversion, and the strong-lunged sister-
hood, used to exercising fortissimo chords on the
cows that interrupt the range of the golf ball, went
strong and lustily at the noisiest game in this
strenuous parlor age. Miss Muriel Cumming
amassed more corners in chaff and oats than any
of the other vociferous criers and walked off with
the silver trophy. Mrs. Fairbairn by this Menzies
splash has distanced all the other golfing dames,
whose hospitalities rarely reach beyond a toasted
muffin and a tinned song.
A very charming dame, housed in a fashionable
hotel, relates pathetically how she had to give up
her pretty private suite furnished in Morris green.
It wasn’t economy, but she found that the lonely
males of the hotel made it their practice to im-
plore an invitation to join her in the green suite
for tea. Good-naturedly she yielded a few times.
Then more males came begging for tea with two
lumps of sympathy in it. But the dame was of
highly proper notions, and honestly had a pre-
ference for her husband’s society, so she decided
to gently decline the role of comforter in her own
green suite, but found it such a task invent-
ing excuses and administering the snub gently
that she gave up the green suite. Now the dis-
consolate male has to be content with a word in
the lounge or a nod in the dining-hall, and sadly
misses the comforts of that afternoon chat in the
snuggery. “I found,” says the dame, with a
pathos that has an undertone of satisfaction,
“ that I couldn’t keep the green suite and my
reputation at the same time. So the suite went.”
. An impudent young pinch-nosed eligible, who
indulges a penchant for attractive dames,
has run foul of two indignant husbands.,
Now, when he meets an attractive young madam,
he anxiously asks what sort of brute the spouse
is. “Does he look troublesome?” asks the
anaemic Lothario., Some day a large hulking
heavy-weight of'a husband will crush the life out
of the interloper, with one extra pressure of his
business fist. Nothing less, it seems, will teach
him not to peck at the prohibited apple. ‘ •
Miss Muriel Gumming sets sail for' London
almost immediately. The:rest of the Cliveden
Clarkes spread their deck-cliairs early in 1906.
The servant trouble increases! The most up-to-
date Suzette inquires, after learning that there is
a satisfactory number of males in the family, how
many windows there are to clean ? There is a
story of a prominent, though rather poverty-
stricken, dame in a suburb that, in order to keep
her maid-of-all-work in good humor, she herself
polishes up 18 windows every Sabbath eve.
Mrs. Albert Miller entertained at Whernside on
1 uesday. A Conservatorium brand of music was
turned on, that magnificent cherub, Mr. Hal
Cohen, and Miss Ruby Grey contributing. The
silver-topped hostess wore blue-spotted chiffons
and a hat with nodding black plumes.
The foreign lover is an inflammable brand. One
of him has got himself tangled up in the affec-
tions of a plump, dressy dame, whose husband is
one of those troublesome persons who insist on
the public exposure of an insult. Things have
reached a painful pass, and the onlookers are in a
fever of excitement.
Mr. Sedgwick, a large swagger visitor with
tender feet, has scattered a few P.P.C. cards
around the Yarra-scented suburbs. Some elderly
dames are a squire the less. An old military swell
with a family tree packed away in his kit is such
a diversion for the old fry.
. Miss Lvelyn Scott contemplates an early plunge
into matrimony. For once friction in the well-
organised team of Williamson and Co. led to a
desertion or two. Miss Evelyn Scott, with fresh
plans in her mind, seceded from the ranks, and
purposes wedding her musical fiance before the
A mas cards are delivered. She will probably
.lom-uhe Jackson troupe and be the chief star
of their fraternal turn. The cheery mummer
made her start in stage life with Rickards and
would feel at home in returning to vaudeville.
A certain foreign Consul got through his levee
salute all right this year. In 1903 he started off
m brave uniform and reached the vice-regal
mansion intact. In descending from his cab some
strain told and his most responsible garment was
rent in twain. He dived back into the brougham,
gave the order for homeland got there as quickly
as possible. But the torn article couldn’t be
brought together again, and an apology had to
represent him that year. This year he had a
fresh outfit and got through all right.
Miss Alison Fairbairn gathered all her single
friends together on the Friday of Cup week for a
ply farewell to Miss Yera Clarke. The good-
bye tear dripped into the Dresden cup at Dun-
raven.
The Pleasances go to recover from the trials and
spermgsofthe mayoral term to the breezy beach
of Sandringham for the whole season of iced
squashes.
The old cl o’ sales have commenced. Theygene-
rally get brisk after a Cup, when the bills pile up
and last season’s chiffons are crowded out. One
loorak charmer, who prepares to flit to the Big
Smoke once more, relates sobfully how she ripped
the silk lining out of her skirts, then spread them
in a heap before the stale clothes garnerer. He
turned them over with the point of his boot and
with his nose m the air, finally offered, with
an air of ill-conceived disgust, “ Ten bob ’’—that
was the way he put it—for four frilly rigs that had
been chronicled through the season with gorgeous
epithets by the social scribes. She tools: the
miserable sum with a snort. Since then, she has
passed the word to her practical pals to leave the
suk linings, in, and do a deal with any ugly old
witch rather than with the man broker.
The dancing schools, where the small boy
waltzes under protest and the future ballerina
learns to kick, are making their annual splashes
e^ tsklrt T i of the fe stive season. The pupils
of the Misses Hyams were to rally at St. Kilda
I own-hail on Tuesday this week, and Mrs. Green,
with daughter Florrie, will put a large force of
plain and fancy steppers into action at Melbourne
1 own-hall on the 4th of next month. Fully 500
pupds are to march in processional order
at the Green ball.
THE SPIRITS.
The Mikado has attended one of the national shrines,
and reported a successful conclusion of the war to the
spirits of his ancestors. —Press Item.
There is an unreliable rumor in Melbourne that
Dr. Maloney, M.11.R., may take proceedings
against Conroy, M.11.R., for wilful injury to his
bedding during the recent Federal stonewalling
debate. Dr. Maloney had brought in a couple of
pillows and blankets and proceeded to retire to
rest on the back Ministerial bench, but just then
an adjournment division happened, the Opposi-
tion crossed over, and Conroy seized the haber-
dashery and threw it violently out. The Mel-
bourne representative rescued his goods, and once
more went to sleep, this time more in the eye of
the Opposition than ever, on the second bench.
But it is alleged that one of the pillows was
frayed at the edge through Mr. Conroy’s violence,
and if he doesn’t pay for the damage trouble may
ensue.
Mrs. Maesmore Morris is off to the Land of
Fogs this week. She takes her small boy abroad
and puts him to school. For the past week or
two she has been the guest of the Morris family at
Elsternwick. It’s quite unique to find the dis-
carded spouse blamed by his family and their
whole sympathy going out to the divorcing wife.
Miss Queenie Cadden exhibits and demonstrates
her top 0 (finished in Europe) to the concert-goer
in hot December. The Victorienne has been
giving sample songlets all over the Cold Country
for a year or two.
Miss Amy Willard gives the local golfer a hint
how to be beautiful though a sport in the present
“ Princess mellowdrama. She comes into the
rustic scene in a trim cream opera rig and a French
sailor hat with a sportive quill pointing to the
setting sun. It’s the neatest rig on the neatest
figure ever imagined on the golf links. Evidently
there’s no dust and no dirt and no rain and no
cows on the English links, for Miss Willard after
encountering (in her own words) several severe
bunkers and hazards, arrives as fresh as paint to
the public view.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
That pathetic old ass, M‘Lean of Victoria,
doing a weep over the proposed standing orders
for the prevention of obstruction, said “ there was
a danger that Parliament might develop into a
tyrannical instrument of oppression.” The Par-
liament is elected by the whole adult population,
so Mac is probably afraid the people, through
their Parliament, will shamefully usurp their own
authority, and load themselves with chains, and
become such a burden upon themselves that they
will be afraid to speak for fear they should over-
hear themselves and consign themselves to a
dungeon. All this because it is proposed that the
people’s representatives should have power to pre-
vent M‘Lean’s friend Johnson talking to them
about nothing for four hours at a stretch.
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on "receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
Vigilans : The Northern Territory has
tried Chinese, and finds that they won’t do. A
man said to me the other day : “ Chinese labor is
not cheap labor ; the labor we want is Hindu
coolie labor. ’ “What do you propose to pay
them. I asked. “Eight pounds a year,” was
i the reply. Note the request— cheap labor. They
! don t pretend up here (N.T. ) that a sober, cleaii-
living white man can’t stand the climate. It is
only in the south that you get the hypocrisy about
labor that can stand the climate.” It is cheap
labor they are all after ; and when they’ve thought
,d it they have found it wasn’t cheap.
1 lie only way is to bind the labor before it arrives
And that means slavery.
There is, seemingly, a considerable market
for expensive toys in Australia. The miniature
warships used in the “Bombardment of Port
Arthur at I rmces’ Court, were not imported by
the management. The imposing little vessels
were bought at the Melb. warehouse of J. and A
goods f !* Who mak9 a specialfc y of that class df
The was startled last week
to hear of th falling down. Edward VII.
fell on his pea-shooter and
.unaccountably smashed it.
•Mot ’oply that, but Ed-
into a
and there-
by""iDst-sorfie boot polish.
The head_ game-keeper
(the game-keeper who
points out aW the
hares which* Ned
shoots) removed the
Royal boot and sock
and stroked the
majestic toe, while
the other part of
His Majesty re-
clined on the
prickly bracken.
The kerridge was
called, and in
the evening the
King was able to
attend a drama-
tic entertain-
ment.
Again the ter-
rorism of the
union. One re-
cent morning the
auctioneer at the
Sydney pig sales,
delighted at the
unusually large
muster of buyers,
put up the first lot,
descanted on the
worth of the pig and
the virtues of his an-
cestors, and then—dead
silence. The pig-buyers
had struck work, but were
all there to watch for
blacklegs. It-appears that
the law lays down the rule
that pigs shall not be driven
along the streets of the city
after 6 a.m., and as the
buyers had been flagrantly
and ostentatiously chivying their
bacon and ham in a live condition
through the public highways after that
hour, they were told that steps might pos-
sibly be taken to enforce the statute. Whereupon
the union of dealers damned the law, dropped its
tools and struck. And the Government in this
crisis ? No cries for free laborers, no Gatling guns,
no anything. Merely a polite intimation to the
strikers that they needn’t bother about any laws
unless they chose. You see, pig-raising is one of
our great natural resources.
Resolution recently passed by Sea Lake
(Vic.) Farmers’ Association :
That the Commonwealth Government be requested to
impose no duty on harvesters until the manufacturers
have reduced the price to £6O.
In other words, the Sea Lake farmers would
refuse the Australian manufacturer any Protec-
tion until he offers his machines at £lO less than
the present price of American machines —which is
a “dumping” price designed to knock out the
Australian manufacturer. Proof that it is knock-
ing him out comes in the recent discharge of 130
workmen by the Australian Sunshine Harvester
Co., because of the competition of the £7O im-
ported machine. It would serve the Sea Lake
farmers right if Parliament took them at their
word ; then, when the American trust had wiped
out the Australian industry, they would have to
pay for their harvesters anything over £lOO, as
farmers do in Argentina, where there is no local
manufacturer. It never occurs to the Sea Lake
farmers, by the way, to suggest that the Ameri-
cans should not be allowed to send any harvesters
to Australia till they are willing to sell at £6O.
-
fe.
o
iSI
r
- *
I
(S<2,
f«
r\
a£>
After Long Dalliance ...
SUMMER IS HERE!
THE TRYING DAYS ARE
AT HAND WHEN . . .
GOOD DRESS PRESERVERS
BECOME A NECESSITY.
There is JUST ONE RELIABLE MAKER
KLEINERT.
To ensure Personal Comfort Ladies u-ni i
DRESS SHIELDS of AMPLE SIZE \nd onfv
those that bear the
KLEINERT Trade Mark.
Shun the “JUST AS su -h
are made.
SEVEN YEARS’
MISERY
Wind, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Dread oe Food ;
SWEPT AWAY BY
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S SYRUP
- “I suffered severely for Seven
Years from Chronic Indiges-
tion. After every meal I suffered
Read Torture from accumula-
tions of Wind and Gas on the
Stomach. I used to Dread to go
to my meals on this account. Ex-
treme Nervousness, Pressure
and Palpitations of the Heart
and a horrible Burning Sensa-
tion in The Stomach also caused
me great Distress and Suffer-
ing. I tried many remedies, but
none gave me permanent Relief.
“Then, I tried Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup. I felt some benefit
from it, soon after the very first
dose, and so I continued to take it
regularly, three times a day, till
the disease and all its distressing
pains and miseries disappeared.
I now enjoy first-rate health.”
Better from Mr. GEORGE E.
Cuehane, 145 Sutherland Street,
Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W. ;
January 20, 1905.
*** You should not endure such
miseries as those above described
for seven days—not to speak of
seven years—after reading Mr.
Culhane's letter. Get Mother
Seigel’s Syrup and use it promptly.
C. Stratmanns *
FINE....
Made on the CHOCOLATES .«i
p, “ SWEETHEATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
S YDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Rnnm


POLITICAL
POINTS
If the Argus, and Sydney Morning
Herald, and the Daily Telegraph, and Bruce
Smith, and John Stinson were in Russia just
now, they would, of course, thank God that that
country isn’t cursed with arbitration laws like
New South Wales.
Sydney Telegraph now begins to write
letters to itself—at least they read as if perpetrated
by the same fine Roman fist which does the lead-
ing articles—from dispassionate but indignant
citizens with straws in their hair, demanding that
Sydney shall be the Federal capital whether the
Constitution allows it or not.
Apparently the Freetrade party hates the
Australian flag as much as it hates Australian
industries. It transpires that the Reid Govern-
ment informed the Admiralty, in reply to a
dispatch, that it didn't want the Australian flag
to ny on the so-called Australian Squadron. It
didn’t want to see the darned thing anywhere.
A protest from Adelaide :
Sydney legislators, State and Federal, are incessantly
vapping about N.S.W. being so great and prosperous that
it practically supports the other units of the Common-
wealth. Yet with the next breath they wail like bankrupt
bottle merchants if the Australian Government proposes
to spend 9d. outside of New South Wales. One would think
Joy Oarruthers was threatened with financial ruin by
the'proposed printing of stamps at Adelaide, and his in-
sistence that the stamps must he printed at Sydney would
make one imagine that stamps were his State’s only in-
dustry, and when it is gone everything will shut up.
THE BLESSINGS OF BRITISH RULE!
The roll-call of Chinese slaves at the S.J.P.M.L. proper to, Johannesburg.
Photo. by Landmark, Jo'burg.
Possibly the “free breakfast table” gag
that Maoriland Premier Seek!on has started, with
a view to the election, is simply his gentle, astute
reply to the truculent Farmers’ Union. The
bucolic Union, which is mostly anti-Seddon, has
been bellowing a good deal lately about the
blessings of Freetrade in agricultural machinery
an 1 the like—things it uses but doesn’t make.
Seddon’s bland offer of Freetrade in the things
the Farmers’ Union makes is likely to set that
body roaring like a scalded lion.
Last week’s stupendous stonewall in the
House of Representatives began, as usual, because
the Deakin Government tried to get some work
done. The Opposition offered to let a certain
number of clauses of the Trade Marks Bill go
through in one night. The Government, which
is constantly taunted with not making progress,
wanted to get a larger number of clauses through,
whereupon the Opposition minority gave notice
that it would talk against time and prevent the
majority getting anything through.
Melbourne Trades Hall Council is discuss-
ing a proposal by Mr. Tom Mann for an Aus-
tralian six-hours working day “to solve the
unemployed problem.” This is the fool idea with
which Mr. Mann started his mischievous course in
Sydney. Why doesn’t the dear old Mother
Country keep its rabbits and thistles and Tom
Manns?
J. Lesina, of the “ extreme ” section of
the Queensland Labor party, fathers the (probably
false) yarn that both Kidston and Morgan, the two
men who are just now dragging Queensland out of
the mud, are iooking for soft billets. Lesina never
did anything for Australia but wag a fluent and
often foolish jaw. Probably he can’t understand
men ivorking for their country. Possibly he can t
understand men, real men, at all.
Labor-member Thrower has a question on
the notice-paper of N.S.W. Assembly as to
whether the new furniture for Parliament House
Library is being made by prison labor; and will
the Government give the work to free citizens ?
The idea that it is a good thing for the free citizen
to pay out of his earnings to keep the erring gaoled
citizen in idleness is one of those quaint super*
stitions that, it seems, will never die.
George Reid’s telegram to Joe Cook re the
rotten stonewall was a lovely tribute to the purity
and goodness of the bygone Reid-Deakin truce.
He wired Joseph as follows: “There is one great
benefit to be derived from present situation.
Deakin’s unhappy fall from lofty policy to abject
pandering is now apparent to all Australia.
What time Deakin lay low for Reid’s con-
venience his policy was “lofty.” When he walked
into Reid’s place he “ fell unhappily.”
Iron grave railings are now so freely im-
ported into Victoria that the local makers are
ceasing to manufacture.
Gnat Levi, one of the old Vic. House of 48
Rich Landlords, and a bitter opponent of the
Factories Act, has written a piteous letter to the
Melbourne press about the position of the Jews in
Russia. Yet this same Levi has all his life been
foremost in blocking every attempt of the same
movement which is trying to aid the Jews in
Russia to-day. One of the worst points about the
Jews is that they are ready to participate in all
the advantages for which the Democracy fights,
and yet, the moment they are emancipated, turn
round to kick the ladder by which they rose.
Had it not been for the movement of which latter-
day Socialism is the representative, the Jews in
English-speaking countries would to-day be treated
as they are in Russia, and the Rats’ Push would
probably be toying with Levi’s scalp in Bourke-
street at the moment of writing.
Shortly before last N.S.W. State elections
The Bulletin sent Dr. Arthur. M.P., a circular
asking him the following questions:—
1. Are you in favor of an absolute cessation of borrow-
ing, except- for renewal purposes— i.e., are you against
any increase of the public debt?
2. Are you in favor of establishing a sinking fund for
the repayment of existing debts?
3. Are you in favor of setting aside an adequate sum
out of revenue for the maintenance of public works and
the construction of necessary new works ?
The Bulletin got this reply from Dr. Arthur :
The delay in answering your letter was due to having
to give time to the consideration of such revolutionary
(in Australia at least) proposals. However, after shiver-
ing on the brink for a time I have plunged in. I have
made your questions the basis for part of my two last
addresses, and have bravely answered “ yes ” to them all.
The only exception I might make would be re borrowing
under.a compulsory settlement scheme, and then I would
have all the moneys received from the sale of land so
safeguarded that no Treasurer could touch them. I
would prefer to see taxation increased to enable us to pay
our way, and construct our own public works out of
revenue.
Dr. Arthur is again out on the brink—making all
speed away from the Pool of Healing, and looking
nohe the better for making his dip into political
honesty such a transient one.
A Norwegian and two Manila men have
just been convicted in Westralia of enticing a
commercial traveller, who was known o _
money about him, on board a boat under the pre-
tence of selling him pearls, and then murdering
him in a horribly deliberate manner, lo quote
the Westralian correspondent of an eastern paper :
“This adds another to the already long list ot
serious crimes committed in this State by aliens.
Murders by Britishers and Australians are almost
unknown.”
An example of N.S.W. State financing.
In a great flurry of enthusiasm the Government,
on August, 1904, paid £2082 for Milson Island
(Hawkesbury Ri /er) with the intention of build-
ing there an Inebriate Asylum. The hurry was so
great that there was no time to give full con-
sideration to other sites offering. Since then not
one stroke of work has been done towards build-
ing the asylum, and the drunk is just fined ss. as
usual. The money was, of course, loan money
and is supposed to be permanent and reproduc-
tive.
The N.S.W, Assembly had a day out last
Week. It knocked £l5O off the salary of the 1 re-
sident of the Legislative Council, £7O off the
Council’s Chairman of Committees, £9O oft the
Clerk of the Parliaments, £5O off the Clerk Assist-
ant, £4O off the Usher of the Black Rod, £2OO off
the Speaker of the Assembly, £4O off the
Assembly’s Chairman of Committees, £lOO oft the
Clerk of Assembly, £5O off his assistant, £34 oft
his second assistant, £33 off the Sergeant-at-Arms,
and £26 off the Clerk ot Records. But it didn t
knock anything off the Public Debt.
The folly and injustice of the system
whereby N.S.W. Parliament deals with the
estimates at the end of the calendar year, while
the financial year starts on July 1, is shown m the
cases of those public servants who have suddenly
lost, in some cases, £lOO a year. Their deductions
all date back to July 1, so that not only do they
lose part of their future salary, but they have to
refund back salary which they have probably
spent. And all because the Government is too
busy being coarse and uncivil to the I ederal
Parliament to keep its work up to date.
Who would think, considering the blood-
shot fury of the Cabbage-Tree Mob in the Repre-
sentatives over the proposed new Standing Order
to diminish obstruction, that it is merely an
adoption, in a modified form, of the system which
the British House of Commons has used for
years, and which exists in every State Legislature
in Australia? Anyone listening to the howls of
these undisciplined small boys, Kelly and John-
son, would imagine that it was a cannibal Standing
Order from some Parliament in the sands at the
back of Timbuctoo.
In order to lend support to the mock pro-
test of the Opposition against the proposal that
there should be in the Australian Parliament what
there is in almost every other Parliament the
closure—-Yes-No Reid haughtily handed to the
Speaker his resignation from the Standing Orders
Committee. As the fatted personage only attended
one meeting of the committee in five years, what
does it matter whether he resigns or not ?
Merely for record purposes, and inciden-
tally perhaps to illustrate the methods of a
Government that is a whale for reform, a return
should be called for of the fees paid to barristers
and solicitors since Joseph became Premier of
N.S.W. Lyne and See were both called upon to
supply information of this sort as regards their
Premierships. From 1899 to 1904 some £34,000
was thus dispensed, and if rumor may be trusted
the Joseph Government is no less bountiful in
legal tips. The return should, as in former cases,
specify names and dates.
Private Enterprise is quite willing and
able to do all that is necessary in supplying land
for closer settlement, says the N.S.W. Tory
crowd. How Private Enterprise proposes to do
it was shown up at Bungalow, on the North
Coast, the other day. An estate, cut up into
30 farms, was offered to 400 people, representing
nearly all the States, and not one farm was sold,
though as much as £24105. per acre was offered for
improved land and £l7 for scrub land. Go on the
scrub, young man—scrub at £2O an acre, and
without anything in the way of a State Land
Bank to help you through !
“ Itan ” writes :
The great majority of the Labor members in the
Bananaland Assembly freely admit that the time lias
come for the formation of a Democratic party, whose aim
would be to continue their work, but by the employment
of different methods. The Morgan Government has done
good service, but it w uld be strengthened if its sup-
porters were untrammelled by unions, which are princi-
pally guided by leaders who begin to think that their
turn is a long time coming. If a Democratic party were
organised now, the fight would be easier when the next
general election comes round. If things remain as they
are, and the Parliamentary Labor party refuses to sign
the Convention platform, there will he serious splits,
which must result in Tory candidates securing seats with
minority votes. As it is just now, there are four irreeon-
cileable Laborists of the Workkr crowd who sit behind
the Government and exhibit greater bitterness towards it
than even Philp and Leahy do in Opposition, and that is
saying a good deal.
An Australian Parliament ary testimonial to
fisherman Ferrier, the hero of the Warrnambool
wreck, remarks
We all feel that your conduct was worthy of the best
deeds done by British sailors in the past, and are proud
to know that Australia can produce such as you.
To this “Joseph Cook, deputy-leader of the
Opposition,’’ solemnly puts his name. But when
it comes to a question of helping Australia to
produce and find work for such as Ferrier by
vetoing the Asiatic seaman and by protecting the
Australian fisherman from cheap tinned foreign
importations, then Joseph Cook’s pride evapor-
ates, and his name is not there.
The N.S.W. collection of Freetraders in
the Australian Parliament is an evil minded lot.
The latest slander comes from Kelly, who insinu-
ated in Parliament that the leaders of the Labor
party forced the Arbitration Act into law in
N.S.W. and then turned themselves into lawyers,
with the result that the union funds went into
their pockets by way of legal fees. Kelly knows
that the Labor party has always advocated the
abolition of-lawyers in Arbitration doings.
S. Australia is getting another look-in at
the ways of Private Enterprise. For years past
the railways have been able to make contracts to
buy ice at from 30s. to 355. per 200011). ; this year
the best offer was £2 10s. There are only two
concerns that can supply the quantity required ;
and they mysteriously put up their price to the
State 40 per cent, simultaneously. It was a co-
incidence, of course; but the coincidence has led
the Government to look up ice-making machinery
of its own. It is just as well to sit behind a gun
when you have to argue with coincidences that
can jump 40 per cent, at one spring.
It was only after the Freetrade Opposition
in the House of Representatives had spent 30
hours discussing a proposal that “the Chairman
should leave the chair” that the affable Deakin
could stand it no longer, and proposed a new-
standing order for cutting short useless debate.
And it was time. The Opposition, after it had
settled about the chair, w ould probably have spent
a similar period discussing whether the Chairman
should leave the table, and whether he should take
the oil-cloth with him when he went away, and it
was ready for a w-eek’s frantic debate as to whether
he should embezzle the front steps or not.
The bell-toppered, smooth-vested Waxcel-
lency Madden, of Victoria, when recently laying
the foundation-stone of a new wing of S. Melbourne
College, said : “ This stone is well and truly laid
—but not by union labor” ! Union labor, for-
sooth ! The immaculate Chief Justice belongs to
the closest trade union in the Commonwealth a
union which restricts the number of apprentices
according to the number of journeymen, which
allows no “improvers” whatsoever, which fixes
and compels payment of its high fees for member-
ship and its equally high wages, and w-hich abso-
lutely prohibits the non-unionist—even the union-
ist from abroad—from practising his trade till he
has joined the union. Not by union labor ! O
Lord !
Queensland has been paying interest for
just 19 years on the cost of enough steel rails to
build 50 miles of road. The rusty stack is lying
at Croydon, from which
centre it was proposed to
extend the line to Clon-
curry, and a sum of £500,000
was voted by Parliament
for the work —19 years ago.
But a profligate Govern-
ment spent the cash on
something else, or lost it,
or lent it, or drank it, and
let the rails lie. The idea
then was to build a trans-
continental line from the
Gulf to strike the Central
system, and thus link the
north with Rockhampton
and afterwards with Bris-
bane. It is now suggested
that, instead of building
the line from Richmond to
Cloncurry, it should go
from Cloncurry to Winton,
and then on to Longreach,
which would connect Clon-
curry with Townsville and
Rockhampton trunk lines.
Then eventually the line
could be extended to Nor-
rnanton, or else through
the Georgina belt towards
Port Darwin. By joining
Charleville with Long-
reach, the link would be
complete with the N.S.W.
system, excepting the com-
paratively short stretch
between Cunnamulla and
Collarendabri. When Queensland can again afford
to look ahead, it will probablv stop the awful
accumulation of interest on that heap of steel rails
at Croydon to begin with.
Ex-Governor Jersey is regarded with
grave alarm in right-thinking cirdes. He persis-
tently refuses to have his leg pulled y
Stinking Fish party, and was heretical enough to
say that Australia is a fine place to live m-this to
a virulently Tory assemblage at a Melbourne gaud
mayor's dinner. Jersey ridicules the idea that
England is all the time telling itself what a bad
state Australia is in, and has the temerity to
assert that stories of English wails about Au -
tralian legislation are greatly exaggerated. He
points out that opinions cabled out at length to
Australia are frequently given by persons who
excite just about as much respect m England as
the phrenologist in the Domain does in Australia.
Jersey even went so far as to smile when the Six
Hatters were mentioned, and any man who would
smile at such a sacred subject is altogether outside
the pale of humanity.
I saw a workman’s grave to-day.
The German tombstone said the dead
Was Jones, a smith who'd passed away
For want of work, and need of bread,
’Twas fenced with Yankee rails. In jest
Where they had wrote of his release—
“ Here let the weary toiler rest! ”
I wrote beneath : “ In Fiscal Peace."
SNELI.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY Sc CO.,
324 CEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and REST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.—The
experience of millions of people in all quarters of
the habitable globe, during the last quarter of a
century, has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos
as the best and safest natural aperient. Invalu-
able to diners-out.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps :
barley and the curative
Holland. Take a little
ing and night to keep
kidneys in good order.
A pure extract of selected
Juniper berry distilled in
Wolfe’s Schnapps morn-
the stomach, bowels and
yt v r] th* business.*
artificial
LIMBS,^
We niaKe them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
‘ able prices. . , T •
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
denyer brothers,
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St).
281
Also at Melbourne.


FEET EASY?
To enjoy life —to give the best possible attention to your business —you MUST have
your feet in comfortable Boots. It's no use trifling with this question and permitting a pair
of badly-fitting Boots to pointedly and unpleasantly draw your attention to the wrong you
are doing your feet.
The Boot which this picture represents is SPECIALLY
CONSTRUCTED of the finest Vici-Kid leather, with the
DISTINCT OBJECT of AFFORDING the MOST COM-
FORT POSSIBLE to very tender feet. The aim has been
to combine SOFTNESS and THOROUGH PLIABILITY
of both Uppers and Soles with the strength necessary
for good wear.
In fine Black Vici-Ivid, whole
goloshed, made in pointed, med.
and broad toes
OR
25-
Post and Duty Free all
over the Commonwealth,
including West Aust. - -
26/-
IF YOU DON’T
send for a pair of these Boots we botl
lose money, and you lose foot
comfort.
All our Boots are as
good as gold. Send
for our Illustrated
Price List-
Post Free.
YOU CAN RELY
ON A GOOD FIT.
WE RETURN
MONEY IF
YOU ARE NOT
PERFECTLY
SATISFIED.
395 George St.
CALLAGHAN & SON
A MOST EFFECTIVE * *
HOLIDAY CAMERA
COSTS LITTLE. DOES EXCELLENT WORK.
The Popular Poco A takes' full size Has fine Achro-
matic lens, aut. shutter, two stops, swivel view-finder, tripod
sockets, removable back. Opens in a second, simple and certain
in use. Price complete, with slide and pneumatic release,
30s. Net.
Baker & Rouse Proprietary, fe* d -
SYDNEY, fIELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
MALTHOID DAMPCOURSE
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS
THE WEIGHT
of the highest building in Sydney is
about eight tons per square foot on the
foundations. You needn’t take our
word for it, we can show you plenty
OF EVIDENCE
that Malthoid Dampcourse will not
squeeze out under a weight of 25 tons.
It is not affected by 1 me or cement,
and is absolutely waterproof.
“Ifit is not seem I v d-« it not ; if it is not true, speak it not —Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.
Adst. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic.
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENCKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill. N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
Bannockburn Estate, Invereil.
IMPROVED LANDS.
“ THE BEST PIECE OF COUNTRY IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR MIXED FARMING,"
So says the Special Commissioner, Sydney Morning Herald.
15 FARMS, also Homestead Block of 2500 Acres
which will be Subdivided to Suit Purchasers.
SMALL DEPOSIT. LOW RATE OF INTEREST. TEN YEARS FOR PA YMENT
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet and Lithograph, which will show Prices, to
Bannockburn Estate, Ltd., 45 Hunter St., Sydney.
COMMISSION PAID TO ANY SELLING- AGENTS.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited
Merchant Drapers and Tailors, importers,
Manufacturers and Retailers,
FOR THE CRICKET GROUND. —Our Prices for Cricketing- Clothes are in accordance with our usual Low
Scale of Prices. Going through the subjoined items it will be seen that AN OUTFIT guaranteed to Look
Well and Wear Well can be had of our Clothing Department FOR ONE GUINEA.
Hats. —WHITE DRILL, Is 3d, Is 6d, Is lid, 2s 6d ; with Specially Wide Brim, 2s 3d each. ROOT PANAMA,
Unbleached, 3s lid : Bleached, 5s 6d each.
Caps.— Cream Serge CLOTH, Celluloid Peak, Is 6d each. SHOWER-PROOF and TWEED, Is, Is 6d each.
Belts.— Boys’ and Youths’, Elastic or Leather, 9d each. Men’s, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d, 2s each.
Shirts. —ln Plain WHITE and FANCY Shirtings, with Collar and Pocket, 1/11, 2/6, 2/11, 3/6, 3/11, 4/6 each.
Trousers.— Sizes 3to 7, White FLANNEL, 14s 6d per pair. Made to Measure, 16s 6d per pair. White and
Brown DRILL, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 83 6d per pair.
Sac Coats. —Sizes 3 to 7, Striped Flannel, 10s 6d each.
The Big Block, Edward & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane, Queensland
And at MARYBOROUGH, Q., MURWILLUMBAH, N.S.W., and 27 MILTON STREET, LONDON.
Assurance Company of London
HI Fill $l., SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers), william n . fabm^V^
sfefJPiS FOB
che Underwriters’ fire extinguisher
...COMBINING...
SIMPLICITY, QUICK ACTION, HANDY SIZE.
Highly Concentrated Extinguishing Power.
Long Distance Throw and Certainty of Action.
The most Efficient and Reliable Hand Fire Ex-
tinguisher ever produced.
Single Machine - £3 10s.
Agent—P. A. HOWARD, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
:
BEAUTIFUL
(as illustration) TOUPES
2M- Natural Wavy Hair*
TRANSFORMATIONS, from 42/ -
PLAITS and SWITCHES OF HAIR
from 5/6.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St*, SYDNEY*
LAUGH AND
GROW FAT!
THE ORIGINAL DUPLEX LAUGHING CAMERA.
'T'HIS wonderful invention is so constructed that, on being held up to the
* eyes, the most grotesque and absurd scenes are witnessed. The
arrangement of the two lenses and the reflecting prisms is so ingenious
that everything becomes changed. Fat people look fatter and shorter ;
thin people appear stout; horses and vehicles appear tremendous length.
Watch the movements of your best friend, and your sides will split with
laughter. It is very well and strongly made, and cannot get out of order.
Send now for one and you’ll never be without it. Price only 1/2 posted.
The Disappearing Seed Trick.
This is one of the best and most popular tricks ever invented. It consist*,
of a nicely painted wooden Bell, Casket, and a neat little Bag of Seed, First
let the andience examine everything, then fill the Casket with the Seed.
Place a handkerchief over the Bell and another over the Casket containing’
the Seed. Tap them both, and on lifting the handkerchiefs, to the amaze>
. naent of everybody, the seed has vanished from the Casket and will be found,
under the Bell. The trick can be performed by anybody. Nothing better anywhere for amusing your friends’,,
or for evening entertainments or parties. The Trick, with full directions, will be posted anywhere, properly
packed, an receipt of 2/6. A SMITH & CO., 6 Moore Street, SYDNEY ,


SPORTING NOTIONS.
On Tuesday, last week, somewhere about 30
sportsmen left Melbourne for Sydney on £14,000 worth of
automobiles and motor bikes in the great Reliability Test,
organised by the big Dunlop Rubber Co. On Saturday
last 14 of them came straggling into Sydney. Some
roared in at 45 miles an hour, others just wheezed, and
one broke down 50yd. from the finishing tape owing to
lack of fuel and the presence of a stray foot
passenger in front of the car. All along the
road public interest was at high-water mark.
After they got into N.S.W. the travellers were
astonished to see the change in the character of the
country. In Victoria they were never out of sight of
farms, and towns were met with every few miles. In
N.S.W. rabbits and an empty land stared them in the
face. All through N.S.W. the course was marked by dead
rabbits and iguanas. The tootling cars, rushing along at
45 miles an hour, paralysed the rabbits, and so interested
the “ goanners ” that they sat up and stared with dull,
conservative eyes on the apparitions till they were
crushed under the wheels.
« * * *
Although it was understood that the Melbourne-
Sydney motor competition was a reliability test and not a
speed race, the various heavy cars put up a tremendous
rush for first place. George Hobbs, on the high-powered
Mercedes, went off with a bound, and Stevens immedi-
ately went after him. Then Foster’s huge Talbot set off
in pursuit of both. This was the mightiest car of the
field, a huge 35-50 h.p. machine, capable of getting up to
anything between 60 and 70 miles an hour if anyone was
mad enough to force it over a Thomas Bent road. Last
time the car was seen in motion the passengers were
hanging on to the sides, and the great object was pro-
gressing by a series of kangaroo-like jumps over the awful
Victorian roads at a speed which seemed to make cer-
tain that the field would soon be collared. Then a water-
jacket burst, a cylinder cracked, and the big Talbot was
eut of the game. Hobbs flew on, and finished ahead of
everything. The second day saw Stevens break away,
and while he was travelling at over 40 miles an
hour to keep) ahead of Hobbs, two railway gates suddenly
heaved up in front of him. There was hardly time
to think, let alone stop, and through them he went.
They splintered as though they had been made of glass,
and the car, with its front axle only slightly bent, flew on
to keep ahead of Hobbs. It did. Later on Liddle in his
Panhard just grazed the front of a train as he roared over
the same crossing, leaving his paint on the cow-catcher.
That day ended with Stevens first home. The third day
Stevens, whose velocity closed gates could not allay, was
brought to a peremptory stop by a punctured tyre, and
Hobbs beat him by lhr. 9£min. The fourth day Stevens was
right out of it, the Mercedes beating him by 75min. Over
the last 129 miles Hobbs turned on all his power and
went for his life on the high gear over hilts and all,
including the Razorback, in 4hr. 9min. When Hobbs
arrived at Enfield, the first question he asked while
he got his breath was, “Where’s Stevens?” -Twenty
minutes later a cloud of dust and a clatter announced
that Stevens was second home. All this was very ex-
citing, but ridiculously dangerous.
* « » •
The performance of the motor-bikes in the test
was a really wonderful revelation of what the little
machines can do when properly handled. As far as speed
goes they were equal to the fastest of the cars, and B.
James, on his Minerva, actually raced the flying Mercedes,
and held his own till he smashed into one of the V-shaped
watercourses which are the curse of N.S.W. roads.
The speed was something in the neighborhood of 40 miles
an hour, and the rider was hurled yards, while the
machine sprang up like an india-rubber acrobat. Even
after that James was able to continue his journey,
although the accident put him out of the Test, and left
the Rand Cup almost a gift for his brother, E. James.
Both these men are as hard as nails, and have an utter
contempt for danger. They are pastoralists, and amuse
themselves by chasing kangaroos on their motor-bikes,
and shooting them at close quarters with revolvers while
racing across grass country on the machines. A man who
goes out and practises round a paved park has no chance
in a rough road contest against that sort of rider.
• * * *
The test was disastrous as regards the reliability
of the imported car on Australian roads. With the ex-
ception of Captain Tarrant’s Australian-made car, every
machine that competed arrived with bent axles. t English
and French makers having simply no idea of what sort of
roads can be met with in Australia, especially where the
highways are under the care of Victorian shire councils.
Of the cars that started over 50 per cent, were knocked
out by breaks-down and accidents. Some of the smashes
were due to careless driving and general recklessness,
but all motorists are agreed on the point that the
imported cars are unsuitable for Australian roads, and
that we require a specially-designed and built car for our
own use. Evidently, if Australians desire to rush round
the country in motor cars with a reasonable hope of
getting back without the aid of the despised moke, they
will have to settle down to make their own vehicles, as
they did to make their tyres. The only all-Aus-
tralian-made car in the contest was the 8-h.p.
one driven tjy Captain Tarrant, last year’s winner.
It was made in his own workshop to his own
design, and the workmen were still engaged on
it while the horns of the competitors were tooting
on their way to the starting- place. It ran straight out of
the workshop to take part in a 570-mile reliability contest
without any previous test or trial whatever. It got over
the distance in 30hr.~4min. 30sec. without any mishap or
breakdown, the only delay being due to a punctured tyre.
Altogether, Australian industry showed up very well;
of the seven cars that have to take part in the run-off, six
were fitted with Australian-made tyres.
* * * *
Walter Rutt, the German cyclist who was here
last year under special permit from Kaiser Bill himself,
has arrived at Fremantle, on his way to annex the
Summer Wheel Race, Sydney Thousand, and the Austral
jf he reaches Melbourne in time to get into condition.
Rutt was the handsomest cyclist on the track last year,
although his legs were not in it with the beautiful pale
understandings of Ellegaard. He brings with him the
Flying- Jew, Henry Mqyer, the man who has twice run
third in the world’s championship final. Also, he won
the <Jrand Prix de Paris—the blue ribbon cycle race of
Europe. Meyer met and defeated George Farley when
the Australian champion was in Paris, and has the
reputation of being able to stay as well as sprint. Also,
he is understood to be a wheelist who takes risks, and
raises dizzy streaks of speed per medium of the dope.
Neither of these riders will strike the £6 ss. minimum
appearance money, as they are specially engaged.
• « * *
Melbourne Bicycle Club is going to distribute
£ll6B prize money at the Austral Wheel Race meeting
this year. The field will comprise 14 scratch races and
10 handicaps. The Austral itself will carry £5OO for the
first, £lOO for the second, and £2O for the third, while the
winners of the semi-finals will divide £3O among them.
The classic race will remain a two-mile event, and be run
on the asphalt track at Melbourne Exhibition. The
meeting will start on December 2nd, and end on the 16th
* # * *
The calm thoroughness of Ma'oriland bikist
brothers Arnst is disconcerting. At Mudgee (N.S.W.)
King’s Birthday Sports, “ Jack ” collared the big wheel
race, then “Dick” scooped the five-mile scratch race,
whilst brother “ Jack ” got his wind by pocketing eight lap
prizes in the same event. Then “Dick” sort of relaxed
himself by entering and winning both the “putting the
shot” and “throwing the hammer” events. With
Mudgee over £5O the poorer, the brothers Arnst departed
for Melbourne Austral meeting.
E. JAMES, Winner of the Rand Cup for Motor.
Cycles in the Dunlop Reliability Test.
The Bulletin has before it a typed letter,
which purports to have been issued by Mr. P. G. Forbes,
of No. 11, first floor, Temperance and General Building's,
Little Collins-street, Melbourne. It sets forth that Mr.
F. G. Forbes has discovered a system of betting which is
distinguished by its “mathematical accuracy” and its
“surprising simplicity," Under it the backer will never
get on to a scratched horse, he need only have one invest-
ment on a race, and the average returns will be five wins
for one loss. In the circular, which is addressed to a
gentleman (apparently a complete stranger; at Boggabri
(N.S.W.), Mr. F. G. Forbes offers to sell the secret for £l,
and to invest any money the Boggabri gentleman likes to
send, taking only 10 per cent, commission for himself.
Now, why this amazing generosity to a gentleman at
Boggabri ? There is only a certain amount of money
in the ring, and if 20 energetic people get on to a
system whereby they can win five times out of every six
they will break it hopelessly. Even one man, with such
a system, and playing up his winnings manfully, would
break the ring, for there seems to be no limit to the
amount of the investment (in his overflowing desire to
do the square thing by the gentleman at Boggabri Mr.
F. G. Forbes offers to operate with any investment he
likes to send). Then the goose that deposited the golden
egg will be dead, and even if all the 20 people paid
Mr. F. G. Forbes, of the Temperance and General
Building (No. 11 first floor), instead of some of them
getting the secret at second hand from some incautious
individual (say a gentleman at Boggabri) who had
already bought it, the inventor would only have made
£2O. And out of that he must pay stamps, advertising,
and the rent of the office in the Temperance and General
Building (No. 11 first floor). This is an awful throw-
ing away of money on his part. Why doesn’t he
shut up his office (No. 11, first floor) and save the rent,
and also save the stamps that he wastes on correspond-
ence with gentlemen at Boggabri, and bet with the money
on his own infallible system, and break the ring himself,
and retire on the proceeds? If anybody at Boggabri took
advantage of the generosity of Mr. F. G. Forbes it would
be little short of. robbery.
*'•*#*
A smart piece of work was done in Melbourne
onOup night. The race wasn’t over till 3.35, yet by 10
o’clock next morning fancy-goods shops in the city and
suburbs were selling picture post-cards showing the finish
of the race. Pity the energy wasn’t spent on a worthier
subject.
* * * *
“ Woodki ” : Blue Spec’s win is another example
of the frequent success of the averaging of weights
system, noticed in The Bulletin last Oup time. The
average worked out to Bst. lib., and Blue Spec at Bst. was
the nearest thereto. Demas (Bst. 31b.) in the Hotham
Handicap was another.
* * * *
In the Bankruptcy Court last week James
Duncan threw the light of revelation on Sydney pony-
racing clubs. James declared that some of “ the clubs
often entered his ponies without his knowledge or con-
sent, and that it was quite usual when he had won a
prize and thought he owed the club a fiver to be informed
that he was indebted £lO and over.” He also declared
with bitterness that when a pony won a few prizes the
weight was made so heavy that to get it off it was neces-
sary to let the ponies get right out of condition. In fact,
Duncan generally intimated that the poor owner was
much worse off than the miserable punter. But the clubs
are prosperous 1
* # * *
For many a long year Dame Fortune has smiled
upon the giant firm of Anthony Hordern and Sons. Once
in a while, too, she remembers the employees of the firm.
Charles Stidwell, a salesman in Hordern’s dress depart-
ment, drew Blue Spec in the big sweep on Melbourne Cup
and in exchange for a modest 10s. received £11,400. Stid-
well, who has been in Australia about five years, is a native
of Devonshire and intends returning temporarily to the
Cold Land. Some few years ago another assistant, named
Limbert, drew a big prize when Tarcoola won the Cup.
The good luck of these two men ,is quite eclipsed by the
remarkable fortune that came to a third employee. In
the early nineties a young man employed as a storeman
left the firm and went to Westralia and dabbled in mining.
He found himself in time the possessor of a quarter of a
million.
*• * w *
“Adelaide”: S.A. never had a bigger chance
(on paper) of beating Victoria at cricket than at the late
meeting. The Melbourne men were mostly experiments,
but four of the old hands won the match. Saunders,
Collins and Armstrong took the whole 20 wickets ; then, i
the S. A. total being 378 in two attempts, Armstrong and:
M'Alister together put up 322 in one 1 Local fielding was;
awful; 14 missed chances are recorded. Newland at the
wicket had about half of these. Local clamor demands the
retirement of Hack, who loses in the field whatever he
may make with the bat; and of Coombe, the stylish
bowler whom all good judges like, but who never gets
wickets. Old Jack Reedman (who has been playing since
1888) took four Victorian wickets. Roy Hill, making a
first appearance, bowled Ransford and Warne, and no
one else took more than one. Carkeek shaped very well
at the wickets for Victoria, and is a free, if ugly, left-
handed bat. Of the other new men, Christian never
looked like taking wickets, or Horan like making runs. ;
N.S. W. ought to have a soft thing for the Shield this year.
* • * *
A feature of Sydney’s grade cricket, on Satur-
day, was the comparatively rotten start made by North
Sydney against Gordon, which used once to be a part of
itself. Even Alphabetical White managed to paste only
16 opposite his name, and the side’s top score was a
miserable 38 by N. Deane. Gordon seemed to have in
M'Cartne.v a bowler of some deadliness—he took six for
36 ; which is unusual when North Sydney is at the sticks.
The whole side vanished for 136, and at the drawing of
the stumps Gordon had one wicket down for 32.
A certain amount of mild interest attached to
Saturday’s cricket, as several of the Australian XI.
screwed their courage up to the sticking point and ven-
tured to take a hand. Cotter swung the willow for the
Glebe, but was bowled by Kerim, the Philistine—that is
the Syrian—when he had made only 17. For the same
side Newell slogged 117 before the same dusky bowler
with the nose clean bowled him. E. R. Bubb had the
misfortune to get stumped when his century was only
four runs away. Altogether, Glebe’s struggle with Red-
fern was the bright particular match of the day, the
Abattoirs putting 365 to their credit for the loss of nine
wickets. The Asiatic, Kerim, was Redfern’s best bowler,
and in spite of the skill with which he makes the ball
break either way at choice, he could do no better than
five for 126 runs.
The only other century of the afternoon was
Blaxland’s 105 for Balmain against Central Cuml riand.
Whitting and Robson made 55 and 40. Nevertheless
Central Cumberland’s bowlers managed to make good
averages, Cronin taking three for 32 and Cranney five for
60. It was a dull, grey afternoon, with rain falling; the
light failed much sooner than usual, and the term of play
was considerably shortened.
* * * *
So far this season, Victorian cricket has been of
the common or garden—the back garden—variety. The
ten association and the six league clubs now play all in
one tourney for the alleged premiership ; but as they are
still merely clubs, not districts or electorates, they excite
as much interest as a cat-fight. The third round closed
on Monday (King’s birthday), leaving East Melbourne a
trifle ahead of Melbourne and North. Two rounds passed
without a single batsman achieving a century, but the
third saw Gerber (Carlton) make 104, Mitchell (Fitzroy)
104, and Peryman (Melb.) 132. Notwithstanding low
scores all round, no star bowlers have risen ; the same old
trundlers of past seasons vary from moderate to good.
Jones, of North Melbourne, improves his wicket-keeping,
and bids well for inter-State, if not international, con-
tests. As to attendances —well, Tarrant, of Fitzroy, com-
piled a whole six runs on Saturday, Nov. 11th, in 70
minutes, and that sort of thing wearies spectators. Cer-
tainly he put on 55 in the next 70 minutes, but the few
enthusiasts present had gone home before then. Mean-
while, junior cricket, in which the teams genuinely repre-
sent districts, though not perhaps so scientific, draws
five times the crowds.
* * * *
Playing for Fort-street against Leichhardt, at
Petersham (Sydney), t’other day, a youngster named C.
Landon put up the respectable total of 369. He played
faultlessly till past the second century, when he gave a
chance, which, being declined, he didn’t repeat. This is
the second highest score ever knocked together in N.S.W.,
the record being held by schoolboy O. H. Dean, who last
year scored 412 for Sydney Grammar School against
Newington College.
*■* * *
Warne, the Victorian batsman, playing against
the weak South Australian bowling, succeeded in amassing
nine runs in 80 minutes before the luncheon adjournment,
and four of those were in one hit. The presence of such
a depressing person in representative cricket ought to be
severely discouraged. He resembles a funeral on a wet
day.
* # * *
It was the leg-breaks of G. L. Garnsey that
demoralised the Bananaland batsmen in the recent inter-
state match. The Bur wood bowler took in all 11 wickets
for 172 runs off 249 balls.
* * * *
The N.S.W. team to battle for the Sheffield
Shield against Victoria and South Australia will have
quite a new and' shiny aspect about it. Most of the
just-returned XI. haven’t recovered sufficiently from the
shock of England’s drubbing, and of those who are
available it isn’t certain whether they can get a place in
the team. The splendid batting and bowling of the
N.S.W. team against Bananaland make it reasonable to
expect that the team to go south will not differ very
much from the one which went north. Since the mem-
bers of the Australian XI. have just returned from a
heavy tour, the N.S.W. selection committee could do
much worse than leave them out, and give some other
players a chance.
* * * #
G. H. Bailey, who went to England as Tas-
manian representative in the first white Australian
Eleven, is still an active player, and a Saturday or two
ago made 86 (not out) at Hobart. *
* * * *
N.S.W. Rowing As.-:o:ation has appointed a
committee of three to secui. a team to represent N.S.W.
on the Swan River at the ii,‘.er-State meeting between
April and May next year. Strange that although Wes-
tralia can raise a team for Syd. ey, it was at first seriously
argued that Sydney could no: possibly send a crew such
a long distance.
* * * *
It is now generally understood that instead of
there being anything in the shape of “gate” to divide
between Ford and Towns, who recently rowed on the
Hunter River, there is more likely to be a deficit, which
someone will have to pay. The Raymond Terrace course
may be a beauty to row over, but as Peter Amos said,
“ There’s no money in it 1 ”
* * * *
George Towns is still hoping against hope to
secure another match with Stanbury, and his £25 deposit
patiently awaits covering. But the big man is like
Saturn, who said nothing and went on making oysters
for another thousand years.
* * » *
The only important swimming item of the week
was the lowering by the East Sydney Club of its own
500 yd. flying squadron record of smin. 6sec. by 1 2-ssec.
■* * * *
Judging by the boom in the press of that
country, Annette Kellermann will strike a wave of
welcome and enthusiasm when she visits the States —if
'she does it right away before the water goes off the boil,
so to "speak. The U.S.A. is a place where the kettle stops
singing verv suddenly at times.
** * * *
Australia’s champion swimmer was to have
arrived in Sydney yesterday (Wednesday) morning. In
all probability the papers will be flooded with portraits of
him in his swimming costume. This will be a grave
mistake. Everybody has seen Kieran with his clothes
off. What the public really wants to know is what Kieran
looks like with his clothes on, or if he ever wears clothes
at all ?
V * * ■*
There was fun galore in Port Jackson at Sydney
Sailing Club’s race. Fifteen started, Keriki being the
scratch boat. At the very start the boats were bumping,
and at all the rounding marks they crowded one another
“.on to the rails” in a fearsome fashion. Australian was
rushed along by her crew in a startling manner, and was
going through the fleet like water through a sieve when
Arawa put her about and forced her to lose time. Squar-
ing away round the lightship, Australian set spinnaker,
ballooner and ringtail, and with ’em all on ran through
the crowd into second place. At the rounding mark
Mona got her spinnaker overboard, Donnelly’s blew off
skyward, and the extras of half the fleet showed signs of
taking charge. Then the boats collided and got all tied
up together, and there was struggling and “ langwidge.”
Australian and Alert sailed out of the jumble and
finished in that order, with the scratch boat, Keriki,
third.
* *
*
Sydney’s Prince Alfred Yacht Club had an
ocean race on Saturday. Five miles E.N.-E. from Sydney
Heads a mark had been put down, and the prize for
getting first round that and home again was the Petrel
Cup, a bauble presented by Commodore Dempster, to be
won three times before any man can put it in his cup-
board and ask you to have a drink out of “ My Cup.” The
steamer Cobar, which followed the race, was fairly
crowded, and when the Heads were passed 'and the long,
jobbly roll began to state its views on current events
there was woe for the passengers. Seven started, and
before reaching the Heads the limit boat, Kukuburra,
was passed by Scotia, Cooya, and Magic. On the thrash
to the mark all interest centred on Magic and Heather,
which strove hard to outpoint one another. Magic
rounded 22 seconds ahead of Heather. Behind came
Scotia, Fleetwing, Cooya, and Culwulla. As the rain
came down the breeze failed, and the sail home was slow.
Fleetwing moved well in the light wind, passing Scotia
and Heather, but Magic dipped on ahead and won by
4min. 9sec. In such a long race, and an ocean race at
that, this was very close indeed.
Said that there are doings in connection with
open boat sailing on Sydney Harbor which would make a
pony owner blush. Anyhow, quite recently the public on
the steamer that followed the race made a loud demonstra-
tion against one crew, and invited it to come on board and
‘ see the mess we’ll make of you.” The crew didn’t and
it was gravely proposed by one angry backer who had lost
his money, to attend next week’s race armed with road
metal. The motion was not carried, but there was alack
of heartiness in its condemnation which augurs ill for that
crew if it meets any of its friends on a lonely road on a
dark night. Quite a number of other things have
happened lately to show that the control of the sport is
very lax. ,
« * • *
Just now a small army of professional athletes
are working round the continent on a time-table that will
land them in Kalgoorlie what time “the Hundred” is
competed for. Some of them, like Postle, the Queens-
land crack, are making exes, on the way. Postle
dropped in on Stawell (Vic.) last week and mopped up
130 yd. and 440 yd. events, and departed with a few
pounds to help him on his road.
* * * *
The Australasian Amateur Athletic Conference
has decided to impose a fine of £5 on any association not
represented at an Australasian championship meeting,
the State association controlling the meeting to pocket
the fines. While the conference was about it, why wasn’t
the fine made sufficiently heavy to do some good? In
many cases it will be found much cheaper to pay the £5
than make the journey.
* * * *
Victorian Athletic League has determinedly set
its face against professional peds. raiding the country
under assumed names. Any pro. caught racing at any
meeting urtder an alias will be remorselessly wiped out.
There’s justa chance that pedestrianism, if it is kept clean,
may revive in Australia ; and the League is at least trying
to keep it clean.
* * * *
J. R. Costigan and A. E. Kelly recently fought
a prize fight at New Haven (U.S.A.). Costigan was
knocked out, and is now suing Kelly for $5OOO damages
for assault. This is a new aspect of the noble art.
* * * *
The Bob Eraser versus Jack Willis glove contest
at Queen’s Hall, Melbourne, the other night, was a nice,
neat, gentlemanly encounter so far as it went, and it went
13 rounds, with Bob on top all the Way. Willis, who is a
deft middle-weight, had just come out of the West, and
his cqndition was a trifle sloppy, but the chances are that
Fraser would account for him at his best now, as Robert
is a vastly improved fighter, and an artist at just missing
things. He wants power as a hitter, but he can evade
like the oiliest lawyer in politics. In the thirteenth round
Willis decided that a bad hand was a reasonable excuse
for quitting, and he begged to be excused. He had put
up a game fight, and was excused with the greatest good
will. Fraser is a man whom two or three of the best in
his class in Sydney should be inquiring after. He can be
relied upon to make a good fight against anything going.
The scrap at the National Sporting Club
(Sydney) between Bandsman J. Thompson and Arthur
Cripps started quietly enough. There was an air of Potts
Point boxing about it, and Cripps varied the proceedings
with exhibitions of footwork which suggested that at one
time he was connected with the dancing trade. Thompson
started to “ make it willing,” but the wary Cripps dealt
out body blows that had the effect of taking the edge off
Thompson’s appetite for closer acquaintance. The erowd
began to get restless, and men leaned over the shoulders
of those in front and hissed directions as to the exact way
they wanted the other fellow killed and buried. Cripps
took no notice. He was going to play his own game, and
he wanted Thompson to attack him. Thompson, getting
nervous at the talk from the benches, rushed in and tried
to land on the jaw. He reached the middle of the face,
and the blow caused Cripps to miss with a right cross that
might have ended things very suddenly. Two more on
the body caused Cripps to reach for a clinch, instead of
which he caught a right on the jaw, and he bent down
and hit out wiklly at the military man’s commissariat.
Thompson received a sounding blow on the ribs, but
instead of falling as was expected he sprang at Cripps
and rained blows on him. Cripps grazed the bandsman’s
chin with his right, and Thompson stood off quickly,
dealing a nasty one on the mouth as he went. After that
Thompson went slow, and Cripps tried to do the hurri-
cane act without much effect. The tenth saw Cripps
taken by surprise and forced to save himself by clinching
—the bandsman belted him hard for two rounds, but
failed to knock him out. Then his own strength started
to give way, and in the I4th Cripps right-handed him on
the jaw twice in rapid succession, and down went Thomp-
son. He Came up to meet the right once again, and
when the bell went be arose in a daze and was led by
Cripps to the chair. Then the towel soared. It was a
skilful fight, but Thompson did not battle up to his
regular form.
* * * *
Walcott and Yates put up a dreary exhibition
at Sydney Gaiety Club on Saturday night. Yates seemed
to be consumed with a desire to avoid assault and battery,
and apparently did not understand that the audience
wanted to see him hit. His caution was disheartening.
He poked cautious, reconnoitring fists into his enemy’s
face, and the enemy retaliated with s wipes at his jaw and
bashes at his ribs. Yates simply would not try to slay
Walcott, and a weary audience was not sorry when, at the
end of the 7th round, the towel of judicious surrender
was thrown into the ring, after being used to wipe Yates’
face, and Walcott was seen streaking for the pay office.
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by'-all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
MOTHER'S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead ;
On ail hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores,
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6.
KLEESATTEL,
Traralgon, Victoria.
Be Your Own Doctor.
Prescribe Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and
Keep a Bottle in the House.
The doctor is a luxury that thousands and
thousands of people can ill afford. The necessity
of calling one in is considered a calamity in a
DIRECTIONS
ADULTS TWO TO FOUft PILLS
CHILDREN A HALF TO A
WHOLE PILL DISSOLVED
IN SWEETENED WATER.
To betoken before
retiring.
family where they find it
hard to secure the common
necessities of life and make
ends meet. Disease and
sickness are no respecters
of persons. Rich and poor
are subject to all the com-
mon ailments, disorders of
the stomach, liver, kidneys
and blood. In thousands
of homes throughout Aus-
tralasia —in the mansions,
the villa, the cottage, the
camp, the homestead, in
the settler’s home and the
bushman’s hut Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
are the household remedy
for all common complaints.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are purely vegetable,
causing no pain or griping,
and may be taken by the
youngest child or the most delicate woman. They
are an efficient, reliable and safe remedy, placed
on the market at a price within the reach of all.
The pills being sugar-coated, are pleasant to take,
and retain their full medicinal properties. They
are packed in amber-colored bottles —not in cheap
wooden or pasteboard boxes—and are thus aj ways
fresh and clean, impervious to moisture, unaffected
by climatic conditions, and do not deteriorate by
keeping, as all liquid medicines do. They are a
perfect blood-purifier and a positive and per-
manent cure for biliousness, indigestion constipa-
tion, headaches, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, *pimples, boils and blotches,
and for female ailments.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. EESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


TWO GREAT
Panama Specials
iSISI
MURDOCH’S MASTERPIECE, 15/6
3to 4in. brims. Post Free anywhere.
Two great specials in Panamas, of which we
have already sold some hundreds this season.
The good name and reputation of Murdoch’s
stand behind these Panamas and back up
their quality.
We never offered—nor did any other firm
offer—such champion Panamas as these at
such low prices.
8?*
MURDOCH’S MARVEL, 21-
Beautifully fine plait. 3to 4 in. brims.
SIMPLY SEND THE MONEY, and we send
the goods promptly. We pack securely.
We Refund Money in any
case of dissatisfaction.
MURDOCH'S “ »•
Vhere the Good Hats are.”
INSOLVENT ESTATE of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
GUNMAKERS,
Corner of LITTLE COLLINS and ELIZABETH STS. f
MELBOURNE.
mHE TRUSTEES offer to the public, to.clear the whole
-*• of their stock :
10 Double-Barrel Breech-loading' Guns, top
action, walnut stock, with cartridge machine,
cleaners, complete; usual price £5 10s., re-
duced to £2 17 6
6 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib bar and rebounding locks, left
barrel full choke, right modified, pistol grip,
cartridge machines and cleaners, complete ;
usual price £lO, reduced to £5 0 0
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Hammerless
Guns, walnut stock, bar and rebounding locks,
treble wedge fast cross bolt, special No. 1 pistol
grip, choke bore, unequalled for quality, with
cartridge machines, cleaners, complete ; usual
price £l5, reduced to £7 10 0
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, Hammer-
less, steel barrels, complete with cartridge
machines and cleaners ; usual price £3 55.,
reduced to £1 12 6
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, twist bar-
rels, walnut stock ; usual price 255., reduced to £0 12 6
12 Folding Collector’s Guns, 410 gauge—a splen-
did gun for orchards; best steel locks and
barrels ; reduced to £1 10 0
Winchester Pattern Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle, 1904 model, 22 short or long, reduced to £0 13 6
Remington Pattern S.S. Rifles, reduced to .. £0 10 6
40 Baden-Pow'ell Saloon Rifles, fires No. 1
Bulleted Cap £0 6 9
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, Green, ss. 100
~ Smokeless, 7s. 6d. 100
„ 22 Short, lOd. 100
~ 22 Long, Is. Id. 100
SHOT, 2d. lb. ; CAPS, 2d. box ; WADS, 3d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
Send for Catalogue, Post Free. All orders delivered
carriage paid to any State and New Zealand.
Amusements.
“THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
George Darrell’s Original, Romantic, Spectacular Play,
THE BATTLE AND THE BREEZE.
Presented by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FA 10US DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, Headed by the
Talented Australian Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Elvy.’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
hterion theatre, Sydney.
Direction .. .. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EV B UNGS at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON at 2.
L VST TWO NIGHTS of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN REPERTOIRE CO.
in the Two Operas,
Tfii SORCERER and TRIAL BY JURY.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 25, IOLANTHE.
tar" PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ B I essee and Manager .. Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
evenings, at 8. Wednesday afternoon, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S DRAMATIC COMPANY in
Ti.onias Raceward’s World-Renowned Comedy Drama,
SUKTID A. "ST.
Miss TITTELL BRUNE... as SUNDAY.
SAX., NOV. 25, THE SECOND MRS. TANQUERAY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Amusements.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING,
MISS LILY DAMPIER
IN
THE POSTMISTRESS OF THE CZAR.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sale at White Rose, Pitt-street.
I V O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mii. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of JACKSON FAMILY, Leading- Musicians.
LE ROY, TALMA, BOSCO, World’s Monarcbs of Magic,
Greatest Illusionists on Earth.
Enthusiastic Reception of Mr. ARTHUR ALBERT.
Splendid Success of CRIMMONS and GORE.
Everybody’s Favorite Comedian, MR. TOM DAWSON.
Mr. ' WALTER KEEN. KELLY and AGNES.
MAUD FANING. FRIEDA NIEMANN. PEARL LOVELL.
G. BENTLEY. A. ELLIOTT. E. WISEMAN.
P E RA H O U SE, MELBOURN E.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
PAYEN and LUCIE, L’Enigmatique Pierrot Gymnaste.
LES BRUNIN, Billiardistes Modernes.
POST MASON, Operatic Baritone Vocalist.
HILL and WHITAKER, Coon Singers, Banjo and Harp
Duettists.
GRAHAM and DENT, Comedy Sketch Artists.
FRED BLUETT, Comedian.
RYDER SLONE, Vocal Character Comedian.
BOY GLEN, Juvenile Raconteur.
Plan at Allan’s. jJ@* PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
New theatre " royal, Melbourne.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE .BETTING BOOK.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 25,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Stirring Spectacle of Up-to-Date Naval Interest,
WITH FLYING COLORS.
AST PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SUCCESS of
MISS NELLIE STEWART and MR. GEORGE
MUSGROVE’S ENGLISH COMPANY
IN THE BISHOP’S CARRIAGE.
Positively MISS STEWART’S Farewell to Melbourne.
g_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
• 1 Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GIGANTIC SUCCESS of
Mr. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
Messenger’s Fascinating Comic Opera,
VERONIQUE,
For the First Time in Australia.
Plan at Allan’s. MATINEE, WEDNESDAYS.
“ FRIKTCBS COURT.”
MELBOURNE.
General Manager A. L. BAIRD.
OTT ADMISSION 6d ; CHILDREN 3d.
GREAT WATER CHUTE ! ! TOBOGGAN ! I
HELTER-SKELTER I !
And All Latest Sensational Novelties.
In Course of Erection and Shortly to be Opened,
KA TZENJAMMER CASTLE.
Furnished Throughout with—SURPRISES ! !
FITZGERALD’S CIRCUS BUILDING,
MELBOURNE.
CONTINUED SUCCESS and LAST NIGHTS of
ERONI BROTHERS’ GIGANTIC CIRCUS
and MENAGERIE.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
PRICES—3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Glen’s.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS I
Wirt he’ 8 HUQE SHOWS andT77
* * ** LilS Daring Death-Trap Loop.
ALEXANDRA AVENUE.
LOOP, HIPPODROME, ZOO, WILD WEST, CIRCUS
BEASTS’ PARADE, MUSEUM, BUSHMANSHIP.
PP“ 8 Shows for One Ticket—4s., 35., 25., and Is
Hare a Little Racecourse of Your Own
THE POCKET RACE GAME
lots of fun for little money
PERFECTLY FAIR. CANNOT BE RIGGED
Eight Starters Every Time. No Dead Heats
ONLY
S/6
Carriage
Paid.
*VI
EP-
'"THE illustration gives
you a good idea of the
Pocket Race Game. It is
a great improvement upon
all others. There is no
spring to wind ; you merely
press down the stem and
the horses are off. This is
much better than having a
rotating pointer and fixed
horses. Each
horse Is
numbered,
the jockeys
are colored
distinctively
Other race
games have
only seven
horses, pre-
venting the
odd and
even num-
bers com-
peting on
equal terms.
This Game
has eight
horses, you
will notice.
In the cen-
tre of the
dial is a
picture of
a Grand
Stand, and
the Judge’s Box is opposite the Winning Post. The mechan-
ism is very simple and strong ; there is nothing to get out of
order. The picture shows the actual size'; it is just like a
small watch. The face is covered with a bevelled crystal
glass, that is practically unhreakaHe. The Pocket Race
Game is a recent American invention, and it is selling in
the United States by the thousand. We hare secured an early
supply and have made a contract for a very large number, so
that we can sell them at the very low price of Bs. 6d., which
includes the cost of delivery at any address by registered post.
Your Luck is in Your Hand. If yon mention this paper
when ordering, we wilt present with the Race Game abso-
lutely free a Fortune-Telling Chart, by which you may
decipher the past, present and future of any person, includ-
ing your own chances of wealth, fame, happiness, &c. Send
Postal Notes of any State to
The Union Mfg. 8t Agency Go.,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
ERIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARFTTFS
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Couchs
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GIUMAULT & (Jo's INDIAN CIGA&
ETTES. Bold by all ChemitU. UA “
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
E. T. WALSH
Practical Tailor
Expert Cutter
NEW FOUR GUINEA SUITINGS.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS.—Send your name and I will send my Style Catalogue ilWrwtAd
with clever ideas for smart dressers. With this will come Samples of Fabrics and our Home
Measurement Chart and Outfit for taking your own measurements. 6
If you don’t like the Suit when you get it—YOUR MONEY BACK
Experienced Cutter from Bond Street, _
London, employed — ’ NO FACTORY WORK.
359 Georg© Street, SYDNEY.
D?BAGSHAWS
VITAL FORCE TABLETS i
tH elatest
best TOHic.
*
0
&
EASY
TO
CARRY,
EASYtoTAHF
p-
pen Box
"of 50 TABLETS
ff.no/procurdETe foca/fy m/f
nep os fed on rece/pf of E/jfy
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUCCTSYDNE
YeryOldVatted
Liqueur Whisky.
Diatilled&Bottled. by
Kilmarnock .Scotland.
According to the Minister of Defence,
Captain Cresswell, Naval Commandant, estimates
that Australia requires for its coastal protection
“three cruiser destroyers, 1C torpedo boat des-
troyers, and 15 torpedo boats of the first and
second classes.” He proposes that these should
be “procured” at intervals spread over seven
years. It would be a great deal better if they
were built here instead of “procured”; and in
any case the squadron proposed is a darned poor
apology for a fleet where there are all these thou-
sands of miles of coast-lme to defend. If Aus-
tralia were the Isle of Man, or the Isle of Dogs,
this small bawbee way of doing things might be
good enough—but it isn’t. It is also explained
that “it is not intended that our navy should go
out to sea and engage an enemy,” but if the bulk
of the proposed navy happens to be at Sydney,
and the enemy starts wrecking Brisbane or Mel-
bourne, and the navy doesn’t go out to sea and
engage him, what blessed use will the navy be ?
The proposed flotilla is better than nothing, but
the flotilla that is only better than nothing is a
makeshift.
The Bulletin receives a foolish letter,
signed “Alex. Wilson,” in which Alex. Wilson
suggests that N.S.W. State Parliament should
select a site for the Federal capital, and that Earl
Jersey should decide between that site and Dal*
gety, the Australian Parliament’s choice. This
paper doesn’t see what Earl Jersey has to do with
it, nor does it see what the N.S.W. State Parlia
ment has to do with it.- Certainly, if the N.S.W.
State Parliament has a voice in selecting the capi-
tal site, the State Parliaments of Queensland,
Victoria, Tasmania, S.A. and Westralia should
have just as loud a voice, provided the place they
suggest is within the limits fixed by the Constitu-
tion. The capital is to be the Federal capital of
all the States, and they will all contribute to its
cost. Certainly N.S.W. supplies the land, but
then the W. Premier demanded, as a privilege
or a right, that his State should supply the land.
N.S.W. can’t now claim a special right of
selection to compensate it for being deprived
of the land when it truculently demanded that it
should be deprived of the land. The same thing
can’t be at once a right and a privilege and an
injury. If the supplying of the Federal territory
is a privilege, then let State politicians be con-
tent with the privilege they have got, and not go
howling insatiably for more privileges. If it is a
wrong and an injury and a robbery, let them
simply tell the Australian Parliament to fix its
capital in South Queensland, and be done with it.
m
r
o
Great Motor Contest
MELBOUENE to SYDNEY.
Seven Cars scored full points in last
week’s contest-six being fitted with
Dun ifip Tyres
which stand unequalled for hard work
on Australian roads »


INTERSTATE MAIL ORDERS
receive our immediate attention. All Goods are sent Post Free to any
address without the slightest CUSTOMS bother.
Absolute Satisfaction Guaranteed*
A. SAUNDERS.
pet. Gold Two Bar Amethyst and Spray
BRO3CH, Ss 6d.
With Bell and Chain, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CLOTH or HAT BRUSH, Pure Silver,
Long White Bristles,' 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6J, 8s Cd, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, :ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gilt BEDROOM CLOCK,
Enamelled Dial, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
WEDDING RINGS: 9ct. Gold, 7s 6d, 10s
15ct., 15s, 255; 18ot., 20s, 30s, 40s, 50s.
KEEPERS: 9ct. Gold, 7s Gd, 10s, 12s 6d
15et., 17s Cd, 20s; 18et., 22s Gd, 30s,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set Bird and Spray
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open-Face Keyless
WATCHES, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255,
30s, £2. Nurse’s Special, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone Bar BROOCH,
Gold Mounted, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Cherub Design HAIR
Extra Long Fine, White Bristles,
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255.
BRUSH,
15s 6d.
17s 6d,
Oct.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BRACELET, Pure Double Cut 1 iamond
and Two Rubies or Sapphires. £2
15ct. Gold, £4 His.
Save by
Mai!.
You can save
money by mail,
just as if you were
shopping , in person.
Our
Illustrated Catalogue
brings our
immense stock right
to your door.
A Postcard will bring
you a copy.
All Goods sent
Post Free.
m
m
m
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather PURSE, Pure Silver Mounts and
Lock, in Tan or Green, 8s Cd.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s Cd, 10s Cd,
12s 6d, 15s.
Our
Cat alogue
is a valuable guide
to shoppers, and is
to be had for
the asking.
It gives concise
descriptions and
range of prices of
nearly everything
sold by
this establishment.
Write to-day.
We post it Free
anywhere.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-Plated, 25a.
Other Styles, 21s, 30s, 355, 40s, 45s
SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
PIN CHAIN
and
New Zealand
Greenstone
CIIARM, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Ring, Opal,
Ruby or Sapphire,
17s 6d.
15ct. Gold Opal, 30s.
18ct. Gold Opal, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver or Silver-Gilt Amethyst
or Topaz BROuCH, 4s 6d‘
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin TOBACCO POUCH,
Pure Silver Shield,
Best Rubber Lining, 4s 6d
Others, 4s, 5s 6d, 6s 6d,
LADIES!
POST
FREE.
4 e
&
&
LADY'S
SOLID
GOLD
WATCH,
LADY'S
SOLID
GOLD
WATCH,
£3.
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting Key-
less Watch, f-plate, patent adjusted balance,
jewelled, handsomely engraved. Guaran-
teed for 15 years, and kept in repair
for 3 years Free. Price, £3;
others, £3 10s, £4, £5,
£6, £7 10s,
£l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING SET, on Black Base,
comprising Paper Clip, Shaving Brush.
Soap Dish, 255.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 14s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold RING,
Four Pure Diamonds
and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone HEART,
9et. Gold Mounted, 10s 6d.
Others, 8s 6d, 12s Gd, 15s,
17s Gd, 20s.
Bit*
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Lustre Pearl NECKLET,I Filled Pearls,
Silk-Lined Case, and 9ct. Gold Catch, 10s 6d
Large Size, with Knobs, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s.
M W
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
Floral Spray BROOCH,
Fine, Pure White Pearls,
£3 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold RING,
Five Fine Opals,
£2 10s.
Extra Quality
Opals, £3.
ZbQyrWjs
w&fjyM
•ftrMy
A. SAUNDERS.
Three-Bottle Breakfast
CRUET,
Eure Silver-Plated, 15s 6d.
Others, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold S'gnet
RING, 17s 6d, 20s.
Bloodstone, 22s 6d, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 22s Gd.
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER VASE,
Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Glass,
10s 6d Pair.
Others, 8s Gd,
12s Gd, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel TOILET SET, comprising Mirror, Hair Brush,
and Cloth Brush, 27s 6d.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, 32s 6d, 355, 37s 6d, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAj or CAKE SERVER, Pure Silver-Plated,
Mother of Pearl Handle, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
Solid Oak SALAD BOWL and SERVERS,
Pure Silver-Plated Mounts, 30s, 355.
Others, 20s, 255, 395, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird
CHARM, 6s 6d.
Large Size, 8s 6d.
15ct. Gold, Pearl Set,
21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Leather WALLET,
fitted every convenience, 5s 6d.
Silver Lock, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, It’s 6d, 12s Gd,
15s, 2Cs.
NICKEL
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Non-Magnetic, Strong, Reliable Knock-
about WATCHES. Our Unrivalled 20s.
Extra Quality Lever, 255.
Extra Jewelled, 30s.
Cheaper Lines, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
All Guaranteed.
SILVER,
30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Secret
Pearl Set
HEART, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 30s
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
) oulton China Lining, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12.: 6d.
17s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
-.UTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-Plated.
Handsomely Engraved, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 2s, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, ss, 6s 6d.
1
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE and POCKET-BOOK
COMBINATION,
Solid Leather, Silk Lining, P's Gd.
With Silver Shield, P2s Cd.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,.
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN.
809, 811, 813, 815. 817
GEORGE STREET
Opp. Kailway Station, SYDNEY.


%
I
I
I
.
■
mm.
■
n ■
m-'-
mmsmn
felfc
MM&.H
mm g ;
■HHra&sS
c • /
■ - 6
gpfs* ;
* >
.
i
XV i
«
sSiSg
AY
v ; Ei
5YOJ*&\
• PftfctH
f& ADRLAiDfi. V
»BAvtARAT
- 'HE AO orf=ic.«. V
Wk Hetsoußfifi. $ v
mi
8
llii
ISlIISil®
lIS
1118
Of all light.
Adelaide
X 1


STL. •&£
as
&
0^
00
$
&
V o
s&tj;
stakr
5
*' r V?
'V
V 'V T
M§,
i&si
■IX
m
v
Or
s?**'
■ 1T053
of>
Wi
SAC
SUITS
TO
MEASURE-
-63/-
j *
A Large Variety of Smart
Patterns to choose from.
Send at once for Self-Measurement Forms
and Selections to choose from, posted
FREE to any address^
Uhe
Perfecfla
Shirts
In Oxford Material
Newest Colorings
and . . .
Style of Patterns
5/6 each.
Also . . .
White vShirts
6/6 <a 8/6.
Made in otir Own
WorKrooms.
oo
r\fl
o
0
0
0


;
WT
[)
.
■
?
■
-I--N
'ir
v
1
J
-
" .
f
«--r|
JiL
;
x .
i
m§
With a CAMEO Cigarette a Man
can be Happy Anywhere.


m
9
*' v> V' '
jppsoi
i
h
s
«*€
A
m
w
r
.3?
31
1F :
M
jpr
iig
■
■
You can’t beat the Gippsland LaKes
where there is always Splendid Sport. Drop a Post Card to the
General Passenger O. Freig'bts Ag'ent, Vidtorian Railways,
and lie will give yon all particulars and assist you witli
Melb


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & 00.
Albany Agents : 11EN11Y WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
' ‘—THIS—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices > ■ 105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.O
The lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,461 assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1868.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,226 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Caban, M.L.O. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. Y. RALSTON.
The Bank of Qorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL — Authorised ~ .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. 1 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) f £370,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £17,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direetors —Sydney : lion. A. YV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Ceyne ; Adelaide. W. N.
M ‘Fareane ; Brisbane, A. Hamieton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Parquhar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1579.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Agents Wanted.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Ta 3.—
NORMAN BROS.
68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
IOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
k.
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
Is non-heating. One cup contains
more nourishment than 10 cups ot
any ordinary cocoa.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d. ; Posted, 8d
SUpplng.
3XT. D. L
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 25th NOVEMBER.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 23rd DECEMBER.
•WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 20th JANUARY.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
w
Til Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Produetr.
Capiliarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
laaia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
\
Ths RuuiC.
CRAIG & AIT KEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supplj
House. 654 GEORGE StREET, SYDNEY.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SALAMIS
SOPHOCLES
♦MILTIADES
A. Douglas
R. M'Killiam
T. F. Spalding
Noon, Dec. 1
Noon, Dec. 16
Noon, Jan. 12
♦Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail on or about
25th NOVEMBER,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC,
and AFRIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 30 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
B A.3XTIC S.S. Co. A. and. A. LIKTE.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. VENTURA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, DECEMBER 4.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
PP CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH SEA
ISLAND
CRUISES
Do you know what charming
trips can be made among the
Islands of the Western Pacific? Are you aware that
our steamers will carry you comfortably round the most
interesting of the Island Groups, with your home always on board, at an average
cost of about Ten Shillings a Day —that is less than your hotel expenses alone
would be on your usual holiday. May we have the pleasure of mailing you our
new illustrated descriptive matter ?
BURNS, PHILP & GO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - ef
Se cur ity.
EASY INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
$
&
'cizxjzaoosia
sins
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.-w.
Hontdepete D.il.C°‘>litd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .• £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,8X2 10 0
Reserve FusD(lnvested in Government Stock) 65,000 0 0
£698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Kdvvd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., VV. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EqiiitaUle Building’s, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £2,000,000
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
Nov. 27, Dec. 25, Jan. 22.
To EUROPE
via
CANADA and AMERICA.
The Cheapest
and
Most Attractive Route.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free .
♦
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, Genera! Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising: I
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket '
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter)),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin
and card tricks), The Surprise Packet, or Nerve
Strengthener (a good joke), the Wizard Fish
(gives the definition of your character —very
superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s I.ove I
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. H. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
™ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South
Yiotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
\nd GULF PORTS,
2SPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Innamincka, Friday,
November 24.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, Nov. 25.
S.S. Innamincka, Dec. 2.
Beat anil Cheapest Uoute to Goldjields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with thr
French Government, calling- at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: —
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . liY THIS . .
“E. AND A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVEHV (JOIN v U.N4EJSICE J ./R A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cal.ins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Foi handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. Ll>.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
CS9HHHaBBHBnB9MBDHnRBHH&3
SYDNEY
decoratid, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Centra], and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arrange j..
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
Hodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comror and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon afield Parade
Sl'. HILDA.
fiIHF Largest and ijesc-Appointed Boarding-house in
J- the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
hy tram. Billiards etc.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
Wl M POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
THE LAST OF SIX
Price 6d. Post Free.


“ C. 8.” writes :
You say (B. 2/11/’O5) that “ the proud and sensitive
Jap” may be noted in “all the brothels from Oairns, etc.,
to Kalgoorlie.” This is only half the truth. There are
kimonaed prostitutes in Melbourne who are hired out by
the “proud and sensitive” little Monkey-man to the
Syrian and Hindu colonies in Exhibition and Little Lons-
dale streets. Officialdom denies their presence, but a
blind man can find them any time. The Jap woman of
pleasure can also be found in Brisbane. Some years ago
three of her settled down in Fortitude Valley, where she
was well known to the time-expired Kanakas. Eventually
some Kanakas raised trouble, and a battle-royal ensued
between them and the little brown bullies from Chrysan-
themum land. Then there were police court proceedings,
and the hurried departure of the soiled Geisha. Next
some kimona girls took a cottage near Breakfast Creek.
Here, again, officialdom denied their existence, but a row
over a canary brought them all before the police court
and they fled north to Townsville. After a time they
again sailed southwards, and are in Brisbane now. An
attempt to “vag.” their bullies failed, for the Bench
decided they had “ visible means of support.” The lawful-
ness of the visibility was a matter the amateur Solons
didn’t trouble with. Also Jap girls of pleasure have been
known as far inland as VVinton and Barcaldine.
Some remarks—not wholly untruthful—
from London Daily Chkonicle
We do not know, and cannot, therefore, profitably
speculate upon, the attitude of the Australian Common-
wealth to this new alliance. The military and naval
impotence of the Commonwealth is such that as a conse-
quence of its hostile legislation against the Mongolian
race, the occupation of Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide
would be an irresistible temptation to the captors of Port
Arthur but for the fact that Australia, though virtually
an industrial republic, is still nominally within the circle
of the British Empire. According to Major-General
Hutton, late Federal Commandant, a force capable of
taking the field does not at present exist in Australia.
Lieutenant-Colonel J. C. Neild, Senator of the Common-
wealth, states that the people of Australia are living in a
“fools’ paradise.” When General Hutton quitted Aus-
tralia he handed over to his successor at the end of 1904 a
force of 18,000 troops, a reduction of 8000 in three years,
the departments necessary for a mobile army having yet
to be created. Having no navy and neither funds, know-
ledge nor plant for the creation of a fleet, the Australian
public are as defenceless against the Japanese as the
Koreans, although they refuse to contribute to the cost
of the British Navy beyo-sd a trifle which does not defray
half the upkeep of the strategically useless and practically
obsolete squadron maintained by British taxpayers in
Australian waters.
Canada, which does not contribute one cent to the cost
of the British Navy, has rivalled the Commonwealth, at
all events on the British Columbian side of the Continent,
in her cavalier treatment of our Asiatic allies. Does
Canada approve of an Imperial policy which depends for
defence of the Indian frontier upon Asiatics, whose ambi-
tions are boundless and whose real feelings towards Eng-
land are those of an efficient, hungry, and impoverished
swordsman for an opulent and impotent employer?
A “fools’ Paradise,” “as defenceless as the
Koreans,” the “strategically useless arid practi-
cally obsolete squadron,” and England as the
“impotent employer” of the efficient and hungry
Japanese swordsman ! What a picture for Aus-
tralia, which has just been over-drinking itself on
Trafalgar Day.
Griffith and Allan, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne—(Broken Hiil Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. lveogh of
Melbourne.*
Dr. Tim Hynes, of Adelaide, who has just
come back from Japan, says that the Govern-
ment has Europeanised that country to the extent
of vetoing nude male bathing when women are
adjacent. So the bathers wear trunks, which
they put on just before they jump into the water
and discard when they emerge, being then rubbed
down by attentive Japanese girls before donning
their ordinary attire. The letter of the law is thus
scrupulously observed, but the spirit of things is
as nude as ever.
Again the “poor farmer, the plucky, self-
pliant primary producer.” The Vic. Agricultural
Department is now building 13 large silos in
different parts of Bent’s State, “to encourage
farmers to adopt modern methods in the produc-
tion of ensilage and to systematically test its value
for feeding dairy cows and sheep during dry
weather.” And when the farmer has waxed fat
through this State assistance and supervision he
will puff out his fat waistcoat and bellow against
“ Socialistic legislation.”
ED
ATHLETES
DR. SHELDON S
MAGNETIC
LINIMENT.
A favourite rub down and
indispensable in case
of accident.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
GUARANTEED • - I'6AND3/-
Superior to
COPAIBA
, CUBEBS and
| INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 43
hours without
incon-
venience.
Eaoa Capsule bears the name gap—
MiDY
r
i 8 1
.
HEALTH, STRENGTH and HAPPINESS
for the CHILDREN.
The Wallaby Express
affords the most exhilarating fun.
Expands the lungs, develops the
muscles, and is absolutely safe. A
splendid investment. Pays for itself
in health.
37/6
DINING-BILLIARD
TABLES, Bft., all
complete - - £2l
FALLSHAW BROS.,
191 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
Old Established Makers of
BILLIARD TABLES, INVALID CHAIRS of
every description, DENTAL and HAIR-
DRESSERS’ CHAIRS, &c.
CATALOGUES POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
m
9
¥
»»
WIIIMII i ■,
»s*
ynirnii -1
House [leaning
Carpets, Furniture,
Curtains, &c., cleaned
without removal.
CONVENE NCE, CLEANLINESS,
DISINFECTION, ECONOMY.
BY THE
Simpson & Burton
SUCTION D'JST
EXTRA C TOR,
Office: 14 O'CONNELL ST.
SYDNEY.
Telephone 2377.
IfST-Write or Telephone us and our
representative will call.
YOU FREE! A Solid Silver Watch.
/
"S'
°v ur a b a lo<rue into as many homes as
n We (- haVe decided to,-give away 1000 Solid
Siher Watches to persons, of either sex who send in the
correct solution of the following- puzzle '
OXR WXXC.XXS AXE TXE BXXT.
! ,rhe on Jy condition is that, if your answer is correct
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
Pear with the watch. We make .this conditioh becaul
Sons onlv° a Th°e g se e to fL fc in - to the ha nds of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toys, but Solid
* ’l er ’ p nd ' U ,,- y Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sarj. Forward your letter,' and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch
i Address: Puzzle Competition,
ARTHUR PRYME £ CO.,
A.F PITT ST., SYDNEY,
N.S. W.
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
BOVRIL
is the Cook’s best friend.
An appetising and nutritious soup
is quickly made by the use of
Bovril and it renders Curries and
all made dishes palatable and
strengthening.
Sk i» 5 and 10 pound Boxes.
r iijrCS FINEST FRUIT in the WORLD.
World’s Greatest Dwelling Architects.
SEND S. P.O. Order for our Big- 4s. Book, “Modern Homes,” containing- 170 Designs of Modern Dwellings
built in wood, stone, brick, half wood and half stone and cement stone —showing views and floor plans and
estimated cost of each house. The largest Architectural Publication in the world. It is our business to make
plans and specifications for dwellings, business and public buildings of all kinds. Our 23 years of experience in
planning houses enables us to make plans accurately for building in any part of the world. The house shown
below has been built over 800 times for £240. We will mail you, post paid, Full Blue Print Workina
Plans and Specifications, complete for <G2. 3
F-i kTtch=
©I7IWGR 1
IS- 14
<«!
P>AC!l 0 0
(3»i5 I G>rA7Zfl
10. I|
rooms open into hall
with grille arch es between
dining room, parlor and
hall.
This Plan can he Reversed to Suit Any Location.
£>cd Woan
HiEDfiWr
I S’
&C<S>HD ftf&Ci
Three comfortable cham-
bers, 2nd floor.
hnii^l! r J°'v, haVe 13 to 2s - or the book, “Modern Homes,” which contains all information about
of me ' r i fce our new bo ? k > “ Public Buildings,” which contains designs and plans of Schools,
I Stores, . Ga ° ls ’ Office and Public Buildings of a’l kinds and descriptions. It also contains a series of
ml? high-priced dwellings, costing above £2OOO. This book has just been issued, and contains the latest
ana most practical designs in business buildings and fine dwellings. We send this, post paid, for only 4s.
Established
18S2.
J. H. DAVERMAN & SON, Architects,
Grand Rapids, Mich.
Porter Black.
Subscribe for ART IN
ARCHITECTURE, a monthly publication, 4s. per year, devoted to artistic homes and
home furnishings. J. H. DAVERMAN & SON, Publishers.
Beautiful Home Decorations
9
nf
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
„ ‘n SAPOfiliV ” FLOOR STAIAS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders.
W oodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired. '
“SAI’OUV) ALFMIiVIIM E\AJIEL gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made ot metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish!
In or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
~ >Al;v,r (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used In this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENBORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also maker* of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
f
V,
H A DIES ! A TTENTION !! !
A PERFECT COMPLEXION BEAUTIFIER ANdI
REMOVER OF WRINKLES.
Tf !u n,y ELECTR,C MASSAGE ROLLER (patented by Dr. John Wilson Gibbes)
with the World-Famous EPIDERMIA CREAM, The Wonderful Skin
Demulcent, applied'in conjunction to specially facilitate the Massage.
at Silver 15/6 n n Iri i Hr ® fn i'n a tl .' ial „ are delighted with the result. Rollers supplied
onlvat 2/6 -P° s * ed free to all States. Apply
SYDNEY HYGIEN ‘C AGENCY Ltd., 177 LIVERPOOL ST.,
SYDNEY. Beware of All Imitations and Fraudulent Rollers -
CREAM, IN TUBES,
Soap and
Powder.
the finest
SKIN PREPARATIONS
IN THE WORLD.
Sold by all Chemists St Storekeepers.
SOLE
AGENTS
00 V NNVIMHOI
Melbourne & Sydney.
Two Wonderful
Books on Rupture
Treatment—
FREE!
“Indispute be Testimony.’*
“A Warning- and Guide to the
Ruptured.”
Fill in this form and I will
post them to you.
Name...
Address
FTIO any man or woman who is suffering the torture of
~~7 upture, and who has tried many treatments without
S nt a S’ J wIU gladly send these two books, which
, the way to a radical Rupture Cure endorsed by
the highest medical authority in the world—“ The London
Lancet. ”
THE DR. J. A. SHERMAN
METHOD of CURING RUPTURE
HOTTttS r> i /q ■, CONSULTATIONS FREE.
EXTRA ?«-«»• ‘o 12-30, 2,30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m.
iuesday and Friday Evenings, from 7.30 to 9. Saturdays, 10 a.m. to
noon.
A. W. MARTIN,
00/e Controller for Australasia,
-Sf. Aubyns, 82 ffunter-st., Sydney.
of New South ? 9 ain Centres
xear, early application is necessary.


<< jjonio” Anenfc the rule in the Public
Service that, everything else being equal, merit
scores. I rise to say that I’ve had a little experi-
ences in such matters, and have almost invariably
found that merit and cheek are synonymous terms.
The following are extracts from letters
which appeared in Melbourne Argus in February,
1880 :
We are anxiously awaiting; news of your elections. The
injury these men have done the colony is immeasurable.
I could have got thousands of pounds to invest, but the
story of the Ministry having their “ hands on the throat
of capital ” has spread far and wide. But for these men,
English capital would have flowed into the colony and en-
couraged enterprise and labor, which is now stagnant.
The withering curse of the Berry blight has so thoroughly
shaken the confidence of capitalists and others that free-
hold property, in which alone I was dealing, has not
only depreciated very considerably over 40 per cent, as a
g’eneral average value all over the colony, but has become
positively unsaleable at any price whatever ; neither does
it now appear a bond fide security to finance upon.
The habit of remarking that confidence was being
destroyed and capital driven out of the country
was apparently just as strong 25 years ago as it is
to-day. Probably it existed even in the days
when Hebrew capital was driven out of Egypt
and Pharaoh lost confidence in the Red Sea.
This should delight the heart of Bruce
Smith. In parts of the N.T. the Chinese, who
have taken root and know their power, already
refer to Australians as “ fan-qui ’’—foreign devils.
There isn’t any doubt in their minds as to who
really owns the country.
Hawthorn (Vic.) Women’s National League
got a surprise the other evening, when a handful
of the Very Best People of the suburb turned
up to extend the glad hand to their washer-
women arid listen to a lecture by Lonsdale,
M.H.R., who gave Socialism particular Tophet
for about an hour, and was cheered with much
enthusiasm. Then he turned to find a solu-
tion of the ills that afflict humanity, and threw
land-tax at that women’s league while it squirmed
in agony. The land-tax, said Lonsdale, was the
only thing possible, and he related instances of
landlords’ iniquities until that league reached for
its silver-mounted smelling salts. As he sat
down, a youthful socialist, with a sense of humor,
asked the chairman if he would take a show of
hands of the members on Mr. Lonsdale’s sugges-
tions about the land-tax, and the chairman said it
was a fine evening, or words to that effect, and
hurriedly declared the meeting closed.
“L. ” : Observe how seldom the name-
brooch wearer’s name fits her appearance. Old
Brown was lamenting to me the other day that
his wife (aged 48 and wearing badly) would insist
on sporting a brooch, presented to her many years
ago, which bore the name of her babyhood, “Little
Popsy.” Just then we were passed by a “ Grace ”
who must be the least graceful woman in Australia,
and a “ Queenie ” who was remarkably unlike the
queen of a poet’s dream. Then I went home, and
noticed that the brooch of my 14-stone landlady
called her “Dot.”
“Kyle”: The proposed Barren Jack
(N.S.W.) water scheme promises to raise the old
row with S.A. about the division of the waters of
the Big Trickle. It seems a pity that something
large and definite and final can’t be done with the
shocking stream. Has any enthusiastic but insane
engineer ever tried to calculate the cost of divert-
ing the Murray at Morgan (S.A.), and starting it
north to empty into Lake Frome or Lake Blanche
or Lake Gregory, instead of leaving it to go
moaning uselessly into the sea at the Murray
Mouth ? Australia hasn’t so much fresh water
that it can afford to go dropping it into the sea
after this fashion.
WILL ANDRADE ... ROOKS
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hardcovers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play. Billiards, Is. georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish,
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to .Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Recti Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s»
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI*
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with ful directions, 1s ; posted 1/3,
B-
If-
m
Free Catalogues:
Mo. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
Mo. 2—Conjuring' Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels In
English.
No, 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Flashlights on Japan, by Dr. Maloney, 6d, post 8d
God and My Neighbor, 9d, post Is. Tom Mann on
Socialism, 3d, post 4d. Shanty Entertainment, Is.
BOTIINER’S SCIENTIFIC! WRESTLING, 66 full-page pllOtOS.,
is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines* boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6; Plow to Make Up* Illustrated
Gulae to the Stage* is. NEwTricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow* 3s, Dr. Foote’s Plain . Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest* 1248 pages* over 400
Colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Saitiio,
genuine, is. Dynamos And Electric'Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook* 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Building Model
Boats* Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d. Stolen Sweets* ls6d.
Blacksmith’s Work* Is 3d. UovEr'S Letter Writer ,
Is. Photography, is* Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d* ahd Is. Tocology for Mothers* 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries* 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s .post.
Age op Reason* is 3d. Ingrrsoll’s Works, 6d, Is.
2s6d, and 6s 6d. LlghtNing Calculator, is. Min-
strel Show* jokes* speeches, etc., Is. Money
Making SecreTs, Is. Women’s Secrets* Is 3d. Letter
Writer, is, Speeches And Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor, Is.
AND ANY BOOR YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address*
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
MANNING’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
The most complete work ever published, 1905 Edition. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding-, breaking
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases—their causes, how to know them and
how to cure them. Worth £lO for iis information, but offered for 10/3.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST
MELBOURNE.
Perspiration and Dust,
so disagreeable, yet so common in hot
weather, can easily be removed by using
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Toilet Soap.
A pleasantly perfumed pure antiseptic
soap which can be used for all toilet
purposes and as a preventive of conta-
gion. It contains 10% Crystal Carbolic,
and so has a healthy action on the skin,
and assists to improve the complexion.
Calvert’s Carbolic Ointment
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients
to cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed
skin, piles, cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
P. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester)
England.
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (iLttis-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corpore
Sano.” Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN. The following subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varicccele, Genefal
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for sufferers to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation
WRITE TO-DAY.
SURGEON LANGSTON, "jSJ:* 1
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
-
-•.
;■
i ; i, ' - - >'/
Mr. Joseph Megson,
Champion Cyclist,
Cured of Nerve Disorders.
We treated this great athlete,
and cured him in three months.
Men i Toe Know
The Freeman & Wallace Institute Specialities.
THEY ARE DEADLY DESTRUCTIVE DISORDERS.
Do not lose your grip on life because inferior remedies have failed to benefit you. Our Special Treatment
is an unfailing cure for certain forms of Men’s Diseases. These diseases are what we term Ge,nito-I7rinary, and
these are our specialities. We do not profess to cure all kinds of complaints, but we do profess to cure these
disorders provided we consider them curable.
When doctors differ, to whom should a sick man turn ? Not to his friends or relatives, They are good enough
for sympathy, but sympathy won’t cure disease or palliate. Neglect or delay will only feed or strengthen it, and this
means ruin of health to the Sufferer.
The sick man should turn to the Specialist who is a Doctor in Men’s Diseases. AH doctors are not specialists,
they are subject to classification. A man suffering from diseased eyes should consult an eye doctor, and a man
suffering from a Genito-Urinary Disorder should consult the Specialists of
Freeman*Wallace Electro-Medical Institutes
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE
Mr. Jack Marsh,
Professional Bowler,
Cured of Rheumatism.
This man was doubled up with
pain, and cured in two months.
Young, Middle-Aged or Old Men.
Our Specialists ask you to read the following statements
concerning Serious Diseases. They will appeal to you.
If you similarly suffer, consult us and be cured.
VARICOCELE.
We can cure this disease without operati 'n, and under our
treatment the congested blood vessels with..' ten days disap-
pear. The parts are restored to their natural condition, vigor,
and strength, and circulation is re-establiske.l by electricity
and electro-medication. It is the twentieth century treatment.
RUPTURE.
We cure in 30 days, without operation or hypodermic injec-
tion. No use in wearing trusses. Our treatment is painless,
bloodless, and with no detention from business. Old-standing
or maltreated cases especially invited. These, of course, tax
all the skill that science can devise to palliate conditions
created by maltreatment, apathy, or neglect. Our methods
are those of Continental scientists.
“ WEAKNESS ' IN MEN.
Weakness is merely a symptom brought on by early dissipa-
tion or improper treatment oi contracted diseases. The cure
lies in restoring the system to its normal healthy state. This
we accomplish rapidiy without the use of a long course of
internal remedies.
NERVO-VITAL DEBILITY.
There is certainly no victim of Nervo-Vital Debility but who
hopes to be rejuvenated some time. Our special treatment
for this trouble, varied to suit each case, is an unfailing cure,
to which a vast army of restored men to-day owe their happy
condition in life. ?
URINARY AILMENTS.
We cure without the knife or instrument by an application
which acts directly on the parts affected, dissolving the trouble
completely, by our galvanic electrical medical treatment. It
is painless, and in no wise interferes with your business duties.
KIDNEY TROUBLE.
We cure all irritation, stoppage, pain in the back, brickdust
sediment, and catarrhal condition. We cure to stay cured.
We do not experiment. Kidney troubles may be deadly
destructive. Do not trifle .with them or they will kill you.
PILES.
We cure without operation in 10 days ; no detention from
business ;no acid injection or ligatures used. Electricity and
gentle medication. This system is adopted by the most
scientific Continental practitioners, who have intimately
studied these distressing complication, which are so prevalent
in Australia.
A VIEW OF THE SYDNEY INSTITUTE.
Over £lOO,OOO has been spent upon this Institute in less than 25 years to
make it one of the most complete in the Southern Hemisphere. It has a
splendid service of X-Ray Instruments recently Introduced from America by
the Director. Also a perfect system of Electro-Radiated Baths are installed.
The Freeman Sz Wallace
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney and at Melbourne
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute ; Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., Ph.vsieian-in-Chief •
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Department of Women and Children.
TWO SPECIALISTS unequalled in Their Specialities.
The name of The Freeman & Wallace Institute
is associated with rapid and effective treatment applied .to the
Cure of Men suffering from Serious Blood Disorders,
Rupture, Bladder Ailments, Cystitis, Kidney
Diseases, Prostatic Gland Ailments, Urinary
Imperfections, Stomach Ailments or any class of
complaint affecting the Nervous System. The Specialists
are as familiar Medically to the Australian public mind as the
names of reigning Kings to the universe. The secret of their
distinguished careers lies in the fact that they cure where
others fail.
Four Legally-Qualified Physicians.
The Managing Director and Founder of the Institute, Sydney
and Melbourne, who has just returned from an extended tour
of the United States, and a general inspection of the largest
hospitals and scientific health centres, controls a Qualified
Staff of Four Expert Physicians and Surgeons,
who, through constant practice, know their disease as a child
knows its alphabet. They do not pretend to treat all diseases ;
they are Specialists only in Men’s Disorders. The Physician-in-
Ohief, Dr. Richard Wallace, is registered by Australian,
English and American Medical Boards. He makes no charge
for friendly talks or advice by letter. His 600-page Book Free.
Electro-Static and X Ray Instruments.
The most scientific instruments, including the Electro-
static and X Ray, as well as the Globe Nebulizer for the. cure
of Throat diseases, are installed at The Freeman and
Wallace institute. New inventions and methods of
treatment of Diseases, discovered by leading Scientists, are
secured after their benefits have been recognised by Physicians
attached to leading continental hospitals. All modern appli-
ances for the successful application of Electricity to combat
diseases are installed in the Institute. The Freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical Institute is, there-
fore, up-to-date. Its Physicians practice modern methods.
RADIUM VtfATER-CURE P —This is the greatest discovery
of the 20th century. It cures rapidly many of the so-called
“ incurable ” nerve disorders of man. It brings the curative
Mineral Springs to the fireside of every family. Radium is
proved to be the mortal enemy of disease and impurity, taken
into the human system in solution, it at once attacks the
diseased parts of the body, destroys the germs in the tissues
and in the biood, and restores the body to soundness and
health. The Radium-Charged Water, as used in the leading.
hospitalsof the world, and by the Freeman and Wallace Institute
will cure effectively where many other means absolutely f a jj ’


The German lottery promoter thinks very
highly of England’s “Empire-building” policy—
especially the new penny-postage part of it. It
costs him 2|d. to send a letter to Australia direct,
so he sends bundles of them across to England,
and this afflicted country is beginning to be
littered with them. And now the manufacturer
of German notions is following suit.
HAVE YOU A
BAD LEG ?
With Wounds that discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen, that when you
press your linger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, it not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds; the disease,
if alio wed to continue, will deprive you of the power to wa k.
You may have attended various hospitals and had medical
advice and been told your case is hopeless, or advised to
subnvt to amputation ; but do not, for I can cure you. I
don’t say perhaps, but I will. Because others have failed
itisno reason I should. Send at once for a Box of Alberts
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills, which is a ce tain cure of
Bad Legs, Housemaid’sKnee.UlceratedJoints,Carbuncles,
Bunions, Ringworm, Poisonsd Hands, and Insect Bites.
Of all Chemists, Stores, &c. Prepared by ALBERT, 73,
Faijingdon Street, London, England. Purchasers should
look fop the Registered 1 rade Mark of the Grasshopper
911 a green label on each box. (Regi tered Copyright).
GOOD
Sunlight
Soap
Good soap
Pure soap
—All soap
No woman
ever quarrel-
led with her-
self for trying
good Sunlight
Soap, for Sun-
light Soap is
really good
and contains
ik irritants.
3°9
When you have proved the value of Sunlight Soap
you will be equally satisfied if you try Monkey
Brand for scouring metal and woodwork.
Blooming
(Children!
HOW happy, how enviable is
the mother who sees her
children growing up
around her strong and sturdy !
Mothers, would you rather envy
or be envied ? The choice is in
your own hands if you will re-
member that
scotrs Emulsion
of cod liver oil with glycerine
and the hypophosphites of lime
and soda is a veritable panacea
for children who are delicate or
ailing from any cause. Take one
instance out of a thousand
that of Mrs. Symon All port, of
4, Baldwin Street, Erskineville,
who wrote us on March 16, 1904 :
“ My little daughter, Agatha May, aged
four years, was until recently a great
sufferer from rickets and general wast-
ing. I was induced to try Scott’s
Emulsion and the results have far ex-
ceeded my most sanguine expectations.
Mv child is now well and stroner. the
Ifi
rickets have
entirely left
her, and she is
in every way as
though she had
never been ill
at all—is in fact
a fine healthy
child.”
“A fine
Healthy
Child!”
Yes, Scott’s Emulsion
does not stop short at
curing the trouble ; it
cures first, then builds
up. This is the only
sort of cure worth
having because it is
the only sort of cure
Which lasts. Scott’s
Emulsion is cheapest
in the end.
For wasting, rickets,
feebleness, refusal to
take food, colds, coughs
whooping cough, bron-
( chitis, eczema and all
skin and teething troubles there is
no remedy like Scott’s Emulsion.
Write to-day for a free sample bottle
(enclosing 4d. for postage and
mentioning this paper) to SCOTT
& BOWNE, Ltd., 483, Kent
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Inky Way.
Even Nelson was all the better for having a sub-editor
on the premises. He proposed, “ Nelson confides that
every man will do his duty.” The fleet sub. suggested
“expects,” Nelson changed the first word to “England,”
and it stood at that.
* * * *
In the life of London journalist John Robinson it is
stated that Douglas Jerrold, when editing Lloyd’s
Weekly, gave great offence to the royal family. His
consisted in adversely criticising a sermon in which
the Rev. Hugh M'Neill, of Liverpool, compared the Prince
Consort’s visit to that city to the second coming of Christ 1
* * * *
The sort of illustrations which, presumably, please
London Black and White’s readers : “ The Baroness
Burdett Coutts’ goat, Hepalica.” “The Racecourse
Clown who amused Queen Alexandra, and who was given
20s. by Her Majesty.”
* * * *
“O’Fipp”: After long study of Argus leaders I have
formed a theory. There must be a rule that no leading
article shall contain less than 20 quotations. It also
appears to be understood that most of the leader’s state-
ments should be put as questions. Apparently the Argus
Office contains a trunk-full of miscellaneous extracts in
prose and verse, and when the tame Jove of the establish-
ment wants to forge thunderbolts he opens it and
dredges up a handful indiscriminately. Then he starts :
“Let the members most concerned remember the
words of the anonymous thinker who inscribed his
thoughts on the bricky pages of the Egyptian Book of
the Dead— 1 1 have not driven back the water at the time
of its rising. I have not turned aside a watercourse.’
Solemn thought!—especially for Mr. Deakin, for has he
not indeed turned aside the watercourse of Mr. Reid’s
majestic progress as Prime Minister ? Every right-
thinking person will here remember M. de Voltaire’s
apologue, which we will not insult our readers by quoting.
Enough that (as Mr. Allan M‘Lean, M.H.R., puts it in his
poems)
‘ Ah me 1 ’tis done ! *
(We quote from memory.) Has not Mr. Deakin told his
‘most dainty and honey-sweet mistress,’ the Common-
wealth, in the terms of the late Mr. John Ford’s problem
play, ‘ Tis Pity She’s a Woman with a Past,’ ‘ Though you
like my uncle’s wit better than mine you shall marry me,’
and, as new Prime Minister, taken forcible possession of
her young affections ? But, as M. le Seigneur de Mon-
taigne some years ago pointed out, ‘To-morrowe is a
newe daye.’ Is not Mr. Reid even now, like that common-
sense person, Signor de Boccaccio’s Friar Onion, 1 laugh-
ing in his sleeve at those who had designed to make a jest
of him ’ ? All will remember what Mr. George Meredith
has said, and the views of Mr. W. E. Henley, And,
like M. Rabelais’s Panurge, may not Mr. Reid
yet clear the Federal ship till there is ‘ never
another sheepish soul left lurking on board’? May
we not hope with Cains Petronius Arbiter that this
will be done ‘without indecent haste’ (‘decently and in
order,’ or ‘ ohne hast, ohne rast,’ as the Hebrew and
Teutonic thinkers expressed similar sentiments)? And
will not Mr. Reid remember the words sometimes attri-
buted to Madame Roland—‘Liberty! what crimes are
committed in thy name ! ’ and, now that he has the
liberty of a leader of His Majesty’s Opposition, will he
not, we ask, so use it that none shall be able to say of
him that he is
‘ Such stuff
As dreams are made of ’ ?
Dreams, we mean, of what an unidentified seer has called
‘ the liberty that degenerates into license.’”
The art of Argus leader-writing is a good art, and there
is nothing else on earth just like it.
• * * *
The depth of inanity is reached by some English papers
in articles written round the photographs of “ children of
notable people.” Any sort of a title is taken as a proof
of notability, and the discerning journalist can find in a
child a few months old as many signs of genius as those
discovered by the peripatetic phrenologist who volunteers
to “ read yer bumps fer a bob.” The more unintelligent
a child looks, the brighter are the hopes held out of future
greatness. A sample, from the Boudoir, treats of an infant
about two years of age:—“ Everything connected with
machinery is the joy of this little boy’s life ; he loves
trains, and railway lines with miniature' telegraph posts,
and bis last and dearest possession is a crane, that
ingenious contrivance whereby great weights can so easily
be lifted. He is but a mite at present, but has quite a
respectable collection of mechanical toys, model bridges
and railway signals, which work up and down in the most
approved manner, and other things of the kind too
numerous to mention. Perhaps some day he may become
a famous mechanician.” Perhaps he may ; but on the
other hand he may simply grow up to fly round in a
motor car like Willie Kelly, M.H.R., and run over dogs
and cow*.
•V * * *
“L.L.”: Ernest Favenc’s interesting remarks on
writers’ mannerisms and compositors’ vagaries (20/7/’O5)
remind me of my type-snatching days on Newcastle
Herald years ago. Editor Corrigan wrote a bad but
consistent hand, though his copy was good enough when
you got used to it. He had a habit, however, of abbre-
viating ; and one night a new comp got the leader to set.
He took “ Govt.” to be “Goat,” thinking it was some
sling-off or other, and he set it “ Goat ” all through the
article. As a rule, the old man read his own stuff, with-
out troubling the proof-reader, but this night he didn’t
turn up, and the proof lay on his table unheeded. There
was a species of earthquake in the office next day, and
the unfortunate reader got “particular.” For many
months Corrigan wrote “ Gonnmnnnnt ” carefully at fuil
length, that being as near as he could get it. Mr.' Favenc
gives “ lovely,” “ doze,” and “ cheery ” as words that un-
dermine the comp’s intellect; but I think the word that
rattles him most of all is “exorcise.” “Exercise” he
knows, but very few of him can be brought to admit the
existence of “ exorcise.” But it would be hard to decide
whether the scribe or the stamp-lifter most deserves the
crown of martyrdom.
* * * *
“ Hassan ” : Sacri! how I hate, how despise this canaille
of “ Pro Bono Publico,” this “ George Pile,” this “ Father
of Ten.” In France it is not so. One listens not to such.
Bah ! I, fresh to the papers of this country, write, ah,
such magnificent, beautiful sentiment, an article, say, of
interest undoubted on “ L’entente Cordiale.” I take it to
Monsieur le ridacteur. He is pleased—he is touched—
Aha ! he weeps upon his table. “ Noble,” he says. “Ah !
Philanthrope, I embrace you.” But he does not print,
and I desire new boots. Why does he not print ? I
whisper in your ear, M. le ' Bulletin. He does not
print because this thief of a “ Veritas,” this
cochon of an “E Pluribus Unum” argue in many
columns as to the habits of God. For nothing ! They do
not desire payment. They write—ah ! the such miser-
able wash-hog, wb oh no one reads—for la gloire. La
gloire! Lieu! That is not all. Permit me to weep,
monsieur. I Idas ! I write the tale of France’s wrongs.
Joy ! It prints itself. I write more—France has many
sorrows. But, behold! This vile “Justitia” has
answered—always without pay-one, two columns. And
the further sorrows are crowded out. The ridacteur
weeps with me, but does he print? Do weeps buy
biftek ? Do weeps keep the door from the wolf ? Bah !
Canaille d’ inkslingaires ! I like to push their faces.
* * * *
A Melbourne man tells this story. Travelling in a
railway carriage, with one of the Argus Mackinnons
and another English-looking johnnie seated opposite to
him, he was reading Tiie Bulletin. Said the other
johnnie, “The Bulletin is a clevah papah, I’m told,” to
which the Mackinnon replied, “Scurrilous rag; no
respectable person reads it.” This in a very loud’ and
significant tone of voice. The disrespectable man on the
opposite seat also had a friend beside him, from whom he
borrowed the Argus in exchange for The Bulletin.
Presently he exploded with wrath at the foolishness of
the morning journal—it’s twaddling Tory leaders, and
the columns of puerile discussion about the Twelve
Best Roses, or the Five Fattest Freetraders. “ I’ll never
look at the d d dreary thing again,” said he, throwing
the copy out of window. Then the haughty Mackinnon
looked as though he wished he hadn’t spoken.
* * * •
“0.”: Strange how a man’s trade sometimes gets him
down. At a funeral I met a proof-reader I knew, and
after the ceremony we went meditating among the tombs.
He criticised the wording and punctuation of nearly every
inscription we saw. Coming to one of particularly bad
construction, he produced a pencil, and made corrections
in spelling and capitals, deleted commas, and so on.
After that he wanted to stop and proof-read every slab on
the way to the cemetery gates. I just managed to get
him away in time to take up his night’s work on the
Daily Megaphone*
V
>
FOR SKIN
SCALP HAIR
AND HANDS
BO YOU WANT
Your children
to grow up
Healthy and
strong, with
good teeth and
a line digestion.
Cut out sweets
and give them
all they want
of
PETER’S
The Original
Swiss Milk
CHOCOLATE
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made bv Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
VW BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
Sold"
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Hand/o IIG
Buffalo Handle- 2',-
Stag Handle - - - 2, G
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PfIMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
• :■
-
m
a
Cfc/tw
.A-
UNIVERSAL RECORPS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPHONES
TWO SPECIAL
INSTRUMENTS
¥
The Colonial, and
The New Standard.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING,
SOLE
AGENT,
316 George St„
SYDNEY
OSTRICH PLUMES
MILLERS
Black, White, Cream
Natural, or Black
and White mixed.
Length, 12 inches.
Post free.
The Feathers we offer
you cannot be bought
for twice the money
in any other house.
They are the best value ever offered
in Australia. Send Postal No.eor
Money Order to John Miller,
il'ler's)
iM
m.
From the
Famous Farms
of South Africa,
Black, White,
Cream, Natural,
or Black and
White mixed.
(18 inches)
21/-
As a trimming
nothing can
equal a good
Ostrich Feather
in p. Lady’s Hat.
They look soft and graceful, therefore
eminently becoming for young and old.
IL T IISTRATED PRICE LIST POST FREE.
■(I ' .v,' ;
OSTRICH TIPS,
From the Farms of Africa.
Black, White,
Cream, or Black
tipped with White.
Length 10 inches..
3 for 10/-
There’s a charm about
Hiller’s Ostrich Tips no
other trimming can impart.
Natural Ostrich Boas, 21s. Length 1| yards.
Write to-day. Send postal notes.
HERE’S A BARGAIN.
Two Tips
with Osprey,
Black, White,
Cream, and
Black tipped
with white.
Length, 9 inches
5/ The Bunch
/ " Post free.
We make this Special
offer to advertise our Ostrich
Tips. Write to-day
Send Postal Uote.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP.
Corner STRAND ARCADE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
A,™™** n 8 ° a ? C °l n « r BOURKE and SWANBTON STREETS, MELBOURNE.
Address Letters to Department P. [Mention The Bulletin.]


/
/
7
&
m
'K
s
i
u
k
V)
u
1
JM.
i
THE best thing 1 that can be said about a Watch is, “ It’s an
Honest Watch.” It tells you the correct time always—you
never find it mislead you. If you want just such a Watch we can
recommend for your perusal our 48-page Booklet of Honest
Watches, prices for which range from 14/6 to £7O. We will be
pleased to post a copy to any who will make the request. We
mention on this page half-a-dozen dependable Watches, any of
which we will send free and safe by post, together _ w '* h °“ r
written guarantee, on receipt of remittance. ORDER TO-DAY.
4/2 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
KauWaysl
yourmoneyS
■ WHIM I IIM
For the Average Man
we find our special make of Waltham Lever Watch is par-
ticularly suited. The price is comfortably within his reach
while the Watch is neat and handsome in appearance.
The movement is jewelled, 5-plate, with exposed winding
wheels, Brequet spring,
and compensation balance.
The winding is keyless,
and the cases are of the
Hunting style, made of
Hall-Marked Solid Silver.
We guarantee and sell this
Watch for
o
A Three-Quarter Plate
English Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the movement being so constructed
that the Watch is thinner than would be the case with a
full plate Watch. The balance wheel being situated below
the level of the plate, is specially protected from damage.
We offer a Gentleman’s Keyless Silver Hunting, Jewelled,
Brequet Spring, Com-
pensation Balance, En-
pc/iioauiuii j
glish Lever Watch, with
guarantee, for
I
For the Woman who
takes note of time
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise the
purchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Gold
Case jointed, Waltham Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeping', and were made especially to our order by the
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement
and winding work, etc., is
on the same system as the
men’s size. We will post
one free with guarantee
on receipt of
ft
An Ideal Lady’s Watch
is our 15 Jewel American Waltham Keyless Lever in its
18et. Gold, Engraved, Hunting Cases. Manufactured to
suit the Australian climate, it has all the known improve-
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, and is fitted
with best Compensation Balance and Safety Hair Spring.
It is a High-Grade Watch in
every way, and will give
unequalled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
n>
A Special Dust
Protected Watch
and one that has met with general approval, is the “ Excel-
sior.” This is an old favorite of ours, but lately we have
completed important improvements, including the addition
of a full dust cap, which completely covers the works and
excludes all dust and damp. It is a mans Watch, fully
ie welled, g-plate movement, Brequet Spring, Compensation
Balance and has full Hunting Solid Silver Cases. A
splendid country
watch is the Excel-
sior English Lever,
and we post it to-
gether with our war-
ranty, for
MAKERS PRICED
Get a Gold Watch now
Don’t put it off until possession gives you no pleasure, buy
it now whi n you would really find satisfaction and delight
in it. We can supply a 14ct. Gold Filled ( only you can tell
it is not Solid Gold through and through) Watch with a
guarantee by the Waltham Watch Co. that the case will
wear and 1< ok well for five and twenty years. The move-
ment is a fine f-pl te Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Spring Waltham.
No man need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer this exception-
al one, with full
case and movement
guarantte, for
<a
KIDNEY DISEASE, CRAVEL, STONE, &c.
Pertinent Points.
POINT I.— You are more concerned in the
prevention of Kidney disease than in its dis-
covery ; where you discover it, the outlook is
very gloomy, the mere knowledge is enough
to appall the strongest.
POINT 2.— We are particularly concerned in
the prevention and palliation of Kidney
disease, and you can enjoy the benefit of
Kutnow’s Powder or reject it. You are a
perfectly free agent.
POINT 3.— The existence of Kidney disease in
the early stages is very difficult to determine,
and can only be successfully diagnosed by
means of microscopical and chemical examina-
tion of the urine.
POINT 4.— Simple derangement of the urinary
secretion is not evidence of Kidney disease,
but is clear evidence that the Kidneys and
bladder require to be flushed and antisepti-
cally cleansed.
POINT 5 —Further evidence is indicated in
deposits or sediment, white or milky fluid,
pain in the region of the bladder, extending
into the back, thighs, &c., with execretory
scalding sensation.
POINT 6.— The systematic use of Kutnow’s
Powder will increase the efficiency of the
kidneys, keep the bladder clean, and prevent
gravel and stone.
POINT 7.— The main advantage of Kutnow’s
Powder is its entire freedom from sugar, an
essential point where Kidneys are concerned,
especially in Diabetes mellitus which is
characterised by the presence of sugar in the
urine.
POINT B.—The last point is the best point. It
is a recognised fact in medical circles that
Kutnovv’s Powder is the most efficient of all
uric acid Solvents and Eliminators, and in
this respect is a boon to suffering humanity;
it never fails to do good. Try it.
Important Questions
Do you value the health you possess, and do you wish to preserve it
in full manly strength and vigor ?
If you are unfortunately stricken with Kidney disease, are you
willing to try a comforting palliative ?
Would you, if suffering from derangement of the Liver, care to test a
certain remedy for it ?
Are you willing to try something which will improve your general
health and by no possibility do you harm ?
Is it your wish to eat well, digest well, feel well, work well, and
sleep well ?
Then get the grandest remedy in the world for Kidney trouble and
all Uric Acid diseases —-which is undoubtedly Kutnow’s Powder.
The leading physicians of London, Paris, Berlin and New York have
tested the power of Kutnow’s Powder as a natural solvent and
eliminant of Uric Acid.
The result has been a veritable triumph for Kutnow’s Powder. They
not only prescribe it in their private and hospital practice, but
use it personally as a guard against serious disease.
IMPORTANT WARNING!
Kutnow’s Powder can be obtained at all respectable Chemists,
Medicine Vendors and Stores throughout the world. It is necessary,
however, that you discriminate between fraudulent imitations, which
are absolutely worthless, and the genuine Kutnow’s Powder. Do
not be deceived, therefore, by the general appearance of a bottle, but
bear in mind that to be genuine every bottle must have the fac simile
signature, “ S. Kutnow and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade-mark,
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” on the carton and label on the
bottle. This signature and trade-mark should be seen in order to
obtain the
Genuine KUTNOW’S POWDER
Positive Proofs-
“ll3, Gower-street, London, W.C.
“Dear Sirs, —I consider it only fair to apprise
you of the remarkable beneficial results obtained
by the use of Kutnow’s Powder. I purchased a
bottle, and continued with a dose for several
mornings before breakfast. For a long time past
I suffered with severe mental depression, due to
an inactive liver and kidney trouble, with exces-
sive uric acid. Thanks to your efficient remedy,
I no longer fear these distressing attacks, as I find
a single dose corrects any mistakes in diet, and
removes the injurious poisons. In the hope that
my letter may lead others to try what has proved
an invaluable boon to me.—Yours truly,
“H. A. G. BOEDER.”
Nurse Cross writes—
“ 2, Percy-road, Wrexham, July 6, 1904.
“Sirs,—Thank you for Kutnow’s Powder, re-
ceived to-day. Some five years ago I had an acute
attack of nephritis (inflammation of the kidney),
and my doctor advised Harrogate waters. After-
trying them for some time, with very little result,
the doctor suggested giving your Powder a trial,
with such excellent result that in a short time I
felt very milch better. I continued taking it
regularly every other day for two' years, and con-
sider it worked an entire cure. I still take it at
intervals whenever I feel a touch of the complaint,
and never go to a patient without a bottle in my
possession. Many of my patients have tried it,
with excellent results. I think the wonderful
good done in such cases should be widely known
for the benefit of other sufferers.
“ Yours sincerely,
“ MARGARET CROSS (Nurse).”
FLUSH THE KIDNEYS with KUTNOW’S POWDER
Proprietors :S. KUTNOW & GO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.G. Proprietors In U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York. [6—l2]


In the House of Representatives, the
leadership of the Opposition is a shifty office.
The nominal leader is G. Reid, who generally
isn t there. His deputy is J. Cook, who, when in
the House, keeps his pince-nez and his high un-
melodious voice constantly in front of the Speaker.
When both are absent, Wilks takes a turn. Should
Wilks not be available, Pumpkin Smith, Kelly,
or Dugald Thomson, or Lonsdale, or anyone drops
casually into the vacant chair, and questions the
Ministry regarding its intentions for next day, or
next year, or next century. The farce of “ Oppo-
sition leadership” reached its verv best on
the night when the end of the Postal Estimates
was reached. It was midnight, and Williemotor
Kelly was the only Oppositionist. Deakin moved
the adjournment of the House, and Kelly stepped
forward with an air of intense gravity and import-
ance, to inquire the order of business for next day.
For one brief glorious moment, Kelly was Oppo-
sition, Opposition leader, deputy leader, deputy
sub-leader, deputy assistant temporary leader, and
Opposition whip all rolled into one. He was the
most simultaneous Kelly imaginable.
“ Only a few old she-oaks,” said Minister
for Works Lee, ridiculing director Maiden’s
objection to giving up the Macquarie-street end
of Sydney Domain for the new library. “ Only a
few old she-oaks—there is nothing in that, be-
cause there are millions of them in the country,
and thousands are falling every day.” But
director Maiden’s point was that under those very
oak-trees the village Hampdens of the days before
Responsible Government used to hold their meet-
ings and discuss affairs of State. It was purely a
sentiment of “ Woodman, spare that tree.” This
country has just been bellowing about Trafalgar,
yet Nelson’s ship was only a few old pieces of
timber, and the great wooden figurehead of Nelson
which was proudly dabbed down on Trafalgar
Day in front of Sydney Exchange with a white-
washed wooden telescope in its wooden hand and
a flag round its tail, was only a hunk of fuel. But
that was imported sentiment, so Minister Lee
grovelled to it. The other is our own bit of
sentiment, and Lee’s thick timber intellect can
see nothing in it save a few old she-oaks.
“ Woodki” : Some sort of military training
is badly wanted, if for no other reason than to
counteract the verandah-post habit so common
among youths. I know several cases where
joining a militia regiment has made a sturdy,
manly young fellow out of a prospective cigarette-
fiend.
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
MORRIS’S^
Imperial
Eve * *
©intment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores Inshes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-.
Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melb.
' IMPERIAL.”
if-m i\
."V
chemists St stores.
SOME BOOKS s b7 SIR ROBERT!
1
HOME CYCLOPEPIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young'and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
tioOK op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s6dposted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly's Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
ibcluding Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date ComiC Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, IS each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, ls6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted.. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d, Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. ip? - ' Established SO Fears.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s (id. Clog Dancing Made Easy, -Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s Gd post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s Gd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s Gd. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure,. Is 2d posted. Webster's Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Gd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. ■ 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is Gd posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
os. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. BrIDE of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is. post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
c o
# &
<5
<s'
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down ” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunc.ion with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
r\
&
&
S?
*
$
C
$
S>
EHBBBH
MOUNTCASTLE’S,
HATTEBS.
NEW ADDRESS
305 CacorgQ St., Sydney.
GENT’S GOOD HATS.
LI NOLO
GLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC ACENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 5S Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing' Agent—
ALFRED MODN, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
TO
THE
Sufferers from Deafness or Het._ .''oises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. It. VERNON CO
1,0 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
Himself Cured.
TAEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and
Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed enve'ope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CUREby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PPIYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS 'TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—• *
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYZDISTS'X'.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertis'd rem-dy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, Will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your nanp
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTKIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure al l cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and St >mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Wea' ness of Men and Women.
iUe will giue free
to us one copy . f our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in-any way
de’ay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book a:.d Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Plea c e mention this paper.
Superior
to
ASS Others „
Jh e Xaqcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benqer’s admirable
preparation.’’
British jftedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
FOOD
* nd lhe AGED.
Benqer * fooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.


DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph.
"S
£5
V
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOEFtZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BQURKE ST., MELBOURNE
fa*'
is
m
K
£
Its
-
v»
a
Line
«im cc
AGENTS:
Elliott Bros., Ltd..
J. Connell & Co.,
Sydney ,
-7. Cohen & Co.,
Newcastle.
This
Trade
Mark
3CgRCLO77gh
&
AERTEX
tPNDQIi
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRA HAM & CO.
75 Kina Street, Sydney.
THIS . - .
ELECTRIC BATTERY
SHOULD BE IN
EVERY HOME .
It is a necessity in every home. It won’t
cure everything'. It WILL cure ailments
where electricity is required, and is better
and ten times more effective than all the
electric belts ever made. It is a perfect
battery, and has dry cells. It can be made
so weak that a child can stand it, or so
strong that any man will be satisfied with
it. Simple to work. It is a doctor in
your home.
Price 35/= POST FREE.
Send foe Full Partioulabs.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd
•MY OPTICIANS
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET (facing Royal Hotel) » SYDNEY.
PASTORALISTS
SUPPORT THOSE
WHO HELP YOU.
The Pastoral Finance Assn. Ltd. (P.F.A.)
HELPS YOU.
This Company is freezing for Export over 40,000 carcases
per month—keeping up prices at Homebush Yards.
SUPPORT THE P.F.A.
by sending them your WOOL and PRODUCE for Sale.
Consignments should be advised to the Company at . . .
Head-Office, 13 Phillip St., SYDNEY.
Manager : T. C. BOYD.
«
m
1
WHSaWi
Use
Our Belt
If you
want
Health
and
Strength.
It is a
Natural
Cure!
Our
FREE
BOOKS
will tell
you how
to regain
your
Vigor
and
Vitality.
u/E KNOW that no one remains a Weakling because he want to. We are sure you want to
** overcome any symptom of early decay that has shown itself on you, and we know that
;f you have a reasonable foundation to build upon we can make you a Strong, Healthy, and
Vigorous Being. We want to send you the names of many who, when they came to us, were
physical Wrecks, and who are now among the Finest Specimens of Physical Manhood. We have
cured thousands of men and women who were suffering from a Weak and Wasted Condition
of both Brain and Body, and other troubles.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
is the only Natural Cure for Rheumatism, Weak Back, Loss of Vital Power, Nervousness,
Sciatica, Lumbago, Varicocele, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Stomach, Liver, and Kidney Troubles,
etc. It gives back to the system the element which, when wasted through Excesses, causes
most of the Ailments that Men and Women suffer from.
SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM, AND LAME BACK.
DRAKE, via TENTERFIELD, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs.—l have much pleasure in informing you that your Belt has given great satis-
faction. Before I got it I was very bad with Sciatica, Rheumatism, and Lame Back, was
unable to walk, and could not stoop to lace my boots. I could not lie on my back without
losing the power of my arms and legs, and could not get sleep for the pain. But since wearing
your Belt I am a different man altogether, and when people ask me what has made the change,
I tell them that the Dr. McLaughlin Electric Belt did it all.
Thanking you for your kindness and advice, I am, Yours truly,
° E. H. HERTRAMPF.
LU
LXJ
Q=
uu
WHIT® to-day for our FREE BOOK. It is full of facts, proofs, and items
of interest relative to the marvellous curative and invigorating powers
of our Belt and Attachments. It contains 96 pages of Sound Advice and
Information about the many ailments Electricity cures, and, also,
so illustrations, showing how we apply the current to the limbs or body where there may
be weakness or pain. We will send you one FREE and POSTAGE?AID on application.
«•/_ Inuita Vmi to avail yourself of our FREE CONSULTATION and
We Specially invite YOU AD vice. Call, if you possibly can, and person-
ally examine this Wonderful Appliance. Our Offices are Open Daily from 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
If you cannot call you should take advantage of our SPECIAL DIAGNOSIS SYSTEM, which
enables us to treat you as well IN YOUR OWN HOME as if you visited our Specialist.
Surely our treatment is worthy of the consideration of every ailing man and woman.
It must be right, that’s certain, when we can produce thousands of letters from cured
people. Every man and woman that has used our Belt praises it, and so would you 1
the McLaughlin go.,
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
AND AT 167 E. SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
SO WILLIAM STREET, PERTH.
54 WILLIS BTRSST, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
William Charles Cranford
Harry Joseph Crawford
r
L
"Is superior even to meat and of
Inestimable value as a food.”
—Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
•• A diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL &
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,"
&
X?
* Xp
«y
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MED1CAT0R.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge,passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
H eadach e, Neural gi a, Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, .or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Drunkeness Cured.
EUCRASy may be given in Tea, Coffee, or Food,,
thus Secretly Curing the Patient ■without his
knowledge or consent.
23*
Mrs. J. HATTON,, whoi
cured her: husband with
Eucrasy, now writes us-
that she has also cured a-
near and dear relative,
and makes a most earnest
appeal to all other women
to save the Drunkard..
Send name and address
to the
EUGRASY CO., 62 Hunter St, } Sydney,
and they will send you booklet and particulars
FREE..
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
aid a (Feet ion, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free (f charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about thi < marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Eeruember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
s» ro f. R. H. BARRADEN, U 9 Pitt St., Sydney>
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WOULD WANTS TO KNOW
IS. HOW TO CURE IT..
gift's
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English (Jure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
BO restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
, throughout the Australian Colonies.
DRUNKENNESS CURED
Secretly or otherwise at home, at small cost, guaranteed ;
a revelation in treatment. Book post free. Write to
ERASMUS CAMPBELL, Melbourne Chambers, 271
COLLINB STREET, MELBOURNE.


CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NflW fIPFN NEWCASTLE TATTERSALL’S CUP, Newcastle, N.S.W., December 9 •••
, »« Ur _ SUMMER CUP, Randwiek, N.S.W., December 26
T" PERTH CUP, Perth, W.A., December 28
LAUNCESTON CUP, Launceston, Tas., 25th January, 1906
50,000 at 5 2 each,
50,000 at 5 2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d . on each
ss, Ticket, and 4d. on each 10Sm Ticketm Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
True to Nature.
WOLFF’S
IMPORTED..
O*
THE FINEST (
PERFUME
IN THE MARKET.
SOLD BY ALL
Chemists and Storekeepers,
sole: agents.
LOHNIANN & Go. p Melbourne & Sydney.
fSSki
AYS
naira
un.uium.mujj
LLiILIU
fe.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
thcb famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
IOIBJ'W.A.FME OIF* COUGHS l
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS.
A Sydney Stock and Share Broker expresses
Gratitude and Appreciation of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
It proved a most effective remedy for a
severe attack of Bronchitis.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I lately had a severe
attack of Bronchitis, and, acting' on the advice of a friend,
obtained a supply of your Bronchitis Oure. lam pleased
to inform you it has proved a most effective remedy,
causing me to feel grateful to you for furnishing such a
valuable medicine to the public. May you meet with the
success you so well deserve. I place this communica-
tion at your service, and remain, Dear Sir, Yours
faithfully, HENRY FRENCH,
Stock and Share Broker, 93-Pitt-street, Sydney.
ASTHMA.
A Five Years case.
At times very bad indeed.
Quickly and completely Cured by Hearne’s
“ Bronchitis and Asthma Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—For five or six years I was
troubled with asthma, at times very bad indeed. 1 was
very ill just after Christmas, so sent to the local chemist
for a bottle of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I took
the first dose on going to bed, and was not troubled that
night. I finished the medicine, and have not had a
touch of the asthma since. I tell everyone about it.
M. MURRAY.
Postmistress, Pampoolah, Manning River, N.S.W.
HAY ASTHMA.
A Severe Attack Believed in Ten Minutes
by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
The Effect was "Wonderful.
Mr. W. G. Hearne Dear Sir, —About three weeks ago,
while in the vicinity of musty chaff, I gradually felt
a difficulty to breathe. My nose began to run, and to all
appearances I was developing a severe attack of Bron-
chitis or Asthma. At last I could stand it no longer. I
then tried your Bronchitis Cure, and its effect was
wonderful. In less than ten minutes I was all right
again. Such a result, and so quick, astounded me.
This is no exaggeration, I am pleased to say.—Yours
truly, S. H. MAYO, Meredith, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA,
A Sydney Resident Suffered for Over Sixty
Years.
So Bad He Dared Hot Stir.
Relieved in a Few Minutes by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Would Give £5O for the Same Benefit rather
than Suffer.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Friend, —Chronic Bronchitis I had from birth, and
I am now 66 years old. Some time back I contracted
Asthma, and for months I was so bad that any remedy
that had previously relieved smothering’ was of no use to
me. I was so bad that I dared not stir, and spent the
worst night I ever had. When, in a conversation, Mr.
Marsh, J.P., of Balmain, Sydney, kindly told me that a
friend of his was using your Bronchitis Cure, and that it
was good. So my sister bought me a bottle of it, and in
a few minutes after taking the first dose I could breathe a
littl e. The next day I was better, and kept getting better
every day. To-day lam better than I have been for the
last seven years. I took the medicine as directed, six
bottles, and it cost me less than £l. I would give £5O for
the same benefit rather than suffer as I did. Please make
what use of this letter you think fit. If by so doing it
would only cause one to get rid of this fearful complaint.
—Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM CANHAM,
108 Curtis Road, Balmain, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE,
Its Efficacy in chest complaints testified to
by a Grateful Victorian.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in
adding my testimony in praise of your invaluable Bron-
chitis Cure. I have used it for the last three or four years,
and its efficacy I have fully proved in common colds,
severe colds, croupy coughs, and other similar chest com-
plaints. I have given it to infants a few weeks old, young
children and adults of all ages, and have never known it
to fail in relieving at once, and rapidly effecting a cure
with a few doses. I have, recommended it to many of my
friends, and they have fully proved its wonderful curative
properties. I feel very grateful to you for a chest medi-
cine so valuable, and cheap enough to be available to any-
one. Trusting its present popularity and sales will be
doubled, I am, yours very gratefully,
EDWARD JONES,
Mount Bruno, Mokoan, via Glenrowan, Vic.
BRONCHITIS-
An English. Lady so ill that the Doctor
held out no hope.
Was given Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and it
effected a complete recovery.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir.—Not long since I had occasion
to visit the old country, and before leaving Melburne pur-
chased a bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, which I took
with me. When I arrived in Leeds 1 found that my niece,
Miss O. Matthews, was suffering from a very severe attack
of Bronchitis, in fact, she was so bad that the family doctor
held out no hope of her recovery. She was then given
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure according to the direction on
the label, and I am very pleased to say that it effected a
complete cure. R. J. MATTHEWS,
c/o Allan & Co., Collins-st., Melbourne.
ASTHMA.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Sir, —I am thankful to say that the medicine you sent
for asthma has had a wonderful effect. I have not taken
all the Bronchitis Cure, as I did not need it ; therefore
I send you my hearty good wishes for your future success.
I myself will, for the benefit of others, make it known to
all I know. lam 73 years of age.—Yours truly,
JOHN BRAY,
Alliance-street, Clunes, Victoria.
BRONCHO-PNEUMONIA.
Two Severe Cases cured by One Bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward without
delay another small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. The
bottle I had from you has cured two of my children, but I
do not feel safe without it in the house. I have also re-
commended it to my friends. I lost a fine little girl, three
years of age, from influenza and Broncho-Pneumonia. I
really believe if I had had your medicine my child would
not have died, for the other two, a boy five years old, and
a baby 8 months old, were suffering exactly in the same
way, and it acted like magic on them ; in fact, a small
bottleful cured both of them ; so trusting you will forward
it without delay—l am, yours most gratefully,
(Mrs.) E. D. WARD.
Cassilis, via Swift’s Creek, Gippsland, Vic.
A Queensland Sufferer from Bronchitis.
Seventy-two years of age, weak and
Wasted.
The Doctor considered it a hopeless case.
Cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I beg leave to draw your
attention to a remarkable Cure of Bronchitis, which disease
attacked me last May. It was looked upon by the doctor
as a hopeless case. In such an extremity I naturally
looked about for something to try. I thought it a hard
thing, after 72 years’ experience of the ups and downs of
this life, to die in such an inglorious manner ; besides, I
was very poor in flesh, and thin, and this stimulated me
to make an effort for recovery, if only to improve my con-
dition. I saw your Bronchitis Cure advertised, and
thought I would give it a trial, so I sent to W. H. Harris,
chemist, Gill-street, Charters Towers, and got a small
bottle of it. I had scarcely finished it when I gave up all
thought of leaving my wife a widow, and hopefully looked
forwarded to many more delightful days of up and downs,
principally downs. The second small bottle caused the
Bronchitis and me to part company, greatly to its regret,
I opine. The third bottle stood me on my legs to receive
the congratulations of my friends.
I have been a resident of Charters Towers for 30 years,
and, being gifted with the spirit of good fellowship, have
not the least objection to you making any use of this
testimonial you think proper, as a means of relieving
others similarly situated to myself.
JOHN SHEPHERD,
Queenton, Charters Towers, Queensland.
Relieved by one dose of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and cured by two bottles.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony
to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for nine months, and the cough was so dis-
tressingly bad at nights, I was obliged to get up and sit
hy the fire. I had medical advice, and tried other
remedies, without avail. I tried yours, and never had a
fit of coughing after taking the first dose, and though I
have had but two bottles, I feel I am a different man, and
the cough has vanished. You may depend upon my
making known the efficacy of your wonderful remedy to
anyone I see afflicted.—Yours faithfully,
JAMES ASTBURY,
Dergholm, Victoria
HEAHNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6cL
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
—"-"•■— Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


The Cave-Man’s Wife.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WANDER not far, my child, my child !
The stars are dim and the winds are
wild,
And out in the dark the lions roam ;
Then bide thee here till the man comes home.
“ For the man is great in thew and limb.
And the tawny ones skulk wide of him ;
He went from here when the day was fresh,
And home he’ll come with the red deer’s flesh.
“ Pile the pine-knots,” and she piled them higher ;
And her hair was red as the red pine fire ;
And to and fro as she walked the cave,
It swept and rippled a lustrous wave.
“ Wander not far, my child, for see,
In the dark outside, they wait for thee;
Their eyes are green, their jaws are wide,
And they pace and prowl in the night outside.
“ Child, O my child, the hours grow long,
But fear no fear, for the man is strong;
He went from here when the moon was fresh,
And home he’ll come with the red deer’s flesh.
“ He said, ‘ Keep thou this child from hurt,
Lest they, the woodland things, alert
To whet their jaws should find and slay.’
He left his couch at break of day.
“ Only last tiight, with his knotted club
He slew the maneless lion’s cub ;
Wherefore, my child, it is clear to me
The maneless one doth wait for thee.
“Listen ! All night, though winds are high,
I catch her vengeful forest-cry ;
Then draw thee close to the good red fire,
And pile the pine-knots high and higher.
“Sweet, wouldst thou sleep? Then lay thy head
Here on these arms, and dread no dread,
The fire burns red—they dare not show
Within the circle of its glow.
“ Child, 0 my child, thy tears are warm
Upon the pillowing of my arm;
Thou dream’st! When lions fall asleep,
Do lions also sigh and weep ?
“ Eyes like the blue of bending skies,
Thou hast, my child, and in them lies
A light, a shade, a mystery
That bird nor beast doth share with thee*
“Yea, it is so, I think that they
Who roam the woods by night and day
With padded feet and tangled brow,
Are not, my child, the same as thou.
“ Hark ! it is he. Awake ! Awake !
I hear a neat cry in the brake;
The blood upon his arms is red ;
Hb shakes the forest with his tread.”
So to the fire he draws him near,
And casteth dbwn the new-slain deet,
And notes, as she piles the pine-knots higher,
That her hair is red as the red pine fire.
N.s.w.
RODERIO QUINN.
Only a Letter.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY Dear Man, —
Fancy your keeping your word about
not writing to me unless I wrote first!
My beautiful disposition prompts me to be
magnanimous, and you will be pleased with me—
if you ever get this.
I told you I would never come back to the old
life, and I will not. But that was a nice time
after the theatre when you came home with me
and drank whisky and soda—and talked. How
we talked ! But I meant no more than you did,
you nice big man. I asked you what you most
liked about me, and you said, “Your wit!”
Then you said, “ Your pretty hair,” and kissed it.
I can’t think why I let you, for I promised never
to take you seriously, and you said in a rather
annoyed tone, “ Thank Heaven, I have met one
sensible woman ! ” I had such pretty shoes and
stockings on that night; do you remember ?
Well, I am quite happy here —at least I think I
am. Big cities do go to one’s head, and as for
dinner in town, a hansom and a theatre —why,
they are absolute bliss. Men in towns are so
kind. At first, when they all held my arm
crossing streets and getting into trams, I took it
for a spasm of affection. Now I know it is sim-
ply kindness of heart. Last Friday I really had
a busy day. I’ve got a new hat—all roses. You
will like it—l mean you would if you ever saw it
—and a silk petticoat (you’ll never see that), and I
had morning tea with a nice, good man who takes
me seriously. We talked politics, travels, books,
and I really met with his approval—but I do like
a more personal note ; I haven’t got much time
for fun. I shall soon be rapidly descending the
hills of time, on legs, thank Heaven, not too Chip-
pendale for their burden. Lunch was more to my
fancy—another woman and two men. We agreed
that we all had a weakness for dainty food and
were cursed with no consciences.
At four we went on board a war boat to after-
noon tea, which was champagne. My officer had
such a nice cabin. I asked him if he had read
“ Captain Amyas, ” and he walked over to me and
looked so queer that I found it was getting late.
I haven't read the book myself. Sailors are so
excitable—aren’t they ? Then we had two han-
soms, and took a little carriage exercise ; our
hansom seemed so small ! Finally, we went to an
hotel for dinner —our dress-baskets were there,
and I wore a new and very becoming dress—pale-
pale green, with lovely iridescent trimming all over
the skirt. The body- was pretty—open at the
ba,ck, open at the front, and sleeves of the same.
Dinner was a lengthy feast, and we both found
the fashionable waist a little trying. We
went to a very amusing play, and the hero
was so like you, he made me feel delightfully
reminiscent.
Supper after the theatre, and hansoms home ;
the men wanted to come in and smoke, but we
were firm, and said we didn’t keep a Sailors’ Rest.
I’m glad you never wrote to me, but your letters
would be entertaining. You’re really rather
clever, you know, in your way ; and you’re so nice
and big. I always look upon you as a sort of
widower since you told me you had been true to
one woman for 10 years, with very occasional
lapses—you are so charmingly candid.
I met a man with a lovely voice the other night.
He sang my soul into thin air when he started
“TheSweetest Flower that Blows.” It reminded
me of that last evening when you sang it to me.
He was as nice as his voice, too; which is unusual.
And he had read all the books I like, and told me
I was like Dolly in Anthony Hope’s book. I
laughed and said, “ Ten years ago.”
He is coming to see me to-morrow night. He
is well-off, but too young. I shouldn’t like to be
accused of child-stealing at my age. O ! I’m
going to be very careful and say very little ; for
though open confession is good for the soul, it’s
very bad for the reputation.
I’m never going to write to you again ; and I
hope I shall never meet you. I really mean it !
But, if I do, will you have altered ? Or will you be
the amusing, cynical wretch you always were ? I
am cultivating conventionality and domesticated
habits, so could no longer appeal to you.
Good-bye—I’m never coming back !
K.
Along the Castlereagh.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JACK REGAN returned to the Castle-
reagh after 10 years’ absence. The young-
sters had forgotten him ; even the old men
found it difficult to recall him. Still he had been
kept in their minds. Whenever the district was
inclined to forget Jack, his mother would produce
his last letter written in a far land, and read its
contents to her neighbors. There was always
money in Jack’s letters and he was always on the
eve of a big financial coup.
A small crowd gathered at widow Regan’s on
the night of her son’s home-coming. The lamp
was placed carefu. 1 " in the centre of the table
while the visitors rega h d him solemnly.
He sat near the fireplace, his stiff hands grip-
ping his knees. His face was paler than most
men’s and his eyes remained fixed on the opposite
wall.
“ How did ye get on, Jack lad, whin ye left
Australia? How did the sea fit ye?” Uncle
Jim leaned across the table while aunt silently
kicked his shins. “ How did ye get on, lad, when
the ship started a-rowlin’ ? ” added uncle.
“He never took much interest in ships,”
answered his mother, quickly. “He never was
fond of ships.”
A depressing silence fell upon the crowd. The
home-comer stared dumbly at the opposite wall;
his stiff hands seemed to cling desperately to his
knees.
Bobbie, who was not to be suppressed, edged
towards the fireplace, and looked into the face of
the widow’s son.
“ Have yer been up North, Mister Regan—by
the Gulf, I mean, where the pearl-fishers are ?
Did yer see anyone divin’ for pearl ? ”
Jack Regan stared at Bobbie with the eyes of a
man who had seen live things crawl on the floors
of Gehenna.
“ I’d a-gone North with a schooner only for
mother,” Bobbie added.
Casey in the far corner smoked thoughtfully.
“It do be harrd worrk thravellin’. Have ye been
in Morocco, Jack?” he asked, sorrowfully.
“Morocco has good sile, I hears. Phwat kind
iv plough do they use in Morocco, Jack ? ”
The widow looked at Casey half-pleadingly.
“It’s a longtime since he was in Morocco,” she
said, hurriedly, “ and he has such a bad memory.
Jack’s been in so many places. ”
She stole timidly to the kitchen and returned
quickly with a tray full of biscuits and thick slices
of cake.
“Araby is a foine counthry neow,” put in
Moloney, pleasantly. “The sile is soft, an’ the
beeutiful horses throt betune the palm threes.”
Moloney was a contractor, but bricks and mortar
had not effaced his ideas of landscape poetry.
“ Did ye call at Araby on yer way out, Jack ? ”
“Out—out,” repeated the widow’s son.
1 ‘ Where ?’ ’ He looked half-savagely at Moloney,
his eyes growing large, as though a clock or a
hammer were striking between his temples.
“How can he remember such places?” His
mother regarded Moloney somewhat anxiously.
“He has visited hundreds of places. The letters
he used to write from different parts of the world
are quite confusing. America is one of the
places.” She paused emphatically. “The United
States of America.”
Moloney’s baby crawled round to the fireplace
and clutched wildly at Jack Regan’s knees. He
looked down suddenly, and then slowly, labori-
ously his hands unlocked themselves, as though
bands of steel had hooked his fingers. With a
slow fear in his face, he bent and touched the
baby on the cheek. The child grew suddenly
rigid ; then howled bitterly.
The widow seemed to be holding herself, as
though in the presence of a tragedy. “Hush,
hush, deary.” She stooped and took the child in
her arms.
“ Poor Jack isn’t used to little ones. Those
foreigners have spoilt him.”
Casey and Bobbie ate all the cake. Moloney
was the first to leave, saying that he had to finish
a game of crib at the Swag and Pannikin. Uncle
Jim and aunt slipped away with Casey and his
wife.
Only Judy Oroonan stayed. She was 90 years
old, and she remembered Sydney in the convict
days. Her skin was almost black with age and
the heat of many summers. She nibbled a biscuit,
and her fingers trembled about her mouth with
ape-like insistence. She stared at the silent
Regan with the eyes of a bird.
“Ye deceived them all to-night, John,” she
half-whispered ; “ all but me and the little child.”
He did not look up; his hands had regained
the vice-grip on his knees.
“John, ye’ve been in gaol nearly half your life.
Ye’ve the cell-liobble in your walk. Look at your
shoulders ” —she tapped him slightly with her
finger—“the gaol-stoop, the convict’s back.”
She broke into querulous laughter. “Round an’
round the yard ye go, week, month and year.”
The widow Regan shrank from the terrible bird-
like eyes, the uplifted finger. “Round an’ round ye
went, John Regan, an’ through the night ye
heard the fool howling in the next cell. Yer ears
pricked for the padded footstep of the warder.
Ten years of it ; eh God ! an’ you a boy.”
She crooked her finger at the white-faced man,
Lien limped to the door and passed out.
“Mother.” He looked round slowly, and his
face kindled suddenly. “I’ll make a fresh start
to-morrow. If my bed’s ready I’ll turn in.”
Long after midnight, when the cattle bells were
wandering plaintively about the homestead, he
heard a tapping at his bedroom door.
“ What do you want, mother ? ” he asked.
“ What are cell-hobbles, Jack ?”
“ Oh, it’s a short stride ye drop into pottering
up and down a narrow cell. It might wear off.
Good-night, mother !”
“Good-night, Jack !”
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
LIVER DISEASE CAN BE CURED.
From Mr. Charles Newson, 7 Taylor Street, Surry Hills, Sydney, 10th March, 1905.
“For three years I suffered from liver complaint, dizziness in the head, spasmodic pains in
the upper part of the abdomen, sick headache, frequent vomiting of bitter matter, accompanied
by a feeling of depression and a disinclination for exertion. I was induced to try Warner’s Safe
Cure, and, after taking that medicine, I was promptly relieved from all pain. Since then, my
health has been most satisfactory.”
From Mrs. Margaret l)oig, 60 Helen Street, Northcote, Vic., 25th February, 1905.
“For nearly three years, previous to a few months ago, I was afflicted with liver and kidney
trouble in a very severe form. I suffered intense pain in the back and under the shoulder blades,
and there was a sense of weight and pain in the region of the liver. I also had indigestion and
other symptoms of general ill-health. Nothing seemed to give me relief until I took Warner’s
Safe Cure, and then I got relief from the first bottle I took. I continued to take Warner’s Safe
Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills for some time longer, when all traces of the complaint left me, and
there has been no return of it up to the present; in fact, my health has been most satisfactory
in every respect.”
From Mr. Robert Wt"e, Fitzroy Street, Rockhampton, Q., 11th March, 1905.
“My wife suffered from very severe bilious attacks. She had medical advice, but derived no
benefit from the treatment. Having myself had experience of the value of Warner’s Safe Cure, I per-
suaded her to try that medicine. After taking two bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and a phial of
Warner’s Safe Pills she was completely restored to health. I can heartily recommend Warner’s Safe
Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills to anyone suffering from biliousness.”
From Mr. Cecil Thompson, 17 Womerah Avenue, Rushcutters’ Bay, Sydney, N.S.W., 9th March,
1905.
“Two years ago I had serious disease of the liver, indigestion, dizzy headaches, and great pain
in my chest and stomach. I tried various remedies to obtain relief, but without succeeding. I was
nearly in despair, when I happened to see a pamphlet which was left at my house, containing a
number of letters from people, who, after suffering in a similar way to myself, had been cured by
taking Warner’s Safe Cure. So I thought if it would cure others, why should it not cure me, and
resolved to give it a trial. I did so, with the happy result that, in a few weeks, I was quite cured and
in the enjoyment of good health. Since that time I have been quite free from the complaint.”
From the Rev. H. E. Lewin, Warrnambool, Vic., 14th July, 1904.
“I am thankful to say that I believe your medicines (Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe
Pills) have completely cured the biliousness from which I suffered so long. lam now in the best of
health. I hope many others will derive the same benefit from your medicines as I have.”
From Mrs. A. M‘Donald, 52 Comber-street, Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W., 7th March, 1905.
“ I suffered from liver complaint and indigestion, and, as I grew older, I became a martyr to it.
After every meal I had a sense of oppression at the chest, and was troubled by severe pain in the
back and under the' shoulder blades. I was reduced to a condition of great weakness ; I dreaded to
stoop to pick up anything, as stooping made me feel quite faint and dizzy. For years I suffered in
this way, and could get no relief until Warner’s Safe'Cure was brought to my notice. A course of
that medicine not only gave me great relief, but, I believe, has added years to my life, far I now feel
a great deal younger. I can now eat and sleep well, the pains and dizziness have all left me, and I
am in the best of health.”
From Mr. Albert Ross, 53 Oxford Street, Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W., Bth March, 1905.
“ Having taken Warner’s Safe Cure for liver complaint and dyspepsia, I am glad to add my testi-.
monv as to its value. For about eight months I suffered intense pain in the shoulders, chest, and
other parts of the body. There was nearly always a sense of fullness and oppression after meals ;in
fact, nearly everything I ate gave me great pain. Talking to a, friend about my trouble, he advised
me to get a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure, as he had himself derived great benefit from taking it. I
followed his advice, and was soon relieved; I believe I am permanently cured, as I have had no
return of the symptoms since that time.”
From Mrs. E. Limpus, "78 Cantonment Street, Fremantle, W.A., 6th October, 1904.
“ For many years I suffered from disease of the Liver, which caused great physical prostration
and mental depression. After suffering all that time, on the recommendation of a friend, I decided to
take a course of Warner’s Safe Cure. lam pleased to say that the good effects were apparent almost
immediately after I commenced to take the medicine, and since that time my health has been most>
satisfactory.”
A treatise containing valuable diet directions will be sent, post free, by H. H. Warner and Qo.
Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne, Vic. f 3
WOMEN’S
SORE
ZAM-BUK PROVED INVALUABLE.
HEAVY duties at home and in business tell their tale in tired
feet. The “tiredness,” if neglected, may lead to veritable
in grave ulcers and sores. All women who have to. be o
day understand the danger of complications of this kind,
ulcerated legs are diseases hard to cure once they
have been allowed to develop. Years may elapse,
until the case is well-nigh incurable. The sufferer
is unable to follow her daily round of duties, and
the swelling and inflammation may produce agony
unbearable. When the disease has reached this
stage, but if possible before, the affected parts
should be liberally anointed with Zam-Buk.
Each ulcer after being smeared with the
balm should be carefully bandaged, and if
the dressings be duly persevered in, the
patient is soon likely to be on the high-road
to recovery. Zam-Buk has frequently proved
successful in the most obstinate and long-
standing cases. In proof of which Mrs.
Margaret Gunson, of 157 Hoddle-street,
West Richmond, Melbourne, says:—“l
am a canvasser and am, therefore, con-
stantly on my feet. Eour weeks ago my
insteps became very tender and broke out
in sores, which forced me to lay up for
several days. I applied different lotions
procured from the chemist, but they
utterly failed to give me relief. Seeing
Zam-Buk advertised, I procured a pot.
Before I had used half of it the sores
were all healed, and the burning, irri-
tating feeling had left my feet. The
soothing effect of the first few applica-
tions was indeed wonderful. I shall never
fail to recommend Zam-Buk where a re-
liable healing balm is required.”
limbs and aching
torture, ending
n their feet all
Bad ankles and
\ \
\ '
w
v
*
Every Housewife Needs Zam-Buk.
■
n


Chanties.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the runner from the boarding-
house has thrown you on the ship,
Disregardin’ all your protests, to make
the Southern trip;
When your head’s a buzzin’ beehive with a
hornet’s nest on top,
And you’d pawn your soul for liquor, but you
cannot get a drop,
Then they boot you from the fo’castle—trampin’
round and round you go,
Heavin’ up the bloomin’ anchor to a chanty sad
and slow.
’ Way down Rio ! ’ Way down Rio !
Fare you well, my bonnie young girl—
We’re bound for the Rio Grande !
When a month at sea is over, and you’ve started
earning pay—
When you’ve worked out your advance-note, and
the crowd is feelin’ gay—
Then the dead horse will be hoisted to the loo’ard
mainyard arm
(It’s a sort o’ stuffed resemblance of the sort that’s
on a farm);
An’ first you drag it round the decks—it’s just a
shellback’s play—
And you sing the dead-horse chorus loud before
you hoist away.
Old man, old man ! your horse is dead.
And they say so. And they hope so.
Old man, old man ! your horse is dead.
Ah ! poor old man !
When she’s divin’ through the rollers, threshin’
round the bitter Horn,
When you curse the frozen canvas, and you
wonder why you’re born,
When your hands have lost their feeling, and your
toes begin to freeze,
And the hail is raising blisters through your slop-
chest dungarees,
When the foot-ropes slip from under, and the
lines refuse to coil,
Oh, it’s gaudy reefin’ tops’ls to the tune of “ Paddy
Doyle.”
Oh, we’ll heave aye, and we’ll haul aye,
An’ we’ll pay Paddy Doyle for his boots.
When the voyage is nearly ovqr, and her nose is
pointed back,
When the girls have got the tow-rope an’ they’re
hauling in the slack,
There is little time for sleeping, there is little
watch below,
For the westerlies are hummin’, and the barky
has to go ;
There is many a mile to travel to the docks at
London town,
So its “Set the main to’ gallant,” and we strike
up “ Sally Brown.”
I love a maid across the water,
Oh, ho, roll and go,
She’s Sally herself and Sally’s daughter,
And I spent my money on Sally Brown.
When you’re twistin’ up the river—when at last
you are in tow,
When you've trimmed the yards all shipshape-
given the kites their harbor stow,
When you’re packin’ up your oilskins, an’ your,
hook-pot, and your bed,
And wonderin’ how you’ll like it, with a roof
above your head,
When you’re thinkin’ of the pay day, when the
girls come flockin’ roun’,
You will catch yourself a hummin’ the song of
“ Blow Him Down.”
As I was a walkin’ down Paradise-street,
Hey, ho, blow the man down !
A pretty young lass I chanced to meet,
Oh, give us some time to blow the man down !
M.L.
TAIWA.
The Packman.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Packman divided a lump of bread with
his rusty knife, and handed it over with
the billy.
“There,” he said, “yer kin git yerself outside
o’ that lot. There’s a pannikin behind yer.”
The Packman’s hands were unclean, and the
fuchsia firewood had made the tea smell vilely of
onions. But I wanted it too badly to be particu-
lar. For I had just done 15 miles of Otago hills
on creek-water and three pipes, long-drawn-out.
“ Did yer happen—happen ter see ’’—the Pack-
man was nosing round in the broken manuka
scrub—“ Did I bring my pick up the hill ?”
He had left it in the mouth of the drive, where
I had found him. I half got on my feet to go for
it; but he pushed me back.
“ Sit down, you wi’ yer wimbly legs. Men
ain’t what they used ter be. I’m wuth three o’
yer yet.”
He crashed through the scrub and over the
comb of the hill, with the oilskins flapping wetly
round his long bent figure. I heard him stumble
down among the rocks, splash into the race with
a grate of falling shingle behind him, and wade
up towards the tip-head. Followed a squeal of
delight, and a girl’s voice, high and excited :
“ Maudie ! Maudie ! Here’s a real digger in a
claim. Tell him to stand out in the middle while
I get the camera on him.”
The other voice was shriller yet. It explained
things to the Packman with six notes of exclama-
tion, and I heard him wading back.
“ I ain’t workin’ no more ter-day,” he said.
“Oh, but just for a few minutes. We want to
take your photograph. .. Maudie, hold him
there till I get the finder. . . Maudie ! ”
I wriggled to the edge, and looked over. The
Packman was clambering out of his race where
the water romped cleanly down to the rotten old
wooden boxes. The two girls were in the manuka
on the far side, fluttering, and taking uncertain
sights with a kodak.
“We’ll give you half-a-crown—five shillings.
I’ve been looking for a digger all day... Well,
you can get the back of him, anyway, Lil.”
The Packman scrambled hurriedly, but I heard
the click. Then he flopped down in the manuka
beside me, pulled off a boot, and emptied out the
water.
“Them petticuts is allers arter me,” he said.
“But they ain’t got much this time. A gel
caught me t’other day in me shirt an’ trouses —
’fore I’d mended ’em up, too.”
He jerked off his other boot with a swish, cast
his oilskins, snakewise, and sat in the sunshine,
steaming. He was a very old man, and the
wreck of what had once been a powerful man,
too. His big hook nose had sinuous veins down
it, and hair sprouted from his nostrils. The face
was mostly hair; but the cheeks and mouth showed
in-fallen, and the few broken teeth were yellow.
“Five bob isn’t bad for standing a couple of
minutes,” I suggested.
“Don’t want it,” said the Packman. “I can’t
never drink more’n four-ten at ago now—shouting
the crowd an’ all. An’ I got four-ten. That five
bob’d on’y go to Hagan, an’ he’s got ’nough out’r
me already. I ain’t goin’ ter set fur my photer in
that race, catchin’ bronchiter fur ter rake in five
bob fur Hagan.”
He searched the pockets of his tattered cardigan
with unsteady, knotted hands, and I asked diffi-
dently :
“ Do you mean that you drink every penny you
make? ”
“Not till I kin do a proper bust.” The Pack-
man brought out a stinking pipe and a plug. “ I
can’t git beyond four-ten now—not to remember
it. I used ter, mind yer. I used ter. When
there was two thousan’ men on the field, an’ me
packin’ from Gore reg’ler, I cud put down my
twenty in a night, an’ pull out fur Gore in the
morn’n. You couldn’t do that, young feller.”
“No,” I said humbly.
“ No. Nor none o’ this gen’ration can’t. Tell
yer, we cud stan’ up ter our stuff then. There
w r as Watty Mills, he carr’d a sack o’ flour from
the Old Gully ’crost the hill there ter the crik—a
matter o’ two mile—fer three drinks. ‘ Blow yer,’
he said, backin’ up ter it agin in the crik, ‘ I’ll
carr’ it back fur three more.’ He bruk hisself in-
side an’ it killed him, o’ course. But he ’ad his
fun.” He thrust out a lean hand and arm where
the muscles twisted like rata vines on a dead tree.
“ See the cronk way that sets at the elber ? It tuk
five men an’ a bobby ter do that.” He worked it
proudly with his other withered hand, and his old
crumpled body seemed to swell and gather
strength. “ Thirty poun’ I put down that night,
an’ it tuk five men an’ a bobby ter holt me. Then
Marsh, ’e got a handcuff on, an’ that’s the way
this was did. But they’d never ’a’ got me—they’d
never ’a’ got ine if I’d ’ad room ter swing out.
Sherriff’s bar wasn’t no place fur men ter fight
in.”
He drew at his pipe till the dottle glowed red
as his eyes ; and his long nose and jaws worked as
if he was biting on a sweet memory. He was
quite certainly a wicked old heathen, and horri-
bly dirty; but his very decay was charged with
the strength of a man who had lived his life, every
inch. I said something about his present work
being rough on him at his age.
“Now, you jes’ look here,” he said, beating one
long, crooked finger on my knee. “ I’ll jes’ con-
vix yer. If I could booze day an’ night I’d be
dead in a month. No fun in that, eh ? So I gets
my limit an’ wades in, an’ finishes off, an’ stands
out ter it agin. That kips me ’ealthy. That an’
tent-sleepin’. They other chaps tuk ter house-
sleepin’ an’ died. An’ wives ; p’r’aps that ’elped
it. I tuk my fun wi’ men allers. Wi’ men.” He
sat scratching his scraggy throat with his long,
dirtj nails, and his nose worked harder. It was
a whole savage, glorious life of the Middle Ages
that he was looking into. I had no part in it. I
stood up, and shook hands.
.“I’m going up the Old Man Range,” I told
him. “ And if 1 get the billet I’m looking for,
perhaps 111 be back in the township next week to
hunt you up.”
“Don’t come ’fore Thursday, then,” he said.
“I ’spect ter be fit agin by Thursday.”
“Do you mean?”
“ I tolt yer I got my four-ten, didn’t I ? What
d’yer take me for ? No need fur thanks. I’d ’a’
had butter if I knowed yer was cornin’. Good-
day. ’
* * * 9
It was daybreak next Friday morning when I
rode through the empty streets of the township
with word from my new boss about some fat
cattle. Hagan’s pub was still shut. But the
back-yard lay up to the street fence, and over the
palings I saw the Packman sitting beside all the
dead marines that Hagan had used between last
night and ten years back.
The Packman was going through them syste-
matically, meeting each bottle-mouth with his
own, and tilting his head back. I ranged up
alongside.
“Rather a mixed drink that, isn’t it?” I asked.
The Packman lowered a bottle, spat out a fly,
and looked at me. His eyes were dulled.
“ If I’d had that extry five bob Hagan’s wife’d
be wearin’ a noo hat ter-morrer,” he said. “There
was suthin’ wrong wi’ the whisky this time, an’ I
never got no fight out o’ it to remember.” He
cleared the mouth of a Hollands bottle with his
cuff, and shook his head. “There ain’t no good
’nless yer hev the rememb’rin’ ter chew on. You
lay up yer fights agin yer on’y got the remem-
b’rin'.” He came to his feet unsteadily, and his
face looked dirtier and more withered in the gay
sunlight. “ Stoppin’ in fur breakfas’ ?” he asked.
I wasn t. But I waited till the bar opened.
Then I took the Packman in, gave him a drink,
and set his feet towards his claim. Hagan told
me that the Packman was breaking up.
“ Good day. he said as I left him on the bridge.
“ I s’pose 1 11 hev ter make it four after this, or go
ter Mosely. There’s suthin’ wrong wi’ Hagan’s
stuff. I never got no fun out o’ it. There warn’t
a chap there’d tight me.”
“ Hadn't you better ring it off altogether ?” I
sugge-ted.
The Packman looked at me, and wiped his nose
with the back of his hand.
“ You young fellers,” he said, “ you don’t know
what life is. You’re tim’rus. You won’t hev no
fights ter chaw on when yer gits old. Good day.”
G. B. LANCASIER.
A WORD TO WOMEN
ABOUT
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PIUS,
They Cure Backache, Weak Back, Rheumatism,
Diabetes, Congestion of the Kidneys, Inflamma-
tion of the Bladder, Gravel, Bright’s Disease,
Dropsy, and all Urinary Disorders.
u
7^
0
u Every
Picture tells
a Story ”
Are You Nervous and Irritable?
Are You Run-Down or Rheumatic?
Kidney Trouble Affects the Whole System.
Women who suffer from pain or dull ache in the back,
loins, or sides, from dizzy spells, rheumatic twinges, urinary
troubles, gravel, sciatica, flatulence, headaches, who can't stoop,
can’t eat, can’t sleep, are recommended to try Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills; for Doan’s Pills help the kidneys to purify the
blood and drive out the poisons that cause fatal kidney com-
plaints, such as dropsy, Bright’s disease, and diabetes.
Doan’s Pills have been in use for the past 75 years ; they
help the kidneys in their great blood-filtering work, and give
tone to the whole kidney organism. Some of our neighbors —
Sydney women —tell here how lasting their cures have proved.
Sydney People Cured.
FROM BALMAIN.
Mrs. Wright, 6 Red Lion-street, Balmain, says Over four years ago I
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for cold in the Kidneys. I was subject to
that trouble at the time ; every cold would fly to my kidneys. In fact, when
troubled, the pain in the back would be frightful. It seemed to affect my whole
system. A short course of these pills cured me. I have had no cold in the
kidneys since, as the pills seemed to fortify these organs against changes in the
weather, and such conditions which bring out that troublesome ailment. I made
a statement to this effect four years ago. I am pleased to confirm it. Ive re-
commended these pills to many who suffer with the kidneys.”
FROM HUNTER ST.
Mrs. M. Mullins, 49 Hunter-street, this city, says : —“For about three years
I suffered with kidney derangement. The worst symptom was a constant back-
ache, which became more painful whenever I stooped much. I tried “any
remedies for this complaint, and the results were anything but beneficial, but
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills permanently cured me. When I say cured, i.
mean that it is over twelve months since I used these pills, and I ve had no
return of the old pain. I have advised many people to use Doan s Backacne
Kidney Pills, and all have obtained very good results from their use.
Four years later, Mrs. Mullins informs us that she is still well. 1 have
never had a sign of the complaint since,” she says. “ They are splendid puls,
and have made a great difference in my health.” The permanent cure in my
case speaks for itself.”
Be sure you get the Genuine
DOAN’S like your neighbor had.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receip o
price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.


An Adelaide lady sends her photograph, and writes:
8
“I used to have terrible
feelings come over me. The
doctors could do me no good.
I could not sleep, my appe-
tite left me, and I was a
most miserable woman in-
deed. Having read of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla I thought I
would try it. To my great
surprise, after taking only-
two bottles I found myself
very much better in every-
way. After taking six bot-
tles all my disagreeable feel-
fags left me, and I was completely cured.”
If your appetite is poor, your digestion imperfect, and
you feel nervous and weak, you ought to take
AYER’S s arsaparilla
It expels all impurities from the blood and gives strength
and vigor to the nerves. A thorough course of treatment
with it makes rich and red blood, brings the old color back
to the lips, fills out the cheeks, and gives the glow of per-
fect health.
A good appetite—a good digestion—a healthy liver—
an active brain and strong nerves; these are better than
great riches, and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will help you to
obtain them.
Prepared by 08. J. O. AT2SB ft GO., Lowell, Mass., XT. 8. A.
Thera are many imitation “Sarsapariflas.” Be sure you get AYER’S.
Ayer’s Pills, sugar-coated, for constipation. In glass bottles.
HENRy Skinner,
Olarendon-st,, South Melbourne
ko. lout.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
■•lected PLANT OB’ TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
tor the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and Banquets and
Private Balls Dinner Parties
Marquees, tents and dancing floors
erf Various Sixes Supplied.
THE LONDM TREATMENT
W&B TUB
EVERYONE interested in the work of
Reclaiming Victims of DRINK or
DRUG HABIT should be familiar with the
Treatment used at the London Institute.
Full particulars sent Post Free on appli-
cation. Address —
H. IV, BUTTREY,
London Institute, Box 121, Mastorton,
New Zealand*
A SOBER MAN
IS HIS OWN MASTER,
WHY BE A SLAVE TO DRINK*
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure for Alco-
holism never foils. A few doses produce
a wonderful change. The craving for all
intoxicants is destroyed, the serves be-
come steady, the appetite for food ns tarns,
refreshing sleep ensues.
IT MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY
snd Cures are effected Quickly, Easily, Safely
and Permanently. DRUNKENNESS is a Dls-
ease, not a Habit, and oan be cured.
MOTHERS, SAVE YOUR SONS,
Release them from bondage whether they will
or not. My Cure takes away all desire for
liquor without the patient’s knowledge.
My Book “Reclaimed,” No. 5, Posted FRBI.
Address all Communications to the
Qs. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Health, Strength and Vlgror Restored In
F »»r Weeks by the use of
Ilie only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY
«♦ _ am Ph' e ts_F ree . Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
**•> Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 COonnell?!?*
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth. ’’
Medicine Sent Free
the case may be. Thousands’ rwoa 1 °A Inatt ll' how severe
sent by maii in plain packages ° WheifaiTßPn Re P edy
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLmos 8
Write To-day.
"“*"“"23'«£i£'3£S™“"®»
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyNE
Caution* —Genuine Chlorodyne. i
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c. "bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
MB ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28,1895, says :
** R I were, asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, *to the exclusion of all
others, I. should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
Without it, and its general applicability to (the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THU
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Past Fra*, Is.
The lift, Adventure*
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
Smd Stamp for loustrattd Lists of Books and NottUiot
Madame Panza,
Box 913, Q.P.0., SYDNEY.
WEAK MADE STRONG I
Tty Our ELECTRIC BELT, with
SUSPENSORY Attachment.
=s3=*
Prioe TWO GUINEAS.
IT Animates the sluggish
circulation, Stimulates
the Brain , to Activity,
end fills the body with
Lot, Ambition, and En-
Dusance. It furnishes the
Morins Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
every morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energy and Vigor. Cata-
logue Post Free.
Buscrmc appliance co.,
H. ea mtmaboth Street, ’'
AIT INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
r>eedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Rill directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons, who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY.
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
n* mm Mot
kSOUND DISC)
■ Completely overcome D*af..„
■and Head Noises, no matter o*
■how long standing. Are the same
f to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Bnmphlet Free.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
F°Tisw£ ® iso^ er8 > « Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
, „Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chilis, Flush-
*? g 8 ° f at ’ Lo ® B of „ Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
£ r T lf “? TT “*4 Trembiin- Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
G tJIN fc'A V ji 6 BOx"” ° De BOX ° f th6Se PillS ’ aDd wiU acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
BEECH AM S PILLS, taken as directed, w quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of tne system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organa; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosbeud of Health the Whole Phtscoal Energy of the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, ip all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’ s Pills have the Largut Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Id ljd, and 2s 9d each.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS (the best and most characteristic Australian books) are sold by booksellers throughout
or will be forwarded by post (with postage added) from The Bulletin- Office, 214 George-street,
Sydney., in return for P. 0.0., postal note, or stamps of Australia or Maoriland. Editions de luxe of ON THE
HOP (a splendid collection. of pictures), and PHI). MAY IN AUSTRALIA (“his best work,” says The Athenaeum),
21s. each ; boxed and posted, 235. (A cheaper abridged edition of the latter only, 2s. 6d. ; posted 35.) FAIR GIRLS
AND GRAY HORSES (cloth, with portrait) and HEARTB OF GOLD (cloth, illus.), verses by Will Ogilvie ; 4s. Cd. each ;
posted ss. AT DAWN AND DUSK (cloth, with portrait), verses by V. J. Daley, 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. A SOUTHERN
GARLAND (cloth, with portraits), verses by R. Quinn, J. Hebblethwaite, L. Mack, H. Church, B. O’Dowd, 4s. 6d.;
posted ss. THE BULt ETIN RECITER (cloth, illus.), the best Australian recitation-book, 4s. 6d. ; posted ss.
MAORILAND (cloth, with portrait), verses by A. H. Adams; 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. HITS,
SKITS, AND JINGLES, vyrses by W. T. Goodge, cloth 3s. 6d. (posted 3s. 9d.), paper 2s. 6d. (posted 2s. 9d.).
THE RED PAGAN, by A. G. Stephens, cloth 6s. (posted 6s. 3d.), paper 3s. 6d. (posted 3s. 9d.). .
ON OUR SELECTION and OUR NEW SELECTION, by “ Steele Rudd ” (best books of Australian humour, 25,000 sold),
cloth, illus., 6s. each ; posted; 6s. 6d.- — THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK (best Australian stories), cloth 4s. 6d. ; posted
ss. SUCH IS LIFE, a real Australian yarn, by “Tom Collins,” cloth 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. CASTRO’S LAST SACRA-
MENT and Other Stories by A. Dorrington, cloth 2s. 6d.; posted 3s. BUSHMAN AND BUCCANEER (H. Morant’s
life and verses), Is.; posted Is. 3d. A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH, by J. Edmond, 6d. ; posted Bd. .
THE LAST OF SIX, stories by E. Favenc, 6d.; posted Bd. THE BULLETIN POST-CARDS (three new series in
colours). Series lA, PHIL MAY. Series lIA, “ HOP.” Series IV, BACKBLOCKS. Each series makes a packet of
Twelve assorted cards. Price, Is. per packet; posted Is. Id. The Bulletin Newspaper Company Ltd., 214 George
Street, Sydney, Australia.
There’* SECURITY in
Barter's
ITTLE
PILLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
tw, TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Snell Pill.
, L.E.0.5., L.F.P.S.O.
&c.
151 Elizabeth
frk'Ai:-
*■ -
The old-established, Reliable Phy*
•ioian aad Surgeon may be consulted on
ATI Diseases of |Tg^g?g?
and Women
£& e A nd J hcp^®^?e Im .P° r tant-Avoid Unskilful Pretenders-Both Sexes Consult
Confidently-No Ilxperimento. If you are afflicted and'Wish to Recover your Lost
Health, Strength and Vitality SEND AT ONCE FOR
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN, & THEIR HOME CURE.”
May be had from all Bookseller, Price 7s. 6d., or if
you apply to me now a copy will be POSTED FREE for
3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Bw»., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and
193 Illustrations, with Four-Colored Plate,
The most irttgresting, up-to-date and reliable medical
FREE
rfvK'verrf a Trfdea P o y f 34 illustrations and colored plate,
giving a very tair idea of y what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
conffttentta l . CONSULT THE AUTHOR.


Garden Hose.
SAMPLES
AND
PRICES
FREE.
Reliable, because it is well
made, and made to last.
Every foot of Hose we sell
increases our reputation as
makers & sellers of the best.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensers, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
270 George St., Sydney.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
*5
AN EXTRAORDINARY FREE OFFER.
In order to introduce our Catalogue into every tnme, we
have decided to absolutely give away 1,000 of our famous
Gold-fillt-d and Silver Watches (Ladies' and Gentlemen’s).
Our business is Mail Orders. We want your orders and
desire you to send for our Catalogues and our libera) offer,
which we will post to you.
Send postal-note for 4s, Gd, for one ot our Lady's or
Gent’s. Trial Order Parcels, containing il articles of Jewellery,
Brooches, Links, &c., and we send you with the parcel cur
above liberal offer.
Send at once, as this offer will be withdrawn when we have
distributed sufficient Watches to advertise our goods.
Address—
THE GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL GO., “S” Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
‘PLUM’
TMB
‘PLUM’
/TBNTLEMEN, —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
vl like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in U3e for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE "PLUM” RAZOR BTROP, specially made for this Rasor, 70 M.
"RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, *d oak*.
Pans
Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a.
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a
Registered and Sent Post Free to Ant Part of tot World.
UW Please add fid. exchang* on Country and la. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole agents: CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY
IHCERSOLL ROCK DRILLS.
Sergeant “Auxiliary Valve” Drill
“New Ingersoll” Drill
“Arc Valve” Tappet Drill
M Little Jap” Drill “Eclipse” Drill
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
NOTICE
To sufferersfrom Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatic*,
Lumbago. all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Thm Old Rale sublet English Homed*.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poxngdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizbs, 9d. A Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestkb A Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
STKTX>IW3E3'Sr-
:
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
OR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
restores eyflashes-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
SllVd d3A3N
'sananoax hah nv
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
“ HOW "TO PRESERVE THE EYES ”
CURED
A NOVEL PRESENT.
r receipt of ]
V forward to arty
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
lor M.O. for 5/- we will
address in Australia one
Set. GOLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with either
Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed the same
quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct.
G.P. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illug
trated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully addressed
to R. SIMS, Cold Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade,
Melbourne, Vic.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Toot
Money in full refunded withoat question
If not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grads
cvoles. warranted six years.
£2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered From
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
Second-Hand Cyc/oa
£1 to £2.10
all makes,
® B .
Great factory clearai
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agent*
wan fed in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c.,halfprices,
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. «*»•
LONDON AND CHIC ABA.
COCKLE’S
PILLS.
of London.
nily.
‘•I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in ih: kingdom."—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDLINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family
Now that Hot Weather
has set in, BEWARE of
Drinking . . .
UNFILTERED
WATER.
THE ....
Most Reliable Filter
IS THE WELL-KNOWN
ABBOTT
Manufactured In Australia and of Many Designs*
Has withstood SEVEREST BACTERIOLOGICAL TESTS.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd
If you cannot get it at your Store, write to
BOND STREET, SYDNEY;
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
