

BULLOCH LADE’S BULK WHISKY.
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
107 Kent
Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors 1 ' Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _
ill i
*Lk. .f- A
Grand Prix, Paris,
aOBA.RT.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
r
EVERY BELT Gl
. Ludowici & Sou, Ltd.
iaranteed.
117 York St., Sj
Kirchner & €o.*s
Planing and Moulding Machines, General Wood-workers, Deal and Flitch Frames,
Log Frames, Band Mills, Circular Saw Mills, Vertical Boring Machines, &c., &c.
For Illustrated Lists and
full particulars apply to • -
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 85 Pitt st., SYDNEY.
SCOTLAND
WHISKY
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
THE ROYAL
E DISWAN LAMP.
l\\v.
'Vv
m
Economy ik Current.
Equality of Lkjht.
THE
EDM l SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depdfc:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
(fyed ‘ (imu)
w i wa
Wallace Continental Cycle Tyres.
AT ALL MOTOR AND CYCLE DEPOTS. N.S.W. BRANCH : 7 WYNYARD STREET, SYDNEY.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
1/3
m
1/9
DAILY
TREAT!
BREWERS, WINE A SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
and CORDIALS,
No Other in
the World .
ENGINES
EQUALS
IRRIGATING PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
Worry &r Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
Ne Carbonisation
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St,
MELBOURNE.
Top Quality
bottom Prices
In Every Line.
PRICE LIST PER BOTTLE:
WHISKIES.
Highland Park .. .. 4/-
Usher s Special .. .. 4/2
Buchanan’s Special .. 4/2
BRANDIES.
CHAMPAGNES.
Louis Roederer.. f>,24 10/
Dry Monppole .. 5/2j 10/-
PouaHvery .. .. 5/‘i| 10-
Piper Kvidsieck... £/2| 10/-
PerrierJouei .. 5/- 9/9
Kn& .. .. 2/6 4/9 9/6
Vict’r Cliquot 2/6 4/6 8/6
LIQUEURS.
Absinthe (Pernod’s).. 7/-
Benedictine 6/-
Cherry Brandy .. .. 6/-
IMPORTED LAGERS.
Munich dark .. .. s«i. 1/1
Elberfeld : 9d. 1/1
Franz Josef .. .. 9d. 1/1
RIOHAROSON’S,
158 RSJSSELL ST.,
Next BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HELJDON SPA — “Stands pre-eminent as a Table Water.”
The Bulletin
Vol 26.—N0. 1312.]
[Thursday, April 6, 1905.
Registered at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as, a Hewapapefc


SHOULD BE IN EVERY BOOKFELLOW'S POSSESSION.
WEBSTER’S UNIVERSAL DICTIONARY.
The Latest Complete, Authentic Webster’s Dictionary. With an Exhaustive Appendix.
THE 1304 EDITION *- RE-SET FROM NEW TYPE * WITH SEVERAL THOUSAND
TH US * TWO THOUSAND ODD PAGES * WITH CONVENIENT THUMB INDEX *
FULL LEATHER BINDING, MARBLED EDGES.
Price—3o/-
FREIGHT
EXTRA
V The Dictionary, packed strongly, weighs 1:31 bs. Intending purchasers
will thus be able to gauge the freight.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 Castteredgh Street, Sydney.
Australian Art and Humour—
ON THE HOP!
Just Published, A superb library volume, hand-
somely printed and bound ; containing upwards ot
Three Hundred of “ Hop's” best drawings, bu
“Bulletin ” size. Price, 21s.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great. .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure of
Bronchitis /
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
rntmm
~ The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe. /
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung;
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE"
says
« of great service in
affections of tha
• voice and throat.
HUDSON’S EUiVSENTHOL JUJUBES
M V. a iuc nTHER PDISONGUS DRUC. Sold by a» Cheirasts in i
THE RED PAGE.
AUSTRALIAN AND BRITON
II HE aboriginal, the autochthon, the
black and previous Australian : the
more we hear of him the more we
love him. He needs only to be
lerstood. The prejudice against him is
British prejudice entirely. Britannia est
ula, says the Latin primer. Britons are
alar. They are cast in a mould, and
ike to be cast out of the mould : they
i in a groove, and object to run over.
;ly British criticism of the Australian was
ed on two grounds : in the first place, he
j black ; in the second place, he was not
Ltish. So the early Briton hove half a
ck at him, and the fragments are flying to
s day. “The natives of New Holland
i the lowest race on earth.” It is a
dish libel current for three genera-
ns, still taught solemnly in Australian
blic schools. You will find a similar
tement perpetuated in a standard text-
)k like Hughes’s Glass-book of Modern
jgraphy, edition of 1902.
Co be sure, intelligent Britons know
iter : they always knew better. Dozens
explorers before and after Thomas Mit-
>ll have written, like him, their admiration
the robust, manly, kindly Australian they
ind uncontaminated by—the British. In
y abstract scale of human virtue and
man happiness the Australian was and is
e equal of Hughes, of the Modern Geo-
iphy. He was primitive, it is true ; but
fortunately for many of us the primitive
3es are often the best, and have the best
de of it. Civilisation is not synonymous
th felicity. The condition and character
the early Australian, and of the Australian
-day in districts where the British have not
truded, are almost certainly better —more to
j desired and more to be imitated —-than
iose of thousands of dwellers in the slums of
ritish cities. The Australian is naturally
merous and affectionate, gallant and gay.
x the early days his life was a perpetual
icnic. The land gave him food bountifully :
• hunt and fish was a pleasure : climate and
lvironment alike were beneficent; and the
ustralian prospered. Like Paddy McGee,
i was always free and hearty. There was no
ippier race than his under the nourishing sun.
He was a cannibal when the coi'pse was
icculent; since, like everything else, can-
balisrn is a matter of taste. It is also a
atter of era : earlier or later, the fore-,
thers of Hughes, of the Gldss-buok of
Modern Geography, were cannibals too.
/hen a good man died, the primitive
ustralian, like the primitive Hughes, ate
im in order to assimilate his good
ualities. It is one way of reverencing
irtue. If the corpse belonged to an enemy,
x eat was a compliment as well as a sacred
lystery of transubstantiation ; if to a friend,
ne did him a kindness, as the friend in his
fe-time thoroughly recognised : for one
;new where he went to. “ Him no stink
iere,” as the primitive Australian, patting
lis stomach, told Tom Petrie. To be. sure,
he Australian was only an accidental or
xccasional cannibal : his offence was a very
Little one. He was not a monstrous cannibal
like the British industrial system, devouring
the flesh and blood of a hundred thousand
victims. But “wholesale” is “respectable,”
and “retail” is “degraded.”
The relation of ourselves, as later Britons,
to the remnant of primitive Australians,
comes for discussion again in West Aus-
tralia. One supposes later Britons agree
that it is . discreditable to murder
more primitive Australians than we can
help. British vice and disease have de-
stroyed probably more than half of the
aboriginal race ; and it seems a fail - thing to
give the rest a chance to live and die quietly.
There is no “problem” to solve. If the
blacks are to live on, they must be kept
entirely apart from the whites. Difficulty
arises only at points of contact between the
aboriginal race and other races. For Wes-
tralia, Dr. Roth’s admirable report assures
us that there is no “absolute cruelty” at
present. The aboriginal is not shot or
flogged to death. He is merely imprisoned
in 51b. neck-chains, under a formal pretence
of “ justice,” or driven to death by drink or
venereal disease. “ His funeral is to-inor-
row ” instead of to-day.
That, in a sense, is consoling ; but it is
scarcely satisfactory ; so the Westralian
Parliament (one hopes) is going to put things
aboriginal on a diftei'ent basis. VY estralia
finds that it has been pa,ying large sums for
“ aboriginal relief ” never given ; large sums
for “ aboriginal protection ” never afforded.
The police have been doing quite a thriving
little business by allowing aboriginal
prisoners to catch a lizard and charging the
lizards to “good old Mother Government ”
at 2s. per diem for “ food allowance.” Cer-
tainly the prisoners’ offence is rank, and
smells of beef to Heaven. A white squatter
“takes up” an aboriginal district, kills the
kangaroos, and drives the blacks away.
They return and kill the squatter’s cattle ;
the police “round them up” ; the males go
to gaol and the females to prostitution. Then
the process begins again.
MARRIAGE AGESGIES
IN his new fourth volume of Studies in the Psy-
chology of Sex (Philadelphia, F. A. Davis
Co.; 10s. (x/.), Havelock Ellis collects a
number of interesting data regarding the
value of the four senses as marriage agencies.
Seeing, hearing, smelling, and touching play a
prominent part in sexual selection : taste is
of no importance. All over the' world in
the forgotten books of past time, all over
the world in the books and journals of the
present, writers have recorded a myriad observa-
tions regarding the ways of I’Amour that makes
the world go round-O. It has been Ellis’s laborious
and useful task to survey this field of observations
in regard to the part played by the senses, to
correlate the facts and co-ordinate the principles,
in order to deduce what can be known of the
ruling instincts and their overruling laws. It is a
valuable work well accomplished.
What is Love? ask a thousand poets. Ellis
answers in his cold, scientific way that lo ve springs
up as a response to a number of stimuli to physi-
cal tumescence, the object that most adequately
arouses tumescence being that which evokes love.
do not enter into the matter funda-
mentally, though in a secondary sense you _ may
call beauty a name for the complexus of stimuli
that most adequately arouses love. —The sense of
touch, seated in the skin, originates in one of
man’s oldest evolutionary attributes. Scientifi-
cally considered, the skin is a poem and a picture.
I mere pathologist like Woods Hutchinson exults
er it.
Lhe skin is a tissue which is silk to the touch, the
st exquisitely beautiful surface in the universe to
i eye, and yet a wall of adamant against hostile attack,
pervious alike, by virtue of its wonderful responsive
ality, to moisture and drought, cold and heat, elec-
cal changes, hostile bacteria, the most virulent of
isons and the deadliest of gases, it is one of the real
anders of the World. More beautiful than velvet, softer
d more pliable than silk, more impervious than rubber,
d more durable under exposure than steel, well-i.’gh as
iistent to electric currents as glass, it is _ one of the
ughest and most dangerproof substances in the three
igdoms of nature.
But the skin is more than this :
It is the creator of the entire body; its embryonic
Eoldings form the alimentary canal, the brain, the
inal cord, while every sense is but a specialization of
i general organic activity. It. is furthermore a kind of
skin-heart,” promoting the circulation by its own
iergy ; it is the great heat-regulating organ of the
>dy ; it is an excretory organ only second to the kidneys,
hich descend from it.
And finally, it still remains the seat of touch,
o we see how profoundly the local larrikin has
jasoned when he selects as a summary pf his
onah the simple symbol of “ a bit of skin.”
“ A man cannot get out of his skin,” says the
roverb truly. Our everyday lives depend upon
utaneous stimulation. The hand-shake has a
hysiological basis; Lauder Brunton regards
lany common manoeuvres, like scratching the
ead and pulling the moustache, as methods of
dating the blood-vessels of'the brain by stimulat-
ig the facial nerve,; and the virtue of the Kiss
self is based upon the sensitivity of the skin.
What is a kiss ? Taylor calls it “ the salute by
rsting.” D’Enjoy defines it as “a bite and a
uetion” ; but Ellis doubts this. v“ There seems
ttle evidence that the kiss contains any gustatory
lement in the strict sense.” Many nations never
mew the kiss. Yet its scientific origin may be
ound low down in the animal scale. “ The caress-
ng of anterinae practised by snails and various
insects....is of the nature of a kiss.” But here
cience is surely sacrilegious.
The Kiss was scarcely employed in Aryan and
Semitic antiquity. Homer hardly knew it.; the
Jreek poets seldom mention it. To-day all
Europe knows it but Lapland—unhappy Lapland !
Net even in Europe it seems a comparatively
modern discovery. In all the Celtic tongues
there is no word for “kiss.” The Japanese do
not kiss. “On meeting after a long absence,”
Hearn remarks, “ they smile, perhaps cry a little,
they may even stroke each other ; but that is all.”
The Romans recognized at least three kinds
of kiss : the osculum , for friendship, given on
the face; the basium, for affection, given on the
lips; the suavium, given between the lips,
and reserved for lovers. The Chinese kiss is com-
plicated but unsatisfactory. “It maybe said to
be made up of three phases : (1) the nose is
applied to the cheek of the beloved person ; (2)
there is a long nasal inspiration accompanied by
lowering of the eyelids; (3) there is a slight
smacking of the lips without the application of
the mouth to the embraced cheek.” This kiss
“has been carefully studied by d’Enjoy,” who
assures us that is all there is to it. Among some
of the hill-tribes of south-east India the olfactory
kiss is found, the nose being applied to the cheek
during salutation with a strong inhalation;
instead of saying “ Kiss me,” they say “ Smell
me.” In Borneo, also, Breitenstein tells us,
kissing is a kind of smelling; “but he never
himself saw a man kiss a woman ; it is always
done in private.”
er®
Then Tickling. Alrutz, of Upsala, regards
I tickling as a milder degree of itching. (Troves
points out the psychic factor as evidenced by the
impossibility of self-tickling—unless with some
foreign body, like a feather. Spinoza said that
love was a kind of tickling associated with the
idea of an external cause —which reminds Ellis of
Cliamforfs definition of love as the exchange of
two fantasies and the contact of two epidermises.
Some animals are ticklish. The great Harvey
records that, by stroking the beak of a favourite
parrot (which lie had possessed for years and sup-
posed to be a male), he not only gave the bird
gratification, —which was the sole intention of the
illustrious physiologist,—but also caused .it to
reveal its sex by laying an egg.
The sensitivity of the skin was recognised by
the Early Christians. They avoided baths as too
stimulating.
In the middle ages, when the extreme excesses of the
earlv ascetics had died out, and monasticism became
regulated, monks generally took two baths a year when
in health ; in illness they could be taken as often t s
necessary. The rules of Cluny only allowed three towels
to the community : one for the monks, one for the .pro-
fessed, and one for the lay brothers. At the end of the
seventeenth century, Madame de Mazarin, having retired
to a convent of Visitandjnes, one day desired to wash her
feet, but the whole establishment _w r as set in an uproar at:
such an idea, and she received a direct refusal.
Mohammed did not like women to be washed
too much. He said, “ Whenever woman enters a
bath the devil is with her.” Public baths have
always tended to have a bad name—whence
liagnios.” And to-day “we bathe with exceed-
' moderation,” says Ellis. “Thus among the
iing women admitted to the Chicago Normal
hool to be trained as teachers, a bath once a
tnight is : found not to be unusual. ” A Sydney
inter complained the other day of trouble with
. model, who did not appear to bathe even once
fortnight. He suggested a swim; the lady
swered kindly that she loved swimming, but
5 did n’t like getting wet.
Smell. Smell, as a marriage agency, is less im-
rtant. Some people can smell better than
lers. An experienced perfumer, says Piesse,
11 have two hundred odours in his laboratory,
d can distinguish them all. In New Ireland,
our N. way, the natives have a very keen sense
smell, and “carbolic acid drove them wild.”
Maoriland, down our S. way, the natives have
had a very keen sense of smell, and W. Colenso
;otes a reference to the four chief Maori per-
mes in a Maori love-song or motlier-love-song :
r little neck-satchel of sweet-scented moss,
f little neck-satchel of fragrant fern,
r little neck-satchel of odoriferous gum,
; sweet-smelling neck-locket of sharp-pointed taramea.
Odours are powerful stimulants to the whole
irvous system: the odour of vanilla is especially
imulating. (If a man offers you vanilla lee-
eam, be prudent : say you prefer strawberry.)
he odour of negro varies not only individually,
it according to the tribe.
Castellani states that the negress of the Congo has
erely a slight “godt de noisette’' which is agreeable
ther than otherwise. Monbuttu women, according to
irke, have a strong Gorgonzola perfume, and Emin told
irke that he could distinguish the members of the differ-
it tribes by their characteristic 0d0ur.... A South Sea
lander, we are told by Charles de Varigny, on coming
i Sydney and seeing the ladies walking about the streets
jparently doing nothing, expressed much astonishment,
Iding, with a gesture of contempt, “ And they have no
uell 1 ” (Ellis regards this as to some extent libellous.)
The most odorous personage of antiquity was
ossibly
Alexander the Great, who, according to Plutarch,
dialed so sweet an odour that “his tunics were soaked
ith aromatic perfume... The agreeable odour of AV alt
Whitman has been remarked by Kennedy and others,
he perfume exhaled by many holy men and women—
the odour of sanctity ” —was doubtless due to abnormal
ervous conditions. Sometimes it was confused with
dor mortis , which frequently precedes death. A corres-
ondent of Tlie British Medical Journal mentions that
e has in Cornwall often seen ravens flying over houses in
rhich persons were dying, evidently attracted by a
haraeteristic odour.
Chus we have a scientific explanation of the
innctuality of the banshee, and—since personal
idours are distinguishable—of the famous ability
>f every banshee to fly above its own particular
Connemara castle.
Brunes (according to Gould and Pyle) are said
tometimes to exhale a prussic acid odour, and
alondes more frequently musk. —It was formerly
liscussed whether strong personal odour consti-
tuted adequate ground for divorce. “ Mulier turn
jene olet übi nihil olet ” is an ancient dictum.
‘The line, ‘the lilies and languors of virtoe for
;he roses and raptures of vice ’ seems all wrong to
me,” writes a lady to Ellis. “ The lily seems to
me a very sensual flower, while the rose and its
scent seem very good and countrified and virtuous.
The tendency of the odour of certain flowers to affect
the voice is recognised bv professional singers. Madame
Renee Richard, of the Paris opera, has frequently found
that when her pupils have arrived with a bunch of violets
fastened to the bodice, or even with a violet and iris
sachet beneath the corset, the voice has been marked by
weakness, and, on using the laryngoscope, she has tnuna
the vocal cords congested. Madame Calve confirmed the
opinion, and stated that she was especially sensitive to
tuber-rose and mimosa, and that on one occasion a
bouquet of white lilac has caused her, for a tune, com-
plete loss of voice. The flowers mentioned are equally
dangerous to a number of other singers ; the most m-
iurious flower of all is found to be the violet. The rose is
seldom mentioned, and artificial perfumes are compara-
tively harmless, though some singers consider it desirable
to be cautious in using them.
“ Mimosa ! ” Evidently our own wattle-blossom is
meaht by benevolent Nature to be sung at, not
with.
.jX JX
“Hearing” and “Seeing” as marriage agen-
cies : they are seductive, yet wait till another day.
MEMORANDA
The last literary assailant of the Tsar recounts
or invents the precautions for personal safety
taken during the Tsar’s visit to h ranee :
1. Twice a day he received absolution.
2. He wore a small piece of garlic in his clothes, as a
tahsman. orthodox Church used to lick his left
eye twice a day as a safeguard against Nihilist machina-
tions.
Leaving aside greater considerations;, see the
diabolic efficiency of literary weapons of pre-
cision. How. alliterative detail fixes the libel
in memory ! Lick , conjoined with /eft eye, is
irresistible: no other word would make the
impression. Sometimes one sees the Amer. cow-
catcher joke misquoted. Either Artemus or Josh
/Suggested that the cow-catcher should be placed,
at "the rear of a very slow train, lest the cow should
come along and “ bite a passenger.” “Eat a
passenger ”is not half as pungent: it is too vague.
The focus of the humour is m the precise image of
bite.
We study N.S.W. Agricultural Gazette just now
for two things : the colour-lithography, which is
the best thing the Govt. Printing Office does, and
sometimes as good as any printing-office does ;
and the articles by a chap named Robert Kaleski,
which are Jewels with J’s. Kaleski writes of the
common objects of the Rush cattle-dogs and
sheep-dogs, axes and how to buy and grind them,
and so on ; he is ’noth scientific and practical; and
he has a gift of humour—so he is far more interest-
ing than current fiction. When a man knows all
about anything, if it be only cross-cut saws, he is a
reader’s encliante'.
From Tasmania comes the suggestion of a Com-
monwealth University degree—with the same
examination held at the same time yearly. Ine
idea of a formal University of Australia, with the
local universities subordinate, seems feasi ole—and
quite unlikely to become a fact.
IN THE TASMANIAN BUSS
Ire raged the ocean in the far-off time,
L d made this Spreading shallow ; yonder rode
anchor under that green island’s lee,
e mariner who, from low Norland shore,
[led in the lonely South beyond the verge
other voyages and found a land
sart-shaped and dear, and left this happy coast
ch with dim memories of slow canal,
blossomed mead and ancient water-gate,
id yellow foaming sea.
But come away!
■rget the spuming waves : from forest deeps
thin blue smoke floats o’er the bushman’s camp,
id calm against' the azure droop the crests
lofty gums. 0 come away ! for here
■e homes won from the wilderness by hearts— ,-\ t
wise and brave—that still remembering, <
ke him of whom the Roman Virgil sang,
isterely sweet, have called both brook and field
r English threshold names. Now slacken rein
pon this flowering earth, and brood on woods
ftly alight with faded sunshine, streams
ere threads of amber, sapphire, and pure rose,
Meeting all the faint reluctant hues
lat wane to twilight; pause, and breathe the
scent,
iie troubling odour of a sad decay,
aat comes with eve and dews beneath the moon
nd thick-strewn stars.
Behind the homing cows
oiter in fragrant stillness boy and girl,
r ith wonder filled at some strange gentleness
hat late as yesterday has come between
heir comrading, and made their rarer dream
.t one with all the music of the sea,
.nd earth, and sky . . .
Now lift the fallen rail,
.nd leave the wistful forest, and the hills
[oar with the silver moon, for caverned glow
If mighty log, and tales of lion-hearts
Graving in solitude the ruined fall
)f giant gums, the toil of cankered years,
rnd that great sorrow when adown the track
Ike horsemen ride in light and shade behind
Iheir fellow whom nor coo-ee from the stead,
sior bark of dog, shall ever waken more.
Vhat though there are no legends from the past
)f sacred isle or barrow, fairy dell,
)r wave of border war—a wash of steel
Breaking on massy gate, or love and death
n country ballads sung by ingle-nook
Vheii winds sweep down the valleys ; yet the same
kre human hearts, and here in this deep bush
[’hey have their brave romance of fire and flood,
Vnd as of old still hides the laughing girl,
vVith merry eyes that shine with night and love
knd sweet relentings; and some bard will rise
Steeped in the glamour of it all, and sing
frlorse, axe, and gun, and bed beneath the green,
A.nd gentler theme of golden fleece, and plough
Spilling white dust and burning falling flower,
With shadowed rest at headland, and the peace
And love of forest homes.
O ! when that touch !
0 dim uncertainty that makes our faith
Heroic, and the haunting fear of Death,
Our Brother of old silences and rest,
Shadow our crown of pure immortal light,
And chill the tenderness of blossoming
Of earthly passion—here, unseen, we find
A place impregnable to cruel words
And wounds and scornings, where in twilight
lands,
In calm ineffable, the heart may heal,
And gain of beauty and of love and hope,
Though in the fulness of its joy there be
The sense of tears, and of the silent peace
Of sunshine falling in forgotten place
On quiet graves.
T.
J.H.
RECEIVED
Wasted Fires, by H. Nisbet (Lond., Greening;
3s. fid.). The story of a writer-illustrator (H.
Nisbet is a writer-illustrator) who was sent by an
English firm to write and illustrate Australia ; of
his experience in Australia; of how the Eng. firm
treated him; and of his final triumph. Ihe
author has energy and some power of observation,
but no conception of art in writing : he- produces
good material for a better head to use.
Ye Wayside Goose (Melb., H. and P. Stone).
An amateur journal in new dress. The crafts-
manship does Phil Stone credit; the literary con-
tents are Awful. The death of one of the confra-
ternity is paragraphed thus (with names altered
for the sake of relatives aghast)
Tub Wayside Bows
Down in Sorrow. .
A HESITATION, a dash across the oncoming- mine-
cart, a big red gash on the breast, and Jeremiah
Henry Smith was dead.
The Latest Hell (Lond., Watts, 3 s. Gd.) De-
scribed as “ a phantasy,” in the form of conversa-
tions with a gentlemanly Devil, who makes reflec-
tions upon life and morals—not very new or
interesting.
A.O.S.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY
And all Kinds of BOTCHERS’ PRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.,
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
The CHEAPEST HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO
FOOTBALLS.
All Balls fitted with Best Quality
'IMPORTED) Red Rubber Bladders.
BTJGBT OB ASSOCIATION.
fc'-Nl
l
V ?/
VS,
m.
m
ml
KPo-r^M
:
R
iSVW
m \{
mMmsM.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Koyal ” Match Footballs, 7/6.
NICHOLSON’S “ Royal ” Hand Sewn Match, 9/6
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Special Royal ” Footballs, 11/6.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s Extra Special Stpd “A.N. A.,” 14/6
GILBERT’S Best Match Footballs, 12/6.
BRYAN’S “ Grasshopper ” Match Footballs, 13/6.
“DIADEM” Buttonless Match, Association only, 13/o.'
SYKE’S “Rival,” Association Match only, 10/-.
SYKE’S “Albion,” Association Match only, 11/6.
SYKE’S “League Defiance,” Association Matchonly,lf>/-
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
Solid Leather, No. 1
RUGBY.
Match 11.
s. d.
each 2 3
„ 2 9
„ 3 6
„ 4 3
„ 5 0
ASSOCIATION. s. d.
Solid Leather, No. 1 each 2 6
it ,) ~ 2 .. .. .. •• ~3 3
„ „ „ 3 ,39
„ „ „ 4 ~4 6
„ „ Match 111 „ 5 0
Special Youths’Match Hall, Best Quality.. ~ 14 0
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra Special Value.
No. 1, Is. 9d. each.
No. 2,2 s. 3d. each.
No. 3,2 s. 9d. each.
No. 4,3 a. 3d. each.
FOOTBALL BLADDERS (Imported). Red Rubber —Rugby or Association.
No. 1
2
» 8
*
s. d.
each 1 0
„ 1 4
..17
„ 110
No. 5
~ 6, Association only
~ 5, Rugby only, Special Extra Stout
Rubber
s. d.
each 2 3
2/9, 3 3
each 3 3
We can supply Colonial Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.—Shin Guards.
s. d.
Stout Twill, with tapes .. .. . pair 1 0
Stout Twill, straps and buckles .. .. ~ 13
Basil, leather straps and buckles .. .. „ 16
Brown Basil, extra large continuous leather
straps „ 2 0
Odd Gape, straps and buckles .. ~ „ 2 9
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather
straps
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, con-
tinuous straps, with or without ankle
pads
Same as above, larger size
s. d.
pair 3 0
*»
4 0
5 0
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOT, blocked toe-cap, very light, a splendid
boot for Rugby, 10s 6d pair.
Extra Quality English-made BUCK SKIN BOOT (white), blocked toe and ankle
pads, guard over instep, very special quality, 14s 6d pair.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOTS, blocked toe-caps, with and without
ankle pads, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d pair.
BRASS IN FLA TORS —Is 3d, Is lOd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 6s 6d each.
UMPIRES’ WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS, 6d each. LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
Stout Web Belts, Double Straps and Pocket, Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
Solid Blocked Leather Ankle Guards, 2/6 set of 4
EAR CAPS —White Duck (open top), 3s each ; Buff Chamois
(netted crown), 3s 9d ea. ; Gold Cape (netted crown), 5s ea.
JERSEYS— Men’s Best Quality Navy, Royal Blue, Maroon or
Sky in single colors. Royal and Gold, Sky and Maroon,
Maroon and Gold, Black and Cardinal, Light and Dark
Blue, Black and White, Royal and White, Red and White,
Navy and White, Cardinal and Royal, Black and Royal,
Green and Red, Black and Gold, Green and Gold, in 2-inch
bars, 48/- dozen ; 4/3 each.
~.:v
Derkv
3/6
Han&icao
5/-
' STANbARb
7/3
Ascot
2/6
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. 12s 6d
A 1 ». 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
BLAZENCER’S racquets.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25 s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“ Doherty H .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s eov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
r
BOXING GLOVES.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, Cs 6d set
Boys’ Tan, Cs, 6s Cd set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Soz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set;
60z., 12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois,
Champion shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Soz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
Illustrated Sports, Fishing Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
L F
5“
AUCHTERLONIE’S CLUBS-
Drivers, Cleeks, Irons or
Mashies 6s 9d
Bulger Brassies .. .. 7s 6d
Straight or Bent Neck
Patent Putters.. .. 8s
“B.G.L” CLUBS-
“ Fairfield ” Drivers,
Brassies and Irons .. 4s Cd
First (Quality Drivers,
Brassies and Irons .. 6s 6d
SPALDING’S CLUBS—
“ Morristown ” Brassies .. 6s 6d
“ Crescent ” Drivers,
Brassies or Irons .. 6s 9d
GOLF BALLS—
Ayres’ Practice, XOs 6d doz.
“ Silvertown,” 15s 6d doz.
Haskell, Wizard, or Spring
vale Eagle, 30s doz.
We have the best selection of GOLF
MATERIAL in Australia .
Golf Sundries of every description stocked.
•-^xXWWU
L
PUNCHING BALLB.
Swinging 8011, complete, with best
quality Bed Rubber Bladder —
7s 6d, 11s fid, 15s, 18s, 20s, 21b,
255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete—lss fid, 16s fid,
18s fid, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fixing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rubber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels —
Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 8s fid each
SPECIAL REDUCTION
To advertise this Favorite
and up-to-date Rifle, the
Manufacturers have de-
cided to REDUCE the
Selling Price
FOR ONE
"THE MAINZ "
PiFie
MONTH
ONLY.
The Celebrated “ Maine ” Rifle,
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights
to 300yds., Bolt Action, 18in.
Blue 1 Steel Barrel, Walnut .
Stocjc. Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges. Weight, 2JIO.
PRICE 12/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE, 1/3 EXTRA.
Gun Cartridges.
per 100
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ;JST
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2,
o. 2, Is 3d; No. 3, Is 9d 100
is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges,
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
- £ .> 22 Long:
22 Long Rifle ..
22 Extra Long..
$lOO
Is Od
Is Od
Is 3d
Is 6d
2s Od
$lOOO
9s
10s
12s
13s
18s
SES2S
[SA/C
HOLLIS
& SONS’
“The Reliable,
PRICE
£6 12s 6d
DBBL Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding ts^'^^ranteed
chambered for 2|m. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
__, (iT uc RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12-
HOl-LIS & SONS T-^snnmnsf U s or “ Sienien’s ” steel barrels, both choke, side
gauge, top lever, genun ‘ extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with
lock action, automatic safety boH, ,’ r 2Jin ; cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR
AITsMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States .. • •
£l2 12s
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight f K
**
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L.. Gnn, 12 or 16 gaiige, top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. &E. fore-end, pistol «
grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. ..
I
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifle
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 81b. -J
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V s. d.
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb. .. 18 6
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 3stb 16 6
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MOST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market, Sydney.


A SUCCESSFUL SPECIALIST
In all Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases.
There comes a time when you need a doctor, and, when that time comes, remember that I am
at your service, no matter where you may reside in the Colonies.
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,Edin.,
M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P., E„ L.R.C.S., E., L.F.P.S.G., etc.
REGISTERED IN GREAT BRITAIN, VICTORIA, AND N.S.W.
to
My system of treatment is to build up, and the experience of nearly a quarter of a century
*- . . v proves me right.
Send for Dr. Martin’s Medical Work, Posted
FREE on receipt of Stamps to cover postage.
CONSULTATIONS PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
REMEDIES FORWARDED FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
Aertex
Cellular
Underwear,
Shirts,
Pyjamas, &c„
Anti
Ladies r
Underwear
of every description.
Samples, Pamphlets and Price
Lists, post free, from
■ ■ . ■
V-SKEKO.
tS'fiKJJOISi ——
«O^^Vi>*»W3
giS3£iPgSSS
ft'-®^'*st»*'»^<»-«.siii.:<».*v^tcir
«^>«o:<rs
'''^-BT»:u«;ißSfjraKff:«:«i#i#a
*“*■■ "4*~-CT-cw- ciL^F-£K3e.<g^,€>-^'€r*^_^»-**|
3< SMKffi
_je «a*3K^
DAVID BBAHAM & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS,
75 King-street, Sydney
n
fi
RUBBER
HEELS
WORN |
BY !
ROYALTY.
OL
Will do more to give you a feeling of youth and brightness than all the drugs in
the pharmacopoeia. The hard street is made as soft and pleasant to walk on as a grass
lawn. Saves ten times their cost in the boot bill.
Render worn down heels impossible, relieve spinal concussion thus saving the nerves
and reducing fatigue. Sold by every Up-to-date boot and shoe dealer and general storekeeper.
CAUTION—Sob the name “ WOOD-MILNE ” on every Pad.
Sole Agents for AUSTRALASIA, D. & W. MURRAY, Ltd.
Adelaide. KalgoorUe. Launceston. Townsville. Perth. Melbourne. Brisbane. Broken Hill.
Bolt Manufacturers of the Wood-Milne HeeIs— REYOLYING HEEL Co., Preston, ENGLAND.
SORE
EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK BYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES- v
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES. •
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chem’st for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
ENOS FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
/' -
The ejfect of Eno’s‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact. Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION,— Saa Capsule marked EMO’3 - FRUIT SALT.’ Without It you bare «
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prapared only by J. 0. ENO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENGh,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, tic., everywhere.
9
THE “MELBA” ACCORDEON
W/E do not recommend the “ HELBA ” because it is lower in price
■ ” than others, such may be true, but because the “ HELBA ”
excels all others in the most important quality an instrument can
possess—TONE.
This is the result of the superior quality of the alloy used in the
reeds, and the employment of experts in reed “ voicing',” an art which is
imperfectly understood by the ordinary maker of Accordeons.
The “ fIELBA ” ACCORDEON, No. 717, is fitted with three
sets of reeds, nine fold double bellows, leather lined corners fitted with
metal protectors.
To anyone mentioning The Bulletin we will send the above Post
Free for 205., including Carl Bruno’s Accordeon Tutor, containing
Popular Songs, Waltzes, &c.
*5, 276, 278 Col I ins-street, Melbourne.
the
‘PLUM’
THB
* PLUM’
GENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACiI RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s> 6d.
“ RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Paid
{Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21*
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Sola Agents
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of tiie World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st.,
Sydney.
D’ye Flay the Accordeon ?
When it’s properly played, and when it’s a good Accordeon
—one of these—it will yield good music.
We can open your eyes with our celebrated
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds, ratent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Posted to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality (as per illustration), with 3 sets of Reeds and
Organ Stop, JBI ss. Other Accordeons, 7/6 to 63/-
Send for Catalogue B.
For GRAMOPHONE see our advertisement on another page.
Importers of Pianos, Watches, & Jewellery,
210 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
•9
WEAK WEH, BRACE UP!
m\
f/A
ssr<>
X
\
S
m
m
IWW
W:
m
WM
ssss
m
h
A'j
Call, if you
can, and see
this BELT.
■ _v
We will
Advise You
without
Charge.
Free Book.
We publish a
Grand 96-page
Book that all
Sick and Weak
People should
read. We will
send it FREE
to any address.
GET SOME LIFE INTO YOU! “W
WhaT’3 the use of dragging your legs about like a wooden man ? Feel
like a man of spirit! Away with pains andi aches;; off with that wretched
feeling as if you were seventy years old: and; had one foot in the grave.
Come and let us put life into your nerves—let us give you a new supply of
youthful energy, bet us make you feel like throwing your Ghest out and
your head up, and saying to yourself, “ I’M A MAN bet us give you
back that old feeling of youthful fire, vim, and courage. We can do it so
that in two months you will wonder that you ever felt so slow and poky as
you do now. Act to-day. bife is sweet, so enjoy every minute. USE . .
DR. McLAUCHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
Every weak man wants to feel young again. To realise the joyous
sparkle-of nerve life as it infuses the body with its glowing vitality to feel
the magnetic enthusiasm of youthful energy ; to be happy,, light-hearted,
and full of joyous impulses ; to be free from spells of despondency ;; from
brain wandering, and that dull, stupid feeling; to have confidence,, self-
esteem, and the admiration of men and women. Such is the wish of
every broken-down man, and it may be gratified.
Sciatica and Indigestion.
67 Webb-street,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Dear Sirs, —Just a line or two to let you
know lam quite satisfied with the Belt; it
has done for me all that you said it would.
I have not had a sign of Sciatica—it seems
to have left me for good ; I am also gaining
weight, and I can digest my food now,
which I could not do before wearing it. If
you wish to refer anyone to me at any time
you could give my name and address and
I should be very pleased to inform them
what good your Belt has done me.
Yours sincerely,
C. HYDE.
Indigestion and Constipation.
Post Office, Woodg'rove,
MOONBAH, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —I wish to express my grateful
thanks for the benefits I have received from
wearing one of your Electric Belts. I have
been a great sufferer, not being able to sleep
at night, nor do a day’s work, but, after
wearing your Belt for about five months, I
now thank God that I can sleep well and
do a day’s work with any man; I feel
myself again.
Wishing you God-speed with your ex-
cellent Belts, I remain, Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
JOHN WHITEMAN.
Mr. N. MOORE, of Bayswater, W. A., Writes: " Dear Sirs,—
Having worn one of your Electric Uelts for about three months, I find it to be all
you claimed. lam much better, stronger, and full of fresh life. It is simply
marvellous. I can well recommend it to anyone wanting a good builder-up. The
pains I bad in my back have all gone, and 1 feel a new man in every way. I am
very glad to be able to say that I am in real good health through wearing your
wonderful Electric Belt according to your instructions.”
Wherever you are we think that we can give you the name of a man in
your town whom we have cured. Just send us your address, and let us
try. This is our twenty-fifth year in the business of pumping new vim
into worn-out humanity, and we’ve got cures in nearly every town.
Oup Consulting- Rooms are Open Every Week-Day from Si a.m.
to 8.30 p.m. Call for FREE ADVICE and FREE TEST.
Dr. McLaughlin Co
N.Z. Office : 54 WILLIS ST., WELLINGTON.
100 W. Market-stj
—SYDNEY.


Your Barber or
Your Druggist?
If your hair is too long, go to yow?
barber. Ho has the remedy —a parr
of shears. If your hair is too short, go
to your druggist. lie has the remedy
—a bottlo of Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Ayer's Hair Vigor
Is a Hair Food.
It feeds the hair. The hair grows
long and heavy because it gives to the
hair just what it needs.
If your hair is turning gray, it shows
there is lack of hair nourishment.
Give your hair this hair-food and it
will take on new life. Soon all the
deep, rich color of youth will return
to it.
We are sure you will be greatly
pleased with Ayer’s Hair Vigor as a
hair-dressing. It makes the hair soft
and smooth, and prevents splitting at
the ends.
Prepared by Dr. J.C. Aver Co.. Lowell. Mass., U. S. A.
Turveyors
by Royal Warrant
To His Majesty
The King.
“LENTEN SEASON/'
JUST LANDED “SPECIAL”
SHIPMENTS OF . . .
MOIR’S
(John Moir & Son, Ltd.)
HERRINGS.
“ NEW SEASON’S ” “ SPECIALLY SELECTED.”
Insist on having “MOIR’S” BRAND.
EACH TIN GUARANTEED.
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Preserved Bloaters
Herrings in Anchovy Sauce
Herrings in Shrimp Sauce
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
Herrings a la Sardines
Digby Chicks
Dried Sprats
Findon Haddocks
Anchovy Paste, 3oz.
B/oater Paste, 4oz.
MARTIN’S
PILLS
A Safe Medicine for Ladies.
The reason is they are purely a vegetable
composition, and expressly suited to the con-
stitution and requirements of women. This
explains the great success and golden opinions
which follow the ! r use. Thousands say they
save all trouble, effectually remove all impuri-
ties of the blood, beautify t'le complexion, no
headache, no pain, no flushing, no giddiness,
no anxiety. Tney make work a pleasure, and
existence a joy. Superior to any other known
remedy, Price 5/-. Sold everywhere. Sole
proprietor, MARTIN, Pharmaceutic d
Chemist, Sou Hampton, England.
PLEASURE
I« I ■ w K* 9 m 1"" " ■—»
Cyphers Incubators.
'T'HESE world-renowned INCUBATORS are worked on
1 a new principle. The Regulator is simply perfect,
and cannot get out of order. Being worked on the Hot
Air principle, they have no tanks to leak. They are self-
ventilated, and are fully guaranteed to bring out lively
and healthy chicks and ducklings. Send for circular.
J. & A. BOYES, AGENTS,
241=243 Elizabeth-street, flelbourne
THE GUINEA KING
i
i
m/
m
m
m
Hand
Camera
To carry 12
J-Plates
with Rapid
Rectilinear
Lens.
Finest In-
stantaneous
Shutter
focussing up
to 4ft. Post
free to any
part of Aus-
tralia, 22/6.
J. H. SQUIRE & CO
Kodak Depot, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
BONNINGTONS
eM
////
3
%
\
//
$
VA-
\
///->V
/> N '4
W/7
0'. 6
0 4
/V
//
c T &■
<? A
Cj c
CARRAGEEN
OR
FOR
VOICE,
THROAT. IUNGs:
coug^ cOLDs -
EFFECT CERTAIN
f LARGE AND
SMALL BOTTLES
Y6** d £'6
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall and Post Office,
and within a stone’s throw of all the Theatres.
Engage Your Rooms at. Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
. Thus they are only charged for the meals' consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2.30; DINNER, 5.30 till 7.30
Special Feature- RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.50
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
H O TEL ENTRAN CE = MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
Mem.: Business Men.
To obtain the benefit of Style and Comfort
at a minimum outlay, you should wear . .
“BIG BLOCK” CLOTHING.
These Suits are just the thing for business wear, and made specially to your measurements from Fox’s
Serge, Indigo Dye, and All Wool Fancy Tweeds.
The Price is—
40s. PER SUIT
To Measure,
Post Free,
and when you wear one of these Suits these features will he noticeable : The coat will hang well round the
shoulders, fit perfectly across back, feel comfortable over the arms, and set trim around the collar ; the vest
will fit, properly and button snugly, as a good-fitting vest should ; the trousers will set right and hang grace-
fully—they will be of proper length and size.
TROUSERS TO MEASURE in New Worsteds, Tweeds, and Indigo Serges at 12/6 post free.'
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS to measure, in fawn and brown beaver cloth, velvet collar, at 32/6, post free.
ASCOT OVERCOAT (full length row, neck to feet), in rainproof covert coating and rainproof tweeds, to
measure, 45/-, post free.
If you cannot call, send for patterns and self-measurement form and they will be sent you
post free on receipt of request.
TRY WHERE YOU WILL, YOU CAN’T BEAT THE BIQ BLOCK. CLOTHING.
Finney, Isles & Co., Limited, The Big Block, BRISBANE.
\
S2#/
K
f
'A
ye
sv.
Pi
Betrothed f
THEN COME HERE FOR THE RING.
/ have many Beautiful Engagement Rings,
Sparkling with Purity.
Prices are as low as perfect Gems can
be sold for.
HERE ARE A FEW ILLCST RATIONS.
Send for my Catalogue and Size Card for the finger.
Extra fine, 5 large Dia-
monds, Half Hoop King,
£l2 12s. to £2O.
18ct., large Diamond in
centre, Rubies or Sapphires,
70/-
Three Diamonds, Rubies
or Sapphires, 65/-
Half Hoop Diamond Ring,
5 white stones, £5.
AND AT IPSWICH AND TOOWOOMBA,
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Autumn.
Summer is lost;
Earth and the warmth of her fail in the Lost;
Feebly Apollo at daylight
Pierces the grey light. -
Summer and thou,
Gone with the leaves from the golden bough
Life groweth loveless and jaded ;■
Summer is faded.
Thou see'st Spring;
Knowest that Ceres, where snowflakes swing,
Fearful, embraces the daughter
Springtime has brought her.
Here she is sped :
Ceres is mourning for Proserpine dead ;
Auster, the cloud-muffled, bio wet li,
Flora’s love goeth.
Hear ;ne, oh hear !
Camest thou thus with the joy o’ the year ?
Camest like Proserpine thrilling,
Dew-flowers spilling ?
If through the hush
Thou earnest swiftly with odor and flush,
Youth would return with its yearning,
Hearts would be burning.
Even as Earth,
Ancient one, quickened to wonderful birth,
Fresh from my heart came the vernal
Love-songs eternal.
Never again;
Never the pleasure to lessen the pain ;
(Time of thy voice hath bereft me,
Now thou hast left me).
Lonely with thought,
Wearied with longing that bringeth me naught;
How the old memories thronging
Fill me with longing 1
Yea, in the skies,
Cloudless and bleak as the night o’er them lies,
Still from thine eyes cometh beaming
Love and its dreaming.
Under the West
Great constellations have sunk to rest,
Taurus and gleaming Orion ;
Now sets, the Lion :
Arcturus beams
Far in the North, whilst Areas dreams,
Dreams as the wood-nymph, a blossom,
Leans on his bosom :
Close at his side,
Stars in the tresses, of Berenice hide—
Thou where the heavens are deepest
Hidest and sleepest.
Wouldst thou to-night,
Raising thine eyes to the burning star light,
Think of the Isles that lie dreaming
Under its beaming ?
Cross-lit and still !
Think of young lovers as young hearts will;
Lend me a thought on thy sighing—
“ Love is undying.”
Then at thj side
(Dear God, the Heaven of Dreams is wide !)
I for a moment may find me,
Winter behind me.
Dreaming is vain.
Thou as I love thee wilt come not again.
Life groweth loveless and jaded ;
Summer is faded.
M.L.
JOHANNES C. ANDERSEN.
A Song Unsung.
Dear love, I’ve striven long to mould
Bright words to tender song,
That, flower-like, opening, would unfold
A love as sweet as strong —
That secret mine of fairy gold
Where we have plundered long.
A song... a mad delicious thing—
An ecstasy unbound
Where dreams of whitest, wildest wing
Were melted into sound ;
Nor viol, nor lute, with shuddering string,
Might match its perfect sound.
But, oh ! the rude words will not take
The music I would hear;
Their stumbling weakness cannot make
Love’s deeps of rapture clear,
Nor show its calm, like moonlit lake,
When no wind wakes a-near.
Words cannot show the shimmer-sheen
It sheds upon grey years;
Its arrowy lights that pierce the lean
Black breasts of savage fears ;
The kisses... or the seldom-seen
Beloved tears.
I would to sing that song were mine
Before the dark days come,
When rose-leaf lips shall fade and pine,
And singing lips grow dumb—
Drained the last draught of youth’s red wine
By hearts grown old and numb ;
That when o’er us the Shadow dips,
The gay lilt might beguile
To pallid cheeks and withered lips
The thin wraith of a smile,
And make two hearts in half-eclipse
Rejoice a little while.
N.S.W.
ZADIG.


FOR BABY’S SKIN
SCUT AND HID
Something for mothers to Think About
EVERY CHILD born into the world with an inherited
or early developed tendency to distressing, disfiguring
humours of the skin, scalp, and blood, becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not only because of its suf-
fering but because of the dreadful fear that the disfigura-
tion is to be lifelong and mar its future happiness and
prosperity. Hence it becomes the duty of mothers of
such afflicted children to acquaint themselves with the
best, the purest, and most effective treatment available,
viz., THE CUTICURA TREATMENT.
Warm baths with Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales
and soften the thickened cuticle, gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, to instantly allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, to be followed in the severer cases by mild doses of Cuticura llesol*
vent Pills (see below), to cool and cleanse the blood, are all that can be
desired for the alleviation of the suffering of skin-tortured infants and
children and the comfort of worn-out, worried mothers. A single set is
often sufficient to cure when the best physicians fail.
Millions of Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preservintr, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for
cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dtmdruft, and tiie stopping of falling hair, for
softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, Rollings,
and channgs, in the form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for ail the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
Cuticura Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated) are prepared to meet the wants of
delicate women, and sensitive children, and are pure, sweet, and tasteless. They are
beyond question the most successful blood purifiers and humour cures yet compounded.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. .Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28. Charterhouse Sq , London. French Depot: o Rue tie la Rail, Paris. Rotter Drug AMD Chem.
Cor I-., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A. "AU about the Skin.” f lee.
11
■
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’S
Cure for Gout,
Itheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine fot
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
Me Economy— A Suggestion.
Several of the largest offices in London
have equipped their entire staff with
SWAN
Fointaii Peis,
removing all Desk Encumbrances, such as
Inkpots, Holders, Racks, Extra Nibs, etc.
No—mere is no other Fountoin Pen “ just as pod.*'
“SWAN" PENS are fully guaranteed. Catalogue post free .
>j»a $ »mi iipk
93, Cheapside,
London, E.C. m
Sold by all Stationers. Jewellers, and Importers.
Weak Nerved People
This is to people who lack courage, whose nerves are
shaky, whose eyes have lost the sparkle, whose brains are
muddled, ideas confused, sleep restless, confidence gone,
spirits low, who are hesitating, unable to venture, because
they are afraid of failure, who want somebody to decide for
them. It is to people who have part or all of these symp-
toms of nervousness and want new life, new force. We
offer it to you in th«
Dr. Austin Electric Belt
It pours glowing, exhilarating vitality into you while you
sleep; it rejuvenates, animates sluggish circulation, stimu-
lates the brain to activity, and fills the body with life and
ambition,
It furnishes the motive power that runs your body, and
quickly banishes pain. It cures Nervous Disorders, Lum-
bago, Rheumatism, Stomach, Liver, Kidney and Bowel
Troubles, and that Tired Feeling, after every other treat-
ment has failed.
3F»-A.*ar WHEEKT CURED.
Any honest man or woman, who will secure us, can have our Belt, and pay for it when
cured. Our Belt is better and stronger than any made, and never burns or blisters the flesh.
FREE BOOK. —Our new Illustrated Book tells about our Belt, and bow it. cures the weaknesses of men
and women. We send it FREE, upon request. WRITE TO-DAY, and .you will be satisfied with the result.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., eg*-
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
Catarsii is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
fight and hearing, destroys
■ he sense of taste and' smell,
renders the breath, offensive,,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? if so,,try
our great remedy. "
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia,Goughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, s Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 22.9-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
‘ ' 1 < . ”\ "T'
, >; , ''' - ■: ■&**■•■ -
■■■ - ' ’" ' 1 8 ttm ,
’ ' i. j. “' - :
Hfe 2, JI; , f, i
! i. ,7 ;
i ... -■ ■- -
swwar.vrf
•'
...
f. fc 25
sae
Ganz&Co.
LIMITED
GU3APEST, HUNGARY.
Complete Electric
Lighting, Power„ na
Traction Plants ,
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS-
The Austral Otis
Engineering Co.
Cr. Hannah & Kavanagh Sts., South Melbourne. LTD -
k
m.
BOOK OF NATURE AND IL-
LUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE
bv Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with overaO engravings,new
1904 edition, nurd covers,
improved, 3s 6d. Magic Up-
to-Datk, Easy Oon.mjring
Tricks for Beginners, illus-
trated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, Oil. Neb
Donklly’s Art op Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Maria
Monk, Is 6d llow to
Dance, Is. Mom, Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d. Nana ; Piping Hot ;
Rush for the Spoil ; and all Zola's, Is Gd each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series,
2s. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter,
Humorous Dialogue Book, Gd each. Nigger
Stump Speeches, Is; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. Britain for the British, Gd.
Freemasonry Exposed and Explained, 1905 edi-
tion, with key to all degrees, Is. Cycle Buildins
and Repairing, tiew edition, 190 illustrations, Is ad.
Mai fad-ien’s Physical Training, is. Virile Powers
oe Superb Manhood, ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Hep-
tamkron. and many ouhers, all in cheap edition. Bride
of the First,Night, 1/3. Rosario, the Female Monk,
3 . How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing,
1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clair-
voyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy, is. How
to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing. Is 3d. How to Make Dove. Is, Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Picture
Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is Gd and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is.
Money Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets,
Is 3d Letter Writer Up -to - Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Last, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by l)r.
arren, is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of 'Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor, Is. French Art Studies, real
photos, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 23.
Bothner’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Knginkbr’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. iiuvv to Make Ur, illustrated
Guide lo tii e Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is,
San uow, 6s. Ur. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th.
Century edition, very latest, 1243 pages, over 460'
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Saitmo,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, is 3d,
Advice to Women, Is; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s.
MimviVE’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations,2s 6d.
Aristotle. 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Building Model.
Boats, Is 3d. Nkvv Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d. Stolen Sweets, Is 6d,
Blacksmiths Work, is 3d. Dover's Better W riter,.
Is. PHOTOGRAPHY, Is, LATEST SONG BOOKS, 3d,'
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s- i>ost,
Voltaire's Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d..
Ingersoll s Works, 6d, Is. 2s 6d, and 6s 6d.
ANir ANY BOOK you want.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,.
Business, Futurity, etc.,.with full directions, Is;;
posted, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free,
catalogues:—No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3;:
French Novels in lingiish. No. 4: Books for Pre--
sents. Nod: Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6::
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE. «*.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS.
NO T 1C E
To sufferers from G out, R lieu mnl.ism.Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingukstkis & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Load, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sor.D in two sizks, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment.
NOT BEING
A BELT
it will not tarn or blister the
skin— There fs nothing to
wear round the body to
foster germs-lt is sure,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
£1 of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
fpr yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
WRITE
for my new book ( illustrated) “Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and what you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
Ai.R.C.S
Eng-
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE.
by post, a perfect
HOME CUBE by tfc»t justly
celebrated FRENCH dO> ■
PETAL PHYSICIAN »“
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showinff sufferers how they niay CC«
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROLLLts.
Debility, and their seriou consequences. AJi
CURE pure and simple 'I al who need it. At,n ’
PARISIAN AGENCY, Oastlersagn St.,
SYDITEY. ,


NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. 1 assenger Lilt.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF lor Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
ROTHerhams
ENGLISH WATCHES.
<y*o
K R /$
%
%
/I
Ml
:rr
sold by all
WHO-CRN SHOW-
Jewellers.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
0 s
Til Try It *
The Only Certain
Moustache Produotr.
gapillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SOI.K AQKNTB.
\
The Result,
CRAIG &
House,
AITKENi N.S.VV. Barber’s Suppb
654 GEORGE STREET, SifJ.liA
No
Humbugging
Offers or con
ditions to
comply with.
In order to introduce our Goods into every
home, a lady’s or front.’s Rolled Gold VYeucli
Chain and Pendant, will be presented, entirely
free, to each purchaser of one pair of our Special
Cuff Links, price, 4,9. Please note that we send
the Watch Chain and Pendant complete in case
with warranty along with the Gull Links, im-
mediately we receive your postal note for 4,. ,
if 3d extra is added goods will be sent by regis-
tered post, and thereby save any risk of breakage.
Address, THE INTRODUCING COMPANY,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of
WEAPON, THOMAS & CO.
GUNMAKERS,
Corner of LITTLE COLLINS anti ELIZA3ETH STREET
MELBOURNE.
rpHE TRUSTEES offer to the public’ to clear the whole
of their Stock :
The Folding- Collectors Gun, 410 gauge—a, splen-
did gun for orchards ; best steel locks and
barrels, reduced to £1 10
Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892 model, any
calibre, half or full magazine, octagon barrel.. £2 12
Winchester Pattern Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle, 1904 model, 22 short or long, reduced to £0 13
Remington Pattern S.S. Rifles, reduced to .. £0 10
10 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top
action, walnut stock, with cartridge machine,
cleaners, complete : usual price £5 10s., re-
duced to .. £2 17
0 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine
turned rib bar and rebounding locks, left
barrel full choke, right modified, pistol grip,
cartridge machines and cleaners, complete ;
usual price £lO, reduced to £5
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, walnut
stock, bar and rebounding locks, treble wedge
fast cross bolt, special No. 1 pistol grip, choke
bore, unequalled for quality, with cartridge
machines, cleaners, complete ; usual price
£l5, reduced to £7 10
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, hammer-
less, steel barrels, complete with cartridge
machines and cleaners ; usual price £3 55.,
reduced to £1 12
0 0
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, Green, ss. 6d. 100.
„ Smokeless, Bs. 100.
„ 22 Short, Is. Id. 100 ; 10s. 1000.
„ 22 Long, Is. 3d. 100 ; 12s. 1000.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must b
made payable to WEADON, THOJIAS & CO.
Send for Catalogue, Post Free. All orders delivered
arriage paid to any State and New Zealand.
r vf
Early Issues of
1850-60
Purchased
Price Lists
Post /
STRAND ARCADE
AUSTRALIAN
POSTAGE
STAMPS
Cash senr
By
Return
Mail
“There is MON EY on your old LETTERS
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines & Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &e., &c.
Sole Agent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, EquitaLSa Buildings, George St., Sydney.
<9
Why You
Should Buy the New Oldsmobile
It is the simplest and most reliable runabout made—2s,ooo now
In use; the only light car that has been driven 3,SCO miles across
the America'iTcon.tinent; the in its class that took the
highest awards in the English Reliability Runs in 1903,
Seven proven horse power, S Inch tires, no gaskets, wclgns 1,100 lbs.,
splendid hill climber. Increased power, speed and strength over former
models.
Send to nearest agent for handsome catalogue showing Olds-
mobile light Tonneau Car, Touring Runabout and Delivery Car.
Olds Motor Works, Detroit. Michigan. U, S. A.
Australasian Agents : Duncan & Fraser. Adelaide, 8.A,; Hall & Warden,
w. A. Ryan & Co., Auckland, N.Z.
sS
EXECUTED BY
ILLUMINATING artist .
NSOAI
ROBERg
<£
OTis chamber
mz&m
r -) i<"-io Street
£lOO0 For 1 £lOOO
A Fortune for //- A Fortune for II-
£lOOO for Is-l
£lOOO for 18. J
FIRST GREAT
PRIZE
(£lOOO for Is.
[£looo for Is.
Or 12 Months’ Trip round the World, first-class, all expenses paid,
and £6OO in Cash for one person, or Eight Months for two.
And 139 other Important Prizes, ranging in value from £1 to £l5O.
Eight Hours 49th Annual Great Art Union
49th THE OLDEST AND MOST POPULAR 49th.
Proceeds In aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners Free of all Charges. A list of winning numbers will be posted
street, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and secure a chance in this Great Art Union.
Tickets Is. each, or 11 for 10s.
Applications foe tickets direct to the representative must reach Melbourne before Data of Drawing,
Moj r , 1905. be suß£ TQ TRY YQUR LUCK ,
Perspiration and Dust,
so disagreeable, yet so common In hot
weather, can easily be removed by using
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
Toilet Soap.
A pleasantly perfumed pure antiseptic
soap which can be used for all toilet
purposes and as a preventive of conta-
gion. It contains 10% Crystal Carbolic,
and so has a healthy action on the skin,
end assists to improve the complexion.
Calvert’s Carbolic Ointment
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients
to cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed
skin, piles, cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
ir> Insecticide
kj* $D Kills
fiZ. KV-gM' , Tf
• y*-Z4 «*.l NSECIS
ih\ ''r
of / l M jTATIONS
jftevy/^
n
Kruses
XXSSJfctf —' l " , “
SPOONER’S
ml - m t
m si.
Hfifw
SPOONER’S
illil
v Mr
ATINT UATH£« BOOTS
..'GUUCD WOSM
*«*** •**.**. .
'2«&B&rw«?s£s»* .
vs.»»» »..»<*s2saa
ssSem
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), la.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
RADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers.
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
THE PILLS
r m e!r^r^^VTo' n ati who b \tr s
recommends them to others. They have positively
no for thoroughly cleansing the system and
W*!„ S.'XfK? known
remedy P for Indigestion. Biliousness, Headache,
SXnrwrJ&S# SS
Of “every 5 age, find Holloway's Pills au invaluable
remedy and aid.
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs; Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
❖
c>
&
ft
*
St
&
$
Q


HENNESSY’S
BRANDY.
Messrs. Hennessy guarantee all their Brandies to be GENUINE GRAPE, and distilled from Wine only.
£5OOO Worth of D [ &! 0 Q
BIRTHDAY nlnUO
Watches. Bracelets. &c.. given away
to introduce New Life Rlectine Reme-
- dies. You pay nothing. Simplysend
your Name and Address on a Post Card, and we will send you 2 Boxes of each
Of our lour famous Electlne Remedies, to sell at i/- per box. A grand remedy
and cure for all impure and weak conditions of the blood,
kidney and liver trouble, constipation, weak nervous dis-
orders—a tonic and life-builder. They are easy to sell,
as each customer who buys a box of pills from you re-
ceives a prize ticket, which entitles them to a handsome,
piece of Table Silverware. Send us your order at once
and we will send the pills and prize tickets, post paid.
When sold, send us the money, and we will send you
the Birthday Ring
and Mizpah Brooch,
or any other prize
you are entitled to. Remember, you are selling
an article of merit and in return you receive
honest prizes. You take no risk. Goods re
turnable if not sold. Our Pills are genuine
carefully manufactured from the very best
drugs. Beware of imitations.
■*MI2P AH*-
Extra I’rize. Send your order at once,
and w« will giv* you for promptness
with thelucky Hirtliday King, an exquisite
oid Gold cased Mizpah llrooch. Re-
member, if you w.ite us now, the brooch
will be givi-n you Kree as an extr i prize,
! in addition to the Birthday Hiny.
To each month is d dicuted
a precious stone. Any per-
son wearing- the enchanted
stone < f their birth mu th
insuies them great and un-
failing good luck.
Thus to January i« dedi-
cated the garnet; Fe ruarv.
amethyst; March, blood-
stone ; April, diamond. Ac
ELECTINE MEDICINE CO., Ash St., Sy ney, N.S,W.
s.
HARRINGTON and
RICHARDSON’S
SPECIAL OFFER,
No. 1 Steel Barrel, 30 inch, Pistol Hand, Oase-hardened Frame, Top Snap Action and
Automatic Ejector, 12 gauge, Complete in Canvas Case .. .. .. jE/ 12s 6tl
No. 2 —Similar to No. 1, but without Automatic Ejector .. .. .. £i fo s o C j
POSTAGE FREE to anv address In Australia.
Me LEA /V RIGG, 147 Bnxabeth st., Melbourne.
m
X*V
St
FOR INFANTS
AND
INVALIDS
One Quality—the BEST.
CSTLt
wv
therichest-^^4
IN CREAN\ ,a
TRADE MARK
BEST
THE
MARKET
IN
THE
v v:
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes front
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
tariff, 10s. 6d pex* day, or apartments maybe
pec11red''separately by the day from 3s. and jpwar Is.
Cards of Tar.ff and all Particulars posted on ippi « a
1011 to The Manager.
MAKES tin SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
Agents— Elhott Caros.,
if A *
V
at 9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL ANS
REFRESHED
I N
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A. 2/6
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Sydney; Felton, Gri.nwsde & Co., Melbourne.
SB
mm
%
mm
m
mi
......
Wallaroo Smelting Works f Wallaroo, S.A., Roofed with RUBEROiD.
AGENTS in
other States
MELBOURNE, Vic. -
ADELAIDE, S.A. - -
FREMANTLE, W.A.-
LAUNCESTON, Tas.
HOBART, Tas. - -
- Brooks, Robinson d Co., Ltd.
* A. W. Sandford & Co.
" d. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
The Tasmanian Woolgrowers’ Agency Co., Ltd
William Crosby d Co,
Ruberoid Roofing
. . FOR . .
SMELTING WORKS.
aa
Because of its well-known
acid and fume-proof qualities
the towers and sheds of the
Wallaroo Smelting Works,
Wallaroo, S.A., were roofed
with RUBEROID ROOFING.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voe. 26.-No. 1312.
THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1905.
Pkiok 6d.
GO ON THE LAND, YOUNG MAN!
SIMPLE SIMON: “WELL, I HAVE ALWAYS BEEN URGED TO ‘GO ON THE LAND,’ SO HERE I AM.”
THE LAND AGENT : “WHY, CERTAINLY. NOTHING EASIER. DROP YOUR GOLD INTO MY HAND AND DOWN COMES THIS SLIP-RAIL.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ A ii.st ml in for the A astral in ns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS J
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there ; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part' of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded ivithout stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A nintears in lilaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Goteli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson Jt Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal ;
JI. R. Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co.,
llliodcsia; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
xhzZZeZzat.
THURSDAY. APRIL 6. 1905.
N.S.W. LANDS DEPARTMENT.
It is not necessary to presume any individual’s
guiltiness as the result of the recent public
disclosures regarding the N.S.W. Lands Depart-
ment—not necessary and not just. It is quite
possible that, as the result of the full inquiry
which, it is fair to presume, will be made, nothing
will be shown warranting the indictment of any
person, unless it is the farmer or settler person
for being a fool. But what is absolutely certain
is that a system has grown up in connection with
the Lands administration which is injurious to the
public, and should be promptly swept away.
“Goon the Lands Department, young man,” as
advice to the young fortune-seeker, has long been
a standing sarcasm in this State (and if not in
other States, for the want of the wit rather than
of the reason), and present revelations prompt to
action by which that advice will become obsolete
and meaningless.
• * * *
The corner of the veil over the secret places of
the N.S.W. Lands Department was lifted by the
evidence given in the case, Sims v. Browne and
another. Sims and certain of his relations had
settlement leases in the Moree district, held under
strict conditions as to residence. Each was
obliged to keep in residence on his own lease.
They wished to get away from this condition and
to run all the leases together as one holding.
Sims came to Sydney to see what could be done.
Browne, his stock-agent, told him that he knew
an agent who could fix the matter up. This agent
pro ved to be W. N. Willis, then M.P., and Sims
decided to employ Willis. He therefore paid to
Browne £6OO, partly in cash, partly by a p. n., to pay
Willis for his services—when a successful result
was achieved, according to one story, without so
strict a condition according to another. At any
rate, the money was paid over at once to Willis.
The conversion scheme failed, and Sims sued
Browne for the recovery of the money. The case
Rad proceeded to a certain length when Willis
Offered to pay back Browne all he had received,
less the amount of his costs, when Browne was
willing to pay Sims, and a judgment was entered
aaSppdingly. During the hearing of the case, as
• far as. , it proceeded, there were various more or
lees cryptic references to other and similar trans-
actions ; a matter of “£15,000 over the Myall
(>eek Resumption ” was, for instance, mentioned.
* * * •
To those people who have anything of an
“ inside ” knowledge of politics there was nothing
startlingly novel in what was revealed by the case.
It is a matter, if not of public, at any rate of
fairly wide knowledge that several members of
Parliament have been at various times acting as
land agents, and that some of them have been
taking fees from the public for “ seeing land
matters through ” either the Land Court or the
Ministerial Department (which is the High Court
of Appeal in practically all land matters). It has
been whispered that, in many cases, these fees
have been wonderfully generous, suggesting a
very large-minded view on the part of the client
of tile laborer’s hire, or a tacit understanding that
there was more than the above-board work to be
considered. And there have been further wins- j
pars true or untrue —of this or that man
“ makin? a pile ” out of the N.S.W. Lands
Department. All this—some of it fact, some of it
clearly close to fact, some of it more or less idle
rumor—has had its-effect in creating a very com-
mon impression that the Lands Department is not
“straight.” However much or little justification
for that impression, it is deplorable that it should
have been created, and now that the fact of its
existence has been so publicly advertised no excuse
can be alleged for delaying a month longer such
steps as will put the Lands Department before the
people as an institution with the same reputation
as regards honesty and purity of administration as
the Supreme Court. The present Minister, Mr.
Ashton, has done a great deal to deserve public
confidence, and the reform can well come from his
hands.
* *
It is not possible to imagine any N.S.W.
citizen outside of an idiot asylum offering to any
.agent a huge sum to “fix up” a suit for him in the
Supreme Court. Even the man who will make a
wager as to the opening of a stranger’s matchbox,
and listen with simple-faith to the tale about the
uncle in Fiji, knows enough not to try that game
—knows that if he has a civil suit in the Supreme
Court there will be aio use in going to a member
of Parliament with a big fee “to see the thing
through.” But, in regard to the Lands Depart-
ment, which probably on the whole has as vast
financial responsibilities as the Supreme Court,
which certainly has the disposal of more
valuable property than all the banks in the
State combined, and which by a decision
can make or unmake great fortunes, there
is no such confidence. Many men, hard-
headed and acute men at that, .think that it is
necessary to- approach the Lands Department
through some intermediary, the douceur to whom
is alleged in, some cases to run to a Supreme Court
Judge’s salary for a year ; and a member of Par-
liament who. makes it his business to be an inter-
mediary generally finds that clients come quickly
and pay generously. It may be that these men
who come to the land agent—the politician land
agent for preference—are mistaken, and would get
what they want from the Lands Department
without paying an enormous fee for such guidance
and intercession. It certainly should be so. But
that is evidently not the public impression,
or those gentlemen would not make such
fat livings. People don’t . pay heavily for
what they know they can get for nothing, though
sometimes they will pay unwittingly for what is
really free. Perhaps in the Lands Department
justice is free and decisions are amenable to no
influence. But th,e man on the land does not
think so. It is very easy to understand why
settlement on the land does not advance as quickly
as it might when, the impression of the settler is
that his transactions with the Government can
only be carried; on, through a woefully expensive
intermediary.
* * * *
The theory of our land system is that the land
is, yielded up, by the State at far below its real
value, on, condition that the grantee puts it to a
use, profitable, to, the country. That is the reason
of all the elaborate improvement, settlement,
apd residence provisions, in various Land Acts.
With the onerous.conditions the land is generally a
fair bargain ; without them it would be something
in the nature of a gift. The constant effort of
speculators is therefore to get hold of land, paying
only the nominal State price for it, and in some
way getting out of the conditions imposed. Such
people provide a large proportion of the land
agent’s clients, and their willingness to pay a big,,
fee to a naan who. can secure what they want is
natural. A: favorable decision may put £2OOO or
£20,0)0 into a man’s pocket : he is willing
to even go halves with, the man who can get
it for him, if it is a desperate case. Another
section putting its trust in the land-agent is
made up of men honestly striving to fulfil :
the conditions imposed by the State, but perhaps
attacked bv the wiles of some speculator, or
forced by stress of fseasons to demand some
modification of a bargain which has become toe
hard. There are excellent reasons why the land
agent should not exist for either class. The -
speculator deserves no encouragement, and should
have poison laid for him in every Lands Office.
The honest settler should have no need of an
outside intermediary. It is the State’s duty to
provide him with all possible facilities for putting
his case before its tribunals, since its avowed
policy is to get him on the land and keep him
there. In fact, there is no room around a. Lands
Department, which is honest, and wants to be J
known as honest, for any land agent at all, and
most emphatically not for the land agent who
is a member of Parliament. That should be the
central principle of a proiaapt reform in the
N.S.W. Lands Department.
A PLOT THAT IS HATCHING.
Everything points to a determined Tory effort
to plant the yellow and black in the Northern
Territory. There is, for one thing, a remarkable
crop of pro-nigger literature, much of it sent out
from the S. Australian Government Printing
Office, more of it stamped with official approval
and scattered largely by Government aid. Then
there is the appointment, as S.A. Agent-General,
of Mr. Jenkins. On the White Australia question
Mr. Jenkins has performed an easy somersault, and
his last speeches in the Commonwealth abounded
with references to the coffee-colored man who is to
bring great wealth to Australia. Mr. Jenkins
goes to London via America, and it isn’t much of
a secret that in America he is going to talk cotton.
In his baggage there are reports from Mr. John
Bottomley and other people—all pro-cotton, all pro-
nigger. Their idea is the Indian coolie—“ fellow-
subjects of the Crown,” Mr. John Bottomley
cunningly calls them, as though the fact that
Britain formerly collared their country made
them any more desirable to us as neighbors and
sons-in-law. The mere fact that a handful of
Britishers can hold their country, while denying
them all governing power, proves them undesirable
people with which to stock a continent. They
couldn’t hold their own country—millions of them
wouldn’t attempt to hold it, for they don’t care
who governs them, and are utterly incapable of
governing themselves—and what good are they to
help hold Australia ? And the population Aus-
tralia needs is a population that will fight when
the inevitable invader comes. Moreover, while
they won’t fight themselves, a servile population
will spoil the rest of the population as a fighter
and a defender. “T found that in Fiji,” Mr.
Bottomley says in the report which Mr.
Jenkins has in his carpet-bag, -“22,000 Indian
coolies have been introduced in recent years. . . .
The Fijian is growing more and more disinclined
for labor.” Precisely. It always happens. Bring
in a servile class, and the other class won’t work.
And the man who won’t work isn’t long before be
won’t fight either. Even .when he is a Britisher,
and goes on the S’African veldt, lie has to take Lis
champagne case with him. The men who’ did the
hard-fighting there were the men who did the
hard-working at home.
* •* « »
But perhaps the most deplorable fact of all is
that in this matter Jenkins takes the good wishes
of tens of thousands of otherwise desirable Aus-
tralians. In S. Australia, it is affirmed by good
authorities, who make the admission with shame
and sorrow, that a vote to throw open the Terri-
tory to the nigger would show once more
how shrewdly the ex-book-drummer has judged
the temper of the people. Even the Jap war has
helped. “The Jap will come toAustralia,” they
argue, “because the northern lands are open.
People them with coolies, and Britain will help to
keep them out.” This shows a touching faith in
Britain which rests upon nothing in particular.
It is highly improbable that, if it came to the
pinch, Britain would help us to keep the Jap out
of even the-southern parts of Australia ; and if it
wouldn’t do that when there are here some four
millions of white people, it certainly won t bar the
■vast north against an ally because there may be
there a few thousands of coolies. Once indeed
■consent to admit the coolie, and out goes the
strongest argument against admitting the Jap—
the racial argument.
• * • «
The purity of race is the thing to he aimed at.
'The half-breed is the scorn of the world—a freak ;
abnormal; occasionally flashing into great intel-
lectual brilliance, more often degenerating into
intellectual and moral depravity; unstable and
unreliable always. And- when the races do not
mix, things are hardly better. In America, under
circumstances precisely similar to those which it
is now plotted to set up in Australia, the states-
men hardly dare consider the future. John
Morley, the most respected thinker in England,
visited the States a few months ago, and took
back these impressions :
Another serious, suggestive, and apparently almost
insoluble problem in the United States was the enormous
multiplication and gradual advance Northwards of the
freed black population of the South. If that movement
went on there might, at the end of this century, be a
population of something like 60 or even 80 millions of
■colored people in the United States. That was the retri-
bution that followed wrong. What did it come from ?
Africans were brought into the Southern States, exploit-
ing land, much as Chinese were now being brought into
:Suuth Africa to work the mines. People might have to
wait even 50 or 100 years before Heaven sent in the bill,
but what sort of eventual harvest could be expected when
the foundations of a State were laid upon an inferior
■civilisation ?
Moving Northward? Already the black man
has elbowed his way into White House. Only
two things can happen in the end. Either the
races must mix, and America must become a
nation of half-breeds, the same as the unstable,
racketty peoples of South America, or one of the
two races must be wiped out or reduced to subjec-
tion. John Morley calls it an “ insoluble pro-
blem.” But the savage in . mail always has a
habit of settling, or trying to settle, his “insoluble”
problems with a blow. There was a difficult
racial problem in S’Africa that, after all, looked
like solving itself; not a large problem—yet it
late’y cost tens of thousands of lives and tens of
millions of money, and it is still unsolved.
* * * *
To the argument that the coolie isn’t the negro,
and that th 3 coolie would only be admitted under
indentures (that is the Fiji plan, and that is the
proposal with regard to the N. Territory), there
is this objection : that if the coolie isn’t to make it
his ho ne, what right has he there ? How does it
strengthen the Australian case against the
threatened Jap incursion ? The Jap will be per-
fectly entitled to argue that that isn’t settlement
at all—and it isn’t. A country belongs to the
people who will themselves use it. On ethical
grounds, what right have the people living in the
south to levy tribute from people who will work
i a the north ? For southern Australia to import a
few casual coolie laborers won’t help it in any
argument with the Jap. And they won’t help
Australia either when the case gets beyond argu-
ment. The only effect the presence of a servile
race, who will do Australia’s hard toil, is likely to
have upon Australians is to make them, also, less
capable of that kind of argument. Yet if this
country is to be held “for the Empire,” the white
Australian must hold it. The nigger never will.
Least of all will any nigger who, it is deliberately
proposed, shall have no “stake in the country.”
Granting, then, that it may be years before the
white Australian is sufficiently numerous to
■occupy all Australia, a short cut to occupation by
dumping in an abject race will make matters no
better, but only worse. Australia has tried several
short-cuts already, and they have all been disas-
trous. It tried a short-cut to settlement by
handing over its lands wholesale; now, at great
expense, it is buying them back. It tried a short-
cut to greatness by importing enormous amounts
of foreign capital; and it isn’t yet out of the
bog to which that short-cut led. Flow many more
bogs will Australia have to fall into before it cries
short-cuts “ off ” ?
WHAT IS AN AUSTRALIAN?
This seems to he the season for definitions.
“ Em ” fvrites
I want you to state, straight out, in few and clear
words, as you have done on Socialism this week, what you
mean by “ Australia for fehe Australians,” and what 'you
propqse as the best' meads of bringing it about. VVhat
■constitutes an Australian ? Here am I, a red-hot Austra-
lian in spirit, but born and brought up in England until
'23 years of age. Where do you place me in your category
of “Australians”? The A.N.A. won’t have me, even
thous-h they will my daughter, who is longing to go to
England and doesn’t care two straws for Australia, her
native place. Please speak out. Don’t suppose I’m the
only one waiting for a clear definition.
The day this arrived Mr. M‘Go wen, leader of
the Labor party and Opposition in the N.S.W.
Parliament, was expressing some moderate satis-
faction that the Carruthers Government was at
least a native-born one. Evidently, as they say
in Parliament, “ the time is ripe ” to discuss the
question : What constitutes an Australian? Is
birth in Australia an essential of a national Aus-
tralian ? Is birth in Australia of any importance
as a factor in national politics at all ?
* * * *
There is, of course, a good reason of sentiment
why a citizen should take a personal pride in his
native country and city, glorying in its success,
sorrowing in its reverses. The converse is also
true —that there is some reason to look askance on
a citizen who takes no interest in ’ * ' -a
country, unless he is in the case of having, for
good and sufficient reasons, “ adopted ” some
other nationality. But it is logically absurd to
argue that being born in a certain spot makes for
any particular virtue ; that contention is on a
level with the absurd hereditary monarchical
system by which a man is supposed to be made a
ruler by being born in a royal bed. The only
reason for attaching any importance to being born
in Australia is that the assumption is natural that
the native will take a particular pride in the pro-
gress of his country, th at he, in short, will be a
good Australian. Only so far as that assumption
is justified does Australian birth deserve to be
exalted. An immigrant to the country who-
proves to be a patriotic citizen is just as useful,
just as admirable. The essential is to be a good
Australian, not a born Australian.
* * * #
The Bulletin would define the ideal National
Australian as an adult enfranchised citizen of the
Commonwealth, of white blood, who knows the
English language, and is conversant with the
main principles of the constitutional government
of Australia : and who puts the interests of Aus-
tralia first in all his public actions. That is wide
enough to include with native-born Australians,
Britishers, North Americans, Frenchmen, Ger-
mans, Scandinavians, Russians, and other Euro-
peans who show that they have made Australia
their home and Australian progress their aim,
forgetting the countries which gave them
birth, recognising that a living is a bet-
ter gift than birth. It would be to the
greatest degree absurd to seek to limit the Aus-
tralian National movement to the native-born in
this still young country, where there is necessarily
a large proportion of the citizens born abroad but
educated in Australia, whose whole sympathies are
with Australia ; and where there is another large
class (to which our correspondent belongs), made
up of men who have come here in adult life, and,
finding the land good, have resolved to identify
themselves with its aspirations. These are, as a rule,
exceptionally valuable citizens. “I was brought
up in the North of Ireland,” said a N.S.W.
Labor leader the other day, “and saw what a
hell religious strife made there. 1 feel now almost
as if I could choke any man responsible for
bringing sectarianism into this bright new land.”
He represents that section of Australia’s immi-
grants who have learned, by noting the mistakes
of the past, the paths of wisdom for the future;
and are prepared to enter heartily into the demo-
cratic aspirations of a National Australia. No
section should be welcomed more eagerly by Aus-
tralian patriots, and any narrow, exclusive society
which seeks to make Australian birth a test for
worth makes a serious mistake in boycotting them.
It has also to be kept in mind that Australia hopes,
in the near future, when its fields and its factories
are thrown open, to attract immigrants of white
blood from abroad ; and the more the new-comers
can be absorbed and identified in Australian
ideals the better for the progress of the Common-
wealth ; and that cannot be realised by any vain-
glorification of Australian nativity. White blood,
knowledge of our tongue and devotion to our
ideals—that’s all that’s called for to make an
“ Australian.”
As to the best means of bringing about
“Australia for the Australians to answer that
fully would need a summary of the varying points
of 20 years of articles. But the essentials may be
set down
An industrial policy to foster in Australia the manu-
facture of everything necessary for its defence, and for its
maintenance in decent comfort if the seas were sealed by
an enemy ; and to encourage the growth here of an indus-
trious, well-paid white population.
A land policy to banish the landlord monopolist and
keep Australian acres for Australians who will use them.
A steady disregard of all arguments and appeals oa
behalf of “ the Empire ” as something above Australia and
to be considered and served before it; a resolve that
Australian interests are to come first always in every
relation.
Opposition to the granting of any titles or pensions
from abroad as rewards for Australian politicians who
betray Australian interests.
A self-contained, self-maintained defence system, both ,
by land and sea, paying no subsidy for outside assistance,
expecting no subsidy, of men or money, from abroad for •
defence.
Such are the essentials of an Australian,
national policy. The man (or woman) of
white blood who is willing to subscribe to,
them, and to follow them faithfully, is a
good enough Australian for all practical pur-
poses, whatever his birth-place. Recruits to
that platform from abroad will fill the places
of very many who are Australian born, but
who do not stand for such principles, prefering
to ape the manners and customs and ideas,
of outside countries. It is a fact that very often a
man is a better Radical for being such by deli-
berate conviction and not because of his position ,
in life. It is also a fact that many a man is a
better Australian for having known the conditions .
of other countries and escaped from them to the .
freer life here.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Australian Passion for an Obsolete Gun.
When Dr. Jameson made his notorious raid on
the Transvaal, he found Kruger’s Boers armed
with Martinis and sporting rifles. Some three
years later, when a British force of much larger
proportions raided Kruger’s country, they found
toe Boer with the Mauser, the Orerisot,
Krupp and the Vickers-Maxirn (pom-pom). The
Boers’ modern weapons put Tommy Atkins’ obso-
letely out of it. Not till Cronje surrendered did
the British forces ascertain what a modern
machine gun was like. Great Britain has a habit
of being behind the fair in the matter of
guns. And Australia keeps always behind
Britain, so that it may purchase the dear old
other country’s cast-off weapons. When Britain
dropped the Snider rifle for the Martini, Aus-
tralia picked the old blunderbuss up, and paid full
price, too. England discarded the Martini in
favor of the magazine rifle (Lee-Metford). Aus-
tralia dipped into the scrap heap for the old
Martini—again at full price. Then England hung
fire for a time, and Australia had a chance of
getting level in guns: but didn’t. Rather, it
bought a bastard weapon called the Martini-
Enfield. The first contingents to S’Africa
took Martini-Enfields over. When they landed
they were ordered to throw them on the scrap-
heap, and Lee-Enfields were put into their
hands. Now England finds the Lee-Enheld
out of date, and adopts a new rifle. Agam
Australia takes the refuse. So the game will go
on till some day a large hostile force will bump
against Australia’s shores, and finding its 11 }}) a^ 1 '
tants armed with prehistoric weapons, will do
to them what Julius Cassar did to the ancient
Britons. Unless the Australian Parliament, witn
the shadow of Mukden on the wall, takes warning-
It only took the Boers three years to arm them-
selves in such a way as to stagger the greates
power on earth. Australia, with infinitely greate
means (all Boerdom only about equalled Tasmam
in resources), should be able to doatleastaswe^-


A Point in Constitutional Law.
Some little while ago the question was raised by
the Victorian Government whether the salaries,
paid to Federal Ministers and officials by the
Federal Government are subject to taxation by
the States in which such Ministers and officials
reside. A test case was brought before the Vic-
torian courts to decide the matter. The Victorian
courts held that such salaries are properly taxable
by the States; but the High Court, on appeal,
reversed the judgment, and as it was a constitu-_
tional interpretation matter, and therefore exclu-
sively within its jurisdiction, refused leave to
appeal to the Privy Council. The Bent Govern-
ment then instituted proceedings against another
Federal official. The Victorian Full Court followed
the ruling of the High Court, and entered judg-
ment against the State of Victoria—which then
applied to Mr. Justice Hodges, sitting alone,
for leave to appeal to the Privy Council.
Justice Hodges granted the application
(confessing, in delivering his judgment, “I
approach the subject with somewhat of a
bias”), and contended in doing so that the Com-
monwealth has no power to take away from
any State citizen the right of appeal to the Privy
Council, which right, he said, must remain intact
until altered by the British Parliament. There
can be no doubt that the Commonwealth possesses
no such power unless it has been invested there-
with by an Imperial statute. But the Common-
wealth Constitution Act is an Imperial statute,
and unequivocally conferred that power upon
the Commonwealth in certain cases ! Section 73
of the Commonwealth Constitution Act pro-
vides, inter alia :
That the High Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and
determine appeals from the judgments, decrees and orders
of the Supreme Court of any State, and the judgment of
the High Court in all such cases shall be final and con-
clusive.
And section 74 declares
No appeal shall be permitted to the Queen in Council
from a decision of the High Court upon any question,
howsoever arising, as to the limits inter se of the consti-
tutional powers of the Commonwealth and those of any
State or States, unless the High Court shall certify that
the question is one which ought to be determined by Her
Majesty in Council.
Nothing can be clearer. The question is just such
a one as is unmistakably described and defined by
section 74 —the limit of the constitutional powers
of the State of Victoria over Ministers and officers
of the Commonwealth in the matter of taxation.
The Privy Council will, it is practically certain,
set matters right by refusing to hear the appeal.
“ I confess,” said Mr. Justice Hodges, in coming
to his decision, “that I approach the subject with
somewhat of a hias.” It is an unfortunate fact
that many State Judges seem to approach any
matter affecting the High Court “with somewhat
of a bias.”
♦
A Social Experiment.
Moobak and Pyap, two more of the village settle-
ments on the Murray, in S. Australia, are to be
closed. It’s a sad little bit of history altogether.
In the remarkable social awakening that began
with the Dockers’ Strike in England, and which
the collapse of the borrowing boom made very real
in Australia, two voices were heard. One called
for “the simpler life ” ; the other for Labor repre-
sentation in Parliament, with Arbitration and a
few similar things in view. The more thorough
and strenuous of the “ simpler life” people looked
to “New Australia” ; but inS. Australia, among
a people less given to travelling, they mostly
turned to the communistic village settlements
on the Murray. Between them these two groups
of settlers gathered the most ardent of “ the sim-
pler life” people; and thousands of others, who
looked hopefully also to the same way out of
social troubles, were half-ready to follow. But
nothing but failure was reported. New Australia
was disorganised ; the S. Australian communities
wilted and abandoned their ideas ; and now, after
years of modified “mateship,” with the mate-
ship” moulting gradually, the villages are steadily
foing back to primeval wilderness, in spite of the
tate aid which has been given them. It
was, no doubt, necessary to make a protest
against the garish and insolent artificiality
which was a natural consequence of the Australian
borrowing-boom madness; but in these experi-
ments the pendulum went too far the other
way. Yet they provided for no conclu-
sive test as to whether the modern human
is capable of communism; for the conditions
were too severe for even individualism to
survive under. One thing has, however,
been proved, the hopelessness of planting in-
experienced men away back far from our markets
—not very good markets at the best, thanks to
the absence of any large manufacturing popula-
tion. There is a vague idea that all that the
Australian agriculturist needs is water. Yet these
village settlers had water ; the Murray, in its best
part, was at their feet; and still it was all failure.
Because of the want, first of agricultural know-
ledge, and then of a handy and active market.
—. +
Concerning Socialism.
“ Matter-Of-Fact ” writes
Your answer to query “ Are you a Socialist ? ” (“ J.E.5.,”
B. 16 3/’O5) seems to me to lack that fervid candor and
explicit plain-dealing- so characteristic of the paper at all
times in dealing with public questions ; for it still remains
unanswered in the sense a great many of your readers
would wish to ask the question. If I were to ask a man :
“ Are you a vegetarian ?” and he replied, “Well, I eat
potatoes, and cabbage, and beans, &c., every day, and I
find them very good,” my question would be still un-
answered, for vegetarianism is a cult or theory resting on
certain definite principles ; so is homoeopathy, so is feu-
dalism, so is Socialism. Each has its own formula and
seeks to achieve definite results within those limits. De-
mocracy alone of all systems of Government is free to adopt
under all circumstances whatever is best for the publicgood.
It is bound b3 r no formula or limitation whatever, except
to guarantee to the individual absolute freedom in mind
and conscience, and security in all his natural rights in
his person, property, and family. Socialism, on the
other hand, does not recognise any of these. To its
formula nothing is sacred, as everything must give way
to the public good (its final goal), as decreed and deter-
mined by the pro/anum vulgus. It therefore absolutely
destroys individual liberty, which it does not even recog-
nise. That is the very essence of the system. The degree
of Socialism which the present generation proposes to
itself, at the initial stage, does not affect the case.
Though I am not enthusiastic for Land Nationalisation,
I can endorse what you define as your “ view of socialism
and a platform for Australian Nationalists for the present
time,” but 1 am an uncompromising anti-socialist whether
the scheme be evolutionary or otherwise, and so seriously
do I regard the idea of a co-operative Commonwealth,
although I have lived 41 years in Australia, and my wife
and children aye Australians, yet I would sell off and quit,
or, if all else failed, be prepared to take up arms to smash
the thing up as a degrading tyranny, if established. .
Follow some references to the abuses of the drink
traffic and of dancing places, to defects in land
administration, to the folly of Freetrade, and so
on, leading ultimately to the conclusion that the
people of Australia have “ hardly enough virtue to
run a co-operative tote shop, let alone a co-opera-
tive Commonwealth.” And “Matter-of-Fact”
winds up with a full endorsement of the socialistic
programme outlined by The Bulletin ! His
letter, well-written, sincere, gives a hint as to one
of the reasons for the deplorable dilatoriness
and sloth of Australian political life. There is
too much wordy warfare about names and
titles and brands, and too little of that spirit
which prompts men to work for what is essential
without troubling about what it is called.
“Matter-of-Fact” calls un-candid a statement
and definition which was absolutely explicit, and
which he generally endorses, and wants to group a
great tendency such as Socialism with little out-
size fads such as homoeopathy, vegetarianism, and
philately—as a matter on which a judgment can be
expressed with a “yea” ora “nay.” There is no
use in quibbling as to words when the occasion
calls for deeds.
♦
The Great Australian Cadge.
“ Scotch-Australia ” writes, in bitterness of
spirit:—
When I landed in Australia, some 32 years ago, there
were few beggars, blind men were almost unknown, and
a spirit of sturdy equality prevailed, which seemed rudely
demonstrative to one accustomed to degrading servility
on one side and haughty bumptiousness on the other.
Nowadays, the blind are numerous, the smoodgers are
many, and the cadgers seem almost to be in the
majority. Worst of all, most of these seem to be
natives of the country 1 In the cities, hundreds hang all
day about the street corners and parks to cadge “thrums,”
drinks, tobacco and matches, or to pick up any uncon-
sidered trifles which may come their way. Others work
quite intermittently and give up the best of their lives to
hunting down M’s.L.A. and the charitable, for easy
billets, or for loans to take out the bailiff, or to tide the
missus over her confinement, or to pay the time-payment
man, or to give them a fresh start in business. In the
country towns, hundreds of the purposeless spend their
time in spitting over bridges or in the dust
outside pubs., and the bulk of the anti-Socialist
cookies devote their evenings to the composition of cadg-
ing letters and petitions—for free railway freights, free
seed wheat, the remission of interest due to the Treasury
on C.P.’s, the suspension or reduction of rents on condi-
tional or homestead leases, and the erection of a bridge
“ agin me own dure.” The anti-Socialist bush townships
are continually grovelling before the Government to
beseech that it shall erect bandstands in their parks,
public baths, schools of art, agricultural-show build-
ings, and dozens of other things which any self-
respecting community or municipality would provide
by its own collective effort, and without feeling
the strain. In short, it seems to me that the people
of Australia are changing the initiative, independence
and manliness which were their finest characteristics,
for a sneaking, double-faced servility which bows the
knee and tweaks the forelock to anyone who may have
something to confer, and then, behind backs, winks and
pokes out a disgraceful and derisive tongue. Some
folks argue that this growth of a slippery slavish-
ness is due to the modern trend towards social-
ism. Not so—true collectivism implies that every
man and every commune shall do his and its very
best to benefit the community as a whole, and shall
not throw on the people at large a sectional or an
individual burden. The cadging, crawling epidemic
with which the epidermis of Australia is now afflicted
makes for tyrannical and not for democratic government,
for bureaucracy and not for collectivism—for the
cadger is unfit for self-government, and is fit only
to be trampled on. Surely here is a matter for the
churches, the schools, the philosophers, the moralists,
and the Labor party to grapple with. The suspicion that
these degrading propensities may grow has caused me
to ask myself these questions : Is the Australian climate
at once too genial and too enervating for the continuous
reproduction of the independent, the manly, the self-
reliant, and the industrious ? Is the native-born of the
third and fourth generations doomed, save in matters of
sport, to be greatly inferior to all his progenitors in
stamina —physical, mental, and moral ? But it seems to
me almost obvious that the lack of independence In the
individual is largely a consequence of the financial
dependence of our State Governments. The Government
leans on the foreign moneylender; the oltixen and the
municipality lean on the Government. The Government
borrows, and the imitative individual therefore begs.
♦
The Fat Free-Bird and the Lean Gaol-Bird.
The Melbourne shareholders of a Starr-Bowkett
building society assembled and stormed together
last week in the matter of ex-secretary Carey’s
alleged defalcations and disappearance. Caret’s
total supposed deficit is estimated at £4OOO, more
or less, and his present place of residence is ’Frisco,
the popular resort of the Pacific Slope. Touching
the question as to why the defaulter is permitted to
flout the Law from afar off, the directors of the
maimed society have stated their case :
We were prompt in deciding to enforce the law, but
through Carey being out of the Commonwealth the police
required us to sign a guarantee to pay any expenses in-
curred by them. As this guarantee was unlimited, we
demurred, but proposed to pay the necessary expense of
cabling to the police authorities of San Francisco and
elsewhere to learn Carey’s whereabouts, and to have him
kept under surveillance. This the police would not do,
except we signed guaranteeing unlimited expenses, and
left it to their option as to what amount they would in-
cur. As we know of specific cases where thousands of
pounds had been incurred in like circumstances without
avail, we considered we were not justified in going further
than we proferred, and we believe you, as shareholders,
will approve of our action.
The story of ex-secretary Carey is one more object-
lesson in what may be called the injustice of
criminal law administration. In theory, the big
embezzler and the petty thief run the same risk
of punishment, whilst the design of an outraged
Law is to fit the punishment to the crime. In
practice, a large offender is almost secured against
the conviction which almost inevitably overtakes
his little brother, by reason of the fact that he —
the fat man—is able to fly to foreign lands before
a warrant issues for his arrest. The bird flits on
a pair of ill-gotten goldon wings, bearing the last
fruits of his crime in his greedy beak. The other
fellow has neither golden wings nor any beak to
speak of, save the “ beak ” who sentences him to
“three months hard.” Because he hasn’t stolen
enough money to purchase means of escape from
justice, he has the police on his track, and the
Law takes its course, whereas the track of the
free bird is unpoliced, and the Law, in his case,
takes no course whatever. Petty thieves are
captured at the expense of the police department,
the expense ofttimes being rather heavy. Rich
emigrant thieves can only be captured at the
expense of their victims. The law will not stand
the cost. Justice is thus made a slave to cash
considerations, and the fat criminal goes free on
account of his cash.
♦
To Make Sugar White.
“ The Wreck ” considers some means of making
the sugar industry a successful white man’s busi-
ness :
In Dr. Maxwell’s initial report on the Q. sugar indus-
try, he made no remarks re attracting white labor —he
wasn’t imported for that purpose by the nigger Govern-
ment of the day—but he lias learnt something which,
under present favorable conditions, results in an endeavor
to encourage whites. Evidently he is almost the only
sugar-boss who possesses the memory of a clean, comfort-
able home, and realises the demoralising influences of
“barrackdom”—dirtiness, unhealthiness, and discomfort.
Slumdom has its counterpart in the huts of farm and
station workers, the fo’c’s’les of “ limejuicers,” and the
barracks of sugardom. But it is useless to seek support
from the present school of sugar-bosses, who have been
too long used to a tied labor, ignorant of its scanty rights
before the law and unable to defend itself from petty in-
justice. Many of the present school, too, have become so
decadent that they, honestly enough, have no faith in
their own race and color —the almost invariable result of
their connection with black labor. These are not the
men from whom industrial salvation will come. Dr. Max-
well must gradually replace the johnnie-bosses with new
material trained in the central bureaus. In addition to
knowing something of cultivation and manufacture, the
new bosses must have a knowledge of hygiene and
sanitation. They must be familiar with the best methods
of purifying stagnant, skeeter-breeding swamps and
lagoons, and have sufficient brains to keep wood-stacks,
latrines, silos, open drains, stables, and other vermin
haunts at a healthy distance from cook-house and sleeping
quarters. The average johnny-incompetent thinks the
water-supply too trivial to be worth studying ; while any
acquaintance with such sordid items as latrines is de-
grading. Technical classes in the slack season, and the
issue of certificates for theory and practice, would evolve
a class of steady, efficient men for the best billets, thus
saving bosses the work and anxiety of breaking-in men.
Promotions should be secured to local men, and the
stranger with “a letter from the head office” should be met
with a glassy eye. A comfortable man is more reliable and
economical than an uncomfortable one—the latter wants
big money, so that he can quickly get the means to travel
in search of better quarters. (This, by the way, is the
class, to whom the Dr. referred in his first report, as an
“inferior class!”) Comfort, and consequently content-
ment, is impossible under the present system of herding
men of various temperaments under one iron roof, with or
without partitions. lie wages, the Bingera system is the
best all round —no pay-day, monthly statements and all
(or part) drawn at 24 hours’ notice, thus retaining one day
in hand. Monthly pays mean forced credit at the local
store, and Australia is full of busted storekeepers and
absconding customers. No deductions —any form of
deduction is dishonest and impudent. As for the bonus
system, the genuine bonus is good enough ; but a portion
of one’s pay kept back to ensure docility is not a bonus.
Fear of losing this “ bonus” prevents local ventilation of
grievances, and results in lack of ordinary care in the
work during the season, and anonymous letters in metro-
politan papers w'hen the job is finished. Then the boss
wonders to find his mill notorious when he thought it
was just like the others. Where men are decently
housed and fed, and there’s no juggling with the pay, or
cunning little infringements on the time, there will be
no need for bribery or signing one-sided “agreements”
(unstamped and' unwitnessed) in which the employee
agrees to be treated like a child, and the employer agrees
to pay the wages if the serf is very docile. There’s plenty
of available labor to pick from, and by judicious weeding
and references, Dr. Maxwell can keep the best always in
call. So plant a few shade and fruit trees, and go ahead.
♦
Springfield (Vic.) shire is just now thinking of
borrowing £6OOO to build a Shire Hall. Spring-
field boasts not a single township, being merely a
collection of farms, with parts of P«,upert Clarke s
runs. It has a population of 706 in 143 dwellings,
spread over 111 sq. miles. On a Is. rate, its
revenue is £Bl4, and it owes £l3O. And it
proposes to borrow £6000! Springfield may
presently rival the record of even iverang
the awful example among Victorian shires.
Rerang spreads over 1465 sq. miles, has a popula-
tion of 7400 and a revenue of £5547- Its borrow-
ings are : Under the Act of ’93, £235,170 ; under
the Advances Act, £5623; under the Wire Netting
Acts, £7326; under the Bush Fires Act, ’96, £629;
and for its local waterworks, £58,964. Besides
these huge sums the council also borrowed on its
little own—l/l/’B5, £15,000; l/l/’9O, £4OOO ; 1/3/ 98,
£7ooo—though against these latter it has sinking
funds totalling £10,937. Altogether these 7400
persons owe municipally some £322,755, as well as
their share of the State debt.
Archdeacon Gunther is about the latest laborer
in the vineyard to dig at Socialism. ‘ ‘ Where has
socialistic legislation made people happy and
prosperous ? ” he asked in a sermon on the sub-
ject. Well, for one place, at Parramatta, which is
the Archdeacon’s special corner of the Vineyard.
Socialistic legislation has established two big insti-
tutions there for the housing of the old and the
infirm for whom Private Enterprise has no more
use; also it has provided cottage homes in the
same place for many other old couples; and if
socialistic legislation hasn’t made these two or
three thousand people prosperous, it has at least
made many of them tolerably happy. And as to
prosperity—well, Private Enterprise built the
railway from Sydney to Parramatta, and ran it
for awhile, and made such a mess of it, and
charged such appalling rates, that Parra-
matta petitioned the Government to pass
some socialistic legislation and take over the line.
The Government listened to the petition, did
what was 'asked, reduced fares and freights, and
made Parramatta fruitgrowers and others highly
Srosperous. What’s wrong with Archdeacon
•unther and his kind is just this: When
Socialism does good, it isn’t Socialism; when it
doesn’t, it is Socialism. Yet the Archdeacon
would probably feel hurt if Christianity were
only credited with its wars, butcheries, burnings,
tortures, and persecutions.
- ♦
Grant Hkrvey writes about Maoriland
Had a long talk the other day with a public man who
has been looking hard at things in Seddon’s country. He
says that Richard of Kumara is troubled about the birth-
rate ; apart from that, there are no bad dreams on his
E remises. The secret of Seddon’s success is that he runs
is Government upon plain business principles. Skddon,
who bosses the Treasury, Education, Defence, Labor, and
Immigration Departments, in addition to holding the
Prime Ministership, is virtually the managing director of
the national business. Ward, who runs the Railways,
Post and Telegraphs, Health Department, etc., is an asso-
ciate director, but liable to be spanked whenever
Richard thinks fit. Oarroll, who is a cross between an
Irishman and a Maori, acts as general bagman ; and
Seddon sends him up and down the land to make
speeches, dance hakas, and otherwise preserve the public
equilibrium.
Seddon displays very keen judgment in the managing
of departments. He works the private secretary racket
for all it is worth. He picks out clever, business-like,
well-educated men, and utilises their brains for the bene-
fit of the country as a whole. The Conservatives com-
plain that Seddon uses his surplus to square troublesome
people, and others are continually harping on the charge
that he shoves his friends and relatives into Government
jobs. The people as a whole take no stock in these
grumblers, though ; and, speaking generally, R.J.S. ia
about the only Premier in Australasia with an absolutely
clear track ahead of him.
As to the general condition of the country, opinions are
much divided. The Government and the munieipalitiee
are vieing with one another in expenditure, but borrowed
funds are being used to a disquieting extent. This virtu-
ally means that Maoriland is indulging in a fictitious
prosperity, and a bump is sure to come. If the popula-
tion would increase quicker, there would be less cause for
alarm. Another thing, M.L. imports much too freely for
its size. Von Dadelszen, the Oogiilan of the Land of the
Moa, says that the imports for 1903 (the latest figures
available) totalled £12,075,959 in value. Contrast this
with 1895, when the imports only amounted to £6,115,963,
and it will be seen that M.L. is importing far too much
for a country with only some 857,000 inhabitants. The
public debt is large—it amounted to £57,622,216 in 1904
but, as a whole, the country is better off financially than
the Commonwealth. Seddon reckons he received 20,000
Australian immigrants last year, a claim which for us
Australians is alarming and significant.
»
Japan has raised £30,000,000 on the security of its
three-year-old State tobacco monopoly. So that's
what a tobacco monopoly is worth —foreign finan-
ciers will lend £30,000,000 on the goodwill of it!
It is in Japan a national asset for something over
£30,000,000. It isn’t much wonder that the Aus-
tralian private monopoly (it practically amounts
to that) will spend money like water in the fight
to keep what it has got. But to the public it
works out this way: If a tobacco, monopoly is
worth millions in the market (and it is now proved
that it is), the men who own it expect it to pay
interest on those millions. So the men who buy
tobacco not only pay for tobacco, but they also
have to pay enough to earn interest on the mil-
lions which the goodwill of the monopoly is sup-
posed to be worth. The goodwill cost the Trust
nothing—it is a nebulous, paper asset; it consists
just of the power to keep other people out of the
market. Still that power is worth millions, and
Australia has to pay interest on those millions —
it pays interest every time it. buys a plug of the
Trust’s goods. And in return it gets nothing. It
has simply made a present to a foreign trust of
what might be a vast national asset —of an asset
which Japan has just mortgaged for £30,000,000.
♦
In the U.S.A. they are finding out about the
Press Trust. Congressman M’Oall, of Massa-
chusetts, in a recent speech at Harvard
pointed out what peril to the nation resides in a sort of
partnership between great financial interests and the
press. Nowadays, so fierce is the newspaper competition
in the large cities of the country, that he would indeed be
a rash man who would think of starting a daily news-
paper without millions of dollars behind him. Money,
not brains, wealth, not convictions, is the necessary
basis of the enterprise. The proprietor of a great news-
paper must necessarily be a rich man. His interests are
identical with those of other rich men. It is natural that
he should follow a policy calculated to resist change, one
designed to conserve the interests of the class to which
the newspaper proprietor belongs, not the interests
of the average man. A community of interest among
the owners of great newspapers is being estab-
lished, and we shall have “news barons” as well as
“ steel barons.” He predicts a condition under which we
should have the really strong newspapers “smugly pro-
claiming to the multitude the freedom so full of blessing
to themselves, and the struggling, short-lived newspaper,
wildly crying out for liberty, and smearing on the yellow
in order to gain a living support.” Between the two
sorts, he goes on to say, most people would not be on the
side of the “ sleek, thoroughly commercialised champion
of privilege, trying to lead public opinion in the direction
in its own interests, baffling justice in her eternal struggle
to give one measure to all men," but on that of the
“miserable, starveling yellow sheet, crying out against a
system of government for the benefit of the few.”
It is becoming more and more apparent that Bent
Thomas really doesn’t mean business in his State
brickworks move, although he has acquired a
block of land adjacent to Thornbury station, on
the Northcote line, has put down three shafts
within a space of three acres (two about Bft., the
third 30ft. deep, and has got good brick clay,
from which bricks have actually been baked), and
has bought £6OO worth of machinery from a
Collingwood firm with which to make the bricks
for the kiln. What the enterprise, if it were car-
ried through, would mean to the “combine” may
be gathered when one observes the idle brickworks
standing around. Three hundred yards away
from Bent’s paddock are the Clifton works,
buildings idle ; half-a-mile towards Brunswick is
another idle yard; half-a-mile on the Northcote side
are two more, and another a mile away. A mile to
the south are seven kilns, only two of them working,
and four miles off are the Brunswick yards, barely
half of which are working. In the Eastern
suburbs, Blackburn, Tunstall and Ringwood boast
idle yards—kept so by the “ combine,” which then
has the amazing effrontery to say that bricks at
40s. a thousand don’t pay. That is the sort of
“ free competition” private enterprise believes in
when it gets the chance, and that is the reason
why in Brunswick, right alongside the brickworks,
130 houses were last year built of imported wood,
while only 26 were constructed of good Australian
bricks. If Bent likes he can do a roaring trade
in bricks, resulting, in a sweet addition to next
year’s surplus ; but incidentally he will do a con-
siderable damage to the timber importers, and he
will make the brick “ combine ” wish it had never
been born ; and as both these crowds are “ right-
thinking ” persons of great tonnage —well, Thomas
is bending again.
As Attorney-General, each of the three
S.A. Judges virtually appointed himself to the
Bench. One result is a promised private member’s
Bill for next session barring any such appointment
in the future till Parliament has approved.
Which would bring the Bench perilously close to
party politics; yet it looks as though something
will have to be done.
The Banded East.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the Cossacks fled at Mukden,
When the Russian legions broke,
Then the spirit of the victors
In that moment surely spoke: —
“ The West shall kneel before us,
And her triumph flags be furled ;
We have won the Crown of Empire
And are masters of the world.
“ Long we slept as sluggards slumber
(Had they let us sleep ’twere well),
But they roused us with their world noise,
With their ci’ies of Buy and Sell I
“ They forced their trade upon us,
And they opened up the East ;
And as lions smelling red meat.
We come famished to the feast.
“ They taught us their war-wisdom,
How to parry, how to thrust,
And, behold, their stoutest champion
Lies blood-weltering in the dust!
“ Do they dream that Russia humbled
Will repay us all our pains ?
Do they guess the lust of Empire
That runs riot in our veins ?
“ Let them listen ! . . . ’Tis the Mongol,
He shall know their strength a lie,
And make answer out of China
To our far sent battle-cry.
“ He shall make the nations cower—
They shall tremble at his shock —
His power shall overspread them
As a wave o’erspreads a rock.
“ Let them listen ! . . . ’Tis the Brahmin,
’Tis the Hindu —Britain’s slaves ;
They are restive in their thraldom
As live men shut down in graves.
“ They shall burst the earth above them,
They shall drive their lords afar;
There’s a whisper in the temple,
There’s a word in the bazaar.
“ Here and now their doom is sounded,
And their day of power is done ;
And a sun of bloody menace
Shall arise their morrow’s sun :
“ For, as Russia flees before us,
With her peasant, peer, and priest,
So shall Europe in that near day
When we come a Banded East.”
NOMEN.


Pe mutual [ife Insurance Co. of new (fork
PTHIT aun * TV. _ ** UU J
RICHARD A. McCURDY, President.
STATEMENT for YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1904
(as received by cable). 7
/iS<S6ts,. ##
Contingent Guarantee Fund and Divisible Surplus " £9 °’ s49 ’ 000
income, 1904 .. pms • • » 15,268,000
Payments to Policy-holders, 1904 ” ** ” 18,521,000
Insurance in Force .. ' " » 7,137,000
__ " " •’ •• n 317,784,000
chM ? es)
previous year. 6 of #3,440,000 over the
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA-
Company s Building, Martin Place and Pitt-street, Sydney.
GeN KRAI. MANAGER.
SEMPER IDEM.
FACILE PRIIMCEPS. |
BUCHANAN WHISKY,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Orchid.”
Theatre Royal “ The Betting- Book.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Knight-Jeffries Co.—Farewells.
„ _ f “East Lynne” (Thur. & Friday)
Theatre Royal „ La Fil f e Du Tambour Major.”
Opera House Little Tich.
Prince’s Court Continental Bazaar.
Exhibition Building .. Eight Hours F6te —April 8 & 10.
♦
For the last nights of his campaign in
Sydney, missionary Holt’s sermon is on the
foolishness of backing ’em ; though, since punter
Albert Norman is left at 11 o’clock in the most
comfortable chair in the most ornamental mansion
that artist Brunton knows how to build, and Miss
Bollock, the punter’s wife, is farewelled at the
same hour in a 15-guinea evening frock, while Ikey
Charles Brownstein has pawned his bag and is
hawking stay-laces in the disguise of a Syrian
Eedlar, the sermon isn’t as convincing as it might
e. If missionary Holt would only knock out the
last act of Sutton Vane’s new play, and simply
hoist a notice to the effect that the continuation
could be seen at the King-street corner, and plant
Norman there with a barrel-organ, and Miss
Bollard with a bundle of extra-specials—“ Full
’count er the races ! ’’—the alleged moral would
hit this city a good deal harden
* * * *
As a melodramatic story ‘ ‘ The Betting
Book ” is, in short, pretty thin ; but you get your
money’s worth in football-scrum, and a two-round
go between “Ginger Bop ” (who is B. Holt) and
“ Cockatoo Charley,” and a punching-ball exhi-
bition, and a hurdle-race with one of the jumps on
the stage, and a raid on a tote-shop, in addition
to two weddings, one christening, and the usual
quantity of murders. The unseen geniuses who
turn the “Garden of Love” (which is the mis-
sionary’s poetic way of saying an apple orchard)
mto the Bindara football ground while the
orchestra plays two bars, haven't time to breathe.
Act 111. has seven scenes, some of them with
elaborate mechanical effects. The raid on the tote-
shop (Melbourne will “spot” the shop first try)
is a very remarkable piece of stage mechanism
indeed. Most of the scenes are barely on
nodding terms with the plot. Norman’s infatua-
tion for backing-’em is, in fact, merely a handy
string on which to thread a dozen “sporty ”
tableaus. As for the melodrama itself, it is the
usual frayed old thing—so far as the story of
woman s faithfulness to man can ever be frayed.
Take him by himself, man has a sneaking regard
for the female sinner, especially if she’s young and
plump. But man in the mass, packed in the
theatre, with a crowd looking at him, is a highly
virtuous animal; and when the punter s wife says
that the bad egg has ruined the husband, but he
lsn t going to ruin the wife—“ Hooray, hooray ! ”
~P» Mter all, the chances are that the same story
of faithfulness will be relished till the last lights
are turned out, and there is no man left to say
Hooray! ” J
■** * *
The members of Bland Holt’s co. are, for
the most part, in their familiar places, though
Miss I ranees Ross is still out of the cast, ill.
Baker is N orman’s brother-in law, and helps him
out of his messes. He’s a squatter, and rich and
rollicking—evidently hasn’t met a rabbit or a
mortgage in his life. Miss Bollock has the heavy
y»rt of the punter’s wife, and, being beautiful,
things have to turn out all right for her in the
® nc *—that is the first rule (or thereabouts) of melOr
drama. She does very well. 8,. Holt and wife
supply commendable comic relief, with an
occasional lift to Virtue when it gets into diffi-
culties ; Styan and Charles Brown are the bad eggs
that get Nonnan to back ’em (incidentally,
Styan says he’s in love with Miss Bollock, but
there is only his word for it, and he doesn't say it
as though he meant it); five real horses and five
tni ones join m the hurdle race beforementioned,
and everybody else, right through a number of
well-studied small parts down to a scared dog that
makes a superfluous appearance at the Billy and
B.lupy pub., does well enough to deserve a com-
prehensive vote of thanks.
** * *
Sydney’s, civic fathers are unique in their
notmns of fair-dealing with showmen who lease
-a"" HaJl - The ordinary rent charge is £lB
or WU, but a clause in the agreement provides
that a lessee, who is producing a specially expen-
sive ■ star must pay extra rent, on the ground,
perhaps, that a high-priced audjence is likely to
damage, the. chairs a,nd knock corners off the
interior of the building. The nprmal maximum,
charge for reserved; seats is, 55,, and the hail is'
rented at £2O to a five “bpb” showman. But if
Ips maximum charge goes higher than'that, he is
Lf+i? X r a -« 5 T ] Cr nig V for Uvpry shilling
thnfo to t^ e A ten “ bob ” con.cert means'
that an extra £25 rent is levied upon the specu-
lator who, for his part, may be getting smaller
receipts than if he had charged half-a-crown for
admission. This sliding scale of taxation applies
only to concert managers, not to people who
h f l S a > ll rfJ om. The municipal
landlord thusfar has forgotten to draw any rent
dm ,motion between the high-toned guinea ball
and the more plebeian five “ bob ” hop.
& iil-
Warfch Brothers will unfold the elephant
and the anaconda at Brince Alfred Bark on
Saturday, 15th inst.; also, the lion who has been
across to see Seddon will be presented over again,
along with most of the other things that filled the
green tents at Christmas-time. Chefalo, the man
who loops the loop with variations that make you
hold your breatn, hasn’t so far managed to break
his neck, but by using an ordinary bicycle and
narrowing his track he reckons to get close up to it
before the season ends. His “leap ” this time will
be 50ft. ; and if he doesn’t clear it he falls
among elephants and camels. Other newcomers
to Wirths’ are Doyle and Denny, who have dis-
covered new ways of falling over one another ;
two chimpanzees, which (or who —writer isn’t
sure) do an acrobatic turn; and visitors are
earnestly requested to keep out of the way of the
new crocodiles with which the menagerie has been
supplied.
*3tc ft slc
Kara follows Tich at the Tivoli, but the
same audiences don’t follow Kara. Yet he does
some brilliant work. Monday night, fresh from
a long-sea voyage, he hadn’t found his stage-
legs, and made more slips than pleased him ; but,
in a day or two, no doubt, his juggles will be as
deft as they are daring and difficult. No
juggler can manage to deal out an entirely new
pack of tricks ; but many of Kara’s lot have never
been seen here in other hands. Also, he adds
some fetching frills to his knife, fork and turnip
juggle, which was reckoned about the highest
achievement of the old school of light-handed
tricksters. Later on this week Miss Pierce, an
American impressionist, joins the show, after
hitting Melbourne hard. Among minor turns,
that of Miss Maggie Fraser, of the twinkling feet,
calls for notice.
** * *
The gilded bladders used in “The Orchid ”
carnival scene for thwacking policemen, cabmen
and Prime Ministers are, happily, losing their
strings and going to pieces. All other items are im-
proving. The grand operatic interpolation in the
Promenade des Anglais scene gives Miss Bassian
and Mr. Haigh Jackson a splendid opportunity to
prove their singing voices. Mr. Fred Leslie’s
eccentric dancing does not pale, neither does
Lauri’s motor car swindle. Evelyn Scott’s singing
of “ Little Mary ” is now enhanced by the addition
of a verse about “ Australia’s only George’s little
Mary.”
** * *
Melbourne theatres are still concerned
with fugitive revivals these ante-Easter times.
Al. th® Royal they have just disposed of
“Camille,” and after four nights of life’s fitful
fever the consumptive lady of easy virtue is
doubtless sleeping well. Camille, as presented by
Miss Duggan, was a jaunty, robust demi-mon-
daine who appealed to the Anderson public in a
series of bright new gowns and wrappers, making
Dumas’s old French play look uncommonly like
a new British yellowdrama—The Worst Woman
m London converted into The Most Senti-
mental Person in Paris. Of its kind it was
a forcible and. even an artistic perform-
anc ®> f° r . ar t is a wide term, and when
a lady in roseate pink satin has to
101 l upon a red-covered chair beside a blue
mantelpiece, she must either act gaudily or seem
quite out of place. Miss Duggan and co. fretted
their three hours upon the stage to the prettv
general satisfaction of a full house. The story
iront straight to the audience’s feelings—as a rule.
Many women subsequently remarked that Duval
pere was a nardarted ” old man, whilst the shrill
gallery boys discussed the foolishness of Armand
in chuckin’ his money at his donah. They were
mostly wondering whether the egregious cad re-
pented of his recklessness between the acts and
took the trouble to recqver his spondulix.
* * *
“East Lynne ” is the bill for Thursday and
Friday the closing nights of the season. The
jpim nrk re^a^e “East Lynne 0 lately earned
£llOO. a week for manager Anderson at the Bijou,
therefore the performance to-night (Thursday), in
aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital building fund, pro-
mises to prove a very substantial benefit. Criti-
cally considered, “East Lynne” is at any time a
touching argument in favor of St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital, for if Little Willie had been taken there
he probably would have pulled through his illness.
** * #
Saturday the vastly paragraphed revi-
vaiof ‘Tambour Major” falls due at Melbourne
S' .-Then will the “exceptionally fine body
of 100 picked voices be put into evidence ; also a
corps de ballet will “ execute a celebrated minuet ”
the music whereof is exactly 105 years old, though
the arrangement of the dance dates back no fur-
ther than the time of Kate Vaughan, who staged
first time. The advt. doesn’t explain
why this music should deserve special credit for
bemg so old nevertheless the 105 years are quoted
as 100 virtues and everybody who takes an
interest in such details is hoping that the well-
matured melody will be something wonderful for
IDS.
** & *
At Her Majesty’s, the Jeffries-Knight Co.
h.as concluded three-nights, of “ The Sign ” in its
E™ 1 Q° rm ’ u US an J a P?theosfs sceneshowing how
Marcus Super bus and his Mercia met in the Light
mcr?fl d - what t ™ e the lions were devouring tlfeir
-not Vven % ° f the ° ther Early Christians
afteh death h *® phanus -PfP «P among the clouds
alter death., so it would seem that the Light
characters .reserved for leadmg
Fr div Vln S hver King ”is running until
On Saturday the attraction will be
ygmalion and Galatea,” a rare revival, and
,? a wil l farewell with
te ll e i L i y , of Eyo v s - Julius Knight pitched
his tale of love to Pauline in Melbourne some
years ago, and pitched it very well, but Miss
Maud Jeffries was not the bamboozled bride on
that occasion. Her Pauline ought to be an in-
teresting study in stilted emotional acting if she
chooses to let herself go. Two nights next week
Her Majesty’s will be closed, prior to the revela-
tion of Andrew Mack and his co. from America
in a drama based upon the poetical fact of Tom
Moore.
** m *
Little Tich, fresh from Sydney, began to
shake his legs at Melb. Opera House on Monday
night, and the star of Rickards is fixed high in the
heavens for some time to come. At the Bijou,
the current melodrama is “After Dark,” which
used to be a more distinctly Boucicaultian work
than it seems in this instance. Prince’s Court
stands in the same place as before, and the Exhi-
bition Building is about to make its annual Eight-
Hours Demonstration.
** * *
Marzella’s birds continue to jump through
flaming hoops and rescue themselves from ship-
wreck at Adelaide Royal. On their first appear-
ance they indiscreetly worked in a cheap sneer at
the Jewish race. The down-trodden Hebrew
protested in the dailies, and the item was promptly
cutout. Hawtrey’s one-act drama is a brightish
spot in the programme. The Jubilee Exhibition
continues to show what an unexpectedly large
number of things S. A. can manufacture for itself
if the public will only buy them; and it is open
every evening.
The Wild Cat Column.
A sample of how they still do things in Wes-
tralia, which will have the boss deficit this financial year.
The Estimates were rushed in at the last moment, and
members were so anxious to break up, that whole pages of
closely-printed items were rushed through without
scrutiny or comment. £2OOO was voted for country fire-
brigades ; now it is discovered that a couple of towns
down for £2OO a piece never had a brigade. In other
departments similar recklessness is being exposed, and
instead of vigorously setting to work to get things
straight, Premier Daglish and most of his Ministry have
let them slide. Daglish took 12 weeks to attend the Pre-
miers’ Conference, the Minister for Mines has been scarcely
a day in Perth since the beginning of the year, and with
the exception of Johnson, Works Minister, the rest of the
Government are constantly flying over the country.
Johnson is a good, honest grafter, and seems to have
little sympathy with Daglish’s mark-time policy. With a
decreasing gold yield and a falling revenue, the prospects
of Westralia are none too bright, and there is a loud call
for a firm, capable, business man.
* • * •
Some of the papers are still worrying over what
will happen to the poor farmer and other people when the
N.S. W. Government borrows locally, as it says it is going
to do—some day. The idea seems to be that the Govern-
ment is going to swallow the coin. Ashton is a big-
framed man and might hold considerable bullion, but
Carruthers is a man of small holding capacity, and, after
all, he is Treasurer, so there doesn’t seem to be much need
to worry on that account. And, anyhow, there isn’t any
proposal that Carruthers should go in for the coin-
swallowing business. All he proposes to do is to borrow
locally; and if he also spends locally, then there
will be just as much money available for the poor
farmer and the other desirable borrower as there
was before. The Treasury will borrow from Jones,
who has his money in the Bank of N.S. Wales ; and the
Treasury will leave the money in that or some other local
bank ; and presently it will draw cheques and pay Smith
and Brown for making a culvert; and Smith and Brown
will put the cheque back in the same or some other local
bank ; so that the banks will have just as much coin as
ever they had—just as much money to lend to the poor
farmer as they had before the Treasury came on the scene
at all.
* * * *
The new building for the Savings Bank of New
South Wales, built by the Citizens’Life Co. in Moore-
street, Sj'dney, and over which chairman See got into hot
water when he was Premier, is now ready. The land it
occupies was one of the early purchases of Citizen See’s
co., and for years gave such a small return that, on
figures, it looked rotten business. But it is turning out
trumps. The block belonged to the Starkey estate. At
one boom-time the owner is said to have been offered
£60,000 or £70,000 for it, but the co. got it for £32,169, or
at the rate of £l7O per foot. Later on the co. sold 33ft.
for £290 per foot, and the price on which the Savings
Bank business is based is £3OO per foot, which is the muni-
cipal val uation.
* * * »
The Union Trustee Co. (Melbourne): —
Invest-
ment
Fluctua-
Ordinary tion Jtte-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1894 .. £2797 4 per cent. =£2953 £lBB7
1895 .. 3649 4 „ „ 2953 2583
1896 .. 555 2 „ „ 1476 1662
1897 .. 2742 4 „ „ 2953 1451 £2789
1898 .. 3005 4 „ „ 2953 1503 674
1899 .. 2299 4 „ 2953 849
1900 .. 1066 1£ „ ~ 1107 808 819
1901 .. 2722 3* „ „ 2584 946 306
1902 .. 2886 4 „ ~ 2953 879 1006
1903 .. 2848 4 „ „ 2953 774 314
1904 .. 3255 4 „ ~ 2953 1076 301
1905 .. 3427 4} „ „ 3322 1181 332
For the last half-year the dividend was at the rate of 5
per cent., and possibly this may be continued, though for
the present it won’t leave much to add to the small
reserves. Still profits are moving up in a very cheerful
fashion. It is satisfactory also to note that the co. now
furnishes a little more information regarding its business.
Interest earnings (now shown apart from commission)
amounted to £2835. On the average of all assets held
during the year, this would show a return of £3 13s. 7d.
per cent. ; but as there is a small amount not earning
interest, the effective rate would probably be about 3j
per cent. On capital (£73,822) and reserves the interest
return was £3 15s. sd. per cent.; on capital alone, £3 16s.
9d. per cent. The assets include £lO,OOO of Vic. 3 per
cents and £22,400 Queensland 3£ per cents (held by the
Governments in trust), and therefore included at par;
and this brings down the average earnings. Other
investments (including- £21,042 mortgages and foreclosed
properties) are therefore far better than they would
seem to be if they were judged by the average
interest return ; apart from the 3 and 3| per cents men-
tioned, the assets are not overvalued, so far as can be seen.
The trustee work of the co. is evidently increasing
rapidly, though the total value of trustee estates in hand
is not disclosed in the published accounts.
Trustee co.’s have a habit of complaining that
they don’t get as large a proportion of trustee work to do
as they should, considering their very low charges, their
special facilities for doing the work, and the guarantees
of fidelity which their capital affords. The complaint is
perfectly just, and their claims for a large share of the
business are perfectly sound ; but to some extent they
have themselves to blame, through not giving more ample
particulars regarding their work. The Union isn’t by any
means the worst offender in this respect; in fact, it sets
out its assets in exemplary detail; and when, next lime,
it furnishes the figures showing the total value of estates
in hand, the man who proposes to make the co. his exe-
cutor will know practically all about the co. that he needs
to know. Even now the chairman gives these figures—
£l,93l,623, though whether that includes the Queensland
business also isn’t very clear.
n Wellington AND Manawatu Railway
C/0. (M.-L.) I
Railway Land Dividends Total
lifoo’ Profits. Profits. and Bonus. Reserves.
loyo •. £63 194
1899 .. £6,258 £1,849 sp.c.= £8,500 62 731
1900 .. 8,094 8,099 6„ „ 8 500 70 424
1901 .. 8,773 7,856 6 , 10,200 76,863
1902 .. 7,969 3,624 6„ ” 10,200 78 256
1903 .. 10,361 35,221 16 ~ ~ 27,200 96 638
1904 .. 11,036 6,940 7,, „ 11,900 102,’744
1905 .. 10,030 6,561 7,, ~ 11,900 107,435
The reduction in railway profits is due to a considerable
increase in expenditure—partly traffic expenses, but
largely on rolling stock and machinery ; on the latter
£15,727 was spent as against £13,227 the previous year
As the co. continues to sell back to the people land which
it got from the people for very little 20 years ago, the
railway takings of course improve. The record in this
respect during the past few years has been
Railway Working Expenses to
Revenue. Expenses. Revenue.
1900 .. £94,046 £44,429 47'2 per cent.
1901 .. 96,270 46,562 48'4 „
1902 .. 104,208 65,203 52’9
1903 .. 111,398 60,129 53'9 „ „
1904 .. 122,183 63,682 521 „ ,
1905 .. 127,733 72,616 60'8 ~ ”
Working expenses do not include directors’ fees, rates and
taxes, and some other office expenses. The co.’s capital
is £170,000, but it has outstanding debentures amounting
to £680,000. Its assets include—Railway and rolling
stock, £816,730 (the cost was £1,010,198, but £193,468 has
been written off); freehold lands, £30,718 (the Govern-
ment valuation is £34,494); land purchasers’ balances,
£51,585; and Government debentures and deposits,
£80,730. In addition to the reserves shown above
(£107,435), there is a semi-reserve of £24,500 provided for
“ maintenance of line, insurance, and contingencies.”
The Wellington and Manawatu Co. thus looks a
highly prosperous concern, with its reserves creeping up
towards the total of its own capital. And yet, if it
had to depend upon its railway profits, it would
look nearly as sick as most railway concerns in new
countries. Even on the value of line and rolling-stock
as written down, last year’s profit, which was well above
the average, shows a return of only £1 4s. 6d. per cent,
after paying debenture-holders. Taking the debenture
capital as ordinary capital, the return was £4 2s. 9d. per
cent. ; but the debenture-holders call for 5 per cent.
The co. ’s profit has therefore to come out of land concessions.
There are precious few developmental railway-lines in the
world that do pay in any other way ; yet the Australian
States, instead of endowing such lines with surrounding
lands, and using the money derived from the sale of those
lands to wipe off some of the capital debt on the lines, have
used the money as revenue, and left the original debt to
Oohen just as it was. And even where the land was already
sold there isn’t any serious attempt to make it pay
some of the cost out of its increased value, in spite of the
fact that only in very rare cases are such lines capable of
earning interest and working expenses ; and there was a
tremendous row when in Queensland lately Morgan and
Kidston tried to provide for a little of this straight,
honest thing in connection with future works. The
prospects of even this seemingly highly profitable
Wellington and Manawatu Co., in spite of the land
concessions, are none too glittering. It has now under
£35,000 of lands left to dispose of; and, though its railway
profits may be expected to go on improving, still at
present, as shown, the line (which will be all that’s
left soon) is returning only £4 2s. 9d. per cent., whereas
on three-fourths of the capital (that is, on the debentures)
the shareholders are pledged to pay 5 per cent. Yet
public lines are expected to pull through with no help
at all.
There is, by the way, one good thing in the
Manawatu Co.’s Railway Bill. The State may take over
the line (that is a general provision), paying 10 per cent,
over the valuation ; but it was expressly provided in the
Bill that the goodwill of the concern belongs to the State.
Even, therefore, if the co. earned 20 per cent., it couldn’t
bleed the State, supposing the latter decided to buy.
* * * *
The Wallaroo and Moonta Mining and
Smelting Co. (S.A.): —
Written Re-
Profit. Dividends. off. serves,
1901 .. £29,957 Nil £24,973 £11,652
1903 ... 62,999. ty p.c. =£Booo 22,469 44,182
1904 ... 518 2J „ „ 8000 20,760 15,940
The dividend shown in the last line was paid in March,
1904. The catastrophe which the figures indicate was
caused by the fire which occurred early last year.
Ordinary operations were quite as successful as in 1903,
The profit from the co.’s works and mines was £80,958;
but the fire alone cost £78,368. Whether it was all sheer
loss is, however, doubtful. The co. had been hanging on
to the old methods and appliances for many years, and
this disaster gives the management a chance to re-model
things. Some of the outlay has been charged to capital
account (£13,379 for the new central power equipment),
but mostly the co. has made a clean sweep and charged
things up to profit and loss. The principal sources of
profit have been :
Smelting Cementa- Sulphuric
Works. tion. Acid.
1902 .. £8,978 £26,247 £3604
1903 .. 36,558 23,081 4507
1904 .. 44,702 28,388 2773
A profit of £3304 was also made last year on purchased
matte and smelting ores—in previous years the corres-
ponding item only ran to hundreds. As to costs, &c. (per
ton copper), comparing 1902 and 1904 :
1902. 1904.
Mining £36 3s. 3d. £41155. 7d.
Smelting 13 17 6 1318 6
Profit (smelting ores) .. 210 2 4 5 10
Cementation costs .. 18 12 2 14 4 8
The product of cementation has to be smelted—cost of
this, without shipping, &c., was last year £7 4s. 2d. per
ton of copper. This highly profitable cementation business
(the leaching of the metal from old refuse dumps) is, of
course, only a matter of a few years. The costs in several
directions were increased by the fire, though what was
lost in this way is not debited to that accident in the
figures previously quoted. No dividend is to be paid this.
year.
* * * *
At its annual meeting, the other day, the,
directors of the Citizens’ Life office gave some remarkable
undertakings. Expenses last year, in the ordinary
branch, were £l5 19s. Id. per cent, of premium income.-
Managing-director Garvan on this remarked—“ So soon.
as we reduce the expense rate of our ordinary branch to
10 per cent, (and we promise to do that within three
years), we shall have a rate more than 3 per cent, lower
than that of any other society.” If the Citizens’ can do .
this, while continuing to extend the business, and while
still further reducing the industrial expense rate (which is
also promised), it will be about the most sensational thing
yet done in Australian insurance management. The
promised saving of close upon 6 per cent., if made on .
last year’s expenses, would have meant nearly £12,000,
four-fifths of which would have been available to add to
policy-holders’ bonuses. (Under the articles Citizens’
shareholders, in return for guaranteeing that the expense--
rate shall not exceed 15 p.c., are entitled to one-fifth-
of the surplus, though this amount has not been wholly
collected.) The office has made notable progress during
the last few years ; its interest-earnings rate is increasing
rapidly, notwithstanding that it holds the largest
proportion of public securities of any large office
in Australasia ; i.s mortality experience has hitherto been
very low (last year it was 54 per cent, of the expected
experience in the ordinary and 52 per cent, in the
industrial branch) ; its valuation is on a 3 per cent, basis,
which is the most stringent adopted in Australia; and
when it adds the reduction of expense rate to which the
manager has pledged himself, it will cap a remarkable
record in the way of progress.
* * * *
“ Xerxes ” asks a question that happens along
every few weeks : “ A co. insures a building- against fire.
The building is burnt, without any suspicious circum-
stances ; yet, in most cases, the co. offers 10 to 20 per


Tramways for Mines.
CHEAP HAULAGE
often Means the Difference between
Dividends and Liquidation.
IP INTERESTED, write
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop., Ltd.,
64 PITT=ST., SYDNEY. Helbourne Office: 504 Little Collins-street.
A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
It is recognised that much of the loss in concen-
tration is due to the feeding at the same time of many
different sizes of ore particles, and while to a certain
extent the loss is obviated by the installation of hydraulic
classifiers, the constant addition of volume of water in the
various stages of elassification practically always entails a
heavy loss in fine mineral carried away in the overflow,
thus, though a more or less regularly graded product is
obtained, and the percentage of saving over the concen-
trators, calculated on the value of the material fed on to
them, has been increased, yet the aggregate loss has not
been diminished. The McDermott Sizer differs from other
classifiers from the fact that the separation into various
sizes is effected by means of a submerged screen. Careful
tests have proved there is an absolute freedom of movement
of the particles under water, and that the pulp can pass
in succession through a series of screens each finer than
the preceding, thus permitting effective separation into
sizes most admirably adapted for close concentration
work. The Austral Otis Engineering Company, of South
Melbourne, are the Agents and Sole Manufacturers of the
“ McDermott Sizer.”*
» * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discription of cast or wrought iron work.*
♦ "It if #
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange) for the latest informa*
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*
* * * *
Oil Engines.—lnformation has just reached
us that the Government Award (Gold Medal) in this class,
at the present Capetown Exhibition, has been awarded to
the “ Hornsby ” Oil Engine. The success of this engine is
perhaps the most remarkable in engineering history.
There is no engineering speciality which can claim, as
the “ Hornsby ” oil engine, does, to have obtained every
highest award in the world—viz., England, America,
Australian, France and Russia, &c.—and last year it
secured the British Government award of £lOOO. It is
made in various types of fixed, portable, traction and
marine, and in the latter it is made in suitable sizes for
small pleasure craft, and in gradations of h.p. up to 500
b.h.p., as supplied to the British Navy. R. Hornsby and
Sons, Ltd., Sydney and Melbourne.*
* * * *
The Babcock Boiler seems to be favored by
mining engineers, over 50 mines in Australia using these
boilers. Mount Morgan has 20, Waihi Gold Mining Co.
24, Mount Lyell 12, Tasmanian Gold Mining Company 7,
and at Broken Hill there are 30 distributed amongst the
mines, water works, and electric supply, while in
Western Australia they are looked upon as a necessity,
there being now 68 in the principal mines and Kalgoorlie
Water Supply. It will be noted that coal is expensive at
Broken Hill, and wood fuel is expensive at W.A. These
figures sp.eak for themselves. Evidently the ease of
transportation, the economy in fuel and maintenance and
the adaptability to any class of fuel, that are such con-
spicuous points in the Babcock Boiler, are much
appreciated in Australian mines. *^
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Assay Balance, Ainsworth’s No. 1 special, 5 inch
beam, agate knife edges and bearings etc., sensibility
l/200th =0.005 milligramme = l/13000th grain. Price £5O.
Large stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. H. B. SILBERBERG and Co., 443
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
• * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.^
Queensland Canning Co. had an unsatisfactory
winding up. Assets, when the co. decided that it
couldn’t go on any further, looked good for £7513 ; but,
after paying £1646 for material subsequently, only £4289
was realised. The ineffective Federal tariff had knocked
out the co.’s business, and made it impossible to find a
buyer for it as a going concern, and another effort to
form a new co. failed. The liquidator reported: “The
machinery and fittings had to be sacrificed at auction,
and generally the assets suffered through an entire
absence of a market in the manufacturing industry of
Queensland consequent upon the operations of Federa-
tion ” —the Federal tariff being all round lower than the
old Queensland tariff. So that’s why the capitalist won’t
invest.
“Quartz” : Gympie, N.Q., has a popular
publican who has never touched strong drink,
doesn’t smoke, has never taken medicine, and
never uses any condiment save salt.
OHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor Oil,
* Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, Shellac, “Sun
Brand’’ Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro-
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
Correspondence Invited.
HCY. MARKWALDi
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle,
Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, Christchurch.
cent less than the sum assured. Now, if I insure for
£lOO, and they take my premium for that amount
whv should they expect me to accept £BO or
£90?” An insurance co., though it issues a policy
for £lOO, doesn’t undertake to pay £lOO. its
policy is a “ contract of indemnity —the co. indemnifj -
ino* the insurer against loss up to the amount of the
policy. The valuation would be much more satisfactory
if it were made before the fire ; but that
valuing every risk, and would probably add 20 per cent,
on the average to the cost of insurance. The respectable
co. doesn’t, however, offer £BO when the insurer can prove
that his loss was £lOO or over ; when a co. does that it
isn’t respectable. An exception has to be made with re-
gard to large risks (usually those over £10,000) which are
subject to “ average ”; if an owner has £3°>ooo°f Pro-
perty and only £20,000 of insurance, and loses £5OOO, then
he is paid only two-thirds of £5OOO, on the ground that
he has carried one-third of his own insurance, and should
bear one-third of the loss. The fact that there were no
suspicious circumstances doesn’t, therefore, enter into the
question, except that, if arson is proved, the contract is
void.
* * * *
“ Bax ” : References (B. 16/3/’O5) to the compe-
tition of English mail-boats with Australian lines in
interstate trade, are hardly fair. Hnlf-n-century ago the
P. and O. Co. made Albany a coaling station—a boon to
Westralia, for this provided almost its only communication
with the Eastern States. Australian shipowners didn’t
concern themselves about the W.A. trade: it was only
after the gold discoveries that it really became worth
their attention. The mail co.’s have not competed
unfairly with local shipping ; passenger and cargo rates
between Australian ports have always been maintained at
a much higher figure by the former. Fifteen years ago
(or thereabouts) the Australian co.’s asked for a wider
margin between their fares and freights and those of the
mail co.’s. Australian superintendent Withers, of the
P. and 0., arranged a meeting of those interested.
On behalf of his own co., and with the Orient mana-
ger agreeing, he said they would willingly refuse cargo
between Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney, and that while
they could not refuse passenger traffic, they would raise
their fares to whatever figures the Australian co.’s might
consider would protect their interests ; and this was done.
What the present trouble is, I don’t know ; my con-
nection with shipping ceased some years ago. That
local shipping should be protected from the compe-
tition of foreign-owned boats, and that nigger-manned
vessels should be barred in all respects, would be good
for Australia ; but it must be owned that the mail com-
panies, in the absence of any compelling legislation (and
having regard to their opportunities), have acted towards
local shipowners with a rare consideration.
* * * *
North Coast S.N. Co. (N.S.W.) goes on buying
up rivals. Having silenced the powerful Allen Taylor
interest by amalgamation, the co. has proceeded to buy
up competitor after competitor, and, during March,
absorbed the steamers trading to Port Stephens and
Byron Bay, which operations extend the co.’s influence
from Newcastle to the border. The Port Stephens busi-
ness was a small affair, but the Nicoll line of steamers has
been in uninterrupted command of the Tweed River and
Byron Bay trade, and, to cope with its increasing volume,
had just built the Noorebar, one of the finest of the
purely coasting steamers. Managing director John See,
of the North Coast Co., who sees ruin in any proposal of
the State to interfere with private competition, seems,
nevertheless, to think so badly of private competition in
his own business that he is always striving to get rid of it.
... *
People who, a few months ago, were rushed
into some Broken Hill speculative stocks, had a gloomy
March. B.H. Prop, and Block 10 wobbled, British
and North moved up a little, South kept steady, but
Block 14 (ord.) tumbled in the month from 10s. 6d. to 3s.
6d., Junction North from 12s. to 65., Junction from 9s. 6d.
to 6s. 4d., and South Blocks from 6s. 3d. to 4s. 9d.
Junction North has probably been treated worst; it is a
stock which it isn’t safe to go to sleep with, yet there
was no call to jump to the conclusion that the new con-
centrating plant had failed. Even Block 10 mill, which
embodies no new principles, has taken months
to adjust ; and naturally the new magnetic plant
at Junction North will take longer. It is far
more likely that the plant will be a success (a moderate
success, anyway) than a rank failure. Its neighbor, the
Junction, is in a different position—it hasn’t got the ore
exposed. North has apparently moved up on the expec-
tation of an early div., and on a rumor that there was to
be buying on Bull account. Block 14’s sharp movement
of three or four months back was almost purely a market
flutter. The mine may turn out all right, and it will be
a great disappointment if it doesn’t ; but meantime lots
of unpleasant things may happen to present shareholders.
For one thing, mine will take a great amount of money to
equip, and present co. (already in 100,000 pref. shares and
and 100,000 con. shares) hasn’t either enough money or
calling power to establish even a coffee-mill.
Market valuations of principal Broken Hill
mines at the end of March :
Co. Shares. Price. Market Value.
B.H. Proprietary 960,000 41/6 £1,992,000
Sulphide (pref.) 550,000 20/-\ wn non
„ (ord.) 550,000 8/-J 770,000
South (paid) 121,038 49/- \
„ (con.) 78,962 43/-/ 466,311
British (old) 240,000 17/3 \ „ r , or „
„ (new) 60,000 15/9 /
Block 10 100,000 39/- 195,000
North 109,400 27/- 147,690
Junction 200,000 6/3 62,500
Block 14 (pref.) 100,000 7/6\ „ ™
„ (ord.) 100,000 4/-/ 5/,t>UU
Junction North 130,000 6/3 40,625
S. Blocks (paid) 100,000 5/- \ „„ -_ A
„ (con.) 100,000 -19 f " s >' ou
On these bulk prices, Block 14 would be the cheapest
mine to buy. That Block 14, which lies between the B.H.
Prop, and the British, should be valued at £57,500, only
about one-fifth of the price put upon the British, is
absurd—or, anyhow, should be absurd ; for what a mine
is worth to the investor depends upon the management
as well as upon the ore-bodies. British has a larger area
than Block 10, but its northern block has never been
much good to it and doesn’t seem to have any striking
chances ; apart from that, it is impossible to justify a
higher price for British than Block 10. In the matter of
divs., the latter can almost certainly beat the former,
though possibly Block 10’s end may come first. Sulphide
and South are neighbors, working the same bodies, and
the two mines differ very little—certainly the difference
does not anything like justify the vast difference in
price. On immediate dividend prospects, Sulphide seems
to be over-valued.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction has decided to use the
drill to search for ore. Bodies in this mine are very
irregular, and prospecting by the ordinary methods
costly, so drilling is specially suited to its needs.
* * * *
Latest 10 tons from the Barrier, Wyalong
(N.S.W.), treated at Cockle Creek, yielded 115 oz. A
property that should turn out well is the Welcome
Stranger, which, in the field’s first three years, yielded
£20,000 worth of gold. The reef was worked down to
150 ft., where a fault, or slide, threw the reef off its course.
Property' has been worked in a desultory fashion, but the
owners have now started to shake things up, and unwater
the old shaft to the 150 ft. preparatory to prospecting for
the lost shoot. At the claim adjoining to the north, the
Homeward Bound, good stone has been struck at 180 ft.
A strong Sydney syndicate owns this, and is developing
the show the right way'.
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) district seems to have
lost most of its friends. It is alleged now that the ore
shoots are short and narrow, and that everything depends
on future development. True, no doubt; but these were
practically the conditions before Baker’s Creek started to
pay its £272,500 in divs. Geological conditions haven’t
altered since then. The continuity and value of Smith’s
reef, which dips obliquely into New Hillgrove, are worth
a jugful of theory. Men who will put up enough money
to give old Baker’s Creek a trial at 1600 feet are the sort
Hillgrove wants—it deserves that much on its record.
Long Tunnel, Walhalla, tops every other show
in Vic. just now in point of mining interest. When it
started its incline shaft with £30,000 calls ahead, some
folk asked how long Pearson and Firebrace, descendants
of the original Long Tunnelites, would pay calls on their
combined 12,000 or 13,000 shares. Young Firebrace came
out three months back, and returned satisfied. Pearson,
M.L.C., never wavered in call-paying, recalling
how his father pledged his title-deeds to get
the mine going at its start. No one, however,
imagined (unless, perhaps, it was Anderson, the manager)
when the co. opened out at 2200 ft. to give the share-
holders heart, that a shoot of gold-bearing stone over
380 ft. long was away south. Directors originally never
looked for anything there, as they wanted the incline
shaft to work the north-west ground. Last crushing
from this south stone, owing to good gold near the break,
averaged about 17dwt., against 9dwt. for the previous
month’s run. Including fair allowance for development,
it gives quite £Booprofit. So it looks as if Noble’s mantle
of luck at the Extended was being- handed on to the old
claim. Co. has an overdraft, but if profits come like this
that will soon melt.
* * * *
Alexandra Reefs is a well-named show up
Alexandra way (Vic.), for it has a good many feminine
characteristics. It likes to put on fine clothes, and go on
the block. The shoot of stone proved is only 80ft. long
and 15in. wide, and there are but 80ft. of backs. Yet a
battery is wanted before it has been proved that there is
stone to keep one at work six months. And there is not
a bit of evidence that there is enough gold in the stone
that is available to pay for the mill.
Great Southern No. 1, Rutherglen (Vic.), looks
like petering out. The tributary lead on which hopes
were built has proved miserably poor. The main reef
drive is only 600 ft. from the boundary, though really
there is about 1250 ft. to block back. But it is doubtful
if the big block of the gutter opened up is payable.
Consequently, there is not much ahead to yield many
divs.
• • • •
The little bird that twittered about the Guiding
Star meeting, Ballarat, let out a nice secret. Bent said—
“No grant to sink the South Star shaft unless tribute-
drawing co.’s give up divs. until the £5OOO lent is repaid.”
Guiding Star Co. is the said tribute-gobbler, and did not
quite fall in with Bent’s common-sense condition. It is
therefore proposed that the South Star and the Star of
the East shall pay a sort of supervisory officer to repre-
sent Guiding Star interests. If such a step is taken it
means taxing the call-payers of the Star and the South
Star Co.’sin lieu of the tribute co.’s. All Ballarat is won-
dering who is to do the supervising. Is it to be Gilpin,
or Harry Goddard, or Henry Edwards ? If work is to be
the measure of reward, and that means going below, it’s
not hard to tell who will get the job.
* » * •
Some reasons why yieldsshould be fully reported,
with a special recommendation that the directors of
Birthday mine, Berringa (Vic.), should consider the
matter : Because a full statement is due from trustees to
those whose interest they represent; because non-publica-
tion of details may lead to unwarranted surmises ; because
wrong conclusions may be drawn respecting the state of
a mine where tonnage of stone treated is not given along
with the gold won ; because an opening is provided for
left-handed speculation ; and lastly because any reserva-
tion of facts is likely to prevent people from supporting
the industry when it wants aid.
* * * *
Blankeet No. 1 South, Mansfield (Vic.), after
spending £12,000 in prospecting, hired a “gold-diviner”
to walk over its property and feel if there were any gold
in it. The diviner lingered on the premises, then de-
clared confidently that he could “feel” gold all about,
but could not locate it very definitely, and advised the
co. to get down another 300 ft. and then call him in again.
He could not promise the directors a dead-sure thing
even when they had sunk another 300 ft., so the diviner
cannot be said to be much of an improvement on the old
piclt-and-shovel prospector. The latter can “feel” gold,
too, when he gets hold of it, and that seems to be all the
diviner can do with any amount of certainty. The shares
of the Blankeet No. 1 South are not booming. The pos-
sibility that the diviner was misled by the gold studs of
the directors seems to have damped the ardor of the
market.
* * * *
Divs. paid by W. A. mines for first quarter of year
amounted to £460,450 against £407,296 for same period
of 1904: —Great Fingall, £93,750 ; Oroya Brown Hill,
£90,000 ; Great Boulder, £65,625 ; Perseverance, £52,500 ;
Associated Northern, £52,500 ; Ivanhoe, £50,000 ; Hidden
Secret, £20,000; Black Range, £3375 ; Kalgurli, £15,000 ;
Golden Pole, £15,000 ; and Ida H., £2700.
* * * *
February returns of chief W.A. mines:—Fine
gold: Great Fingall, 13,6670 z.; Horseshoe, 13,1590 z. ;
Oroya Brown Hill, 12,6730 z. ; Ivanhoe, 96730 z. ; Per-
severance, 85120 z. ; Associated, 64410 z. ; Sons of Gwalia,
53000 z. ; Kalgurli, 38620 z. ; Associated Northern, 33730 z. ;
L. V. Consols, 33020 z. ; Cosmopolitan, 28500 z. ; Bellevue,
12250 z. ; Hainault, 13630 z. ; Lancefield, 14390 z. ; Boulder
Main Reef, 12500 z. ; Vivien, 7540 z. ; White Feather Main
Reef, 7340 z. ; North Kalgurli, 6430 z. ; Hannan’s Star,
5590 z. ; Hannan’s Reward, 2900 z. Bullion : Great Boul-
der, 11,5690 z. ; Golden Pole, 23700 z. : Princess Royal,
12S0oz. ; Mt. Morgans, 19930 z. ; North White Feather,
11690 z. : Golden Ridge, 9980 z. ; Ida H., 9330 z. ; Red Hill,
7470 z. : Queensland Menzies, 7550 z. ; Waihi, 7530 z. ; South
Gippsland, 281 oz. Fingall figures are same as previous
month. Declines are : Horseshoe, llOOoz. ; Oroya, 120 oz. ;
Ivanhoe, 700 oz.; Associated, 7500 z. ;L. V. Consols, 400 oz. ;
Associated Northern, 600 oz. ; East Murchison United,
200 oz. ; Bellevue, 210 oz. ; Vivien, 130 oz. ; Princess Royal,
2200 z. ; Red Hill, 60oz. Increases are : Boulder Main Reef,
12500 z. (final general clean up) ; Boulder, 600 oz. ; Mt.
Morgans, 5500 z. ; Golden Pole, 5500 z. ; Golden Ridge,
llOoz.
* 4 * *
Golden Horseshoe (Kalgoorlie) directors prac-
tically admit that the rich smelting ore, which has
hitherto produced nearly two-thirds of the monthly
returns, is almost used up, and in future mill will treat
18,000 tons monthly of an average of about 18dwt., and
give a profit of £22,500. This should give far more
confidence to shareholders, who recollect what happened
after the petering-out of the rich patches on the Per-
severance, Lake View, Associated, and other mines. Five
lodes are being worked in the mine, and, as ore reserves
are estimated to be four years ahead of mill, concern is
about as sound as a gold-mining investment can be.
Divs. are said to be assured on same scale as last year,
but a profit of £22,500 monthly means only £270,000,
which leaves no margin at all over last year’s. Any rich
patches that may be found will, of course, increase
profits.
* * * »
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), held a success-
ful meeting in Kalgoorlie on March 16. Explanations
were given both by chairman Gibson and Manager
Harper regarding the suspension of works below third
level, but they were not regarded as altogether satis-
factory. Manager Harper’s explanation was that it was
useless starting a crosscut till a winze was down, and he
did not want to bail out shaft, as a temporary breakdown
might take place in Government water supply, and leave
him on his own resources. What causes anxiety is that
all mines in the adjoining districts have petered out at or
above 400 feet; for instance, Mt. Callion, Mulwarrie,
Lady Shenton, Menzies Alpha, Queensland Menzies, &c.
Co. has 15 months’ supply of ore in reserve worth 2oz. ;
but, though satisfactory, this is not enough. Financially
co. is in a strong position, and will in future pay fid. per
share, or £7500 a month divs., first on April 10th. Were
the position of fourth level assured, investors would have
more confidence. 31,500 and 16,000 shares have been
transferred to the Adelaide and London registers re-
spectively, which shows original holders have got rid of
one-fourth their holdings at a good profit.
* * * *
Cumberland, Norseman (W.A.), in declaring its
first div. of 6d., or £2OOO, promises to continue them. At
No. 1 level over 670 ft. has been driven east and west, the
reef running from Ift. to 2£ft., and from a few dwt. to
over an ounce per ton. The last few crushings have run
from 700 to 7500 z., and averaged about 25dwt. fine gold.
This should show a profit of £2OOO a month, taking costs
at £2 a ton. The fly in the ointment is that No. 2 level
has been driven 240 ft. east, and has found no reef. No. 3
level has been extended 230 ft. ; the east drive is in
stringers, while the west is worth 17dwt. for 2ft. wide.
Apparently the shoot of stone dips west. Those in the
know seem to have very little faith in the concern, and
this is not to be wondered at, seeing that only 500 tons
are treated monthly, although mine is equipped with a
20-head mill capable of treating at least two to three
times that quantity.
* » * *
Princess Royal Central, Norseman (W.A.), has
cut the reef after sinking 938 ft. As co. will have to sink
a long way yet before any ore will be opened up, the Is.
6d. still outstanding to make contributing shares up to
10s. is pretty sure to be called up. Thereafter both
classes of shares will rank equally ; the £50,000 then out-
standing should be more than sufficient to fully equip the
mine, if it is found to be worth equipping. The shaft on
this mine has been sunk at the rate of 80ft. a month,
which says something for manager Henderson’s energy,
and the working miners’ capabilities.
* * * •
Associated Northern, Kalgoorlie, recently cut a
vein of telluride at 180 ft. in a prospecting shaft sunk on
the extreme west of lease. This shaft was started when
Paringa, some time ago, cut a telluride vein, but, like all
ore bodies in Paringa, the vein proved very small and
short. Little attention need be paid to this discovery
till prospecting proves it to be of some permanent value,
which it is very unlikely to do. Mine continues to look
well, and plant is running satisfactorily, but two or three
years will see present ore body depleted.
* * * *
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, continues to give
marvellous results. Last two parcels treated yielded as
follows :—23 tons for 4020 z. gold and 17710 z. silver, and 21
tons for 9760 z. gold and 50400 z. silver. This brings up
total since Oct. to 298 tons for 54670 z. gold and 27,5020 z.
silver, worth £25,000. A second div. of £l2 10s. a share,
or £lO,OOO, has been paid.
* * * *
Anticipatory buying of Mount Lyell scrip in
London a month back led to cables being sent out asking
what was up. Well, it’s easy to answer to-day. 00. has
had a “ bonzer ” half-year, with copper at high rates.
It, therefore, will put out a prime balance-sheet. Next,
it has got on to ore at the 700 ft. level of the North Lyell
in two places, so there is not such a chance of exhausting
the good ore there as looked possible six months back.
Thirdly, it has been opening up some first-rate stuff in
the Lyell Tharsis ; and lastly, brethren, it has hopes of
good times with its sulphuric acid-manure plant on the
banks of the Yarra. These items look well on the news-
bill. But they do not make up 17s. in divs. by a long
chalk. And that’s the one little fact the investor cannot
ignore.
* * * *
Crown Lyell (Tas.) directors, following repeated
advice, have closed down. The next reform is to stop
board fees and high salaries to officials. The ructions
over reform in this direction constitute one of the nicest
little bits of tittle-tattle heard in Oollins-street of late.
* * * *
Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) to date out of tin mining
has paid £1,981,500 in divs., or £165 2s. 6d. per share.
There is some talk about the co. treating its pyrites, but
that is not so easy a job as it looks.
* * * *
Charters Towers again ! Carrington’s Lion
Excess Ground Mining Co. offers 8 acres, but only 460 x
400 ft. is on the line of reef. The rest is for the public to
browse upon. Capital £25,000, in 100,000 shares at ss.
Prospectors receive £3OO and 2000 paid-ups ; promoters
get £lOOO out of application and allotment moneys and
34,000 paid-up shares. £15,000 is to be supplied by con-
tributing holders, while £9500 goes in shares and cash to
promoters—Heaven knows what for. Promoters of
M‘Coll’sP.o. presented themselves with the whole of the
20,000 paid-ups ; £2OOO cash went to M‘Coll, the vendor.
Application and allotment money brought in £2500.
Seemingly it took the £5OO to float the show. If not, why
a penny call when 60 tons of alleged 6oz. stuff was going
through ? And why dwell on the 6oz. crushing when the
previous parcel of 5 tons went far less than that ?
Phcebe, Charters Towers (N.Q.), for seven
weeks, 1475 tons, 1810 oz. Concentrates and residues
bring the value to £6 10s. a ton. Output is about 600 tons
per month, but it cannot be maintained at that pace for
long. Costs of treatment are a secret. The mine crushes
at a battery that is controlled by the mine managers. Co.
has a credit balance of £7OOO. A dividend can be declared
when the directors please.
* * * *
Queen Central, Charters Towers, 575 tons for
5750 z. ; concentrates, £6BB. Beef averages 6in. where it
can be found. Uncalled capital of the co. stands at about
£l2OO. Mine is not developed; yet directors declare a
dividend of 3d. A call will most likely come soon.
* * * *
Carrington and party’s Lion P. 0., 30 miles
from Charters Towers, has crushed 26 tons of picked
stone for lloz. 13dwt. a ton. Sales of residues will bring
the value to £5O a ton. Gold is worth £3 19s. 6d. per oz.
This is no criterion of what will follow, as it was surface
stone, and no sinking has been done. Crushing was held
by the prospectors until a co. was formed. But there is
no boom so far—buyers 2s. Some assays give 18 to 23 p.c.
copper, 13dwt. gold. About 100 men are on the field, on
stone or trenching for it. A new reef, the Lone Hand,
has been discovered four miles further out. Still it is not
advisable for miners to travel in order to rush the spot,
although it looks promising. Carting and crushing will
take 30s. a ton, and all likely ground has been pegged.
* * * *
Brilliant Central, Charters Towers : 1190 tons
for 5500 z. A trial crushing of 51 tons from Marshall’s
side gave 720 z. Marshall’s qjueen is looking better. The
new underlie has 2ft. 6in. of stone in the sink. Brilliant
Block reports “ The underlie has cut two whiteleaaers.
The winze is making water. A party has started to run
the stulls. Have put 21 rivets in the drum flange. Have
oiled the rope, it is wearing fast.” Not a word about
sharpening a drill or mending a wheelbarrow ! Queen
Cross : 1000 tons, 16230 z. ; concentrates and residues,
£1359 Tonnage is easing, but shares are two shillings
better than three weeks ago. Bonnie Dundee is knocking
the cobwebs off the engine. McColl’s Just-in-Time P.C.,
60 tons for 350 z. A big drop from 6oz. stuff ; still it
should pay. Stone is sft. thick in the sink, and easy to
work. Show should turn out 100 tons a month while it
lasts. Crushing and carting take 19s. 6d. Couch, Rowe
and party (No. 1 on McOoll’s) gave a return of 16dvvt. a
ton. Stone came from 25ft. of sinking. Gold could be
seen in the surface stone, but does not seem to live down
in quantity. #
Vulcan, Irvinebank (N.Q.), which takes second
place among the Commonwealth’s tin mines, paid £ll,OOO
last half-year, and looks good for 10s. a year on its 44,000
shares for some years, unless the tricky tin market inter-
feres. Thq pipe is irregular, but has been followed down
to 900 ft., where it has been cut lately, though size and
value there have not yet been determined. This will be
the deepest tin-working in Australia.
“M.A.C.”: In “Wild Cat” (16/3/’O5) is
a report about Gilgunnia. People here are sur-
prised to learn that this field is young and grow-
ing. Gilgunnia rush was in February or March,
1895, therefore is 10 years old, and is certainly growing
year .by year —smaller. Her Dream, the boss mine, has
had crushings up to over 200 tons, a good few from 100 to
150 tons with varying results from about lOdwt. to over
7oz. per ton battery treatment. The other mines have
had only small crushings, as they are in the prospecting
stages and only work with two men. The ores have never
been picked in any mine. What Gilgunnia wants is
capital, and unless that is forthcoming it will be as dead
as Julius Caesar before very long.
* * * *
A letter and some prophecies from London :
Without a sinking fund, what becomes of Australia’s per-
manent and reproductive undertakings (such as are not
gaols and asylums)? Wired telesrraphy is nearing its end
as a system ; the Marconi telegraph can now work up to
24 words a minute, and has been improved to the extent
of making messages between America and England re-
munerative at half the tariff of the cable companies. Old
established steam railway systems, even in conservative
England, are being electrified ; and even electrified rail-
way systems are being beaten by auto-car services,
British Postmaster-General has this week let a contract
for a motor mail service between London and Brighton—
quicker than railway’ mails, and obviating the two hand-
lings at railway stations. The bettering of roads for
wheels means that horse service will soon be obsolete ;
the cheapening of Marconi telegrams means that
the cable companies will be sent to the wall
within 10 years; the electrification of railways
means that not only will present-day locomotives
be widely, disused, but that even present-day pas-
senger rolling-stock will be made useless by the sub-
stitution of single cars running at frequent intervals. In
the Prussian experiments at Zossen an electric tram
travelled at 120 miles an hour ; there are £60,000,000 in-
vested in England in tramways which carry passengers at
eight miles an hour, and have been put out of date by
motor ’busses that can dodge in and out among the traffic
and travel at 20 miles an hour! The London County
Council’s trams cost £26,000 a mile for permanent way,
and along comes the trackless car to convert that alleged
asset into mere ink-marks on paper. And meantime there
is wrangling at Hobart with George Turner for the. reten-
tion of the “ State right ” to borrow more millions on old
iron and galvanised wire and the alleged “ national
resources.” It will not be long before Cohen refuses
point blank. He has sixty millions “ worth ”of his own
old iron.
* * * «
“ J.8.C.” : Recently reported discovery of gold
in Scotland isn’t the first by a good bit. In 1867 or 1868, was
returning from England in one of Money Wigram and Co.’s
liners; and two young Scotch-Australians named McKay
were fellow-passengers. They had formerly been success-
ful miners at Ballarat, but, hearing that rich alluvial had
been found in Sutherlandshire, they went there, and
obtained “ miner’s rights ” from the Duke (of Sutherland).
They had obtained about 200 oz. when the Duke, finding
his deer forests being destroyed by the mining operations,
closed the field. They offered their gold for sale in Lon-
don, but were only offered £3 15s. per oz. for it; so they
brought it out to Victoria with them, and sold it in
Melbourne for £4 2s. per oz. as Ballarat gold. Alexander
McKay’s “miner’s right,” issued by the Duke of Suther-
land, was exhibited in a hotel in Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne, for years, and may be there yet.
* * » »
Joint Stock Co.’s Journal, (London) July 20,
1904, writes of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited : It is procuring a large amount of good and
permanent business. It annually adds largely to its
accumulated funds, upon which a return is secured
sufficiently great to provide a handsome margin of profit.
Its prospects are admirable.


“Orisi)t to WsasGrc” Tailoriog.
SAC SUITS
NEW AUTUMN and WINTER PATTERNS,
now opened, will be forwarded with Self -
Measurement Forms upon Application ,
DAVID JONES & CO
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney.
BEFORE PURCHASING A . . .
CAMERA
08 Photo. Supplies
Obtain Particulars and Prices from
Harrington
AND CO.,
LIMITED
Photographic Merchants,
386 CEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
Few Doors from G.P.O.
AND 93 QUEEN ST..
BRISBANE.
Our Stock of Cameras, Photo. Materials, Accessories and
Novelties is unquestionably the largest and best in the
Southern Hemisphere. Everything right up to date.
DROP US A LINE stating about what sum you are prepared to expend on a Photographic
Outfit, and whether you require a Camera for General Purposes or jus
for a voyage or other special purposes.
We will submit Illustrations of Cameras which we recommend
together with Prices and Fullest Information FREE.
SOCIETY
CANADIAN
CLUB
WHISKY.
By good fortune the shameful state of
many of Melbourne’s older factories was brought
beforethe citizens last week whenlfigirls worldngon
the third story of a city warehouse found the stairs
suddenly wrapped in a mass of flame and their
sole way of escape cut off. They were just in
time to get to the second floor and escape by
jumping into blankets and tarpaulins. The trouble
is that responsibility lies between four different
bodies —City Council, Fire Brigade, Health and
Factories departments—and nobody knows
“ where he are.” The excuse for the want of an
outside iron stair-case has been offered that to
erect these on all existing factories would cost too
much —which is an excuse that would probably
have been given nowhere but in Melbourne, and
is characteristic of that city. The fact is that
there is scarcely a factory in Melbourne, or indeed
in Australia, that will compare with the least up-
to-date workshop in America, where as the
Mosely Commission set forth, the health, lives and
comfort of the inmates are studied almost as much
as they are in a hospital. But of course the
American manufacturer has ample Protection and
cannot plead the excuse of cheap foreign competi-
tion for not giving his hands also protection.
* • * *
The fire in the white-work factory, Flin-
ders Lane, Melbourne, the other evening, served
to demonstrate the sex’s ability to control its
hysterical symptoms when real danger threatens.
In no case did a girl “ give way ” till she was well
out of danger, and one little darling was so cool
when safely conveyed down the ladder that she
casually requested her rescuer to be so kind as to
go back for her hat. This when the flames were
beginning to show through the window ! But
then it was a new hat. The fire made another
fact plain to the common understanding, and that
is, that the ordinary costume of the female of our
time is not designed to assist her in escaping from
a fire. Coming down the ladder, the first girl’s
skirt trailed up on the rung, and the second girl
stood on it; a third girl got on the second girl’s
skirt, and then there was a deadlock. Neither is
the skirt a suitable garment to wear in jumping
from heights, although its ballooning propensities
may have served to let the girls down lightly
when they jumped for the sheet. One very
cautious damsel lingered on the window-sill to
secure her dress between the ankles with a safety-
pin. The cheers that greeted the preceding jum-
pers were withheld in her case.
A JOB'S COMFORTER.
“I can never forgive myself for marrying this man.”
“ Don't blame yourself too much—it was probably as much his fault as yours.”
The Australian youngster fails to get any-
thing like the amount of parental larruping that
his contemporary in Europe “enjoys.” It’s partly
the free and easy character of the parent that’s
responsible, partly the “open air” climate which
makes it almost always possible for young Hopeful
to keep away from home until the parental wrath
has evaporated. Lacking a proper amount of
larruping, he needs a good deal more police
watching than the gamins of other countries,
For children are, by nature, tormentive—
not so much from cruelty as from thought-
lessness and ignorance of what hurts. Not
so long ago in a Sydney suburb an old
German cut his throat because the young larrikins
of his district made life a burden (the police don’t
seem to have thought seriously of checking them).
Now, in Sydney, an old woman has tried hard to
kill herself as the only way to escape the annoy-
ances of youngsters. Some weeks ago the poor old
creature was caught up in a sudden storm-flood
and swept along an open sewer. This gave spur
to the ribald wits of the young, and their insults
made life seem to her too hard to bear. In the
old days—so ’tis said—bears from the woods would
protect the old from infantile insolence. The
Australian koala is much too merciful and gentle
a beast to take up such work. So the police really
ought to be instructed to suppress what is becom-
ing an intolerable nuisance. There’s no need for
arrests. An occasional cuff and a frequent strict
warning to parents would do all that is needed.
* # V *
Vie. A.N.A. was asked by one delegate at
its conference to abolish strong drink from its
social functions- It declined with enthusiasm.
Anyone familiar with In-A.N. A.-ty oratory will
appreciate the humanity of this refusal. A.N.A.
speeches without whisky would be intolerable—
unless chloroform were substituted.
* * * •
Gov. -General North cote’s wholesale im-
porting of foreign goods duty-free seems a
peculiarly scandalous exercise of vice-regal privi-
lege, when is remembered the notorious incident of
Lady Loch’s diamond necklace. The lately-
deceased Bingy Benjamin, when Mayor of Mel-
bourne, raised a subscription for the purchase of a
diamond necklace, to be presented to the local
Governor’s wife. £lOOO or more was collected,
and the order for the bauble was placed in
London, the grovellers reckoning they could get it
through the Customs as a “National loyal
tribute,” or something to that effect. All the
same, the necklace was detained by the Customs
officers, and, after serving as a nine-days joke in
the newspapers, it was released by Bingy on his
personal payment of the duty charged—some hun-
dreds of pounds. In a small degree, the necklace
imported by the Mayor of Melbourne and his
co-subscribers was a State presentation to the
vice-regal person. ‘ 1 All classes of the community ”
were represented in the matter, though the boss
grovel class, of course, put up most of the money.
Yet the public, as represented by the Mayor, had
to pay ordinary import duty on foreign jewellery
bought for the Governor’s wife. Is the spirit of
Federation a new grovelsome spirit, that under
its influence all the goods imported for Lord
Northcote are exempt from duty ? What is Lord
N. to Australia that the Government should place
him above the Tariff law ? Regarding him as some-
thing lower than the angels, no ordinary, sordid-
minded citizen can blame him very much for
importing his goods in his own name if he thinks
he can get them cheaper than by employing an
Australian agent. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment invites the gentleman to put his preposterous
privilege into practice. King Edward buys his
goods from local shopkeepers, or imports them
through local agents ; but then King Ned regals
in his own country. Northcote is but a stranger
and sojourner in the land where he vice-regals.
“F.”: Figures are always being published
with a note of alarm stating that a large per-
centage of the first-born children in this country
have been conceived out of, though born'in, wed-
lock. From the point of view of conventional
morality that is, of course, regrettable; still, it
must be admitted that there is something to be
said on the other side. The parents of such chil-
dren must certainly have strong, if unruly, affection
for one another ; and the father must be a “ good
sort,” else there would be no marriage.
FINANCIAL.
S HE: “ What is life without the one we love? A cheap thing ?”
HER: “Wo, dear, a much dearer thing. You forget that a husband pays all the hills.”
N.S.W. Chief Secretary Hogue, lecturing
on Socialism: —
Let men understand that they were working merely for
others, and the world, as far as human progress was con-
cerned, would stand still and speedily revert to the bar-
baric stage.
Which is just the opposite of truth. Altruism
has been the father of progress. The first male
ape who recognised a duty to his family founded
modern civilisation.
* * •
The P. and O. Co. has fre-
quently, of late, denied the cheap-
ness of the Lascar, alleging as its
sole reason for employing him the
unreliability of the‘white stoker.
Yet, except at his native ports,
the Lascar is a persistent deserter.
The P. and 0. Co. is said to have
welcomed the Australian Immigra-
tion Restriction Act, secretly but
whole-heartedly, as an aid to keep-
ing its colored crews intact. The
Lascar is welcomed by the P. and
0. because its nabob passengers
like to see something black and
servile about the ship : that seems to be, at any
rate, the chief reason.
• * • »
The Papuan Industries Company, Limited,
informs the Federal authorities that it is to under-
take “ missionary work and mercantile enter-
prise.” “Samee gamee”:
The missioner, with Bible big,
Goes forth to islands far and dim
To save the poor benighted nig.,
And make a customer of him.
On the ever-recurring subject of the small
baby killed by unsuitable food, Melb. coroner Cole
opined that “no blame attaches to either of the
nurses, unless one can blame people for not know-
ing exactly what to do.” Just so. But in other
matters the Law doesn’t hold ignorance on the
part of those who voluntarily undertake a respon-
sibility to be either excuse or defence. Why in
this ? And, if ignorance is really invincible, why
doesn’t the State provide places where foundling
babies can be reared by those who do know what
to do?
THE AUSTRALIAN WASHINGTON.
“ Boo-hoo-hoo! I didn't do it, father! I wont
do it again.”
It is very hard to impress youth with the
idea spiritual. In a Melbourne suburban school,
recently, a lesson was being given in the Scrip-
tures. The subject was the Redeemer meeting
the woman of Samaria at the well. “Now what
do you think the woman wanted to do when she
found herself so kindly treated ? ” One boy,
promptly : “ She wanted to marry Him ! ”
THE WAY OF A MAN WITH A BABE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Mammy’s gone, my little dear—
Up-a-day, my beauty !
What is it you’ve got to fear ?
Mammy’s gone, my little dear.”
So he sang a coon song clear,
Doing well his duty.
“ Mammy’s gone, my little dear;
Up-a-day, my beauty !
“ Mammy’s coming, little one ;
Won’t you stop your crying ?
You shall have the golden sun
Mammy’s coming, little one.
See ! the stars all fall for fun
Whilst your eyes I’m drying.
Mammy’s coming, little one ;
Won’t you stop your crying ?
“ Tis n’t mammy after all;
Stop, you little bawler !
Do you think the sun will call—
’Tis n’t mammy after all —
Or the stars begin to fall
For a fretful squaller !
'Tis n’t mammy after all;
Stop I you little bawler ! ”
VIC.
M.W.


SHORTHAND
Successfully
taught by Mail by
the largest and
most highly
diplomaed staff of shorthand instructors in Australasia.
FEES MODERATE. INSTRUCTION INDIVIDUAL.
PROFICIENCY GUARANTEED.
“ Home Study ” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S Business College,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
JAIMES R. LAWSOH & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128-130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
The changeable Autumn weather is already
beginning to introduce coughs and colds to
thousands of suffering citizens. It is wise to
oppose the inroads of these enemies to health and
efficiency early, in order to avoid permanent winter
colds. Por this purpose there is nothing so effective
as that well proven remedy, Arnold’s Balsam, which
speedily cures catarrh, sore throats, chest com-
plaints, etc. Obtainable all chemists and store-
keepers throughout the States.*
THE BEST IN THE WORLD
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KIKTG STREET,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date In the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
Fate gave Bung, in N.S.W., a fine help, at
a time when it was needed, in the Bayswater
Hotel case last week. Charles Duval’s father was
suddenly taken ill on a Sunday, and the son went
out in search of brandy (no doubt about the facts,
which are warranted by the medical man called
in). From Sers, licensee of the Bayswater Hotel,
he had secured a small bottle of brandy, when a
sergeant of police interfered. Duval explained
the facts, and with the police went to his sick
father’s house. Then Duval begged for some of
the brandy (which the policeman had taken charge
of) for the use of his father, and was refused. But
the kindly daughter of the publican, hearing of
what had happened, brought some of the “ water
of life” to the Duvals’ house as a gift, and thereby,
mayhap, saved a life. With full knowledge of the
facts a magistrate fined the publican ! The law
throughout acted as a barbarian, and if that’s what
“effective Sunday closing” means, sensible people
will be inclined to join in the agitation for Sunday
opening. # .
Transpires that the Australian life insur-
ance offices have a system of confidential reports
in regard to rejected, deferred, or loaded “ cases.”
If Brown puts up for £lOOO to the Patriotic, and
is refused because of a lump in his lung, or loaded
because of a fault in his family history, the fact is
at once passed round, in strict confidence, to the
other life insurance offices, so that they may be on
their guard should Brown want to do business
with them. The money-lending establishments
have the same system of keeping track of clients,
and the Sydney tailors have decided also to
exchange “black lists.” Soon there won’t be
such a thing as confidence in Sydney, and the man
who wants to live on the gullibility of other people
will have to migrate elsewhere to spread the tid-
ngs of “ the evils of socialistic legislation.”
HIS COMPLAINT.
DOCTOR : “ Well, what's your trouble?”
PATIENT: “Pains in the stummiclc, sir.”
DOCTOR: “Before or after eating?”
PATIENT (beaming): “ Oh, before, sir.”
Dean Parkyn, of Ballarat (Vic.), has been
begging in England for an Anglican cathedral
fund, and complains of the poor results :
The disappointment has come, as it always does, from
the rich. One lady told me quite pathetically that,
having just bought a new motor and hunters for her
daughters, she was quite incapable of contributing more
than £l. I think that such persons deserve all the
sympathy which the clergy can give them !
But why on earth should this begging Dean expect
money from the English folk —rich or poor ? "What
has a Ballarat cathedral to do with them? For
the sake of Australian self-respect. The Bulletin
would be glad to see sturdy begging bishops and
dunning deans from Australia treated in England
as common mendicants, and warned off the
streets.
The Petriana perjury and the Six Hatters
hoax have proved so useful to Eatman that he is
now making a boom in fakes of the. same kind.;
and a present prominent “plank” in the Anti-
Labor Platform is “ The Sanctity of the Home ’
—based, of course, on the “Destruction of the
Marriage-tie involved in Labor Politics,” One
National She-Ass branch makes much of this
“plank.” Occasionally it meets with unexpected
success, as recently at a meeting when a touch-
ing picture of the de-sanctified home moved
to tears several Mrs. Fats, one of whom
was the sanctity of a prominent Fatman’s
home; and her lord, as some there knew, had
two other little homes, in neither of which was
there enough sanctity to restrain the festive youths
of the neighborhood from dropping bricks on the
roof when they suspected Fat was within.
• * * *
Those Sydney stipendiaries added little to
their dignity who, the other day, played ping-
pong with an outcast woman. One stipendiary
fined the female for language, and she, according,
to a common (and bad) custom, informed his
Worship what she thought of him. For this he
sent her to another stipendiary in the next
court. He fined her again, whereupon she
told him what she thought of him. He, carry-
ing the game on, sent the drabbled wretch
back to the first. Again she was fined, and
forthwith she renewed her attack on him.
The fines now totalled £l2, and as everyone but
the outcast was tired of the game, she was run
down to the cells : and that ought to have been
done at the first.
Melbourne Age seems to have solved the
semi-matrimonial advt. difficulty by putting it in
the “Business and Partnership” column, thus:—
T> ESPEOTABLE gentleman wants Lady Partner,
with small capital, take country, suburban hotel.
Particulars, Acrasia, P. 0., Ballarat.
They say
now in Bris-
bane that this
is the truth
about Mrs.
Tozer’snmid:
The maid was
engaged to be
married be-
fore she left
England, and
the young
man raised an
objection t o
her visiting
Australia.
Her parents
also scented
danger. Mrs.
Tozer, how-
ever, did not
want to lose
her, so she un-
dertook with
Mr. Tozer
that the
maid should
be looked
after and
brought back
to the Cold
Country. On
the road out
she fell in love
with an officer
on the steam-
er. Mr. Tozer
had to keep
his promise,
and the Alien
Restriction
Act served as a
means* The maid goes
back with her mistress on the Miltiades.
The case of Quan Yik, Chinaman, who has
spent most of the last 12 months jog-trotting from
one court to another for a decision as to whether
he did or did not break a certain Act of George IY.,
lias been distanced by another just decided in the
Equity Court. The official assignee, who figured
largely in the case, was flattened out by the Judge,
who reminded him that he had made large rents
in an Act passed by Henry VIII. Indeed, the
Judge remarked, in astern tone, that if the matter
had come to the ears of Henry VIII. dreadful
consequences would have ensued. To be a good
lawyer you seem to need to be a bit of an
archaeologist.
* 4 * 4
The Daily Telegraph, generally so self-
satisfied over its astuteness, had its leg badly
pulled over a discussion in its columns about the
derivation of the word “Katoomba.” The enter-
prising correspondents who aired ideas as to the
origin of the name created, for the purpose of
bolstering up their arguments, tribes of aboriginals
unknown in history, and species of birds unheard
of in science. The Telegraph unsuspectingly
published the theories put forward in its most
prominent column. Some of the letters were in-
geniously strung together, but the theories gradu-
ally grew more extraordinary until at last the
paper “tumbled” when a letter came which
said that Katoomba meant “20 minutes,” and
was so-called because that was the period required
by the native to fill his hat at the locality’s scanty
waterfall !
“ Gent One ” tells :
Some country people have curious notions
about dissolution of marriage. A man and
woman came to me, the other day, and
having manoeuvred me into my pri-
vate office for secrecy, told me
they had come for a divorce.
I tried to explain that the
knot couldn’t be cut
as summarily as all
that, and suggested
a deed of separation.
The wife indignantly
rejected this, saying
she’d have nothing
to do with anything
which would place
any restriction on
her fancy. Hubby
then took up the
running and cross-
examined his wife
severely about her
past conduct, fran-
tically requesting me
all the time to take
down her replies.
When I could get a
word in I told them
to come in again
some other time,
separately. They
left growling about
the inadequacy of
the law, but came
back separately,
each to apologise
for the other, “who
was drun k.’’
Neither of them, by
the way, was sober
enough to pay me
anything.
* *
On a day
lately, in the
Christchurch
(M.L.) court, the
father of a eohen-
tingenter charged
with robbery was
asked, “Can you
give any reason for
the thefts of which
your son is accused ? ”
“Nothing,” was the re-
ply, “except South Africa 1”
There is some analogy between Justice
Hodges’ foolish contention regarding the power
of the High Court and that of some N.S.W.
lawyers regarding the power granted by the
N.S.W. Constitution Act in capital cases. Those
lawyers, of whom Mr. Julian Salomons was
chief, argued that the individual had the right to
appeal to the King-in-Council in capital cases,
and that, though the Constitution Act made
N.S.W. autonomous, it did not, and could not,
cancel that right. The upshot, after a wrangle
which saved the neck of one criminal (Bertrand),
was that the N.S.W. Constitution Act was pro-
nounced supreme, and that in capital cases there
was no appeal to the P.C.
Courts fining adulterators should take
into account as far as possible the profits
made by the adulteration. Dr. Armstrong,
Sydney Health Officer, points out that if a
milk supplier, distributing 1000 gallons of
milk a day, adds 10 per cent, of water he
will make £6OO per annum clear on the sale
of the water. When such a vendor is brought
before the court, and the offence proved, the
magistrate usually inflicts a fine of 205., or,
perhaps, 40s. It is plain that such a fine in
no way deters. A baker is fined if his loaves
are light, not for one loaf, but for all the
light loaves on his premises, and some rule
should be applied to the milk vendor whereby
not one gallon of his 10 per cent, watered
milk, but all the gallons, should come under
fine.
• * * *
If Sydney City Council intends to
spend £2OOO during this year on the public
parks, it should begin by clearing away the
stones, bricks, road-metal, glass bottles, tins,
red clay and other rubbish lately spread over
them by way of top-dressing.
» » * *
Sydney would be greatly improved
should the City Council adopt the Parisian
and American custom and throw down all
the ugly iron railings which surround the
public parks. This has already been done at
the Green Park, Darlinghurst, whose massiye
stone gate-pillars now look like twin
Druidical monuments. It will also be
done at Belmore Park, which will only be
protected by a three-inch stone kerb—when
the railway-station is finished. The reform
should be made general.
* * * *
According to a correspondent in the
Daily Mail, the “poor old mother coun-
try” must in future lean on Japan to live :
The British people must either adopt universal service
or as the only alternative, form a new alliance with
Japan, the terms of which would be the absolute
guarantee bv either Power of the territories of the other,
as determined at the close of the present war coupled
with a strict military understanding stating the forces
which each power is to put into the field. It se.'ms
probable that Japan would demand a quid pro quo for
her complacence.
A cheerful prospect! Britain must either accept
conscription (which it seems to lack the national
nerve to do) or become a sort, of vassal State to
Japan, relying on that Asiatic State to protect
her Indian possessions.
• * *
Royalty nowadays lives by stage manage-
ment. All the lights in the House of Lords were
turned down when King Ned went to open Parlia-
ment recently. As the star actor in the farce
entered the Chamber, full pressure was put on at
the meter, and all basked in the glow of Royalty.
TOUJOURS PERDRIX.
B ILL: “ Are you coming to the Amateur Fisher-
men’s smoke concert to-night!”
JIM: “Not me! I had smoked trumpeter for
breakfast this mornin'."
Yic. Police Commissioner O’Callaghan has
done the right thing in prohibiting the police
from selling tickets for charity carnivals. This
sale-of-ticket game has been a perfect curse to the
backblocks constable in the past. He is for-
warded a bunch of pasteboards, and, feeling under
an obligation to dispose of them, has either to
waylay individuals who may be his prisoners next
week, or take the lot himself. In some cases, ’tis
said, the latter practice has been followed, the police-
man paying 10s. or 15s. out of his own pocket
rather than put himself in an equivocal position.
Bishop Clarke solemnly reminds those
taking part in the disputation re the shortening
of sermons that we go to church not to please our-
selves, but to please God. But why should it be
assumed that the Almighty loves long sermons?
CONTENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The undertaker of Advancement, I;
Lo ! In my hands a subtle, winding sheet
To fold the soaring hearts in—whom defeat
Has plunged in momentary misery.
“ Friends ’’—those I question—" wherefore vainly try
To win the unattainable ? Why beat
Your waning life out on the marble feet
Of Silence, Man’s immortal enemy ? ”
And some there are, who answer with a frown
Of noble anger: “ Rather any fate
Than turn ignobly from th’ appointed task,
In smug Self-satisfaction’s smiles to bask ! ”
But countless are my victims, who go down
Soul-poisoned to their doom, degenerate.
AMBROSE PRATT.
LALAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
God of Red, and God of White,
Lips like East at swoon o’ Night ;
L'ttle teeth like drops of snow
In a heart-faint rose’s glow.
One sweet, finger, looped with gold,
Flashes yellow through the fold
Of the cambric in her hand,
As a star of upper land.
Pair a-twinkle, shadow’d eyes,
Voice of swelling fall and rise
Floated on her quiet breath ;
She’s my Life and she’s my Death.
N.S.W.
HUGH M'GRAE.
MARY'S
CITTLE
MOUTH.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
fMAKY *m> a
1 1'TTLt RouT «,
ITS
*S SNOX,,
A SD S v £«V<W«ERe. TrtM
Mm*y went
Those Tooset -pegs
”W(jul.O Go
.Jh hopes To
s^/STCft
A. tANN
X at nhShT Tiwfc, %
Sne Bnted
eh <K
F K T >
Khd szr
'Ehi %JHDEsH€A*yto
Jn TVdPSS to
CA!T£v\ * KAf
Xk .


COPENHAGEN
\1
CHERRY BRANDY
HEERING
By Special Appointment
Purveyor to the /
KING.
A CHOICE
TABLE D’HOTE DINNER
is served Every Evening- at
BAUMANN’S CAF€
162 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
T. M. Slattery, M.L.C., ex-Minister for
Justice (N.S.W.), was on Monday found guilty of
misappropriating the funds of his client, Mrs.
Scanlon (one of the Tyson legatees), and sentenced
to years’ imprisonment with hard labor.
The “Victorian Municipal Directory and
Gazetteer ” comes from Messrs. Arnall and Jack-
son, Melbourne. An important feature of the
compilation is the portion concerned with Com-
monwealth matters, and the Victorian municipal
information is as copious and well-arranged as
usual. Very useful, also, will be found the sec-
tions dealing with Government departments,
boards, trusts, and public institutions generally.
The publication is in its 40th year, which vouches
for its grip on the public.
The Charm of Beauty. —“Valaze” is not a
make-up, but a food which builds up the tissues and
nourishes the skin; removes freckles, wrinkles, sun-
burn, sallowness, &c., and enables a woman to retain
youthful freshness until advanced age. It takes only
a few minutes to apply at night, and the only
trace of it next day is the wonderful improvement it
has wrought to the skin. After once using it you will
feel absolutely satisfied that its value is worth three times
the money. But beware of substitutes. Valaze—small
jar 3s. 6d., large 6s. ; posted 6d. extra. Valaze Face
Powder, three tints, absolutely pure, hygienic, and con-
tains no lead, chalk or bismuth, 2s. box. Valaze Herbal
Complexion Soap is unequalled for keeping the face and
hands in perfect condition —lasts six months —2s. Valaze
preparations obtainable W. H. Soul, Pitt-street, Sydney
Civil Service, all leading - chemists, or direct from Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, 243 Collins-street, Melbourne.*
Under Vice-Regal Patronage.
M AD A/WE MASSERAN,
Of Collins Street, Melbourne,
Will be at the
HOTEL METROPOLE from the 3rd till the 10th, and
from the 18th till the 23rd of APRIL. Inclusive
dates both visits.
“eEA^EMETTES”
Are the Ideal Fabrics
fo R
fir
lis!\
RAINCOATS.
The New
Corsets
'■T'- . ' -i: v
For Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . . ♦
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 4, 1905.
My Dear Arini.
Latest news of Lady Rawson is from Melbourne.
She was writing letters for the greater part of the
day and a half the Orontes was in port. Miss
Rawson had a bad cold, but before she could give
a trial to any of the 200 odd remedies suggested
by fellow-passengers, it got better. A long pro-
cession of florists’ men carrying flowers, addressed
to the wanderer, trailed down to the steamer
before casting-off time, and behind them came
many Melbournians of importance.
To the great delight of the florists, caterers,
cabmen and other representative sections of society,
a brisk Easter is assured in Sydney. The North-
cotes give a ball towards the end of this month,
Mrs. Eric Mackay (one of the Knoxes) holds a
young people’s dance in a few weeks, and some
fashionable marriages come off presently. Miss
Pearl King marries Mr. Wills-Allen on the 23rd,
and Miss Trickett Mr. Harry Maxwell on a day
this week.
Nofthcotes at first pleaded to be excused from
attending St. Vincent’s Hospital ball, early next
month. They intended to keep off charity balls
with great earnestness. But a St. V. H. com-
mittee is hard to beat. It picked out two of its
best-looking members (one of them has dimples
and a smile that would make a bronze man abject),
and told them to make the Governor change his
mind. With the help of Private Sec. Share, they
succeeded. One of the features of the ball will be
the dancing of the Hiawatha ballet by some of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s co.
Most interesting personalities at Medlow Hydro,
last week were the Vicomte de Satge de St. Jean
and his bride. The latter, black-haired, brown-
eyed, was in the Dana Gibson tableau, “Check-
mate,” staged at the Hydro, casino on Saturday
night, and on that account not a visitor able to sit
up and take nourishment was absent from the
audience. The Vicomtesse, in white with lilies
of the valley all over her, makes a good picture at
dinner. In the morning, in a navy-blue frock and
a red hat, she also harmonises with the landscape,
and her singing voice—she was a pupil of Eeld-
wick’s—is prettier than the average amateur’s.
Another bride up yonder was a well-known
book-keeper of the Hotel Metropole. She has
married a Belgian wool-buyer, M. Pierre Nutte.
Sydney dressmakers tell me that their clients
are in no hurry to adopt the eight or nine-yard-
wide skirt. Up to date, one of the leading dress-
makers has made only three great-circumference
skirts, and not one leg-of-mutton sleeve. Talking
of dress. Aren’t some women marvels at the
management thereof ! The wife of a dispossessed-
by-rabbits-and-drought squatter, whom I met last
week in a neighboring State, was wearing a
costume that caused me to admire. At the
second time of admiring, she showed me the bill
of costs for the outfit, and said I could make any
fun I liked of the staggering figures. It read-
eight yards material for dress 2s. 9d., silk Is., lace
Is. ; total 4s. 9d, She had made the frock herself ;
the materials had been bought at a salvage sale
after a fire.
Victorian and N.S.W. railway commissioners
would show warmth of heart if they provided
foot-warmers in trains when the weather is wintry,
even if the calendar says the season be only
autumn. Last week when returning from Mel-
bourne by express, and on the Victorian side, I
came on a -woman passenger weeping softly into a
large bunch of violets on her breast. “Her feet
were so cold !” As my own walkers were in like
condition, I caught a conductor and pleaded four
cold feet as the reason for one foot-warmer.
“But—the department don’t issue them till the
end of next month.”
What awful wrecks the majority of women look
after a longish railway journey ! They appear
about as attractive as an old tan shoe. The worst
sea-traveller can (.usually sleep when out at sea,
but could anything but a dormouse sleep on a
joggling train? Only feminine railfarers I have
■seen to come off the journey not looking like
acute bilious cases, who had dossed in the Domain
for a week, are the Rickards family. They—
mama and two daughters—finish up fresh as at
starting. Beautifully waved hair, travelling
frocks looking as if they’d just come from the
tailor’s, and an all round air of having had an
aromatic bath.
A Sydneysider, now m New York, writes:
“Lilian Russell celebrated her fiftieth night as
Lady Teazle by giving a solid silver spoon and a
portrait (most Americans have a fad for souvenir-
spoon collecting) to each member of the audience.
There are 49 playhouses all in full swing here.
A Mrs. Shaw Hall, of New York city, has been
awarded the handsome solid gold slipper trophy,
offered by the Hearst newspapers, for the smallest,
prettiest, and most perfect foot in the U. States.
The three judges were Mrs. Christie, wife of the
famous artist.who created ‘ The Christie Girl,’ A.
J. Cammeyer, probably the best-known shoe
expert in this country, and M. Piccirilli, the
sculptor, who designed the Maine monument.
‘Mrs. Hall’s foot is perfect,’ says the sculptor.
‘lt possesses that rare combination—smallness,
prettiness, and perfect shape. The instep is a
trifle high—a fraction of an inch. It conforms to
the Greek canon of proportion, which is that the
foot be as long as the head ; also that the length of
the foot be to the height of the body as one to
seven and a-half, that is 74 times as great as the
length of the foot. The lady’s foot is beautiful,
because it is natural. It is not the fashionable
foot of the day. That has a much higher instep,
and the high instep is neither natural nor beauti-
ful. It is a fashionable monstrosity, made by
generations of wearers of high-heeled torturous
shoes. And people have come to regard as a mark
of good breeding the deformed foot, passed down
by generations of vain and foolish ancestors. The
high instep is no more the mark of good breeding
than are the docked mane and tail of a horse.’ ”
Clubmen of a certain club in a neighboring
State are having a laugh on a fellow-member. He
and his wife never got on well together, and
recently the lady died, leaving all her large quan-
tity of beautifully engraved silver-ware to her
lawyer. After the statement of this bequest in
the will came the curt intimation, “ To my husband
I leave my electro-plate.”
Relations between two feebly frolicsome Vanity
Fair women of this State have snapped with a
j agged edge. Mrs. A. went to stay a few days with
her dearest friend, Mrs. Z., at a certain Point. One
night, the visitor returned alone after a visit to
the theatre. In the darkened hall, at the foot of
the stairs, a tall figure in a crush hat and a long
overcoat, rose out of the gloom and clasped her in
what it considered a passionate manly embrace.
The embraced responded by jabbing the embracer
sharply in the back of the neck with the handle of
her fan and saying, in a muffled voice, “ Let go,
you idiot ! Why do you choose such inopportune
times and places for your idiotic love-making?
One of these days, your wife will drop on you.”
And the wife did drop— off the footstool that gave
her height. And as she shed the hat and over-
coat, she stammered out, “I just meant it for a
joke, but you—you — ! ” Then she festooned her-
self over the bannister, and wept.
A story hangs to the much - reproduced
“Sweetest Face on Earth,” now popular in the
print shops. The original picture was com-
menced by George E. Hicks, R. A., as far back as
1890, though it was not hung until 1900. The
model was a Launceston (Tas.) girl. The painter,
travelling out, met her father, a sea captain, on a
casual trip to Tas., and his artistic eye was
enchanted with the captain’s little daughter. He
asked for sittings, and got them. The owner of
the face, who is a sad-faced young woman now,
was moved to big, childish tears when the painter
cut off her upper sleeve for the proper wa~,h
effect; and Hicks painted her with the last two
tears hanging like dew on the loveliest violets.
Not long ago the R.A. sent his Tasmanian model
the artist’s proof.
Lady Frances Cooke, known during her spin-
sterliood in America as Tennessee Claffin through
her association with Victoria Woodhill Martin as
lecturer and pamphleteer, and through her cam-
paign for Congress against Sunset Cox, is about
to organise her native land in favor of woman’s
suffrage, “from the Atlantic to the Pacific and
from Canada to the Gulf.” She predicts that
women will have the suffrage inside four years,
and that a mixed Presidential ticket will sweep
the country in 1908.
Five Hebrew girls appear in Sydney Uni.’s
latest B.A. list. A daughter of Dr. Cohen and
a niece of Mr. Justice Cohen are amongst them.
An authority tells me that up to this record batch
there were only four Hebrew Arts girls in the
Uni. catalogue—two Misses Marks, Misses De
Lissa and Hilda Caro.
Mr. R. B. Parry, one of the best known figures
in Sydney musical circles and hon. sec. of the
Liedertafel, is dangerously ill of typhoid fever.
By the way, the death of Signor Riccardi’s only son
from typhoid has been a heavy shock to the popu-
lar teacher. The deceased son had not long been
married.
Lady Mary Lygon, Lord Beauchamp’s clever
and charming sister, is marrying into the Clinton
family (headed by the Duke of Newcastle), which
is connected with the Pelhams through the
marriage of an ancestor. Captain Trefusis, the
groom-to-be, has, it is said, been attached to Lady
Mary Lygon for some years.
Millionairess Mrs. Lewis Hill, at present motor-
ing, with her husband and a suite of servants, in
Maoriland en route to Sydney, is the sister of Miss
Dottie Davis—otherwise “ Hope Temple,” the
well-known composer. Fellow-travellers say that,
in addition to her fortune of some millions, Mrs.
Lewis Hill is a brilliant pianist, and speaks soma
five languages.
The late Mr. F. H. B. Turner, manager of
Dalgety and Co.’s branch in Rockhampton (Q.),
who died in the train between Brisbane and
Sydney, the other week, was in his youth a well-
known figure in Melbourne society. In those
days, he was lieutenant on the Nelson, a gay
English boy, “crazy with life’s new wine.” The
then Miss Snodgrass, now Dowager Clarke, and
Miss Ryan, now Lady Charles Scott, were belles
of the hour. Fashionable marriages were frequent,
and lively Lieutenant Turner w 7 as in request as a
groomsman. Later, the merry sailor left the sea
and took tp squatting pursuits. Finally, he
joined Dalgety’s staff, and died in harness.
The eight-storey pile of flats built on Dailey pro-
perty, opposite Parliament House, in Macquarie-
street, has been christened “The Albany.” If you
go to live there you’ll pay £l5O a year rent,
eighteen-pence each for your meals, and a small
attendance fee. There are seven flats of five
rooms. Manager of the place opened “Cromer”
years ago.
Mrs. Lacy, an Australienne, and wife of the
captain of one of our wandering men-o’-war,
leaves with her little son for England by the
Somerset this week.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“ There is a chance of Cliveden furniture being
put into holland pinnies for the autumn. The
widow thinks to jaunt again to England with her
two daughters. As one is out of love with Mel-
bourne and t’other just out of her school-days,
they will probably be willing enough to pack-up.
“The S’Australian Governor’s wife gets about
in the saintly city without fuss or fret. Just as
he enjoys boxer and sac coat, she revels in sim-
plicity of raiment. The Governoress, the other
day, opened a wing, or arm, or something,
of the Maternity Home at Rose Park, and it
was christened the Barr-Smith wing. But now,
why ? Will the gentleman take that as a compli-
ment ?
“ The Kubelik party has been already men-
tioned for the ’roo-land tour. With the famous
fiddler (the Century, with a wild wave of its hair,
dubbed him once ‘ the re-incarnated Paginini ’)
comes his interesting and good-looking wife —a
Hungarian Countess —also his secretary, to say
nothing of the staff. The top-notching fiddler
has had the ’flue. He recuperated at Monte
Carlo. A season through Paris, Vienna, London
and Rome are under way—then he comes here.
“Congratulations are due to Mr. Charlie Lem-
priere and Miss Dora Mitchell, the pale-gold
youngest sister of Melba. Dad Mitchell has just
given his blessing to the pair, and the course of
true love makes its start amid the jubilant con-
gratulations of both families. Charlie Lempriere
is the sporty sort who divides his time between
engineering interests and polo, and is a good-
humored chap with a Dick Nevill air of amiability.
“ A London journal alludes to the high percent-
age of governesses among the insane of England ;
and physicians now classify a mental disease
specially as ‘ Governesses’ insanity ! ’ I notice
that in several particularly pathetic cases quoted,
the significant fact—‘No expectations’—closes
the outline. No expectations ! What a world of
horror the term holds! The tea-room girl, the
actress, the nurse, the shop-girl, the choir-Miss,
all hug their dreams of wealth and love and
marriage even into the grey spinster ages, and these
actually save the strugglers from madness. The
governess learns to despair early. She has ‘no
expectations ’ and therefore goes mad.
“A box-party of much interest at ‘ The Eternal
City ’ on Wednesday night were the Maorilanders
—Mr. Joseph and Mrs. Ward with a party,
among them Miss Bonsor, of Sydney. Mrs. Ward
wore gorgeous raiment of pearl satin with rose-
point on the corsage.
“ The Wards dined at Cliveden, one night last
week, and took part in an informal dance there.
The Dowager has given several of these early and
particular hops since her return from M.L.
“The small boys who are dragged out to full-
grown hops by desperate mamas with daughters
to hustle to market ought to strike in a body this
season. It’s too bad when young Arthur and
squeaky Freddie have to turn out in their Etons
to polka with their big Maypole sisters. It gives
a youngster no chance to keep his illusions about
fighting for his love and his lady, and struggling
for a pearl of a girl all the men are after. Putting
him out to balls young is ruinous to a boy’s best
delusions.
“ Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Brooke are booked for a
London season. Mrs. Brooke’s Eastern looks and
Paris dressing are pleasant matters; and her hos-
pitality has been the thing of the year.
“A familiar Frenchman of Block haunts was
requisitioned by Chief Justice Madden not long
ago for lessons, owning that his tongue had rusted
in the language. The plump Parisian approached
the task with smiles. ‘ What time ? Let us see !
You’d better walk out of town with me three
times a week. That will be having health and
instruction at the same time. What do you
think ? ’ The Frenchman blew out his cheeks,
rounded his eyes, and was such an eloquent pro-
test against the health-cum-instruction notion
that the C. J. had to fix his talk for some time
indefinite, which is not yet.
“Two young Melbourne girls of the ‘respect-
able ’ class went fooling around town, the other
night, in man clothes. The make-up was passable
enough, but, when the damsels got as far as Rus-
sell-street and happened to be outside the"police
barracks, they broke into a tell-tale giggle and
came under police scrutiny. At the watehbouse
a paternal police-sergeant told them to go straight
home like good boys, and then he craftily stroked
one of them on the head until her golden hair fell
down upon her shoulders. The girls, who hare
been giving their own account of the brilliant
adventure to an admiring circle of friends, are
quite happy in the supposition that their sex was
unsuspected previous to the back-hair display. It
has not yet occurred to them that a pair of Jills,
who think they can pass for Jacks, under a police-
man’s scrutiny, by merely wearing Jack’s clothes,
are paying themselves a poor compliment.
“ The elderly widower has many ways of pacify-
ing the family when he brings home his second
comforter. In the case of a moneyed grey-beard,
the other day, the soothing of the scornful sons
was more difficult than usual. ‘ Please be nice to
her,’ implored the ancient bridegroom ; ‘shewon’t
have me long.’ But that had no effect until he
confided to his family that he had made a fresh
will, and had only allowed a hundred a year to
No. 2—till her death or re-marriage. Then glad-
ness returned to the hearts of the afflicted, and
they trimmed their manners anew; and perfect
concord reigns in that home. The wonder is that
among all the sons there was not one doubting
Thomas.
“Mrs. Alec Landale, before steaming off to the
Cold Country, left a jolly little gold watch-chain
and a gold purselet as trophies for the first big
Autumn golf match of the Royal Melbourne Club.
“ Three fine sporting brothers in a wool district
have contributed over £lOOO to a private fund for
a late sport’s family. This particular fund reveals,
for all its efforts at secrecy, some fine sense of
generosity on the part of the squattocracy.
“Mrs. Walton Merewether passed through
this State, dallying a while with Melb. friends
after a long globe-trot. She takes along to Sydney
a son with the Oxford stamp not quite obliterating
the young Australian label, and a daughter of
improved looks. She also brings flattering
accounts of the success of her strum pieces—prin-
cipally the Shadow Waltz, which, it is said, is
played at all the swell places.
“The Autumn coat in most demand is an
Invernessy affair with side-flaps where the sleeves
°ught to be, and colossal pockets in which ono
°onld stow a violin-ease, a set of toilette ware, and
all one s secret hopes. It’s a sporty, jaunty rig.
“Premier Bent is fond of the theatre, and he
has left off going alone. [Now he always has a
fair friend. On Friday Mr. Bent was the most
engrossed fatman in the whole world eyeing ‘ The
Eternal City.’ On Saturday night he was the
fattest chuckler at Rickards’. An allusion by an
alleged comic man to Bent’s half-bricks drew a
guffaw from Tommy and a blush from the lady
in his charge.
“Is it any wonder that Block charmers are
driven to theft and subterfuge to procure personal
adornment when the fierce dress competition is
continually fomented by milliners and dress-
builders? A milliner will express surprise to
smart Miss Joy that she is only ordering two hats
for the winter, when pretty Miss Merriment has
already ordered six—four of them to be beautiful
imported models. Insidious tempter ! So Miss
Joy orders immediately four hats instead of two,
and trots off jauntily, while wondering how she
will screw the 10 guineas out of her poor old
mommer, or her toil-weary dad, or raise it any-
how from somewhere. The same thing with
pushing dress-builders, who egg poor Miss Dash
on to excessive orders by quoting the extensive
winter raiment being prepared for that fine-look-
ing Miss Dot.
“ Some she-grads. shine out in the Final Honor
exams, of the March ’Varsity term. Miss Mary
Clementina de Garis has swooped brilliantly down
on the Surgery Scholarship, and her brothers of
the saw are left behind in the bone-yard. The
cake for Modern Languages and Literature (3rd
year Arts) has gone to Miss Edith M’Conachie.
In the branch of medical obstetrics three shes
figure well.
“An antiseptic handkerchief is coming into
use. Some worrying individual has proved how
various diseases use a mouchoir as a sort of han-
som cab to travel from one constitution to another,
and a firm started immediately to manufacture a
handkerchief guaranteed to resist every kind of
bacilli.
“ By the mail comes news of the movements of
Mrs. Flood, of Sydney, with Mrs. and Mr.
Christie, late of Melbourne. They intend emigrat-
ing to the banks of the higher Thames for the
summer. Miss (Mars) Buckley loiters with some
relatives in London, and gets praise among the
Anglo-Australian batch for her piano play. Mrs.
Fitzroy Fletcher (nee Miss Macpherson Grant)
appeared at a Dublin drawing-room the other day
in raiment so gorgeous that several papers of the
Green Isle lavished high epithets upon it.
“Mrs. Arthur Mahaffy (who was Enid Boyd) has
started off from Melbourne, where she has holi-
dayed a while, to join her good-looking young
spouse at Fiji, where he holds the post of Colonial
Secretary.
“The matrimonial engagement of an Australian
artiste recalls an early love affair when an adorer
actually reached the point of building a cottage
for the residence of his talented wife-elect. But
London called. She went, and the cottage re-
mained idle on the adorer’s hands. When all
hope of her return was given up, the lover sought
sympathy from the lady’s relatives—and found
solace in marriage with one of them.
“A charming, dressy, showy society dame has
almost wrecked her constitution by over-indulg-
ence in fizz. Now she would willingly go without
the ‘ thou.’ and the ‘ loaf of bread ’ for ever if she
only were sure of her ‘ cup of wine underneath the
bough ’ —or the table. Like many other inveterate
bibbiers, she guards her secret jealously, and
keeps a smiling front. An eminent physician,
whose brass-plate blinks at the top of Collins-street,
tells me that there is small hope of saving a
woman sipper who gets the champagne habit really
badly.
Yonrs Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


CRIPPLED WITH PAIN.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills—The One Cure for Rheumatism.
“ ~W~ KNOW to my cost that you can’t cure
Rheumatism with liniments or common
-JL medicines,” said Mrs. E. Bateman, 1
Campbell-street, Glebe, Sydney. “When
you are crippled with Rheumatism, every person
you meet tells you about some cure —but they are
all useless. I tried them, so I know. Nothing
can cure Rheumatism till you get the aching acid
out of your blood. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured
me after everything else failed —simply because
they went right down to the root of the trouble
in the blood. I honestly believe that they are the
only cure for Rheumatism in the world.”
Mrs. Bateman is right. Rheumatism is a disease
of the blood. It is caused by uric acid contracting
the muscles and inflaming the joints. Cold and
dampness don’t cause Rheumatism—they only
set the pains going. Liniments and hot cloths
don’t cure Rheumatism—they only ease the pains
for the time being. The Rheumatism and the
pains will last as long as the uric acid is left in the
blood —and nothing can drive it out of the blood
but Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They actually
make new blood—and that is the only possible
cure. Mrs. Bateman has proved that.
“For years I was a martyr to Rheumatism,”
said Mrs. Bateman. “At first I thought a little
rubbing would drive the pain away, but soon I
found my mistake. Every day the Rheumatism
seemed to get a better hold of me. I suffered
untold agony. My arms and shoulders were stiff
with pain. Night after night I lay awake groan-
ing in agony. I could never sleep except when X
was worn out with suffering. Nothing did me
the least good, so I began to give up all hope of
being cured.”
Many people think that if once they have
Rheumatism it is bound to come back in cold and
damp weather. That is wrong. Rheumatism
can be driven completely out of the system—but
only by Dr. Williams’ Pills sweeping the
uric acid out of the blood. Neither liniments nor
purgatives, nor kidney pills, nor hot baths, nor
electricity, nor metal charms, nor common medi-
cines can cure it. None of these things can
possibly touch the blood. But Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills actually make new blood.
“In spite of everything I tried, I kept getting-
worse and worse,” Mrs. Bateman went on.
“ Then I made up my mind to give Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills a fair trial. The very first box gave
me an appetite, such as I had not had for years.
The second seemed to put new heart in me. I
kept on with them, and soon I noticed that every
dose eased the pain. By the time I had finished
my supply I was completely cured. I have never
had a twinge of Rheumatism since I took my last
dose of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured Mrs. Bateman
after all other treatment had failed. Still there is
no mystery about that. They cure disease simply
because they strike at its root in the blood. Dr.
Williams Pink Pills do only one thing, but they
do it well—they actually make new blood. They
don t act on the bowels—they don’t tinker with
the symptoms. They won’t cure any disease that
isn’t caused by bad blood. But then that is the
cause of all such common ailments as anaemia,
indigestion, headaches, backaches, kidney trouble,
lumbago, rheumatism, sciatica, neuralgia, ner-
vousness, St. Vitus’ dance, rickets, decline and
the secret irregularities in the health of growing
girls and women. Every day Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills are curing these diseases, because they all
spring from bad blood. If you are in doubt
whether that is the cause of your special ailment,
write for free medical advice to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co.. Queen’s Place, Sydney. From the
same address you can order the genuine Dr.
Milliams Pink Pills—2s. 9d. a box, six boxes
15s. 3d., post free.
9
I
m
D? WILLIAMS
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE
EOPLE
PERSONAL ITEMS.
April 1 is falling gradually out of notice.
Yet it should be “ saint’s day ” for a great number
of people.
An admiring Melbourne paper lias spoken
of him as Mr. “ Gorge ” Reid.
Ernest Favenc, explorer and writer, is
seriously ill in Sydney.
B. R. Wise has reached London, and will
settle down to work before the Privy Council for
a while.
Cricketer E. F. Waddy, of Sydney Uni.,
lias taken his 8.A., and follows his brother, Rev.
P. S. Waddy, into the ministry.
Attorney-General Symon has a son in
England preparing to enter Oxford to study law,
and also three daughters studying in Europe.
Monsignor O’Brien, of St. John’s College,
Sydney, stands high among the tipped for Rock-
hampton (Q.) diocese, vice Bishop Higgins. He
has had three close runs for vacant mitres, the last
when he got in second for coadjutor Archbishop
of Sydney.
Died recently at Hunter’s Hill, Sydney,
S. T. Leigh, aged 78, an old-time Sydney en-
graver and publisher, once 1 of the firm of Degruchy
and Leigh. Mr. Degruchy was the expert who,
in 1874, proved the Coady-Buckley will to be a
forgery.
Mr. Lawrence Thompson, of Germanton
(N.S.W.), is a remarkably clever mechanic. He
lias all kinds of machinery running, entirely made
by himself and driven by steam. Years ago he
made a steam motor tricycle. He has also made a
phonograph, every part himself, even to the
recorder. Ris first cylinders were made of candles
melted down.
There are several reasons why the N.S.W.
Government finds it hard to get a Judge for the
Arbitration Court. The work is harder than that
of the average Supreme Court Judge. It is
duller: there is never a bright breach-of-promise
case, with a pretty plaintiff roving a sparkling
eye over the Bench. And there is some fear of
social disfavor. One gentleman, who was very
much concerned in the passing of the Arbitration
Act, found that, on that account, his wife was
boycotted in certain high “sassiety” circles !
BISHOP HARMER, of Adelaide (now called to
Rochester, Eng.).
Victorian Premier Bent at a recent lun-
cheon, speaking of adverse criticism : “I am like
the moon that the dogs bark at —I go on shining! ”
Obit in Adelaide, aged 81, Henry Har-
grave, civil engineer. He supervised the con-
struction of many of the Adelaide wharves, and
of the Largs Bay pier and railway. For a long
time he advocated the cutting of a channel through
Lefevre’s Peninsula from Largs Bay to the north
arm of the Port River, but the scheme never came
to anything.
A note from a bathing-place :
Mr. G. H. Reid recently attended a swimming carnival
at Rushcutter’s Bay. He and Gov. Rawson sat side by
side on the usual Union-Jacked dais. By-and-bye the
proceedings palled on G.H.R. and he slept. Like a cat a
camera-fiend stalked him, but the faithful old sea-dog was
on deck and nudged the snorer in the nick of time. He
awoke as the display of fancy diving happened, and at
once took a keen professional delight in the somersaults
of competitors. With the next item, however, his chin
subsided into his bosom ; and, when his hat had nearly
rolled off into the water, a diplomatic retirement was
deemed advisable, and the two portly old gentlemen
puffed their way out to the bluff Governor’s unpreten-
tious one-horse carriage. A result of this visit has been
the daily attendance of Mr. Reid’s two youngsters at the
baths for swimming lessons. A spectacle the other
morning was the Dry-dog man himself, standing on the
platform and yelling encouragement to his youngest
hope, splashing about in the arms of an instructor.
“ Kickyer legs,” roared dad ; likewise “ don’t wriggle so
much.” The latter remark was added as an afterthought,
as if prompted by the prickings of a guilty conscience.
Board of Works Fitzgibbon, at the opening
of Lilydale, Vic., water works, the other day,
pathetically asked a crowd of well-wined after-
dinner admirers of his not to sing “ He’s a Jolly
Good Fellow,” “for,” said the white knight,
soggy with sorrow, “ I’m not a jolly good fellow,
I’m a blind leader of the blind, an incompetent, a
fraud, and my folly and extravagance have reduced
the Board to its present deplorable financial con-
dition. At least that is what a newspaper says of
me.” But they sang that Fitzgib. was a jolly good
fellow all the same, and the grey poet shed tears
when the post-prandial warblers of Lilydale
insisted that he was a jolly good fellow. It was a
pathetic endeavor on his part to give importance
to one of the great “ guffs” of life. At a compli-
mentary dinner, after the fourth glass of wine,
everybody is a jolly good fellow.
A dashing widow, formerly of Melbourne,
who has just married again almost as soon as she
heard of the death of hubby, was the subject of a
good yarn by a Toorak parson. He described her
as the most beautiful, but least blushful, of all the
brides he had “ turned-off.” Day before the cere-
mony he had occasion to interview the victim-to-
be with regard to certain papers to be tilled in.
“Any profession?” he asked, casually, running
his eye over a document. “ Professional beauty,”
responded the fair young thing calmly.
Mr. Peter Board, whose recent appoint-
ment as Under-Secretary to the Department of
Public Instruction was a surprise packet to all
concerned, graduated with second-class honors at
his B.A. examination in 1889. He had as a col-
league Mr. John M'Manainey, who passed head
of the year, with a brilliant first class and the Uni-
versity gold medal. Both entered the Education
Department, and time has reversed the order —
Mr. Peter Board is head of the Department, while
his fellow-student had not risen higher than a
second-class mastership when he left.
“G.M.”: Re Dr. Cherry (B. 16/3/’O5),
appointed Vic. Director of Agriculture. Granted
that Dr. Cherry is a very able bacteriologist, that
he is Australian, a fine speaker, and a good fellow,
he is not as good a man as Dr. Howell, who,
since the slight placed upon him, has resigned
his position as agricultural chemist. Moreover,
he also is Australian—is young, enthusiastic, and
thorough; is a man who, having passed his
exams., “put up bluey,” battled around, and finally
worked as an ordinary farm laborer in order to get
practical experience. It is men like him that the
State wants, and there is a rumpus now amongst
Victorian farmers because he was overlooked, that
will do Bent more injury than a diet of El wood
swamp water. Indeed, these usually lethargic
farmers have started a shilling subscription for
their benefactor, which is likely to run into big
figures.
T. W. Chambers, who was secretary of
that remarkable Darling River Navigation
Co. which has lately been wandering through all
the courts on the way up to the High Court, has
been one of the most striking old battlers of far-
west N.S.W. Wilcannia was a lively centre once,
with more pub. and money to the square yard
than almost anywhere in Australia, what time
Edmund Resch (now the big Sydney brewer) was
minting his first Australian gold by making
beer for the thirstiest community of a thirsty
continent. Chambers flourished at that time as a
merchant, and, with others, dreamed of setting'
up a new State (to be called Centralia); and
the Darling River was going to be their way
to the small world outside. That was what the
Navigation Co. was for. But drought came, and
rabbits, and it was found that, anyway, the country
wouldn’t carry anything like the stock that had
been reckoned on ; and bit by bit the dream faded
out. Chambers then went in for journalism in an
amateur sort of way, and raced up with a few
pounds of type to Mt. Brown goldfield when,
nearly quarter of a century ago, that place revived
the old dream. But it petered out, too ; and poor
old Chambers has only brought out his paper very
intermittently since then —there hasn't been an
issue for four or five years past. The plant is still
kept on hand, though, for the last of the old
dreamers can’t make up his mind to quite believe
Centralia was all a dream. He is now almost blind,
like many another man who has spent long years
out West.
First Macleay Fellow at Sydney University
is Harold Jensen, a native of Denmark, who was
brought to Queensland aged five. Brisbane Uni-
versity being still in the air, young Jensen was
sent to Sydney to finish his studies. He took a
brilliant science degree after a successful Uni-
versity course, and was appointed a geology
demonstrator at the ’Varsity. The Linnean
Macleay Fellowships founded by the late William
Macleay are worth £4OO a year each for life, under
conditions. They must be held by students who
have been for some time in Australia, and who
are prepared to devote the whole of their lives to
original research, particularly relating to Austra-
lian scientific matters. The Fellows enjoy the
emoluments as long as the trustees elected by the
Linnean Society and the University Senate are
satisfied they are keeping their noses to the
frindstone. The estate already provides for three
'ellowships, and the number and value will be
always increasing under the terms of the will.
THE LANDS POSITION IN N.S.W.
FAT LANDLORD (pushing thin selector in front of him, to keeper of the State ration-store):
“Give us something, mister; me and my mate here is starving.”
Among birthdays of this month are
Batchelor, M.H.R., 40, on the 10th ; S.A. Chief
Justice Way, 69, on the 11th; and Dr. Quick,
M.H.R., 53, on the 14th.
The vigilant Carington is noted as enter-
taining Henry Cainpbell-Bannermann at High
Wycombe, If the Liberals come on top at next
elections the Commonwealth will, it is said, see
“ Charlie ” again.
Professor A. Pollock, who succeeded Mr.
Threlr'all as Professor of Chemistry at Sydney
University, a few years back —with a blare of
trumpets as the first locally-grown professor—has
now graduated D.Sc. and is Dr. Pollock.
A question concerning one of the late
William M ‘Lean’s life insurance policies cropped
up in Melb. Practice Court last week. M'Lean
got an advance of £2OOO from the National Mutual
Life Association on the guarantee of a friend. He
was insured with the N.M.L.A. for £lOOO, and
had borrowed £l2l on the policy. The company,
having paid into court the balance due on the dead
man’s policy, the guarantor of the £2OOO loan
formally applied for this money, and got it. Poor
M‘Lean should have it epitaphed on his tomb-
stone : “ He died that he might pay his debts.”
Henniker Heaton, who has had a part of
his postal ideas realised, carries a bigger project
under his belt. He wants the British Govt, to
buy all cable services and subsidise all mailboats
in the Empire. And lie will achieve something of
it. Even a small man can do something with a
big idea if he is persistent enough.
The Shipham family, of Hamilton (Vic.),
boasts a record of an unusual sort, daughter Ellen
having attended school every day since November
’96, Emily since March ’9B, Jane since March ’OO.
Emma is the black sheep of the family, having
actually missed one whole day, through illness,
since January ’97. Poor little angels ! Fancy 28
years’ schooling spread amongst the four of them,
without one ever knowing the joy of “wagging
it.”
New Vic. Judge Eagleson poured out the
floggings with a lavish hand at his first Criminal
session. Mr. Eagleson’s practice was almost
wholly criminal prior to his being raised to the
Bench, and he is evidently making the mistake of
bringing too much knowledge to bear on his new
work. Among those who got a hot sentence was
one of Mr. Eagleson’s old clients. “Blime,” he
said indignantly to the police as he was removed
to gaol, “I never thought he’d ha’ done a thing
like that. Why it’s only two years ago that he
got 15 quid out o’ me.” And he stepped into
Black Maria musing on the ingratitude of Judges.
Another small slice of N.S.W. has fallen
into the hands of the mostly absentee landlord.
In 1840, in the times when such things were
possible, a large area of land near Newcastle was
disposed of in grants. A sheet of water, known as.
the Glenrock lagoon, divides the properties which
were presented, practically, to the now rich
Merewether family and the prosperous absentee
company, the Scottish Investment Co. These
grants preserved to the Crown 100 feet above high-
water-mark of all inlets. Glenrock lagoon, what-
ever it was in 1840, is now protected from the sea
by a sand-bar, through which the pent-in waters
more or less often escape into the Pacific Ocean.
The learned Equity Judge who heard the appeal
of the Crown to recover the reservation around
the lagoon, made 65 years after the land was.
given away, decided that the lagoon is not an
mlet'within the meaning of the statute, and that,
the unstable sand-bar across its mouth saves the
rich landlords from handing back to the State &
slice of their estates.
There are great ructions in Zion (U.S.A.)
just now, and Zionites are being expelled wholesale
by the “ Profit.” Among the “unfortunates” are
Deacon Partridge and his family, who went to
Zion from Kangaroo Island (S.A.) last year.
Partridge wrote to Dowie and protested against a
sermon in which the “ Profit ” had said Christ
was ignorant in some things. Dowie replied by
sending Partridge five dollars. Partridge returned
the money, v .AHd-insisted on an explanation, and
was promptly expelled—that is, forbidden to
enter any church, shop, public building, or square
in Zion. If any Zionite dares to speak to an
expelled friend and brother, he is promptly
expelled too.
Retirement of Dr. Howell from the posi-
tion of agricultural chemist will cost Victoria
something. He had instituted a scheme whereby
for a number of years the soils in all parts of Vic.,
and the different manures, crops, and modes of
tillage were to be thoroughly tested. Numerous
11-acre blocks have already been fenced, wire-
netted, and partly prepared for next season’s
sowing. For the fencing and netting the Govern-
ment has already paid ; but now for all purposes
of the scheme these plots are practically useless.
Dr. Howell will shortly leave for England to pur-
chase machinery to manufacture super-phosphates
for the Mt. Lyell Co. at Yarraville; and on his
return he will take control of the works at a salary
that makes his old State pay look very sick.
Five Sydney women-painters, Misses Mes-
ton, Norton, Stephens, and Cusack (2), will hold a
joint exhibition of work at Walter Bradley’s
rooms, George-street, Sydney, from 14th to 27th
April next.
A shining light is Tommy Bent
Set in Victoria’s firmament.
The shining that all mortals view
Is to his superb polish due.
Though dogs delight to bark and bite,
Bent goes on beaming in the night.
Astronomers are wrong—the dim,
Pale sun derives its light from him.
His fond admirers w.e may fix
As moon-struck fools and lunatics.
He’ll shine for aye, though one imputes
He 3’et may shine the public’s boots !


Hotel
A ustra/ia
RATES FROM
12s. 6cS. per Day.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDPIN for Afternoon Tea.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running' day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of
guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
FALIERES' PHOSPHATINE
A Valuable adjunct to Infantile Dietnry.
Parents who would rear Strong Children, and avoid
the troubles incidental to Teething should use it.
fmmiifto
TAt/ERES
FOOD FOR INFANTS & INVALIDS
All OHEiiiaia and Gnocbbs.
EASTER VISITORS from ALL STATES
should not fail to become acquainted with “ Sydney s
Big Jewellery House,” catering on modern lines for
Australia’s Fashionable Jewellery Buyers. The more
so should you visit us now when our Moderate Profit
System has to give way to
Our Big Sale Reductions
This Lovely 15et.
Gold Firefly Brooch
Extra heavy, best English make.
Every Fly brilliantly set with
Finest Pearls and Turquoise.
Regular Price, £6 10s.
Sale Price, £5/10/6.
A UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY
to indulge in something of the
best, at a big money saving.
Send for Bargain List*
G. & S. ALLIANCE, Ltd.
90, on the Block,
King St., SYDNEY.
Aboriginalities.
“ War E.” : The recently-developed taste
of sheep for rabbits (“Xerxes,” B. 23/3/’O5) has
become a serious matter for stock-owners. I have
seen sheep (well provided with grass and salt)
fight like dogs for a rabbit carcase. They become
bunnymaniacs, in fact, and grow poor prospecting
the paddocks few carcases. If the jumbucks could
only be trained to live on the lire pest, the rabbit
and drought problems would be solved.
* * •* *
Re rabbit-eating sheep. When
on the road (especially in drought time) stock
will devour anything, principally on account of
the lack of moisture in the stuhble they subsist
upon. In nor’-west N.S.W. the rabbits (for want
of food and water) used to huddle against the
corners of wire fences ; and passing stock, if not
prevented, devoured the dead and made the
living flee for their lives. But cattle and horses,
even when they have plenty of ordinary food, are
fond of meat; and I have seen “green” bones
and scraps eaten as quickly by cattle and horses
as by a dog. Also, during the last big drought,
it was not uncommon to see stock eating dead
comrades. Sheep, by the way, often die from
eating the wool off each other’s backs.
* » » *
A rabbit rhyme
“ Hamer” : Australian children have some
games. A lot of youngsters were under my
window the other afternoon, and, after a turn
each at “marriages,” “burglars,” and “mur-
ders,” I was startled to hear baby-fanning sug-
gested. Carried nem. con., and the boss baby-
farmer (a position hotly contended for), having
supplied himself with needles, knives, poison, and
other business-requisites, had imaginary infants
brought to him at such a rate that he must have
done-for dozens within the half-hour. At last a
realistic kiddie, tired of make-believe, said, “Oh,
suppose we pretend that our biby’s a biby ? ” This
brought about maternal intervention, and the
game ended with a noise resembling applause,
blended with hardly consistent sounds of woe.
FINAL.
THE LADY : “ No, I shan't speak to yer if yer
don't take yer 'at orf when yer meet me in
the street.”
“Wiljar”: When bushed one night in
the Eastern Mallee I stumbled across the hut of a
shepherd who was playing euchre—right hand
against the left. Thought at first by the shindy
within that someone was getting dragged round
by the heels, but a strategic investigation through
a chink showed that the crank was only accusing
the near fist of cheating the off-side one !
* * * w
“ Dar.” : We were shearing valuable stud
rams for a squatter when a terrific thunderstorm
came on and the lightning danced brilliantly along
the shear-blades. Asked the boss to stop work
until the storm passed. “Yes,” said he, “I was
just thinking of ringing the bell. Wouldn’t like
to have any of those rams killed.”
MOTOR ITEM.
“ Say , Billy, look at the crocodile eatin'
the man! ”
“W.D.”: Be “perishes”—how’s this?
In the West, a few years ago, we ran out of pro-
visions, and we estimated by the map that it
would take five days to reach Southern Cross.
Left all hut five days’ bare allowance for two of
us with the third man, who camped with the spare
horses, and started on a Tuesday. Following
Sunday morning we finished our tucker, and then
travelled almost night and day till midday on
Thursday, when we found a road and a teamster
with tucker on board. I desponded at times and
got pretty weak, but suffered less than I thought
possible, and my mate kept in good spirits
throughout.
* * * *
A new provisional school had been built
and opened at Carramidgeree, and a stylish little
teacher came up from Sydney to take charge.
Pat Ryan was IG, helped his dad with
the teams, and boasted himself “as good a
bullocky as the old man ” —-langpa ;e and all.
And now Pat was to go to school and
learn all about more respectable adjectives.
The eventful morn arrived, and the teacher
lined her 15 pupils up with doubtful eyes.
They were so utterly differei.t fiom her last
class in the big public-school she came from.
She placed Pat at the top of the line, for
he was sft. lOin. h : gh ; then si e struck a
gong and said “Attention”; that means
“look at me.” No need for the order, for
every eye was glued on her already. The
teacher explained that the school was now
open and she wished them all to do their
best, and then followed the order “Left
turn,” but the class still remained staring
blankly at the teacher. “Left turn,” she
repeated ; but still no response. “ You big
boy at the top —don't you understand what
‘left turn ’ means?” Pat flushed red, but
offered no reply. “Well, children, watch
me”; she lifted her skirt a bit, and, dis-
playing a dainty ankle, turned to the left.
Whereupon Pat burst out “Lor’ bli-me 1
—why didn’t yer say, ‘ Wey. whoa back;
come here Kate,’ or ‘ Gee off, there !’ Then
we’d a’ understood yer, all right! ”
“C.R.8.”: “E. J.D.” errs about the
origin of the soldier-bird’s name, which is due
to his pugnacity and cheekiness. He will fight a
bird three times his size if he has a mate. As re-
gards his note, he will give it forth if only a tom-
tit approaches. The real alarm-bird is the black
magpie, which seems to be in league with all the
feathered inhabitants of the bush.
* * * *
Kyabram (Vic.) supplies the latest snake
yarn. A six-year-old kiddie, son of Jas. Finlay, a
.oeal landowner, picked up a sheep’s skull in a
I addock, and carried it home as a prize, which he
Displayed to his mother, who was horrified to see
a small, venomous snake coikd up inside the skull.
“W.S.T.”: Be a re-
cent suggestion that per-
sons acquainted with the
meanings of aboriginal place-
names should put them on record
before they are forgotten. Along
theN.S.'W'. coast are many places
named after native game or
natural objects. Thus “ Kuran-
gai ” or “ Kranghai” means wild
duck. “ Mario ”is thunder, and
“ Cooegal ” fire or lightning, Care
must be taken, however, to dis-
tinguish real aboriginal names
from native versions of European
names. Thus I thought “ l and o
kin ” and “ parbelow ” were the blacks’
own names for pumpkin and tobacco-
pipe, until it dawned on me that these
were attempts at the English terms, the
latter in the form of “pipe-blow.” So
with Woolloomooloo, about which so
much fuss has lately been marie. One
authority statesthe name was de-
rived from “ Walla-Mallah,” the
big kangaroo; and others hold
that it was an aboriginal effort
to pronounce windmill—wind-
mills having been numerous
in that locality in tlio
early days.
* * *
“Jim Pan ” : Re-
cently attended a bul-
lockies’ ball at Wil-
gaville. Conversation
mostly bullock, bunny
and beer. Decent Small talk
as short in supply as in a
fashionable ballroom. One power-
ful young ox-puncher wore a bright-
green handkerchief round his neck
in lieu of a collar, and had a differ-
ently colored silk handkercliit f
glaring out of every pocket. He
was obviously courting a big-gun
bullocky’s daughter. The pair
sat out several dances, and, when
they came to the end of their
scanty store of chatter, giggled,
fidgetted and sighed, till a bril-
liant idea struck the swain.
“Yous carn’t guess what I’ve got
in me porckit, Miss Puncher !” The
lady guessed, and guessed unsuccess-
fully, till at last her beau leant confi-
dentially over to her and half-whispered :
“Well, I’ve got the key of Nobby’s and
Bally’s bows. Them’s my two polers.”
“Chass”: In the more settled parts of
Victoria native cats are now almost unknown,
though there were hundreds a few years ago, and
it is not uncommon to meet country children 10
or 12 years old who have never seen either a native
cat or a ’possum. Latter is also becoming very
rare. Soon the blacks and all the native fauna
will have disappeared for ever, and the cow and
the caterpillar will be the only breaks in the land-
scape. „
“ 0.P.” : Have bushinen noticed a new
kind of red ant lately ? He resembles the ordi-
nary red meat ant, but is thinner and smaller in
the head, and has a spider-like way of climbing
trees by a succession of rushes and pauses. He
also elevates his hind-part over his back when
climbing. Looks as if the drought sent him climb-
ing trees after the sap, and so made a new kind of
insect of him.
* * * *
“ Moyhu ” : Sheep, when being driven
through a gate or out of a yard, invariably jump
over the same place, as if there were an object
there. Can any Bulletin reader explain? [Dr.
Robinson (“Wild Traits in Tame Animals”)
writes of the original mountain sheep : “As they
dash along some narrow ledge, the leader, who
is the only one that can see in front of him, jumps
over a chasm, and the rest do not wait till they
see the chasm before preparing to jump (for,
crowded by their companions, that would be al-
most impossible), but, on coming to the perilous
spot, they behave in exactly the same manner as
their trusted guide.”]
* * * *
“Kati-Kati”: Many people argue that
native trees and shrubs are the best for orna-
mental plantations in Australia because Nature
knew best how to select those that harmonise with
other features of Australian scenery. But it must
be remembered that Nature in Australia had not
the same choice of seed that man has. Nature
has always been a poor relation here.
“Rob. X.’*: An “old hand” tells me
this method of catching the lyre bird. Take a
game cock and liberate him in the haunt of the
lyre bird. The cock will crow, and the lyre bird
will proceed to interview him. Result: a fight
with the cock the victor and a pheasant’s tail the
spoil. [This is probably a steal from an account
of a method sometimes used by English poachers.
A “heeled” (steel-spurred) game cock is used;
and, as each pheasant is killed, the cock crows and
brings another opponent to his fate.]
* * » »
“S.S.C.” writes ;
I am the inventor of the self-closing gate described by
“Ed ” (B. 2/3/’( 5), and I may mention that the main bar
is made of galvanised pine, and the lattice-work consists
of wire rails with droppers which fold closely against the
main bar when the g'ate is open, in which position it will
remain until the rope is pulled when the vehicle has
passed through. The weight is made of scrap-iron and
cement. This gate has been patented in Australia, U.S.A.,
and Canada.
BILL JIMSK[?]S CATTLE PUP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where the Russian army mustered,
On the banks of far Sha-ho,
With three hundred thousand rifles
They’d some pretty scores to show ;
For the Cossacks shook their lances,
And each gunner slapped his gun,
And each reg’ment claimed itself to be -
The one and only one!;
While they told most fearsome stories
Of the Japs they daily shot,
For their lies were something awful,
And their shooting it was not ;
But one point they all conceded —
That the pride of all brigades
Was Lieutenant Colonel Chuckoff
Slinging in his hand grenades.
All their rivalry was silenced,
And all danger was forgot ;
When he came they didn’t bother
About bursting shell or shot;
For they’d crawl through the embrasures
And they’d leave each pit and hole
When the word from Kuropatkin
Put the colonel on to bowl.
While the Japs would drop their rifles
As they raced to get home first,
And there wouldn’t be a stiff ’un
Till the bombs began to burst;
And if any fuse was faulty,
He’d still break some beggar’s bones,
For he’d make ’em curve like Noble,
And he’d rock ’em in like Jones.
When the bell would ring for dinner,
And they finished up the fight
To assemble round the camp-fire
Singing “ Dolly Grey ” at night,
They would seek out Private Jimski
As he sat upon a log,
For the pet of all the army
Was Billy Jimski’s cattle dog.
“ That there pup,” said Billy Jimski,
“Is a boshter. Spare me days,
But at times I think he’s human
With his fascinatin’ ways ;
All the Japs has tried to cop him,
But their cunniu’ ways he knoo ;
An’ he’ll smell ’em at a distance,
Jest the same as me an’you.”
When the army corps was resting,
A.nd the battles all were off,
Bill would stroll across the ranges
With his faithful Towserkoff.
When they chanced upon an outpost,
Bill would sool his cattle pup,
And in less than half-a-shake old
Towserkoff’d round ’em up.
Each day a hundred pris’ners
They would hustle in—or more—
Till the Czar sent Bill an ikon
And old Kuropatkin swore
That with half-a-dozen Towserkolfs
He’d easily have all
The Japanese contingents in
The fortress of St. Paul.
At last the cannons boomed again,
The Russian ranks replied ;
8.1 l Jimski banged his rifle,
While his dog was at his side.
Then the word came through the trenches
That the firing was to cease,
And all eyes were turned to Chuckoff
As once more he toed the creas *.
All the Japs grew pale and shaky
As the bombs came whizzing there ;
They broke to leg, to off as well,
They twisted in the air.
Then the gunners turned and scattered.
And the cavalry had fled,
All the infantry were running
But the ones that were too dead.
When suddenly, from out that rout
A Jap tactician came ;
He was a strategist of note—
Sam Itchi was his name.
He acquired the sum of knowledge
That was stated to exist,
And when at the Yeddo College
Was the crack ventriloquist.
They said there was no science that
Sam Itchi didn’t know,
And he’d take down Pierpont Morgan if
He only had a show,
lie stood quite still till C'mckoff’s bomb
Came bumping up the hills,
Then hollered “ Fetch it,” in a voice
You’d take your oath was Bill’s.
A sudden rush, and Towerskoff
Dashed wildly up that slope ;
While Bill called on the Powers Above
To strike him heliotrope.
The dog picked up that blooming bomb
And turned without a pause,
And was streaking for the Russians
With it smoking in his jaws.
“ So long, chaps,” said Bill Jimski,
As from out Ms trench he got,
“ I’ve to meet a Moke in Petersburg
And very near forgot.”
Then ho chucked his rifle from him
And was travelling along -
With the Russian army on his tracks
Three hundred thousand strong.
Across the frozen Baikal
There’s an army on the scoot,
With Jimski’s faithful Towserkoff
Close on ’em in pursuit.
Oft the rear-guard try to pot him,
Yet, according to report,
The pace is getting faster
As the fuse is getting short,
The Czar completely lost his block
When first he heard the news,
And Trepoff got so wild he slaughtered
Fifty thousand Jews;
But he stopped the world from knowing
llow the army corps bust up
Through a Japanese ventriloquist
And Jimski’s cattle pup.
C.N.
If our sheep should eat live rabbits,
We would eulogise such habits ;
But s’pose rabbits should eat sheep—
That’s a thought which makes us creep !


The daintiest thing
for the table is
From Grocers and Stores.
R.EBO
SALT
Wholesale Agents s-'Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
VICE-REGAL
OPTICIANS .
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
THE OLDEST OPTICAL
HOUSE IN SYDNEY,
23 HUNTER STREET .
All Glasses at ....
London Prices only.
Sight Tested Daily, from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m., by our Mr.
A. A. ROBERTS, Member
British Optical Association.
I 'Hpu
•Inn «•«11'
,r '"' (iti Ciir
l imii 111 •
| > 111111 « ii
• i mi I.
t'« i ii.u
/Mi Tii
• 111 \v i,,
S ll •. 111
> • t
\'M I I
you
Tl'- 1 r
inis prinfi'n
as plain a S (jg
pair
to fit
your eye 1
ls needed
wliat-
vyg
con
sup/il
OU
V I • -It 11 | it
*« * M » 1 I » • I I I <
Ainii|ij||||j
T • • • •: «i iii •|
'mini i t<tj
“ Nardoo” : Wonder if there’s
any greater inconsistency on
earth than that which
characterises the
actual work of
N.S.W. Forestry
Department.
Writer spent 10
years on the Bar-
won River coun-
try, and super-
vised the ringbark-
ing of 200,000 acres,
under permit from Local
Board ; remember dis-
tinctly the absolute embargo
against the destruction of
pine (large or small) under
a heavy penalty. Bine
then, too, was plentiful;
and as a marketable product,
cut off by 150 miles of road
haulage to nearest railway,
it had no value. On the
other hand, Cobar district,
which has a continuous and
growing demand for its
local pine, is now
within measurable
distance of the last
stick. Station proper-
ties, which mostly
ringbarked, have
been under no re-
striction, and the
pine has been killed
right out.
“ Ivalka” : Arriv-
ing, not long ago, at a
small busli town, I had a
couple of drinks before
turning in. Next morning
a black tracker, in uniform,
•walked up to me, and said,
“You bin usem frightful plurry
language lars’ night. I arsk other
pfeller about you, an’ he tole me
you was a good pfeller, else I close
up lockin’ you up. You gibbit five
bob now, an’ I look around it.” I
denied the charge, but the darkie
gravely assured me that I was “too
plurry drunk to remember.” I gave him
a couple of shillings, in admiration .of his
ability, as a financier, and afterwards learnt
that tjhsis was a regular game of his, especially
with ‘('chequed-up ” shearers, who were, as a rule,
very hazy as to their doings the previous night.
* * * *
“ Hamer ” : I didn’t assert that fright is
the cause of death after snake-bite; but there is
no question that numbers of sick people suicide
through fear and despondency as surely as if tiiey
finished themselves with a razor or a pistol.
Cheerfulness and courage will go a long way
towards curing poisoning, or anything else, that
would kill anyone of a timorous nature. (But no
amount of cheerfulness and courage would
avail against a 2-grain dose of aconitine ; and the
bite of, say, the death-adder is almost as lethal.)
* * * *
“Jasper”; “Alone” (B. 2/3/’O5) could
have cured his dog of fruit-eating in one act by
chucking him a lump of bullock every time he
caught him at the game. Once borrowed two
grape-eating kangaroo dogs from a vine-grower.
Kept them a fortnight and fed them well; and
when I returned them they left the grapes alone
till they began to get starved again. By the way,
I know a bachelor cocky who feeds his dogs, cats,
and fowls entirely on sweet potatoes.
THE MODERN EDUCATION.
“ Well, dear, what did you learn to-day ?”
“ Oh, auntie! teacher gave us the botany of a cat."
“ Sfc. C.” : Our pet hen was seen picking
up a phosphorus bait. With scissors, wife
Eromptly opened breast and crop, removed the
ait with a hairpin, and then sewed up the inci-
sions. Choolc seems none the worse for her experi-
ence. Don’t know whether to admire most the
toughness of chook or the readiness with which a
woman tackles all life’s emergencies with a hair-
pin.
■* * * *
“A.P.R.” : In a Bogan shanty once I
secretly applied a lighted match to the bulb of the
pub. thermometer, which promptly put up 140
degrees, and the astounded assembly of drunks
unanimously agreed that truth was stranger than
fiction. Two of them complained of heat-
apoplexy, and cadged for drinks. Then I poured
cold water on the ledge around the bulb, and the
mercury dropped 50deg. Whereupon the dazed
drunks retired to the cellar to await the crack
of doom.
TAKING IT OUT OF THE DOG.
ENRAGED SWAGGY (whose request for beer has
been refused): “ Wouldn't give me no blanky
drink, Wouldn't he? The dirty skin-flint
I'll show ’im — an ’ you, too."
“War E.” : Nothing like “scientific”
farming ! Know a cocky who had rented a block
of land from a squatter; but, finding that,
through the drought, he had no chance of getting
a crop in, he asked to be released from the agree-
ment. Squatter refused point-blank. A week
later the cocky discovered gold on his block, and
showed a few prospects in a dish. There was a
rush, and the whole block was pegged out. A
few shafts are going down here and there. The
squatter is getting surface-damage, and the cocky
reckons he’s welcome to it !
* * * *
Horsham (Vic.) Star makes something
out of “Nhill,” the cryptic name of the Western
Vic. townlet. The men of the overland-to-
Adelaide gold escort called its principal high
ground, upon which Nhill station homestead lies,
the Northern Hill; and as they were generally in
a hurry, they got to contract this to N. HilL
Somebody one day annihilated the fly-speck, and
Nhill was thrust upon the world.
“ 8.5.” ; For brutality the “ horse-
tread er ” thresher takes the palm. When the
glass is at 110 in the shade, picture the state
of horses working these truly infernal machines.
While I was looking at one of these
abominations in operation lately, a
horse dropped dead, and the owner
cursed horribly because it had n’t
lived to finish the season. “I’ve
had a horse,” he said, “ that lasted
seven years at the work, and this
hasn’t lasted four.” The
wonder is that a horse can last
one season at it. Like the tread-
mill, the horse-treader should be
legislatively abolished because of its
cruelty.
“ Jaybell” makes these dreadful charges :
My sympathy with jackasses is small. Have been
acquainted with jacky in various parts of Queensland for
a number of years, and long since arrived at the con-
clusion that he hasn’t even fine feathers to recommend
him. Never knew him to kill a snake, and haven t yet
happened on anyone who ever witnessed a jacky and ser-
pent contest. Jacky pounces on dead snakes—doubtless
attracted by the aroma ; and he makes no end of fuss,
when escorting a corpse to his stronghold, for he is a. great-
believer in free advertisement, and a past-master in the
art of gulling his public. But, as a matter of truth, jacky
is a mean, inglorious brown-and-white slayer of helpless
innocents. With the pomp of a bloated landlord he calls
round to the nests of weaker bush birdies, making kind
inquiries as to dear papa’s whereabouts. Satisfied that
the old man is away from home, jacky doesn’t scruple to
insult the lone female, and gradually bullies her into hys-
terics ; after which he pitches her out of the nest and
dines on her hapless offspring. Dad returns unexpected y
sometimes, though, when jacky either makes off hurriedly
to slay a dead snake, or remains to offer foolish explana-
tions. In the latter event he’s usually sorry he stayed,
for he isn’t a- good lieir, and the absence of ring in his-
smile bespeaks his guilt. Ever on the hunt for small fry,
jacky has become a nuisance to the chicken-raiser, and
when the guffawing bully engages apartments in the
vicinity of the bush fowl-run, it’s a mighty poor prospect
for the chickens. Most country housewives would bang
him against Vesuvius, if they could only catch him, and
that volcano wasn’t so far away.
“Bull Joe”: Have never eaten goanna
myself ; but have known old fishermen live on it
and native cat for weeks. Have long used baked
goanna for bait, and find that schnapper will go
tor it when they won’t loolc at anything else. The
“go.” is easily got by placing a smashed egg in
the scrub and waiting close handy with a stick.
« * * *
“ Rap ” : Haven’t seen kangaroo-rat men-
tioned as furnishing a choice bush-“meat.” Its
flesh is white and indistinguishable from rabbit in
taste; but I find other marsupial flesh nauseous,
unless minced. Many old bushmen (like the
blacks) think the white wood-grub a delicacy, and
some people with depraved stomachs will even eat
ants. By the way, I once saw a “man,” fora
wager, chew up a live mouse !
* * * *
“D.H.R.” : What is the longest distance
covered by an amateur bike-rider in one day ?
Knew a man once who travelled from Walgett,
through Narrabri, to Bingara, via Rocky Creek,
Without getting off the machine —a distance of
some 270 miles. It occupied him about 22 hours,
and was done in a case of serious illness. The
tn vn could not walk next day. A bike rider once
went through from Walgett to Narrabri (125 miles)
in a day. lie had a fair swag up, and a side wind
0:1 for half the day ; and the roads were not
exactly perfect. Know any number of riders who
do 100 and 105, with swags up, every day on good
mountain roads.
* * * *
“A.P.R.”: Notable amongst the flora of
the plains is the “roly-poly” plant. In spring, it
is a dense, upright growth, usually about 3ft.
high. In the summer heat, it quickly dies, and,
snapping off at the root, starts on its career as a
vegetable sundowner. Every breeze takes an
interminable battalion of roly-polies dancing over
the plains. Hill-bred horses often become uncon-
trollable on first seeing this moving mass of vege-
tation. Every fence becomes heaped to the top
wire with an embankment of these plants. When
a whirlwind arises great black masses of them are
carried 20ft. or 30ft. up in the air, making a
curious spectacle on the treeless plains.
* * * *
“Xerxes” : Be scarcity offish out-back.
From the Lachlan (upper part), Belubula, and
Abercrombie Rivers, perch, yellow-bellies, anti
bream have almost disappeared. Cod are scarce,
but catfish have increased, and carp are abundant.
Experts say that the introduction of the carp has
been the sole cause of the trouble, though they
don’t explain how. In three trips on the rivers
mentioned I caught six cod, 17 carp, and five cat-
fish, but no bream, perch, or yellow-belly, len
years ago the last-mentioned fish abounded below
Wagga.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) ivill be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address mast appear on NS. No liability is undei-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
For Aus : “ The B. ought to leave off girding at
the contingenter, who, poor devil, is down.” It will leave
oS the moment the other crowd leaves off erecting monu-
ments to him A.J. : “Scent of soft arms of the
Kanaka girl, who anoints herself with cocoa-nut oil?
Ugh !... . D.R.M. : Morant has been dead too long for
obituary verses now... . T.G. : Too much domestic felicity ,
too much poetic infelicity.... Echo: And not very good
even at that... .H.H. : Poem worse than the sausages....
M.F. : “On Conversation” too stiff in the joints....
J. A.C. : The man travelled on the 14th inst. and couldn t
pay his fare, and asked the State to trust him for a day.
By the 18th he hadn’t paid, and the State started to
worry him by letter and visit, and worried him until he
did pay. It’s'the best testimonial of merit we have heard
of Mr. J. lvneeshaw, superintendent of tramways, the
responsible officer. And the man complains of red-tape !
He was as a matter of fact, treated with three days too
much consideration. If all State departments were to
worry over the money in the same way this would be a
much more prosperous country R. : Why is The Bul-
letin unfriendly to the importer? Consider a list of the
shocking- things imported sometime or other from some-
where into Australia—the rabbit, the thistle, the gorse,
the blackberry, the briar, the borrowing habit, the
“haw” accent, the starling, the sparrow, the China-
man, the codlin moth, the pear-slug, the black-spot,
the colored hawker, the thorn-hedge, the war-lec-
turer, the apple - scale, the colored Xmas picture
made in Germany—and a hundred other horrors. ...
G.E.TS. : But the Arbitration Act wasn’t passed specially
in the interests of employers or employees, but for the
well-being of the community. The Arbitration Court is
the community’s court—the court of the million who had
got tired of being bumped between two contend-
fn„- parties, never numbering more than a handful at
a time ... R.G.W. : You’ve tackled too big a contract....
J ■ W. M. Hughes was author of the amendment in the
Commonwealth Postal Bill which disqualifies black labor
on subsidised mailboats.... M. Jonas: A “constant
reader ” all those years, and yet you couldn t see that the
Roth article was all satire! G.R.H. : Nineteen tired
classical images falling wearily over six fatigued stanzas.
Barak : Fiat E.F.C. : About as much interest as a
loose brick in the Great Wall of China —that, is, if it ueie
a very small yellow brick, loose a very long time ag0....
Kettledrum : Sentiment too thin ; put more whisky in
vour gruel H.O. : You invoke the tremendous March
3,7 in the mild voice of a gentleman oyster asking a lady
oyster if her shell leaks.. ..Dutch Pink : Quite impossible
,to notice pars, in this column. One sporting item of
Amours in this batch good enough. Theatrical pars., as a
rule, too small in interest and top long. .. .M.l.p. .
Hardly well enough done A.11.T. : Dull—. Political
Poetaster: Fortunately for Australia your politics are
Better than your poetry.... Satsuma.... Sorry no use to
Bulletin Drifter: “ Message from the Muse would
he hardly advisable... .The Carrier: One passes; other
ifcoo lono- Ponte :It wouldn’t be wise .to take Professor
David “on “White Australia ” seriously. The gentle
geologist was obviously setting himself out to_be humor-
ous. Besides, a University professor is entitled to Rave
and to air his opinions on such matters, whether right or
wrong The essential of a university is to promote free
discussion of problems.... Gilgi : Not meat enough on
its bones....Hamer: “Possibilities” rather weak and
pointless ...Orphan: Ends well, but the lead-up is
commonplace... .J. Connors : Has some spirit, but is too
crude..;.Gordon B. : Easy-going mediocrity. E.S.S.:
“Back-Street” too unequal Clem de L. : All have
merit, but too roughly done Leslie B. : Good scenery ;
but we have little room for ex-Australian scenery....
Robert H. : “ Dook ” follows a line we’ve had too much of
lately C.F.H. : Stale... .P.A.C. : Excellent sentiments
of other poets laboriously beaten out into long verses....
J.C.E. : There’s no attempt at wit, only at candor....
J. : Put it in a pointed par instead of a slipshod poem....
Milky: Yes, will observe A.M.S. : (1) Bv Kipling. (2)
Don’t recollect the title of the poem, but the quatrain
came to public notoriety by being used as a tag to a
picture which was supposed to libel a popular actress....
Kaloonga: All too thin, except one. What would
interest Kalgoorlie doesn’t necessarily interest Austialia.
....Janor: Yes; we pay for suggestions, if used. Not
enough in item sent....H.E.R. : “Ingratitude is
fantastic and far-fetched... .Astrades : No atmosphere
about it.... J.A.H.: Not worth print... .Sydney r. :
Capital material unskilfully dealt with....M. larnell.
Several obscene and none original. The old decayed joke
that was dirty enough to warrant burial at its birth has
no attractions here... .11.11. : Obviously real, but doesn t
call for print Rosewood : Silvery Light hasn t a
gleam Jav Tee : You’ll never wear the bay leaves.. ..
A E.K. (Canada): Thanks for cuttings. What Dr. Monta-
gue (of the 1.0. F.) can say about Australia won t
worry this continent Caxton : (1) Whilst we
believe in taxing the snips type of imported periodical,
don’t think it is a fact that the maga. importersi try to
prejudice the sale of Australian publications. ("-) 1110
change in the mail service will not, we fear, make any
difference. Of most of the weekly imported lines the
warehouses keep a few issues always in hand... .u.w. .
That a barmaid you know can talk about Cicero is an in-
teresting fact, but it really has nothing to do with the
question of the abolition of her cpjling.... The Under-
signed: Not enough body in it.... w.G.L.U. : (d/ 1
ment is from £1 a short column upwards ; (2) yes, plenty,
for good stuff.... E.V.P. : No finish about it.. ..Unsuit-
able : J. New, F.H.8., Koinai, G.H.R., A.P.R., F.H.R.,
Evian, J.P.R., Laura.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Jong Shoo : (1) Thanks ; passed on to Hop. ; (2) '
glad of suggestions, which arc paid for if used.... Biox .
Drawings far too crude to allow of even judging whether
they show any promise W.11.V. : A good way to g
yet to acceptance point C.T.S. : One too b.ushful,
others not good enough J.E.P. : May serve as sug-
gestion, in which case payment will be sent.
E. Cooper :No hope... .K. Sun : One accepted, but can t
take photograph of the wife, even though she is a
remarkably pretty wife. We’d have to print JJ4 photos
a week if we started that game.... Sweet 1» : Not up to
the mark by a long way yet... M. and E. (Perth). 1 hoto
good, but subject treated before... .Unsuitable . C.J.,
D.T., Windas, Kip, P.O'S., Weerman, B.MK., S.W.,
R.W.P., Wedd, E.M.0., 11.F.T., Fred 0., H.G.
HACKENSCHMIDT and his Australian pupil,
Clarence Weber, wrestling catch-as-catch-can
style.
“ H.H.P.” tells of a close call among the
Islands.: —
The first watch (in which I worked) had gone below,
leaving- all sails drawing to a good wind, with nothing to
indicate any change for the next twelve hours. At seven
bells, however, those of us in bunks to wind ard suddenly
found ourselves sprawling on the fo’c’s’le deck, while a
voice bellowed through the hatch —“ All hands aloft,
shorten sail—and look slippy; she’s turning
turtle ’! ” We looked “ slippy,” and tumbled up quick
and lively. We knew our stations, and, as the ship s
lightweight, I shinned to the royal. Half-choked with
the gale and salt-spray, I reached the yard. Meanwhile
the vessel had paid-off a trifle, and was righting herself,
but the strain on the sticks was so great that the shrouds
and stays hummed like ’cello strings, easily heard amidst
the roar of the wind and swish-swish of the falling tor-
rents of rain. Everything had, of course, been let go at
the first go-off, and I took in my weather earring to the
bunt easy enough, and then lay-out to leeward to handle
the other part. Just at the moment when I was neither
holding on to anything nor bearing my weight on the
Jootrope—merely balancing on my bingy across the spar,
breaking my unfortunate nails clawing in the bellying
wet canvas —a sudden wind-shift brought the whole
caboodle right aback, a tactical movement that somer-
saulted me head-foremost over the yard. The necessary
miracle occurred. As I went over, the slack foot-rope
came, and in kicking round on general principles my
foot got into the bight and stopped there. There I hung
for a second or two, until I was able to haul myself up.


“Hop has the following yarn ujton
high authority, who. vouches for ii as a
“true bill..' Now true bills are not
always necessarily ’funny’ but well, here
goes. . ’
* O
It Hjipcar.s dial (km. Ileid bn j’.•. o.ijl.jv
lakctl uji t|twr|i'.rs in a rant jjal w it t “nil
lltr* .!iH)(le.t‘{i in*Jiljs ' im;iud.'ht; a
bath, -which (k'Ul'gn was not |sm; j:t rind
lug out, being ft■ t:Seat* man jiei'.soiusMv
London,- Thursday. The Daily t.'rnu>.VK‘i,r. :t» ' I
Japan will stipulate in a&y negotiation- £<>r :«»|
muenmity of ,£100,000,000,
London-, Thursday. Then- June been met .
200,000 liritisii appiSeatiojis for tlx.- Japane-.-
loan, which is being raised- in liOttThin with
New York £20,000,000 in -i! per jfciif*..’
underwritten at X'JQ
«!■* "».- Mm. re,., an
m 1 * tiid ‘wTln-r found him -if
fftf < i«- <‘.mhint ,« !
‘in i4p to turn water of!'
ll' d' l I my,' ijuoj.h the
tenant on the next bat tx-low
! ‘'loi. • i . a leak . i. 4 >jrir*
' istid then rushed oil'
to iind i b<- . ikcr.
TICKY Mo: “ Veil, seaiug you are friend and ally, 1 vtl! lend you ■ em-diny
on z%t shkin- tneinUptl ! J never ..dtw a finer ' fa ;:udifahy marked '
I sir’d like to pay it pudt.iiiid put.U.
Plague ; “ Are you making any stay in
Australia ? ”
Dengue : “That depends. If I take on
as well as you have, I’ll settle here
permanently. They seem to take
kindly to Asiatics Lore '?”
The trouble was traced to its source
fttal it took jour strong men ti cxir;u-t
tbo bailuy from his tub. <h.-or<y has
a'tmi- been measured by a. plumber for a.
tsuik that will be up to ids size.
TALE OF A TUB. AND OTHER UNPLEASANTNESSES.


V &ent been
■fcyJ'nTot
pJ2u«t« L'*s“ r r f°™>
f 0 educate f>«T« to
{'% hr S° c,AllS,n
■llje
flection
" A Keci|>*'oC*J Victin*, vi'JJf' repArd %
J?e»$ions \jzp bee*i by Premier.
%< is f|?« tnotf' 'fixture op eur
Vi tfSri\r» pension sys 1e»n — J)ot>s H 5
'fo reciprocate it ? ”
Will hr)A<e a.
Curious election cry •
S\r s J S
(a mc^
h ,n l
on y h's
6cr>T Inspecting
I "tell you %ere is n» 5"? ell!
The Deputation ~
'Jouv fast tr&in'np dees nof
it' |"o»' you To detect' brnc./l .
A
Very
| n^ioK'
My
~for>-> 80.
-tfje Conner, rof rfe
o n
TuescU-j
A *>ry
•fwo h oor%
jkf l ) p^*-
Tierce CbtrM*, oj'
britX jobber *
' V/e duinT" pul" you
1 in +o SVe 'ttje.
s,laTes vn on «Y' Te>
iwTo oi»r pocKers,, /I
IsiHwl
ro i
•• >!
TFje it' IS IS
wljollv undtl' *Ke inflate.
°f Jolin*
spends fyoors
} <K Spying
Selected \>reyer<,.
I
0. ,
forth,
forth /.
JSU-J,
Jt* IS s^ wtat*
we. cv J>nf ofa
Ylhdf~ we cV» Survive \vl7en
We hVe to ” _ R e ,d
*• C(lbd "fZ See y oiA
IOOK on j’ul'iAre.
So rrjucij Cdjrnne^^
S' - .
C ouleih't' yei-
\ c4««-K »rj one Y
A cor TV" .
'And Wiry ve Jot* o©mp "I'o S«th oufUnttislj |>U<i &v
twites lsl*»»4 fflr 15t' l l|oli<lJkYS > FfrO'iiOo ? ”
" 0«c **>*«. "tijey g« r v 'S‘fe<l «>ncc a ye&»- fc no v*v news f
BENT, BRICES, BRAINS, &c.


A. SAUNDERS FOR WEDDING PRESENTS
SUITABLE
SUGGESTIONS IN
TABLE SILVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral Dalton China
BISCUIT BARREL, 20s.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, J7s 6d,
22s 6d, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Cut Glass, 20s.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRICE LIST FOR SPOONS AND FORKS.
A QUALITY.
Table Spoons, 20s Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 20s Half-Doz.
Table Spoons, 15s Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 15s Half-Doz.
Tea Spoons, 10s Ilalf-Doz.
B QUALITY.
Table Spoons, 12s 6d Ilalf-Doz.
Table Forks, 12s 6d Ha,.-Doz.
Table Spoons, 10s Od Ilalf-Doz.
Table Forks, 10s 6d Ilalf-Doz.
Tea Spoons, Os 6d Ilalf-Doz.
C QUALITY.
Table Spoons. 10s 6d llalf-Doz.
Table Forks, 10s 6d llalf-Doz.
Table Spoons, 7s Od Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 7s Od llalf-Doz.
Tea Spoons, os llalf-Doz.
IN THREE DESIGNS—FIDDLE, OLD ENGLISH. AND KING.
Our Spoons and Forks are well made and beautifully finished
They are absolutely the best made in England, and will wear a lifetime.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
Rainbow Glass, 20s.
Other Styles, 8s Gd, 10s GJ.
12s Gd, 15s, 17s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Corintli.an Column
CANDLESTICK,
Lure Silver-Elated,
bin. high,lss Od each.
Other Styles,
8s 6d, Its, 12s 6d,
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD AND WAITER Combined, Pure Silver-
Plated on Nickel Silver, with KNIFE to Match,
£2 10s. Other Styles, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, £2 ss, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
HONEY JAR, Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Glass, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d.
Our Catalogue
Contains over 1500
Illustrations o£
Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery, Silver-Plate,
Purses, and Optical Goods,
Write for it now.
We send it to any Address
In Australia
Post Free.
PRESENTATION
Bottles, Pure
17s 6d, 255, 30s
A. SAUNDERS. ,
DOUBLE INKSTAND, Cut, Glass
Silver-Plated, £2 5s Other Styles,
, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt BEDROOM CLOCK,
Splendid Timelceper, 20s.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d, 255.
Our Prices
Consistent with the
Best Quality,
are Low. Why?
As Direct Importers
and large Cash Buyers,
We sell direct to
Our Customers,
Thus saving them all
Middlemen’s Profits.
Are the Lowest
Wingfield RowbothamaC*
ms
A. SAUNDERS.
SET OF CARVERS, Best Sheffield Silver Steel,
Hand Finished, Securely Riveted Handles,
27s Gd.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Pure Silver-Plated
llin. Oval, Special Value, £2 ss.
£3 ss, £3 10s.
on Nickel Silver,
Other Styles, £3
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure
Silver Plated,
Handsomely Engraved, 253.
Other Styles, 16s 6d, 20s.
30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
pure Silver-Plated AFTERNOON TEA
A.ND TONGS, Fancy Embossed Handles
Solid Silver, 30s, 355, 40s.
SPOONS
, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS. .. _
„ -‘jg.ssr sw ,5 srsvs
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA STAND, Pure Silver-Plated,
Handsomely Embossed,
Cake Basket, Sugar and Cream Combined, £3
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER OR MILK JUG,
Pure Silver-Plated, 355.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR CUP EGG FRAME, Pure Silver-Plated,
Beautifully Fluted, £2 10s.
Other Styles, 21s, 255, 30s, 355.
w
WM'A
WA
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR BOTTLE LUNCH OR DINNER
CRUET, Pure Silver-Plated, 255.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 21s, 255, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE OR FRUIT BASKET, Pure Silver-Plated on
Nickel Silver, £2 ss. Other Styles, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-Plated,
din. high, in Four Styles,
wWimTOTWII
ass
irf - *"
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTERDISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
on Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s.
SfONSY
MH
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver-Mounted CUT GLASS
SALTS AND SPOONS,
in Silk-Lined Case, 12s 6d.
Heart Shaped, 13s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK Pure Silver-Plated,
Leaf Design, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG AND TOAST RACK
COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-Plated, 255.
rfftg;
wa
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Glass FLOWER EPERGNE,
Pure Silver-Plated Base, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £2, £2 ss, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
KNIFE RESTS, Cut Glass,
Pure Silver Mounts, 12s 6d.
Larger, 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR CUP EGG FRAME AND
SPOONS.
Pure Silver-Plated, 21s.
Other Styles, 255, 30s.
BUTTER AND TOAST COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Glass Lining, 15s 6d.
w
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POT, Pure Silver-Plated,
Hand Engraved, £2.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 21s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY S LEADING JEWELLED,
SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opposite
RAILWAY
STATION.


m
m
42^'-.^
- X i
W i-1
K
i
!
.
s®
25
pm!
SWgSg
ft"
22
- ■■
rags'
W
:^9Hk
as»
I.- - ‘
: !.“•>• -riSSi
? *"
v...
26
fj
'•
■ . ;«? . ■■ - .•/,-. '.
- '
Mi
■
pm
28
m
MvM
■ U
BUCKLEY & NUNN,
HfIELBOUFtME.
RENOWNED HOUSE FOR
LADIES’ GLOVES.
No. 24.—Glace Mosquetaire Kid, with three pearl buttons at wrist, 12 button length, ss. 9d. , 16 button
length, 6s. 9J., in white only.
No. 26.— I The “Special” Chevrette Kid, pique sewn, with three seam cord points, in slate, brown, beaver,
pastel, black, etc., ss. Sd. pair. Made in England. We consider this glove has
no equal tor comfort, fit and durability.
No. 25. —Mosquetaire Suede, with 3 Pearl Buttons at wrist, in all shades, 6s. Gdm to 11s. 6dm
No. 27.—Mosquetaire Glace Kid, with 3 Pearl Buttons at wrist; 8 button length, 7s. 9d . ;10 button
length, Ss. 9d. ; 12 button length, 9s. 9d. The glove will clean better than any
other make, owing to an improved mode of treating the leather.
Quote number and state size. We can post to any address in Australasia.
No. 2S. —French Kid, with 2 or 4 Buttons, in white, beaver, pastel, etc., with black or self cord points,
2s. lid. pair. A reliable glove ; can be recommended;
No. 22.—“ Varna ” French Kid, with 4 Buttons or Dome Fasteners, may be had in all shades, with self or
black cord points, 3s. 9d. pair, or three pairs for IDs. Sd. It is impossible to
speak too highly of this glove, the merits of which we have already proved.
No. 30. —“ Myretta ” French Kid, an exquisite glove, perfect fitting, in white, pearl, pastel, beaver, etc.,
with white or black cord points, ss. pair, or three pairs for 14s. 6d. Each pair
guaranteed.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching,'Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases, in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of all chemists. PARIS MEDICINE CO., Temple
Chambers, London, E.C. England.*
Griffith and Allen, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne —(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, or
Melbourne.*
GO TO HEX.L-
-IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, bu*
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists grgfls.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Another instance of what Bent would call
Federal “extravagance” ! Instead of forwarding
Australia’s naval contribution to London through
the banks, as the economical States always did,
Treasurer Turner is going to pay it to the Imperial
storekeeper in Sydney (who will use most of it,
instead of getting his funds from London), thus
saving £lOOO a year.
W.A. Government’s recent determina-
tion to refuse to issue wood-carters’ or wood-
cutters’ licenses to Asiatics, whether British
subjects or not, after 31st March, is having
a good effect in moving local government
bodies to grapple with the Asiatic pest.
Morgans Municipal Council has decided
to refuse licenses to Indian
hawkers.
THE FED ERA LI SING OF THE STATE DEBTS.
GAO. TURNER : “ Say, you State-chaps, you had better chuck your sways into my cart. We’re
all going the same way."
Anti-Socialist Latimer, M.L.A., has been
asking the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners to
reduce the fare to Rose Bay by a penny, on the
ground that the first section, mainly in conse-
quence of the King-street traffic, pays the loss
incurred on the rest of the line. Such reasoning
might prevail from a socialistic standpoint;
coming from a professed individualist, it is utterly
irrelevant.
Mr. J. Havelock Wilson, secretary of the
British Seamen’s Union, writes to Mr. Sam Smith
here (the letter is published in full in Sydney
Worker, 25/3/’O5): —
I have for some time been watching very closely the
movements of the big shipping companies with regard to
the contracts for carrying the mails, and it is quite evi-
dent there is an understanding between the P. and O. and
the Orient lines to try to force the hands of the Federal
Parliament if possible.
And that, probably, is the milk in the cocoa-nut
of the mail subsidy trouble.
The “dead finish” of Victorian scandals
in regard to old age pensions ! The Bent Govern-
ment has claimed from a widow in receipt of the
dole, a share of the funeral benefit she got from a
friendly society when her husband died !
The Freetrade press still howls miserably
over the Tariff Commission. That body is bring-
ing to light facts about industrial matters, and
there is nothing the Freetrader has such a horror
of as a fact.
Butler, Jenkins’ successor, made his first
public speech as Premier of S.A. at a dinner the
other night, and did much better than Jenkins
would have done in his latter days, rubbing in
facts that disagreed violently with the large quan-
tity of National Ass present. He emphasised the
necessity for more land taxation, showed that
local road-grants were twice as much as the local
taxation received, and generally brought some
hope back to the Liberal camp, which is nowa-
days a very thin camp indeed.
It must have been gall and wormwood to
Melbourne Argus to publish, recently, the official
explanation of the reason why agricultural imple-
ments from America and Canada, when passed
through the Australian Customs, are valued at a
lower rate than similar articles sent to Argentina.
The latter country puts no duty on these, where-
fore (vide Argus 27/3/05) “the companies value
their manufactures at the highest figure they can
obtain from the farmer in that country, while
Australian shipments are invoiced at their proper
value for duty-payment purposes. - ’ So the policy
of Freetrade encourages the foreign manufacturer
to plunder the farmer !
Victorian Fats’ latest effort at organisa-
tion is the “National Democratic Party.”
Since the days when Labor first organised, how
many abortive associations has Fat promoted ?
All impudently labelled themselves “National,”
“Liberal,” or “Democratic,” from the primal
National Ass. By the way, what has become of
Deakin’s National Liberal Association, launched
at last Federal elections ?
Bent’s new organisation is the “National
Democratic Party.” Notice how the word
“national” is being dragged in the Tory show
in Australia. Nearly every political association
that has had “national” tagged to it has been
worthy of the contempt of the Australian people.
And just as the term “ Liberal ” has gone over to
the enemy, “Democratic” is going. This is how
Conservatism comes to terms with the people.
Melb. Age is once more agitating strongly
for the abolition of Hansard and the handing
over of the work to private enterprise —say, to the
Age. This agitation has been going on for two or
three years now. The Age desires the job, firstly,
because it will be a paying one ; and, secondly,
the publication of full reports may win back
Labor subscribers who have tired of the paper’s
wriggling tactics. A year or two ago, it is said,
the Age went so far as to submit a tender for the
job, but, as the price named was greater than the
present cost of Hansard, no business resulted.
When two Maori shearers were refused a
landing in Australia lately because they
didn’t pass the education test, Sydney
daily paperdom waxed two or three
columns degree furious. When a
white Australian was curtly returned
from M.L., a few days later, how-
ever, the fact was only given casual
mention in a three-inch par. Ac-
cording to Australia’s press, Aus-
tralians can only insult, not be
insulted.
“ War E. ”: The latest old-age-pension appli-
cation-form demands full particulars of the birth,
marriage and death of the applicant’s parents.
Now, what has an applicant’s ancestry got to do
with his claims to a pension ?
The policy of Bent’s abortive “National
Democratic Party” was a humorous “Yes-No.”
Some of the items :
To promote water conservation and irrigation.
To make the Shops and Factories Acts permanent, with
an alteration in regard to improvers, so as to ensure them
a better technical education.
To assist decentralisation.
To promote agricultural education.
To oppose Socialism in every possible way.
Eour courses of Socialism and then a resolve to
abjure the accursed thing !
When they have time, those anomalies—
Freetrade Laborites—who fight for Arbitration
Acts and minimum wage laws, might ponder this
axiomatic fact: So long as Australia refuses to
protect her workers against the cheap labor of
Europe and elsewhere, the Australian workers’
wages are fixed, indirectly but absolutely, by
those foreign countries. If Australia is fool
enough to put her workers in any particular
tradq in open competition with, say, Japan, then
the Jap, not the Victorian or any other Parlia-
ment, ultimately fixes the wage the Australian
will get. If the latter declines to accept it he
doesn’t get the work, that’s all.
NOT BANTING.
STOWT: “I lost five pounds last week."
FATT: “ And I lost ten."
BOTH TOGETHER: “Ha! I know you. It was at
Randwick! ”
Sydney D.T. (29/3/’O5), commenting on
the £17,000,000 increase of Australian exports
over imports since the establishment of the Com-
monwealth, remarks :
The Protectionist will say this is a grand result of the
Commonwealth tariff. But its real significance is that we
are sending home capital at a rate we never did before,
and if there were a spirit of enterprise here, we should
not send it home. We should import more goods.
A re-hash of the old, unpatriotic doctrine that it
is a mistake under any circumstances to pay our
debts while it is still possible to get deeper into
foreign pawn.
Sydney D.T. (29/3/’O5) :
As for the misapprehensions about Australia which Dr.
Mackellar reports, whatever their extent may be, the
blame is proportionately due to the numerous repre-
sentatives the country, has in Great Britain. To see that
Australia is not misrepresented is their business.
Most of the misapprehensions Dr. Mackellar com-
bated were repetitions of the charges made by the
D.T. and other “ stinking fish ” organs. Humor-
ous to find the D.T. now calling on Australia’s
representatives in Britain to defend Australia
from charges and imputations which are, in the
main, its own charges and imputations.
English papers are telling of what happens
to the country that allows labor to be imported
under contract. An Italian brought men from
Italy under indentures, and they were put to
work as carmen and porters. One who sued the
labor-importer at Westminster County Court had
received 465. for three years’ work ! The padrone
admitted that the man “might have had to get
up at 3 a.m.” That’s the sort of immigration
Australia would get if it abolished its Restriction
Act. Then how free immigrants would rush us—
to get rich by competing with men under contract
to work for 15s. or so per annum and their keep !
The newspapers that want to get rid of
the N.S.W. Arbitration Act wept over a
unionist who, the other day, was brought up
in custody for refusing to obey an order to
pay up his union dues. “In the early
future,” the S.M. Herald said, “there
are likely to be unionists in plenty
who will have nothing but condemna-
tion for the measure. ”, In other words,
the Herald is finding out that the
yarn it has been telling all along, that
the Act was passed simply in the
interests of unionists, was all flam.
The Herald and others have been raging
because, they said, you can’t compel
unionists to obey an award ; now they
are discovering that the law can and does
compel unionists to give security that they
will obey awards.
English Local Government Board, on Feb.
22, presented the Commons with figures showing
that every 40th person in England and Wales is
supported by the rates, and in London every 36th.
What a magnificent testimonial to Preetrade !
Yic. Premier Bent had an attack of
straightforwardness, the other day. He had
struck the usual farmers’ deputation, whose spokes-
man casually asked that the Govt, rabbit-inspectors
might put in their time mixing phosphorised pol-
lard. Spake Thomas: “Then you are a regular
Socialist.” “ Pardon me, Mr. Premier,” came the
reply in icy tones, “Pm not quite a Socialist.”
Bent faced round and pushed his glasses up. “If
the rabbit-inspectors are to do the work for far-
mers that is Socialism.” Mr. Bent got home there.
One of the paid women agitators of the
Tory crowd in Yic. has a habit of assuring her
audience, in awe-struck whispers, that, on account
of labor iniquities in general and the Immigration
Act in particular, “the danger is now, not that
Australia may separate from England, but that
England may cast Australia off.” Usually it goes
down well. But at one Vic. country town, the
impressive pause after the awful statement was
broken by the local doctor, who calmly enquired
what, precisely, would happen if that did happen.
The chairman looked enquiringly at the lecturess,
and the lecturess whispered to the chairman ;
whereupon he rose and said that interjections
were distinctly out of order.
Judging by the statements now being put
forth, chiefly through Melbourne Age, against
Bent’s Closer Settlement Act, that Act was built
better than some people knew. Chiefly, the out-
cry is being made against:—
(1) The clause compelling residence for eight months in
the year, as this doesn’t allow a landholder to take up
more than one block.
(2) The prohibition against transferring a mortgage or
sub-letting within the first six years of the lease.
(S) The prohibition of any lessee holding more than
£l5OO worth of land or selling his block to anyone already
holding land of that value.
Judging by the present outcry, there seems to be
more dummyism than genuine settlement about
the “back to the land” cry.
When Premier Carru-
thers recently announced his •
intention of raising the wind
by borrowing in the State
instead of abroad, both
Herald and Telegraph
protested. One argument in-
sisted on was that if the
money required by the
Government is withdrawn
from the banks, those hard-
up institutions will have to
raise their deposit rates, and
consequently their rate of
interest on advances. This,
moaned the two dailies, will
tell on the struggling farmer,
the struggling settler, and
the struggling dairyman, who
must run to the banks for
accommodation. This con-
sideration for the poor farmer
is very touching, seeing it is •
only a few months ago that
the Carruthers Government
was savagely denounced by
the same papers for its State
Land Bank measure, which
proposed to assist farmers and
settlers with cheap money.
A deputation interviewed
M.L. Premier Seddon upon the
Shops and Offices Act the other day, and
one was a tailor. “What percentage of the
working men wear tailor - made clothes ?
asked the Premier. “Ninety per cent.,” replied
the tailor. “Since the Liberal Government has
placed the working men in such a good position
with regard to wages, they like to dress as well as
the Premier or anyone else.” Then Mr. Seddon :
“This announcement is very pleasing to me.”
And well it might be.
The position as regards Premier Bent
just now is mostly bricks. The Labor party will
throw one as soon as it can do so with fatal effect,
while Thomas’s own supporters will simply bury
him under those articles if he doesn’t drop his
State Brickyard proposal. The meeting to float
Bent s National Democratic party was a riotous
circumstance. Bent’s followers objected to be
called Democrats, to his blunders, and to his
threats to stop adulteration, and when someone
mentioned “ bricks,” the whole gang went off pop.
They could manage to suffer all else, even the
indignity of being called Democrats, but to inter-
fere with Patman’s inherent right to “combine ’
to sweat the public—that was too much. The
row finally became so strenuous that Thomas got
up. full of it, and threatened to send in his resigna-
tion there and then. The Tories then realised
that they had absolutely no one to take his place,
and calmed down, while Iceberg Irvine poured oil
over everybody.
At Mount Morgan, Q. Home-Sec. Airey
has condemned the inefficient, cadging system of
voluntary subscriptions for the support of
hospitals, and hinted at a better and more regular
one. Some reform is urgently
needed. A scandalous propor-
tion of the charity devoted to
hospitals nowadays is diverted
into the pockets of collectors,
and a good deal into the
pockets of swindlers. Direct-
State support and control of
hospitals is the proper remedy.
A SOBER FACT.
THE GUEST: “ Without doubt the butter is very
old. See how white is this hair which I have
just pulled off it.”
Mr. Robert Anderson, giving evidence
before the Tariff Commission, Melbourne (28/3/’O5),
stated that Australian manufacturers of hessian
bags—now imported into the Commonwealth at a
10 per cent, duty—are obliged to compete with the
girl-coolie labor of Calcutta, v/ here 12 girls could be
employed for what would be paid to one in
Australia; 7,000,000 bran-bags were imported
into Australia last year, all of which could have
been made here !
SPLENDID ENGLAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In the schools of Great Britain there are 1,000,000
underfed pupils.”— Cable.
Teach the children England's splendor,—
It should stay their pangs awhile, —
Spread a map before their starved eyes,
And their bloodless lips will smile.
Show them ships upon the ocean—
Half the continents marked red—
Tell them tales of England’s-progress,
And they will not crave for bread.
Tell them this —How Boers were butchered,
Soldiers heaped in nameless graves—
That Park Lane’s Lord Fat, their master,
Might replace their sires with slaves.
Tell them how the miner hungered
For the right to vote, and say
How—the man’s right being given—
The man’s bread was snatched away.
iC Pile on color —say how England,
Great to war, and fight, and carve,
Fills the belly of the alien
While she lets her children starve.
Say the mud of all the nations,
And the filth of all the lands,
All the pauper-drift of Europe
She receives with open hands.
Say their fathers work for little,
But the aliens work for less,
And the aliens love their country,
And their laws the aliens bless.
Then, good sirs, the lesson finished—
On its wisdom let them pore ;
Being fed with talk of Freedom
They may cry for bread no more.
K.S.VV.
N.


Bandsmen
PALING'S
can supply any instrument
required trom a
CORNET
I
to a DRUM
and all other Brass ana
Wood Wind Instruments
in between.
Send for Catalogues,
Post Free.
PaHing’s,
333 George St.,
SYDNEY
RtOnisch
Pianos at
Paling'*s.
We are
sole ag'ents
for these
renowned
Pianos.
New and
artistic
models are
open for
your in*
spection.
Please call and see
them.
The Prices are right.
Catalogues Free.
Old Pianos taKen in
exchange.
***
Sole Agents—
Paling’s.
338 George St.,
Sydney.
Talking
Machines
at Paling’s.
We stock both kinds—
Disc and Cylinder Re-
cords.
*
Band Selections.
Songs by the world’s
leading artists.
Recitations Dy present
day orators.
Instrumental Selections
by the greatest soloists.
Our Disc Records are
Indestructible.
Reliable instruments at
Lowest Prices at
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
29
Hydatids on the Liver,
—
Another Victory for
VITADATIO
Oampaspe, Vio.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in giving- m,v testimony
fco the good quality and curing power of Webber’s VITA-
DATIO. Some two years ago I was taken ill; one doctor
said it was whooping cough. I was in bed for over a
month, and got weaker and weaker, until I went to
another doctor, who said it was hydatids on the liver.
The doctors ordered me to go under an operation, but I
did not care to for fear of chloroform, and on the next
day, when my mother was reading the paper, she came
across a testimonial from a person who had been cured of
a similar trouble to my own with VITADATIO, so I said I
would try some myself. I sent for a few bottles at once,
and commenced taking it, and I never felt better than I
am to-day, and do honestly believe that I would have
been dead long ago had I not resorted to VITADATIO. I
have taken ten bottles in all. lam increasing in weight
every month, and feel it is a pleasure to be alive. I was
waiting to see my cure was lasting before sending you a
testimonial, and will be pleased to give information to
anyone at any time. You may publish this as you think
fit.
Yours truly,
(Signed) ISABEL M. WASON,
Campaspe.
For further ‘particulars ,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: 431) Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
_ Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Missing- Friends.
EORGE KENNY BROWNE, formerly of
Clontarf, County Dublin, Ireland, and later
of the Cape, New South Wales, and Georgetown
(Q.), or any person acquainted with his present
address, is requested to communicate with the
undersigned at once. The person enquired for is
about 47 years of age, about sft. lOin. in height,
of good education—last heard of as at Emerald
(Q.), about four months ago.
A. G. Dopbleday, Solicitor, Georgetown, Q.
IF THOMAS JOHNSON SANDERSON,
son of Daac Sanderson, will communicate
with The Tkustees, Executors & Agency Co.,
Ltd., of 412 Collins Street, Melbourne, he will
hear of something to his advantage.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
9
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
‘ Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
The World’s Wonder.
5 BEAUTIFUL ARTICLES for
ONLY 7s. 6d., viz. :
1 Gentleman’s R. Gold Albert.
I Gentleman’s R. Gold Set
Links and Studs.
1 Lady’s R. Gold Muff Chain.
1 Lady’s R. Gold Bracelet.
1 Lady’s R. Gold Brooch.
This genuine parcel will be sent
POST FREE to any part of the
Colony on receipt of money or
postal order for 7s. 6d.
If not satisfied money will be returned.
This offer is only to advertise our firm.
THE BRITISH NOVELTY COY.,
Box 343, G.P.0., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Box 918, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
68
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. C. ELDBIDGE &c GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post.from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
Energy and Vigor.
Post Free.
OUR Electric Appliance
pcurs glowing, exhilar-
ating Vitality into you
while you sleep. It Animates
the sluggish circulation,
Stimulates the Brain to
Activity, and fills the body
with Life, Ambition, and
Endurance. It furnishes
the Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. Y ou rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Catalogue and Price List
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
A CRITIC
■
A recent English Critic of our customs expresses
astonishment at two things he finds in this country:
First, the general prosperity, as indicated by the large
number- of Australian homes containing pianos.
Second, the great proportion of these pianos which
are NEVER TOUCHED.
He wonders why so many people in Australia invest large sums
of money in something they cannot put to any practical use.
This condition the PIANOLA is doing much to remedy, for
with its aid the piano may be played even by those who are
unable to strike a single chord with the fingers.
Thirty years ago the piano itself was considered in the light
of a luxury. To-day no home is thought completely furnished
without it.
The same condition is rapidly coming to be true of the
Pianola. It is primarily an article of UTILITY. The music
that would otherwise remain locked up in the piano is made
immediately accessible.
It is so simple that With it anyone
can learn to play the Piano in
a half-hour’s practice.
Write for Catalog B, an Illustrated Booklet explaining
all about it, or call at our Warerooms. Informal
Recitals daily.
The Pianola may be purchased on terms if so desired.
The word “PIANOLA ” is Copyrighted, and the
Instrument is Patented. It is sold only by
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO
323 George Street, Sydney;
185 Collins Street, Melbourne;
311 Queen Street, Brisbane;
53 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
Sole Agents for the Famous “ BROADWOOD ” PIANOS.


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•Twin-Screw Steamer.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious .Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WTLLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
'—Tint—.
Colonial Mutual liife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mnlual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • • 105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. O. .1. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bbucb Smith, K. 0., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,814,795.
Policies issued 94,657 - assuring £28,394,068.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,267,019.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses - eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
<lO & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under t:ie Comp unite Act, 186 S.
Bankers to tho Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,213 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 42,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS. 12
Months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum. 2 Years
and over, at the rate of 4J per cent, per annum.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman; Hon. A. .T.
Callan, M.L.O. ; John Cameron, Esq., AI.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J Jjl HI I'l'KI), u
CAPITAL PAID-UP £157,539
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175.812
RESERVE FUND(lnvested in Government Stock) 64.00 C
£697,351
Head Office: BHISBANF.
Gen. Manager, Enwn. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCII LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents an' Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, Crsorge Street.
Four per cent. Stock guarantesd by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown l:i
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 600,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capita] ». ... £ ’,000.000
Tile Bank of [for^Quseii' land
LIMITED.
Sydney Offioe: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Cannt. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £709,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holder! ... ... 250 TOO ... £350.000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide. W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquhar. J. J, ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Writ« for Protpectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP A 90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND and UNDIVIDED
PROFITS (used in Company’s business) £15,122 8 1
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Managei
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
a
<2
For EDISON
PHONOGRAPHS
and RECORDS
WRITE TO . . .
Edison Phonograph Supply,
T. & C. BUILDINGS,
Swanston Street, Melbourne,
Next Town Hall.
Catalogues and Price Lists Post Free.
Shipping.
KT. 3D. L,
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYtt
Three-Weekly Mail Service
BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Steamer
•SEYDLITZ
OLDENBURG
GERA
P. R. LUITPOLD
Ade-
laide
2 p. m.
May 6
June 3
July 1
July 29
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA~Tnd JAPAN
?X DNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISP v.'TE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGK J KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
r£,M , I‘S u S,CISMUND> 3300 tons - 15th APRiL.
WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 13th MAY.
•PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 10th JUI E.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
Models
£2.f0t0£5,5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Kims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port in Australasia.
.Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres , Accessories, Sporting Goods &
Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO . Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO, U.S.A. and LIVE Ur 001, ENGLAND. -
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
MORAVIAN
SOPHOCLES
NINEVEH
A. Simpson
H. A. Schleman
A. Robb
Noon, April 15
Noon, May 6
Noon, May 27
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l(5 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Ticket* from £ll5.
SA LOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
T! 11l O-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
V;- iphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about
15th APRIL,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC,
and PERSIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 ft 0
New York, Ac. .. 25 2 6 to 30 2 6
Only Ona Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlet t, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
QCEA.NIC S.S. Co. -A.. and A.. X* X 3XT 23.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SIERRA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, APRIL 17.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, Ac., Ac.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS. SYDNEY.
TROPICAL TRIPS
THERE are, of course, several ways of spending
a Winter vacation ; but a cruise through the
Solomon Islands surpasses them all. Do you
know that you can make this voyage at a cost of
less than Ten Shillings per day ? a steamship of
1763 tons makes the voyage. Will you drop us a
postal for “HOLIDAY HINTS,” a new illus-
trated pamphlet?
BURNS, PHILP & GO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. ■„,!
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
BILLS
discounted.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
Thi* Company was formed to Suppress U ury.
uxr.s.’w.
fflontde pete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74: CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
TO THE MEMBERS OF
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Limited.
T ADIES AND GENTLEMEN, —I beg to intimate that I
intend, at the next annual meeting of the members,
on 31st May next, to offer myself as a Candidate for elec-
tion as a Director, and ask for your votes and influence
on that occasion.
I am one of the oldest members of the Society, and I
believe that my long and varied experience, gained in the
service of the Union Bank of Australia, Limited, in the
various States (for 10 years ending 1904 Manager of the
Melbourne Branch of that institution), will enable me to
further the interests of the Society and my fellow-
members.
I remain, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
GERALD T. BAKER.
South Yarra, 9/3/1805.
R
EYNOLDS’S
NEWSPAPER
FOR ARTICLES ON
Labor and Wages and Labor Disputes.
MOTTO: Government of the People, by
the People, for the People.
PRICE-ONEPENNY WEEKLY.
JOHN DICKS, Effingham House, Arundel-streefc,
London, Eng.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“AU-RED” ROUTE.
New Twin-Screw Steamer,
MANUKA, Sails 17th April.
NO OTHER ROUTE HOME OFFERS SUCH
ATTRACTIONS AS THAT via CANADA.
PACIFIC as SMOOTH & as STILL as a LAKE.
NO ENERVATING HEAT.
NATIVE LIFE SEEN IN FIJI AND FANNING
ISLANDS.
Honolulu the Paradise of the Pacific.
Charmingly Picturesque Scenes
in the Rockies.
NIAGARA FALLS, NEW YORK and QUEBEC
on the “ALL-RED” ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS— MAY 15, and EVERY FOUR
WEEKS THEREAFTER.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, Genera] Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNC. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), The Three Donkies (a good joke), the Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character-
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), the Pocket Companion or Combina-
tion Comet Candle and Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
Kerosene
Bath Heaters -
To fix yourself.
No Plumber wanted.
From £3 ss.
Send for Catalogue on Gas
or Wood Heaters.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt
Street, Sydney. 197-422 Eliza-
beth St., Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Vlotorlan and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Gabo, Saturday Next,
April 8, at 1 p.m. (Tran-
shipping at Melbourne.)
S.S. Marloo, April 15, at
10 a.m.
BRISBANE, 'l
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Cairns. 1 1
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday
Next, April 8, at 1 p.m.
S.S. Qabo, April 15, at 2 p. m.
Best and Cheapest lloute to Ooltljlelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
______ J Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MHLI3OUBNK, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows: -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, lnaia, Onina
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistanoe
In landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BT THI . .
“E. AND A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. GO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT Jc CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. „. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund „ 1,370,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 6,370,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L G.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt*.
Richard Binnie. Esa.
H. Montague Faithfull, Esq.
Auditors i
Harrington Palmer, Esq. A. <3, Kumqb, ESe%.
London Office-Old Brond Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New ZeaJxad
and Fiji ; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, Ghitui,,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United Static*
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects lor
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circulat
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J, RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
The Commercial Banicing Company
of Sydney, Limited,
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 O 0
Reserve Fund 1,070,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,070,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.O. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.O. Hon. H. Moses, ILL.CL
Hon. F. T. Humphert, U.L.CL
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq. A. H. K. Maxwell, E*q.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors :F. H. Dangar, Esq.; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. H S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TIN LEY, Manager.


Gordon Bennett, who at 16 edited a country newspaper,
has followed the inky way out West, having purchased
the Lachlander. He is now 19. _________
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound* that Diicharg* or otherwlK. perh.p* *ur
rounded with inflammation and ■wollen G>at when JO®
pro. your Anger on the Inflamed part it ! e » ye * th , e ."2J.!V
•ion ? If *o, undtr th« ikin you hate poi*on that
tha remedic* you bar# triad, which, if not
narar can racorar, but go on •uffering till daa!th Ml
you. Perhap* your knot* ara *wollen, the Jolnta being
ulcerated; tha lain, with the onklta, roundwhich the'kin
may be ducoloured, or there »ajr be wound* , tha di«e*«a
if allowed to continu* will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may hav* attended varlou* hoapltale and had
medical advice, and been told your caw i» hopale.., or
adviied to aubmit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. 1 don’t *ay parhap* ; but 1 WILL. Bccauie
other* hav* falltd 1* no r#a»ou for not how bainf cured,
liendatoncafor
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT ond P1LL8,
which ar* a certain ramedy for the euro of Bad I,eg»,
llauaamald'a Knee, Ulcercted Joint*, Carbuncle*. Pouoned
Hand*, Tumour*. Ab*ce»»e*, Sore Throat, Bronchltn,
Bunion*, and Ringworm. Of all ChemieU, Storaa,
kc. Price, In Great Britain. 1/lld. per box. I repared bv
ALBERT, 7S, Parrin|don-*treet, London, England.
Agent* t ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchaser* *hould
look lor the registered trade mark of the Qraiihoppav on >
green label on each box. (Rtgd. copyright!-
LAXATINE
For all Liver, Kidney and
Hemorrhoid Troubles.
The New
Ideal
Purgative
Is.
Per Box.
Recom-
mended
by the
World’s
Best
Physicians
All
Chemists
and
Store*
keepers.
MfINUFD. BY THE
tAXATINE C 9 LTD.
BUDAPEST HUNGARY V Dobottya-TO/I
JABORINE
HAIR TONIC.
The Finest Preparation ever Introduced for the
Hair. At onoe STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Prioe 2/6, Posted 2/9. GIVB > IT_ATRIAL i
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Ladled’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
A Successful
Man! ■
young man full
of energy and
! enterprise, tire-
less, quick to
seize his oppor-
tunities, in -
domitable in
turning them to the
fullest advantage,
certain to succeed!
Who would not
wish to be he,
instead of going
through life list -
less, below concert
pitch, and seldom
or never at one’s
best, in conse-
quence of tiresome
colds, coughs,
throat, lung, skin
and blood troubles
and prostrating de-
bility ? In Scott’s
Emulsion of cod
liver oil with gly-
cerine and the hypophosphites
of lime and soda we have an
admirable remedy for all these
things and especially for the
after-results, which are often
more prolonged and more de-
pressing than the ailments them-
selves. Mr. Atkinson’s case is
typical of a thousand. From
the Government Labour Farm,
Pitt Town, Windsor, N. S. W.,
under date of August 18th, 1904,
he wrote us as follows :
“I have always been a sufferer from
bronchitis, and could not obtain any
permanent relief, although I tried
various remedies. From the first dose
Scott’s Emulsion benefited me. It
agreed well with me, and was quite
palatable. After taking it for a little
while, my cough was completely cured
and I have gained weight and feel
altogether much stronger and better
in general health.”
Exactly ! Scott’s Emulsion goes
to the root of the trouble —sets
to work instantly to build up the
vitality. Disease has no chance
with a thoroughly |
vital man, and this
is the kind of man
which Scott’s Emul-
sion will make you.
Write to-day for a free
sample bottle (enclosing
4d. for postage and men-
tioning this paper) to
Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483, Kent Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
Trade
Mark
Permanently Overcomes Habitnal Constipation.
Dispels Feverish Headaches.
Speedily Cures Biliousness,
Indigestion and Flatulency,
z
V
NATURES
PIEASANT.
LAXATIVE*
m
a v u
<Sm
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE*
V«F
and all Disorders
arising from Sluggishness
of Liver, Bowels and
Kidneys,
Everything aoout California
Syrup of Figs is pleasant-taste,
appearance, action and results.
It does not gripe, irritate or in-
commode in any way, but just
simply and effectually assists
the organs to perform their
functions with healthful and
natural regularity, and its use
may be discontinued as soon
as the system is properly relieved and cleansed.
Ask for California Syrup of Figs. Of all Chemists, In two sires.
Pep6t: 32 8now Hill, London. Australia: 7 Barrack Street, 8ydney.
Amid the chorus of “ stinking fish, ” it is
refreshing to hear a voice on the other side. Mr.
Octavius Beale, of Sydney, told the Adelaide
Chamber of Manufacturers :
He blamed Australians who travelled round the world
and cursed their own country. He happened to know a
gentleman who had been very successful in army con-
tracts, and knew something about lloz. butter in 16oz.
tins. That gentleman made his money in Australia, and
ost no time in belittling this country.
Which hints at a truth. The people who cry
“stinking fish” are mostly those who sniff them-
selves when they think they are sniffing the
country.
Splendid article on “Hop,” Livingston
Hopkins—the famous comic artist of Thk Bull-
etin— by A. G. Stephens, of The Bulletin staff,
in the February Rev iew of Reviews, 8 pages, 30
illustrations. Don’t fail to read it. Also “First
Impressions of the Theatre,” by W. T. Stead.
All news agents.*
The balance-sheet of the Yic. Shipwrecked
Sailors’ Society shows that, during the 12 months
prior to making up the balance-sheet, the collec-
tion-box in a Melb. office of one leading inter-
state shipping firm returned the munificent sum
of one penny ! The collection-box of another
shipping firm returned ninepence for the year, and
all the collection-boxes gave the grand total of 4s.
Bd. !
Mr. W. R. DUNLOP, Wolf Creek, Ala.,
writes : An attack of measles bad left my son with the
MOST AGGRAVATING COUGH I EVER HEARD. His
mother began giving him Jayne’s Expectorant. Jly the
time he had taken one bottle, and started on the second,
HE WAS ENTIRELY CURED.
“ N.M.E.” sends this piece of blasphemy :
Have often noticed amongst bush toilers that a China-
man or blackfellow makes a far kinder and more reliable
mate than the average “ colonial.” You can always rely
upon a darkie or a Chow to see you through any trouble,
which is more than can always be said about the white
man to whom you have given a leg-up when shekels
were plentiful. And, as for a boss, the average Chinaman,
when Fortune smiles on him, can’t be beaten. See how he
treats his horse, dog, cat, and wife.
THE BEBT NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes —
“ Hunyadi J&nos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose : — A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadl Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
• ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
AUSTRALIAN SHOE HISTORY
THE CONCORD
In Black Vici Kid,
or
Tan Willow Calf.
Plain Balmorals,
Derby Lace, or
Button.
As good as any
Guinea Boot else-
where.
Post Free
Australia.
m
m
H
Cs 4
'Mm
|j/£ didn’t discover Australia—this is
"" generally accredited to Captain Cook.
When Cook arrived he found Australians
unshod. Since 1788 a proportion of the
population, who couldn’t pay the prohi-
bitive prices asked for fine boots,
have boon shod with varying
degrees of shoddiness.
it was for LOWE to discover
how to shoe the present-day
“ White Australians” with
Boots which faithfully fulfil the
requirements of smart dressers
who, though eminently desirous
of possessing style and finish
in their Footwear, are not content
to gain those attributes at the
expense of quality or per
medium of high cost. Coghlan
would have it: 11 The policy
pursued in the planning of
LOWE’S BOOTS has placed
the highest possible shoe-
value within the pur-
chasing power of the
people of the Com-
monwealth. ”
If you pet into the
“CONCORD” we start
you out in money-saving
shoes. All you’ve got
to do is to send your
style, Postal for the
price, and address.
MONEY BACK
if we cannot suit you.
Two Stores
OXFORD ST.,
Hyde Park.
GEORGE ST.,
opp. Markets.
W. LOWE & GO.
SYDNEY.
Mail Orders
to
Desk 6K f
512 George St.
The Inky Way.
The accounts of the death and inquest on Mrs. Leland
Stanford came to Australia from Honolulu right through
America and London—almost round the earth. News of
the Jap war goes first to London, and then comes back to
the Pacific to reach Australia. And all because the press
cables are run by a Trust, which has no competition and
therefore is careless as to the speedy transit of news,
and finds it cheapest to snip its cables from the London
journals.
• • • •
Politician Nanson has gone out of the Perth Morning
Herald, and Dreyer, an ex-Maorilander, who bought
his interest, decided to knock out all racing and
betting news. It looked a pretty hopeless course to take
in Westralia, where just about everyone gambles one
way or another—if not on races, then on the share market
or in land. Very soon it was announced that: “ Purely
as a matter of news, the names of the first three horses in
important races will be printed.”
“Gilaomi": In H. G. Wells’story, “ Kipps,” now run-
ning simultaneously in Melbourne Life and the Pall
Mall Magazine, the former prints the exact words that
the author puts into the mouth of Carshot, who is ever-
lastingly nagging at Kipps—“ My guts and liver 1 I never
see such a boy.” The I’all Mall namby-pambically sub-
stitutes “ My heart and lungs.”
• • * •
In one Australian capital the shipping-reporter of the
leading daily, who writes himself M.A. and is at all points
most sober and respectable, gets 30s. per week. On
another daily paper published in the same capital a re-
porter who is a B.A. gets—los. 1 The advantages of a
university education in journalism are obvious.
• • * *
Deceased George Fisher, M.H.R., M.L.’s shocking
example, was once a proof-reader on Melb. Age. The paper
was then in very low water, and had just been bought by
a syndicate of 20 compositors, of whom Fisher’s father
was one. Ebenezer Syme was appointed editor; David
followed,; and the weak crowd soon made way for the
brotherhood of two strong Scotchmen who knew what
they wanted.
» * « •
Melbourne daily papers are supporting the Chamber of
Manufactures in its “ Made in Australia ” crusade. But
they don’t support it in their weekly snippets.
* * # •
“H.S.T.": I lately received the Christmas number of
the Mentone and Monte Carlo News, edited by J. A.
Cameron (late of Australia), and published in the inter-
ests of British visitors to the Riviera and of the habitues
of the Monte Carlo gambling halls. “ Jack ” Cameron is
brother to Mrs. Mary Gilmore, impressionist in prose and
verse, erst of New Australia ; both had a training in
N.S.W. Education Department. Cameron was at one
time associated with “Matchbox” on the Coolgardie
Miner ; afterwards with “ Milky White ” he ran a Sunday
paper in Perth, and edited Clark’s Weekly. Went to
South Africa as correspondent for some Australian papers,
and represented London Daily Chronicle. Wrote for the
Westminster Review, St. James Gazette, and other Lon-
don journals ; also for Dublin Freeman and Irish Packet ;
became associate-editor New Age, London, and left that
for Monte Carlo.
* * * *
Concerning a wild revolutionary, who doesn’t look it:—
“ His name is Jang Chai Chid, and he edits the
Tung Waii Times (Sydney). He is alleged also to be far
and away the most cultured Ah Sin in Australia. He says
of himself: ‘lam a warm supporter of the Reform move-
ment in China. Two of my brothers, Tang Chai Chung
and Tang Chai Chuen, were the leaders of a number of
patriots in the south of China who formed a Radical party,
intending to revolt against the present Manchu dynasty.
In July, 1901, the revolution commenced, and two of my
brothers and more than 3000 of our fellow-revolutionists
have since been executed; but I escaped, and came to
Brisbane.’ ”
* * * *
A reporters’ union is urgently needed in Australia.
As a rule, the men who do the heavy work on the
newspapers are poorly paid. Many of them have no
prospect but an old age pension when the wealthy syndi-
cates throw them adrift. A union was mooted in Sydney
a year ago, but dropped. The smartest reporters watch
their chance to shelter in some other sphere, but all are
not so fortunate. The men who work the linotypes are
much better paid than the journalists, and they only put
in half the time that a reporter slaves. But they have a
union. In most of the offices the operators average
between £5 10s. and £6 per week, some making up to £B.
One Brisbane hand last year paid income tax on £425.
There is not a reporter in the Commonwealth drawing
more than £360 a year from one source—and very few
getting that rate. In the bulk of cases the salary is £4
and £5 per week. Some offices fix these rates as the
maximum. Yet every daily paper in Australia, if one or
two be excepted, is coining money in heaps for its owners.
• * • •
“R.H.P.”: Saw Pearson’s Magazine for this month
On the outer cover, apparently an aboriginal drawing?
Found, on investigation, a long article dealing with a
thought-reader’s experiences among the crowned noodles
of Europe. Aboriginal drawing aforesaid represented
King Ned’s idea of an elephant, as “read” by thought-
reader. And to bring to Australia at express speed about
50 pages of foreign advertising matter and a few pages of
this twaddle we are expected to pay heavy subsidies to
mail-steamship companies ! Astonishing what Pearson
and Harmsworth can do in this direction, too. Between
them, they own dozens of journals in the Cold Country,
and scarcely an issue of any but in it you find Royalty
dished up—Royalty at Home, Royalty on the Spree,
Royalty doing everything, in fact, but Working for an
Income. From the Kaiser to the Czar, from the Kaiserin
to the Spanish Infanta, all are portrayed in all sorts of
ways, and all the good that has ever fallen to mankind
attributed to them.
* * * *
“ Sydnevite ”: Re earliest Sydney Directory. I have
one dated 1832 ; name of publisher not on the title-page,
which was engraved by W. Wilson and has a picture of
the G.P.O. with a stage coach departing. Also contains
two beautifully-engraved plates by J. Carmichael, one of
“ Mount Victoria in its Original State,” and the other,
“ The Pass as Completed.” In a quaint preface is men-
tioned that “ Australia’s roads will, ere long, vie with
those of her Parent Country, and induce the introduction
of those rapid vehicles of communication—steam carriages
—the only substitute for inland navigation, which this
country, by its formation, is denied.” There is also a list
of “all ships that entered or departed from the harbor
of Port Jackson, between the Ist January, 1832, and 20th
December, 1832.” From this list it appears that the
Isabella, 580 tons, from London with male prisoners, was
the largest vessel in port during that year. The total
imports for 1832 are shown as £659,881, and the exports,
£371,174. The Directory proper takes up 66 pages of
crown Bvo., and the whole bears the imprint of Stephens
and Stokes, Herald Office, King-street, Si dney.
* * * *
“ Creeve Roe ”: Re politician-poets. When I was editor
and literary staff of a small weekly paper, published in
a Melbourne suburb, into my sanctum one day, while I
was making his nights sleepless for the late Prince Bis-
marck in a bitter leading article, entered abruptly a
stout grey-bearded, rugged-faced old gentleman in a tall
hat and black dust-coat. It was Mr. J. M'Lellan, Minister
of Mines, and Dove of Ararat. “ There,” he said, planking
down a thick slab of manuscript on the table, “ that s the
lot for this week ! ” I looked at it and shuddered. It was
the continuation of a poem, entitled “ The Yarra,” that
promised to be as long as its subject.. The distinguished
author and the proprietor of the paper were great friends,
and the former had promised to give a helping
hand while the paper, which was young, was struggling
to its feet. His assistance took the form of poetry-
fathoms of it. I believe he intended it to be a metrical
history of Victoria from the small days of Batman and
Fawkner to the great days of M'Lellan. When adver-
tisements began to come in, the proprietor hinted that
the statesman-bard should be gently discharged, and basely
left me to administer the discouragement. It turned out
to be an easy, and even agreeable, task. I read some
passages from the manuscript in as good a style as I could
command, and then turned upon the author a gaze of
respectful reproach. “Sir,” I said, “I think it is an
injustice to yourself and the reading public of Australia
that poetry of this quality should be buried in the
columns of an obscure suburban newspaper.” “ What
would be a better plan ? ” he inquired, in a gratified tone.
“Publish it in pamphlot form,” I replied. And he did,
And the pamphlet was printed at the office of the paper,
and paid for by the distinguished author.
When the devil was well
The devil a horse would see ;
When the devil was sick
The devil a horse—but three.


Pimples and Boils.
Caused by Impure Blood. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills Drive the Poisons out of
the System.
Pimples and boils are more or less painful and
irritating, and are always a great disfigurement to
the skin. Look in the mirror, you are ashamed of
your face. You cannot hide them with powder
and puff; they stand out most provokingly, and
you fancy that everyone looks at that particular
spot. It is a standing advertisement that your
blood is out of order. The liver and kidneys are
not acting properly. They are not filtering the
impurities from the blood, and Nature is exercising
her prerogative and throwing off a portion of the
impurities through the eruptions. A most incon-
venient mode, you say, but you are responsible for
neglecting Nature in her other channels. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills stimulate the liver and
kidneys to thoroughly remove all impurities from
the blood. They are a perfect blood-purifier,
making it rich and red. They are a positive and
permanent cure for all diseases arising from a, dis-
ordered stomach, liver and kidneys, and are an in-
fallible remedy for constipation, biliousness, sick
headaches, piles, pimples, boils, skin diseases and
female ailments. Packed in amber bottles, and
sold throughout Australasia.*
m
'mmm
m
m
mm
**ZZ
M- J. MOLONEY,
TattersaU’s Club,
SYDNEY.
COMMISSIONS Executed.
IT lon q£ZLM?£. t J2 es
TEL. 1542 or 251,
Write or wire for Quotations .
Pr/ce Lists forwarded on Application.
>
Address ale Correspondence
M. J. MOLONEY, Tattersall's Club, Sydney,
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
A MARVELLOUS PREPARATION*
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
“MAKES HOME, SWEET HOME IN DEED.”
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
E. RESCIT, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. Wo Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices :
BOWLING- ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
This is the period between the seasons : the
cneketers rest from the pitch, and the footballers go
about the streets, bidding- farewell to their friends and
drawing up their wills ere the metropolitan competitions
come upon them. The yachts are laid up, and the voices
of those who sailed them to victory, or hung them up in
the wind to scoop the pool, are heard in the private bars
calling for hot water with their whisky. The cyclists
have passed on, even as the swallows, to where the boodle
is still to be raked in. The bowling greens shall be closed,
and the hands that bowled shall deal two bowers and an
ac ® Partner. Only the moke that is stiff will rest not,
and the other animal which cannot help winning will fall
under the weight of the public money, and the punter
will walk to his far-off home.
* * * *
Stated by the Canada Cycle and Motor Co. that
the ba,ld statement that MacFarland’s bicycle collapsed
NeWtown Five Mile scratch race, March
loth (23/3/ 05), is unjust to the Massey-Harris bike that he
rode, ft seems that Don Walker fell first, and that his
handle-bar, catching in the spokes of MacFarland’s rear
wheel, brought the latter down. No self-respecting circle,
no matter how strong, would stand that sort of thing :
and the accident was in no way the fault of the machine
he rode.
Victorian motor-cyclists have formed a club of
then- own and will no longer be a sort of tail to the Auto-
mobile Club. The new club will remain on the most
friendly terms with the older body, and will regard it
with sympathy. Australian-brandy man Joshua was the
prime mover, and the idea is that the Motor-cycle Club
will draw in many motor-cyclists who would iiot have
joined the more heavily gilded Automobile Club. About
the first tiling the club did was to ukase that nobody
connected with “ the trade ” could hold Office.
* * * *
Maoriland crack road-cyclist R. Arnst, on
u,, f o£ hhnself and two brothers, J. and H. C. Arnst
challenges any other three riders in Australia to a road’
match. N.S. W. League sec. MTntosh offers to get three
men to take the family trio on at £25 per man, and men-
t.ons champion Brook and Larcombe as two of them.
Match, which should prove interesting, will probably
come off during the winter road-racing* season.
* * * *
The recent great exhibition of motor cars in
London proved that the British manufacturer is not obso-
lete in some things. Both the French and German cars
excelled the ’Murkan, and the latest makes of British cars
completely eclipsed those of the Frog-eaters. Moreover
they are cheaper, and over £200,000 worth of orders were
taken by firms which exhibited during the period the
machines were on show. The fall in price and the big
improvement are due to the fact that motor traffic is
largely on the increase in London, where many of the
streets are too narrow to make a tram line possible. The
motor- bus can swing to the kerb and dart through the
openings in the line of vehicles with the best, and is
under all circumstances, more manageable than a vehicle
drawn by horses, because it takes up only half the
room and has sometimes triple the carrying capacity,
the consequence is that the trade is booming, and prices
are falling rapidly. Nevertheless, anything like a decent
car still costs much money.
* » * *
~ The lap which MacFarland put in the pacing in
wu -V, ne / Thousand was an amazing burst of Speed.
When the long fellow tucked his nose down in front of his
tyre, even Lawson and Ellegaard had their work cut out
to keep his wheel. It left Farley a wreck, it burst
MacFarland himself, and took the last ounce out of Ivor
Lawson.
Australia promises to become the land of the
motor. Already, in proportion to population, there is an
enormous number of cars in use here. To the average
person of even some means a motor is almost prohibi-
tory ; one has to pay from £l9O to £250, taking- into
account secret rebates, for even the lightest of cars. The
royalties on a multitude of patent rights, the absence of
local manufactories of cars, and something approaching a
trust, conspire to keep up the price. The motor bike is a
good substitute as far as the man who lives in a suburb is
concerned in getting in and out of the citv. It can be
stowed away in comparatively small space—but it is too
limited to come into general use. One can’t take
his wife or best girl out on a motor bike,
‘° r > i. so , far > make . rs do not seem to have evolved
the tandem motor-bike. Anyhow, it’s a dangerous sort
of craft to have a woman on board of. This year the
British manufacturer has laid himself out to produce a
motor tricycle on a scale of magnificence and complete-
ness hitherto undreamt of. The tri. has a nicelv up-
holstered seat in front, in which the charmer sits, and the
man who steers the machine can, when the lady is willing
bend over and nibble at her little curls. The tri. Is
claimed to possess great hill-climbing powers, and as it is
being placed on the market at somewhere about half the
price of the cheapest light cars, may fill a want. Another
notion is a two-wheeled chair which can be attached by a
chain or rod or buffer to the motor bike and trailed
behind it. That notion does not seem so far to have
caught on.
* » * •
Mr. Harry Floyd, once noted as a sculler,
racing-boat builder and promoter of skiff handicaps, but
a retired ljuil(,er and property owner, who spends
half of his time a-wheel, has put up a record as the first
man to take a bicycle to the top of Mount Kosciusko. Mr.
I loyd and two friends left Sydney three weeks ago for the
Monaro, ofptjieir bicycles, and all intended to do the
ascent and take their wheels; but the guides and
Jmdabyne residents told such terrible tales of snowstorms
fogs, &c, that Mr. Joe Davis and his other friend wilted'
The ex-sculler, however, tackled the task alone. Leaving
Jmdabyne at 6.15 a.m. he reached Betts’camp at 2 p.m”
ana stayed the night there. Starting next morning at
6.1.5 he reached the Observatory at 10 a.m. and was back
in Jmdabyne, despite a black storm en route, at 8 p m
As a guarantee of good faith, he nailed up a card at
Betts camp and another within the Observatory hut.
Added money for the V.R.C. Derby is to be
raised from £lOOO to £l5OO, the winner to get £3OO the
second horse £l5O, and the third £5O of the extra induce-
ment. This is a desirable lift for that languishing classic
event. But there is no apparent reason why the prize-
money should not be further increased by raising the
amount of the forfeits. The first forfeit for the Derby is
mei eiy £l. It should be at least £3, so that owners
would be tempted to wait for the second forfeit (which is
only £5) before scratching anything that might have a
ghost of a chance. Horses good enough to get a place in
the Derby have been allowed to go out on the first forfeit
because their “form” was not known, and there was a
paltry £1 to pay. Clean Sweep was a notable case in
point. Entered for the Derby, the colt had been with-
drawn before the stable began to know him for a good one-
Winner (Kirkland) of English G-.N. Steeple at
Liverpool, Friday, is by Australian horse Kirkham, by
Chester from La Princess, and was bred by late Mr.
Janies White to English time and sent to England to win
the Derby. King Ned was unfortunate in connection
with the race ; his Ambush 11., dubbed a good thing,
dropped dead while training, and M.L. ’chaser Moifaa
(last year s winner), purchased from owner, Mr. Gollan,
for 2500g5., failed. The jockey retained to ride the nag
oouldn t through being kicked on day of race, and during
the running Moifaa fell. Kirkland ran second to Moifaa
12 months ago.
* * • *
The S.A. J.C. meeting at Adelaide was i'oked
forward to with some slight extra interest on account of
havin » announced that it was going to “deal
with bookmakers who acted as totalisator agents. The
tickets of admission stated that they were issued subject
to the right of the club stewards or committee to revoke
them between the first and second races. The book-
makers were hustled out of the cheaper portions of the
ground easily enough, but tha big guns in the grand
stand stared haughtily over their shiny collars and
declined the invitation to get or the outside of the fence.
A! 16 C u j o “i cia l s called the police, but the coppers said
they had no authority to throw bookmakers out. They
were only there to preserve the peace, prevent assaults,
and things like that. The Commissioner of Police, when
appealed to, said his men were not chuckers-out, and
would not be permitted to act as such. Then the club
threw up the sponge, and the bookies went on “ agent-
ing ” gaily. h
* * * *
Most, if not all, the 27 starters in Newcastle
Cup, Saturday, had a “ bit to nothing ” of Tatts. sweep
otherwise the field would probably have been poor. A
pot of money went on Loredano, who started 5 to 2 against
tne nearest to him being De Malljon at 10’s. Result
demonstrated what a potent factor is sweep-money and
how much astray public judgment was with all starters
genmne tners. Places were filled by outsiders Zythos (12
to!) 1 hu May (“name your own odds”) and Chaperon
T 4 - , Wmner only beat Phil May (perhaps least
fancied of all) by a neck. Zythos, by Haut Brion from
Barley, is half-brother to Malster, and owned by well-
known theatrical manager Mr. J. C. Williamson.
* * * *
At Bendigo Racing Club’s “extra day”
meeting, last week, horses belonging to O. T. Wills
appropriated five of six events ; he had no entry for the
other race—a trot.
* * * *
The V.R.C. committee has decided to introduce
a system of telephone communication between the
stewards’ stand and the various starting-posts, so that
the starter may be notified as to which nags are °*oin£r
suspiciously in the betting, whilst he responds by naming
the riders who are seemingly not anxious to get well
away when the barrier rises. The idea is not original—
m fact, it comes from N.S.W., with a character for use-
fulness, as a deterrent to audacious “pulling.” The
telephone-warning system might be made to”work a
great improvement in turf morals as far as the actual
racing is concerned, if worked without fear or favor
But if it is to be confined at first to the misdoings of
little men and bookmaker-owners, without exposing the
tactics of the more influential clique, it will merely serve
to enrich some rogues at the expense of others. Is the
telephone intended to compel A and B to run straight
what time 0 and D are running “ stiff ” with impunity ? ’
Kensington (Sydney] I'm. y Club has had tele-
phone communication the stewards’ box and
every starting point for the past two years. The arrange-
ments in connection with Kensington, although it’s only
a pony course, are probably as complete as any in Austral-
asia.
_* * * *
a i®. talk of cutting off the telephone from
Sydney betting shops. Two convictions, away with the
telephone from the building. ’Twould probably be
effective. J
* * * *
Ten Jack Tars aboard the Victorian gunboat
Cerberus, now Federal property, drew Zythos in “ Tatter-
sail s ’ sweep on the Newcastle Cup. They laid £lOOO
out of the first prize (£4000) to the owner of the horse
and gave the jockey a substantial tip. After paying all
expenses they will receive over £2OO apiece.
* * * #
Mo had a joyful time on Saturday. Besides
outsider Zythos’ success in Newcastle Cup, three wins at
Uosehill left a big balance in the “ books’ ” favor. Ibex
showed something of his old form by starting at 12 to 1
and winning Rawson Stakes a neck in front of heavily
backed Cato. Ancient Lucknow (another 12 to 1 chance)
gathered Railway Stakes easily from Solitary (who went
out same price) and Fashoda (10 to 1) as named. Fanshawe
was absolutely unbacked by anyone, yet he won Rosehill
Handicap (the big thing of the day) after a ding-dong
struggle down the straight with last Melbourne Cup
winner Acrasia (heavily supported), who was beaten bv a
neck. J
* * * *
Spencer (rollan, the tall, Roman-nosed Maori-
land sport who sold Moifaa to King Ned, has his stud
farm at Waipukurau, in Hawkes Bay. Gollan spends most
of his time in England and thereabouts, and his valuable
properties in Maoriland are managed by his step-brother
Mr. de Pelechet, whose wife was one of the most beautiful
women in all Maoriland. Another Hawkes Bay (M.L.)
sport credited with an ambition to run his Maoriland nags
m the presence of the King is George Parker Donnelly
wiKM'Ose .i,n rank, fame and fortune by marrying <( Prin-
cess ’ Arini, the most dashing horsewoman in Hawkes
Bay, and a full-blooded Maori. He b.i; : ust returned from
lionising it in England with his whe. a;.a announced that
T, ~I , n ^b ably shl P the Dreadnought mare Trumpery to
the Cold Country to engage in the blue ribbon steeples
* * * «
Lack of originality evidenced in Australian turf
naming is lamentable. Latest offence “ Good Morning
Bdl ranks with “Here-I-come With My Eye Knocked Out’’
You re a Liar and “ You’re Another ’’—three names
wh°"e P blck properly wi P ed oufc by A -J-0. committee a
Three months without the option, imposed
by a Sydney magistrate on a betting-shop clerk last week,
has scared the subordinates of the'various rookeries badly.
Fines of £5O or £lOO were nothing, because someone else
stood them ; but three months’ gaol—that can’t be taken
out of the till. One or two more such sentences and the
shops will shut.
* * • »
Season of 1904 cost the N. S. W. Rugby crowd a
OSS £750. This was caused by the extra ex-
penditure on the visiting British team on top of a heavy
year otherwise. Remembering the huge attendances at
the British matches, the loss of £750 is to the outsider
somewhat unexpected. But the “out-of-pocket” ex-
penses of a score of burly athletes for several months, all
living on the other fellow’s “pocket,” must, of necessity
reach a formidable figure.
* * * *
• sees the opening of the Rugby season,
out the competition fixtures do not start for a month vet.
Coming after the hurly-burly of 1904, a quiet season is
expected. The Bananalanders are at the present the only
certain visitors. In the Australian game, attractions
from the Southern States are promised. The “ Mel-
bourne’’game, as the local Rugbyites scornfully dub it,
will not have the British Rugby team of last year or the
again't'' 1 !^ 3 ear before to help the competition
* * * *
In view of the deadlock in the Towns-Stanbury
match over “gate,” it is suggested that the difficulty may
be got over by each man having his own steamer and
allowing the public to give its opinion of the squabble in
a practical way by planking its money with its sympathy,
railing to be rowed locally, the contest may be 'arranged
for outside Australia. New Westminster (8.C., Canada)
Agricultural and Industrial Society intends holding a
Dominion Exhibition from September 27 to October 7
liexx, whereat an amateur and professional sculling* car-
mval is to be a feature, and both rowers have been asked
a Exhibition authorities to state terms for bringing
off the match on the Fraser River during the carnival.
* * * *
Sydney is to have a novel rowing event coming
Saturday. Mrs. Sargent and Miss G. Lewis have chal-
lenged Misses E. and M. Caunsell to a double-scull event.
Race begins at 3.30, from Sailor’s Bay to the Spit H
miles, in equal boats, for a £4 purse. ’
S’Australian ten, from which inter-State eight
will be chosen, average close to 12.3, and include several
who have been there before—four were in the crew that
finished second last year. Tas. lot are drawn from the
Tamar, North Esk, and Derwent clubs, and carry
excellent endorsements, though ’tis generally considered
that stroke has no recommendation beyond ownin<>- a
fane physique and having a good athletic record. Two” of
the Queensland combination, Mdy and Jessop, are in the
gnp of dengue ; but, on th? whole, it’s a strong eight,
which might have been made stronger by the inclusion of
two or three of Rockhampton’s all-conquering oars.
* * * *
Feature of Melbourne first-grade cricket Satur-
day last was H. Trumble’s return to brilliancy with the
bat m the Melbourne-University match. Uni. knocked
up 213 for the first inning’s, Melbourne replying* with a
substantial 320 ; Trumble carrying out his bat for 133.
Sydney schoolboy cricketer, O. H. Dean, con-
tinues to trouble trundlers. So far, he has batted 33
tunes this season for 2117 runs, averaging* (with one not
out) 64*15. In school matches his average is 111*77 for 10
innings. With five in school matches, and four in other
matches, his nine “ centuries ” this season are : 412. 126
104, 174, 106, 111, 106, 143, and 146.
Harry Blmman, who, since the retirement of
George Giffen, has been the veteran of S.A. cricket, will
retire permanently at the close of the present season, and
will seek his future laurels on the bowling green.
11 9,' : ate ’ batches of supple damsels
round Melbourne have been forming themselves into
cricket clubs, and, having mastered the rudiments of the
game, are now playing friendly matches. They thought-
fully notify the results thereof to the dailies, but, being
apparently afraid of criticism, conceal the locality of the
riot till all is over. Lately, however, I succeeded in
tracking* the Sherwood Ladies’ C.C. to its battle-ground—
a piece of waste land in St. Kilda—and watched
it suffer an unholy wallopping from the Coldstream
Cadies C.C. These latter meant business, and had thrown
appearances to the winds. Dressed in white sweaters full-
length blue serge skirts, and calico sun-hats, and minus
corsets, they waded in to the fray and smote the enemy
hip and brisket. They possess a fairish round-arm bowler
who proved almost unplayable, a stylish little bats-
woijian who cut and drove like a Trumper, and a well-
built damsel who slogged like Billowell and piled up 59
runs in less than an hour, including 8 fourers and a fiver
clean over an Bft. fence 50yds. from her wicket. The
Sherwood ladies, on the contrary, had preserved appear-
ances at the expense of efficiency. They looked en-
ticingly trim and neat in big straw hats and brief
gowns of blue and white print, with tight - drawn
red leather belts ; but their play was a joyous
joke. Also they hadn’t mastered the very first
lesson a good player must learn, in that one and
all rushed to proffer the captaiyiess advice at every
available opportunity. Their fielding and catching were
regrettable, though both wicketkeepers were good—but
the wear and tear on those damsels’ skirts must be con-
siderable. Three or four of the 22 could throw the ball
JY"'“ a man s wrist.v twist, the rest tossed it up anyhow :
if it went the wrong way, well—there was plenty of time’
and it was their game. Several pleasing interludes
occurred while someone borrowed a pin to fasten a bats-
woman s skirt. Coldstream’s first innings totalled 110 to
Sherwood’s 25—but that is a detail.
* * * *
Miss Massey, who did a record swim in Swan
Biver (W.A.), from Claremont to Point Walter and back,
tour years ago was afflicted with curvature of the. spine
and swimming was one of the remedies prescribed ; that
she is cured her excellent performance of four miles in 3hr.
lmin. is pro f. Another and prior feat, by a youngster of
1~ named Elsie Pike, is worthy of notice. She swam the
same course as Miss Massey, bub only one way (two miles')
in lhr. 25min. "
* * * *
~ £?, ran X, ef j uallin & r of Lane’s world’s best
i u- R' ls hcutter’s Bay baths, a few weeks ago
and his failure to get within 3sec. of that time at Googee
Aquarium last week, made it appear (until the lopping of
6 2-ssec. off the world’s quarter on Saturday) as if he was
going stale ; but fact is, the lad doesn’t turn nearly as
adeptly as many contemporary swimmers, and unless he
improves it may make some difference to him in England
if he goes for distances under 300yds., as they are all
swum in short, enclosed baths. But there wasn’t a man
“down under” las fc season who could get near Reran’,
record for the furlong. fi-eran s
Opening (last Saturday) by North Sydney Dis
tnct Swimming Club of new baths at Lavender Bay
recalls that on that spot were the first baths in Sydney
occupied by Fred. Cavill, father of the famous swimming
family of that name—he had them in the early eighth's’
°/ le ‘ tlI ' le Australian champion swimmer, Walter M‘lndoe
of Vietona showed first in N.B.W. at lavender lay
baths when he beat Ernie Cavill in a match arranged by
Richmond ihatcher, a then well-known journalist it
was after Thatcher that “Dick” Cavill was christened
Richmond. Fastest breast-stroke swimmer Australia lias
known (J D. Webster) won N.S.W. championship a
Lavender Bay baths m 1882, beating all the best side-
stroke performers of the time, bar Corbett, who didn’t
compete. 0
.** * *
Victorian combination selected to meet N.S.W
rep. bowlera in Sydney at Easter includes eight (Messrs'
W. W. Stevens, Wright, Waxman, Haslam, Neill, Kemp]
Kelly, and W. Stephens) who opposed N.S.W. in Mel-
bourne last November, and two (Wallace and Crawley)
who came over with the Victorians last Easter. - An old
member of Wayerley (Sydney) Club, Mr. Locke, and
Messrs. Tatchell and Dowling will bowl for Victoria
against N.S.W. the first time.
* * * *
S.A., on its own ground, beat a strong (though
not quite the strongest) Victorian six at lawn tennis bv 12
rubbers to eight. Inter-State women’s match, played at
the same time, showed the S. A. team, as usual, invincible.
M'ss Payn and Miss Parr, playing up at the net with
masculine vigor, added another to their long list of suc-
cesses.
* * • »
Tatt.’s official result slips must be kept strictly
free from misprints. A wrong figure, or—in these days
raffliMny horse-names are almost alike—a wrong letter
would lead to complications. In the Newcastle Cup slip
hovvever, the name of one nag was spelt wrongly, and, by
a strange accident, that one was the winner: Xythos
instead of Zythos.
* * # .
Australian athlete T. Borroughs has again
broken the world’s record at club swinging by twirling
a 21b. pair for 47 consecutive hours. The human imagina-
tion can picture nothing more deadly monotonous than
twirling a pair of clubs for a couple of days and nights.
It may be a remarkable feat of endurance and a wonderful
performance, but how deadly dull 1 The public should be
paid for watching it.
; * * # tr
Ibird scrap between Victorians, Whiting and
Jennings, at Melbourne Queen’s Hall, lasted till the lltli
round, when Jennings broke his hand and had to stop.
Battle was torrid always. Jennings rushed with remark-
able grit, and t’other timed splendidly, using a clever left
Jennings is a tough, rugged-built fellow,
with heaps of pluck and stay, but Whiting knows too
much of the science of the game. Winner should have
had previous two decisions—one of which was a draw
and the other in favor of Jennings.
* * * *
Victoriun pug. Alf. Wells, who has been hus-
tling things pugilistic a good deal in Tasmania, lately
bumped a snag in old ’un Harry Miller at Queenstown,
when the pair fought for the State’s supremacy. Though
Miller was an athlete when Wells was yet unborn and
has been the better part of a fair life-time before the
public in that capacity, the fight had hardly started ere
crowds were shaking hands with the veteran and Con-
gratulating him on his success.. Forty seconds short of a
round that had been all fight saw Wells on the ground
counted out—the effect of a short arm right to the point.
Miller will give the game best now and follow some peace-
ful occupation.
*** . *
Now certain that Jack M'Gowan, lightweight
champion pug of Australia for years, will not fight
a P>n-lns arm, broken months ago in that fierce affair
at Ballarat with Tasmanian Maher, can oniv be used
gingeriy. M‘Gowan was among the most inoffensive (out
of the ring) of his calling Australia has known. He fought
his fiist important fight at Albany 15 or 16 years ago, and
afterwards figured in the ring more frequently than any
half-dozen contemporary thumpers, for no offer of a
match, under reasonable cpnditions, in any portion of the
Commonwealth, found him baulking.
The Smith-O’Brien fight at Sydney Gaiety on
Saturday night was the sort of thing it is better to watch
than take part in. They simply stood up to one another
and hashed until one or the other would fall. It was
purely a matter of endurance. Smith managed to land a
few more telling blows than the other, or there was an
ounce or so difference in the capacity for punishment,
and Smith won.
* * * *
Sydney Flying Squadron closed its season on
Saturday with a general handicap, and the limit boat
Looe scored her maiden win of the season in the very last
race.


YeryOldVatteA
Liqueur Whisky.
JKstilled&Bottlcd by
'em
a
Kilmarnock Scotland.
C. Stratmann’s *
FINE...
CHOCOLATES .~i
SWEETHEATS
Mams on tiie
Premises
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY , Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
m
BRH
i
B
1
Qly
jufinu»!
TAOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-L ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” “»di
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS
NERVOUSNESS.
boss of EKERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS ot SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
JUST WHAT HAS BEEN WANTED.
A Good Practical TYPEWRITER Low Cost,
We have it!!
The “Postal
Price £6 15s. ; with Oak Case, £7 10s.
No business man, no njajbler ip hpw small a way, should be without a Typewriter. _ Type-
written letters look well., are rpore impressive, and lead to business. Send for full particulars—
Post Free.
OSBORN & JERDAN, 393 George St., Sydney.
FASHIONABLE OSTRICH TIPS
s«F>s
s/r-O
a£
hr
For the Autumn and Winter Season
Black Feathers will be very fashionable.
Millinery Experts forecast a great de-
mand for feathers. Vide Fashion journals
MILLER’S FEATHERS.
THE BEST THAT MONEY CAN BUY
Direct from the Farm to You.
We say with confidence they are the
best Feathers for the price in Australia,
suitable and becoming for every lady
who requires an inexpensive trimming.
OSTRICH TIPS 3 for 6/- Pest Free (as illustrated.) Length, 9 inches.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, NATURAL GREY, or BLACK Tipped with White.
OSTRICH PLUMES, 15 inches, 7/6, all colors. STEEL ARROW ORNAMENTS, 1/-
CHOICE BOAS, 21/-, 30-, 42/-, 63/-, 84/-. WORTH TWICE THE MONEY.
NOTE THIS. —By ordering from us you not only save all the Middlemen’s
profits, but you have the finest assortment of Ostrich Feathers in Australia to
choose from. Send Postal Notes. Illustrated Price List Post Free.
FEATHERS OR BOAS CLEANED AND CURDED.
Superior Work at Moderate Prices.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Dept. P., Cor. Strand Arcade, PITT ST., SYDNEY
Also at C:rner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. Mention Tub Bulletin.
The Pen Carbon Letter Book.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER
AND A PEN CARBON BOOK
Makes a complete outfit with which any MAN, WOMAN or CHH.D can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without leaving the slightest sign of copying on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of hills you send out, of oraers, receipts, bank cheques. It leaves no vague,
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
It will save any house or family much money by its indisputable record.
& Je Agents for
Australasia:
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE).
Agent -for Victoria—ANDßEW SHERAR & CO., 101-103 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
ASK
FRANZ JOSEF Laser
PURE, WHOLESOME and INVIGORATING. There is Nothing Better.
Why Pon’t You Write
TO-DAY for Patterns of our HANDSOME NEW AUTUMN
SUITINGS, and compare our prices with what you’ve been
paying elsewhere? We’ve just opened a Splendid Selection,
including our famous Pure Indigo Blue Fadeless Serges.
REMEMBER ! —We guarantee to please and fit you as well, by
our easy system of self-measur Tent, as though you were
fitted in our v •: rooms.
“Economic" Suits to
Measure
Hand-finished in Best
Possible Style..
35c 50s .
60s. to 85s .
CHARLES GILBERT, qu |r" s |Jn E
SPECIALIST IN TAILORING,
* A special discount will be given If this paper Is mentioned.
9
I SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
tjp*— Every Bar weighs 17 Honest
English Ounces, divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never he without it.
WILLIAMS’
: ;:n’t dry on
THE FACE.
W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS
Awarded Grand Prize,
St. Louis Kxposition, 1904.
GREENER’S
CLUB RIFLES 3 1 0 & 297/230
Best in the market for Kangaroo
and Ladies’ Bifie Clubs.
All Riflemen should read “ For Sport and
War,” by W. W. GREENER. 180 Pages,
100 Illustrations, Posted 1/2.
GREENER’S GUNS and RIFLES—a Large
Stock on hand.
Catalogues and Price Lists on application
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne
(Greener’s Representative)
Certain mill-stones lying round
on the Barcom Glen Estate, Sydney, serve to
mark the spot where the first water-mill stood,
which ground Governor Macquarie’s wheat.
In 1812 it was formally opened by his Ex., on the
Obed West Grant, and was declared a very up-
to-date method of Hour-making, though some folk
still clung to the private steel hand-mill, which
was kept chained to a stone in front of the house.
For exactly the same offence, with no
mitigating circumstances in any case (the offence
was breaking fire-alarms), the following penalties
were recorded last week by three Melbourne
courts: (1) Three months’ imprisonment without
the option of a fine ; (2) one month’s imprison-
ment with the option of a fine ; (3) a fine of Is.
The cheap thing to do in such circumstances is to
throw mud at “justices’ justice.” But “ judges’
justice” is almost as anomalous ; yet nobody sug-
gests the abolition of judges. The only court
from which anomalies and an occasional failure are
not to be tolerated is an Arbitration Court —the
one court from which absolute perfection is
demanded as the price of its life.
The Victorian woollen manufacturers have
asked the Tariff Commission for a 25 per cent,
duty on blankets and flannels and imitations
thereof; 30 per cent, on tweeds, serges, and all
imitations ; and 40 per cent, on clothing. The
only pity is that they didn’t ask for, and get, a
double duty on all imitations. There are 13 mills-
in Victoria, with a capital of £400,000, employing
1138 hands under the minimum-wage law. Their
present output is but a drop in the bucket of the
home market, and, instead of progressing as they
should do, and as they were doing prior to Federa-
tion, the oversea imports into Victoria progress-
from £482,421 in ’O3 to £681,318 in ’O5. They pay
50 cent, higher wages than English mills do and!
work 48 hours as against 56, yet they can beat the
Englishman in the better-class stuff in the matter
of price—though they don’t get credit for it. It’s
in the cheaper stuffs they are swamped, by the
shoddy and “imitations,” which pretend to be
what they are not. A feature of every tariff
should be, in the cause of honesty aswell as Pro-
tection, a prohibitive rate on all imitations—
cottons which pretend to be woollens, and fakes:
that masquerade as silks.
M
AVOID
TROUBLE t
Every Cyclist knows what trouble end annoy-
ance b laulty or toft-riot Cycle Tyre means.
The surest way to get the best results trom
cycling is to specify Roadstek vulcanised
Roadster Tyres
Guaranteed 15 Months.
BEWARE or IMITATIONS.
ht>Ho Genuine
Without thie cm-
Trade
Mark..
Ole fiunSop Pneumatic tyre go.
of Au&tralasis Limited.
All States and New Zealand.
ARTISTIC BOOKLET,
Free on application,
150 Clarence Street,
Sydney.


* ... <
M
■ . ■
... V *3tSr£sM*t. - rW
.
f :: ■ ■.. •• ; ..
;
"Frj&maL
.IS
H " \ ~vv
:.
. .. '•:
2*
■?vn
:'• ."v ..u
p?s
’ipr - rv
8? * •’*l * . . ■
•. • • . ■ •
. ,
... .■
-, •. • •. -.-•. • j -. ; * ‘V v
<k
Si
U
*%
/
V s
'<*..
I i
v
X
A
r.
assa
?
n
yi)
bnjlAfJuJi,
yi/<A>
OvJci/ y^CiynxLo
(aajJi yOhi^io
&vV (FuJ-yys A^j~
/o <w/ tcuA (& jbadfuj p /vD^j^aJ-t
idyJ&vAunr~ J{j CxAoJCxO CUXCuA''<xA& p7>v/v
S' ( B^ ( y/*r*j /p Olfhj (3. A^dcAuiL.
0 A o/^Q’/ kA : (tf (d~:


f.
n.
it
V
ZANDS
42
&
&
l
w.
to-
il >
r< -i
Jt>
Wi*i
w*i
■'/
+r
»
■*&
mm
saws?
J. 3»
•'■■.' , ■ ' . -“• -
1 t
aSSi®
n* 4 " -
* ■-
f®K
km
■ ■
**
m
m
mm
m
m
ifl
- v
t&a
.* .
rvjj,
•>-r
sr.
v*\
.Iff
.
r » »w.v,y,
"•►- ' **> J j n
- r
Jkitsk
'«!.
3S
-*fi'S
rtl# ; #■ J»#
,
■Hi
, *»
*
= *.. X, A U''. - r ■ -..>•■
-V.-' - '-
*Q
-;•
**T*
-
■ ;
,• : ■ V
5b
\i-M
U;M
V\
p*r*
s™k
if'
1
r-;
**»
INVERELL LAND DISTRICT, NEW
south wales.
(Closer Settlement Act , 1904.)
MYALL CREEK ESTATE.
Notice is hereby given that the Myall Creek
Estate, recently acquired by the Btate Govern-
ment, and adjacent suitable Crown lands, in all
over 65,000 acres, have been subdivided into 138
Farms, ranging in area from 240 to 1,380 acres,
and will become available for application under
the Closer Settlement Act of 1904 on the 25th
April, 1905
These lands afford special advantages for Closer
Settlement The climate is healthy, and the
rainfall, averaging 31 $ inches per annum for the
past twenty-three years, is ample. In addition,
the Myall Creek and its tributaries traverse the
area, and water may lie easily obtained almost
anywhere by sinking wells.
The soil is rich chocolate or red on the slopes,
with rich black soil on the plains.
The Estate is admirably adapted for mixed
farming such as cultivation of wheat, maize, barley,
potatoes, and other «-ereal and root crops, with
dairying, pig raising, and poultry-farming or sheep
farming. The sod is also eminently suited for th
cultivation of orchards or vineyards.
DEPOSIT
The deposit to be paid by an applicant when
lodging Ins application is £5 per cent, of the value
of the farm, i.e., should the value of the farm bo
£l.OOO. the deposit will be £5O The balance can
be paid off at any time, or by 5 per cent pay-
ments extending over thirty-eight years.
Applications must be lodged with the Crowr
Land Agent, Inverell, and may be either lodged
personally or forwarded by registered post.
BPECIAL.
Applications lodged on and between Tues
day. the 25th. and Saturday, the 29th of
April. 1905. inclusive, will be dealt with
specially by the Local Board, sitting
at InyerelKon Tuesday, the 2nd May. 1905.
when it will be most expedient for all
applicants tube present in order that they
may present their cases fully, and that those
entitled may obtaiti jmssession of the land applied
for immediately after the Boards determination
Pamphlets, Plans, and further information of
the fullest kind, respecting the Estate, may be
obtained at thexiffices of all Crown Lands Agents
in the State amd ut the Inquiry Branch of the
Department of Lands, Sydney
SPECIAL CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS.
Notice is hereby given that the Railway
Commissioners will issue cheap Excursion Tickets
at the rate of Id. (one penny) a mile, one way,
second-class return, from any railway station in
the State to Inverell Minimum fare, 10s.
Tickets will issue to Inverell at any station in
the State of New South Wales from 19th April to
2nd May. inclusive, and will be available for return
up to 10th May inclusive.
These tickets will only be granted on production
of a certificate, signed by any Crown Lands Agent,
or other authorised official of the Lands Depart-
ment. that the purchasers are intending applicants
for land, and that they are travelling for that
purpose only.
/ {3dwotjiL
Sh 3 /<?<&


Specially noteworthy in the way of artistic
advertising are pages 28 and 29 of this issue of The
Bulletin, calling attention to the sale, under the
Closer Settlement Act, of the Myall Creek farms
in the Inverell Land District of W.S.W. The
Lands Department has adopted the idea of up-to-
date advertising as a means to attract the best
class of settler to the land offered under this and
future subdivisions. The scenes, from actual
photographs, show effectively the resources of
Myall Creek.
The Carruthers Government (N.S.W.) has
done the right thing in promptly appointing a
Royal Commission, with full power to inquire
into the administration of the Lands Department.
There is no impression in the public mind but
that of confidence in the present Lands Minister,
but it -has been made evident that a bad system
has grown up, which must be swept away. There
should be, in the future, no more land agents
• exacting toll from the man on the land.
Wolfe’s Schnapps counteracts the effect
■of bad liquors, bad beer, bad water. It cures the
troubles they bring on. Wolfe’s Schnapps : A
pure extract of selected barley and the curative
juniper berry, distilled in Holland.*
“S. A. 0. ” : Sydney Daily Telegraph, of
Ist instant, carefully reported Prof. David’s
remarks in criticism of the White Australia policy,
but omitted his qualification admitting the right
•of Australians to regulate alien influx so as to pre-
vent the swamping of a white nation. I note this
If act because, three years ago, the S.M. Herald
misreported the same speaker in connection with
the Prof. Wood incident, making him out to be
the ordinary Jingo intolerant, instead of the
broad-minded and tolerant thinker all ’Varsity
men know him to be.
“I was prospecting about two years ago in
search of a good piece of land to select. During my
explorations I chanced on an old digger’s hut between
Caramba and the fringe of the big Dorrigo scrub. In this
hut I found a bottle of Capilla Hair Tonic and as my hair
was falling at the time, I tried the ‘ Capilla ’ and I found
after using it a few times my hair ceased falling out—and
I assert positively that there is also a thick 1 down ’ all
over the part where my hair was so thin, and I have every
confidence that the * down ’ will develop into strong
healthy hair.” From Mr. W. Hunt, Bonviile, via Coffs
Harbor, N.S.W. All Chemists and Stores sell Capilla
2s. 6d. a bottle. Full course of 6 bottles posted 17s. 3d
from the Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
The Government award (gold medal) at the
Capetown Exhibition has been awarded to the “ Hornsby ”
Oil Engine. This engine has obtained every highest
award in the world-England, America, Australia, France
and Russia. Last year it secured the British Government
award of £lOOO. It is made in various types of fixed
portable, traction and marine; the latter are made in
suitable sizes for small pleasure craft, and in gradations
of H.P. up to 500 B.H.P. as supplied to the British navy.*
Better Get the Good Things.
You can buy a pair of boots for ten shillings,
or you may pay twenty or more. But cheap
things are cheap things just the same. If you get
ten shillings’ worth of wear out of the ten shilling
boots that’s all you will get.
Similarly you can buy a watch—made in Ger-
many, Switzerland, or America —for four or five
shillings, but it wont tell the truth about the-time.
I’ve got a watch on me this blessed minute that
I’ve carried for fifteen years, and it doesn’t vary at
all to speak of. But it cost twenty pounds;
merely a plain “ticker,” but honestly built from
mainspring to dial plate.
What I’m wanting to come at is this : The
thing which does the greatest service, the best
work, is worth the most money and wins the
highest reputation. That all will agree to ; nobody
disputes it.
Well, here is Mrs. Dorothy Pitts, who lives at
27 Hoddle-street, Melbourne, Victoria, who knows
something about cost and value. On January sth,
11)04, she wrote to the proprietors of Mother
Weigel s remedies, saying : “I was an extreme
sufferer for many years from indigestion. I had
severe pains in the back, tightness of the chest,
heart palpitations, and a most oppressive sense of
fulness and bloating, as of wind, after meals. I
could not eat or sleep, was low-spirited and weak,
and was so affected by dizziness that I was afraid
to walk to the next street. I always felt tired and
languid and was full of aches and pains.
“I tried everything people told me of, but got
no better until a friend, five years back, urged me
to try a bottle of Mother Weigel's Curative Syrup.
It relieved me at once, and after taking a few
bottles, together with a couple of boxes of Seigel’s
Operating Pills, I was quite cured. Now I am
quite well, sleep perfectly, and can eat my meals
with appetite and enjoyment. I take the precau-
tion of always having a bottle of Seigel’s at hand,
however, and I take a dose now and again as a
tonic. It keeps me cheerful, bright, active, and
in the best of health.”
Australians scarcely need to be reminded of the
merits of this remedy. It has been a household
friend among them for years. It is made of roots
and herbs which Nature has created to help the
sick and weak. Cases like this one are easy
victories for Mother Weigel’s Syrup, and perhaps
you know of one. This remedy is not only the
best, but it is sold at a reasonable price and is
worth ten times as much.*
MURRELLS & BECKER
are the largest makers of TRAVELLING
GOODS in the Commonwealth
360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
near Stock Exchange;
212 EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
Write for Catalogue B.
Price given to carry any article to your address.
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
62-58 Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and CO.,
Brisbane.
.
Catalogues Free.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
.SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds, j
' Of course you have System
in your office. BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write -for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
Amusements.
Princes’ Court, Melbourne.
THE PREMIfeR PLEASURE GROUND OP
AUSTRALASIA.
CANADIAN WATER-CHUTE,
CAMEL-BACK TOBOGGAN,
Cafe Chantant, Mysterious Myosa, Great Dragon
Tugaroo, Rifle Range, Japanese Tea House,
Military Band. Daily, 2.30 to 11 p.m.
A. L. BAIRD, Gen. Manager.
•s *
ime -Fruif Juice
The basis of which is “Montserrat 9 Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to Worcester
other Sauces*
—~f—
AGENTS -El I lott Bros. Ltd, J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & c*., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle. yoney.
Amusements.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF
NEW SOUTH WALES,
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW,
19th to 27th APRIL, 1905.
PRIZES £3500. PRIZES
SPECIAL EXCURSION TRAINS ALL LINES.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDN E Y.
* Lessee Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of the SEASON.
EIGHT FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of BLAND
HOLT’S Powerfully-cor structed Australian Drama,
THE BETTING BOOK,
or the
GAMBLING EVIL.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee & Manairer. Mr J. O. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in the Colossal
Attraction,
THE ORCHID.
For Brilliancy in Mounting-, Hilarity and Tunefulness
has never been surpassed in Sydney.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
E Y.
HALL,
SYDN
OWN
Commencing: GOOD FRIDAY NIGHT, APRIL 21,
AND SHORT SEASON TO FOLLOW,
THE FAMOUS
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
NEW ARTISTS, including
MR. CLARENCE TISDALE, a Tenor of Great Merit.
MR. EMMETT JONES,
One of America’s Leading BASSOS.
R. COLLINS, Manager.
WIRTH BROS.’
CIRCUS, HIPPODROME
AND
HUGE ZOO.
AUSTRALIA’S OLDEST, LARGEST, AND BEST
AMUSEMENT INSTITUTION.
DELIGHTFUL LOCATION, FRESH and GREEN—
Prince Alfred Park, Sydney
(EXHIBITION GROUND),
IN THE LARGEST TENTS EVER ERECTED.
OPENING SATURDAY, APRIL 15.
FOR TWO WEEKS ONLY.
FRESH WILD ANIMALS DIRECT FROM INDIA.
NEW IMPORTED ARTISTES DIRECT FROM EUROPE.
ADVERTISING ONLY WHAT WE HAVE.
TRUTHFULLY PERFORMING EVERYTHING
ADVERTISED.
By Keeping Our Word with You for 25 years we have
also Kept Your Confidence.
ID* - Full Particulars Next Issue.
DON’T FORGET LOCATION. Leave all Trams at Railway.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is. Chair in Private Boxes, 4s.
Private Box to seat five, £l. Plan at Paling’s.
TI V 6TI THEATRE, SYD NEY\
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
A HUGE SUCCESS, K _A. R _A_.
AN ARTISTIC TRIUMPH,
MISS ALICE PIERCE.
THE FOUR FIGAROS, HARRY TAFT, RESEDA
SEXTETTE, LIZZIE ANDERSON, ERNEST
WISEMAN, &c., &c.
OPERA HOUSE, ME LBO URN eT
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
LITTLE TICH
WORLD’S GREATEST
COMEDIAN.
PROF. DAVY’S GIANT MARIONETTES.
BELLA PERMAN, FRANK YORXE, MAUD PERMAN.
STEVE AOSON, Irish Comedian. JESSIE THOME, Serio
Comic. JAMES ROBERTS, Basso Vocalist.
WINTON, Ventriloquist, and M'CINTY.
Great Success of NAT TRAVERS, Coster Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
SCOTTISH ENTERTAINER
Miss Jean Howison, of Perth, Scotland,
Interpreter op
ROBERT BURNS and lAN MACLAREN.
Address : The Bulletin.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS in MELBOURNE of
Mr. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO. in
EAST LYNNE.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), APRIL 6, SPECIAL AID
PERFORMANCE.
Benefit of the Building Fund of St. Vincent Hospital.
POSITIVELY LAST 2 NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL. TS&
JULIUS GRANT, Manager.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOU RNE
SAT. NEXT, APRIL 3 (and FOLLOWING NIGHTS),
GRAND REVIVAL of Offenbach’s Great Military
Spectacular Comic Opera,
La Fille du Tambour Major.
Exceptionally Powerful Cast of Distinguished Artists.
Prices of Admission—4s., 2s. 6d., 2s. & Is. Early Door Is.
Extra. Box Plan at Allan’s ; opening MONDAY,
APRIL 3, at 9 a.m.
J_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS in Melbourne of Mr. JULIUB KNIGHT
and Miss MAUD JEFFRIES.
APRIL 8 .. PYGMALION AND GALATEA (3 Nights Only).
APRIL 12, GRAND FAREWELL PERFORMANCE,
THE LADY OF LYONS.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES,
WEDNESDAYS.
“ pRINCES’ COURT,” MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO WEEKS !
MISS ANNETTE
KELLERMANN,
PRIOR to HER DEPARTURE for EUROPE.
A HISTORY OF THE
N.S.W. State Railways
r THE COUNCIL OF THE RAILWAYS INSTITUTE, in
order to mark the Jubilee of Railways in this State,
offers a prize of TWENTY GUINEAS for the best ESSAY
on above subject. Length, about 20,000 words. Essays
to reach the Secretary of Railway Institute not later than
the Ist of JULY, 1905, marked “ Competition Essay.” A
n °m ae plume onty to be written on the paper. Name
and address of writer in sealed envelope to accompany
each Essay. _ Competent Judges will be appointed.
1 reference will be given to the Essay which combines
historical essentials with general attractiveness. Suc-
cessful Essay to become the property of the Railway
Institute. J
J. C. HARFORD,
Gen. Hon. Secretary.
THE BALLET GIRL
&
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fras, 1s
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Poet Froe, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties•
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Piver’s
Lc
Trefle
Incarnat
(crimson clover)
SOLE AGENTS I
MIDDOWS BROTHERS,
SYDNEY.
AND AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE
PERTH, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
Tlodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
* T SAY, Jim ! Where did you stay when you went over
to Melbourne last ? ”
“ Oh ! at the
“FALSTAFF” Restaurant
SPENCER STREET,
Opposite Railway Offices.
I found it all right, clean and comfortable, handy to
railways and boats. Could get a hot bath when I wanted
it, and could be called any time by Night Porter.
Smoking Room ; 6 a.m. Breakfast. Board and Resh
dence, 16s. and £l. Single Bedrooms, Is. 6d. Double
Bedrooms, 3s. Meals, 6d. and 9d. Try it.”
A Limited Number of Single Bedrooms are available
at Is. per night, or ss. weekly, with every
convenience. Tel. 1281.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNIE
Will find every comtoru and convenience at—
MRS, TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, a to 5 Beaconsfield Parade.
ST. KILDA.
r |IHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
A the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
Creswick Hotel
Bligh & Bent
Sts., Sydney.
Excellent Bachelors' Quarters. A Real English
Home. TERMS MODERATE.
PROPRIETRESS^^
MRS. M. J. CHANCELLOR.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Dr. C. W. McCarthy, in the course of a long- letter (for
all of which we cannot find room) :—l!e Maud M'Carthy’s
late London symphony concerts (the success of which, by
the bye, has led to important engagements in Germany,
S’Africa, etc.), your remarks on the London Referee
criticism show true (praise omitted). There is, how-
ever, an inaccuracy in the statement that the public
did not support these concerts; on the contrary,
both concerts were exceptionally well supported,
and left a considerable margin of’profit, after having
covered an expenditure of six hundred pounds.
(This was, 1 learn, the first venture in the
symphony concert line by any solo artist in London.)
** Warmth of feeling” of the true kind, as you imply, is
not wanting in Maud M'Carthy’s playing, judging by the
flattering newspaper notices of her late concerts, the
London Times, for instance, crediting her with “ the fire
and buoyant spirit that so few violinists can attain.” The
fact that “ she was recalled no fewer than five times ”
(Daily Mail) proves her capability for arousing her audi-
ence, even by that admittedly cold and severe music of
Brahms. This “ fire,” however, which the Times and
other papers speak of, is not the smoky embers of grovel-
ling sentiment, which, as you say, “appeals to the more
fleshly musical world,” but the clear, pure flame of
spiritualised emotion. I'm glad The Bulletin aims for
high ideals in Art as in other things. Music being the
direct outward expression of inner emotion, the interpre-
tation of its higher classical forms should be, but often is
not, distinctly “ virginal ” and soul-lifting. This would
generally be in accordance with “the intentions of the
composer,” and I am sure, notwithstanding the Referee’s
hint to the contrary, that the great Brahms’ “inten-
tions ” in his celebrated Concerto, as interpreted by Maud
M'Carthy, were not otherwise.
The coon song, which in its virile youth elbowed off the
boards the senile coster ditty, waits now in awful de-
crepitude to be shoved into a corner by some newer
craze. At first the coon song had some measure of
plaintive melody and poetic thought to recommend it.
Now its music is almost as idiotic and trashy as its dreary
and hackneyed phrases.
Melbourne will have a busy musical time this winter.
In addition to the usual five or six Saturday afternoon
■concerts under Marshall Hall’s direction, there is to be a
series of evening Orchestrals with Prof. Peterson on the
•conductor’s perch. Watkin Mills and his concert co.—a
very strong co.—are due some time during the cold
weather, likewise the Westminster Glee Party and
Hermann, the violinist, a notable European performer
who will help to encourage the subsequent Kubelik boom’
The great Kubelik reaches Melbourne early in September!
Leon Caron has sufficiently regained his health to
the conductorship of the Repertory Co. now
touring New Zealand.
The coming sensation of London music-halls is to be a
man who, 20 years ago, butchered his employer, an old
lady, and, three times, ineffectively stood on the gallows-
trap, which each time refused to work, leading to his
reprieve. His “ life ” sentence having now been worked
out, he has big offers to appear in public—w-ith an ex-
ihangman, if possible.
Marzella’s performing birds have annoyed the Adelaide
Jews. At a performance at the Theatre Royal a parrot
was told to pick out the Hebrew flag, and promptly
obeyed, unfurling a flag showing on one side an emblem
sacred to the Jews and on the other a pawnbroker’s sign.
It’s a bold theatrical who dares the anger of the Hebrews
—the best supporters of the theatre in Australia—and it
wasn’t surprising that this act was “cut” after the first
night. Madame is, by birth, Russian.


A NOTABLE COLLECTION OF RINGS.
Order by Mail. Wa can serve
you just as satisfactorily as
if you came and bought in
person. Wa have but the one
pricey and that is the lowest
that goods of equal merit can
be sold at.
6
E
Our Eight stores in the eight
principal cities of Australasia
are wonderfully well equipped
to supply you with everything
likely to be found in an up-to-
date Jeweller’s and at prices
not to be bettered anywhere.
sga T STEWART DAWSON’S a£s ss. Ring sells for £5 ss. We don’t say our price is away below the real value of the article, but because we have
Ipa such an immense turnover (our eight stores, one in each of the principal cities of Australasia—Sidney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland;
Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin —are the leading ones), and our customers pay but the one profit, Stewart Dawson Jewellery is lower-priced
than that of other reliable houses. When we add that every article we sell is unreservedly guaranteed, and that we have enjoyed the public
confidence for 33 years, you will understand why our record in trade is a history of sticbess. .
Except where specified, all the Rings shown here are of 18ct. Gold. All Stones are genuine and ol good quality. Write for our free Catalogues,
mentioning what you specially require, as tve have new goods in every week, and naturally want to tell you of the latest things.
FB7lS—Diamonds, Rubies,
Pearls, Emeralds,
Sapphires, £7 7s.
G 5287-10 Diamonds. £lllos
Gs3oo—Rose Diamond and
Sapphires, £1 2s. Gd.
G 2793—5 Opals, 5 Rabies,
£2 7s. Cd.
G 2628—3 Diamonds.
£3.
62791—8 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
1 Pearl, £4 10s,
174—4 Diamonds, 3
Sapphires, £7 10s.
s—Wedding- Ring, £2.
G 4312—2 Opals, £1 7s. 6d.
F 7305—5 Pearls, £2 10s.
G 2792—2 Diamonds,
3 Emeralds, £3 3s.
B|
i
04815-
Diamonds & 3 Pearls, £5.
181—Diamonds and
Sapphires, £7 10s.
20—1 Opal, £4 10s.
G4Bl1 —1 Opal, £1 10s.
27—1 Opal, £2 10s.
FlC37—4 Diamonds,
2 Rubies, £3.
G4Bl6—Rubies, Roses, and
Whole Pearl, £4.
G 5192—4 Diamonds, 4
Olivines, £8 Bs.
3—Wedding Ring, £1 ss.
G4SlO—3 Turquoises,
£1 lCs.
F 9278—2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £2 10s.
G 26 !8 —2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £3.
163—5 Diamonds,
£5 ss.
635 S9 —10 Diamonds,
1 Pearl, 1 Sapphire, £8 10s.
(*7536— 9ct. Gold Signet,
£1 ss.
E 7458—2 Diamonds,
3 Rubles, £ll2s. (id.
F 9355—3 Diamonds,
£2 H)s.
G 6288—2 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, £3 10s.
F 5328—4 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, £5 10s.
G 3906—5 Diamonds
£lO 10s.
21—1 Opal, £4 10s.
F 5419 —2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £2.
G2Bll- Pearls & Turqucise,
£2 15s.
361—2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £3 10s.
G4:363—10 Diamonds,
£6 6s.
G53"27—9 Diamonds,
2 Rubies, £l2 10s.
23—1 Opal, £3 10s.
(54444—2 Diamonds,
1 Emerald, £2 ss.
C29l6—Finest Opals, £3.
s
IA'U
G 4815—
Rose Diamonds, 1 Opal £3/15
D 4607—2 Diamonds,
1 Ruby, £6 10s.
177 Carved Keeper,
£1 10s.
: .
22—1 Opal £4 4s.
05425—5 Opals, £2 ss.
G 3!. r >7—2 Diamonds,
2 Rubies, £2 1-0?.. .<■
G 2542—12 Rubies,
3 Diamonds, £4 10s.
F 8695—5 Diamonds, Rubies
and Sapphires, £6 10s.
0872 —Rheumatic Ring,
Zinc, Copper, Steel, 2/6.
C2o37—Opal Heart, 2
Diamonds, £2 10s.
or
: ’
WALKING
P
MOTOR
-PiQ'Sfiiix
£9
s
Browiv
Hide
ft
Sencfjfar
ROTH WELL’S
Only Address: EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
Tiia Best Value 8 6 TERAI HAT
in the Commonwealth. 9/6 post paid. All Shades.
BRISBANE’S BIG HAT STORE. [2
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, 8d
Cbe
Premo
- Film J?ack -
The Adapter. The Film Pack.
May be fitted by means of an Adapter
to any existing Camera at the cost of
a few shillings, and will enhance its
value at least 50 per cent.
The simplest DAYLIGHT changing
device ever devised.
Send for Film Pack Booklet & mention this paper.
Kodak, Ertd.,
284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And of All Dealers.
Don't
waste time in V
experimenting. \
Thirty Years 9
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
OiiJridgcs
£ungTonfc
i to be the WORLD'S CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
, and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can b 3 ob tain ad from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
The “GOERZ” Binocular
FIELD GLASS*
The FINEST GLASS IN THE WORLD.
Good for any Distance up to 20 Miles.
SUITABLE. FOR TOURIST, RAGES,
MARINE, MILITARY, and all uses, and
absolutely invaluable to the Squatter.
Price £8 10s.
Size No. 9— that is, magnifying nine times as
much as the ordinary Field-Glass.
In Solid Leather Case, with Name
or Initials stamped in Gold.
A LIMITED NUMBER ONLY AT THIS PRICE.
OSBORN & JERDAN,
“My Opticians
393 GEORCE ST., SYDNEY
THE JEWELLER,
Watchmaker & Silversmith,
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne*
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT FOR
WALTHAM WATCHES.
FREE. —The best and most complete Catalogue
published in Australia of Watches,- Jewellery and
Plated Goods posted free on application.
\
%
r
. S
No. 446.
GENT’S STERLING SILVER HUNTING
KEYLESS WALTHAM WATCH,
Compensation Balance, Fully Jewelled, Extra Heavy
Case. Specially made for the Australian climate.
Guaranteed in writing for 3 years. Post Free to any
part of Australia—
M ET /
■twa
DEAF
By using the Wilson Cora,
moil Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
| tressing head noises write
I for full particulars. Thou-
sand have found this the
first, step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress—Star Novelty Co.,
2-29-231 Collins-st., Melt).
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price, Gel. ; Posted, Bd..


“Em”: Re prohibiting publication of
certain divorce court particulars, The Bulletin
“ is inclined to think Mr. Justice Walker is right.”
Yes; and why shouldn’t other judges have power
to prohibit publication of gruesome details of
murders and suicides? What good purpose can
they serve ? On the other hand, these details
attach themselves to the imagination, and time
and opportunity only are needed for the well*
developed brain picture to reproduce itself in
action. Here’s my case. Some years ago a cash
of suicide was so fascinatingly pourtrayed that it
has haunted me ever since, and I know, if ever I
deem it desirable to say goodbye to the world,
every detail of that old report will be followed.
N.S.W. Public Service Board, in its
anxiety to popularise its pet fad, the £3OO a year
examination, has announced that in future the
happy persons who pass it are entitled to dub
themselves P.S.G. Public Service Graduate.
The book-worms, who, in some cases, scamp their
work in order to cram up the ’ologies required
for the exam., would cheerfully forfeit the hit of
alphabet-slice chucked in, if only they could lay
their hands on the £3OO a year, for which they
qualified by passing: the test. They have found
that passing the exam, and raising their screws
are two very different things. Let the Board
guarantee the higher salary for thosfe who sufccfeed.
That will certainly popularise the examination.
The N.Q. squatters, stockmen, and
Chinese, who used to live in open concubinage
with black gins, are now debarred from this
by a remorseless Government. Consequently,
in place of keeping a gin only, they are forced
now to support a gin plus an alleged abori-
ginal husband—whose business it is to serve as
a cloak to the white or yellow boss who suns
himself in the black lady’s smiles. Another
feature resulting from the compulsory marriage
business now obtaining in the North is that a
native woman will wed a Kanaka, live with him
ua wife, and serve at the same time as wife to
Other Kanakas. Q. Government’s well-meant
action has certainly resulted in more matrimony,
btit by rt'j oleins less immorality.
“ GRAND PRIX ” PARIS 1900.
The Highest Possible Award.
JOSEPH GILLOTT’S
PENS.
Highest Quality, and Having Greatest
Durability, are therefore
CHEAPEST.
SOLD
BY
Book of Nature and Illustrated Jlarriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. I)r. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is (sd. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Bo: ino, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How t . Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Maris
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiib
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Od posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is (id. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybdok, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
SecreTs, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Alak'E Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Like,
10s (id. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 30 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Kitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
gost. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
.epairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man Prom Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
po«‘*d. Every Man His (wn Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s (id. On Our
Hew Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, ter - Established !0 Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my . ...„
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Sd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Look of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. M> roan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, I'd posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d oost. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling C;rds, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full a rect ons, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s Pd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London- Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, is Cd post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore's Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Od posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wanxan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s Cd posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
Making Money
I wns born on a Maine farm. 1 bare made some
great successes in business. My greatest through
Co-operation;
I took $l. §O6 (j£3G6:2;G) capital, supplied by
Farmers. Wo'meii, Physicians, Clerks, Clergymen,
etc., in Belfast; Maine, find in an honest, but very
profitable busijifesjs, earned afltl paid them through
BELFAST NATIONAL BANK; $5,00Q (j£1,C20:8;2)
in Cash dividends in the first sixmonthg, $25,C00
(£5,102:0:10. in cash dividends ,-within the belt
year, and in 18 months I paid them irt toflhd
numbers $330,000.00 (£07,340:19:2) C/tsH.
Every 4s. Earned £44:17$
This is HISTORY. Ronds
like n fairy tale but it is
TRUE. I made poor
poopie rich. Tlioy helped
me earn the riches. Just
read that over again. I
had $1,900. I earned
and paid my stockholders
$330,000 in cash in IS
months. Every stock-
holder got their share.
That's my Way of doing
business. Ton must be-
lieve this statement is
TRUE, for, if 1 were lying,
I wouldn’t tell you the
place where I earned the
money, and the BANK
where it was paid.
X have learned the great
Value of the right kind of
co-operation, learned how
to make money fast in an
honest, profitable busi-
ness from which millions
aro made every year.
E. F. Hanson, Ex-Mayor ness of the same kind,
of Belfast, Me USA only my field isthe world.
Ux Pros' B' & M Lit II It is incorporated under
JLx-i res. 15. & lvi. 1,. li. it. tho lawg of tho Bt{lte 0 f
Maine and the U. S. Gov’t. The Stockholders are
absolutely protected from any liability. They are
safe guarded by law. My plan one of extended co-
operation. Stockholders everywhere who can give
me information and lend their INFLUENCE. The
dividends must be large. #
I already have 4,000 stockholders in the IT. b.,
Canada, England, Culm, Mexico, Sandwich Islands,
Gibraltar, etc. I want a few more. The shares
are going fast. You can invest 4s. or £IOO.
Monthly payments, if you w<sh. It will be safe
and we will make it grow. This is nogambling
or “shady” scheme. It’s legitimate business.
Yon will be treated squarely and honestly.
I place 30 years of untarnished business record
behind that statement. I only ask you In your
own interest to INVESTIGATE. You shall have all
the Proof you want. References, Bankers, Bus-
iness Men, Church and Public Officials, etc. Send
your address on a postal card. It will pledge
you to nothing. It may mean your fortune. I
will send a 24-page book,
“A guide to MI Pockets,”
FREE. I Will pay the postage. Don’t be “A Brother
to the Ox.” Stop plodding. Lift your head long
enough to ask me to prove every statement in this
ad. This is your opportunity, don’t miss it. Don’t
Wait if vou want something better than you have got.
E. E. Hanson, 142-lfO W. Madison Stroet,
Chicago, 111., U. S. A.
Nine Facts of Vital importance to Every Sufferer from Blood Disorders,
FACT ONE.—It takes tims to tell whether you are per-
manently cured by a treatment, or merely patched up for
the present.
FACT TWO.—The Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical
Institute is the only Medical Association in existence that has
been treating- Blood Poison long enough to know that its
patients are cured to stay cured.
FACT THREE.—The Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical
Institute has many patients who were cured by its magical
treatment eighteen years ago, who are to-day grand and well.
FACT FOUR.—Many patients that were cured by the Free-
man & Wallace Institute a quarter of a century ago now have
children grown to manhood and womanhood in perfect health
and without a blemish.
FACT FIVE.—The Freeman & Wa'laee Electro-Medical
Institute is the largest and only successful combine in Aus-
tralia that makes the cure of Biood Poison a specialty.
FACT SlX.—Patients cured by the Freeman & Wallace
Electro-Medical Institute are constantly passing successfully
the very rigid examinations of the most conservative life
insurance companies, and are passing the examinations for
admission into the army and navy of the Empire.
FACT SEVEN.—If you take the Freeman & Wallace Electro-
Medical treatment under our guarantee you are absolutely
sure of a cure, or your money back.
FACT EIGHT. —Every other method of treatment known
to the medical profession gives but temporary relief.
FACT NINE.—Cood health is the most important thing in
the world to any person.
THE ABOVE NINE FACTS ABE ABSOLUTELY UNDENIABLE!.
TESTIMONIALS.
Bairnsdale, lsfc December, 1903.
I saw your advertisement in the paper
as to cure of Blood Poison, and desire to
seek your advice. I have talked with
several persons who speak highly of the
Institute, and one of them said you
effected a permanent cure in his case. I
have doctored in vain for some years to
rid myself of this terrible disease, and
have spent no end of money ; I have now
decided to adopt your treatment, as I see
you guarantee to cure.
(Signed) W. B. ARTHUR.
ANOTHER GRATEFUL PATIENT
WRITES :
“ Your last course of medicine I finished
some three weeks ago, and am feeling
line. The horror of Blood Poison has
about left me. Occasionally, however,
I can notice a faint feeling, as though my
throat was becoming sore again. I
noticed this when lifting something
heavy, or whenever I strain the muscles
of my neck. I have no other indication
except this, and there is only one living
soul and you who know what I have gone
through. I think another course will
about banish all remaining symptoms. I
thank you for your kindly efforts, and
you may depend" upon it I shall always
have pleasure in recommending your
Institute.”
Mr. DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P., at one
time a Minister of the Crown, a well-
known politician of Sydney, says :
“ I have undergone a course of your
Electro-Medical treatment for an attack
of Lumbago and Kidney Pains. Thanks
to the efficacy of that treatment I am
now considerably improved.”
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL INSTITUTE solicits the most
obstinate cases, and challenges the world for a case it cannot cure. This disease has always baffled
the skill of the most eminent physicians. For many years the Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical
Institute has made a specialty" of treating this disease, and it has unlimited capital behind its
unconditional guarantee.
You can be treated at home for the same price, and with the same guarantee. With those
who prefer to go to it the Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical Institute will contract to cure them,
or pay railroad and hotel bills, and make no charge failing to cure.
* The Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical Institute has a specific for blood poison, and cures it
even in its worst forms. It is a perfect antidote for the powerful virus that pollutes the blood and
penetrates to all parts of the system. Unless you get this poison out of your blood it will ruin ;vou,
and bring disgrace and disease upon your children, for it can be transmitted from, parent to child.
Write for our FREE home treatment book, “ Clinical Experiences,” 600 pages, if you have not
already received it, and learn all about contagious blood poison. If you want medical advice, give
a history of your case, and our Physician-in-Chief, who is registered by Australian, English, and
American Medical Boards, will furnish all the information you wish, without any charge whatever.
Your health depends on The Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical Institute, and on them
alone. Its cure is a certainty. No other method of treatment will cure you.
We Cure with Certain Success,
DEADLY VARICOCELE, RUPTURE, PILES,
PROSTATSC AiLiViENTS, INSOMNIA,
LOCAL INFLAMMATIONS, WEAKNESS,
NERVOUSNESS, LOSS OF VITAL POWER,
BLADDER and KIDNEY AILMENTS.
FACTS THAT DEFY ARGUMENT.
XyE are treating- thousands of cases
’’ annually, and is. it not reasonable
to suppose that we understand such cases
better than those who are treating only
a few hundred ? Practice makes perfect
in any line, and it is none the less true in
the treatment of disease. You get the
benefit of Experience when you place
your case in our hands. Do not despair.
Order your treatment at once, and let us
add your name to our long list of cures.
* -;>s -X -Se-
lf the slightest doubt exists in your
mind that our treatment will not cure
you, it is a duty you owe to yourself to
write to some of the references we herein
publish, and send an addressed envelope
for reply. Ask any of the attestants who
have given these testimonies to us if they
think we can benefit you. VVe court the
closest investigation. Our Parcel Post
System is a blessing to all sick men living
in centres far from medical men and aid.
Thousands of men would now be in their
graves had we not so treated them.
* * * #
We will explain how and why we can
cure you, and why DISEASES OF MEN
require the knowledge and skill of Ex-
pert Master Specialists. There are cer-
tainly grave reasons why certain diseases
demand special treatment. Wlmre they
are of extreme delicacy, involving deli-
cate parts of the human anatomy', a
Specialist only should undertake to cure.
Inexperienced treatment is malpractice
in its worst form, and may result in death.
SK- -:K- * _ f
We have several expert Specialists who
are paid high salaries in order to treat
you. Come personally if you can ;if
you cannot call, write fully the nature
and symptoms of your ailment ; a, quick
and certain cure is always possible by
our perfect Correspondence System. A
man may be treated in his own house by
this method as well as if he visited the
Specialists personally'. We make no
charge for friendly talks. Read the
testimonies here published. They prove
our skill and honesty, and guarantee our
reliability in intricate medical cases.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and
SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
Cor. ELIZABETH &. BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., R.R.C.P., K, Physician-in-Ohief.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Principal Department of Women.
AND AT
MELBOURNE


Australian
Establish*:!) 1349.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Seourlty or Freehold or
Leasehold lilty or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold andC.P. {Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Kbentures"'lnsoribe°d StocVor Treasury Bills of any of the Austral Uri States or New Zealand^
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent of tile loan durin"- anv vear, without notice or payment of any frne.
Directors— Thomas l.rm.E.mnN, Esq.. Chairman ; The Hon. A, W Mms M hC
Esq. ; Senator J. T. YVai.kkr ; Jamks Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Bhack, M.L.C. , E. Winghcomisr, Esq., ai.ua.
General Manager and Actuary — Richard Tekck, F.I. A., F.F.A., F - s - s - pamitrak
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Wire Cloth Weavers.
St:
mm
ixnrm
Makers of all Kinds ..
sue., iron, ofWoveWire
Galvanised, Copper, and Brass.
WE HAKE A SPECIALITY OF
HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
We have the BEST MEN and
LATEST MACHINERY.
*
We would be pleased to get in communication with
those interested in Wire Cloth.
WE WILL BE FOUND QUICK, CIVIL, OBLIGING AND CHEAP.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 #> 411 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Factories: 633 A George St, and Albion Lane.
P.O. Box 868. Telephone 2075.
f (X, t
mfzi
3s.
irss fmtwm-
seS
FISHING
Only the Highest Quality
Fishing Tackle stocked-
mmu i W'llsw —l'liiin
SF YOU WANT THE BEST,
SEND FOR OUR L/STS.
WE HAVE SUPPLIED ANGLERS
FOR FIFTY YEARS.
WE ARE PURELY AND SIMPLY
A FISHING TACKLE SHOP.
EASTWAY BROTHERS
409 & 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
POST CARD
POM CARD
B P«SBW
1
SE5p
r«
<CARD (i
MM
-r
■;"
Af'
TO INTRODUCE Ot'R, NEW
PICTORIAL POST CARDS, best Id. Post Cardin Australia
As a hmre advertisement we will forward to anyone sending t eir
name and address, 120 of our best Id. post cards free Anyone may
send. We want no money. We merely ask you to sell these post cards
am on first your friends in packets of six at 6d per packet. After selling
the cards (which «ill not take lon-) you return the 10s. and we send
vou any present you may choose from a list we send. By continuing
the* sale of these cards you may earn a Solid Sterling Si ver Watch
(Lady’s or Gent's!. We take all risks. Cards returnable if not sold.
Send at once to THE PICTORIAL POST CARD CO.,
Rk: Falmouth Chambers,
svrinpv. N.S. Wales.
HARDY’S
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes*
Sydney and Adelaide.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
X, Id.
SYISKTET,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SH - EPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
| Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application. _
A CASE AT MARRICKVILLL
A VERY CONVINCING NARRATIVE.
The Case of
Mrs. C. COOPER.
(By a Special .Reporter.)
The physical condition of a large
proportion of the public makes con-
tinual appeal to the sympathies of the
thoughttul and kind, who are ever on
the alert to render aid where it is re-
quired. In an interview with our re-
presentative Mrs. Caroline Cooper, of
No. 3 Kitzroy-street, Marrickville
oives some information to the afflicted
which should help them considerably.
11 er statement runs as follows
“ JVly health is altogether diherent
now to what it was some years ago,
as there was a time when L was no-
but a total wreck, and now peo-
ple are always telling me how well
and strong l look. _Ves. I am not
like the same person at all. for now
1 am always contented and happv in-
stead of being intensely miserable like
1 used to be. But Heaven knows i
had enough to make me so, for the
pains in my head were so great that,
many a day L hardly Knew what l was
doing. In each temple there was a
nasty beating sensation, which caused
me so much agony that otten i
thought t would a ,rely go mad.
“ton would welcome the arrival oi
bed-time, so that you could sleep and
forget your atllictions lor a while t
suggested the writer.
■•uno would naturally think so, out
I didn’t, for the simple reason that
roi hi s ’ldom get any sleep, and oh
how those hours of wakefulness used
to wear me out ! Truly, when I got
up of a morning l felt worse than it
I had not been in bed at all, and l
alwavs had a bitter taste to make me
feel seek for the rest of the day. Some-
times 1 got so thoroughly exhausted
that it would have been impossible to
wake had 1 tr.ed to, but knowing how
weak l was 1 used to stay indoors to
be on the safe side, for when one is
like that it is such an easy thing to
meet with a serious acciuont. And
another thing, 1 was accustomed to
taking fits of giddiness, and otten J
wont "right, oil and did not know any-
thing that was going on, so you see
i had to be care.uf. And wasn t 1 ,
nervous ? Goodness ! I only had to
hear a little shout or a whistle and
l d actually jump again, and it would
be a long time auerwards beiore my
nerves would steady down a bit. And
i used to have the same shakuicss ol
my nerves when .1 woke up from what-
ever little sleep I chanced to get,
which, by-the-way, was always punc-
tuated with the most awful dreams
that made me shudder to think of af-
terwards, and J d find myself covered
with cold perspiration, too. Uh : those
were nights ox hoiror if you like, and
i do pray that none of mine will ever
sutler ip the same way. Why, my
mind was so unhinged through exces-
sive nervousness that i was afraid to
be leio atone, and would not have
stayed in the dark for a fortune ; be-
sides, if 1 closed my feyeis tor a lew
seconds all sorts of ugly faces could
bo seen, and those were the Kind oi
hideous sights 1 usually witnessed in
my dreams."
"Have you any idea what caused
your head pains and other ailments i
• x think it was all through receiving
a sunstroke when a girl at my home
in Uoulburn, for the doctor said 1
would always sulfer with my head, and
tne older l got the worse it would be.
Other doctors treated me afterwards,
and they all said what a dreadful
state my ner.es were in, and also
that mv digestion was as bad as it
could be; and the unfortunate part of
the whole affair was that their phy-
sics could not help me any. Rowdsrs.
medicines, pills galore, and no bene-
ficial result whatever—not, I can say
with truth, up to the period when 1
purchased some Clements Tonic
through a friend’s advice, and then,
for the first time during my long ill-
ness, I iearned what it was to get
some substantial ease from my tor-
ments. At first l thought the relief
would be only short-lived. It seemed
too much to expect anything else af-
ter the disappointments of the past ;
but Clements Tonic soon put an end
to that pessimistic idea by making me
feel better and stronger every day, and
when L realised that my improvement
was making such regular strides, my
heart was overflowing with gratitude.
It is only right you should know that
besides the medicines my doctors had
ordered 1 had taken a large variety
of other mixtures bought from chem-
ists, and when Clements Tonic was
the only one amongst the- lot that
could do mo good it is but just and
proper that the truth should be ad-
mitted. Nothing l had ever tried be-
fore could make me eat like Clements
'lonic did, and 1 assure you my appe-
tite had been very poor for months
and the case that came to my head
after a few bottles’ use of that re-
medy was something to make me
thankful for the rest of my days. The
pains in that quarter eventually sub-
sided altogether, and the dillcrencc in
my life then compared to what
it had been was just the dilior-
ence existing between night and
dav. Continuing with Clements lo-
nic T lost the burdensome feel-
ings that affected me after taking
food, and soon the windy spasms that
had often doubled me up were quite
cured. It had been my unhappy lot to
have a feohng in the chest as if 1 had
swallowed something hard and im-
movable —something that kept the
breath back and almost smothered me;
but Clements Tonic did away with
that trouble, too, and also gave me
permanent relief from the pains that
used to locate themselves between my
shoulders and about the small of my
back. My eyes bad always felt dull
and swollen, and 1 used to be irritable
and anxious from morning till night,
fearing that something was going to
happen ; but, strange as it may seem,
after using a few bottles of Clements
ionic my mind became as free from
anxious thoughts as a babes, it gave
me a sense of lightheartedness that had
been lost to me for years, but such
could only be expected to follow alter
so much good had been realised. 1
am glad to say that Clements Tonic
left nothing undone, for it gave me a
digestion that has remained sound for
many years past, and in regard to
nervousness —well, i hardly know how
to express thyself. At all events, 1
can say that my nervous weaknesses
were soon overcome, and if anybody
suffers from sleeplessness there’s nolb-
in°- in this world they need take but
Clements Tonic to make their nights
peaceful and refreshing. That remedy
succeeded in giving me perfect health,
and 1 would rather have a bottle ol
Clements Tonic in. the house than any-
th! ng else; so would my husband.”
‘‘He has used it too, then V”
“My word, yes ! and thinks the
world of it. He has used Clements
Tonic and Ur. Fletcher’s Pills, and
swears bv them. VV&ll, 1 hope others
in need will read my story, so you
may publish it as you feel disposed.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION'.
T CAROLINE COOPER, of 3 Fltzroy-
Btr'eet, Marrickvjlle, In tbs State of New
conth Wales. Common wealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read tbe annexed document, consist-
mr of fire folios and consecutively numbered
fronton, to five, and tbat it contains and
Is a true and faithful account o£ my ill-
ness and cure by Clements Tonic, aod also
contains my full permission to publish m any
..,iv my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment ; and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believ-
iDg the same to be true, and by virtue of tbe
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Enmore this
seventeenth day of November, one thousand
nine hundred and four, before me,
F. A. DRURY, J.T
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
Ib Bulk Mid Bofctl® ar® universally acknowledged
TO OE3TY COMPETITION,
WINES *• Bed 0 " i * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, ka.
Kent Brewery, SYDWETT,
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
Works: Birminarham, England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
j paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN SYDNEY CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 24
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 10
PRINCE OP WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 5
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tas., June 5
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
Races w« er i R I. U ? RY 1 ’ 1905 ’ the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
5S * Ts &ket, and 4d. on each IQs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances
LICENSE «OVE R ,NMENT h “ AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
DELITFRT CO So" h “ P ( "ZVnf mano S e “ ent “ tm »™»l past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
CO' C ° ing t> usiness HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
n
O
O
UB
e
</£
UJ
ce
X
UJI
mb£]
HU
O
BS :
eg
flu
mEss
flEll
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
1
““H
■■fig
THE WAY I DO MY BUYING
When the days’ work l’ve
tune to remember that the boys or
myself want some New. Clothing I
just sit down comfortably and write to
LINCOLN,/;
STUART « Col
FLINDERS STREET. MELBOURNE (//
for their book “The Philosophy of Dress’ 1 and"
some patterns of cloths, of which they send
me a great variety by return of post, I then
read the book and see what will suit me.
Haying made my selection, and come to a
decision, I send them the order on the : r
special Measure Form, when finished, the goods
are sent to me and the Carriage is prepaid.
I find by this plan that I buy just as well a 3
u I was in town, and am splendidly fitted
and suited in every way.
To oblige the Firm I always tell them
which paper J saw their advertisement in.
/
Write to-day
for
Patterns
and the Book.
201.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
TECS FAMOUS ZEiSIUEJLiJJLi'Sr
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF AMY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine .are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
t oieness in tue Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most corn-
er lngina aymg nutation m the thi-oat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never men viiown o exmt \\ mie Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
ancl a Complete Cure is certain. ° '
BEWARE COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BKOHCHITIS.
A Sydney Stock and Share Broker expresses
Gratitude and'Appreciation of Heariie’s ;
Bronchitis Cure.
It proved a most effective remedy for a
severe attack of Bronchitis,
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I lately had a severe
attack of Bronchitis, and, acting on the advice of a friend,
obtained a supply of your Bronchitis Cure. lam pleased
to inform you it has proved a most effective remedy,
causing me to feel grateful to you for furnishing such a
valuable medicine to the public. May you meet with the
success you so well deserve. I place this communica-
tion at your service, and remain, Dear Sir, Yours
faithfully, HENRY FRENCH,
Stock and Share Broker, 93 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ASTHMA.
A Five Years case.
At times very bad indeed.
Quickly and completely Cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis and Asthma Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —For five or six years I was
troubled with asthma, at times very bad indeed. 1 was
very ill just after Christmas, so sent to the local chemist
for a bottle of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I took
the first dose on going to bed, and was not troubled that
night. I finished the medicine, and have not had a
touch of the asthma since. I tell everyone about it.
M. MURRAY.
Postmistress, Pampoolah, Manning River, N.S.W.
HAY ASTHMA.
A Severe Attack Eelieved in Ten Minutes
by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
The Effect was "Wonderful.
Mr. W. G. Hearne Dear Sir, —About three weeks ago,
•while in the vicinity of musty chaff, I gradually felt
a difficulty to breathe. My nose began to run, and to all
appearances I was developing a severe attack of Bron-
chitis or Asthma. At last I could stand it no longer. I
then tried your Bronchitis Cure, and its effect was
wonderful. In less than ten minutes I was all right
again. Such a result, and so quick, astounded me.
This is no exaggeration, I am pleased to say.—Yours
truly, S. H. MAYO, Meredith, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A Sydney Resident Suffered for Over Sixty
Years.
So Bad He Dared Hot Stir.
Relieved in a Few Minutes by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Would Give £5O for the Same Benefit rather
than Suffer.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Friend,—Chronic Bronchitis I had from birth, and
I am now 66 years old. Some time back I contracted
Asthma, and for months I was so bad that any remedy
that had previously relieved smothering was of no use to
me. I was so bad that I dared not stir, and spent the
worst night I ever had. When, in a conversation, Mr.
Marsh, J.P., of Balmain, Sydney, kindly told me that a
friend of his was using your Bronchitis Cure, and that it
was good. So my sister bought me a bottle of it, and in
a few minutes after taking the first dose I could breathe a
little. The next day I was better, and kept getting better
every day. To-day lam better than I have been for the
last seven years. I took the medicine as directed, six
bottles, and it cost me less than £l. I would give £5O for
the same benefit rather than suffer as I did. Please make
what use of this letter you think fit. If by so doing it
would only cause one to get rid of this fearful complaint.
—Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM CANHAM,
103 Curtis Road, Balmain, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Its Efficacy in cliest complaints testified to
by a Grateful Victorian.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in
adding my testimony in praise of your invaluable Bron-
chitis Cure. I have used it for the last three or four years,
and its efficacy I have fully proved in common colds,
severe colds, croupy coughs, and other similar chest com-
plaints. I have given it to infants a few weeks old, young
children and adults of all ages, and have never known it
to fail in relieving at once, and rapidly effecting a cure
with a few doses. I have recommended it to many of my
friends, and they have fully proved its wonderful curative
properties. I feel very grateful to you for a chest medi-
cine so valuable, and cheap enough to be available to any-
one. Trusting its present popularity and sales will be
doubled, I am, yours very gratefully,
EDWARD JONES,
Mount Bruno, Mokoan, via Glenrowan, Vic.
Doctor
BRONCHITIS-
An English Lady so ill that the
held out no hope.
Was given Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and it
effected a complete recovery.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir.—. Not long since I had occasion
to visit the old country, and before leaving Melburne pur-
chased a bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, which I took
with me. When I arrived in Leeds I found that my niece,
Miss C. Matthews, was suffering from a very severe attack
of Bronchitis, in fact, she was so bad that the family doctor
held out no hope of her recovery. She was then given
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure according to the direction on
the label, and I am Very pleased to say that it effected a
complete cure. R. J. MATTHEWS,
c/o Allan & Co., Collins-st., Melbourne.
ASTHMA.
A Sufferer 73 Tears of Age cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Sir, —I am thankful to say that the medicine you sent
for asthma has had a wonderful effect. I have not taken
all the Bronchitis Cure, as I did not need it ; therefore
I send you my hearty good wishes for your future success.
I myself will, for the benefit of others, make it known to
all I know. lam 7 3 years of age.—Yours truly,
JOHN BRAY,
Alliance-street, Clunes, Victoria.
BBONCHO-PNEUMONIA
Two Severe Cases cured by One Bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward without
delay another small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. The
bottle I had from you has cured two of my children, but I
do not feel safe without it in the house. I have also re-
commended it to my friends. I lost a fine little girl, three
years of age, from influenza and Broncho-Pneumonia. I
really believe if I had had your medicine my child would
not have died, for the other two, a boy five years old, and
a baby 8 months old, were suffering exactly in the same
way, and it acted like magic on them ; in fact, a small
bottleful cured both of them ; so trusting you will forward
it without delay—l am, yours most gratefully,
(Mrs.) E. D.- WARD.
Cassilis, via Swift’s Creek, Gippsland, Vic.
A Queensland Sufferer from Bronchitis.
Seventy-two years of age, weak and
Wasted.
The Doctor considered it a hopeless case.
Cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Bear Sir, —I beg leave to draw your
attention to a remarkable Cure of Bronchitis, which disease
attacked me last May. It was looked upon by the doctor
as a hopeless case. In such an extremity I naturally
looked about for something to try. I thought it a hard
thing, after 72 years’ experience of the ups and downs of
this life, to die in such an inglorious manner ; besides, I
was very poor in flesh, and thin, and this stimulated me
to make an effort for recovery, if only to improve my con-
dition. I saw your Bronchitis Cure advertised, and
thought I would give it a trial, so I sent to W. H. Harris,
chemist, Gill-street, Charters Towers, and got a small
bottle of it. I had scarcely finished it when I gave up all
thought of leaving my wife a widow, and hopefully looked
forwarded to many more delightful days of up and downs,
principally downs. The second small bottle caused the
Bronchitis and me to part company, greatly to its regret,
I opine. The third bottle stood me on my legs to receive
the congratulations of my friends.
I have been a resident of Charters Towers for 30 years,
and, being gifted with the spirit of good fellowship, have
not the least objection to you making any use of thie
testimonial you think proper, as a means of relieving
others similarly situated to myself.
"JOHN SHEPHERD,
Queenton, Charters Towers, Queensland.
Believed by one dose of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and cured by two bottles.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony
to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis, Cure. _ I
suffered for nine months, and the cough was so dis-
tressingly bad at nights, I was obliged to get up and sit
by the fire. I had medical advice, and tried other
remedies, without avail. I tried yours, and never had a
fit of coughing after taking the first dose, and though I
have had but two bottles, I feel I am a different man, and
the cough has vanished. You may depend upon my
making known the efficacy of your wonderful remedy t®
anyone I see afflicted.— Yours faithfully,
JAMES ASTBURY,
Dergholm, Victoria.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE— Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
Y'. Q. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
•FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY,
Office: Ho. 5, First Floor. Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. SSS 2.


has a habit of
washing clothes well.
HAS A HABIT OF
CLEANING WINDOWS
LIKE TO CRYSTAL.
A BABY IN ARMOUR
is a Baby that is washed regularly with
Wright’s Coal Tar Soap
because he is
PROTECTED FROM THE ATTACKS
of all childhood’s infectious diseases.
A Cure for fliddle
(By “Old Bot.”)
It always comes as a shock to a man or woman to hear that they are being classed as middle-aged
people. Youth merges so gradually into age that one is apt to consider oneself young for years after
those who are really young have placed us upon the shelf of age. In all but a small minority of oases,
however, when a person gets to be over forty, a subtle diminution of energy makes itself felt.
Perhaps, if we are lucky, we have nothing special in the way of pain to growl about, but, even ra
such cases, there is an indefinable something which insistently brings to our knowledge the fact that
youth has fled. In a larger proportion of instances the advance of middle age is heralded in a more
emphatic manner. The joints become stiff, twinges of gout are felt, rheumatic and neuralgic pains
begin to trouble, there is a sharp pain in the back when rising from a stooping posture, a good meal is
eaten with a miserable consciousness that presently we shall regret the eating, and numerous
weaknesses and aches all tend to advise us that we must begin to take more care of ourselves.
Although there is, unfortunately, no means of preventing the advance of age, it is possible to
ward off its effects for an indefinite period if adequate care is taken to see that the eliminating organs,
the kidneys and the liver, are in good working order, because the encroachments of age are ever
gradual and painless when the kidneys and liver are properly performing their functions.
The kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains
in weight of uric acicl, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to
nearly an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily, all this solid matter leaves the body
dissolved in the urine, but if, through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flovvs through the veins,
contaminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as
Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Gravel, Stone,
and Bladder Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some
urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning.
If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brickdust, is of an unnatural colour, or has particles floating
about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore their
vigour, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many maifestations of uric poisoning will result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made
from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver takes
sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it
lto the blood, as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble,
into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles which have
ived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from some
form of biliary poisoning such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice, Sick Headache, General
Debility, and Blood Disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys, and that done by the liver,
that where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys the liver becomes affected in sympathy and
vice versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of those vital
organs which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
Safe Cure. Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine
could be found which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves fy> an
exhaustive search for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in
compounding a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe
Cure exhibits a marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys
and liver, and restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all com-
plaints due to the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the
kidneys and liver naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons
oease. Cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [ll].
Leander.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
HE stood, at day-death, on the strand,
Across the waters staring,
His black eyes shaded by his hand
To see the cresset flaring,
That Hero set upon the height
To point him thro’ the waves and night.
The trembling West-roads of the sky
Were hazed with yellow fire,
The thunder-gods sent up a cry
Like mourners round a pyre ;
And pase dared tne sea
That storm’d in anger at his knee.
He stooped, and breasting bursting foam,
Shot like a living arrow
Beneath the flashing, flaming dome
That never seemed to narrow ;
He spurned the black sea with his palms,
He clasped the distance in his arms.
White as the moon, as frosty white,
Sate Hero in her tower,
And heaped the leaping cresset light
To greater golden power ;
The sparks fled high above the rail,
Like yellow grain before the flail.
She saw the horses of the sea,
She saw their dust uplifting
(She shook from head to gleaming knee),
She saw Leander drifting,
Like to a distant drop of snow
Upon a river’s sullen flow.
He sank ; and o’er the roaring fall
Of wave on wave descending,
She heard the Tritons’ trumpets call,
With Naiad voices blending,
As down the bubbling stair he trode
To Neptune’s mystical abode.
“Whom the gods love,” she moaned, “die
young—
Love me, O gods—whole-hearted ! ”
Then, as a javelin fiercely flung,
Into the depths she darted ;
While slowly from the brazier’s bars
The black smoke mounted to the stars.
The night grew old, then waned away,
Till Phcebus, eastward flashing,
His chariot wheels all w-et with spray,
Came o’er the ocean dashing ;
And, at his back, a mighty crowd
Of lusty spearsmen roared aloud.
He looked upon the lonely height
Of Hero’s rocky tower,
About whose feet the waters white
Sustained a silver shower :
" What tho’ the lark he in the skies ,
Lovers,” he said, “ arc slow to rise.”
N.S.W.
HUGH M'CRAE.
The Gate of Eternal Payment.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ TROLLY ! Dolly Grey !” A long pause,
I W and thhn, brokenly, “ Ain’t yer ever
goin’ ter answer, little girl ? ”
Mackerrow rose, and crawled through the
dark to the bunk.
“Don’t you fret, Tommy,” he said; “she’ll be
cornin’ along all right d’reckly. You jist shut up
an’ git to sleep.”
“ But I’ve slep’ for two hundred an’ ninety-
seven hours —put down the nought an’ carry one ;
an’ I’ll never do it again. I might lose her while
I’m sleepin’, Mac., for the Devil’s very near o’
times. An’ the fire’s out! Mac. ! Mac. ! Great
Heavens above, the fire’s out! Light it up !
Light it up, I tell yer ! ”
Followed a bump on the floor, and Mackerrow
grunted, striking a match. “Blest if I reckoned
■on a week o’ this fanoodlin’. Easy on, Tommy ;
the Devil’s gone ’ome, I think. That last lot o’
scones about Settled his hash.”
The boy stood up, barefoot, in shirt and trou-
sers, and pointed a shaking hand at the door. It
gaped wide; for the night was hot, and Mac-
kerrow’s whare was ventilated only for one. But
Tommy had come in from the township some days
back, and Mackerrow, seeing what was on him,
bad left his gold-washing for the time, that he
might help a man through with the curse that is
common enough all the white world over.
“ That’s her light across on the hill. Don’t tell
me it ain’t. I’ve seen it too many nights for that.
But the Devil’s in between us, Mac, He’s out on
the tussock still.”
“ An’ that’s the truest word you’ve said in your
life,” muttered Mackerrow underneath. “ There’s
the Devil ’tween you an’ your Dolly to the end o’
the airth, I’m thinkin’. Hold on, Tommy . . .
you’ll set the place afire.”
He rammed sticks into the lower jaw of the
•colonial oven, raked the red ash up, and sat back
on the bunk resignedly. Through yesterday
Tommy had fancied himself a piece of meat, and
wept with terror when Mackerrow s pet weka
walked into the whare. In the night before he
- had been a regiment, and kept Mackerrow march-
ing to the tune of “ Dolly Grey,” blattered out on
a kerosene-tin. But this was a more expensive
imagination than aforetime, and took heavy toll
from Mackerrow’s larder.
“ When the Devil comes for a man he never goes
home unfed,” had said Tommy. “ An’ it takes a
big pile o’ scones to equal me, y’ know. Lucky
you got in a new bar’l o’ flour, Mac., ain’t it ? ”
There was mess of half-baked paste strewn over
the floor and trailed across the sill to the tussock
beyond. _ There was mess of it over the table and
the shining tins that Mackerrow’s soul loved ; and
over the boy’s white, scared, young face with the
wide eyes. And it was the child-like piteousness
in the eyes that pulled Mackerrow back when he
greatly desired to send for Marshall.
“ For when a chap’s come to where Tommy is
now, ’tain’t lockin’ up he wants,” said Mackerrow,
with a certainty born of experience.
Tommy cast on wood, and ran more scones into
the oven. He tiptoed to the crack in the door-
hinge, peered through, and said to Mackerrow :
“ The last lot’s near gone. D’yer think he’ll be
fixed soon, Mac. ? I want ter go over ter Dolly.”
“Them dawgs o’Morris’s will be laid out to-
morrer,” said Mackerrow to himself, and aloud :
“Yes, Tommy; yes. T reckon you’ll get to her
soon.”
But be knew—as Tommy knew when he was
sane—that there was the Gate of Eternal Payment
to be passed first.
Tommy giggled like a school-girl, drew the un-
warmed scones from the oven, and cast them into
the night. Then he stood with his eyes on a star
that lay above a distant house on the hill, and
earnestly cursed the Devil who kept them apart
with Mackerrow’s pick in his hands, and a red-hot
mouse on his shoulders. Mackerrow dragged the
boy back by main force. There were miners’ huts
on the flat and the hill, and he would shield
Tommy from open shame.
“That gell o’ his is worryin’ him some,” he said.
“An’ no wonder. She’s too sweet an’clean for
this world, as it is ; an’ if she heered o’ this break
out —it’d be all up wi’ Tommy.”
“I’ve had enough o’ him this week,” explained
Tommy, rolling the empty barrel over. “He
caught me—d’ yer ’member when he caught me ?
When I was marchin’ down the street, Dolly
Grey. To the tramp o’ soldier’s feet, Dolly Grey.
That was when he caught me, an’ I ain’t seen her
since—well, by Jingo, Mac. ! did you ever see the
like ? There he is settin’ on that pot. You see
me put him unner the bar’l.”
So the boy strove and sweated and talked ribald
nonsense without cease.
Came a sudden clatter of boots on the tailings
beside the flume. Tommy’s chatter shut like an
off-turned tap, and in one movement ho leaped to
the bunk and dived under tho blankets. Mat-
shall was there in the door-way, with a handful
of men behind. ■
“What’s that mess of flour-stuff outside,
Mac. ?” he said. . “And what d’ you mean by a
row that is waking folk down the gully for miles ? ”
“ That’s pizen for dawgs. An’ the row was me
tryin’to teach my weka to speak. ” Mackerrow
was outwardly reverent to the Law, but his left
eyelid lay on his cheek for an instant. Marshall
saw it, and caught understanding straightway.
And his strong face clouded, for Marshall was the
tenderest-hoarted man who ever did his duty in a
blue uniform.
He stepped out to the men in the night, and
took away Mackerrow’s character without a blush.
“Mac's been down to the township, I think,”
he said, quietly. “ I’ll stay awhile, and see what’s
wrong. You can turn out the fellows if you hear
me whistle. Good-night.”
Then he shut himself into the whare, where the
fire burnt low.
“Is it Tommy Duncane you’ve got here, Mac-
kerrow ? I’ll have to take Creevy’s license away,
I think. Where is the boy, then ? ”
Mackerrow jerked his thumb to the bunk,
where what might have been a dog quivered and
whimpered.
“ 1 doubt if he’s fit to take, Marshall. He’s bad,
if ever I see’d a man. An’ if you take him now,
the township’ll know. An’ that’ll send Tommy to
the track, an’ Lord knows what after.”
“ How long has this been on him ? ”
“Suthin’ near four days . . . I c’n manage
him, Marshall.”
“ Is he dangerous ? ”
“ I c’n ”
“ Is he dangerous ? ”
Mackerrow held his peace. His right forearm
was ripped up by Tommy’s clasp-knife, and
Tommy had flung the blazing log that made the
sear upon his temple.
There were times when Marshall loathed lbs
work to the core of him. Mackerrow turned from
the big man’s face as the clink of the handcuffs
spoke. For mouth and eyes were unsteadied by
pity- . ...
“ There’s his gell—he’ll never forgive hisself if
she hears—an’ we all know Dolly, Marshall.”
Marshall made two steps to the bunk and flung
back the blankets. Tommy sprang with a shout
and closed on him, mad, blind, and sweating in
fear. Marshall caught the wrists and put them
down gently.
“That’s no good, lad,” he said. “Don’t bp
frightened, Tommy !—Tommy ! ”
It was a half-hour later that M ickerrow said,
shakily : “ Yer won’t be takin’ ’im to-night,
Marshall.”
Marshall’s collar was torn and blood smeared
his tunic. His breath came unevenly as he lifted
Tommy in his arms and laid him back in his bunk.
“I will not take him, either night or morning,
Mackerrow. There’s another has first call—yes ;
you know it, too. ”
Tommy’s weak A.nds fumbled on the coat-
sleeve.
“Dolly,” he muttered. “Though it breaks my
heart to go.”
Mackerrow looked sternly at nothing.
“ It’s her heart he’s.breakin’,” he said.
Marshall shook himself into neatness and opened
the door.
“We both know Dolly. I’m going to fetch
her.”
“Don’t you, Marshall; it’s his blame. Let him
do the payin’ alone.”
“He can’t. Not one man in ten thousand gives
payment alone. The woman must come into it.
And we know Dolly ; she would rather be here.”
* •* * *
Mackerrow was at the door when the double
footstep sounded over the tailings.
“ He’s goin’, and he’s given his pay mint down
full. You ain’t scared, Dolly.”
She put him aside, and went over to the bunk.
Mai-shall drew Mackerrow outside.
“ It’s the eternal law,” he said. “We can’t do
anything, Mac. ; he’s quiet enough now, and it
must be just those two alone, as it was in the be-
ginning.”
And when the girl came out into the pitiless face
of the day, the men understood that she had been
to the very threshold of the Gate of Eternal Pay-
ment before it swung shut against her only.
G. B. LANCASTER.
The Bush Circus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
STRAIGHT ahead a thin column of dust
hung over the road, and in half-an-liour it
had resolved itself into a caravan of half-a-
dozen dilapidated vehicles, old waggonettes, the
wreck of an Abbott buggy, and the remnant of
what, long years ago, as a baker’s cart, had dashed
about the streets of some city suburb. Bits of
fencing-wire' and old rope, rough pieces of sap-
lings, and a score of makeshifts held them awk-
wardly together.
Rabbiters ? It was too early in the year. Across
the paddock I saw a boy, about thirteen years
old, with long, matted, golden hair, walking
towards a farmhouse, carrying in his hands
bunches of artificial flowers. His poverty-stricken
figure, and gaudy, bright ornaments, showed up
curiouslv against the background of dusty wheat-
lands. The travellers seemed awaiting his return,
-the thin, wretched horses grateful for the rest. I
passed on, leaving the problem unsolved.
Coming on to the next wayside township for the
night, I met my companions of the road again.
There I was enlightened. What was once a
gaudily-painted sign, now weather-beaten and
ragged, hung in front of an old tent, with the
legend, “Richo’s Great Hippodrome.”
The tent, about 20 x 20, was pitched against a
wire-fence on the side of the road, and roped on
to three or four trees that surrounded it, while the
vehicles were drawn up alongside, and the tired
horses wandered down the road, looking for stray
blades of grass. A little crowd of oldish-looking
children were “fetching and carrying,” aided by
two or three vacant-faced louts. A middle-aged
woman directed them.
The band struck up at nightfall, and if music
was wanting, noise was not. The drum beat regu-
larly and steadily—the mournful beat of monotony
and despair. The other instrument was an
old-style American hand-organ, such as may be
picked up in a second-hand shop for a few shillings.
There was no pretence of tune in the roll of the
drum, but on the organ fragments could be
detected of “Love’s Sweet Dream ” and “Rock
of Ages.”
Some thirty of the local folic gathered in the
tent and watched the performance. The daring
trapeze artist, the pathetic clown (did ever comedy
mask a sadder face?), and then Miss Estellaßicho
sang.
Poor little mite. She stood in the dusty ring,
where the shadows of her prematurely careworn
face (a hideous contrast with the girlish, fragile
form) were lined in harsh relief by the flickering
oil torches. Clutching her worn tinsels and colors
with quivering fingers, she piped “I’ve got my
eye on you.” The thin, quavering voice floated
out on the quiet night, uncertain of tune, but
driven by necessity. And when the first verse
had ended, the organ wailed in with scraps of
“ Love’s Sweet Dream.”
The mockery of the curtsey to the stalls; the
dainty kiss of the finger-tips; the clown’s weak
buffoonery ; and the melancholy drummer who
played on through joke and song, trapeze-act and
contortion—all was ineffably melancholy.
Later on, as I sat on the quiet hotel verandah,
I could hear that little, quavering voice singing
“ The Holy City.”
When the last beat of the drum had sounded I
strolled down to the tent.
“ Yes ; they were all her children. A hard life ;
true enough, but what could she.do?... Her
husband was circus-bred. A trapeze man ; good
in his day, but reckless, like all of them. And he
fell ... A net? Oh, a net spoiled the show . . .
He died in the hospital in the end, but it ate up
their little store. Then she managed to get this
fit-up together. The youngsters had learned a
little, but were not good enough for the big shows
as they were nowadays . i . No, she was not any
good herself at the game, but made artificial
flowers and gathered in a copper or two. As for
the rest,” with a dreary glance at the dark, sombre
tent ; “ well, you’ve seen that !” * ' '' .
In the morning the old horses came wearily up
the road, hustled to their day’s Work by the
drummer of the night before, and later on the
caravan wandered away into the distance—the
bush circus on its melancholy way.
BERT MUDGE.


m
INDIGESTION and DECLINE.
1
4Z\
“ ~¥ F I were asked to specify the disease or ailment
I of the day, I should unhesitatingly answer—
‘Constipation.’ ”
So says one of the greatest medical writers of the
present day, and he follows this statement by saying
that women are the commonest sufferers. Undoubtedly
he is right ! Just imagine a town with every drain
stopped. Would you be surprised to find pestilence and
fever abound ? Hardly ! Where Constipation exists
the drains which Nature has provided to clear the body
of its impurities are out of order, and the impurities are
left in the body. The result is that every organ of the
body is rendered foul. The liver and digestive organs
become clogged and unable to fulfil their proper functions,
the appetite is destroyed, the head either aches or feels
dull and heavy, there is heat and feverishness, a dreary
don’t-care-about-anything feeling, a sensation of irrita-
bility with everybody and everything. Sometimes,
also, Constipation brings on Piles. Now, if you
have any of these symptoms, remember that
Constipation is their root cause. Remember,
also, that the root cure for Constipation, and in-
directly for all these organs, is a vegetable essence
concentrated in Bile Beans. So effective are
Bile Beans for this ailment that in t everal cases
where Constipation has been so neglected that
it has resulted in stoppage of the bowels, they
have, nevertheless, brought about a complete cure.
As an illustration :—•
Nurse Baldwin, residing at 108 Bourke-street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney, writes:—
“You have my heartfelt thanks for the benefit I have received from Bile Beans. About
seven years ago, my health began to break up through over-work and worry. My liver
was sluggish in its action, and I suffered with Constipation and Indigestion, and, finally.
Decline. Several doctors prescribed for me, but, strange to say, I derived no benefit from
their treatment. I also tried several medicines advertised as a cuie for my complaints,
but still failed to impiove in health. Bile Beans were recommended by a friend, ancl
although I had little faith in their doing me any good after all the others had failed, 1 still
determined to give them a trial, and purchased a box. Their effect was marvellous from
the first few doses, and, continuing the course, I was quickly restored to health. Since
that time I have never been without Bile Beans in the house, and have recommended
them to scores of my patients, and in each case they have derived great benefit. As for
myself, I cannot speak t( o highly of them.”
Bile Beans are a safe
and speedy Cure for
Biliousness, Headache,
Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, Piles, Debility,
Female Weaknesses,
Nervousness, Had
Blood, Bad Breath,
Anaemia, Disturbed
Sleep, Loss of Appe-
tite, and, in fact, all
ailments that owe their
origin to defective bile,
flow, assimilation and
digestion.
ecm s
FOR
9
/
£
V
Ia
The Isle of Rest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FIVE days’ steam from Sydney lies Norfolk
Island. On a fine day, its smooth, steep
slopes, covered with grass as with a gar-
ment, seem like ascending strophes of a great
green poem culminating in pine-clad Mount Pitt
But there is a grim warder—Phillip Island—at
the gate of-this Paradise. Phillip Island looks as
if it had been flayed by the scourges of the winds.
There is nothing green upon it but a few derelict
pines. Its naked bones show ghastly red, as if
they had been washed in blood. Over against it
on the main island is what is left of the settlement.
i™ 6 anC * weatker kave made grey skeletons of
the barracks, and the dwellings of the officers, and
the gaol. They are repulsive even as ruins, and
should be swept away to the last stone, but they
are no longer ominous. The evil power has
departed from them. They are forlorn and ugly
as . a , w i? k ® d old man on his death-bed. The
Bloody Bridge of dreadful memory is now nothing'
culvertf mU an t> r< >ken-down, grass-grown
* * * #
•n' fc £ V j a l ; call The Cascades the traveller
will find hospitably awaiting him—the smell of
whale. Here the Islanders hold post-mortems on
the leviathans they catch. Cetacean ribs, big as
girders and vertebrae large enough to serve as
footstalk for policemen, are piled in white heaps
on the black-boulder-strewn beach. The Islanders
convey visitors ashore in whaleboats. It is a
pretty sight to see them giving- way, and the man
at the stern using his great steering-oar as if it
were a feather. They are at their best then. The
pier at which the boatmen land their passengers
is built of big basaltic rocks, clamped together
with iron bars. Having landed, and passed
beyond the sphere of effluence, of the whale-in-
dustry, the traveller is in the isle of Idyll and of
Idleness.
* * * - »
One is met on landing by a procession of buggies
drawn by small, shaggy horses. What the piano
is to the Australian family with pretensions to
.Refinement, the buggy is to the Norfollc-Islander.
JLt is a sign of Respectability. The horses are not
fieiy space-eaters that burn the wind as they go.
If they were, there would not be room to turn
them around on the Island, which is about seven
miles long by four broad. They would fall over,
with their drivers, into the Pacific Ocean. That
is the first impression made upon the visitor, at
any rate. But it is liable to be modified, after he
has hired a buggy and gone for a drive. He will
then discover that a lot of travelling nuiy be done
in the space of seven miles by four.
* * * *
The road rising from the Cascade Landing is
almost hist in a crease of the green-
robed hills that calls to mind Swinburne’s “deep
division of prodigious breasts.” Then it forks,
lhe main branch leads to the settlement, the
other to a remote country lying in the heart of the
ranges.. 1 chose the latter, and before long found
myself in a quiet green glen, through which roll
111 toar ? mg g allons the waters of the Norfolk Mur-
rumbidgee. Green slopes were around me dark-
green pines fretted the blue of the sky in the
distance, and if it had not been for a number of
wheel-tracks, and a broken clay pipe, and a frag-
ment of an old newspaper, I would have thought
that I was in a place where foot of man had newer
before trodden.
* * * *
The scenery of the Isle of Rest is of one color
only green. But all the shades and tones of
green are there, from the bright flute-green of
the young fruit-trees to the deep organ-
green of the towering pines. * But the green
of the grass on the slopes, that are like lawns set
u P° n i 6nd —with red cows clinging to them here
and there—is a feast for eyes made tired by gazing
too long on the garish brick and mortar of cities.
Scarcely a bush, hardly even a weed, is seen, and
the smooth surface of the emerald carpet is only
at intervals roughened by boulders of black basalt,
telling of the ancient volcanic fury that heaved up
the ridges which now lie so peacefully asleep.
But, to one who remembers the story of old
unhappy far-off things, these lawn-like hill-slopes
seem like enormous burial mounds, raised with
pain to their own memory by the forgotten dead.
What hearts were broken here ! How many men
made in the image of God cursed Him and
died, while, under the lash of the brutal adminis-’
trators of a. brutal law, they turned a matted
wilderness into an Ocean Paradise ! If ever a
place in the world had reason to be haunted
surely it is this Island. Yet the inhabitants
have no ghost-lore worth mentioning. This-seems
curious when one remembers that their forefathers,
the mutineers, were superstitious seamen, and
their lahitian foremothers believed devoutly in
devils. Possibly their materialism is one of the
many strange results of persistent in-breeding.
But fancy the Celtic imagination let loose in a
weird graveyard-playground like this '
* * * *
I refreshed myself now and then with oranges
that grew wild along the road. Presently I met
an old man who was carrying a basket of eggs on
b S htT'm- He v Y alkln ff slowly, and .appeared
m.- ( pleasing conversation with himself.
{ n 1 wlu 10 *' 16 i r odd , thiu o about these peculiar
folk. When they talk to themselves, what thov
say appears to be always agreeable, and frequently
amusing. In other countries, people soliloquise
unpleasantly, as a rule. The old man said ‘ ■ 6ood
day , wben he , saw me, and I asked him if he
could tell me where a certain family lived
<( , Ua ' h > yes >” he replied, with a soft, slow smile •
a long way from here. Oa-h, have an ? ” ’
th u mi £ kt be a hospitable custom
of the Islanders when they met with strangers
and took the egg and sucked it skilfully. The old
man was pleased. “Oa-h, yes,” he said, “they
Er y r P w Untry b 1 discovered afterwards
that they hved,two mdes away. This is a sample
of the Islanders ideas of distance. I began to
understand their craze for buggies.
I came to the Pine Avenue, which runs half-
way across the Island, and there met two fellow
pa fsengers m a buggy. They made me get in
with them We drove along a narrow road, bor-
dered with orange-trees and guavas and wild
vmes. Now and then, at steep places, we got out
and walked. Before long we arrived at the Angli-
can Mission Station. Here there is a substantial
church, roomy quarters for the native converts
fwho are being trained asteachers of the Gospel)
and a spacious and picturesque parsonage. The
population of the station numbers about 250.
hurt her on is the cable station, where there are
some thirty operators and assistants, including
workmen. The operators are mostly young men,
who are the ornaments of Island society.
. There is, of course, an Island Aristocracy. It
is composed of First Families, who came from
Pitcairn—Adamses, Christians, Quintals, and so
fprth—with a small admixture of more recent im-
portations. They intermarry in the fashion of
the Royal Families of Europe—with not unlike
results. One effect of in-breeding is particularly
noticeable—the Islanders have a strong family re-
semblance to each other. Some are much darker
of skin than others, and show the Tahitian side of
their origin very plainly. In many instances the
lahitian type has mastered the European. The
men are, for the most part, big, broad-shouldered,
heavy-built, shambling-gaited fellows, and go
about like elephants in a dream. It is only when
they are at sea in one of their whaleboats that
they show any signs of grace or alertness. Then
they are really worth looking at. But ashore they
appear to be the most lazy people in existence.
They.regard work as an evil thing which, if en-
couraged until it became a habit, would be likely
to bring ruin upon their island Paradise. They
certainly seem to live very happily without
it—or with so little of it as to be hardly
worth speaking about. They grow nothing,
except by accident, beyond what they require for
themselves, and occasionally not even that much.
If they miscalculate and produce more than they
can consume in the immediate future, the surplus
is shipped to Sydney and—with some whale-oil
and a few cases of oranges that grow without
trouble and are easily shaken from the trees—con-
stitutes what arc grandly described as the exports
of Norfolk Island. One more energetic than his
fellows came aboard the steamer with wares to sell
—little home-made handbags, and a row of sharks’
teeth, mounted on a plate, which he gravely in-
formed me would be a fine ornament to put in a
dentist’s window. For the bags—which could be
bought in Sydney for 6d. apiece—he wanted 2s.
each.
* * * «
Meat is scarce on the Island, although grass is
so plentiful. Rearing cattle is too troublesome an
occupation to suit the natives. They have some
cattle, however, and when a beast is killed it is
shared around as far as it will go. Milk is also
scarce, and butter is unknown, except in a few
households. The well-to-do people appear to be
those in whom the European energy still prevails
over the Tahitian inertia. But even they have
not much to boast of in this way. Very often
they, are without eggs, although multitudes of
fowls may be seen' scratching around every
holding. The hens, I was informed, “layaway,”
and their owners are too tired to go egg-hunting.
But they gird up their loins and pursue the
Leghorn to her lair when they have visitors.
At such times "their tables are always
handsomely furnished. The savage virtue of hos-
pitality flourishes bravely amongst these primitive
folk. They are kind to each other, and there is
nothing too good for the stranger within their gates.
But, for all that, they are not overpleased to see
visitors from the outside world. They prefer to
be left to themselves. Behind this feeling lies the
fear that, some day when their Island becomes
better known, the visitors will come to stav.
* * * *
It is an article of faith amongst these descend-
ants of the mutineers that the Island belongs to
them by right. They hold that, when the
British Government took their ancestors from
Pitcairn, it made over Norfolk to them and
their heirs and assigns for ever. This fond
belief has received several rude shocks during
recent years. The Anglican mission, for instance”
owns a slice of the best land, acquired direct
from the Government. The cable station occupies
some more land, and there are over a thousand
acres in reserve for anyone who wishes to buy.
Terms, £3 to £4 per acre ; ill) years’ lease. A man
with a little money and a philosophic turn of
mmd could take up a small holding here and live
comfortably on chickens and eggs and bacon and
fruit for the rest of his days. He could also grow
Ins own coffee and tobacco if he chose. I would
not publish these facts if I were not convinced
that whoever came to settle in the island would,
in course of time, fall into the ways of the islanders,
and become infected with their hatred of work.
In Norfolk, laziness soaks into the bones with the
sunshine.
*, * 3 *
The Islanders are, of course, degenerates. This
does not mean that there is anything really repre-
hensible in their character—except, perhaps, a
little amiable laxity of morals. They are, in fact,
overgrown children, with the brains of children’
and not precocious children at that. They are
religious in a low-grade, emotional style, and are
tremendous hymn-singers, but could hardly be
called earnest Christians.
* * * *
Clannish they are, as might be expected, and—•
however they may quarrel amongst themselves
when they feel a little less tired than usual—they
stand shoulder to shoulder against the interfer-
ence of outsiders. It is this feature in their
character that makes the work of the Visiting
Magistrate pretty difficult at times. During the
- administration of one native Magistrate in the old
days an Islander threw his child down a well. The
child was drowned. There was no doubt about
the man’s guilt, so the jury brought in a verdict
of insanity against him, at the suggestion of the
doctor. He was placed in the local gaol, and
ordered to stay there during Her Majesty’s
pleasure. His friends brought him eggs, cold
fowl, cakes, and fruit to eat, and the Magistrate
sent him a table and a ladder with which to
scale the gaol wall when he felt in need of
exercise in the open. After that he might be
seen at all hours of the day, strolling over the
island or sitting by the roadside eating oranges.
In order to further cheer the hapless culprit, the
Magistrate and his family came and took dinner
with him in the prison on Christmas Day. Shortly
afterwards the doctor received a letter to the
following effect : “ Sir,—How long is this faree to
continue ! You know I am no more a lunatic
than you are. Will you kindly give me a key to
the gaol so that I may go in and out like a Chris-
tian, instead of having to climb over the wall ? ”
Unfortunately, the mainland law got to hear of
the case, and made trouble.
*.* * *
When talking amongst themselves these people
use a kind of ‘ P'dgin ” English—a soft, emascu-
lated jargon, full of Tahitian words and drawling
vowels—quite unintelligible to outsiders. When
they speak to the latter, their speech is a sort of
drowsy chant with a rising inflection at the end
ot a sentence.
Ihey spend their time in sleeping and eating
tuf F i ly T te . nnis - . Tennis is the great game of
the Island. A native must be poor indeed if he
doesn t own a tennis-racquet and a blazer. There
is no hotel in IS orfoik, and liquor is not allowed
ashore. Coffee-winch they call coffc.w-and
lemon-syrup are the only drinks procurable. They
give parties frequently, and regale their guests on
. oughy-cake a kind of damper with currants
in it—and the aforementioned beverages. As far
aValf Se S6rVe ’ y ° U are welcome with a heart and
* * * * j
mS!I° PU ! a a n of , t , he Island— exclusive of the
m ssion and the cable people—is about 750 all
told, bo much for the Isle of Rest.. What a
would make ! And what a
magnificent 1 acific Monte Carlo ! ;
VICTOR J. DALEY.


A Blood-Purifier
impure Blood. Abscesses. Now Strong and Robust.
S\'/ -.
Mrs. Annie
Snook, of Auck-
land, New Zealand,
sends us her photo-
graph, and says:
“I was a strong,
healthy woman
until about live
years ago. While
living in England,
on recovering from
an attack of the
measles, I took a
■chill, had a relapse,
and came very near
dying. My blood
was left in a very
bad state. Ab-
scesses formed on
my body. I was
confined to my bed
two-thirds of the
time, and at times
unable to move.
For two years I
failed to obtain any
relief, and was advised to come to New Zealand. On arriving here I con-
tinued about the same, trying many remedies without any relief. About a
year ago I thought I would try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Very soon the abscesses
began to heal, and my general health improved. I followed up the treatment,
until now lam as strong and robust as ever. I cannot too strongly recommend
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a blood-purifier and tonic.”
You will notice it was “Ayer’s ” Sarsaparilla that made this splendid cure
for Mrs. Snook. There are many other Sarsaparillas on the market, but
there is only one “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla. It is the old, original, genuine
Sarsaparilla. The Sarsaparilla that has been tested and tried for over sixty
years. Do not run the risk of trying some other kind.
AYER’S s arsaparilla
Removes all Impurities from the Blood.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER CO.. Dowell. Mass., XT. S. A.
HICHOLLS’ nflNDELIQH j|U
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE 'YORLD WANTS TO
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English (Jure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Go., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lsd. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Free to Men.
to me and I will forward you my dentine
* 9 book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong; and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
TOnish like magic and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
Mohs Armamd Gourai’d, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
J)rimkennes§
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doBes produce a wonderful change. The
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing ' sleep ensues. My cure wtil
surprise and delight you.
ONK op many:
Ravensthonpe, W.A., 23-2-04 .
Have finished the half course, which has
a cure. I have no desire for drink , in fact have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
Yours gratefully, 'R.O.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FR/VSB.
Address •
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S /fc NQ .
129 COLLINS STREET,
BOURNE.
Strength and Vigor
Four Weeks by usi
O- RXCOJfcoS
tS SEt4 cE of L y f£ •
The only Infallible Remedy for
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Ener
and Vitality to the most weaL
constitutions. Send stamps for free p
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 36s
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO
Melbourne; N.S.W.— Faulding & c
Bt., Sydney; Newcastle, Adelaide '
lESS, DEBILITY,
Strength
>d shattered
lphlet.
Freight extra,
47 Queen St.,
16 O’Connell
Perth.
ana
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rNLORODYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BitOUCHITIS,
DIAEKHQBA, & G -> bears on
the Government Stomp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
nan illustrated London news at
Sept. 28 1896. says:
"If I were asked which single medicine l should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodyne. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
ts best recommendation."
A Handsome Present
A £2 Watch for only 12s 6d.
Good, Cheap, and Reliable.
rpHIS Beautiful Solid SILVER
. WATCH (Lady’s or Gent.’s),
with * guarantee for three years,
will be sent post free to any part
Of the Colony on receipt of money
or postal note for 12s 6d. This
off fir is made to advertise our firm.
?lk IN TIME, AS WE EXPECT
TO SELL SAME VERT QUICK.
THE ENGLISH LEVER WATCH CO.,
BOX 360, G.P.0., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
BOX 406, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MEN, DON’T WORRY
After you have tried all other remedies for NERVOUS-
NESS, DEBILITY, etc., as thousands have done before we
CURED them. Let us treat you, FREE of CHARGE,
for ONE MONTH, with our NEW CONCENTRATED
BOTANIC EXTRACTS, and the BENEFICIAL RESULTS
will surprise you.
Address: Botanic Institute, Victoria
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
£EB
uEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter ot
■how long standing. Are the same
"to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
ASTHMA CURED
at home TO STAY CURED. Causes removed.
Health restored. Attacks never return. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever Patients in
Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, and
America. By Mail only. Not sold in stores. Write for
Book 320, FREE, postpaid. Dr. P. Harold Hayes’
Asthmatic Institute, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Worth a Guinea a Box.
!
Are the Best and Safest Family Medicine
Everyone knows for a fact that BEECHAM’S PILLS have stood
the searching test of over fifty years’ continuously advancing popularity,
until to-day the demand for this specific in all parts of the world is
greater than ever. With a certainty the universal verdict of common
sense everywhere justifies the claim. And then, again, BEECHAM’S
PILLS do not require the publication of testimonials to maintain their
tremendous demand.
WHY?
Because those who once try BEECHAIVS
PILLS are naturally impelled to inform
others of the benefits to be derived there-
from. This is, perhaps a slow, but it Is certainly an honest and
a powerful process, and in this way the confidence and esteem
of the public have been lastingly secured.
No other Medicine in the World can
claim so many Regular Users.
Thousands of families always keep a box of BEECH AM’S PILLS in
the house, so that on the first sign of any irregularity of the system a
timely dose may be administered and further trouble and suffering averted.
Nine-tenths of the BEECHAM’S PILLS sold are purchased by those who
have used them before, and have found them indispensable as
A FAMILY MEDICINE
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price 1/1| (56 Pills) and 2/9 (168 Pills).
There's SECURITY in
ARTER’S
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLSf
W Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHEi
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUGH the
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Prices
Carter's
CONSOLT HERR RASSMUSSEN,
- SPECIALIST
IN PRIVATE, NERVOUS, SKIN AND BLOOD DISEASES, &C.4C.,
Treatment Toy Post a Speciality. Advice Free.
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Celebrated Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a guaranteed cure for Nervous Weakness, Varicocele, Loss of Vigor, Melancholia,
Despondency, Spots Before the Eyes, Loss of Memory, Spinal Weakness, Confused Brain,
Bashfulness and Lost Vitality. Makes Premature Weak Men Strong and Healthy
Boxes 6/» and 12/-. Ordinary Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6. Write (or Circulars.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Cure all Contagious Blood Diseases, Skin Complaints, Gravel, Stricture, Affections of the
Bladder Urinary Passage, and all Chronic Constitutional Blood and Skin Diseases, no mat-
ter how caused or of how long standing. They are Purely \ egetable, and contain no Mercury.
Boxes 61, Course 23/6. Write for circulars.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS cure Anaemia and Internal Female Complaints, Boxes 6/»
Course 23/6; Rheumatic Pills, 6/; Pile Powders, 6/; Fat-Reducing Powders, 6/; Liver Pills, 1/.
HEAD OFFICE : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Also at his BRANCHES : 309 Queen St., Brisbane; IS Pulteney St., Adelaide; 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.;
Perth, W.A.. 481 Hay St. and 111 Hannan St.. Kaigoorlie. hams peter Rasmussen
‘aaaNvoana p ub NvwHsna
Price Is. Id.
Post Free.


A Good Macintosh!
RUBBER
BOOTS.
Men’s—l2/6, 15 /.
17/6, 18/6.
Women ’s—l2/6.
GOLOSHES.
Men’s—3/9, 4/-,
4/6, 51-
Women ’s — 2,9,
3/-, 3/9.
“CONNAUGHT,” Cape Coat, without
Sleeves, 20/-, 35/-, 42/-
“ ASCOTT,” Sleeve Coat, with Ventilated
Yoke, 35/-, 42/-, 50/-
♦ ;
Perdriau Rubber Oo.^
(Late Perdriau and Co.),
RUBBER MERCHANTS,
270 George Street, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Ciarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Selfphone Ho, lots W&.CHTERER.
Mr. Skinner has a verv extensive and carefully
celected PLANT OP TABLE FUKNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
WORTHING
PUMP COMPAN
y
WORTH JNQTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence St., Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS for all Services.
Condensers
High Lift Centrifugals
Oil Separators
Send for Catalogues.
Cooling Towers
Feed Water Heaters
Air Compressors
Meters.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
( i Celebrated
1 1 PLATE and
CUTLERY
■
MAR 1C
? Wf Abb
or
J„ & J. MAXFIELD, Pnono., BHrcw»-m;r>
A* th« Showroom*-
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also »t—
-“tub* blocb:,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
showrooms re-a.rra.nged with additional cases and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
PARKE &
»
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Mining Machinery, Steam Engines & Boilers
Sole Agents for
MORRIS MACHINE WORKS.
NEW SPECIAL HYDRAULIC DREDQING PUMPS.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Piekwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
■CMiii—
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
tsr beware of imitations.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIR/VHNGHAn.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
0
N receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole's
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
A GOLD OR SILVER WATCH FREE.
SEND NO MONEY.
We hereby undertake to give one
of our famous Gold or Silver
Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman's)
to every Man, Woman, or Child
who sends us the correct reading
of the following Puzzle..
| D*»T.M”S T**S C-^E'I
The only condition is that, it
your answer i 3 correct, you pur.
chase one of our SOLID STER-
LING SILVER CHAINS, or one
of our ■ Gold-filled Warranted
Chains, to wear with the Watch.
Simply forward your answer
and enclose stamped addressed
envelope, so that we may inform
you if you have won the Watch.
We are making this, offer solely
with the object of introducing
and advertising our goods..
forward your letter to our address..
GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL CO. Pitt St, Sydney,
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
■' :
are the
Sold
bt ALL
First-Class
Stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J
2 Blades 'Pampa
Cocoa Handle - 1/6
Buffalo Handle • 2j-
Stag Handle - - -
g®
Size, s±" x3A x 5".
are
—oi«s jo*
OAl3l| puie
DUPLEX
Call sizes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Kopes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
97 CLA.REKTCE STREET,
, RAND DRILL CO.
RAND COMPRESSORS
All Types and Sizes .
Belt-Driven Compressors tor
Imperial Pneumatic Tools.
♦ : -V
Sole Agents :
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.
883 RAND COMPRESSOR, 1 h.p. per hour on 161 b. Steam,
RAND DRILLS
Record on the N. & W.R.R.
In one month 4 LITTLE GIANTS drove a 169 ft.
heading, 6ft. high and 32 ft. wide, single
shift, in hard, sandstone.
V'- 1
e-j
71 Clarence-st.| Sydney;
486 Colllns-st., Melbourne.
