

BULLOCH LADE’S BULK WHISKY.
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
Cr. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AKD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABL
%
mm
EOBAFtT.
(jadleys Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
m E LTI NG
EVERY BELT GUAR /
J. C. Ludowicl & Son, Ltd., JI7 York St., S
Broad bent’s Direct
f/ec trie a hy-driven
■1 v:.
it
m
For Drying WOOL?
Making MEAT EXTRACT?
Drying SUGAR? Ac.? Ac?
sol* Aar*nt*—
HAND AND TO ARRIVE.
GIBSON. BATTLE & C°
7 Bent Street,
SYDNEY
Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON S
Fine Apple Brand
LO H c U k?B’S
?HE ROYAI.
EDISWAN LAMP.
m
$3
Economy in Ccrrint.
Equality of Lioht.
THE
M & IW
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carirington Street
Wyuyurd Square,
\ SYDNEY.
<|ueensl*.nd I)ep8t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
Mclntyre bros
NO
TEA
LIKE 1/3
OURS!
yy
u
2/- daily
TREAT!
TOOHEYS LTD.
BREWERS, WINE A SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
anti CORDIALS.
S 3
.
OIL
No Other in
the World .
ft
<
&
‘SIMPLEX
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
5 ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
|No Worry of Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Goulson
116 a’Beckett St,
MELBOURNE.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
'•MI
ii 'V;
•: -V
inJb riNcyi
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever issued in Australia.
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s ” Pictures, superbly produced.
CURIOUS XMAS GIFT.
HELI DON SPA —“Stands pre-eminent as a Table Water.”
The Bulletin
Vol. 26.—N0. 1328.]
[Thursday, July 27, 1905.
Registered at the Genefa! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


——-~222i s George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Edward Fitzgerald, “ Eng. Men of Letters Series,” 2s 6d,
post 6d.
Stevenson, Essaj’s of Travel, 6s, post 6d.
Hornung, Stingaree, paper covers, 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Swinburne, Tragedies, 5 volumes, in sets only, 365, post
fid per vol. V 01. 1 just 'issued.
Barry Pain, Memoir of Constantine Dix, 3s fid, post fid.
Bennet Burleigh, Empire of the East, 3s fid, r--^
JUST TO
HAND
MY LADY OF THE NORTH,
THE LOVE STORY OF A GRAY-JACKET,
By Randall Parrish.
With Tinted Illustrations, Cloth, 3s 6d, postage 6d. (The edition sold in America at a dollar and a half )
71 Castlereagh StSydney, & at Me/b., Adelaide, Brisb., & Lon Jen,
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure op
Bronchitis !
and Influenza I
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected long.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says
“Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
HUDSONS EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
(Rmm
KS.'
IBTERED). CONTAINS NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUG. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or
the Manufacturer, 6. HUD'SON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps. Sydney
;: 5& 7 Queen's Place. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 32Q Regent Street W., London.
THE RED PAGE.
TBS GARDEN OF YEARS
THE attention paid in America to such verse-
writers as G. W. Oarryl shows how it is that
our own poetical swans, sailing over wide
waters, occasionally arrive with drooping
crests. Now that matter and energy, in accord-
ance with the prognostic here made six years ago,
have been found to be the same thing, one may
hazard a speculation upon the identity of Space
and Time as two aspects of the eternal mask.
The mathematical proof is not beyond conjec-
ture. Meanwhile one can affirm that Space
equals Time in the region of criticism.
Your foreigner is true posterity ; and his intelli-
gent judgments are the judgments of your grand-
children a hundred years hence. That accounts
for the somewhat languid enthusiasm one brings
to G. W. Carryl. His poems have suffered a sea-
change in crossing the Pacific from the warm
atmosphere of friendly New York.
To the great public, Carryl (he died last year in
early middle-age) was better known by his clever
rhymes “in lighter vein.” The Garden of Years
(Lond., Putnam’s; 6s. net) collects his serious
work in a decorative volume, frontispieced by
Maxfield Parrish and prefaced by E. C. Stedman.
Stedman is pleasant, personal, and friendly: he
was too close to the subject. “Byronic,” he calls
the work. Bossibly, but too much watered:
Byron without pulse and passion, agreeably orna-
menting attenuated American emotions. Grand
Poetry has been civilised and cultured out of
America along with the babies. Carryl scarcely
ever rises to Poetry in our sense : he is moral and
descriptive, he is fanciful and rhetorical: some-
times he is poetical; but we find just one line of
Poetry:
The Seine in silence blots away the past.
It was quite worth while writing a volume to
have written that one line.
It is Paris that seems to inspire Carryl to his
best: there he is caught .and lifted a little beyond
himself:
PARIS .
I knew when first I looked into her eyes,
And she in mine, that what has been must be,
And so let others say she told them lies:
She told no lie to me !
She spoke me fair, of lees as well as wine,
Then, with that subtlest charm of all her charms,
Half-dropped her languid lids, and at the.sign
I ran into her arms 1
Now it is she who flings my window wide
At dawn, and lets the perfumed morning in,
And she who walks so softly at my side,
Through noonday's dust and din.
Bug most, of all, ’t is she, where blue night falls,
Whose firm, imperious fingers tap the pane,
And she whose velvet voice it is that calls,
Nor calls her own in vain !
It is as if the siren understood
llow that she is so strong at this still hour,
That I could not repulse her if I would,
Nor would, had I the power :
As if she knew that, should I try to check
The strength of that enrapt, responsive thrill,
Let her but slide her arm a,bout my neck,
And I obey her will!
So, when she speaks, I answer ; when she woos,
Her voice, like wine, the slow pulse goads and spurs:
I go to meet her through the dropping dews,
And lean my lips to hers.
All the long hours run laughing into one —
The strange, street moment when the evening falls —
And, like a mother summoning her son,
Resistless Paris calls !
“The Garden of Years,” the lengthy title-poem,
is an emotional record of some value, written in a
novel stanza. The phrasing is pictorial:
The blue-robed Indian Ocean slept and sighed,
Decked with her emerald islands, looped in strings
Upon the breathing bosom of her tide :—
Slept all bronze day, and all star-studded night..,
The grim old earth hath seen too many Springs ;
Lovers enough have trapped her charm in words:
To all her flowers the mould of usage clings,
And, to the music of her weary birds,
The burden of reiterated themes ...
Here is the full stanza :
All my life long in memory I shall guard
That sloiv sea-swing that lullabied the heart,
While the thin, thoughtful mast, shrouded and sparred,
Moved in and out upon the silver-starred
Midnight, as if it traced upon a chart:
And the prow forced the fluttering waves apart,
As they had been the leaves of some wise tome,
Wherefrom it read Life's story from the start,
Set to the music of the whirling foam,
Wind-rippled cordage, and slcrw-straining yard.
Carryl has not been able to reconcile us to the
fourth line, which is designed apparently to gain
the effect of a wave at height pausing before
the fall. In practice, it becomes parenthetical
or padded : he cannot train his thought to match
the form. And in the last lines, as Carryl uses
them, one thinks the familiar couplet might have
done better service.
In his inferior passages Carryl can write :
The phases of our duplicated dream
or
Of morning’s mute miraculous intent...
—and so one sees his limitations. He likes ex-
perimenting with unusual words and uses of
words, not successfully :
On her brow is the excellent whiteness of still Sierra
snows ...
or “pinguid sea” (128). This.we hail as anew
epithet from L. pinguis, fat. Carryl refers pre-
sumably to an oily appearance of the water ; but
pinguis, to our mind, conveys too great a sugges-
tion of substance. H ow would “ mtid ” (=sleek)
do?
- J*
The thought is not especially new or deep.
“Ad Finem Fideles,” verses for the graves of
pioneers, is a subject familiar in Maoriland. The
no less familiar “unborn child” motive is less
often treated from the man’s point of view :
How slow upon the air the music dies!
How blind am I, how loath to understand !
The wraiths of dreams denied brush by me, and
I find my unborn bairns in strangers’ eyes !
Exiled, I watch them, romping as they run,
Heartsick for this that now can never be :—
One that should at my coming run to me !
Ah, God ! ah, God ! why hast Thou hid the sun ?
Yet the volume is not to be contemned, and verse-
lovers will find their profit in it. It is worth while
meeting this, for example :
Narcissus, Narcissus, where is thy boyish bloom,
Thy long, slim form that lay beside the pool,
And the lips cold smiling to their smiling image cool ?
Narcissus !
One closes the book with an impression of a
strong, restless, unsatisfied personality, never quite
in tune with life, now harmonised by Death that
can supply a cadence for every chord.
A little easeful sighing
d-rki restful turning round,
And I, too, on Thy love relying.
Shall slumber sound,.
HOMES AND EDUCATION
lIE . higher education of woman is-surely
I extinguishing her race, both directly by its
JL effects on her organisation, and, indirectly,
by rendering early’ marriage impossible for
the average man...
The dutiesof wifehood, and still more of mother-
hood, do not require an extraordinary develop-
ment of the brain, but they must absolutely have a
strong development of the body. Not only does
wifehood and motherhood not require an extra-
ordinary development of the brain, but the latter
is a decided barrier against the proper perform-
ance of these duties. Any family physician could
give innumerable cases out of his experience of
failures of marriage, directly due to too great a
cultivation of the female intellect, which results in
the scorning to perform those duties which are
cheerfully performed, and even desired, by the
unedueated wife. The duties of motherhood are
direct rivals of brain work, for they both require
for their performance an exclusive and plentiful
supply of phosphates. These are obtained from
the food in greater or less quantity, but rarely, if
ever, in sufficient quantity to supply an active and
highly educated intellect, and, at the game time,
the wants of the growing child. The latter before
birth must extract from its mother’s blood all the
chemical salts necessary for the formation of its
bony skeleton and for other tissues,; and in
this rivalry between the offspring and the
intellect how often has not the family physician
seen the brain lose in the struggle...
The highly educated woman seems to know that
she will make a poor mother, for she marries
rarely and late and, when she does, the number of
children is very small... But even supposing that
the highly educated woman were able and willing
to ben and rear her children like any other
woman, she has one drawback from having a
fairly large family, and that is the lateness at
which she marries, the average being between
twenty-six and twenty-seven years. Now, as a
woman of that age should marry a man between
ten and fifteen years older than herself, for a
woman of twenty-seven is as old as a man of forty
for the purpose of marriage, both she and her hus-
band are too old to begin the raising of an ordinary-
sized family. Men and women of that age are old
maids and old bachelors. They have been living
their own lives during their best years ; they have
become set in their ways, they must have then-
own pleasures; in a word, they have become
selfish. And, after having had one or at the most
two children, the woman objects to having any-
more, and this is the beginning of the end of
marital happiness. The records of our divorce
courts show in hundreds of instances, that there
was no trouble in the home while the woman was
performing her functions of motherhood, but that
trouble began as soon as,she began to shirk them.
Hundreds of thousands of 'men at the-present day
are married, but have no wives; and while this
sad state of affairs occurs occasionally among the
moderately educated, it exists very frequently
among the highly educated.
Jt ‘
Is the health of women at the present day
worse than it was in the time of our grand-
mothers? Are the duties of wifehood and
motherhood really harder to perform now than
they were one hundred years ago? Without
hesitation the answer is “Yes.” Not only are
the sexual and maternal instincts of the average
woman becoming less and less from year to year ;
the best proof of which is later and later marriages
and fewer and fewer children ; but, in the writer’s
opinion, the majority of women of the middle and
upper classes are sick and suffering before marriage
and are physically disabled from performing physi-
ological functions in a natural manner. At a recent
meeting of a well-known society of, specialists for
obstetrics and diseases of wometi, one of the
fellows with the largest practice in the largest city
in America stated that it was physicallv im-
possible- for the majority of his patients to have
a natural labour, because their power to feel pain
was so great, while their muscular power was so
little.
On these two questions the whole profes-
sion is agreed, but 1 am bound to say that there
is a difference of opinion as to the reason.
Several of the most distinguished fellows of
the above society claim that the generally
prevalent breakdown of women is due to their
inordinate pursuit of pleasure during the ten
years which elapse between their leaving school
and their marriage. This includes late hours,
turning night into insufficient sleep, improper
diet, improper clothing, and want of exercise.
Tlie writer claims that most of the generally
admitted poor health of women is due to over
education, which first deprives them of sunlight
and fresh air for the greater part of tlie r tame ;
second, takes every drop of blood awav to the
brain from the growing organs of generation ;
third, develops their nervous system at the ex-
pense of all their other systems, muscular, diges-
tive, generative, &c. ; fourth, leads them to live
an abnormal single life until the age of twenty-
six or twenty-seven instead of being married at
eighteen, which is the latest nature meant them
to remain single ; fifth, raises their requirements
so high that they cannot marrv a young man in
good Health...
Another way in which the higher education is
making people unhappy is in the cultivation of
the powers of analysis and criticism. When the
power of analysis is applied to one’s own self it is
especially unfortunate, for then it becomes intro-
spection, a faculty which is carried so far with
some women that their whole life .is spent in
looking into themselves, caring nothing tor the
trials or troubles of those about them. This
produces an intense form of egotism and selfish-
ness. These people are exceedingly unhappy,
very often suffering from what is wrongly called
“nervous prostration,” but which should rather
be called “ nervous prosperity.” When the won-
derful power of criticising is applied to others it
takes the form of fault-finding. Buch a woman
must have many victims; will she make them
happy ?
Jt
There is no doubt that women can do everything
that men can do, and a great deal more ; but the
knowledge of their ability brings with it an
aggressive, self-assertive,- independent character,
which renders it impossible to love, honour and
obey the men of their social circles who are the
brothers of their, schoolmates, and who in the
effort to become ripb enough to afford the luxury
of a wife have to begin young at
business or in the factory, and for whom it is
impossible to ever place themselves on an intel-
lectual equality with the women whom they should
marry. These men are, as a rule, refused by the
brilliant college graduate, and are either ship-
wrecked for life and for eternity by remaining
single, or are only saved by marrying a woman
who is their social inferior, but who, by reason of
her contented mind, in tile end makes them a
much better helpmate than the fault-finding intel-
lectual woman who is looking for an impossible
ideal.
Occasionally a college graduate goes through
the ordeal of a high education, which has de-
veloped her intellect without ruining either her
body or her natural instincts; but, as far as the
writer can see, she is decidedly an exception. To
the average highly intellectual woman the ordi-
nary cares of wifehood and motherhood are exceed-
ingly irksome and distasteful, and the majority of
sued women unhesitatingly say that they will not
marry, unless they can get a man who can afford
to keep them in luxury and supply them with
their intellectual requirements. The gradual dis-
appearance of the home, which any thoughtful
observer must deplore, is, to a large extent, the
result of the discontentment of the educated
woman with the duties and surroundings of wife-
hood and motfierhood, and the thirst for conceits*
theatres, pictures, and parties, which keep her in
the public gaze, to the loss of her health and the
ruin, very often, of her husband’s happiness...
What about the supply of female school
teachers? Is not the very highest education
possible necessary for them ? From the writer’s
point of view most of the women who are now
teaching school should have been married at
eighteen and in a house of their own, which might
have been the schoolmaster’s house. The profession
of teaching was once exclusively in the hands of the
men, and it can not be denied that they have
achieved some great results. But as education
rendered an ever-increasing mimher of women un-
suited for marriage, that is, unwilling to marry
tlie available men, they invaded the schoolmaster’s
rank to such an extent that his salary has been cut
down one half, and nowfhe is unable to marry at
all. Two well-known consequences have followed
this state of affairs; first it is impossible to get
men in sufficient numbers to become teachers for
the boys’ schools ; and secondly, even big boys
being taught by women, the effeminization of
our men is gradually taking place. Although
there are some instances of a mother alone having
formed her son into a manly man, yet as a rule
the boys require the example of a man’s character
to make them manly men. This subject has re-
cently been dealt with in several elaborate papers
by well-known educationalists, to whom it appears
to be a real danger to the coming generation.— P.
S. Smith, in The P.S. Monthly (U.S. A.).
MEMORANDA
Drawings of Albrecht Diirer (Lond., Geo.
Newnes; 7s. fid. net) is: the second book in the
publishers’ “Great Masters” series, designed to
give for the use of artists and connoisseurs some
48 illustrations of each subject, adequately repro-
duced and bound with taste. The present book
justifies the conception and the promise. The
marvel of Diirer : his originality, his fertility, and
his craftsmanship that made Italians (and in
Michelangelo’s epoch) wonder how so good a
thing Could come out of Germany: receives not
unworthy manifestation. The size of the book
enables the whole set of the famous “Green
Passion” to be shown to advantage. Other
treasures are the “ Portrait of an Old Man 93
Years Old,” the Hare and the “Prodigal Son” and
its preliminary study. The introductory notice
is written by Hans Singer, who in the choice
of illustrations has avoided those more familiar
in order to give a variety of studies
and rarely seen, full of instruction
in the pen-drawing and wood-cutting of which
Diirer was master. This rarity of choice gives the
book exceptional value for local students. The
prints have been carefully reproduced, many in
the original colour and extra-mounted.
One of the English magas. is publishing
“authors’ best stories” selected by themselves...
and si. iking our belief that a writer can be a
judge of his own work. Barry Pain selects “The
Kindness of the Celestial.” Now the only very
good “short story” that Barry ever wrote was
“The Girl and the Beetle.”
In Stingaree, E. W. Hornung has added another
to the Barrihm’s collection of monsters which rep-
resent Englishmen’s ideas of Australia. Hornung
has done bright work in his own field : his early
Raffles was good company : but when he gets to
Australia he is always ridiculous. Because he has
the Englishman’s point of view, or because he
doctors his matter to suit the English audiences.
Lacking semblance of reality the adventures of
“ Stingaree ’ m ike a ludicrous book.
Gr. F. Watts (who died worth 80,000/.) willed
many of his hoarded pictures to be distributed
among public galleries ; and N.S.W. Gallery is to
get a picture called Alice —apparently not a
notable work, since one cannot find it recorded or
illustrated in three Watts books examined.
The writer of some recently-published reminis-
cences of Watts says lie detested new brushes, of
which “he would wear the outside bristles down
on a background, or by merely rubbing them on a
hard surface till they became a stiff little pyramid
the shape of a stump used for chalk drawings, and
then they beoame great treasures.” Again,
“when the putty-like pigment which he put on
the canvas in distinct touches was nearly dry, lie
would sometimes take a paper-knife, and, using
the flat part, would rub it over the touches, smear-
ing them together. He would not touch the
painting again till the smeared surface was quite
dry. Then he would work partially over it. In
this way he contrived to get a bloom of atmos-
phere into his painting, a. quality which he always
aimed at.”
Our old friend, the Times Encyclopaedia man,
has broken out in a fresh place. He circularises
people who wrote to him about the Encyclopaedia
(us, too, fortunate possessors of scrap-books and
pictures of “The Okapi; Immature”) with
information concerning The Library of Famous
Literature , another bait on the time-payment
hook. This Library has been here before; and
the public was adjured to buy it for 17/., on the
ground that it was a splendid bargain at the
money. Now, to show what a very hollow drum
was originally beaten, the time-payment man
offers the whole 17/.-worth for SZ, cash —which is
pleasant news for the people who listened to the
drum and purchased the volumes. One flaw in all
such collections is this: the extracts are necessarily
so scrappy that one can get little profit out of them,
so that it is better to put one’s money into com-
plete works by a few of the authors represented.
Another flaw is this: that in trying to please
everybody the editors must include a great deal of
material that is of no use to you, the individual
buyer ; and in buying what you want you pay for
a great deal that is merely a burden. Still, 5 1. is
something like a fair price for the lAhrary—
although a set of the 20 volumes (J-calf) has been
on sale in Dymock’s book-shop for months past at
3/. 10s.
Something very like an organised claque was in
evidence at violinist Hugo Heermannlast recital
in Sydney. Emil Heermann, his father’s son,
who gave a clever rendering, of a Paganini
concerto, was recalled seven times—say six times
more than the performance intrinsically war-
ranted. Hugo Heermann maybe described as a
virtuoso of the German class. He plays admi-
rably, beautifully ; but he plays like a man of
science, who is fond of music. Of musical tem-
perament in the special sense he has little.
What the music gives, he gives correctly and
rather coldly. The people who compared his style
with the style of Melba’s singing were in the right.
We are of those- who like personal emotion in
music. The violin, like t'he lyre, “is a winged
instrument, and should transport.” In Ysaye’s
hands it does; so also in Kreisler’s. These men,
like Paderewski, have the genius of music.
Heermann has only the science. One guesses that
it would have astounded Munich to read the
criticisms (?) in Sydney Daily Telegraph, where
superlatives were lavished galore. When Oairos
Rego comes back, The Telegraph should let his
deputy travel too. The Herald showed a better
appreciation of values, though one would be
better pleased if the writer devoted a little less
space to preliminary-history, and a little more to
details of the performance.
An excellent description of fiddles generally in
The Telegraph was followed by an absolutely para-
lysing com mu ni ca tioty f rom a fiddle enthusiast in
Melbourne, who hoards more lore upon the sub-
ject than anybody ever dreamed was cherished in
Australia. This enthusiast suggests the formation
of a Fiddle Fanciers’ Association, whose members
shall meet regularly (presumably on fences, at full
moon) and compare their treasures. Flippancy in
such a connection is, of course, - deplorable. A col-
lection of old fiddles is as sacred as a collection of
old books. Still, if you have ever met one really
weird fiddle-fancier on the war-path, your imagi-
nation may reel like ours at the idea of the first
meeting of that Association.
In Home Life in France, M. Betham-Edwardes
declares that the native patronage of naughty
French novels would not suffice to keep their
authors going. Russia is by far the best customer,
Germany and England following suit. _ Much of
the worst trash. The Academy believes, is exported
to South America. The worthless Frenoli novel,
in fact (and don’t forget there are a great many
worthy), is an article de Paris provided for the
delectation of visitors, English and other, and
carefully shunned by the French themselves.
Our esteemed contemporary L’ltalo-Austrjiliano
(known to initiates as “The Macaroni Gazette” on the
lueus a non principle : because when you go to Sya.
Italian restaurants you get good soup but no macaroni)
comes of manly age with its 21st number, and grows and
thrives on local news, sensible politics, and the Bonmar-
tini trial—which is still going along in Italy. At date of
last progress report counsel had commenced to read
“ thousands of letters ” which passed between husband
and incriminated wife. Matrimony in cultivated Italy
must be a fine literary apprenticeship.
The Triad (Dunedin) for July prints a set of interesting
photographs of Maoriland birds. —It would be better to
acknowledge the source of reprinted American articles
such as that on “ Recent Amusing Verse.”
J.D.: Thanks ; that is the third copy of that English
paper that has been sent to us. One is happy in the
knowledge that one can always rely upon one’s friends in
such a case. “ All barren !—from Fry t® Cadbury.” Well,
we did n’t butter that writer, one chuckles. Of course,
it is “up to England,” in the’pleasant vernacular, to
“get back a little bit of her own,” Here, for years, we
have been scandalising English notions of propriety, and
knocking tin English gods’off their brazen pedestals. As
to the varnish that admiring coteries daub over popular
authors, we ’ve scratched it off—seven coats ! — and dis-
covered rotten wood underneath. So*there you are. The
worm has got tired of being trodden on without remon-
strance, and wriggles in retort. Quite right of the worm.
. ...0.L.A.: Handed to publishers. ..L.8.: Sorry no space.
MS. returned.
A.G.S.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
■in iflmii. SYDNEY.
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ KBMCf. "Ol
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
The CHEAPEST HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
FOOTBALLS.
All Balls fitted with Best Quality
(IMPORTED) Red Rubber Bladders.
RXJG-JBY OIR. ASSOCIATIOISL
X-v/
mi
M
m
m
Yum
■ -1 .r& s'.
m
v BOVAU
OoT o \/A
,;ra
hr,
'•*r
NICHOLSON’S Men's “ Royal ” Match Footballs, 7/6.
NICHOLSON’S “Royal” Hand Sewn Match, 9/6
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Special Royal ” Footballs, 11/6.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s Extra Special Stpd “A.N.A.,” 14/6
GILBERT’S Best Match Footballs, 12/6.
BRYAN’S “Grasshopper” Match Footballs, 13/6.
“ DIADEM ” Button less Match, Association only, 13/6.
SYKE’S “Rival,” Association Match only, 10/-.
SYKE’S “ Albion,” Association Match only, 11/6.
SYKE’S “League Defiance,” Association Match only, 15/-.
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY. s. d.
Solid Leather, Xo. 1 each 2 3
„„„2 „ 2 9
„„„ 3 3 6
.. „ 4 ~4 3
~ Match II 5 0
ASSOCIATION.
Solid Leather, No. X
„„ „ 2
~ „ „ 3
„„ „ 4
„ „ Match 111
Special Youths’ Match Ball, Best Quality..
s. d.
each 2 6
„ 3 3
„ 3 9
„ 4 6
„ 5 C
„ 14 0
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra Special Value.
No. 1, Is. 9d. each. No. 2, 2 s. 3d. each. No. 3,2 s. 9d. each. No. 4,3 s. 3d. each.
FOOTBALL BLADDERS (Imported). Red Rubber—Rugby or Association.
s. H.
No. 1 each 1 0
„2„ 1 4
„ 3 „ 1 7
„ 4 „ 110
No.
5
6, Association only
5, Rugby only, Special Extra Stout
Rubber
s. d.
each 2 3
2/9, 3 3
eaoh 3 3
We can supply Colonial Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.—Shin Guards.
Stout Twill, with tapes
Stout Twill, straps and buckles
Basil, leather straps and buckles
Brown Basil, extra large continuous leather
straps
Gold Cape, straps and buckles
s. d.
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather
straps pair 3 0
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, con-
tinuous straps, with or without ankle
pads ~4 0
Same as above, larger size ~ 5 0
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOT, blocked toe-cap, very light, a splendid
boot for Rugby, 10s 6d pair.
Extra Quality English-made BUCK SKIN BOOT (white), blocked toe and ankle
pads, guard over instep, very special quality, 14s Gd pair.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOTS, blocked toe-caps, with and without
ankle pads, 11s Gd, 12s 6d, 13s 6d pair.
BRASS IN FLA TORS— Is 3d, Is lOd, 2s od, 3s 6d, 6s 6d each.
UMPIRES’ WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each,
LACING AWLS, 6d each. LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
Stout Mfeh Belts, Double Straps and Pocket, Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
Solid Blocked Leather Ankle Guards, 2/6 set of 4
EAR CAPS —White Duck (open top), 3s each ; Buff Chamois
(netted crown), 33 9d ea. ; Gold Cape (netted crown), 5s ea.
JERSEYS —Men’s Best Quality Navy, Royal Blue, Maroon or
Sky in single colors. Royal and Gold, Sky and Maroon,
Maroon and Gold, Black and Cardinal, Light and Dark
Blue, Black and White, Royal and White, Red and White,
Navy and White, Cardinal and Royal, Black and Royal,
Green and Red, Black and Gold, Green and Gold, in 2-inch
bars, 43/- dozen ; 4/3 each.
Hanoica>
5 /■
STANbARb Ascot
7/3 2/6
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
P. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s Od, 4s 9d
Full Size .. 6s Cd, 7s Cd
Sandown .. .. 3s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. . • 13s Cd
Demon .. ■ • 18s
Whitehouse .. 25 a
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s Cd
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
BOXING GLOVES.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, Us 6d, 12s 6d, 14s Gd set;
60z., 12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois,
Champion shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s Cd set
illustrated Sports, Fishing: Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
dm,
WSL
34
5 10
The Great
Monte
Carlo
Game.
Perfection of
Mechanical
Ingenuity.
Finest Quality
Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert).
PRICE—
10/8
Post
Free.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment
due in about six
weeks.
PUNCHING BALLS.
Swinging Ball, complete, with best
quality Red Rubber Bladder —
7s 6d, 11s fid, 15s, 18s, 20s, 21s,
255, 27s fid.
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete—lss 6d, 10s fid,
18s fid, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fixing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rubber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels—
Is fid, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s fid each
SPECIAL NOTICE
The Celebrated
t£
MAINE "
RIFLE,
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to 306yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2flb.
THE MINE
PiFie
<Sheu/ma Pifle Apsrr
Price 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
AMMUNITION.
Gun Cartridges.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1, 6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
~ 22 Long
~ 22 Long Rifle ..
~ 22 Extra Long ..
$ 100
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Od 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
j 8.8. L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap I< ore-end,
chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. HAMMER LESS GUN, 12-
gauge top lever, genuine Damascus or “Siemen’s” steel barrels, both choke, s,de
f . o „f o f,r Unit extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with
bo” neatly engraved, chambered for 2Jin! cartridges. _ GUARANTEED FOR
ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States ..
“The ReSiable,”
PRICE
m
1
£l2 12s
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 shots in tour seconds, weight £ Q
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 gauge, top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. & E. fore-end, pistol
grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. ..
I
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifle
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 31b. 15s
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V s. d.
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb. .. 1 J
REMINGTON S.S." Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 3£lb 16 S
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.^J
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Telephone No. 769. Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall
and Post Office, and within a stone’s throw of all the theatres.
TARIFF FOR ROOMS ONLY.
SINGLE ROOM: For On# Guest, 2/6 per day, or 15/- per week.
DOUBIiE ROOM : For Two Guests, 5/- per day, or 30/- per week.
BOARD and RESIDENCE TARIFF.
SINGIiI! ROOM: For one Guest (with Full Board), 6/- per day, or 30/- per week.
DOUBIrR ROOM : For Two Guests (with Full Board), 12/- per day, or JE3 per week.
Prompt attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made
this the MOST POPULAR HOUSE IN THE CITY.
Hotel Entrance : MARKET STREET' SYDNEY.
MACHINE LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
“ New Rival,” loaded with Black powder, and
“ Repeater,” loaded with Smokeless powder.
You only have to shoot them to prove their
superiority. They shoot stronger and reload
better than any other cartridges on the
market, because more care and science
have been put into their manufacture.
Ask for Winchester Machine Loaded “New
Rival” or “Repeater” cartridges at your
dealer’s. They have Winchester patent cor-
rugated heads and are thoroughly waterproof.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS EVERYWHERE
j mm t
I by !
ROYALTY.
PECIALQIM
Prevent worn-down heels and unshapely boots. Make one pair of boots
wear as long as two. Reduce fatigue, give grace to the walk and make
every step a pleasure.
Obtainable retail from all Storekeepers and Boot Stores throughout the States.
Wholesale only from D, & W. MURRAY, Ltd.,
Adelaide, Kalgoorlle, Launceston, Townsville, Perth, Melbourne, Brisbane, Broken Hill.
Sole Manufacturers of the Wood-Milne Heels- REVOLVING HEEL Co., Preston, ENGLAND.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
□
The effect of Eno’s 1 Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—So# Capsule marked FHO’3 'FRUIT SALT.' Without It you hare •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pioparod only by J. O. UNO. Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT * WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,spMi:t
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Iffeak Men ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
'W'ill Cura the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen th« Spine, Brain and Nerve*.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
0 Boxes 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases.
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blooa
I Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
' Complaints, Weakness, Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST. f SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ; ,
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST., KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HAN. PETER RA.MU.eCN,
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Weak Women
A BALMAIN TRIBUTE
Many Failures, Final Success.
The Case of Mr. J. BERLIN.
(By a Special Keporter.)
At the bootmaking premise* o! Mr.
John Berlin, which are situated a»
No. 357 Darling-street, Balmain, a re-
porter had an interview ot. su&cient
interest to tb# public to justify its
appearance in these columns. Mr. Ber-
lin’s remarks were . , . ,
•‘For a considerable psnod prior to
two years I was unfortunate in
having a serious turn of ill-health, and
now that I am well again it is my
desire to impart to other suffeiers
such information as will ® nabl * lh f“
to get rid of their ailments also, tor
nothing is so hard as to be dj an , d
not know what to take to get better.
"What was amiss with you, -Mi. Bei-
lin queried the writer,
"Everything, 1 think; for I seemed
to have gone wrong in every conceiv-
able shape and lorm, and what, caused
me to feel my position so keenly was
the fact that 1 could gain no benefit
from anything 1 took, remedies 1
tried were so numerous that l icallv
cannet remember them all, and besides
tlioss things 1 drank a lot of physic
which my doctors prescribed Tor me.
They said my kidneys and byer were
out of order, and that 1 was thorough-
ly run down as wall, and, goodness
knows, they were right for my vi-
talit-y was so low that 1 hada t
enough energy to do a stroke of work
Many a day 1 felt so weary, « u
ti'rlv downcast and fatigued, that
could not remain at my shop any
longer, and I would knock off but
even then J did not better myse f as
1 could find neither peace nor e oy
ment in any direction. What a diUtr-
once there was in mo then competed
to the time when I landed in bydney
from Sweden—which was on the day
that the New South Wales troops ar-
rived from the Soudan. J was then so
hearty and vigorous that I hardly
own strength, but what a
sorry wreck I was a little over two
years ago. 1 was wretched with a
Reeling as if something dreadful was
going 8 to happen—as if 1 bad done
something wrong and was going to be
paid back in my ®wn coin, and 1 took
quite a dislike to mixing in company
1 felt that .1 always wanted to be
alone—that the world was a sham,
and that there was nothing in it to
live for ; and, true enough, there was
nothing in it for me tp live for, un-
less it was to sutler pain and discom-
fort all day Jong. M.y nerves were
very bad—as weak as they could be ,
and on the slightest provocation they
would vibrate and twitch dreadiuUy.
i used to sit and mope about by my-
se-ll thinking of all kinds of unhapp>
thinos, and even wandering in my
mind*: and it surprised those who
knew how even-tempered I used to be
to find that I became cross and ill-
grained over nothing. But that all
conies from the liver, I be-ie v e, for over
since mine was put right by Elements
Tonic 1 have been an> ontirely dinerent
man.” , , . ~
"What induced you to resort to the
use of Clements Tonic ? Was it recom-
mended to you ?”
"Yes; semobody was telling me
about it, and l thought it would not
be a bad plan to see if what was said
was true, and 1 soon discovered that
1 had not been misled, for by the time
1 had taken about three bottles of
Clements Tonic 1 knew instinctively
that my recovery was assured. And
when you hear tuat I had gon>e» from
thirteen stone to ten stone you can
guess how delighted I was to know
that I bad got something at last that
would surely save me. Yes; there was
little more than the frame of mo left,
and I was just as feeble as I lookod.
Bow could I expect to be otherwise with,
the appetite 1 had V Why, some days
£ could not eat anything at all, and
would actually sicken at the sight of^
food ; but 1 Cannot say I any
thin® iik. that alter Clements
had been given a chance of show ing
what it was made of. -No, indeed , the
tables were turned in a very , ,
manner in that respect, for 1
soon eat anything that vyas put beto
me, and didn’t 1 feel easier after meals
compared to what I used to .J- ® ,
ings in the stomach as if it were In
of wind, no cramping pains there, ana
1 didn’t feel as if my clothes were too
tight for mo, as 1 had done. t>u
those were really small matters wiie .
placed in line with the severe heact-
aches that l had to endure every c ay
until it was my good fortune to b#
brought in touch with Clements
and whon that happened—well, the re-
lief 1 gained was wonderful. It wa
not only relief from headaches that i
got, though, but, later on, an a '°. s d‘
lute cure, and another thing- whicn
made me glad 1 stuck to Clemen s
Tonic for a while was the fact that, i
lost all those fits of giddiness
used to attack me. Yes, I used o
leel awfully strange sometimes, as
the room was spinning round, and lot
a brief space 1 would remember noth-
ing. Once Clements Tonic c * ie £'f“
thos« horrible sensations they have
never since occurred again, and I can
truthfully say the same of the smo-
thering sensations in my chesit, winch
seemed to get so tight that i could
not draw my broath. it was quite a
general thing lor me t© hav© nuittul
sensations between tta® shoulders ancf
noht across my loins, but Olcmonts
Tonic did not fail me there either 1 —
no, indeed, it brought ease t® every
part of my body, even to my eyes,
which had' had a heavy, lumpy feeling-
in them for months, and my sight got
clear as well. Upon my life, it wa*
like being b©rn again-, ior whereas pre-
vious to taking Clements Tonic I
could never got a night’s resit, after-
wards I could sleep almost as soon as
my head got settled on the pillow, ajid
1 had none of the old dreams to dis-
turb m© as formerly. And, another
thing, Clements Tonic did away with
the objeotionable taste that- had per-
vaded my mouth, beside®' removing
from the tongue all the slimy coating
ihat it had been, covered with. Whilst
all this was going on my nervous sys-
tem was undergoing a beneficial
change. I became evenly balanced in
mind and steady in nerves, which
showed that Clements Tonic streng-
thens the brain as well as the 'body,
and that accounts for my sleeping s'o
well, and also for ceasing to worry
and to get irritable at trifles. Those
of my friends who had seen me in
agony so long, and who used to give
pitiful glances at me when 1 was wast-
ing away, were spellbound with amaze-
ment at the work Clements Tonic had
done ; and the best of it is that I
have remained cured ever since.”
“Have 1 your permission to print
this statement ?” __
“You may publish it in any way it
pleases you, for I’ve said noiihing but
the plain truth.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, J@J?N BERLIN, o£ 357 Da.rl.Tr-
streel, Balmain, in the State ef New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing ©f five folios and consecutively nuinbt-n. 1
from cue to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my ill-
ness and cure by Clements Tonic and also
contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment ; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
urovislons of the Oaths Aot, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Balmain this
eighth day of November, one thousand nine
hundred and four, before me,
GEO. M. MARSH, J.P.
FREE
LADIES' (Sh GENT.'S
Watches (SI Chains,
Birthday RINGS
Brooches, Curb chain Bracelets—FßEE.
A Solid Gold Ladies’ or Gent.’s Watch cost 3
from to £ io. Don’t throw your money
away. If you want a watch that will equal for
time any solid gold watch made, send us your
name and address at once, and we will send
you 8 boxes of our famous New Life Electine
Vegetable Pills to sell at i/- a box—a grand
remedy and cure for all impure and weak con-
ditions of the blood, kidney and liver trouble, a
cure for constipation and weak nervous disor-
ders, a tonic and a life builder. Our pills are
genuine, and are carefully manufactured from
the very best drugs. They are easy to sell.
Send us your order at once, and we will send
you theB boxes, postage paid. When sold you
send us our money, 8/-, and we will send you
your prize. We are giving these watches and
other prizes to quickly introduce our pills. „_777.
and when you receive your premium we ask you to show it to your friends. Whists agrandopp
tunity to get a fine Watch and Chain Free. Send us your name and address at once. You
take no risk. Electine Medicine Co.. Asia St., Sydney, « .A. W »
rfttt
t®
■VJtfa-* 5 ;
a
Ilf
A Few Remarks from the Department of Public Health.
Head Office, Wellington, N.Z., 16th May, 1905.
Tablets " l am glad to see that you are not ashamed to put your formula on


/
Vi
wvnn'u •*'/’
You go to your barber, week after
week, hoping the shampoo will cure
your dandruff. But the dandruff con-
tinues to form as badly as ever. The
trouble is you do not go at it in the
right way. The scalp is diseased, and
you must cure it before your dandruff
will ever disappear. Simple washing
will never bring this about.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
This splendid hair preparation cures
dandruff because it cures the disease
of the scalp, and then the dandruff
soon disappears for good.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor will prevent dan-
druff, and at the same time it will
keep your hair soft and glossy.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A,
Purveyors by
Royal Warrant
To His Majesty
The King.
If you require a treat , use
“MOIR’S”
PURE PICKLES
They are absolutely
perfect.
An Inexpensive Table Delicacy
“MOIR’S"
Soup Squares
Rich Soup made In a
few minutes. Try some.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUfIY. [2 f
Outs Hines
EVERYTHING else in the
way of shoe-shines is the shine
you get from Hauthaway’s
Crozine
Blacking
which is pleasant and easy to use, and more
than pleasant in the effect it has upon your
boots and shoes. There is no uncertainty
about it. While putting the shine on to the
boots it puts softness into the leather, and
and thereby renders them more comfortable
and more durable. The shine that Crozine
insures is a shine of deep shimmering
black, as brilliant as jet.
Can be had from all Boot Stores.
Insist upon having Hauthaway’s.
It is best to get the best.
C. L. Hauthaway & Sons, 346, Congress
Street, Boston, Mass., LJ.S.A.
CONGREVE’S
BALSAMIC
LIXIR
FOR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
L COUCHS, COLDS,
Bh^CONSUMPTION.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERS.
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK OH CONSUMPTION.
Price Ocl., Poet Free.
From Coombe Lodge, Peekham, London, S.E., England
Iff
HI
n
\/(
m
3e
m.
%
i
A HOME TOPIC.
* * *
The Marvellous..
Curative Properties
0f...
Bonningtoifs
IRISH MOSS
For AFFECTIONS OF THE
LUNGS, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, COUGHS,
and COLDS. 3
n
ARE YOU BALD ?
Providing you have a “down” on thesoalp, I will guarantee that
CAFIIiIiA HAIR, TONIC will make that “ down ” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capita,A. 2/6 a bottle;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. O.
Richards, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Nursery Soap
is
Wright’s Coal Tar Soap.
Suitable for children of all ages.
Protects from all infection.
ROBERT HURST,
FLINDERS ST., SWANSTON ST.,
BOURKE ST.,
All Suburbs, and Ballarat.
No. 271 F.
Special
Gentlemen's
"Zephyr" Kid
Balmorals,
Welted,
Guaranteed,
12s. 6d
No. 271 e.
This BOOT is made
in any Shape to
suit Customers,
and will be mailed
anywhere in the
Commonwealth
for
13s. 6d
Robert Hurst,
MELBOURNE, all . . .
Suburbs, and Ballarat.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Charis—Her Eyes.
Those entrancing
Eyes of Charis,
Where the dancing
Sunbeam marries.
With the softer lights they hold
How shall be their beauty told ?
Are the wings of
Any dove,
Though it springs of
Venus’ drove,
Colored by the Paphian day,
Lustred with a tenderer ray ?
Sunset heaven
Paling slow,
Whence are driven
Clouds aglow,
Sometimes holds in upper skies
Such a grey as Charis’ eyes.
Shimmering, welling
(Lake or river)
Love compelling
Are they ever;
Like all eyes in heav’n that shine
Are those two of Charis mine.
VIC.
P.
Our Tryst.
Long ago, and lovingly,
At the gate she watched for me
In the silent, silver glory of the stars ;
And, just half a mile below,
We could hear the sobbing flow
Of the river droning, drifting on the bars.
It was at the garden gate
(Where the countless lovers wait!),
And I held her soft and shapely hand in mine,
As we played the final parts
In the play of Breaking Hearts—
In the play of Youthful Hopes and Auld Lang Syne.
For I whispered for a space
That I soon must leave the place—
Cross the river, and the ridges, and the range ;
Leave the simple folk I knew,
And the valley where I grew,
For the city—with its fever and its change.
Where our fondest mission fails,
How a woman’s love prevails !
(O the love that drives us on of lures us back !)
How it sends us out to roam,
Or would have us rot at home,
While the braver men (and better) take the track !
Yes, and so it is I stand,
Holding once again her hand
In the shadows sweet and silent by the gate;
And her eyes (O superfine !)
Look with yearning into mine—
And the dearest dreams I had will have to wait!
For, pray tell me what is Fame
But a loudly vaunted name—
’Tis a mockery, a delusion, and a sham !
Aye, and I would rather be,
In the Land of Fancy Free,
Just the youthful, happy lover that I am.
And oh ! tell me what is Life—
Not a weary war with strife,
Nor a fevered fight to merit scanty praise ?
My inmost soul says “ No ! ”
For ’tis settled—l will go
With the lovers down the easy, pleasant ways !
Yea, and so to-night are we
Whisp’ring here in ecstasy
In the glory of the same old blinking stars;
And, just half a mile below,
We can hear the music low,
As the river rolls for ever on the bars.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
The Derwent River.
I want to go back to the Derwent River,
To the orchard bowers and sun-kissed dew,
On slopes of emerald all a-quiver,
The green, sweet ways that of old I knew;
To the river banks, and the far-flung splendor
Of waving grass where the wild bees roam;
To Spring-time visions so soft and tender—
I want to go home to you.
I want to go hone to the roses blowing
In mazes of crimson, cream and gold,
With the star-like jasmine flowers all glowing
A tangled mass in the garden old.
I can hear the click of the garden gate,
And steps on the path where the peach trees grew;
And oh, the longing that comes too late—
I want to go back to you.
I want to go home to the lilies swinging
In ghostly masses of slatey bloom,
In darkened garden, with woodbine clinging,
By opened windows and scented room;
For a little while of dear youth a flower,
When older things shall seem as new.
For just the space of one little hour
I want to go back to you.
I want to go back—now the voice is calling
All soft a 3 rustle of woodland leaves;
As sweet as musical waters falling,
As sad as sigh of a heart that grieves.
The lilac tosses where soft winds shiver,
The moonlit garden is drenched with dew ;
I want to go back to the Derwent River—
I want to go back to you.
VIC.
KATHLEEN WALKER.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
EBTABMBHBP 1349. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leaeehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
and , C.P. CCombined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the seourlty of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stooh or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving ud to 20 ner
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any One.
Directors—ThomasLitolimohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W Mf.f.ks, M.L.C., Deputy Chairman ; Benjamin Short
Esq. .Senator the Hon. 0. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe Esc ’
A General Manasrer and Actuary—Richard Teece, F.X.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. combe, Esq.,
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
Where the Western Drovers Go.
(With apologies to “ Banjo ” Paterson.) *
“ In my wild erratic fancy
Visions come to me of Clancy."
“BANJO.”
The mailman stopped for supper
With us at Clancy’s camp ;
Dead gidya we was burnin’—
We didn’t need no lamp.
There was some of us got papers ;
The Boss he got new boots ;
One chap got notes from FINNEY’S
About their BIG BLOCK SUITS.
Before he’d got half through them,
“ Just hark to this 1 ” he says,
And takes and reads them to us,
By that dead gidya’s blaze.
" If you live ’way off in Brisbane
And a new suit you need,
In indigo-dyed serge,
Or in all-wool fancy tweed,
“ Will you drop a line to FINNEY’S
For patterns to be sent,
With inch-tape and directions
For your self-measurement ?
“Then if you should send an order,
We know you’ll wear with pride
Your SUIT AT FORTY SHILLINGS
That FINNEY’S have supplied.”
Soon us chaps and good old Clancy
In Town turned out moot swell,
In our TWO-POUND TOGS from
FINNEY’S—
The BIG BLOCK SUITS they sell.
To obtain the benefit of style an d comfort at a minimum outlciy, you should wear the “BIG BLOCK "
CLOTHING. This is made specially to your measurements, in Fox’s Serge (Indigo Dye), and in Uiirh-
class Fancy Tweeds. IJS|r~ The Price is -3LO - per Suit to Measure.
The “BIG BLOCK "’ SUITS hang- gracefully, fit perfectly, wear satisfactorily,
and are the Best Value in Made-to-Measure Clothing offering in Australia to day.
YOU CAN’T BEAT
<^FINNEY’S.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms.
They-will be sent you, POST FREE, on receipt of request.
Finney, Isles & Co., Limited, The Big Block, BRISBANE,
OSTRICH PLUITES
FROM THE FAMOUS FARMS OF SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
‘lfl /ft
1 W / U
POST FREE
to any address.
We make this Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes.
Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order payable to
John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
NATURAL OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 21/- Length, 1J yds.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
Your Complete "Writing Outfit!
Pager-*SWAN’ Fountain Pen-Ink
COMPARE THIS WITH—
Desk (you can use chair arm or knee with a ‘ SWAN ’), Box of
Steel Pens, several Holders, Ink Pots and Ink, Pen Racks, etc.
RECKON COSTS—
‘SWAN’ Outfit - say 15/-, total for several years.
Steel Nib Outfit - „ 8/6 annually.
One Filling serves for days—One ‘Swan’ for years.
Reduced Facsimile.
5i ins. long.
SIZE I. SWAN PEN WITH GUARANTEED GOLD NIB.
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
MABIC, TODD & BARD, 93, Cheapside, London.
Sold by all Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURO ALL SIZES 09
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND at.T. MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engine* 41 Water Tubm Boiler*, Woodworking Maohlnery, Steam Pumps, 4c., 4c.
Sols Assnt ro* Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMINC, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
Medicated
TABLETS.
THE GREAT NEW ZEALAND CURE
For Coughs, Colds, Catarrh, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption,
Recommended by the N.Z. Health Department, and
acknowledged by Specialists to be the Greatest Lung*
Food of the day. Sold by Chemists at 1/6 and 2/6 tin.
BJORNSTAD & STACEY, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If not obtainable, write, enclosing stamps, to
The basis of which is “Montserrat " Lime-Fruit Juice.
The Best and Cheapest Savcc.
AOBNTS— Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
Mr. J. KING, Swan’s St., North Freemantle, W. Australia, f
HAS BEEN CURED
OF A SCROTAL
Mb. J. KING
of 20 years’ standing without operation, and has dis-
carded his truss. He had suffered not only from his rupture,
but also from the effects of ill-fitting spring trusses, which caused
more pain than the rupture. He had given up all hopes of a cure
until he heard of the Bice method. He tried it and it cured him.
Thousands of men, women and children have been cured by this
method without pain, danger or operation. Among them are
Chas. Pittner, Mossman, via Port Douglas, Queensland; Mrs.
F. Medley, 331, Swan Street, Bichmond, Melbourne; L. Exton
(child), 2, Harold Street, Newtown, near Sydney, N.S.W.; and
J. Westhead, Biver Darling, Pooncaria, N.S.W. Your rupture
cannot be worse than some I have cured. You owe it to yourself to
at least investigate carefully this method of cure. BEWARE of
any person or persons claiming to be or to have been at any time
connected with me in business in any way. Such statements are
absolutely fraudulent and devoid of all foundation. BEWARE
of all imitations of my method. The genuine Bice method can bo
obtained from my London office only. I will send you a book
giving a complete description of rupture and its cure, and telling
why the Bice method has succeeded in so many thousands of
cases, if you will write for it. Do not be misled by worthless
guarantees, but write for mv world-wide-known and tested
method. Write to-day to W. S. RICE, Rupture Specialist
(Dept. 2320), 8 A 9, Stonecutter Street, London, E.C.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
"OCR FAVORITE” OOU) ENAIWEI. (Washable) Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“BAPOLIN ENAMELS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Bed* and
any other article.
• « BAPOLIN” BATH TUB ENAMEL. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENBORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT." SAPOLIN " FLOOB
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Eto.
ANDRADE for BOOKS and
NOVELTIES.
I
rrf
WITH
Kill Directions
USED BY
3
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kintls, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Is; posted 1/3.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated withoverSO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Datr Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter., Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. AH Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, 6s.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish,
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise:
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Flashlights on Japan, by Dr. Maloney, 6d, post Bd.
God and Mt Neighbor, 9d, post Is. Tom Mann on
Socialism, 3d, post 4d. Shanty Entertainment, Is.
Botiiner’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, ls6d. Stolen Sweets. Is6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter. Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 8s 6d, 16s post.
Age of Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is.
2s6d, and 6s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor. Is.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will' do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 6 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
50S GEORGE ST., 201 BOURKE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
MELBOURNE.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingihcstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
bold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingokstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
BSB HA HBBB HH9
b m b“ ■
rncc
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOP-
PITAL PHYfUCIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST..
DR. RABONSKI, showing 1 sufferers how they may CURB
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Gastlereagh St.,
SYDITEY.
NERYOUSNES&
fcOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at la«t dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS ol SBIiP
CURE, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.Q., BYDWBY.


THE NECESSITY
OF
brushing the teeth morning and evening
becomes a pleasure if you use
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder
with its delicate perfume and agreeable taste.
It preserves the teeth by thorough
and antiseptic cleansing, and also
gives them the requisite polish
without injuring the enamel.
Calvert’s Prickly-heat Soap
is very serviceable in hot climates as
a preventive of prickly-heat and other
irritation of the skin. It is pleasantly
perfumed and contains 10% Crystal
Carbolic.
These articles can be readily obtained from
most Chemists and Storekeepers.
N F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
m England.
Grr
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Ig allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MODELS £2£blQ to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Bim
Brahes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
OflO Second-Hand Cycles
£|||| all makes, jp y O p |n
good as new, *** * *' © ~ a " U
t factory clearance sale at half factory price* .
Em A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agenta
wanted in each district. Large profitß easily m ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our tpecial offer, üßing sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c,., halfpricu.
MEAD CYCLE GO . Depr. b 39
uyerpool, lokuon and chicaqo.
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections!
The Physician**
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and moat
Gentle Medicine fer
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
Tdinneford’s
Jmagnesia
THE
CROSVENOR HOTEL
SYDNEY:
This most comfortable Family and Com-
mercial Hotel has recently undergone a
thorough renovation, and is now quite
up-to-date, under the personal supervision
of .. .
MRS. WM. GANNON,
Proprietress.
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as •'run-down ” or “out of sorts.’* Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
v 5 *
FOR
m
M
W\
n
Not a penny down. Simply drop us a post-
card with your name and we will arrange to
forward you at once one of our latest Improved
High Grade Electric Belts free. You can use it
three months then pay us if cured, and the price
will be only half what others ask for their inferior
belts. If not cured, you return the belt to us
at our expense and your word will decide. We
are willing to trust you entirely, knowing that
we have the best and most perfect belt ever
invented, and nine men in ten always nav
when cured.
WE WILL TRUST YOU
of odern -vr ßelt is , th ® m ° st perfect and complete ever invented. It will cure all cases
-T&S
WE WILL GIVE FREE
be read lv allVe^lw ° n ° C ° p / ° f our beautifull 7 illustrated Medical Book, which should
wrapper If ynn IT 6 "' Dr ° P US / P ost ' card . and we will send it to you Free in plain
800K P and Beh FW w P^ k ln c:i y wa y> delay no longer, but write to-day for our splendid
° v and Pet F ree. Write tp-uay, and you will be satisfied with the result.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.,
„ _ , 317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
. . JNew Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address
We are receiving Testimonials daily from Grateful
Dept* KL
Patients.
SUP
SIS
FRE
Brooches, Rings, etc.
GIVEN
AWAY
aJzi of z h r Sex ’ s ~ din * ustheirName
“ tnaZZi IZTZi* Fr&& 24 Packets of ™
tiunFZTf 1 J° ot £- Powd& r,” and a similar
number of Coupons. Dispose of these 24 Packets among
your acquaintances at the nominalprice of Qd each, and
, , to each purchaser of a Packet give one Coupon, which
entitles that person to a Tooth Brush Free. The continued systematic use of this
wf/T Hard, White Enamel Surface on the Teeth
M Zf- t >r * vents Decay, removes Tartar and keeps thegumshard and healthy
In addition imparts a Delicious Fragrance to the Breath.
Wc don’t ask you to trust us. WE TRUST YOU.
Rprn the money obtained from the sale of our Tooth Powders, and we will at
Fr&o ,, a ”y- firize y° u ma y select from the premium list of Solid
r -Z Articles which we send with the powders. This offer made for a
limited period to extend our already large connection, is surely the most liberal ever
ZcJd P^tern,buf I™' 1 ™' R&member ' ° Ur PrizeS are not Roll ‘* Gold, Gold Filled,
(hill marked.) SO LSD GOLD ,
Free.
Write to-day,
(guaranteed.)
THE DENTAL SPECIALTY CO.,
A U PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT <
FOR SORB AND WEAK BYE®, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A
CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
never fails.
\mwSSL fsp the Little Seek:
&QW T$ Ffiß|B|Y£ THE IYBS”
CURED
Private, Nervous, Skin,
and Blood Diseases, Loss
of Vitality and Vigor,
Rupture, Varicocele, and
all kindred disorders
cured SPEEDILY,
THOROUGHLY, and
PERMANENTLY.
Almost any Practitioner can af-
ford relief ; but men who are weak
and despondent require thorough
and permanent cures. Such cures
are effected daily by Dr. W. Carter
Watson, Chief Physician and Sur-
geon of the
Sydney Institute of
Medicine & Electricity.
He is registered by Government
Medical Boards, and when he
undertakes your case you run no
risk. His methods of treatment
are envied by less skilful Practi-
tioners. He never uses mercury or
other dangerous drugs, and his
remedies are prepared personally in
his private Laboratories. When
he says he will cure you thoroughly
Health, Strength, Vigor, Happi-
ness, Energy, and Ambition
restored by Australasia’s lead-
ing and most successful
Specialist. Has more testi-
monials than any other
Physician In Australasia.
HE IS READY TO BACK HIS STATEMENT
towi A?iSr e i Sti - mon u ls - of •i luncireds of cured patients, not only in Sydney, but from every
thoroue-b examinnHnn , ( H f. lnvlt ?s i' ou to call and have a confidential chat about your trouble. A
weak and diseased consultation will cost you nothing', and he will explain his methods of making
bv numerous nr-r-HH™^ e . a| t fl 3' and Vigorous. It may be that you have been unsuccessfully treated
administered h wA^S/°Ar ev « ence that you are incurable. It means that the treatment was
made of others offers you correct treatment that will make a man of you, as it has
Home Cures by Mail ,
DR. WATSON cures a great many patients every year
without seeing them. This system of treatment is a
special and scientifically managed Department. If
diaffnosed'aa Snntpi r i t nri^ fc f, 0n t e j for ? diagnosis blank which covers every symptom. Your case can be
wor j,. y treated as skilfully in this manner as by a personal interview. His great medical
“MALADIES OF* MANKIND ”
contains^s3 E nrofiiselv\fh eS t °? ‘^ ece^P t of sixpence in stamps to defray postage. This large valuable work
SSL a ed e fcine aPterB ° D the fUnCtionS ° f the human body > and P^perly-applied
FREE ADVICE.
REMEDIES
(including: .43*-f
Carriage), °w I ■
Dr. W. Carter Watson, M.D.,
Chief Physician and Surg'eon
Eto.,
Etc.,
HOURS—
-10 to 5 Daily.
Evenings, 7 to 9
Monday, Wednesday
and Saturday.
SYDNEY INSTITUTE of MEDICINE AND ELECTRICITY,
78 & 80 Urmter-at., Sydne
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
‘PLUM’
Q E Mke fbflf rLinfJif " ior ,r any ?. ther - »*» spectally tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
edge that is reauired to B ® m £ Poetical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR '*** f ° r a “ Umber ° f years > oan testify to
; ™ E “ p LUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Pricb / ®! n eJ e Bazor ’ ? n strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case
\ Single Razor in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case' 3oT'
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part of the World.
IWPlease add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole agents: CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY
New Zealand Loan Agency Co.
SYDNE y, —.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
•* ■*»»Bhk». xznai. tallow. u < mamtttial
?” °* r * fttl 3r • lt ® nd#d «W •*»# 9t highly efficient EXrSSfS whs xtsr rrr l ~*
- Exceptional faoilitiee arc offered by this Qobumbv to WXIAf 4 .
their tran. Full p*rtic«lara will be furnished oa application, * "**


JAS. HENNESSY & CO., COGNAC.
GUARANTEE.
CAUTION. .
Every drop of Jas. Hennessy & Coy.’s well=known ONE
and THREE STAR BRANDIES is Pure Grape Spirit
distilled from Wine only.
The Public should insist upon having Jas. Hennessy &
Coy.’s original bottle and white and gold label as
shipped by them from Cognac.
TARIFF COMMISSION. Extract from the “Lancet” Special Commission on Brandt: “ According to our view it is cuatas,S?in«ni nd aS^tionsof
congeners as ‘ brandy ’ as it would be to call margarine ‘ butter,’ especially bearing m mina tne memo pp
brandy and its special adaptability as distinct from all other spirits for the purpose. -
THE SUNSHINE OF LIFE
Means Abundant Health, Energy, Vigorous Bodily and Mental Activity, accom-
panied by Will Force and the power to compete with everyone in the battle of life.
Is this your condition ?
WHY HAVEN’T YOU GOT IT?
Are your Organs Clogged, Weak, or Dilatory ? Do you throw off the Waste Matters
sufficiently ? You can easily ascertain this, and Tone up the whole Digestive Organs
and Bowels by a course of
LAXATINE
THE LUBRICATING
LOZENGE LAXATIVE.
The People’s Ideal Aperient, Is. Box.
EASY TO BUY, EASY TO TAKE, PERFECT IN ACTION.
DOES NOT GRIPE OR INCONVENIENCE.
31 ALL CHEMISTS.
THE WATCH for COUNTRY RESIDENTS
\ S i
'S
Wo don’t believe any Wat oh cornea ao
near Perfection as the oelebrated
H.B. LEVER WATCH
It has Patent Non-Magnetio Movement, will
stand hard riding, and is almost insensible to the
variations of temperature.
Price 21s.
In Nickel Silver or Gun Metal Cases-
EVERY WATCH EXAMINED AND TIMED BY US AND GUARANTEED.
111.
HBINDORFF BROS., 210 Queen St., BRISBANE.
r
o
12a
Has been recommended by some of
the vtforld’s most eminent authorities
during the fast Quarter of a century
cnee
{mb*
Solo bv
Ai.l Jewellers
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
medals when-ever exhibited.
% Certificate. Given With Each Watch.
e,&9
'BBs
ON/>
lB*'
l»02
fstab*
175 a
s>
HA «1*
HOW
LON
OH/
1
isrt!
spaaed
w
lim-i'j
£l
fill!
pjjlf
©I
©1
imMm
jSwm
HOTEL
KIETROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entranoe to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
seoured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards,
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on appliaa
tion to Thb Manages.
RUBEROIP ROOFING
FOR fIOTOR BOATS.
A correspondent writes: “For awnings for Motor Boats
Ruberoid Roofing is admirable/' There are a number
of Motor Boats on Sydney Harbor covered with Ruberoid, The
Houseboat on Middle Harbor is roofed with it. The decks <
several ocean liners arO covered with Ruberoid. F. Milham,
Twickenham, Thames, England, has erected Ruberoid awnings 01
Boats built for trading on the River Niger, West Central Africa,
is the roofing of utility.
of
Motor
RUBEROID
E. RICH & CO., LTP., Sydij*y aod Brisbaoe


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.-No. 1328.
THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1905.
Price 6d.
AT THE LONELY OUTPOST.
AUSTRALIA, THE SENTRY OF THE WHITE RACE AGAINST THE ASIATIC HORDES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
•‘Australia for the A uslralians. ”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS',
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ■ ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling yon can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week.for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing, with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps arc enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
. for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Made and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct' reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture tvhich has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
11. R. Harrison, Johannesburg; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
llono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
T^teT^xzlleZzn.
THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1905.
THE WHITE MAN’S OUTPOST.
The announcement made by Lord Roberts that
the British army, after all the alleged re-organisa-
tion, is just the same army which failed so miser-
ably in Boer-land, should not come as a surprise to
anyone who has studied recent history. When
the machine went to pieces against a handful
of farmers it was stated, as it had pre-
viously been stated on so many other occasions,
that this time a great lesson had been learned and
it would do the country no end of good. So the
old army was neatly subdivided into different
“ commands” (just as the regiments were named
afresh at another time of upheaval), and the
buttons were altered, and a new bayonet was
introduced which is so short that any other
soldier in Europe who is willing to wait and argue
the point can stick the British infantry-man while
the latter’s weapon is still about a foot distant.
Also a man who used to be called something else
was called an Inspector-General, and that was
about all. As anybody could see, it wasn’t much.
* * * *
The greatest trouble—that the British army is a
voluntary force recruited from the undersized
dregs of the population, and contains not a quarter
enough even of the dregs to make a respectable
force as armies go nowadays—no one dared to
touch. It is impossible to pay enough to attract
really good men—the half-million or so of really
good men that would make Britain reasonably
safe. But to propose the compulsory training of
the whole able-bodied male population would
really be conscription, and Britain has for years
coddled three fetishes —that it hasn't conscription,
that it avoids Protection, and that it never, under
any circumstances, shuts out aliens, no matter
how diseased, ignorant, dirty, criminal or undesir-
able. So the British army remained very much
the same as regards its rank and file. And the
gulf between the dregs in the ranks- and the
dudes at the mess table being too vast to be
bridged over, the officers continued to be a
caste apart men whose qualifications were
largely wealth and fashion, also a knowledge of
polo, and a capacity for doing credit to their uni-
form. The British army now is supposed to'be
just about sufficient to guard the north-west fron-
tier of India provided the trouble there isn’t too
large, and it represents about enough men to
supply the losses of three battles when nations
take each other earnestly by the throat as the
Bear and the Monkey have been doing in Man-
churia.
* * 4 *
And as regards the British navy, it still controls
the sea in name, but as to what the reality may be
there are more doubts than there used to be
Part at least of the downfall of the last Russian
neet was effected by submarines. Most of the
rum of the previous Russian fleet was brought
about by torpedo boats. If the battleship
and the cruiser still dominate the situation,
then Britain is still supreme at sea, with-
out taking any credit for the possible superiority
or the British naval seaman as a fighting
unit when compared with most of his rivals.
If the torpedo boat and the submarine are the
decisive elements, then, assuming the men to be
about equal, British naval supremacy has become
somewhat doubtful. Britain itself begins to show
that it no longer possesses the old cheerful con-
fidence. There is a great calling in of its ships,
and a great concentration of naval force round its
own shores, and a large abandonment of the old
idea that the flag should pervade every sea
and rage up and down the coast of every British
possession. The South Atlantic squadron has
been abolished, and the U.S. flag is supreme
thereabouts save for such hostile argument as Brazil
and Argentina can show against it. All battleships
have been withdrawn from the Pacific, where only
a few cruisers—not, as a rule, of the best
class—are now maintained. Of Britain’s 32
modern and 10 older battleships— 42 in all
—24 are kept cruising in British waters,
nine are kept in reserve in British ports, and nine
are no further away than the Mediterranean. The
best of the cruisers are similarly disposed. It is
openly suggested that when the present naval
subsidy agreement expires, no further arrange-
ments of the kind should be made, and the Aus-
tralian squadron should be called in. Baldly and
undisguisedly the new British naval policy sets
forth that Britain realises great dangers on
its own coasts. Among these are the grow-
ing strength of Germany on one side and
of the United States on the other, the
I rench supremacy in the matter of torpedo boats
—which may jrnt prove more dangerous than the
bulky battleships—and the fact that every attempt
at army reorganisation seems to end up in the
same old paralysis. Among all these troubles, it
is going to take no avoidable chances at sea. The
new arrangement is a blank intimation that
Britain pays for the fleet almost wholly ; that the
fleet exists for Britain’s protection first, and for as
much protection to Greater Britain afterwards as
Britain may feel inclined to give ; and that, while
there is a semblance of danger to Britain, the
colonies, dependencies and all outside may go hang.
• * * *
And Britain is justified in taking a serious view
of its position. It is the worst position that coun-
try has occupied in the last two centuries. The
decay of agriculture through Preetrade and land-
lordism, the inefficiency of such agriculture as
there is, the turning of great arable areas into
sheepwalks, the laying waste of others so that
unpatriotic dudes may shoot deer and maim grouse
and partridges, have made Britain so completely
dependent on outsiders for food that it must keep
the sea open.to it or surrender through starvation.
It must keep the sea secure even if it lets all G reater
Britain go while attending to this one essential.
Therefore Britain, realising the increasing strength
of its enemies and its dubious friends, gathers its
fleet into its own waters. It may not have
sense enough to abandon Freetrade, to strive to
be more self-supporting in the matter of food, to
build up an army worthy of the danger that may
come ; but, at all events, it is taking some strong
measures. Australia, which is in some respects
the counterpart of Brit", .n, isn’t taking anything
except a rest. Britain, if it lost command of the
sea, would be the most helpless country on earth
through want of food. Australia, if Britain lost
command of the sea, or was too busy elsewhere to
keep command hereabouts, would be the second
most helpless country on earth for want of popu-
lation, trained soldiers and sailors, guns and
ammunition, arms factories, iron and steel works,
shipbuilding yards, woollen, cotton, and clothing
factories, boot factories, hat factories, machinery
shops, and everything else that can keep a country
going when imports are cut off, and keep
it defensible when there is no help from out-
side. Almost as bad as all the rest, it
would be wrecked for want of money, having
exhausted its credit in time of peace to
save taxation. And Australia, so far, is doing
nothing to repair its defences. It still imports
instead of manufacturing. It still does without
population, because it can’t get much population
without supplying work for the people, and it
can’t do much in that way without "damaging the
business of the sacred importer. It still borrows,
except in the case of one or two States, because
borrowing is easy. And when Parliament meets
it is understood that the chief business is to be
the injury done to George Reid because his
bloated waistcoat was turned out of office, the re-
distribution of seats, the anti-Soeialist crusade,
and the usual stonewall.
* * • *
This country can’t expect to be the furthest
outpost of the White Man for nothing. To lead
the van is an honorable post if the leader of the van
goes armed in a fashion that makes him respected.
But to sleep on the furthest outpost with an empty
gun and an lOU is only a case of a certain
class of individual rushing in where the seraphim
wisely take a back seat. If Australia had a ser-
viceable fleet of its own, and disaster to Australia
in time of war meant that 20 good war-vessels,
carrying the empire’s prestige with them, had gone
under, it could probably count on British assis-
tance simply on the ground that an outlying
squadron must be supported, and so large a part
of the empire’s naval defence must not be over-
whelmed merely for want of a reinforcement. It
is one thing to aid Australia in its own naval
defence, and quite another to undertake the whole
defence. In the former case, helping in the
defence of Australia might mean keeping the
trouble away from Britain’s own shores; in
the latter, it would merely signify sending
away a fleet to fight a battle at a distance
which could be fought to much greater advantage
in British waters. Britain has little sympathy
with the White Australia ideal, and if the ideal
threatens to bring it into trouble with a dan-
gerous naval power, it will probably think it easier
to coerce Australia which has no ships than the
other State which has many. A White Australia
ideal, with a fleet behind it which could beat
anything else grown south of the line, and even
hold a not altogether hopeless argument with
Japan, would appeal to Britain. A country which
is so completely dependent on the command of the
sea would be appealed to by almost any ideal with
such a naval reinforcement behind it. It is all a
question whether the White Australia ideal is
worth fighting for. The Bulletin reckons it is
worth fighting for to the last man and the last
copper; that it is worth while, for its sake, to
import white population wholesale, to build up
manufactures by prohibitive tariffs so as to find
work for the population, to break up big estates
so as to find land for the population, to pay off our
debts so that we will have credit in the day of
trouble, to train every able-bodied citizen to arms,
to become a naval power, and to pay for all these
necessaries in hard cash.
It is a fact that is difficult of realisation in this
easy-going land that Australia is just as well fitted,
so far as money is concerned, to support a power-
ful navy as Japan is. It has practically the same
revenue as Japan; its people are more lightly-
taxed in proportion to their means; and it has
great land revenues, which Japan does not possess.
The resources are all here, but Japan has the
navy, the military force, the arms and ammunition
factories, the iron and steel works, the ship-
building yards to turn out its own iron-
clads, the fast-growing population, and the
fixed resolve to find work for that population
by building up its own industries Japan
has all these things, and Australia has the horse-
race and the football match. Australia has more
cause to think hard over its position than any
other white section of the empire, and it seems to
think less than most others. If it is merely a burden
in time of war it will be the first place to be aban-
doned—it is the most remote, the one with the
largest coast-line to defend, and the one with the
fewest men in proportion to its coast-line. More-
over, it is the section with which a mostly nigger
and much nigger-loving empire is least in sym-
pathy, and which that empire will drop with
the least compunction. But over and above all
these general considerations there is the broad
hint conveyed in the fact that Britain has begun
to call in its naval resources, and is apparently
going out of the Pacific except for show purposes,
and leaving it a Japanese ocean. Also, Britain
is withdrawing its troops from Canada, which is
another calling in of resources, and another veiled
suggestion to the self-governing States of the
empire that they must hustle for themselves
much more than heretofore.
MORE FEDERAL CAPITAL.
At time of writing the Federal Capital question
had got no further forward, and N.S.W. State
Premier Carruthers is still the obstruction. A
few days ago Sydney Telegraph put the case
baldly and plainly in these words :
The present position is that an impasse has been
reached. The Federal Parliament shows no sign of
abating its condition that an area of 900 square miles
should be cut out of New South Wales for the capital,
which the Parliament of this State has not acceded to,
and is not likely to accede to. The Federal Parliament
declares that Dalgety shall be the site, while the New
South Wales Parliament positively bars Dalgety by re-
fusing to include it among the sites offered.
That was evidently meant to support the obstruc-
tionist attitude which Carruthers has induced
the N.S.W. Assembly to take up, but in reality
nothing much more unpleasant could have been
said about the paltry, shuffling little mis-
chief-maker who disgraces the highest political
office of the State. In selecting the site it did,
the Australian Parliament kept literally to that
proviso of the Constitution which sets forth that
the Federal city is to be in N. S. W. and 100 miles or
any greater distance from Sydney. In askingfor9oo
square miles the Australian Parliament put a very
moderate interpretation on the clause of the
Constitution which provides that the Federal
capital area is to be of any size providing it is not
less than 100 square miles. In all the negotiations
so far the Commonwealth Government and Par-
ment have acted with moderation, fairness and
courtesy, and the N.S.W. Government, and a
section of the N.S.W. Assembly, and a consider-
able portion of the Sydney press, have been un-
couth, surly and bear-like to the last degree.
* » * *
In the beginning of the negotiations the Federal
Government asked the N.S.W. State Government
to suggest a site which it regarded as suitable,
and it surlily refused to take any interest in the
matter. It was months before it could even be
induced to say clearly that it wouldn’t suggest
anything. While this negotiation—if it could
be called a negotiation where one party refused to
negotiate—was going on, and during the period
that followed, the anti-Federal press of Sydney
was full of bitter denunciation to the effect that
the conduct of the Australian Parliament in not
rushing ahead and selecting a site was evidence of
a “Victorian conspiracy ” to keep the capital in
Melbourne. In the end the N.S.W. Government
so far emerged from its attitude of grumpy isola-
tion as to do something. It refused to suggest a
site, or to take any responsibility, but it appointed
a State officer to report on the various districts
that had been suggested. He reported in favor of
the Monaro tableland as distinctly the best, and
this so angered Sydney Telegraph, which de-
sired_ a capital right at the back door of Sydney,
that it went the length of publishing an article, in
which it declared—this when the official’s own re-
port in favor of Monaro was published and avail-
able for everyone to read—that the report really
gave preference to Lyndhurst. The State Parlia-
ment also (still without taking any responsibility)
reserved certain sites for the Commonwealth legis-
lature to select from, one of these being the
Dalgety position, which it now refuses to
recognise in any way. In fact, Carruthers
has the effrontery, despite the published
Gazette notice, to deny that this site ever
was reserved. The Australian Parliament, not
being able to obtain any direct advice from the
N.S.W. Government, either as to the position of
the Federal territory, its size, its accessibility to
the sea or otherwise, followed pretty closely the
theories of the officer whom the N.S.W. Govern-
ment had appointed, and chose a district in
Monaro, which the N.S.W. Government had set
aside, with others, tobe selected from. While it was
dealing with the matter the political atmosphere
still drizzled curses from the Sydney Telegraph
and News about the slowness of its procedure, and
about the “Victorian conspiracy of delay.” When
it had finished—the selection was finally made by
a Government with a N.S.W. man for Premier,
and with only one Victorian in its composition—
the N.S.W. Parliament simply gave a flat refusal,
and then closed up and went away home for a
rest. The Australian Legislature also closed up
for its annual rest, and meanwhile a section of the
Sydney press drizzled curses as before on the
Commonwealth Legislature for its alleged failure
to “act.”
* • * •
When the selection was first made Pre-
mier Carruthers declined to surrender the
proposed site—in the region recommended by the
N.S.W. official appointed to deal with the
matter—because the surrender would deprive
N.S.W. of 40,000 inhabitants, but it was promptly
demonstrated by reference to the census that it
wouldn’t deprive the State of anything like half
that number. Carruthers also declared that
N.S.W. wouldn’t dream of giving up the im-
mense revenue it derived from the district, and he
was convicted of another falsehood, inasmuch as
it was proved that the district yielded less
than the amount spent on it, and was
a dead loss to the Treasury. Just now
Carruthers complains that the region is
too poor and miserable altogether, and that the
Federal Parliament deliberately chose the worst
site—though the N.S.W. official report described
the district as the best—in order to create delay. •
Also, he remarks that it is an outrage that N.S.W.
wasn’t consulted—well knowing that it was con-
sulted over and over again ; and there is again a
plaint about the Australian Parliament’s tailure
to “act”—which it could hardly do, even if it
hadn’t acted already, because it wasn’t sitting till
the other day, its Premier (Reid, of N. S. W.)
having neglected to call it together. Furthermore,
there is much violent language about the pro-
posed site being selected by Victorian influences
and being nearer Melbourne than Sydney—this
despite the best possible evidence that Dalgety is
a good many miles closer to Sydney than it is to
Melbourne. And yet Tumut, which is further
from Sydney and nearer to Melbourne than 'Dal-
gety, and which would be a much greater loss to
N.S. W. than Dalgety could be, is now deliberately
offered by Carruthers. On the evidence there is
only one possible conclusion—that Carruthers
seeks to advertise himself as a strong Premier by
being cantankerous in a petty, childish way, and
that whatever decision the Australian Parliament
had come to he would have been cantankerous,
just by way of showing his little, brief authority.
Moreover, his alarm about the Federal capital
helped to distract attention for a few days from
the fact that the Bill to enable the Land Commis-
sion to call on Mr. Willis to give evidence had
not been introduced, and that, without such a Bill,
Mr. Willis had every chance, if he felt that way,
to become a very scarce Willis indeed.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Land Scandals.
Now that W. N. Willis is safely out of Australia,
the N.S.W. Government will, no doubt, make the
most serious of efforts to ensure that the Lands
Inquiry is made as searching as possible. With
W. N. Willis out of Australia, and with most of
the documents and books which might throw light
on lands maladministration destroyed, an enthusi-
astic eagerness for light can be quite safely dis-
played ; for there is practically no fear of the
darkness_ being dissipated to show up those now
lurking in the shadows. But this belated dis-
play of robust courage will deceive no one. There is
no merit in being brave when the occasion for action
has passed. The N.S.W. Government has several
highly ingenious explanations for its failure to
push home the inquiry into the land scandals at
the time when the Sims case gave a clue which,
if promptly followed up, would have led to a full
disclosure of the truth. And, to excuse its
latest dilatoriness, it uses freely, and, in many
people’s opinion most unfairly, the name of
Justice Owen. When the Royal Commission was
first appointed, with obviously grudged and insuf-
ficient powers, the answer to the agitation for such
enlargement of those powers as would have made
the inquiry reasonably efficient was always that
J ustice Owen was satisfied ; that he had asked for
no further authority, and, until he did,
it would be improper to give it to him.
As if it were the Judge’s place to come
into the political arena, and suggest to the
Government an executive action ! Justice Owen
had no call to interfere in that direction ; his busi-
ness was to make a judicial inquiry into the facts
by the means supplied to him. The Executive’s
business was to see that those means were suffi-
cient. After Justice Owen’s mantle had been
used as a shield for some time, the Government
reluctantly extended the scope of the inquiry; by
that time many of the documents necessary to
elicit the truth had been destroyed. Then came a
demand for more effective methods of dealing with
recalcitrant witnesses, and again the Government
took shelter behind Justice Owen. The witness
W illis prepared to leave Australia. That fact was
the best test of the sincerity of the Government, and
on the test the Government failed. No step was
taken to keep Willis in Sydney, and again the
Government gave Justice Owen as its reason.
As to how far Justice Owen was persuaded to act
as a mask, there is a good deal of doubt. In the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly various statements
have been made by Ministers, the implications
from which are that the Government consulted with
JusticeOwENastowhetherWiLLis could be brought
back as a witness or to answer a criminal charge ;
and that Justice Owen said “No.” Now, did
Mr. Owen express any opinion on the criminal
charge matter ? Most probably not, as it
would be singularly improper for a Judge
to give to a Government an opinion as to
the issue of a criminal warrant in a case
which was at the time under his civil review.
Whatever the truth, the N.S.W. Government
certainly is using Mr. Owen’s authority to the
best possible advantage as a shield. But in the
cold, dry light of the facts, not the skirts of half-
a-dozen Judges could protect the Cabinet from
condemnation. That it has paltered with this
matter, and delayed and hampered the inquiry,
is, and is likely to remain, the public conviction.
Again Mr. Tom Mann.
This is the sort of stuff that Mr. Tom Mann is
talking in Victoria nowadays :
Perhaps someone would inquire : What does Tom Mann
talk of—physical force ? Yes, and he was saying that in
his own name, and those who did not like it could “ lump
it. It was high time that a lot of the namby-pamby
twiddle-twaddle going on in the Parliaments gave place
to work—(cheers)—and he would tell the Melbourne
unemployed that they were “dead slow,” and that the
Labor party was “dead slower.” (Cheers.) Thev could
make things hum if they would, but they did not,'and he
would add that it was high time those who professed and
called themselves Socialists showed what mettle they were
made of, and did not talk so much. No bigger farce was
being played than the Parliamentary farce ; but it was
certain that Parliamentary institutions were on their
last legs. (Cheers.) He believed that Parliamentary in-
stitutions were the homes of mug-wumps and general
bosses.
And the same Mr. Tom Mann, very recently—
alas, how recently ! —was the paid servant of the
Victorian Labor bodies, to orate on behalf of the
Labor party that is “dead slow,” and of the
“Parliamentary farce,” and the “ Parliamentary
institutions that are now on their last legs. ” When
Mr. Mann was drawing £3OO a year to tongue-
wag on behalf of the Labor party, he didn’t seem
to recognise that it was “ dead slow ” ; or that the
Parliament he was urging voters to return Labor
members to was a farce; or that Parliamentary
institutions were on their last legs. Possibly Mr.
Mann is sincere, and always means, at the
moment, what he is saying. If that is so, then
his think-engine must have a habit of stopping
when his talk-engine gets going. Anyhow,
whether he is a talker ready to talk anything that
pays, or a reckless, thoughtless whirler of words,
Mr. Mann’s influence on the Australian Labor
movement, which he is supposed to champion,
has been altogether disastrous.
. . ♦
N.S.W. Railways and the Pawn Ticket.
To judge by the things that were printed, the
other day, when some of the figures for the
N.S.W. Railways’ financial year were published,
triumph had been achieved. The remarks that


were made seemed to suggest that those who had
thrown scorn at the old “ permanent and repro-
ductive works ” gag were left at last without a leg
to wave or an arm to throw more scorn with. It
only shows how little is needed to make a triumph
in N.S.W. finance. It isn’t necessary even to
succeed; it is only necessary to make a rather less
disastrous failure than usual. Here are some of
the hard, merciless facts of this railway situa-
tion :
(1) At the end of the financial year 1903-4 N.S.W. owed
Cohen £80,970,962, of which £47,903,758 was in railways
and tramways. The other £33,067,204 was sunk in other
things—including sand-shifting, paint on park fences, &c.
This 33 millions odd cost £1,260,000 in interest; while its
net earnings amounted to only £435,298. Thus only 59 per
cent, of the N.S.W. debt is represented by railways and
tramways: and the other 41 per cent, is only earning
about 6s. Bd. in the £ of the interest upon it that Cohen
calls for.
(2) As for the railways and tramways, which represent,
even nominally, only 59 per cent, of the N.S. Wales debt,
they earned net last year, before paying interest,
£1,619,756. The Auditor-General showed in his last
annual report that for 1904 the interest on the interest-
bearing capital in the undertakings was £1,640,270. This
year it will be about £35,000 more. This will leave a
deficit of £55,514.
(3) In the lean years it was said that the fat years would
level things up and wipe out the deficit. Last year was
one of the fattest years the country ever had, with phe-
nomenal harvests in all parts; and yet it ended with
another railway deficit of £55,514.
(4) For the past 14 years there have been only two years
in which there hasn’t been a railway deficit —and there
were railway deficits for years before that; only the Audi-
tor-General’s figures go back no farther. For 13 years, to
the end of 1903-4, the gross net shortage was £2,154,190.
But instead of the last fat year wiping out any part of the
shortage, it bloated the deficit still further, and made it
£2,209,704.
Yet, in spite of all this, there are cheerful idiots
who believe that N.S. Wales only need go out into
the street, and whistle, and a mysterious syndi-
cate will rush up and take over the whole public
•debt in return for the railways ; wherefore, con-
tinue these polite lunatics, why worry about the
public debt ? And less frank but more dangerous
persons, like Carruthers and his crowd, while
they don’t say this, act as though they believed
it; and the public watch Carruthers add another
couple of millions a year to their vast I O U, and
hardly say a word. Even when they set out to
throw bricks at him they don’t throw this brick.
«
The Truth About North Queensland.
Australia, as a whole, has been lied about pretty
consistently by the Stinking Fish party, but
North Queensland has been lied about with extra
vigor. The daily press represents it ag a lurid
locality, in comparison with which Hell is as com-
fortable as a Collins-street tea-shop, and has
declared that cane - trashing there is merely an
unpleasant way of committing suicide. These
papers have not, however, published themselves
in North Queensland, wherefore the opinion of a
scientific man, who has lived up North for years,
and who knows his nigger and his climate and his
cane-field, ought to be of slightly greater value.
Consequently one inclines to listen to the remarks
of Dr. T. F. Macdonald, of Gerald ton, N.Q.,
representative of the Johnstone River Central
Mill Association, made recently at the Queens-
land Farmers’ Agricultural Conference. Dr.
Macdonald has the bad taste to differ from the
Melbourne Argus, and the S.M.H., and D.T., and
the other papers that go to so much daily trouble
to keep the white man out of the Australian
tropics. “ The climate of North Queensland, cor-
rectly understood and intelligently handled, is,”
he says, “not only the best, but absolutely the
very best, climate in the whole round world.”
Postulating always that it must be “intelligently
handled,” he is enthusiastic over its qualities :
In the tropics of Queensland nature is lavish of every-
thing, and particularly lavish of the basic elements of
agriculture, viz., land, water, sunshine. It would almost
seem that nature, fearful of having overdone the thing in
sunlight, hastens to correct her error by sending us the
wet season in the very height of summer heat. While
our brothers south of the tropics are being broiled alive,
and those of the western tablelands are frizzling under
the naked sun, we in the glorious north find the heavens
heavy with clouds, the air cool with rain, and drains and
backyards flushed with floods. If we suffer, it is from
having too much of good things.
Clearly this Macdonald individual should be
put down. He smashes cherished idols without
mercy
Man himself forms no exception to the tropical rules of
development. It is a matter of simple fact that people,
under otherwise healthy conditions, develop both in body
and mind in the tropics. Note the development of those
tall, slim children, born of white parents in hot regions.
They grow mostly into young giants ; and, even as
strength comes to the men, so does health and beauty
come to the women, when a reasonable observance of
tropical hygiene obtains in immediate social surroundings.
And this is that North Queensland which was full
of corpses and dry bones and gibbering things,
that scared the average spectator half way to
Kadesh ! Somebody must be lying, and it must
be this doctor. The Fat Press couldn’t lie. It
didn’t lie about Chowth Africa or the wreck of
the Petriana, or the Six Hatters. Further, in his
pestiferous report
In my experience, all races of men, all shades of color,
thrive equally well in North Queensland ; and all alike are
subject to the one adverse element of the tropics, viz.,
tropical disease.
Thv! deplorable person contends that the white
and the Kanaka and the Chow and the Jap and
the mongrel stand on the same physiological
level; and that the climate doesn’t walk round
the other way when it sees a nigger or a half-caste
coming:—
It is not the climatic conditions, not the heat, mois-
ture, nor peculiarity of sun rays that sap the life of men
and women and children in the tropics. For the colored
races are not immune to tropical diseases any more than
the white man. I will further contend that many tropical
diseases are not natural to North Queensland, but have
been introduced by colored peoples ; leprosy, for instance,
by Chinese, and ankylostomiasis (or earth-eating disease)
by Arabians.
Dr. Macdonald proceeds from this point to con-
sider these various diseases and suggest remedies.
His own special study has been the earth-eating
disease, which he regards as vastly more serious
than has been generally supposed. But the larger
conclusion of his whole story of tropical phe-
nomena is that there is absolutely nothing in the
theory that a colored skin is the right skin for the
country.
Australia Imperturbe!
All eyes are open but those of Australia. The
rest of the world notes the unfolding of the Asiatic
power and sets what it means. Here and there
is bestowed on Australia a glance of the con-
temptuous pity which is cast to the beast already
at the shambles. The Englishman, the principal
Anglo-Indian newspaper, commented the other
day:— , >
Is it at all likely that Japan would covet India ? Surely
not while Cochin China, Siam, the Philippines, and
Malaya, to say nothing of Australia, lay, so to speak
under her very nose? The perturbation of Australia has
long been noticeable and is entirely comprehensible. The
establishment of Japanese supremacy in the Far East
raises Imperial problems connected with Australian
defence which can only be solved by the statesmanship of
genius, if at all.
And the comment is just, except in so much as it
refers to the “perturbation” of Australia. The
Englishman has probably got an idea that Aus-
tralia is perturbed from the efforts of The Bul-
letin to make it so; but the idea is, unhappily,
inaccurate. A very small section of Australia
shows any interest in the matter of its threatened
destruction. The great bulk of the people give
their minds as usual to the cricket scores, the
boat race, the football figures, and the weights for
the Melbourne Cup. Not a warship is being built;
not a gun forged ; not an extra soldier trained ;
not an effort made to lighten the fetters of debt
which will leg-iron our steps when the time comes
to march out to fight; not one bloated landlord
has been rooted out of his run to make place for a
village of yeomanry. Australia perturbed ? Not
a bit of it. The London money market for
loans is improving. The Labor party has
sunk the fiscal issue again. The land agents’
doings are giving the people something to talk
about. And Armstrong has made 303, not out.
Australia perturbed ? No; it drifts to its fate
calmly. It is infected with “national agnos-
ticism.”
„—
Westralia and its I 0 U.
Till the t’othersider came, and for some years
even after that, the auditor was one of the very
rare birds of Westralia. Even the Westralian
Bank didn’t have an audit, or, if it had one, it
never published the results. The State had some
sort of an Audit Department, but as it had been
years since even the Savings Bank accounts were
overhauled, all that the department amounted to
didn’t matter. Later on, three years ago, they
borrowed a man from Victoria to tell them
whether things really wanted auditing or not ;
and the report was hot enough to scorch the
pigeon-hole into which a scared Minister stuck it
while he sat down to think. One result was
that a real auditor was appointed to do real
auditing ; and the things he has just begun to
say make interesting reading. Take the railway
accounts, for instance. The annual reports have
shown profits running up to 11'48 per cent, on
total capital expended; last year 4 - 56 per cent,
was claimed. On the strength of these figures not
only has the Government gone to Cohen for
another trifle at various times, but the big
absentee co.’s have perseveringly bitten the
Government’s ear for reduced freights, and the
biting has mostly been successful. Now, however,
the Auditor-General tells Parliament, in his first
report, that it has never yet been informed of the
real position with regard to the railways, and
doesn’t know whether they have been a suc-
cess or a failure. It is certain that the true
position isn’t nearly as bright as the published
figures have shown, and it is on the strength of
these figures that the concession-hunters have had
their demands granted. Thus, though Westralia
has repeatedly paid through the nose in its pawn-
ing transactions, the railways on which the loan
money was spent haven’t been charged with the
cost of raising the money ; and when money has
been put into stores, the railways haven't been
charged with interest; also, they haven’t been
charged with stores which have become obsolete
and valueless. This means that when Bigjohn
paid £50,000 to borrow £1,000,000, he paid it out
of the loan, and made no effort to wipe the debt
out, but went on cheerfully assuming that it was
represented by something “permanent and repro-
ductive,” though it wasn’t represented by any-
thing which a nail could be driven into or an
IO U gummed upon. Also, it means that, when
Westralia put Cohen’s money into railway
stores, and the stores rusted, the loss wasn’t
made good out of revenue; the rust and
white ants were kept in the State’s balance-sheeet
as still worth 20s. in the £ of Cohen’s money.
Under any tolerably honest system of finance,
when the loan wasn’t represented any longer by
anything of value, the amount would have been
made up out of revenue, and the loan repaid—or
the amount put into a sinking fund, which
amounts to the same thing, provided the sinking
fund is nailed down securely enough. But the
intolerably dishonest finance system of Westralia
didn’t stop at that. “ Relaying,” says the Audi-
tor-General, “has been almost entirely carried
out from loan moneys.” Thus the State borrowed
money to build a line, and when that line was
worn out it borrowed another lot of money
to replace the first line, so that two lots
of debt and two lots of interest have
now to be carried by one lot of rails.
Presently, unless that disreputable system is
wholly altered, the second lot of rails and sleepers
and bridges will also be worn out; then a third
lot will be necessary, and that will mean a third
lot of interest. When that happens the people
who will be using the railway will be bled to pay
three separate Cohens ; if they can’t stand it, the
deficit will have to be made up out of taxation.
Any time and anywhere this double-banking of
the bill of sale, and this plastering of three IO U’s
on to one culvert, this making the son go on paying
interest on the bridge that his father wore out,
and on the engine that collapsed under the
weight of the loads chat somebody else’s grand-
father put behind it —anywhere and any time
these things would be preposterous and dis-
graceful finance. But in Westralia such things
are more preposterous and disgraceful than
usual, because the things that are worn out and
not paid for are worn out in skimming the cream
off the country—in gutting the mines of their rich
ores, and rushing the proceeds by the million to
their foreign owners—leaving the two or three
Cohens to be settled with by a new generation
that will have to make the best progress it can on
the skim-milk. All these things The Bulletin
has been saying for many years past; now that
Westralia is told practically the same things by
its Auditor-General, after an examination of the
accounts, the State will have less excuse than ever
for not doing something definite. And that some-
thing must take the shape of a severe remodelling
of the public service, probably an entire recon-
struction of the railway tariff, and certainly a
large increase of taxation. All these things are
unpleasant; but that doesn’t matter. It is only
in the Scriptures that the spendthrift prodigal can
feed On the fatted calf ; and even in the Scriptures
he had to go through a preliminary course of
husks.
• o
The Canada Myth.
A pressman who has been there writes :
v l fc J s time that somebody pricked the Canada
bubble, and it would pay some Australian Govern-
ment or some enterprising Australian newspaper
to send a capable man to that cold spot to find
out tlm truth about it. Because the place is booming
with a fictitious prosperity, unthinking people have come
to regard its prosperity as genuine and lasting. But, of
all boom places, the Canadian Dominion is probably the
worst example. Its good points and the secrets of so
much of its success as is real are (1) the high, practically
prohibitive, tariff, which has enabled it to become, with a
comparative handful of population, one of the manufactu-
ring- factors of the world, and (2) its non-borrowing policy,
or if it isn’t a policy, at least its habit of not borrowing.
And these are the points generally overlooked by those
loudest in their wails that Australia should look to
Canada.
In its land and settlement policy, Canada is, has been
and is still, living on its capital and, when the day of
reckoning comes, it will probably he in a condition
several shades worse that the worst railway-ridden State
of Uncle Sam’s republic. The land available for settle-
ment under tolerably decent climatic conditions com-
prises a narrow strip, one-half of which has been given
away to a private company on the gridiron land grant
railway principle. The other half is being given away to
immigrants from other countries. So freely has this
largesse been dispensed that people who now go to
Canada in the hope of taking up land, find —like a num-
ber of discontented Victorians who tried the place—that
the nearest available blocks are 40 miles from the
nearest railway line (not station). The land offered to the
Victorians was certainly prairie land, and that did away
with the trouble of clearing ; but there were no roads,
and during four to six months of the year it was
absolutely snow-clad. The taking up of such land may
be an excellent speculation for a man with money enough
to hold for a rise, but for the farmer who wants his next
season’s crop to carry him forward to the following year,
it is a cold proposition indeed.
Every writer on Canada, and every person who has
visited the place, either dodges the issue for the man with
only his labor to sell, or else tells a doleful tale. It is
admitted that there is only six months’ work in every
year for the farm laborer, and during the other half year,
when the place is under snow, he has to crowd into the
cities and loaf out his time on what he has saved. Agri-
cultural Canada is essentiallj- a place for the man with
capital enough to start a well-equipped, up-to-date farm
and wait for extended transport communication with
his markets. Even under the rotten system of land
settlement that has hitherto prevailed in Australia, the
lack of rainfall in certain districts and the necessity of
clearing land, this country stands miles ahead of such a
place as the Dominion, where nothing can be done during
half the year and the cattle have to be treated with a care
the Australian cocky does not give his own children.
Canadian soil is productive as far as cereals are con-
cerned, but, as the land is worked, its produc-
tiveness will certainly fall off. The working man who
is not a man engaged in one of the manufacturing indus-
tries had better give Canada a wide berth, and, if Aus-
tralia had a sufficiently high tariff to establish the same
industries, she would get just as big an influx of artisans
anxious to improve their condition. As for the farmer
with capital, there is nothing in the land now available
in Canada to take away any man who can get a block in
the Riverina.
♦
The N.S.W. Lands Commission Again.
Some very curious things have happened in
N.S.W. Assembly over the Bill to extend the
powers of the Lands Commission so far as to
enable it to compel witnesses to attend and give
evidence. The Bill was admittedly aimed in part
at W. N. Willis, the most interesting among all
the probable witnesses, who is on his way to
South Africa. Willis was delayed in Westralia
by two warrants issued against him by a private
N.S.W. citizen, and while this delay lasted,
and while Willis was still in the country,
the Bill which might have given the Court
power to call him back to give evidence was
not introduced. When he was discharged by the
Westralian Court, and in a fair way to resume his
voyage to Africa, the Bill was brought up with an
aspect of wild-eyed, wild-haired haste, and it was
proposed to suspend the Standing Orders that it
might be rushed through with excitement and
celerity. But various things got in the way of the
rush. The first day a Government supporter
blocked progress with an adjournment motion re
somebody named Murphy. The second day the
Carruthers Government itself postponed things
for a few hours, and the haste began to
evaporate badly. Then the Government assumed
an unexpected attitude, and said that it couldn’t
bring W. N. Willis back to give evidence,
because the Commission had given him leave to
go away. This struck the public as quite a new
departure. All that the public knew was that
W. N. Willis called in on the Court one
morning, and declared that if he couldn’t
give his evidence there and then he wouldn’t
be available for some weeks, as he was
about to undergo medical treatment (which
isn’t quite the same as leaving for Africa),
whereupon the Court assured him he would
have an opportunity to be heard later on (which
isn’t exactly the same as leave of absence in a
foreign country). Justice Owen, who presides
over the Lands Commission, also emphatically
contradicts the Government, and says that he
“never sanctioned, recognised, or was aware”
that W. N. Willis intended to leave the State
until he was informed by Minister Ashton that he
was actually gone. One way and another so many
things are happening that it begins to appear as if
the idea that change of air will do W. N. Willis
a lot of good isn’t wholly W. N. Willis’ idea;
and it also looks as if he may be back a
long time before there is any unanimous desire for
his return.
♦
Britain has been in a great fluster through a
report that a foreign syndicate was reaching out
for certain South Wales coal mines; and Bal-
four’s Government was driven by the sudden
fury of the fluster to announce that it wouldn’t
allow anything of the sort to happen. Poor old
Britain has to slough more and more of its Free-
trade folly. Once it opened its arms to the world
and said, “ Let ’em all come.” Now, in the course
of a month or so, it has taken steps to block the
undesirable pauper and the undesirable foreign
capitalist. And, having begun, it won’t stop till
it has been consistent and blocked also the
undesirable joint - product of the two of
them. A curious side issue of this coal
matter, by the way, was the cry of the
S.M. Herald that Britain must take strong
measures to obliterate the German syndicate and
all such syndicates, or it would be lost. Yet that
German syndicate was simply accused of invest-
ing foreign capital in England to develop the
great natural resources of the country—at least
this is the way the S.M. Herald puts it when a
foreign syndicate buys up Australian mines or
other Australian industries. Why does the S. M.
Herald reckon that a policy is good enough for
Australia yet not good enough for England ? That
paper reckons that England should get rid of the
German syndicate in a high-handed and energetic
manner, but when Australia gets rid of a foreign
syndicate, the same paper says that capital is
being driven out of the country by disastrous
Labor legislation.
♦
The Australian (meaning Victorian) Women’s
National League stands committed, through its
secretary, Miss Watson, to a policy of profound
disrespect for the Chamber of Manufactures
party, that commends local products to local
patronage. Charles Atkins, president of the
Chamber, lately referred to the League as
being mainly a body of genteel Toorakiennes,
willing to turn up their toes rather than
tread their native land in “colonial”-made boots.
To which the gilt-edged Miss Watson replied
that he had better be more careful in his remarks
or he would “ alienate ’’ those members of the
League who have thusfar condescended to buy
“colonial” goods, and “whose purchasing power
must represent a considerable sum in Victoria.”
The League, on this showing, is almost as much
of an anti-Australian organisation as Charles
Atkins declared it to be. If the feelings of the
majority are further insulted they will require the
minority to boycott local manufactures by con-
fining their fairy tootsies to imported shoes, and
rejecting all the jams and pickles and things
which have not been branded in Britain. Mean-
while, the encouragement of Australian manufac-
tures is silently permitted by the A.W.N.L.
' 7 o— : —:
Bendigo (Vic.) is just now raging at the council-
lors of Kyneton shire, in whose territory lies the
little township of Lauriston. The golden city
boasts a typhoid fever rate just seven times greater
than that of Melbourne, and repeated investiga-
tions have shown Lauriston to be the cause
thereof. Lauriston is situated on the banks of the
Ooliban, whence Bendigo draws its water-supply,
and Lauriston’s sanitary arrangements are de-
scribed as “ primitive, rudimentary and disgust-
ting.” Bendigo has been speaking firmly to the
Kyneton councillors ever since 1899, and the Board
of Health has also insulted them several times;
but Kyneton is a long-settled district of well-to-
do farmers, men of hoggish tendencies and
covv-like habits of thought, who view the
matter with the ox-eye of indifference. This
matter, by the way, has an indirect bearing on the
Federal capital question. The Commonwealth
asks for 900 square miles—-barely enough for a
city, a reservoir, and a water catchment area, so
that it can control its own water supply and keep
it clean. N.S.W. Premier Carruthkrs, on the
other hand, wants to give so small an area that the
water supply of the Federal city shall be in State
territory, and if the Federal city is poisoned through
the State allowing dead cows to accumulate on its
catchment area it will have no remedy save writing
letters of remonstrance. The Commonwealth has
already found that when it writes a letter to the
N.S.W. State Premier it often has to wait as long
as six months for an uncivil answer, and as for
getting anything really done, that is almost hope-
less. And it doesn’t want to have to send the
Federal army to pick the State cat out of its reser-
voir. It has also got to consider the fact that if
it accepts the miserable area that CarruThers
offers, it may have no reservoir at all, except by
the State Government’s permission, and it would
be undignified to have to hire a land agent to get
a grant of a bit of ground to keep its tank on.
♦
Thus “G.H.”: —
Old King Cole goes to considerable trouble and expense
in order to further his piebald-Australia fad. He pre-
sented me with an armful of statistical and informative
compilations, the other day, all bearing on the Chow
question, and all laboriously arranged by the ancient
book-hydrant himself. King Cole puts his finger on a
vital spot when he says in the yarn about “Cotton
Growing,” that “if we do not effectually occupy the
tropical half of Australia, in time we shall lose it by the
overflow of colored population from the congested coun-
tries to the north of us.” We have got to get there i rst,
and we’ve got to stay there, in order to prod the aliei?
back with a rifle-barrel when he commences to slop over.
Australia must breed more white men, and must attract
millions of better-class white immigrants, and must send
them up to garrison the North. Half of “Cotton-Growing”
is devoted to an exposition of the nobler side of the Chow
character, and King Cole injudiciously remarks (page 11)
that “it is nothing short of dangerous to infer that he
(the Chow) may be easily' forced or driven. No race upon
earth can be more stubborn when angered.” Yet King
Cole implores Australia to import a few million of the
stubborn heathen off-hand, merely in order that the
atmosphere may be filled with whirling hoes and large
clods of Chow profanity when Ah Mino’s pig-tail has been
accidentally pulled, or sacrilege to that effect. There
seems to be something lopsided about the argument that
we had better import the Chow by the shipload, because
he is such a quiet, industrious worker, and that we had
better be remarkably polite and obsequious to the same
vegetable person, for fear he should cave our skull in
with an axe. The two Chows seem to be in violent con-
tradiction of one another ; and Australia had better hang
lire about the importation until King Cole has properly
sorted out his wild, tame, fierce, gentle, angry, meek and
infuriated pagan.
Some suggestive figures have been published re-
garding Maoriland’s imports of clothing. In
1883 they amounted, at manufacturers’ cost, to
£2,013,565. By 1894 they were down to £1,559,966.
But since then there has been an increase, year
by year, of the foreign-made stuff. For five years
the figures have been :
1899 .. .. .. £2,123,135
1900 .. .. .. 2,420,241
1901 . .. .. 2,474,978
1902 .. .. .. 2,004,004
1903 .. .. .. 2,935,118
The Arbitration and other labor laws date from
1894. In other words, these laws date from the
year when the imports of foreign goods began to
increase. Up to that time the tariff had been
enough Protection against the cheap foreigner.
The cheap foreigner was, in fact, fought
with a Protective tariff and with his own weapons
—long hours and low wages. Then the labor laws
decided that those last two weapons should not be
used ; but they left the tariff where it was. They
stopped the Maorilander working long hours for
low wages, but they didn’t stop the Maorilander’s
competitors working long hours for low wages, and
they didn’t shut out the competitors’ long-hours-
and-low-wage goods. They partially disarmed the
local workman, without, to any extent, disarming
the local workman’s enemy. They didn’t carry
the process, as in low-tariff Australia, to the
absurd length of giving the foreigner an actual
advantage in many industries over the local man,
but they greatly reduced the local man’s advan-
tage. Woollen manufactures and the like are
still growing rapidly in Maoriland, but the above
figures show that they might grow a vast amount
more rapidly than they are doing. And no coun-
try should be satisfied until it is doing its best.
Merely to do well isn’t enough.
A letter from Vandemonia :
Hobart Mercury, which is among the stupidest and
least truthful of Australasian newspapers, is at all points
a typical product of Vandemonia. In the old days when
Jack Davies roared on the fringe of Vandemonian society
and politics, the Mercury was at least a positive weapon
in the land. When any man offended Jack Davies, him
the Davies paper straightway set out to suppress. The
suppression was without stint or scruple, and the method
uniformly pursued was the method of the unpopular
practitioner who stands at dark corners after nightfall
with a sandbag. Thus it happened that the various
comparatively honest and intelligent, persons who were
not of the Davies brand in politics and otherwise, were
mostly in hot water in Vandemonia. That day passed,
and Jack Davies passed, and the methods of the Davies
paper changed superficially. The old man had been
hot-blooded and courageous after his manner,
and when society cold-shouldered him he mostly
hit back, using language that was, at times, almost
beautiful to contemplate. The new generation showed
a Christian desire to patch up the family feud with
society, and in that high enterprise still persists. The
paper changed its snarl to a grin, and buried its battered
bludgeon in the back shed. The Mercury became respec-
table. Bill Sikes went out, and the reign of Pecksniff
was inaugurated. The Davies paper ran on rigidly moral
■ lines, with a rigidly expurgated dictionary. Politically,
however, it was and is still the same old print. It holds
strenuously to the opinion that the worker was never
meant to govern himself. Its ideal democracy would be a
multitude of serfs and a Legislature of haughty persons
with Blue Blood. It is a devout worshipper of Blue
Blood, and a devout believer in, the essential superiority
of money. Incidentally, of course, it is compelled to
prevaricate most damnably. It still, for instance, almost
daily deplores the ruin of Maoriland by socialistic
legislation. The idea that Maoriland is prosperous, the
Death is the end of life : ah, why
Should life all labor be ?
Let us alone. Time driveth onward fast,
And in a little while our lips are dumb.
Let us alone. What pleasure can we have
To war with evil ?


Caillcr’s
Swiss Milk
Chocolate
COMPETITION
FREE
WATCHES
for
Everybody.
Four 18-carat Gold Watches Worth 15 Guineas each.
200 Ladies’ Keyless Corsage Watches. 72 Gent’s Keyless Lever
Watches, going 8 days. SEND YOUR ADDRESS on a
Post Card, for FULL PARTICULARS of the above COM-
PETITION.
GAILLER’S
Mutual I,ife Building,
Martin Place,
SYDNEY
9
Vi
CO
sc
A? ree
( if x
V v
*
WJ Flaxes (%,
Tobacco leads
All others follow.
wo
o
■~Y'
IN
MIL
GALLAHER UP BELFAST,
BELONG TO NO TRUST OR COMBINE.
Mercury stubbornly refuses to entertain fora moment
Maoriland is Socialistic : ergo, Maoriland is in the soup'
The lamentable point is that the Mercury is honestly
typical of Vandemwiia. In Tasmania, where the old
Vandemoman tradition dies hard, things are goino- steadily
from bad to worse, and it rather looks as if the worst in
the not distant future, will be repudiation and State
bankruptcy. Already the State is not really solvent
There is an incredible incubus of unproductive public
debt ; a large part of the best land of the State is lying
idle in the hands of monopolists ; there is no sound scheme
of taxation ; there is noticeable no ideal of national
honesty and true citizenship ; and the present Government
of nonentities is almost the most ridiculous that was ever
boggled into existence in any Australian State. Having
its keen eye on Vandemonia, Maoriland may be cheerfully
forgiven for persisting in its evil course.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty s “The Way to Kenmare.”
Theatre Royal “ The Midnight Mail.”
Criterion “ The Earl and the Girl.”
Palace The Great Thurston.
Lyceum Great American Theatrescope.
Queen’s Hall ~. New Folly Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess s “ The Walls of Jericho.”
Her Majesty’s “Trilby.”
Theatre Royal “Woman and Wine."
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville.
-V
If it were possible to look at a musical
comedy from a new point of view, then The
Bulletin might have something fresh as young
wattle to say of Sheridan’s last production at
Sydney Criterion, “The Earl and the Girl.”
Standing on one’s head gives one point of
view but not a cheerful point. There is the
bird’s eye view and the worm’s point of view, the
dyspeptic point of view and the optimistic out-
look. Sizing up “ The Earl and the Girl ” from the
ordinary point of view, the comedy is bright, far-
cical and successful. The collaborators of the piece
have corraled such characters as may be seen any
day in almost any out-of-door place in London.
An earl and a girl— the girl and scores of other
kinds, a dog-trainer and his girl, an iron-jawed
woman from a circus, a Yankee solicitor—this last,
by the way, is a creation. The writers didn’t seehim.
They just said, “ Let abounderbe,” and abounder
was accordingly. A gentleman whose name is
Crew-Boodle needs little introduction. He is on the
charge-sheet, otherwise the character cast, and his
quids are studded picturesquely about the tavern-
scape. An American heiress is almost the key-
stoneof thecomicarch. Jim Cheese, the dog-trainer,
is persuaded for a consideration to take upon himself
for one night only, the name, state, troubles,
debts, and affairs of the heart, of one Dick War-
grave, heir to an earldom. He does not know of
the troubles until they fall upon him as bricks
from the top of a factory chimney. Mr. Sheridan
acts the Shoreditch earl-apparent; in fact, he, Miss
Maud Amber and Winfield Blake give the Cri-
terion’s patrons a better three-shillings worth than
is good for any audience. Miss Amber has
some not very notable songs to sing and
act, and she does with them all that a beautiful
woman with an attractive voice may do. “By
the Shore of the Blue Mediterranean,” sung bv
Mr. Blake, is one of the sparklets of the night,
and is a capital ad. for a fairly deserving locality.
Miss Florence Faning, as the loud-voiced, bluster-
ing strong woman of a circus, is a capital study.
This young lady is showing distinction in her act-
ings of the unattractive roles allotted to her. Miss
Heba Barlow, as Liza, the dog-trainer’s bit o’
skirt, dovetails neatly into his humorous antics.
Other characters in the musical comicality deserve
mention, and may get what they deserve in another
issue.
At Sydney Royal “ The Midnight Mail ”
makes 60 miles an hour nightly, from a box-office
point of view, and there is no talk of a change of
bill.
* * * *
Sydney Philharmonic had the help of
Watkin Mills and co. in “The Messiah” at the
Town Hall on Saturday night; but the honors
went to the chorus rather than to the principals—
in the first part of the performance at any rate.
Or perhaps the triumph (for the very fine render-
ing of “And the Glory” reached that high point)
was conductor Hazon’s. But Hazon was a sick
man—too sick, after many months of wearing
illness, to keep the chorus up to the standard
which it reached in the early numbers. Mr.
Harold Wilde’s “Thou Shalt Break Them” and
Mr. Mills’ “Why do the Nations?” were con-
spicuous among the solos. So was the blare in
“ The Trumpet Shall Sound,” but not in the same
way. The trumpeter is rare ; and the cornetist
isn't a satisfactory substitute. Santley found one
when he sang the air in Melbourne, and the
veteran was so startled by the discovery as to turn
and pat the performer on the back. Miss Edith
Kirkwood and Miss Lonsdale helped to put red
marks around Saturday night’s performance.
* * SK-
At Sydney Her Majesty’s Andrew Mack
still battles through many vicissitudes from his
claim in Colorado to the earldom and the estates
of Kenmare, where the blarney comes from.
This “Way to Kenmare” is strewn with a
cynical villain who would improve matters if he
weren’t always so cynical, a charming heroine
whom Mack marries at the end of the fourth act,
a long and entertaining Dutchman, a jaunting
car, and a quantity of brogue ; and it is brightened
by four songs which Mack warbles sweetly at
various stages of the interesting journey.
* * * *
The Great Thurston, with an army of
subordinates, a ship-load of scenery, magic effects,
and costumes, opened at Sydney Palace on
Saturday night to a packed house. Mr. Edwin
Geach’s mouth won’t have to go down at the
corners when he thinks of the reception of the
magician and the receipts at the box office.
One of the most wonderful of the mysteries
to slow music is the unpacking of a beautiful
young woman from a box within a box.
One minute she’s on the stage, the next
a high Saratoga glides down a rope from the ceil-
ing, and within this are two trunks, and within
the inmost is discovered, after it is unpadlocked,
the brunette beauty. The beauty, by the
way, is Mrs. Thurston, an American, who
comes of a theatrical family. Her grand-
father was one of the first adaptors and
players of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” throughout
America. His family was so large— seventeen or
so—that he needed little or no outside aid. From
Degree to baby in arms were his own kin. Thurs-
ton will keep the Sydney public wondering at
fresh wonders for some marvellous days to come.
*& * *
At Sydney Lyceum, in these regenerate
days, you can only see the world, the flesh, and
the Devil through a glass darkly. When The
Bulletin looked in, a lady was doing some extra-
high kicking, and showing quite as much under-
standing as is thought proper round at the Tivoli;
and then she turned a somersault. But, alas ! it
wasn’t warm flesh and blood—it was just a cold
cinematograph picture; the wickedness of the
world put through the freezing process, as it were,
and served up in a form guaranteed not to bite!
It wasn’t all dancing girl, however. There was
the boat-race—not much of it, but enough to
swear by, though for quality not to be compared
to some of the older pictures of which the bill is
mostly composed. Still it was a commendable bit
of hustling to pot even IGOft. of the race and
serve it up the same evening on a sheet of calico.
-X- « «- *-
In the intervals of watching a man trying
to keep the sharp points of the crayfish’s claws
from sticking through the paper, in the tram, the
writer pondered on the struggle to make things
look like something else. Down at the Sydney
Lyceum they were throwing pictures on a screen
and trying to make them look as though they were
alive; over at the Tivoli there was a crowd to see
Milo, who is very much alive, look as though she
were dead, or, rather, cold marble. And Milo
succeeded best. They perch her upon a pedestal
and set her in park-like scenes ; and she is for a
few too-brief seconds Psyche, or the brown Venus,
or the de Medici, or some other of the statued
triumphs of olden days that the artists rave about
and the cigarette fiend would strike matches on
if he could reach them. While Milo is settling
herself down into some new pose, Cruikshank fills
up the blank with a lightning sketch. It’s a
novel “ turn,” artistic and well-managed. Miss
Challis, a descriptive vocalist of considerable
dramatic power, has joined the people who get
their names printed in large letters; and gene-
rally the programme goes several dwt. to the ton
better than the last crushing.
In Spite of tedious waits between the acts,
“The Walls of Jericho ” held all the sympathies
of the crowd at Melb. Princess’s last Saturday.
Alfred Sutro doesn’t lash a new set of degenerates
with a new whip. They are the same de-
generates—in dress and manners brought up
to date whom Sheridan lashed with the
same whip in “ School for Scandal.” The
genial drunken satirist of yore treated them as a
joke, and the circumstances leading to Lady
Teazle’s retirement from the “School” were
humorously put. The whip was lightly applied.
Sutro, the modern satirist, presents the hero of
his play as a society preacher proclaiming the
moral corruption of the Smart Set into which he
chose to marry, whereas Sir Peter Teazle merely
called himself an old fool for being the husband
of a girl who got into the Set after she was
married. The new play is more directly forcible
than the old comedy in the first three acts, but it
ceases to be strong the moment the preaching
ends. The last act is merely a conventional re-
conciliation between husband and wife, the lady
being the reformed party. Seeing that they are
both going to retire to Queensland the author
might as well have let them attend one more
meeting of the Set—as the Teazles did —in order
to bow themselves out.
* * * »
The showy, eloquent character of Jack
Frobisher brings Herbert Flemming back to the
stage where he formerly represented a less serious
specimen of Queensland’s squattocracy in more
respectable English society. That was in
“Captain Swift.” A good actor (likewise an
Apollo) at that time, Herbert Flemming is now a
better actor, who impresses the local eye with his
resemblance to Surgeon O’Hara. The character
is just about up to his age and weight, in a sporting-
way of speaking, and he fires off his tremendous
volleys of caustic remarks very effectively. No Aus-
tralian millionaire in real life ever talked so well or
commanded so much respect for his manner of
putting his foot down. Brough is contrastingly
subdued in the quiet part of the other man from
Queensland. Carter Pickford does well as a pro-
fessional seducer who gets some encouragement
from Lady Alethea, until he grows too demon-
strative, and Miss Beatrice Day is essentially in-
teresting as that Lady. She lacks emotional
power and fine polish in her acting, but she has
magnetism and a handsome, high-spirited appear-
ance. Of the other ladies, Miss Temple is best
fitted to her part; and concerning one or two of
the other men, silence is the most charitable
policy. “The Walls of Jericho” will certainly
prosper.
* * # #
At Melbourne Town Hall there is to be a
return of Hugo Heermann next week, when
Watkin Mills and liis Quartet will likewise appear
again. In the meantime Branscombe’s Glee Party
will supply one last extra farewell concert in
response to pressing request.
* * * *
“ Trilby,” revived for the second time at
Her Majesty’s (Melb.), is another reminder that
the original Australian production—Melbourne
saw it at the Princess’s—was supported by a
powerful Svengali in Reuben Fox, an excellent
Gecko, and an almost phenomenal voice—the
voice of Regina Nagel in its early richness. Also,
the drama carried more pictorial effect on the
Princess’s stage than it seems capable of else-
where. “ Trilby,” less picturesquely managed and
without a remarkable voice tohelpthehypnotic illu-
sion along, is a rather unsatisfactory drama, and the
third act, dedicated to the decease of Svengali, is
put to very poor account by Gaston Mervale.
Made up with a striped countenance—half white
and half the color of a raw steak—he doesn’t even
look dead when required. Miss Nance O'Neil at-
taches all the importance she can to the colorless
character of the barefooted, tone-deaf young
woman, and the Laird, Taffy and Co. look more or
less like the men Du Maurier sketched. After
the “Trilby” revival “Marie Antoinette” will
be played for a few nights.
* * * #
A good audience gathered on a cold, wet
Saturday night (July 22) to warm itself in the
radiance of “Woman and Wine,” at Melbourne
Royal. Play in question, though lacking the
first flush of novelty, continues popular as an
exciting, showy production in which Bland Holt
masquerades as the Eton-jacketed papa of a
bouncing, affable baby, addicted to kicking hard
with a pair of long, scarlet legs. Walter
Baker, as the gallant young Englishman inveigled
from “ happy home, fond father, and faithful
friend ” by a marble-hearted French adventuress,
looks, as heretofore, noble in the centre of the
limelight, especially when defending himself from
the charge of murder, in an elegant speech full of
alliteration. Another winsome trait in the prodi-
gal’s demeanor is his habit of “uncovering his
head in the presence of womanhood.” Let his
mood be what it will—madness, despair, defiance,
or desperation—a “pure, good woman” need only
approach and the chivalrous wastrel’s alabaster
brow is bared to the breeze, and kept like that till
the tableau is dispersed ! Real life is full of better
men with worse manners.
* • * *
Harrie Ireland sins gracefully in a series
of effective toilettes. Frances Ross and Mrs.
Bland Holt, as the good angels of the play, are
driven to console themselves with the conscious-
ness of superior virtue. In the matter of dress,
they are hopelessly outclassed by the frocky repre-
sentative of the world, the flesh and the Devil.
Mam’zelle of the Marble Heart looks well to the
last, fights for her life in a witching dance-
robe of golden hue, and is hidden by her mur-
derers in a basket of gorgeous blossoms. Arthur
Styan makes Caliban, the ghoul of the flower-
market, just the same uncanny, old sensationalist
as heretofore. Albert Norman is decorative as a
curled and scented miscreant, while Maurice
Kemp, as the blind old father, is so fussed
over by the good angels of his acquaintance that
lie reminds one of a rich old bachelor in a board-
ing house. Jennie Pollock depicts La Colombe,
the heroine of the flower-market tragedy, as a
fine, upstanding virago, proficient in the art of
wearing gay garments and knifing troublesome
rivals. “Woman and Wine” is located mostly
in Paris, but it has a special Horsetralian attrac-
tion in a race-course scene with real gee-gees and
a crook jockey.
* * * *-
The “Players’” three performances of “The
French Maid,” at the Bijou, confirmed the faith
of those who regard Melbourne as a nursery of
musical comedy. In comedy, without music, local
amateurs thrive somewhat amazingly on the in-
struction of Gregan M‘Mahon, and when dancing
is required as well as a reasonable capacity for
stage business there is plenty of material avail-
able from the schools. In this case Mrs. Green
had control of the terpsichorean catering,
and the result was a bright display of
leg work, with no crudity in any of it.
The music was not up to the level either of
dancing or acting. A ragged orchestra was prone
to lag behind the dancers, while the chorus-
singers strayed at times from the tune, and
looked shamefaced till they heard themselves
stumble back again on to the missing melody.
Last week’s revival saw Ada Reeve’s part
entrusted to Irene Dillon, already popular here-
abouts as a chic dancer of decorative stage appear-
ance. As the French Maid she achieved a quick
success, rendering her songs with point and arch-
ness, in spite of a heavy cold on her 17-year-old
chest, and maintaining throughout, the fizz, flutter
and flirtatiousness traditionally demandedof a Pari-
sienne chamber-maid. Early on the second night
the luckless Irene hurt her ankle, but she danced
prettily enough under the subsequent difficulties.
Gladys Hartwell made something of the oddities
of the Admiral’s lady, and Stuart Kilgour cum
others did satisfactory work. The performance of
the cockney sailor by one Greig—there were two
Greigs in the cast—was positively breezy. Lionel
M’Cartney was responsible for a clever dance of
the vigorous type, which when performed by an
amateur, is apt to set nervous spectators shudder-
ing lest the dancer’s more important garments may
go by the board, in emulation of his cuffs, belt,
etc. After saying these complimentary things
about the workers it is permissible to bemoan the
fact that they wasted their intelligence on “The
French Maid ” the weakest and most witless of
musical comedies.
* vz as *
The story of the Man who sold his Soul
to the Devil is of perennial and powerful interest,
and Melbournians will have an opportunity of
pronouncing upon Berlioz’s “ Damnation of
Faust” on Tuesday, Ist August, when the Phil-
harmonic Society will perform this strikingly
dramatic work. The society’s chorus, the male
portion of which has recently been much strength-
ened, will be assisted by a full orchestra, St.
Paul’s choir boys, and Miss Lilian Reid, Mr.
Gregor Wood, Mr. Horace Stevens, and Mr.
Henry Rofe. Mr. George Peake will conduct,
and Lady Northcote is to shed the light of her
countenance upon the occasion.
* *- #- *
Adelaide still remains true to the Knight-
Jeffries combination, and it crowded the Royal
to see “Beaucaire,” and the up-to-date Silver
Monarch who requested that the Universe should
be put back on his account. Knight, in mere
modern trousers, w’as something of a novelty. At
time of writing he is engaged in chasing Mercia
round the Early Christian furniture, and the lady’s
speed is something extraordinary considering her
clothes and the piece of wood with which she is
ballasted. At the Tivoli a fair all-round show has
been enlivened by a slight unrehearsed blaze in
the Biograph apparatus. Heermann, the fiddler,
occupied the Town Hall at a tarilf curiously styled
“popular prices” (lowest admission 25.). Also
the two rinks—real ice and roller—compete
desperately against each other w'ith races and
hockey matches and fancy carnivals.
THE WALLS OF JERICHO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A man came up to “Jericho,” where all the “smart’*
folk dwell—
Jack Frobisher, from Queensland, with the means to cut
a dash ;
The people’s mannahs bored him, and their morals !—O !
the smell !
But he entertained them freely, and he lent them lots of
cash,
As squatters do, you know,
When they go to Jericho.
So the daughter of a marquis deigned to take him for her
mash ;
She married him for money, but she loved him fairly well,
And the twain begat a son within the Walls of Jericho.
Now, the Lady Alethea, making light of dear old Jack,
Flirted openly, and gambled in the Jerichoan way,
And she merrily informed him when she caught him
looking black
That she’d like him rather better if he’d look a little gay.
It’s a duty husbands owe
To the world of Jericho ;
Whilst their ladies call the piper, they must simply grin
and pay;
Seeking sinful consolations oil the matrimonial track,
And doing as is done within the Walls of Jericho.
Another man from Queensland came unwarily to pass
Among the gaudy wasters, and was taken by their style.
His friend, old Jack aforesaid, told him not to be an ass,
And warned him that the wasters were incomparably
vile.
But the man from down below
Lost his heart in Jericho.
Lady Alethea’s sister knocked him silly with her smile,
And he didn’t care a button for the warning words, alas !
He preferred to fall a victim to the thieves of Jericho.
Then Jack cut short the chapter of his fashionable life,
To make his home in Queensland, where is virtue —of a
kind.
He swore he’d take the youngster if he couldn’t take his
wife ;
She haughtily protested that she meant to stay behind
In the world of Jericho,
But her tears began to flow
When domestic recollections came a-crowding on her
mind ;
And she put a happy finish to their unconvincing strife
By fleeing with her consort from the stink of Jericho.
The story has no moral, for the wasters didn’t care,
And the other man from Queensland kept the other girl
in view;
The Duchess, and the Marquis with the scanty head of
hair,
And all the younger members of the pestilential crew,
They are still at Jericho,
There was nothing said to show
That they thought of coming Southward to infect the
Kangaroo,
Or shock the tender feelings of the simple native bear.
They are left, beyond redemption, in their putrid Jericho.
The Wild Cat Column.
The tin boom in Melbourne rests on insecure
foundations. Scarcity of tin in the world’s markets may be
admitted. Is north-east Tasmania capable of supplying
the deficiency? Judging by the number of floats, and
the things said about them, it should. Consequently
there ought to be a slump in the value of the metal. So
far, however, there has been nothing of the sort, and it
may be judged, therefore, that the world isn’t taking at all
seriously the statements made of the possible output from
the mines that have come on to the market. These floats
fall naturally into dredging shows and sluicing- shows.
When the history of Tassy’s tin-sluicing mines is looked
up, there do not appear to be any recent successes out-
side of the Pioneer. The record of co. failures is, on the
other hand, dismal, and it can be foretold with safety
that when the summer comes on there won’t be enough
water to go round, even if there was che tin to want
water. It is good advice not to buy into a sluic-
ing claim unless it has an assured water supply,
and unless it has been properly bored and sample 1
by people who can measure up the strength of an engi-
neering problem. Dredging claims require the same essen-
tials and a bit more. They want it shown that the bottom
is suited to dredging, that sunken timber is not plentiful,
that clay is absent, and that the tin can be saved in the
length of a dredge pontoon. No one comes out of this tin
business better than the Tas. Minister of Mines, who felt
it his duty to issue a warning against the “ wild cat ” side
of the boom.
* * * *
Present tin market is higher than the average
of any year in this generation. The jump has been re-
markable :
1896 .. £59 911 1901 .. £llB 12 8
1897 .. 61 8 0 1902 .. 12014 5
1898 .. 71 4 1 1903 .. 127 4 6
1899 .. 122 8 7 1904 .. 126 10 0
1900 .. 133 11 6 1905 (July 22) 146 0 0
For 25 years before 1896 the average had only in three
years reached £lOO. Present abnormal price isn’t by any
means satisfactorily explained ; and, anyway, the boom
that is built on abnormal prices isn’t likely to last.
* ★ * Hi
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Added to Re-
Profits. ‘ ‘ Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Dec., 1898 £40,864 8 p.c. =£40,000 £864 £1,026,681
June, 1899 42,340 8 „ „ 40,000 2,340 1,029,021
Dec., 1899 45,251 9 ~ „ 45,000 251 1,029,272
June, 1900 50,880 10 „ „ 50,000 880 1,030,152
Dec., 1900 51,509 10 ~ ~ 50,000 1,509 1,031,661
June, 1901 51,228 10 „ „ 50,000 1,228 1,032,889
Dec., 1901 51,249 10 ~ „ 50,000 1,249 1,034,138
June, 1902 51,254 10 „ ~ 50,000 1,254 1,035,392
Dec., 1902 51,455 10 „ „ 50,000 1,455 1,036,847
June, 1903 58,768 10 „ „ 50,000 5,768 1,045,615
Dec., 1903 64,649 10 „ „ 50,000 14,649 1,060,264
June, 1904 65,555 10 ~ ~ 50,000 15,555 1,075,819
Dec., 1904 65,570 10 „ „ 50,000 15,570 1,091,389
June, 1905 65,204 10 „ „ 50,000 15,204 1,106,693


Central Mining <£, Tramway Appliances Prop.
64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Ltd.
STOCKS in Sydney and Melbourne:—
Steel Rails, Trucks, and all Tramway Accessories.
ROb6V Portable & Fixed Steam Engines, Oil Engines, etc.
Bagswarwimcaaas EAGLE DSAND of Explosives (Gelignite, etc.).
MELBOURNE OFHGs : 504 LITTLE CGLLINS-ST. A. E. Leplastrier, Manager
Antimony Ore
Wanted for Cash.
t ui mwiggaeMW.' ■ '.w «»-MMniMWBMacnBBMaMM
Address Offers or Particulars to
H.W., Melbourne Office of ‘The Bulletin/
369 Collins Street.
PHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor Oil,
* Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, Shellac, “Sun
Brand ” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro*
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
J3Sr Correspondence Invited.
HY. MARKWALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle
Auokland, Wellington, Dunedin, Ohristohuroh.
*bT all the circumstances into account, the profits
f, excellently maintained. Circumstances alluded to
Lest shown bj 7 this comparison ;
p. . . June, 1904. June, 1905. Increases.
’' &c - •• -- £11,291,140 £12,338,812 £1,047,672
St,, ? m circulation .. 390,227 428,059 37,832
All circulation .. 537,620 599,331 61,711
p u “quid assets .. 4,769,015 6,347,800 1,578,785
premises .. .. 447,725 458,600 10,875
'-'Oin and bullion .. 2,559,004 3,058,208 499,204
Advances .. .. 9,134,953 8,723,456 411,527
T. hus deposits have grown and advances have shrunk, and
iere has consequently been a very notable accumulation
. liquid assets, of which another £200,000 has been put
into Government securities and another £205,000 let
out on short call in London ; but of the balance just
upon half-a-million is lying, unremunerative, in the
vaults. What this bank wants is a larger demand
f?* legitimate advances; and it won’t see any-
thing striking in that way until the indus-
tries to supply Australia’s needs are transferred
from foreign parts to Australia itself; and that, again,
won’t happen until the Stinking Fish defamer of Australia
!® s 'lenced and the Australian Protectionist majority puts
its beliefs into practice. At present this bank holds no
less than 47J p.c. of its total liabilities to the public in a
hquid form ; 23 p.c. is in coin and bullion. This is a
vvaste of money and a grievous loss of profit; and it is
about up to people interested in the bank to consider how
far they have hitherto encouraged the unpatriotic policy
which is responsible for it. On the basis of shareholders’
funds (£1,000,000 capital and reserves as above) earnings
have been as follows (p.c. p.a.):—
June,’ol .. ..£5 0 10 Dec., ’O3 .. ..£6 6 5
Dec., ’Ol .. .. 5 0 10 June, ’O4 .. ..6 7 3
June,’o2 .. .. 5 0 9 Dec., ’O4 .. ..6 6 4
Dec., ’O2 .. ..511 June,’os .. ..6 4 8
J nne, ’O3 .. .. 5 15 4
Shareholders’ position will probably show some improve-
ment as the result of the recent cut in deposit rates.
And that brings the depositor up against the same snag
as the shareholder has bumped against, and ought to set
him, too, inquiring how far he has encouraged the
Stinking- Fish yarns, and the importing- habit, and tbe
other unpatriotic w 7 ays of Australia. He has money to
put into factories and industries or to lend out on' the
security of factories and industries ; how 7 far has he been
responsible for a system under which foreign capitalises
have furnished the money to build the factories, &c., in
foreign countries, to supply Australian needs, w'hile his
own money has been accumulating in banks’ vaults until
the banks tell him they can conveniently do with no
more, and that for what they have they can only offer him
reduced rates ?
* * * *
The Australian Joint Stock Bank (Sydney):
Profits by
Purchase
of Depre- Added
Banking ciated Written to Re- Re-
Profits. Deposits, off. serves. serves.
Dec., 1898.. £266 £266 £57,737
June, 1899.. 1,358 1,358 59,095
Dec., 1899.. 2,912 £88,90S 91,820 150,915
June, 1900.. 2,057 20,565 22,622 173,537
Dec., 1900 .. 2,548 19,963 22,511 196,048
June, 1901.. 13,465 21,947 £ll,OOO 24,412 220,460
Dec., 1901 .. 3,584 12,663 16,247 236,707
June, 1902 .. 2,043 20,840 22,883 259,590
Dec., 1902 .. 3,463 17,559 21,022 280,612
June, 1903.. 4,190 18,384 22,574 303,186
Dec., 1903.. 1,166 21,760 22,926 326,112
Capital written down from £1,168,042 to £154,529.
June, 1904.. 2,459 326,112 2,459
Dec., 1904... 2,964 2,964 5,423
June, 1905.. 2,144 2,144 7,567
The accounts issued by this bank for many years were
a grim joke, capital and reserves which had long
since disappeared being kept in the balance-sheet, as
though nothing had happened ; and now the accounts, if
no longer a joke, are something of a puzzle. For many
years the profit made by the bank’s purchase of its own
deposits at a heavy discount was put to reserves, to be
eventually applied to writing down assets. The purchase
is still proceeding, the deposits are still at a heavy dis-
count ; yet no mention is made of profits from this
source. Presumably they are being used to write down
assets without mention of that fact being made. Six
months ago these old deposits totalled £4,369,950 ; now
£4,085,328, a reduction of £284,622. Of this, £254,000 or
thereabouts represented “A” deposits, paid off in one
lump at par, so that the profit from w 7 hat has been the
A. J.S.’s most profitable branch must have latelv been
less than usual. In 1893 the A.J.S. had £8,498,589 of
deposits. Since then, in 11£ years, £4,413,261 has been
paid off by realising securities, the loss on realisations
being made up by writing-down capital and from current
profit and profit on deposits. The bank is thus left with
£4,055,328 of the old trouble to still struggle with ; and
it hasn’t another £1,013,513 of capital available for writing
off and applying tow'ards the deficit on the sale of further
securities. If the remaining assets weren’t, therefore, any
better than those that have been realised, things would
look very blue. But it is pretty certain that, though things
look blue enough, the present assets are a much better
lot than the old ones. In the beginning of 1894, when
the A.J.S. was just getting its breath after the smash,
only one-seventh of its assets were liquid ; now nearly one-
fifth are liquid. The whole assets yield gross £3 19s. 3d.
per cent. ; and though there isn’t much profit in that,
still assets that yield even that much must include
some very fair ones, and the average can’t be so very
shocking. The new busine s is secured by the whole of
the assets, and as profits are applied to writing down
securities, this guarantee becomes gradually stronger.
As to the general business
June, 1904. June, 1905. Increase.
New deposits .. .. £915,461 £1,058,497 £143,036
Old deposits .. .. 4,407,140 4,085,328 321,812
Notes in circulation .. 59,085 55,790 3,295
Bills, &c 128,648 118,395 10,253
Liquid assets . . .. 1,134,845 1,004,502 130,343
Advances .. .. 4,236,804 4,176,106 60,698
Premises .. .. 365,789 365,789
Eighty-two per ceijt. of all new liabilities to the public
are in liquid assets ; and the public can’t want better
security than that. Such a holding partly accounts for
the low earnings—£2 14s. Bd. per cent, per annum on
shareholders’ funds—not enough to hold out much pro-
spect of a dividend.
* * * *
The City Bank of Sydney
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Re-
serves. serves.
Dec., 1898 ..£8053 4 per cent. = £BOOO £53 £109,273
June, 1899 .. 8070 4 „ „ 8000 70 109,343
Dec., 1899 .. 8212 4 „ „ 8000 212 109,555
June, 1900 .. 8041 4 „ „ 8000 41 109,596
Dec., 1900 .. 8223 4 „ „ 8000 223 109,819
June, 1901 .. 8105 4 „ „ SOOO 105 109,924
Dec., 1901 .. 8157 4 „ ~ 8000 157 110,081
June, 1902 .. 8016 4 ~ ~ 8000 16 110,097
Dec., 1902 .. 8108 4 „ ~ 8000 108 110,205
£109,000 Transferred to Contingent Account 1,205
June, 1903 .. 9351 4 per cent. = £BOOO 1351 2,556
Deo., 1903 .. 9052 4 „ „ 8000 1052 3,608
June, 1904 .. 9045 4 „ „ 8000 1045 4,653
Dec., 1904 .. 6158 24 „ „ 5000 1158 5,811
June, 1905 .. 6060 2J ~ „ 5000 1060 . 6,871
This doesn’t look very cheerful. And further comparisons
don’t make it much more so
De-
June, 1904. June, 1905. creases.
Deposits, &c £1,052,103 £1,069,098 £13,005
Advances 1,117,399 1,096,237 21,162
Premises 142,821 142,821
Notes, &c.,in circulation 67,458 67,787 329*
Liquid Assets .. .. 303,134 310,208 7074
But though this bank is not in a position to earn more
than it did 12 months ago, advances having, in fact, de-
creased, it at anyrate isn’t paying interest, asmanyothers
are, on more money which it is unable to use. A decrease
of deposits may not look well for a bank, in view of the
comparative abundance of money, but it has its com-
pensations. Capital is £400,000 ; on that and reserves,
earnings have amounted to only £2 19s. Bd, per cent.,
which is low enough to suggest that it wasn’t only the
reserves which should have been written off a while back.
And it is not because this bank has a vast proportion of
its assets in an unprofitable liquid form that its earnings
are small; liquid assets represent, in fact, only 27? per
cent, of liabilities to the public, which is considerably
below 7 the present average among Australian banks.
There is, however, one feature which should give the
depositor reassurance; as much as 33 p.c. c ° u *u be
written off all assets (other than coin, &c., and State
securities) out of shareholders’capital. Put in another
w 7 av if the reserves and half the shareholders’ capital
were written off, the profits would be equal to £6 Is. 2d.
p.c. on the remaining funds, which is very nearly the
Commercial of Sydney’s return. To equal the retuin of
the Bank of N.S. Wales the reserves would have to be
wiped out and £238,650 of the capital, leaving £161,350
(or, all round, £3 4s. 6d. per £8 share) intact. That, of
course, is on the assumption that in arriving at the profit,
as shown in the very skeletonised published accounts, ade-
quate provision has been made for bad debts^
The Commercial Bank of Australia, from
1901, w'hen the re-valuation was made and a new general
manager took things in hand :
Profits Dividends
(less loss (3 p. e.) Writ- Added
on Assets on Pref. ten to Re- Re-
Trust). Shares. Off. serves. serves.
June ’Ol —— • £16,917
Dec.,’’ol ‘.'.£42,460 £31,758 £10,702 27,619
June,’o2 .. 38,434 31,758 6,676 34,295
Capital Forfeited .. 143,000 1<7,290
Dec., ’O2 .. 39,194 31,759 7,435 184,700
Capital Forfeited .. .. 3,000 157,'30
June, ’O3 .. 37,442 31,759 5,683 193,413
Capital Forfeited .. .. 2,500 J)}0,913
Dec., ’O3 .. 40.63 S 31,759 8,879 204,792
Capital Forfeited .. . 1,500 206,292
June,’o4 .. 38,746 31,759 £15,521 197,758
Dec., ’O4 .. 41,401 31,760 9,701 207,459
June,’os .. 39,470 31,760 5,000 2,710 210,169
This bank, which, after its bad smash, turned the most
hopeless-looking of its business over to an Assets Trust, is
liable for the payment of deposits ip that Trust, amount-
ing to £2,987,841; but the current business has a first
claim on assets. To the clearing-up of the wreckage the
bank applies part of its profits ; total profits before
making this aid and the amount of the aid have been
recently
Aid to Aid to
Profits. Trust. Profits. Trust.
Dec., ’Ol ..£72,460 £30,000 Dec., ’O3. .£69,824 £29,186
June,’o2.. 67,852 29,418 June,’o4.. 67,618 28,872
Dec., ’02.. 68,882 29,688 Dec., ’04.. 70,398 28,937
June,’o3.. 66,773 -29,331 June,’os.. 68,464 28,994
The aid is the net amount of the Trust’s losses for the
term. In the g-eneral matter of the clearing-up of the
wreckage this marks the progress :
Dec., ’Ol. Dec., ’O4. June, ’O5.
Liabilities of Trust .. £3,334,903 £3,008,996 £2,987,841
Assets of Trust .. 1,800,000 1,620,000 1,600,000
Deficit of Trust .. 1,534,903 1,388,996 1,387,841
Less Bank Reserves .. 27,619 207,459 210,169
Net deficit .. .. £1,507,284 £1,151,537 £1,177,672
The value of the Trust’s assets as show 7 n is the estimate
adopted by the present general manager upon taking
charge. Going right back to the bursting of the bloated
concern these are the figures:—
All liabilities, Dec., 1892 .. .. £12,635,066
Less Converted to Pref. Shares .. 2,117,230
Old trouble to be disposed of .. £10,517,836
Already disposed of .. .. .. 7,229,793
Still (June, 1905) to be disposed of.. £3,288,043
That £3,288,043 remaining to be disposed of is represented
as follows: —
Assets of Trust .. .. ..£1,600,000
Bank Reserves .. .. .. 210,169
Special Bank Deposits (“A”) .. 300,202
Net Deficit .. .. .. 1,177,672
Total .. .. £3,288,043
The paid capital, as written down, is now £2,212,631.
The net deficit being £1,177,672, this leaves £1,034,959 of
shareholders’ capital intact, accepting the official esti-
mate of the value of the Trust’s assets. There are 211,735
pref. £lO shares, w 7 hich, if w'ritten down to £5, would re-
present £1,058,675 ; also 190,563 ordinary shares which if
w'ritten down from 10s. to ss. would represent £47,641;
together £1,106,316; so that amount of writing-down
would about represent the real situation.
The Commercial’s business nowadays seems to
be managed with prudence. Twelve months ago the
whole of the furniture item w 7 as wiped out of the balance
sheet, and now £5OOO comes off premises account. It is
always good to see these items reduced ; yet, taking- them
all round, the assets of the new bank seem a very profit-
able lot; for, though 21 per cent, of the assets is repre-
sented by coin and money at short call, yet the gross
earnings on the average assets last half-year w 7 ere £3 14s.
percent, per annum after paying interest on deposits.
Expenses are, how'ever, somewhat high—the bank for-
merly laid itself out to do an enormous business, and did
it, and when it shrank it wasn’t possible to shrink
expenses correspondingly. Still, the business is growing
again ; in 12 months deposits have increased from
£3,190,667 to £3,650,771, or by £460,104, and a satisfac-
tory feature has been the growth also of advances from
£3,644,031 to £3,969,487, or by £325,456, at a time when
most such fig-ures have moved the other way. Profits
after appropriations towards the Trust’s deficiency have
moved thus:—
On Capital. On Total Funds.
Dec., 1902 .. £3 10 10 p.c. ..
June, 1903 .. 3 7 9,, .. £3 2 5 p.c.
Dec., 1903 .. 3 13 0 „ .. 3 7 7 „
June, 1904 .. 3 10 6 „ .. 3 4 0 „
Dec., 1904 .. 3 14 11 „ .. 3 9 1 „
June, 19Q5 .. 3 11 4 „ .. 3 5 2 „
But on the basis of shareholders’ funds estimated to be
intact (£1,034,959) the profits show 7 £7 12s. 7d. per cent. ;
and that is high enough to suggest that the official valua-
tion of the Trust’s assets is within the mark.
* * * *
The Bank of Victoria (Melbourne): —
Dividends.
, * Added
Pref. Ord. to Re- Re.
Profits. 5 p.c. 2£p.c. serves, serves
£>£££>£,
Dec., 1898.. 27,800 10,419 17,381 90,031
June, 1899 .. 27,637 10,419 17,218 107,249
Dec., 1899 .. 27,906 10,419 17.4&7 124,736
June, 1900.. 28,554 10,419 13,266 4,869 129,605
3 p.c.
Dec., 1900.. 30,178 10,419 15,919 3,840 133,445
June, 1901 .. 31,399 10,419 15,919 5,061 135,506
Dee., 1901 .. 33,136 10,419 15,919 6,798 145,304
3J p.c.
June, 1902 .. 33,323 10,419 18,572 4,332 149,636
Dec., 1902 .. 33,715 10,419 18,572 4,724 154,360
June, 1903 .. 29,440 10,419 18,572 449 154,809
Dec., 1903 .. 34,354 10,419 18,572 5,363 160,172
June, 1904 .. 34,555 10,419 18,572 5,564 165,736
Dec., 1904.. 34,583 10,419 18,572 5,592 171,328
4 p.c.
June, 1905.. 34,260 10,419 21,225 2,616 173,944
Seeing that the reserve fund amounts to less than one-
eighth of the paid capital, and that the sum now 7 required
to pay the dividend absorbs 93 per cent, of the whole pro-
fits, allowing a lay-by of only 7 per cent., and that nothing
whatever has at any time been written off the cost of bank
premises, the increase of the div. on ordinary shares to 4
p.c. seems, to say the very least, premature. If there
were any marked upward movement in profits, from
w hich it might reasonably be expected that much larger
additions to reserves would be made in the future, the
increase of div. might have some excuse ; but looking at
the figures as they stand, it is very hard, if not im-
possible, to justify it. The business is, no doubt,
profitable; but still the assets, taking them altogether,
are not of such a character as to do away with
the need to write down premises, for instance. On
the average bulk of assets, the gross earnings last half-
year were at the rate of £2 os. sd. per cent, after paying
interest; and that is not so high as to make it superfluous
to write off something for depreciation of premises, which
are taken in at cost (£254,245). It would be a better use
to which to put any surplus than rushing to increase the
dividend with it. On capital (£1,478,010) and reserves,
net profits per cent, per annum have lately moved in this
way
£sd £sd £sd
June,’ol..3 17 11 Dec., ’02..4 2 10 June,’o4..4 4 4
Dec., ’Ol.. 4 2 0 June,’o3. .3 12 2 Dec., ’04..4 4 2
June,’o2. .4 2 1 Dec., ’O3. .4 4 2 June,’os. .4 3 1
And so far as the figures show it, there is no immediate
prospect of much improvement. Compare the position
with that of 12 months back :
June, 1904. June, 1905. Increases.
Notes in Circulation .. £104,914 £108,610 £3,696
Deposits .. .. 4,427,561 4,963,565 536,004
Advances .. .. 4,839,620 4,989,486 149,866
Liquid Assets .. .. 1,375,773 1,762,698 386,925
Real Estate .. .. 417,494 424,956 7,462
Bills in Circulation, &c. 431,724 425,418 6,306
In mostly non-productive coin, bullion, and balances
there has been an accumulation of £444,716 : the interest-
bearing deposits have increased by £448,431. This
means much more money going out for interest, and very
little extra is coming in to pay it with. No doubt the
reduction of deposit rates will help the situation ; but
deposit rates having fallen, advance and other accommo-
dation rates are not likely to be fully maintained. The
bank’s position is strong ; 32 per cent.' of all liabilities to
the public are represented by liquid assets ; and from the
depositors’ point of view the position is further strength-
ened by the large proportion of the shareholders’ funds in
the business.
* *. » *
The Royal Bank of Queensland
Dividend Added
and Written to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, ’99 7830 2J p.c. = 5075 2755 45,329
(£1463 capital forfeited and written off)
Dec., ’99 8322 24 ~ „ 5056 3266 48,595
June, ’OO 8384 24 ~ „ 5056 3500 48,423
Dec., ’OO 8434 24 ~ „ 5056 3378 51,801
June, ’Ol 8657 2J „ „ 5056 3601 55,402
Dec., ’Ol 8758) 76080 3000 55,080
June, ’O2 9024 Ord. 3 „ „ 6700 2324 57,404
Dec., ’O2 8646 V & 7223 1423 58,827
June. ’O3 9052 Pref. 34 „ ~ 7227 1825 60,652
Dec., ’O3 9455) 47:.27 2228 62,880
June, ’O4 9182 34 „ „ 8422 760 63,640
Dec., ’O4 9569 34 „ „ 8427 1142 64,782
June, ’O5 9673 34 „ „ 8463 1210 65,992
The dividend absorbs 87 per cent, of the profit, leaving
0n1y 7 13 per cent, for reserves, and that lay-by is not large
enough—which means that the dividend should not
recently have been increased. Still in this matter the
bank’s position is rather different from that of most
banks, since its own funds in the business are unusually
heavy. No less than 48 per cent, of all non-liquid assets
(advances, premises, &c.) are represented by share-
holders’ funds ; in other words, those assets could slump
48 per cent, below the value at which they stand in the
books before depositors would be touched. And of all
liabilities to the public 35 per cent, are in liquid assets.
From the depositors’ point of view, the position is thus
exceptionally strong. With so little of the public’s
money to work with, and with so much even of what
there is earning little or nothing-, profits per cent, of
shareholders’ funds continue small: —
June,’ol .. £3 19 3 Dec., ’O3 .. £3 13 0
Dec., ’Ol .. 3 19 6 June,’o4 .. 3 10 7
June,’o2 .. 3 17 0 Dec., ’O4 .. 3 13 5
Dec., ’O2 .. 3 8 10 June,’os .. 3 14 1
June, ’O3 .. 3 10 2
It is not possible to trace much improvement, or sign of
it. Gross earnings (after paying interest) are certainly a
bit better than they were ; total assets show £2 14s. Id.
percent, now against £2 10s. lid. in 1900 and £2 12s. in
1895, which should mean that the business is at least as
sound as, if not rather sounder than, it has been any time
in the past 10 years. On these figures, too, there should
be a shade better profits
June,’o4. June,’os. Increase.
Deposits £805,538 £868,534 £62,996
Bills, &c., in circulation .. 38,944 49,679 9,735
Advances 986,257 1,064,625 78,368
Decrease.
Liquid assets .. .. .. 325,138 323,334 1,804
Premises, &c... .. .. 62,614 62,247 367
The advances have increased rather more than deposits,
and earnings should therefore look up; but, then,
Queensland banks are still paying a high rate for deposits ;
and, with their recently enlarged resources, keener com-
petition has set in among Australian banks generally for
business ; so the outlook for better profits is not bright,
after all. The institution looks as though it deserved
public confidence ; but public confidence (which means
deposits) won’t be so very much good to it unless there is
more confidence in Queensland, and until a tariff restored
to something like the old Queensland State level, or even
higher, sets up a keener demand for money to help on
industrial enterprises.
* * * •
B.H. Junction drill-prospecting has made a very
good start; a patch of good ore has been struck at 775 ft.
level, towards the British boundary. But the mine has
been worked to such a complete standstill that several
such strikes must be made before it can be regarded again
as a workable proposition. Mine is almost certain to bob
up again serenely some day, and show a big profit on
present low price of scrip, though it isn’t as low now as it
was when it was mentioned here a fortnight or so ago as
the cheapest thing on the Barrier. Holders will need
patience before they get anything in the shape of divs.
* * * r-
On thinking the matter over the Broken Hill
Prop, people have changed their plans, and will put up
the first zinc-smelter near the lead furnaces at Port Pirie
(S.A.) instead of alongside the coal in N.S.W. Costs pan
out about the same, and as the chief metallurgical staff is
at Pirie, that fact turned the scale.
* * * *
Published statement that the 12,000 nnabsorbed
shares in the new 7 issue of 51,200 shares in Mt. Dr.vsdale
(N.S.W.) have been taken in one lump by H. B. Coles is
not correct. Coles, it is said, takes up 6000, and a local
syndicate the balance. Matters aren’t quite so clear as
they, might be as to whether Coles, who has gone to Eng-
land with some sort of an option, pays his own expenses,
or whether the 6000 ninepences which the syndicate now
puts up are to be devoted that way. So far as can be
gathered, monthly calling power of 3d. a share in new
issue isn’t likely to be rigorously enforced while Coles is
away. But there isn’t anything in Coles’ agreement to
prevent the bagging of the Drysdale’s alleged rich ore.
* * # *
Burra, now Mt. Boppy copper mine, four miles
south of Boppy (N.S.W.), and on the western slope of
the same granite belt, again moves in the hands of
Connelly and Elliott. Old shaft (200 ft.), waterlogged for
years, has been baled, and shows a strong vein of
sulphides at the bottom. Upper levels, which have only
been scratched, also look like a profitable business ; but
rich ores are bunchy and patchy. Probability is there’s
something in the Burra not yet located ; and drives 100 ft.
north and south may throw some light on the matter.
* * * *
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), is opening up
rather better than expected. At No. 3 level north, reef
petered out at 175 ft., but made again at 192 ft. It is
worth 32dwt. for 15in. wide, and is still showing in the
end. North drive at 40ft. level from new prospecting-
shaft followed the reef for 70ft., worth 2oz. for 15in. wide.
At this point a winze was put down 7ft. and proved reef
to be stronger and worth 7oz. Cyanide and slimes plants
are going up, and should come into use next month,
when profits will be materially increased, as about 800 oz.
monthly are being left in the residues.
* * • *
Kalgurli (W.A.) is getting its additional treat-
ment plant going. In May co. treated 5400 tons worth
60s. Bd. per ton for a profit of £BBOO, while in June 6200
tons worth 61s. 3d. realised a profit of £11,700. Full
plant is expected to be in working order by end of July,
and, in August, 8500 tons should-be treated for a profit of
£15,000. To date profits of £15,000 only have been
distributed quarterly. When increased plant gets to
work and cost of extensions ceases divs. can easily be
doubled.
* » * *
Perseverance shows the highest costs of any of
the big Kalgoorlie mines. Co. treated during 1904
151,900 tons at cost of 465. sd. per ton, which includes
nothing for depreciation. Chief item is treatment,
255. 3d. a ton, which is more than total local costs of
Fingall, Gwalia and Cosmopolitan. For two years running
no depreciation has been allowed, an extra large amount
having been written off previously, but a plant that
can’t treat ore at under 255. 3d. should have been on the
scrap heap long ago. Gwalia’s treatment costs are
exactly 20s. a ton less, and that means £151,900 more
profit on last year’s output. This gives some idea of what
a white elephant Perseverance plant is. Manager Klug
has, however, materially reduced costs already.
Victory United, Cuddingwara (W.A.), con-
tinues to waste money in sending directors, who know
little of mining, to inspect the show. Latest arrival is
C. A. Ring, who says mine is too uncertain to be relied on.
As a matter of fact, mine has been a sink since 1899, and
is no more promising after six years of prospecting. It is
now 7 said that the famous cable of May 22, giving assays
of 26dwt., was a hoax, sent to take in telegraph operators,
w 7 ho, it is alleged, w 7 ere giving prior information to
brokers. Said cable is reported to have been kept back
tw'o hours while 30,000 shares were bought. That day
real result of 2dwt. W'as cabled, and naturally there was a
scramble to get out. This sort of hoax may mislead inno-
cent as well as guilty, and is therefore hardly the thing.
But, anyhow, Victory United is a very lame duck, and
may safely be left to gamblers.
* * * *
Prospectors and others are requested to forward
samples of Asbestos and full particulars to Herbert
Soanes, the only Asbestos Specialist in Australasia.
Reports made and sales negotiated. Address: Herbert
Soanes, Asbestos Specialist, Box 202, P. 0., Perth, W.A.*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Alining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wadeandCo., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*
* * * *
The Commercial World (London) July 15,
1904, writes of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited “ That the Society under existing
conditions did exceedingly well will be most apparent to
those in the closest touch with the trend of affairs in the
year under review.*
* * * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary Block 14 Co. has
finally closed its extensive smelting and ore-reduction
works at Port Adelaide, and has placed the whole of the
machinery and plant in the hands of Messrs. Butterworth
Handcock and Co., Port Adelaide, for private sale. The
list covers engines, boilers, steam-pumps, lifts, elevators,
crusher, brick-making machines, weigh-bridges, ore
scales, iron chimneys, shafting, pulleys, piping, and a lot
of sundries. A post card to that firm will ensure an
extended catalogue by return of post.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
E laced an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
oilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
* * * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange) for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
The Wilfley Slime Table which has been in
operation on the Ivanhoe Gold Mines for some months
past has been giving extremely good results. Mr. H. T
Brett, Metallurgist of the Ivanhoe Gold Corporation, in an
article contributed to the March number of the Chamber
of Mines Journal, W.A., gives particulars of the savings
made, and states that the introduction of the Wilfley
Slime Table will be of great service in treating the low-
grade sulphide ores of the field. Since the future of
Kalgoorlie is so intimately bound up with the most
economical solution of this sulphide problem, this
assurance from Mr. Brett is a most important matter.
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne, are
sole manufacturers for Australasia of this table.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
■* * ■* *
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more—alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 2500h.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
are also putting down “ Hornsby ” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and SpeMcer-street, Melbourne.*
■*#■*•*
Assay Balance, Ainsworth’s No. 1 special, 5 inch
beam, agate knife edges and bearings etc., sensibility
l/200th = 0.005 milligramme = l/13000th grain. Price £5O.
Large stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. H. B. SILBERBERG and Co., 443
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * # *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manaaer.*
* * • •
Brown Hill Extended, Kalgoorlie, instead of
utilising shaft on recently-bought Kalgoorli Prop, leases,
has started sinking new main shaft to prospect east lode.
As shaft has to go down 800 ft., it will be 12 months, at
the earliest, before any opening up can be done. Under
the circumstances scrip is not likely to have a very active
market. Some rich ore has recently been opened up in
extension of Brown Hill shoot, but whether it will be
rooted out and treated has not yet been decided. Co. has
about £40,000 in liquid assets, so can carry on for a long
time without appealing to shareholders.
(Continued on puge 30).


ffISM
fflfi
GIVE SOME THOUGHT
TO YOUR WARDROBE.
For you are judged by the clothes you
wear. We make a special study of our
Ready-to-Wear Clothes, and devote time
and attention to the making and materials
we put into them.
It is an additional advantage for you to
buy just now, for our Sale is on until the
end of the month, and these Suits can be
bought in Tweed and Serge from 27/6 to 45/-,
according to the weight of material used.
Sent, Carriage Paid, to your nearest P.O.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
To J2*LAMATEUR photography
MAKE YOUR PRINTS on
EH PI RE
PAPER.
Sold in Packets of Popular Sizes at Popular Prices.
SIMPLICITY ECONOMY QUALITY RAPIDITY.
Prints made in Cas or Lamplight in any Quantity in Full View ef your Friends.
NO DARK ROOM REQUIRED. Full Simple Instructions in every Packet.
Principal Distributors—
HARRINGTON
AND CO„
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS
386 George Street, Sydney, # 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
And all Leading Dealers throughout Australasia.
Society
STILL QUITE FIT.
MRS. OFFSTEIN: “ Barney, you grow unfit for
beezness. You vos so shord-sighded you fail
to see dot dis piece of stuff vot you take for
silk vos half cotton.”
MR. OFFSTEIN: “No, Rachel, I vos so shord-
sighded I failed to see dot der piece of stuff
vot I took for cotton vos half silk.”
“Homo”: The Victorian police were re-
cently instructed to ignore persons who address
them by their Christian names while on duty, and
they seem to be making strenuous efforts to carry
out the order. I know of a man who addressed
« constable by his Christian name of John, the
other day, and the officer chased him half-a-miie
through streets, lanes, shops, alleys, and back-
yards in his anxiety to ignore him.
The Brisbane press goes in greatly for a
cheap object it calls the literary “ cadet.” He is
a sort of boy-reporter, who isn't exactly a boy
and doesn’t exactly report—he rather slings things
together and turns the sub-editor’s head a pale
grey. The cadets were in great form over
Warton’s execution. The Telegraph young man
called the hang-gentleman the “dreaded myrmi-
don of the law,” which was just about as original
as the “devouring element.” The Observer
man said the hangman showed the prisoner where
to stand. The Telegraph said the prisoner rushed
eagerly up to the scaffold, and was directed by
the gaol warder. It also said he walked with an
“elastic step.” The Mail violently contradicted
this, and said he walked with difficulty. The
Observer and the Telegraph said that Warton’s
hands were pinioned behind his back when he first
appeared, while the Mail said that, when on the
gallows, he held out his hands for the straps. The
three papers also gave three different accounts of
the “last words,” but they agreed pretty well
about the fact that the deceased was quite dead
after he had been killed. But, after all, the ideal
hanging report has yet to be written—the report
that will be light and original without being
frivolous ; and will state that the deceased re-
bounded into Abraham’s bosom, and yet not offend
the susceptibilities of the deeply religious section
of the community.
* * * *
There is just now trouble brewing in the
Victorian Labor ranks. The rupture began
through G. Roberts, ex-M.L.A., declining to sign
the Trades Hall balance-sheet as auditor unless a
sum of £l3 was accounted for or made good. This
was done —and Roberts was relieved of his
auditorsliip. Later, Roberts took up charges made
by Lauder, ex-editor of the Tocsin, now in ’Frisco.
These were three—(l) of sweating in the Tocsin
office by the over-employment of boys in place of
men ; (2) of subletting a printing contract to a non-
union office ; (3) of malversation of Labor trust
funds by certain prominent individuals. Roberts
handed to the Trades Hall Council Lauder’s state-
ment, and invited inquiry. The council appointed
a committee, which inquired into the matter (but
not, according to Roberts, fully and fairly), and
reported the charges as being malicious and un-
founded ; whereupon Roberts was expelled from
the council. Now Roberts demands independent
audit of the Eight-Hours’, Trades Hall, and Rail-
way Strike accounts. And that ought certainly
to be granted—no matter what the standing or
the motives of Roberts. If there has been dis-
honesty, it should be fully exposed. If all is
right, the imputations now being made should be
wiped away by an independent inquiry.
» * * »
At Broken Hill last week a ‘ ‘ turf adviser ”
was sentenced to a month’s imprisonment without
the option for having advertised that he would
tip the winner on receipt of ss. Yet the law
permits anyone to sell a tip for the cure of, say,
cancer.
* » * *
The Hebrew and the Scotchman are not
so dusty when you consider the Hindu and his
idea of the value of sexpen. One
of him, a casteless Bengali, en-
tered a sixpenny eating-house in
Sydney recently. There was a
three-course Dill : soup, meat,
sweets. Ranji started on a plate
of cut bread and wolfed it be-
fore his order was taken. Seizing
a loaf from the next table, he
broke it small in his hands and
finished it. He sent back his
plate for an encore of soup, and
attacked his meat like a bush-
fire. When he asked for sweets,
the waitress told him sweets
were “off.” She offered him
some cheese instead. Ranji stood
up, shaking in his Bengal wrath.
“No sweets! By crees, what
fraud do I uphold ? Where ees
the bass? ”he shouted. The boss
admitted that sweets were off,
but protested that Ranji had
eaten 3d. worth of bread. The
Hindu slammed 3d. on the
table. “I go now to bring
pelice !” he shouted. “ They
will look into the fraud. I
go now to consult the law.”
Just as he was bouncing off
the step to get a handful of
law, Mary Kelly played three
quarts of boiled cabbage-water on
to his turbaned wicket. The writer
fled. He can stand the odor of Hindu, but not
with cabbage trimmings.
* # * *
Nearly everybody who owns a hack in the
“ select circles ” of Perth (W.A.) goes a-hunting
twice a week. The daily papers gush over the
“runs,” and carefully catalogue all who follow
“ the hounds.” There is a master, deputy-master,
whips, horn-sounders, and all the frill of a fashion-
able meet in a swagger hunting county. As a
matter of fact, the hounds are the remnant of a
pack of beagles imported by an English Johnnie
when Ooolgardie was booming 12 years ago, while
the quarry is the wretched little scrub wallaby,
as tame and no larger than the ordinary domestic
cat. Two of the ladies turned up recently in
bifurcated skirts and sat their horses like men,
much to the joy of a crowd assembled to see the
circus start. .
DIVORCE ITEM.
“ His wife said in her evidence that he was a
two-faced deceiver .”
“ Well, if he’s got another face, what’s he wearing
that one for ?”
There is likely to be trouble in Bananaland
Parliament shortly respecting affairs at the Dun-
wich Asylum. There are upwards of 1000 old
people there, many suffering from incurable
diseases such as consumption, cancer, chronic
rheumatism, and Bright’s disease. There is not
one nurse to look after the comforts of these un-
fortunates. The institution’s doctor, in his annual
report, has pointed out for years that nurses are
essential, to enable the inmates who are sick to be
given proper treatment. But no reform has been
attempted. Another point raised by the doctor
is that necessary measures to prevent the spread
of disease cannot be undertaken, owing to the
absence of a trained staff. When the Old Age
Pensions Commission sat in Brisbane recently,
the one man able to give exact evidence regarding
the aged sick poor (Dr. Stockwell) was not called,
the cross-examination falling upon an officer of
the Home department, who was careful not to
cross the danger line.
* * * *
There is at least one simple-minded
Gentleman One in Victoria. Being lately sued
for the return of £5 said to have been paid to
secure a divorce, he offered £2, without prejudice,
on condition that the magistrate made an order
prohibiting the reporting of the case. The Bench
refused—and, of course, every paper carefully
published the name of Gentleman One and full
details.
“ Mars,” from Victoria ■
Victorian schools are in a bad way ; and
it is about up to T. Bent to effect an ini-
provement by the pre-
sent Teachers Bill. On
the last day of the ses-
sion of 1901 A. Pea-
cock’s Government
passed an Education
Bill abolishing pay-
ment by results, but
shelved a companion
Bill fixing teachers’
salaries. Now the De-
partment has to go on
in a half - and - half
fashion, teachers being
paid by “ re-
sults,"although
“ results ” are
abolished. That
is one mudhole
the Department
is in. Here’s
another:—
In ’93, a so-
called Re-
trenchment Bill
regraded V i c.
schools, arid
made seven
classes instead
of five, but the
classification of
teachers in
charge was not
altered, so the
Act left a large
surplus ot
teachers in ex-
cess of their
positions high-
class teachers in
charge of low-class
schools. New-
comers in the ser-
vice filled up the
VI. and VII. schools
not already filled
by V.-class teach-
ers, but those that
reached VI. class
rose to the sum-
mit of their profes-
sion so far as pro-
motion was con-
cerned, for they
must stay there (the
highest possible salary
is £105) until the over-
plus of V. class is reduced.
By present methods, this will
take centuries, and the only
hope of the VI. and VII. men
is a Japanese invasion and a general slaughter of Y. men
by the enemy.
It speaks volumes for these men and the rank-and-file,
who are going mentally to sleep in the backblocks, that
they have any vigor left in them, much less the energy to
tackle the Director’s new programme, and the work of
about 60 class lessons per day, unassisted.
* • • •
“E.F.” on £h e subject of Shining
Lights:—
A former pillar of the “ Church of Christ ” came before
Prahran (Melb.) police-court the other week, on a charge
of “ unseemly interruptions ” in the place where he used
to pray. Defendant and others were formally expelled
from the Church of Christ because they wouldn’t
renounce their claim to pour forth their gladness in
“ incoherent utterances ” whenever the spirit moved ’em
to take the floor.
They had joined the blessed Church for talking pur-
poses, and when the other brethren desired them, as a
personal favor, not to pray and preach, but to sit and
listen to the beautiful words of more inspired orators,
they formed themselves into an opposition party. Hence
the police-court revelation.
In this enlightened age, when every earnest pietist can
buy a New Testament for 9d., it is impossible to surmise
how a Church came to be founded on the notion that all
its members are entitled to play “ lead ”, turn and turn
about. The blessed Worrd, which these voluble Kerris-
tians are always talking about, offers little or no evidence
in favor of “self-chosen speakers.” Even the Early
Christians in Wilson Barrett’s play are content to leave
all the talking to the oldest snufflebuster with the
longest beard. Truly, the ordinary greengrocer (the
defendant in this case was a produce merchant)
who goes to church for salvation, must learn
to possess his soul in silence whilst his appointed
brother tells him what a miserable sinner he is.
There can be no just cause or reason in a church where
everybody accuses all the other people of miserable
sinning. There must be Lights to lighten the darkness,
and when a produce merchant, in spite of crushing evi-
dence to the contrary, sets up his own bit of darkness for
a shining Light, nothing remains for the congregation but
to put him out.
* * * *
A step is being taken towards the estab-
lishment of a Greater Sydney by the annexation
to the city of the bankrupt suburb of Camper-
down. Camperdown is broke; it has the bailiffs
in ; the rates are practically all annexed by its
creditors; and the streets are going back to the
bush once more—or, rather, the bush is coming to
Camperdown. The proposed terms are that the
city, when it annexes Camperdown, shall get the
loans of the insolvent suburb renewed on easier
terms, put its streets in repair, eject the bailiff,
reduce the cost of administration, and then raise
enough rates to enable it to pay its way. Also it
is proposed that Camperdown should be subjected
to a new by-law under which its narrow alleys are
to be gradually widened to a decent 66ft. This
last condition raised a bitter fight, and opposition
is not yet over. The Camperdown aldermen
didn’t know that they were to be cleaned and
washed as well as relieved of the bailiff, and a
desperate desire not to be washed fills their souls.
* * # *
The lawyer defending a Victorian butcher,
charged under the Factories Act with paying
an employee less than the proper wage, did
his client very little good by proving that the
man in question, who was employed at cutting up,
suffered so badly from lung complaint, and coughed
so dreadfully on to the meat, that he really wasn’t
worth any more than he was getting. Some law-
yers are too enthusiastic in the effort to do justice
to their six-and-eightpence.
MEMORIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just a link of golden stars,
Chained across the dark.
Just a glimpse of gleaming bars,
In the moonlight stark.
Just a song from off the shore,
Paint and distance-sweet.
Just a word sung o’er and o’er,
As the twin tides meet.
Memories, sweet memories, of the bay and brine.
Memories—ah—memories 1 These, at least, are mine.
Just a valley warm with sun,
Where the blue gums grow.
J ust a summer-time begun
In September’s glow.
Just a land of flowers a-sway,
As the sunset nears.
Just one perfect, heavenly day
Stolen from the years.
Memories, faint memories. Plowering, fragrant ways.
Memories, old memories, of September days.
Just the early moonlight still
On the paddocks brown —
We alone upon the hill,
As the stars die down.
Just a longing, almost pain,
As the new years rise,
Just to see your face again
And your haunting eyes.
Memories, soft memories, of a face so sweet,
Memories, dead memories. We shall never meet.
Just a throbbing violin,
And a shoulder white.
Just the first sweet fruits of sin
Ere the bitter blight.
Just an ecstasy sublime
Of a love forbid.
Just a moment filched from time
And a passion hid.
Memories, these memories, fain would I forget ;
Memories, dull memories, and a long regret.
N.S.W.
CARO.
THE BREECHES BRAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a ball given the other day in Kensington Palace, and
- attended by King Edward and every other member of the
Royal family in the British Isles, all the gentlemen wore
evening dress and knee-breeches, thus giving a fillip to a
new fashion that is much favored by the King. . . . Since
the Revolution the democratisatioi) of male costume has
gone steadily on, till now it is practically impossible to
distinguish, by bis raiment alone, the prince from the
waiter. Can it be that this introduction of knee-breeches
is but one more symptom of that “ reaction ” of which
Mr. John Morley has recently been speaking in the pages
of the Nineteenth Century ? Is it possible that the aspira-
tion to return to a more picturesque form of dress is really
an expression of the protest against the monotonous dead-
level of democracy.— Melbourne Argus.
The unknown state of persons great is little short of
shocking,
And still will last until high caste is shown by silken
stocking;
The mob may laugh at s ows of calf, but calves define the
borders
Between the trousered rabble and the knee-breeched
higher orders.
Although we hear the vulgar jeer at leg shows of the lank,
And likewise of the corpulent, still should we show our
rank ;
Though knickers tight annoy a knight whose front is out
of drawing,
His dignity abdominal may help the mob in awing.
O’FIPP.


HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
QUALITY and AGE.
BRANDY
EDUCATION BY MAIL.
INDIVIDUAL Instruction by Post in Shorthand,
Bookkeeping, Penmanship, Business Arithmetic,
English Grammar, Composition, Etc., Applied
Mechanics, Electrical, Mechanical and Civil En-
gineering, Architecture and Building Construction,
Mechanical, Architectural & Freehand Drawing,
Etc. Preparation for All Public Examinations.
“HOME STUDY” Post Free. STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College, Moore Street, Sydney. [5
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Atistralia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128-130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing- saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
king street,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough.attention
James Edwards, described as the “Wa-
ranga (Vie.) ‘murderer’,” and damned as an
“ atrocious criminal ” by 100 newspapers, has been
acquitted on the murder charge and convicted of
manslaughter only. What a waste of bloodthirsti-
ness' is here revealed !
* * * »
The Press, the Public and the Police of
Melbourne have received a compliment that they
ought to have no trouble in digesting. James
Edwards, convicted of the manslaughter of
Skinner at Waranga, has, through his solici-
tor, written a letter to the Sheriff, asking
him to officially thank the three P’s for “the
kindness, courtesy and consideration ” with which
he had been treated from the time of his arrest.
(He got no consideration before his arrest.) The
unfortunate Skinner, the top of whose skull, with
a large hole in it, was one of the exhibits at
Edwards’ trial, did not understand how to treat
Edwards. Skinner seems to have tried urging
him with a shovel, by which he was, apparently,
impenetrable. “Kindness, courtesy and con-
sideration” were the things that Edwards re-
quired, and if Skinner had realised that he might
now be less dead than he is.
* * * *
The saving of the neck of Edwards was a
triumph for barrister Maxwell. The Crown’s
case against the prisoner was a purely circumstan-
tial one. After it had been given, Maxwell, with a
fine dramatic instinct, put Edwards into the box,
and there on oath he told the whole story of the
killing. Edwards’ hands were clenching and
twitching, there was a ghastly pallor on his face,
his voice was gone to a low whisper, inter-
rupted every few minutes by loud, sobbing breaths
as he fought for self-control. The hush of the
court; the strained attention needed to catch
what Edwards was saying; and Maxwell’s soft,
broad Scotch leading the witness here
and there with a well-put question, tied
the jury up in knots. Seldom have 12 jury-
men been so affected. They didn’t actually weep,
but some of them were very near it; while in the
body of the court people blubbered out aloud. The
Crown Prosecutor seemed swept off his feet, and
he never recovered. His final speech was in the
prisoner’s favor rather than against him. Hardly
a jury in the world, after such a display as
Edwards put up, would have sent him to the
scaffold.
* * * V
The sand catastrophe at Moore Park last
week, in which the daughter of Mr. Burgess,
M.L.A., and a young female companion lost their
lives, is not the first of its kind in the neighbor-
hood of Sydney. Some ten years ago a couple of
sweethearts left Waterloo for a stroll and never
returned. It was thought they had eloped.
Many weeks after, however, a sand carter came
across their remains in a sandhill. They had sat
down to say sweet nothings under the lee of the
hill, and it slid down and buried them.
A SILENT SUCCESS.
HARDEN HEAVY : “ I flatter myself my part is
the success of the piece.”
SOUBRETTE : “ Why, Harden, you have nothing
to do and nothing to say.”
HARDEB HEAVY : “ My dear girl, an actor of my
physique has no need of adventitious aids. ”
WORP9BW
S? M39Q®FSV
For almost the first time on record there
appears to be a chance of the N.S.W. Law Depart-
ment prosecuting the female who invents a charge
of criminal assault against a man, either to serve
her own ends or for mere amusement. Still there
is no certainty about the matter as yet, and that
kind of female has been allowed to go absolutely
free in so many scores of cases that it would be an
amazing departure from precedent if anything
happened to her.
Art—half-crown art—is to rage in many
colors through the Victorian State schools. The
Education Minister (Sachse) intends to secure
“colored plates of famous pictures,” and allow
parents and friends to buy them for the schools at
2s. 6d. each. What sort of artistic taste will be
developed in the nation that from childhood feasts
its eyes on half-crown chromos ?
Irish writer Edmund Downey spoils a
carefully-faked “ Australian” magazine yarn by
remarking that the heroine, in crossing a road in
a Melbourne suburb, “stopped and handed some-
thing out of her purse to a crossing-sweeper.” The
mere suggestion that Melbourne depends on the
charity brand of road-sweeper common in the
Cold Country is enough to make all corporation
members snort bitterly.
# * * *
A writer in the English Contemporary
throws some sort of a sidelight on the everlasting
birthrate business.' He makes a census of
the homes of the British peers who have’
married American pork-packers’ girls, and
finds an appalling number of empty cradles.
Since 1840 thirty lords and dukes and such
have married Americans; 13 have found a
cradle a superfluity, five have no son, five
more have only one son. The whole 30
couples only muster 39 children among them.
Forty-four more of the pork-packers’ girls
have married courtesy titles or baronets, and
17 of them haven’t had the expense of a
christening. Apparently with the object of
showing that the dear old nobility isn’t to
blame altogether, he mentions that 23 others
of them have married into “ the colonies,”
and they have 63 children, while 30
baronets with colonial wives have a total
brood of 102. There are two ways of
looking at the figures. One is that the
pork-packer’s girl reckons she has done
her complete duty to the old nobility
when she has taken its coronet out
of pawn and provided it with pocket-
money. The other is that the old
nobility which gets its coronet in
pawn is mostly a very much played-
out nobility. It’s really a question
of which side of the Atlantic
ought to bear the blame.
It transpired in N.S. W. Par-
liament the other night that
Anglican Bishops appointed to
Australian sees begin their pull
on the Australian purse from
the date of their appointment
in England, not from the day
when they begin to honestly shove
the barrow in the vineyard in Australia.
At least, Minister Hogue informed mem-
bers that Bishop Barry drew £3300 and Piimate
Smith £2672 from Sydney before they even touched
Australia.
* * * *
A Sydney medical man lately ordered a
family of five out of a suburban toy cottage. It
had but three rooms—mere matchboxes in size.
One was devoted to cooking and eating, and
another to sleeping. The family was in bad health,
overcrowding and poor ventilation being the
causes. Yet the third room was kept as a parlor,
with piano and woolwork fripperies, for the enter-
tainment of an “at home ” once a week. It was
rigidly locked up except when so used.
N.S.W. found a leper last ■week in the
simplest way possible. An intimation had been
sent down to Little Bay that a diseased Chinaman
was to be forwarded by a certain train.,
and the authorities were to be on hand to receive
him and give a receipt. For some reason he
wasn’t sent by that train, and for some other
reason the change of plans wasn’t notified, so the
ambulance was on hand at the psychological
moment, and when the train came in the atten-
dant annexed a likely-looking Chinaman and
rushed him to the proper receptacle. He was a
leper sure enough, but he wasn’t the one ex-
pected ; in fact, he was just a casual, or extra, or
supernumerary leper. It creates a kind of shud-
dery feeling when the authorities can fish for
lepers in this off-hand fashion at a railway station
and get a bite the first time a train comes in.
* * * *
President Roosevelt is reported to have
given an Australian interviewer the strikingly
original hint that this country “must either let
the world enter its gates or else keep its cradles
full.” This sets one looking at the United States’
cradle. The U.S. is so amazingly backward in
some things that it doesn’t even keep a record of
births and deaths for the whole country, but out
of its 40 principal cities there are only six which
have more births in proportion to population than
Sydney has; only three have so small a death-
rate ; only one can compare with Sydney in its in-
crease by excess of births over deaths ; and no less
than 12 out of the 40 (Baltimore, San Francisco,
Cincinnati, Detroit, Washington, Toledo, Alleg-
hany, Syracuse, St. Joseph, Los Angeles, Scran-
ton, and Albany) are in the appalling situation of
having more deaths than births. San Francisco
has, roughly, three deaths to two births ; Detroit,
five deaths to three births ; Washington about the
same; while Toledo, Alleghany and Scranton
have a good average of ten deaths to six births.
Either Uncle Sam’s statistics are mad or he might
almost as well sell his cradle to keep the wooden
ham in.
* * * *
Waterloo, one of Sydney’s pocket-handker-
chief boroughs, is in a mess. In 1882 the council
borrowed £4OOO, and built a town hall with the
money. At a recent meeting the council was
staggered with a letter asking when the borough
proposed to buy the land the hall stands on, and
how much it was prepared to give for it. It ap-
peared that the site was leasehold, the property of
an absentee landlord, and the town hall, loan money
and all, will soon fall in with the lease. The
Waterloo council really fancied it had a freehold.
With a Greater Sydney, and one town hall instead
of 40, there would be at least 39 less chances of
foolishness like this.
# # * ft
“Hamer ” : Was in a high-class restaurant
t’other day when the man sitting opposite me
made a discovery. From the excited way he went
on it might have been a gold-mine, but it was only
a hairpin boiled in with his pudding. He waved
the waitress towards him, and pointed with indig-
nation to his find. But that girl was a jewel, and
simply annihilated him. After exclaiming on his
good fortune, she explained that, usually, money
was put in the puddings, but as the stock had run
out, they were trying hairpins instead, and begged
him not to speak loudly about it lest the other cus-
tomers should hear and become jealous. He took
it in a dazed way at first, and then started to eat
in a subdued fashion. But he didn’t eat the hair-
pin, and he didn’t carry it away in his pocket.
THE PROOF OF SUCCESS.
SHE : “ Is anything wrong with my dress , dear? ”
HE: “ Why? Did those women turn and stare
at you? ”
SHE : “Ho, that's just it. They didn't .”
Fragments of a slaughtered person,
Strewn upon the sands of time,
Teach us not to breathe a curse on
One suspected of the crime.
When our shriek of horror ceases
Let the fact be not denied
That a body ch opped to pieces
Cannot tell us how it died.
LITTLE GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So at last you’ve come to town
In your brand new tailor gown,
And your plait a golden crown,
Little girl !
With your purse and parasol,
With your gloves and spotted fall,
You are not yourself at all,
Little Girl!
As you walk along the street
Are the glances that you meet
To your maiden fancy sweet,
Little girl ?
If I met you I should stare.
As it is—l only swear,
Knowing others find you fair,
Little girl!
Ah, the happy days of yore,
When you wore a pinafore !
Ah, the days that come no more,
Little girl!
When you raced me through the hay
At the fading of the day',
As the sunset turned to grey,
Little girl!
We shall never ride again,
As we once did, o’er the plain,
Helter-skelter through the rain,
Little girl!
We were friends then all the day,
Now I go a different way—
Every sunset turns to grey,
Little girl!
VIC.
P.N.R.


Charles Heidsieck
REIMS
EXTRA DRY
FINEST EXTRA Q?
Only One Way To Be Beautiful— use
VALAZE! Absolutely no preparation ever
invented will help you like VALAZE. Thousands
of ladies speak in glowing terms of its wonder-
ful beauty-giving properties and its power to
restore the complexion to its original beauty.
Try one jar to-day—price 3s. 6d. and 6s. ; posted
6d. extra. VALAZE Soap 2s. (lasts six months);
VALAZE Herbs (Aromatic) 3s. 6d. packet;
VALAZE Skin Tonic, most cooling and refresh-
ing 3s. 6d. bottle; VALAZE Face Powders 2s.
box (3 tints) to dust on the face. Ask your chemist
or write direct. Mdlle. Rubinstein, 243 Collins-
street, Melbourne. Mention this paper and
receive “ Guide to Beauty ” free.
THE QUEEN’S FACE FOOD.
Old ladies made young. Young ladies made
beautiful. No more wrinkles, pimples, or black-
heads, but a beautiful, clear, peachlike complexion,
for those who use the Queen’s Face Food.
Manufactured by Dr. Noel, the Queen’s own
beautifier. Thousands have derived the greatest
benefit from it, and speak highly of it. Obtainable
at Mr. Broth wood’sand all leading chemist’s, and at
Madame Olga’s beautifying Boudoirs, Gov. Savings
Bank Chambers, Moore St., Sydney, 3s. 6d., 6s.*
RAINCOATS.
“eSAV^METTCS"
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
he
ew
iorsets
For Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . . .
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 25, 1905.
My Dear Arini.—
A bouncing Sydney widow—she is a double-
distilled widow m point of fact—was the most
magnificently dressed presentee at the last Draw-
ing Room. One item of her decorations, as told by
press letters, was “trails of true lovers’ knots” on
the train of her robe. Certainly, she wore these
true lovers’ knots behind her. But what is the
significance ? Does it mean that she has put
thoughts of love behind her for ever, or that she
is prepared to turn round in a friendly spirit if she
notices any highly eligible person following her ?
The annual University ball is “ going down ” in
a society sense. Last week’s fixture boasted no
members of the Senate, no Chancellor, no Regis-
trar, no dons. There are some professors’ wives
who make Government House the only objective
outside Woollahra. Distinctions between one
University family and another are too minute to
be followed. At Mrs. (Prof.) David's ball last
week such magnates as the Anderson Stuarts and
the MacCallums made the vacuum that every Uni-
versity candidate abhors. They had prior engage-
ments. When Lord Beauchamp went to this ball
in the sweet, bloomy past, the function was rushed,
and the sale of tickets stopped weeks before. Last
week an advertisement meekly explained where
pasteboards could be bought. Like all balls com-
mitted by men, the males outnumbered the girls
by almost four'to one. Free bar and smoking-
facilities kept many men off the waxed floor. By
8.30 the stairs were filled with squatters-out,
making it difficult for fresh arrivals to squeeze
through. The ball-room was empty, and the bye-
ways densely populated. A perfectly natural
state of things when the squatters are in life’s
young dawn. There were no formalities, no set,
no one to wait for ; the ball just began and rolled
on. There were bewildering numbers of extra
dances, extra tall palms, extra men, extra plain
frocks, extra pretty debutantes with extra showery
bouquets. The most prominent woman there was
Mrs. Schofield, wife of the lecturer on chemistry.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Gardner and their small
child are staying at Petty’s Hotel. The
gentleman will be remembered as Miss Carrie
Swain’s manager. His union with her was
declared no marriage by the French courts.
The new Mrs. Gardner, a Frenchwoman, is
hurrying around in blue serge and tan boots look-
ing at Sydney's beauty places. She is of good
height and figure, has a colorless face with pale
blue eyes, downward crescent of mouth, and a
quantity of lustreless ash-colored hair. But her
smile and teeth are charming, and the contour of
the face is like that in Clytie rising from the
Heliotrope. In age she might be anything from
28 to 38. The great motor man himself is still
large, and is now iron grey.
Miss Elsie Moore is again in Sydney wearing
the newest thing in smart serge walking suits.
It’s sleeves are so short that they are just shoulder
puffs. A lengthy suede glove shaped to the arm
takes the place of more sleeve. She expects to
leave for America next month.
Fitz-Williain Curtis, who has just been divorced
by his wife, one of the handsome Misses Fattorini
of Sydney, has had a curious career. The son of
a C.E. clergyman, he first adopted the army as a
profession. Coming to Australia he struck a vein
of hard luck, and was for a time assistant care-
taker to a Melbourne cricket ground. Then he
went as groom with horses to Singapore, met
there some English friends, and as a result got a
good post with the Burmese mounted police.
Curtis is a good-looking man, with a great charm
of manner, and made many friends in Australia.
But he does not seem to have treated his wife too
well, judging from his Honor’s remarks in the
divorce court.
An Australian returned from a European tour
tells me that France and England showed a pro-
nounced entente cordiale in welcoming the young
King of Spain—a handsome youth, who might
stand for Byron’s Don Juan in appearance, but is
far too jealously chaperoned to allow him to match
that gay spark in conduct. One Parisian paper of
some standing recorded an emphatic protest
against this excessive chaperonage. “ The King
of Spain on Monday,” it said, “after early Mass,
visited the Louvre, and was shown round by So-
and-So. Then he lunched with the President.
Then he was taken to a Review. Then a State
dinner and the Opera House. On Tuesday the
same—early Mass, official visits, official meals,
and official attendance at an official theatre. Wed-
nesday again the same. Is this our vaunted
French hospitality? Why not introduce the
young King to a representative Parisian beauty
and let him tour the music-halls with her ? ”
The young Spanish monarch is, it seems,
destined for early matrimony, and the name of
the English Princess Patricia is mentioned in that
relation if the religious difficulty can be overcome.
The Queen of Spain must be rigidly R.C.
Our divorce Judge, Mr. G. B. Simpson, is, I’m
told, having a merry time in Europe. A Waler
noticed him the other day deeply enjoying a
French farce, with divorce trimmings, in a Parisian
play-house. Probably Mr. Simpson, from a sense
of duty, is devoting some of his holiday time to an
investigation of the divorce literature of other
countries.
A local man, a friend of Dr. Muecke, writes to
me: “Ada Crossley couldn’t ‘tower’ over her
husband unless she stood on a chair. I am six
feet to a line, and Muecke is taller than I. The
contralto is barely five feet eight. Her slender-
ness, her long neck and pile of hair make her
appear taller than she really is.” A Maori-
lander now padding about London writes me
that she called to see Mrs. Muecke, and was
introduced to “Chummie,” the husband. The
visitor said she wanted an “ impression ” of her—
the bride—for a writing friend, at which Ada
chortled and hid her face on a Persian kitten
“It is evident,” comments the visitor, “that she
is having her perfect hour.”
When I mentioned, a letter or so ago, that Miss
Sophie Osmond, the ex-Melbourne presswoman
had had a serial story in London Daily Mail, I
did not know that she had taken the competition
money-prize offered by that paper for the be.-t
x ex , e . V there ” past 200 competitors.
Jolly Sophie has a nice big flat of her own, and
writes novelettes, in which the bold bad baron and
the dark saturnine count go their wicked ways
deceiving girls with svelte figures and big startied
eyes. The English novelette reader must have
these creations, saj s Sophie, and a moated grange
has to be reached down to them occasionally.
Two artistic Melbourne mademoiselles, Nellie
Yeitch and Portia Geach, are in Sydney these
days when the car of Plimbus— as Dan O’Connor
would say—must be getting hot axles from over-
work. (Is anyone else sick of the monotony of
this blue-and-gold, eternal-sunshine weather in
Sydney ? I am. I yearn, with feminine con-
trariety, to feel once more the mud and water go
“ squidge ” under my goloshes.) Miss Veit -h Is
staying with a married sister at Mosmans ; she
brought back from London clothes that might b ■
done into verse and recited by the wearer to a
Chopin nocturne. The artist girl, Portia Geach.
shows originality in a tie. It is of pale fawn
leather, not kid—the wide ends slightly snipped,
and the whole stamped, by a bookbinder, with
tiny gold fleur-de-lvs.
Sydney women are still working like yeast in
aid of the Children’s Hospital charity. Mayoress
Taylor, Miss Margaret Harris and Mr. W. G.
Layton have had a great rush of thought, resulting
in novelties for the Mayoress’ ball on August 1.
Twenty-four girls are to dance a stately minuet to
Mr. Arthur Mason’s accompaniment on the organ.
The Yale College quadrille, the latest fashionable
American dance, will also be seen for the first time
in Australia. Three girls are to give a dress
manipulation with skirtswhich contain collectively
240 yards of silk. One will represent the Devil,
the two others Angels. What the celestial and
Satanic impersonators do in their disguise will be
revealed to those who buy five-shilling ball tickets
or two-shilling gallery tickets. A girl Devil
wearing part of a mile of silk as a tail should be
interesting. It’s the sort of Devil some of us
would like to meet in the next world.
When I wrote last week concerning the general
desire “to make a little more money,” I had not
seen Allen Shaw, one of the wizardly persons
appearing with Thurston at the Palace. Shaw is
described as a coin manipulator. When he wants
more money, either to build a cathedral, or to
cover with new patent leathers those American
plantigrade feet of his, he doesn’t work for it—he
just “ pushes the atmosphere with his right hand ”
and coins appear all over his person. “Pushing
the atmosphere”—it is a lovely phrase, and as
American as a quick lunch of hot cakes and iced
water.
Philharmonic Society’s shows draw more mixed
and interesting audiences than do any other
musical festivals in Sydney. Especially is this
true when the society gives “The Messiah.” The
be-diamouded old lady who shudders at the name
of music hall, the intense young woman who talks
of “ the Master’s work,” the old, unmarried, but
happy female, Methody-looking parsons, laboring
men and boys—they all revel in hearing for the
manyth time “Unto Us A Child Is Born,” “I
Know That My Redeemer Livetli ” and the
Hallelujah Chorus. On Saturday night the
audience experienced the full awfulness of the 76
consecutive bars of Amens. It was like “yap,
yap ” for all eternity. Under Hazon’s sensible
innovation of concluding “ The Messiah ” with the
Hallelujah chorus the vast Amen doesn’t yap.
Mr. George Upward, Usher of the Black Rod
in the Federal Parliament and coach of the Vic-
torian eight for twenty years, is seriously ill at
Hunter’s Hill. He came over intending to see the
big boat-race, but fell sick immediately on arrival.
There are great possibilities m a country which
has a population of 80,000,000. Four American
‘ married women are now under sentence of death
for murder.
The engagement is announced of Mr. A. W.
Jose, the London Times representative in Aus-
tralia, to Miss Abseil. The Abseil girls, one of
whom married artist George Lambert, are uncom-
monly good-looking, in a Puritan-Quakerish way,
and have literary leanings. Mr. Jose has done
some good literary work, and will do more, it may
be safely prophesied, as his post on the Times
gives him excellent opportunities.
Heermann’s violin appears to be the oldest that
has yet reached these shores. It is a genuine
Strad ; built in seventeen something, and shows
no sign of physical decay. When son Emil’s
fiddle went wrong at a recent concert, Heermann
senior didn’t offer to lend his.
Strange as it might seem, some of the
most excited spectators of the Stanbury-Towns
sculling match were women—and middle-aged
women at that. Absolutely the most vocif-
erous party I saw was an ancient lady of
nearly 60, and she got so excited that when
StanDury approached a rocky ledge to speak to
some friend, she bounced wildly into the water
till it reached her waist in her anxiety to shake
hands with the new champion. The variety
of frocking was amazing. It was almost as diver-
sified as the kinds of craft on which people
floated in order to get a glimpse of the
great race. Even the catamaran was there, or
rather two of it were, and fine safe craft they
are, too. But the master-stroke of originality
was where, beside a dapper motor-launch, all
burnished copper and pale-green enamel paint, a
bushy-bearded savage stood upright on a couple
of planks lashed together, which he had pro-
pelled into position with a long pole. He must
have been very tired standing there in the burn-
ing sun, and even his beard ha l to be parted
decimally true to preserve his balance. Down
where the judge’s boat was moored the effect was
that of a floating garden, owing to the blossoms in
the women’s hats.
One of the side shows of London is Jay’s. A
returned Sydneysider tells ine of seeing a model
“ trying-on ” costumes. There are six model tryers-
on, all tall and slender and well-propo.tio.iel.
Sometimes they are not by any means pretty-
faced, but they must have beautiful figures,
with a good curve at the back of the
waist and graceful movements. “A grey silk
and chiffon get-up that I fancied was put
on (out of sight) by the exhibitor, who then swept
in with her head well up. She spoke not a word
during the showing o'f and didn’t even look at us.
The elegant shopman who conducted the show did
the talking, and he directed the turnings and
fixings of the model with a wand. Never did he
touch the costume or the wearer with his hand.
These girls get a pound a week and a few out-door
costumes are supplied to them. Sometimes they
marry well —not as well as the ballet or the chorus,
but good matches all the same.
Seems to me that when I neglect for long to pay
homage to the Blue Mountains, their sheer crags
1 jok more frowningly on me and their cliffs turn
colder profiles from me. The air there is now soft
with a summer-to-be, and the Kanimbla Valley at
Medlow smells of gums and incense ; and if you
want to feel the heart of silence throb with
a soundless word, lie as the lizards lie on
one of the warm flat rocks overhanging
the grey-green and purple depths. The Consuinp-
t:ves’ Home at Wentworth Falls is well worth a
v s.t now that the new “ shelters” are in position.
Like glorified sentry boxes they stand dotted
about the acreage, closed on one—the western-
side, and open on three. And the afflicted people
never see a fire —unless a bush blaze in the sum-
mer. A deeply interested visitor to the Homes
last week was Senator Dobson of Tasmania. He
was staying at the Medlow Hydro. Mrs. Dobson
and other progressive Tasmaniennes are anxious
to inaugurate a sanatorium for consumptives in
their own island, and the Senator did his best to
get his consumptive education liberalised by the
doctor in charge.
An operatic artiste now with us tells how, if you
are in Paris, you may set about getting a six-hun-
dred guineacostumeforabout twelveor twenty-five.
Many of the workers at such famous shops as
Paquin’s or Doucet’s work in their own homes
night and early morning, and others keep obscure
little shops in obscure little quarters. From these
you may, by buying your own materials, get the
replica of the gown that thrilled London drawing-
rooms when Lady J. Bull appeared in it a few
weeks previously. Worst of it is that to Sherlock
out these homes and shops you’ll want more
French than is enough for the reading of a froggy
menu.
An American woman has patented an invention
by which fat persons may lace their shoes without
stooping. To the aged and infirm it will also be
a boon. One lace string is permanent in position,
and pulling the top of it laces the shoe, pulling
the bottom string loosens it.
Apropos of the alleged love of authority, a man
asked me, recently, wherein lay the tram-conduc-
tor’s fascination for women. I replied that per-
sonally I regarded the conductor with great sus-
picion and dislike. He frequently starts the tram
when I have one foot on the step. But the seeker
after human motives was not to be snagged. He
went on to relate how he had just seen three
women, of more than average good looks, and
with the dress and voices of well-bred inhabitants,
board a car, and when the conductor collected their
fares, they made his acquaintance—introduced
themselves, so to speak, by the offer of chocolates.
He accepted with calmness, and proceeded to
chat, and they looked and acted as if they were
the favored persons. “Is it,” asked the ques-
tioner, “ the momentary authority, or the brass
buttons '! Women love uniform. In this instance,
the conductor had no looks or physique to recom-
mend him, but he touched a bell like a man of
destiny, and the vehicle meekly stopped. ” Trying
to reply to such speculations always gives me
brain-fag, so I say nuffink But if women love a
uniform, the simulation of authority, and an ap-
pearance of physical strength, their intellect
ought to totter in the presence of policemen.
An Adelaide correspondent writes :
“ Mayor Bruce’s ball, held on July 20th, wasn’t
in the running with Mayor Cohen’s splash last
year. Mayor Cohen’s third ball was on such a
large scale that it required the Exhibition Build-
ing, but Bruce came back to the Town Hall, and
champagne didn’t flow, and there wasn’t even any
‘ sit-down ’ supper. The debutante was a scarce
quantity; in fact there was only one of her.
Taken altogether, however, Mayor Bruce’s ball
was better stage-managed than Mayor Cohen’s.
Invitations had been sent to one girl only in each
family, and, therefore, there was plenty of room
for dancing. Oue dressmaker complained that
she had 50 fewer dresses to make for the event this
year than last.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“Nothing comes of that Women’s League libel.
Toorak, with toupee bristling on end, has been
awaiting it in vain. The graceful dame most con-
cerned is looking jaunty again, and returning to
prominence with a conqueror’s air, and the gilded
matron who was, expected to star as chief witness
recovers her spirits, but has not yet arrived at
talking the matter over with her pals. It’s
believed that the ghost of that libel is laid.
“Miss Elaine Molesworth, eldest hope of the
Judge, is reported to be having a good time
abroad. In Paris she saw Miss Mignonette
Clarke, still at song-practice, and very chummy
with Amy Castles, who. by the way, tries her
operatic roulades on the gay capital in sweet
September. Miss Molesworth is the youngest of
the Australian set , keeping under the public
eye in the Big Smoke, where Miss Buckley and
hliss Eva Robertson and Miss Nancy O’Loghlen
revolve to rag-time music. No talk of any returns
yet awhile.
“Charity Committees are constantly in trouble
as to which Governor is to be approached for
patronage and presence at a contemplated show.
Suppose they arrive at the conclusion to solicit
the name and company of the greater Ex., and
she declines the honor. Then in inviting the
smaller Ex. is it correct to intimate that the
other personage has already declined ? Or is it
better to conceal that fact, and pretend that Lady
Talbot is the real summum bonum of their aspira-
tiom, and that they wouldn't think .stag
Ladv Northcote on any account ? it is an awa
ward thing to explain to one lady that she is on y
asked for want of a better. On he other hand it
is not easy, seeing the strong hght that beats
upon Government House, to conceal a little tact oi
“ Mrs. Norman, wife of the Alfred Hospital
secretary, has suddenly left for London. • • •
pasteboards surprised qu te a large circle, it •
Norman is a strung, curious personality, witn a
perennial flow of talk, and red-brown eyes, tier
hair is en suite. Her connection with the politi-
cal League drew a strong light on her commancl
of metaphor and unusually fine dressing. 1
was booked, the other day, for the star-
lecture of the season. Crowds flocked
to the Prahran hall in expectant spirit
and smart toques. Then occurred a curious
thing. Leaders of the League talked to each ottiei
and their cronies in muffled whispers. , ora as
it were lap-tongued from ear to ear that Airs.
Norman would not talk that night. No reason
was forthcoming. The knowing merely looked
solemn and mysterious. Then rotund Premier
Bent was asked to talk in the place of the lec-
turess. A flabbergasted Tummy exploded into the
record vulgarisms of the season, and a crowd that
had put on its best bib and tucker to hear an
Alexandra Club member with red-brown eyes and
a rare tongue of eloquence, hearkened instead to a
flow of blunt shockers from Bent. Why the
lecturess failed to appear is a long story. How-
*ever, it wasn’t her fault.
“ The story of a matron in a swagger hotel
absent-mindedly wandering into a neighbor s
apartment and preparing dreamfully for the
night’s sweet repose, and being found by another
dame and stormfully put out, is swelling like a
snowball as it rolls along. The man appeared
after the absent-minded visitor arrived in the
room, and was just about to point out the mistake
(so it is said of him), when his missus arrived and
gave the order direct and with rude abruptness.
“ The Bridge scandal has reached a climax. In
the principal hotels hereabouts a minute has been
entered into the books that no gambling is to be
allowed in any of the public rooms. The women
players must deal the cards in privacy, and pay
for the privacy. Up to now they have simply
taken all the cosy corners or reading-rooms of the
hotel for their gambols. All that is ended. Ihe
Bridgers are furious, but others are joyful.
“It seems from the examiners’reports on this
year’s matriculation passes that the young vie.
native is hopelessly weak in grammar and any free
exercise of intelligence. "As for weak grammar,
only two or three,’says the examiner, ‘were able
to give an example of an illative conjunction, and
not more than half-a-dozen could state coyicisely
the difference between a gerund and a participle.
And so on. But are illative conjunctions !];hso-
lutely needful in the grown-up curriculum ? This
scribe matriculated with bulging honors not so
many years ago, and she can’t furnish an example
of an illative conjunction nor give any exact par-
ticulars of a gerund, and yet knows enough gram-
mar to alight readily on blunders of speech and all
that. What is the practical use of ‘ illative con-
junctions,’anyhow?
“ The Grey Dame of Stonington is interested in
epileptics. She heads a movement to raise a home
for those so afflicted, and wrote her first letter of
appeal to the papers last week, signing herself
Margaret J. Talbot. People often wondered
what the front name of the lady was. Now they
all declare she looks a Margaret—a perfect Mar-
garet. Fancy the intimate Maggie, though; or,
worse still, the rakish Peg ! Peggie Talbot! it’s
quite blasphemous. And yet her Ex. is said to
have a mirthful, mischievous twinkle concealed in
the corner of her eye.
“Autumn sunsets (mostly damp dirges) abound
in the Vic. Artists’ Exhibition. What’s the mat-
ter with gorgeous summer madrigals, wattle son-
nets of springtime, and the golden rhapsodies that
Australia is given to ? Why so much of autumn
miserably dripping tears and sighs over a sullen
’roo-land ? Why the soggy portrayal of the
sky in sulks? The artists’ fancy in this State
seems to turn naturally to thoughts of
woe. This shows even in the portraits. Albert
Enes perpetrates a most melancholy female. This
lady was never intended to be served up to a
public gallery. Several other woebegone figures
(not woebegone enough to be tragic) stare gloomily
from chair seats. Theo. Brooke Hansen (whose
name is brass-plated on the frame like a molar-
puller’s) has the most colossal ‘ Autumn ’ in the
show—a vast expanse of weather woe. over hill and
dale, relieved only by a fine sky color. Even
Blamire Young, who makes art holiday in poster
extravagance (as a means of artfully rolling on the
grass), puts a mirthless young female in his pic-
ture. The whole show is solemn drab, and in its
best parts mournful.
(Continued on page SO.)


CURED INCURABLE
Thomas Weeks of Goulburn
Cured of Locomotor Ataxia
by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“ A FEW years ago I was a helpless cripple,
/\ paralysed by Locomotor Ataxia. To-
day I am strong, robust, active, and in
perfect health. And the sole credit for
my cure goes to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People.”
This is the simple, sweeping, straightforward
statement of Thomas Bradley Weeks, of Helena-
street, Eastgrove, Goulburn, N.S.W. The facts
of his marvellous case are known to his neighbors,
among whom he is universally respected. He has,
moreover, backed up his words by a solemn oath
before the Mayor of Goulburn.
“A terrible heat wave, one February, knocked
me clean out, and left my spine half paralysed. I
was building a truck-yard at Yarra, near Goul-
burn. At nine in the morning it was 109 degrees
in the shade. Two days later I could not walk.
For over a year I was only able to shuffle about
the house. AH power of movement left my legs.
Once I sat down, I could not get up. If I coughed,
I would fall to the ground. My muscles had no
strength. My spine was paralysed. Sharp, shoot-
ing pains shot through my legs and thighs. In a
few months it was plain that I had that terrible
disease, Locomotor Ataxia.
“ People tortured with Rheumatism came to see
me, and when I told them how I suffered, they
said I had the same disease as themselves. When
I told others about the sharp, shooting pains down
my leg, from my hip to my heel, they said I had
Sciatica.
“ But I knew that I had worse than either. I
knew I had Locomotor Ataxia, and the doctors
say that that is the most painful disease in the
world and absolutely incurable.
“For a year-and-a-half, I was a confirmed
invalid. Month after month, I lay in my bed—
unable to work or even to walk. My spine seemed
to have lost all its power. It was decaying with
Locomotor Ataxia. In three months I lost three
stone in weight. Then, after two of the best
doctors had a go at me and failed, I started
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. I read
how they had cured a Sydney man named Jarvis
of Locomotor Ataxia by_building up his .spine
through the blood—and that is just what they did
for me. Three boxes worked wonders. Of course,
they didn’t cure me in a week or two. I wasn’t
silly enough to expect that. I had made up my
mind to give Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills a fair trial
if I had to take fifty boxes. From the first, how-
ever. they gave me a wonderful appetite. I must
admit that that was the only good I noticed from
the first four or five boxes. Then I began to sleep
soundly, and my nerves grew stronger and steadier.
By-and-bye, I could feel the new blood in my
veins warming me up and making me feel better
in a dozen ways. Then the shooting pains were
not so bad. Little by little, my spine grew
stronger. I got better control over my nerves and
muscles. The life came back to my paralysed legs
and back, and I could walk about slowly. From
that time on, I improved rapidly. At last I stood
completely cured !
“ Eight months after my cure, I walked 110
miles in four-and-a-balf days—not a bad record
for an old fellow over 60. And the best of it is I
am cured for good. It is seven years now since
l)r. Williams’ Pink Pills drove Locomotor Ataxia
out of my system —and I have never had a sign of
it since.”
When Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills raised Thomas
Weeks to health and strength, after he had been
paralysed by Locomotor Ataxia, it is no wonder
they cure common ailments, like ansemia, indi-
gestion, biliousness, headaches, backaches, kidney
trouble, liver complaint, nervousness, neuralgia,
rheumatism, and the secret illnesses of girls and
women, whose health depends upon their blood.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure all these because
they strike at the root and cause m the blood.
They don’t bother with mere symptoms. They
don’t act on the bowels. They do only one thing,
but they do it well—they actually make new
blood. That is the secret of their success. Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by chemists and
storekeepers, or sent, post free, by the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, 2s. 9d. a box,
six boxes 15s. 3d.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Premier Bent of Victoria has made one
more promise. He says that his funeral will not
cost £4O.
Be Willis. Informant J. Haynes, prosecu-
ting attorney R. Haynes, defending attorney S.
Haynes. It never Haynes but it pours.
Thorold Waters, who will be remembered
in Australia as a pressman with a pleasing tenor
voice, has made a successful first appearance in
London as a singer.
When land-agent Nick Willis was making
his first business successes he disclaimed all repu-
tation for ability. “I am only a simple bush
lad,” he used to say.
The patriarch of Norfolk Island, William
Quintal, died on July 6th, aged 86 years. His
grandfather, Matthew Quintal, was an A.B. of
Captain Bligh's ship, the Bounty, and one of the
mutineers under Fletcher Christian in 1789.
Lewis Cohen, the only Conservative candi-
date returned for Adelaide in recent elections,
was complaining of his solitary state: “ I had
hoped to have one, at least, of my colleagues in
with me, but alas! I am the one little Jew
lamb.”
Dr. Gosman, the Hawthorn (Vic.) Con-
gregational parson, at his jubilee celebration, said
he had been told by a Yarra-bank person that he
was fast descending into hell. “If I am,” said
the old man, “it is strange that I suffer so
terribly from cold feet.”
An old Bathurst identity went over last
week in the person of John Edwards, who for a
great many years kept the Bridge Inn at Perth,
four miles from the City of the Plains. He was
amongst the pioneers at Bendigo and Forest
Creek-, and helped to make some history in the
“roll-up ” at Lambing Flat.
Joe Cook, M.H.li., only saw sunlight
once a week when, as a boy, he worked in a
Staffordshire coal-mine (the spread of Socialistic
legislation did away with that form of slavery),
and the gaps between his periods of intelligence
with respect to public facts would show that he
still stays underground in a mental sense for long
periods.
Captain Francis Crossman Doveton, Vic-
toria’s first gold commissioner, died at Melbourne,
the other day, aged 87. He was born at South-
hampton (Eng.), and as a lieutenant came with the
51st Regiment to Sydney in 1838. His uncle was
officer commanding the troops that guarded
Napoleon at St. Helena.
PURVES , K.C., TAKES THE CHAIR.
John Warton, recently hanged at Bris-
bane, executed a difficult fantasia on the prison
organ the day before he was suspended. Frederick
Bailey Deeming used to brag about his love for
Wagner and Yerdi. Charles Peace, murderer
and house-thief, performed exquisitely on the
violin. These musicans somehow drift to a bad
end.
According to Lombroso, at a recent
criminologist convention, “the Czar is a lunatic—
not a criminally-minded lunatic, but an innocent,
melancholy idiot, the easiest of tools in the hands
of flattering influence.” Lombroso also states
that all the reigning European monarchs are more
or less mad, and he brackets Emperor William
and Sultan Abdul-Hamid as criminal lunatics of
the worst type.
Centenarians need to have good memories.
The Sydney snips paper recently published the
yarn of a man who claims to be 105 years old, and
tells in proof how, on the eve of Waterloo, a friend
called on him “to purchase a stamp to send a
letter to the front.” Waterloo was fought in 1815,
and stamps, the Journal of Philately points
out, were invented in 1840.
The rush to imitate the Governor-General
in the wearing of Australian tweeds recalls the
incident of Protectionist Allen, M.L.A. (father of
Alfred Allen, a some-time-ago FreetradeM.L.A.),
going to N.S.W. Government House in Australian
tweeds and being refused admittance—not pre-
cisely because the cloth was locally manufactured,
but because of the cut of the garments.
According to a Ministerial admission in
Vic. Assembly, that fine old Tory, ex-Minister
M‘Kenzie, who had to resign from the Iceberg
Cabinet in January, 1903 (2| years ago), when it
was proved that in his capacity as head of the
Lands Department he had allotted valuable State
lands among his own family, hasn’t yet handed
back the free railway pass granted to him as a
member of the Executive.
Lewis Cohen, M.P. of S.A., strained his
throat whilst electioneering, and since hasn’t had
the best of voices. He talks of going to England
in the near future for repairs, and will possibly
try at the same time to discover the reason why
his title has been delayed.
Recently S. M. Herald published a
column and a half of “ The Public Library ” from
its foundation as a subscription library in Gover-
nor Darling’s time. Though mention is made of
most of the officials, from the founder, Thomas
de la Condamine, secretary to Governor Darling,
onwards, nothing is said of old John Fairfax
who, on arriving in Sydney in 1838, accepted the
position of librarian.
The first Hebrew wedding in Australasia
was solemnised in 1832 between Moses Joseph
and Miss Nathan. Mr. Joseph was a general
warehouseman at 71 George-street, Sydney. The
ceremony was performed by Mr. P. J. Cohen,
afterwards a merchant at Maitland, under a letter
of authority from the Chief Rabbi in London.
The “synagogue” was a store, still standing m
Bridge-street, and now used by Mr. Charles Bath
as an office.
Alfred Deakin’s father used to keep books
for Cobb and Co. in Melbourne in the early
sixties. Deakin jun. used to play marbles, on
strictly honorable lines, in front of a row of
suburban cottages that extended along from
Kirk’s Bazaar to Robertson and Moffatt’s. Eliza-
beth-street was then a cross between a creek and
a gutter, and had to be negotiated by a cab or raft
in the winter-time.
Wood, an old-time South Aus. Public
Trustee, absconded years ago with a colossal
amount, and went to South America, whence he
never returned. Before flitting he, ostensibly in
his public capacity, consulted a lawyer as to a safe
place for an absconder (he didn’t say that he was
the absconder); and, after a while, the Government
received a bill from that legal man : “To advising
Mr. Wood re extradition laws.” Of course it had
to be paid, too.
The story of the foundation of the fortune
of a wealthy Maorilander, as told by himself, is
good. “ A sailin’-ship, freighted with hardware,
went ashore on the coast,” he said, “ and her cargo
was sold by auction. Part of the cargo consisted
of camp-hovens, and I bid two bob apiece for ’em.
‘ Ow many will you take?’ says the man with the
’ammer. ‘ I’ll take the lot,’ I said, and he books
’em to me. Now, there was three acres and a-’alf
of them camp-hovens, and I sold ’em all at four
bob apiece. Times was good, and I used to take
the money from the customers at the door and
then turn them hinto the wilderness of camp-
hovens in the back yard to take their pick. That’s
the germ of me fortune.”
Price, the S.A. Labor leader, is a Welsh-
man with a great natural gift of eloquence, and
he has sat in the Assembly for 12 years. He is by
trade a stonemason, and worked for the contractor
who built Parliament House. Now, however, he
resides on a little block of land in one of the
suburbs, and cultivates the soil. Peake, the
Liberal leader, was for many years a district coun-
cil clerk at Narracooi'te, in the south-east, but is
now an auctioneer at Mount Barker. He is the
very antithesis of the emotional and impulsive
Labor leader with whom he is united in politics,
being a phlegmatic, deliberate and stolid person —
the sort of valuable reinforcement who comes up
behind with a heavy tread after Price has rushed
headlong into the battle with insufficient forces.
Melbourne Herald lately printed an in-
teresting note on a little, old-fashioned church
and churchyard at St. Helena, a less-than-town-
ship between Greensborough and Eltham—only
14 miles from Melbourne G.P.O. Here, in the
bush, way back in ’59, came one Major Beale,
who had been paymaster of the troops that
guarded the “man of destiny” at St. Helena.
When Beale’s wife died, soon after, he erected a
small but beautiful memorial chapel. Outside
the chapel are a few scattered graves—that of
Beale himself was opened lately to receive the
body of his son. Another holds the remains of
late P.M. Graham Webster, whose headstone
tells that he was “ the last of his race, who des-
cended in one unbroken line from father to son
for 779 years.”
“ Wusslean ” : A noticeable feature of the
celebration of Dr. Gosman’s 50th year in the Con-
gregational ministry, which took place recently at
Hawthorn (Melbourne), was the chilling silence
in which references to his work on behalf of the
Anti-Sweating League were received. It was the
eloquent Deakin who broached the subject of Dr.
Gosman’s efforts to ameliorate the conditions of
labor, and I was nearly lulled to sleep by that
silver voice. I was roused by the fall of a solid
substance on my corn. It was my breath, which
had frozen through a sudden change in the atmo-
sphere of the hall. On looking round, I found
almost the whole audience were stiff and coated
with ice. As Mauger gave additional testimony
the silence and cold became Arctic, and a boxed
look and a stare into vacancy became fixed on
every face as its owner pretended to be anywhere
else but listening to what his pastor had done for
the workers. As I left, the audience was being
gradually thawed with hot coffee.
SHE (sniffing): “O how lovely the perfume of
the clove trees."
JUDKINS : “ Um—yes.”
“L.” : Mention of the Brescians Co. as
four brothers married to four sisters reminds that
three brothers connected with a Collins-street
(Melb.) softgoods firm, have married four
daughters of a Melbourne clerical family—the
second wife of one being his deceased wife’s
sister. There is evidently a strong magnetic
attraction between those two families.
Thomas Bent, talking at Collingwood the
other night, stated that he went to Sunday-school
in the district 50 years ago, and learned about
Jonah, Noah, and the prophets, from Nathaniel
Kinsman, the Melbourne marriage parson of a
more recent period. Having related this as
though it were an interesting conjunction of two
famous names, Bent went on to assure his audience
that it was the truth. Bent’s personal anecdotes
have been so much contradicted that he|}looks
around for disbelief when he tells a new yarn.
And he gets it.
“ G.H.” writes :
I rise to move a vote of confidence in Thomas Price,
Premier-to-come of South Australia. Heard Thomas
speak a piece in Fitzgeralds’ circus building. A plain,
grizzly-bearded man, without enough frill about him to
equip a lady insect for presentation at the Buckingham
Palace of the King Grasshopper. Thomas’s oration was
mainly aimed at young Australia—the section of the
population that talks dog, and horse, and cricket, and
football, and other kinds of leather without ceasing, but
doesn’t know whether it is on the Federal roll or not.
Brother Price exhorted this section of the populace to
attend to the affairs of the country, and to take its best
girl to the pursuit of the muddy globe of wind afterwards.
He apo made some jokes, but he is a failure as a
humorist. Political humorists seem to be a failure in
Australia. Book at Reid, and Bill Wilks, and Con-
roy, and Joke Carruthers, and Joke Cook, and other
vendors of the chestnut that amuses but availeth not
when no-confidence motions are hammering at the Minis-
terial door.
A piquant incident in the life of a Mel-
bourne politician: The M.P. was heading down
Collins-street when he discovered himself to be an
object of particular interest to a tall young man in
a seedy overcoat, and feeling a keen, admonitory
pain as of a bite in his left ear, he increased his
pace. The man in the seedy coat did likewise, till
at last they both broke into a run. Finally the
M.P. sought cover in an oyster saloon, but the
hunter rushed through on his track, spotted his
victim, and pounced on him. Then with the
courage of despair the legislator faced the situa-
tion. “It’s no good, I tell you. I’m bled dry ;
the ear-biters have been at me all morning. I
haven’t got a sixpence. They’ve not even left me
a tram-fare to go home with.” “ Good enough,”
answered the hunter brightly. “ Here’s sixpence.
You can have it if you’ll stand for me for five
minutes. I’m a caricaturist.”
They relate
that when
Melbourne
Book Ar-
'cad i a n
Cole visi-
ted Japan
last year he
hired a rick-
shaw' to take
him round to
the picturesque
spots. Versed
in the ways of
tourists, and ig-
norant that Mr.
Cole wasn’t that
sort of a tourist, the
rickshaw man trotted
off to the most pic-
turesque spot of
the lot, ret King
Cole down, and
stood hy puzzled
when the visitor
was content to
examine the
place, laugh
over the
broken English
J of the girls, and
swallow a cup
of tea. King
Cole then dis-
tributed among the
ladies two handfuls of
his brass advertising
medals about the neces-
sity for a Black Austra-
lia. and getting back
into the rickshaw told
his human horse to speed
over the smiling land-
scape. Now many a
traveller who returns
from a trip to
Japan—and who
w'as that sort of
a tourist—strolls
into Cole’s Ar-
cade with a smile,
and, nudging the in-
dignant proprietor un-
der the ribs, playfully
refers to him as a
“ cunning old dawg” or something to that effect.
For the Jap geisha is fond of bringing out a
Cole medal to impress that sort of tourist with a
sense of her importance, and that sort of tourist
refuses to believe that Cole was the other sort of
tourist.
An ancient and well-worn link between
this century and the militant days of parson-poli-
tician Lang snapped at Ashfield (N.S.W.) a week
or so ago. Lang induced several Scotch school-
masters to come out this way—among them the
deceased, a classical scholar, Armstrong, M.A.,
whom he sent up to Maitland. At 50 or there-
abouts the schoolmaster followed Lang into the
pulpit, and hammered out sermons at Tamworth
for another 30 years. It is in Dr. Lang’s old barn-
like Kirk on Church Hill (Sydney) that Dill
Macky shows his calves nowadays.
Dr. Kevin Izod O’Doherty, of Brisbane,
passed out at the age of 81, had an interesting
career. While studying medicine as a young man
in 1848 he joined R. D. Williams in founding the
Irish Tribune, Dublin. After the fifth number
“the Castle” authorities suppressed the paper
and O’Doherty was gaoled on a general charge of
treason-felony. On the third trial the jury agreed
and the sentence was 10 years. O’Doherty was
sent to Tasmania, where he arrived in 1849, and
was released on parole. In 1854 he received his
pardon, conditionally that he did not live
under the British flag, so he went to Paris.
Soon after he secretly invaded Ireland, and
stayed just long enough to marry Miss
Kelly (“Eva,” of the Nation), who survives
him. Receiving a full-blown pardon in 1856,
he took his medical degree at Dublin, and a few
years later went to Queensland. He sat for a
while in the Assembly as member for B isbane,
and afterwards mouldered uneongenially for nine
years (1877-86) in the Upper House. He went
back to Ireland in ’B6 and became M.P. for Meath,
but the bogs didn’t seem the same after all those
years, and in a few months he made for Queens-
land again and hardly ever left it any more.
Some day a politician may arise in N.S.W.
who will shake himself free of party influences,
and go in for opening up the coast lands by strong
means. The best of those lands are in the hands
of mortgagees, who will not sell them, and will
only let them on terms that make small-area
settlements a snare and a slavery. Unmortgaged
owners —who are rare—follow the example of the
mortgagees ; and so the country —pierced with
railways and rained upon with moderate regu-
larity—lies to a great extent under lock and key,
while the country where rain is precarious and
railways are far between, takes in and does for the
man who hopes to make a living on a small area.


There’s the sneezy cold, the wheezy cold,
The tickler in the glottis;
The chilly cold, the killy cold,
The cold that burning hot is ;
The tearful cold, the fearful cold
The one that all the lot is—
Yet these be colds that none endure
Who purchase Woods’ Gbeat Peppermint Cube.*
FALIERES' PHOSPHATINE
A Valuable adjunct to lafantll* Dietary.
I'arents who would rear Strong Children, and
the troubles incidental to Teething, should use it
msmim
mu
tfgStr
FOOD FOR INFANTS ft INVALIDS
ftix Cg«Ki«i» a»n Omium. j
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE in Stee/, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHINERY
A\e would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 633 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
Aboriginalities.
“Paul Cupid”: Of the 93 Australian
snakes, a man might be bitten by 31 without the
slightest need to make a will. In the case of 61
others, he need not make his will either, if he
only has some presence of mind. A bottle of
brandy is also a good thing to have in such cases •
it is a good thing to have anyhow. I n the case of
1 inn a knowledge of poisonous snakes would have
saved him a finger and a lot of alarm. Finn was
poking about m some vines, looking for turkeys’
nests. A scientific assassin, who was roaming
about collecting grubs and butterflies, pulled ud
and made a casual remark. Finn rested his hand
on the vines, and then sprang into the air with a
totally irrelevant observation. The man of science
sprang down with a gleeful shout: “A beauty—
a perfect specimen ! ” “But I’m bit,” said Finn
Oh, it’s all right; the reptile is the innocuous
Diememapsammophis.” “Oh h— ll !isit ’ ” said
Finn as he bolted for the house. He ran in one
door and out the other, then back again, and off
to the ivood heap. Next instant his finger was
lying on the chips, and he was tearing back to the
house for kerosene. Finn now exhibits that
snake and the amputated finger in a bottle, as
evidence of his pluck and presence of mind, ’it’s
an ordinary whip snake (sometimes called the
grey snake), whose bite would cause no more real
damage than the sting of a soldier ant.
* * * *
“ Thurla ” boils over :
“Periwinkle” (B. 22 6/’O5) emerges from his shell to
doubt my veracity on things in general, and to pour sar-
casm and ridicule on a harmless bee item. Well as I’ve
had only a thirty years bush experience, p’raps I’ve not
yet developed his acute sense of smell. In my innocence
I wrote of things as I’ve found them, not as I imagine
they should be. Perhaps “Periwinkle” has a well-de-
veloped olfactory organ, and can locate a “ sugar-bag” or
a decayed animal by such means. Still, it would be ex-
tremely dangerous to attempt to pass an apiary with
such a sensitive nose ; it might become over-
crowded. Have seen the semi-civilised blacks
locate nests in various ways besides flight-tracing.
F'rinstance but this idea is rarely practised ow-
ing to slowness—by searching at night. Their method
is to place the ear against the bole of the tree
the humming noise of the swarm betraying its where-
abouts. As regards the “ down ’’-business, this is the
method. Finding bees clustered at a water-hole, the
black will sprinkle particles of flour on one insect,’ and
note the time between flight and return. If the interval
is long, that insect is suppressed and another substi-
tuted until a quick returner is found. A particle of
thistle-down, moistened with the vegetable fluid if handy,
is then fastened to the bee s abdomen. Combo follows
the mark until the nest is discovered. For a wager, once
on the Castlereagh, a blatant individual of “’Winkle’s”
turn of mind, undertook one spring morning to smell out
“ sugar-bags.” All went serene until he struck a wattle
scrub and lost the trail, if ever he had it, amongst the
heavy honey odor of the wattle-. Thereon a sceptical
and blasd person with a shocking lack of smeil found
several nests by lining che flight of departing bees.
“ Periwinkle,” in the words of Shakspeare, “ Go to 1"
* * * •
An instance of a girl’s remarkable endur-
ance comes from Daylesford (Vic.). Isabella
Evans set out Avith some milk, but put the can
down on the way to chase a coav, and got lost in a
dense fog. She tramped all night and all next
day, but on the second night took shelter in a
hollow log. She Avas hatless and coatless, and her
light dress was saturated Avith rain. When
discovered by Dandenong trackers, she had been
five days without food, and was sitting on a
stump, her clothes almost torn off by under-
groAvth, her boots worn through, and her feet a
mass of blisters. They put her on a pony, and
she rode into (Jlenlyon for refreshment.
“ Uloola”: Some
navvies who were
leaving a big Go-
vernment job de-
cided to “do in”
their creditors,
among whom was
the camp washer-
lady. The coach for
the railway left
camp at 6 a.m., and
the absconders
thought they were
safe when they
found themselves
under weigh with-
out interruption.
But before they’d
gone a quarter mile
the coach was pulled
up, and the lady of
suds faced the dis-
concerted navvies
with an apron full of
blue metal. Poising
an ugly-looking
“gibber” in her
hand, she demanded
tire amount of her
laundry bill, and the
levanters paid over
in haste and im-
plored her not to
shoot. Man always
professes to think
that woman can’t aim straight with a rock, but
when he is the man she proposes to aim the rock
at, he doesn’t live up to his creed.
* * * „
“Elmore”: Springvale, the first Vic.
estate ready for closer settlement, is now awaiting
the settler. The blocks (20 of them, of something
over 100 acres each) are long and narrow, running
from the Kiewa river back to the hills, and I guess
the man who gets a block has a long row to hoe.
He’ll want a Big bank account to fence and stock
it, and a big heart to keep going. All the best of
the estate is under water in the winter. At the
present time there is not an acre of the flats above
water ; in one paddock nearly 3000 pairs of rabbits
have been trapped during May and June. If the
rising young cocky takes to the rabbit and leaves
the cows at dad’s, he may do well.
AN EDUCATION ITEM.
NICK OLD LADY: “And do you go to school, my little man?”
SNOWY : “ Yes, mum.”
NICR OLD LADY: “ And what school do you yo to, ray hoy? ”
SNOWY: “ The ‘two-up ’ school, mum.”
Albury (N.S.W.) supplies a story about a
family sow that was stranded on an island during
the recent flood, and, finding the position despe-
rate, rose up like one hog, took her six baby pigs
on her back, and swam for a place of safety.
Possibly the tale was only manufactured to call
attention to the advantages of Albury as a site for
the Federal capital, but it recalls another yarn
with which it has no visible connection. Years
and years ago, in one of the great Murrumbidgee
floods, a young woman was washed away with her
two baby boys. She hung on to a tree all night,
but towards morning she dropped one of the
infants from sheer exhaustion. In after years
she used to say bitterly that the one great mistake
of her life was that she didn’t drop the other one
also, and almost everybody who met him at the
pub. agreed with her.
• * * «
“ Dem ” : I woke up the other night with
a great start and thought the bottom had dropped
out of the world and that the globe was falling
through into the loose universe. I still had in
my ears the echo of the father of a crash, and
my mate on the other bunk was yelling like
the devil with a stomach-ache nine miles
long. I sat up and asked him what was
the matter. He said that conspirators had
fired cannon at him through the window,
that his head had been amputated, that he
had lost both legs and was covered with
blood and sinking fast, also that he was
dead. I struck a light and found that the
bottle of yeast on the candle-box had ex-
ploded, and that my mate was covered
with the escaped substance and with
broken bottle. When I reassured him and
brought him round, he sat up and said in
a tremulous voice that he never before fully
realised the horrors of war, and he wouldn’t
take Linevitch's job for £lOOO a year. He would
rather stick to ring-barking.
* * • *
“Madcap”: Has any one noticed the
effect of music on milk production ? Recently
bought a nanny goat. Was cheerfully puzzled to
find a great increase in the milk every Wednesday
and Friday morning, the yield being almost double
the quantity given on other days. After discover-
ing and dismissing various theories to account for
it, came to the conclusion that a brass band, that
played in a hall next the paddock where nanny
slept, was the cause. The band practised on
Tuesday and Thursday nights. When it finally
gave up the goat ran dry.
* * * *
“F.A.L.” : At Queenstown, Lake Waka-
tipu (M.L.), recently, I saw a Maori sitting on a
stump, unconcernedly watching his hat being
carried away by a whirlwind. Asked why he
made no attempt to recover the garment that he
wore on his head, he replied: “The wind only
pull my leg. The time I make it the run to get
my hat, he blow somewhere else. No, I stop
here ; and by-and-bye might he blow back again,
when he see he can’t fool me ! ” I saw that
Maori two hours later, on the same stump—still
hatless and hopeful.
“ C.X.G.” : Was much struck, on a recent
visit to S.W. Queensland, with the language used
by the bushmen in those parts. The better friends
they are, the worse their epithets. Was talking
to one of them in his hut, when a man walked in
and called my host a bald-headed old etc. He
also asked him how the Sheol he was getting on.
My host called him a blighted nioigrel and a
cross-eyed old etc. Thought at first they were
deadly enemies, and fled into the fireplace to be
out of the way of the bloodshed ; but they proved
to be old mates who hadn’t seen one another for
some time. After some experience of the district
I inquired earnestly why you were always ex-
pected to call your best friend an illegitimate
cow, or something even worse, and the district
was shocked at the foolishness of the question.
BETTER THAN A CAT.
“O, gran'mama, gran'mama I Come an’ hear
gran'dadda purring so sweetly.”
“San ilemo”: Be “A.C.T.” (15/6/’CS)
on queer methods of snake-killing. Years ago,
on Emerald Downs station (Q.), I saw a flash
stockman pick up a Eft. carpet-snake by the tail,
swing it round his head, and crack it whip
fashion. The snake’s head flew off. Till then I
had thought this snake-whip business was a bush
lie. I have heard of a man who did the
same with poisonous snakes, but haven’t met him.
It appears that the joint next the head is the
weakest in a_ snake’s construction, and in the
whip-flick action the full force of the jerk is
concentrated upon that end.
» * * *
“ Gilrooney ” : The bushman’s vocabulary
of occupation labels is almost inexhaustible. For
instance, a bullock-driver is called a bullocky, a
bovine-puncher, an ox-persuader, a horny-steerer, a
cow-puncher, a buffalo-navigator, a steer-pilot,
and goodness knows what else. But no one has
ever been innocent enough to call him a clergyman.
ANOTHER SCOTCH AGONY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Heoh, si r ! but I was pleased indeed
In your good Bulletin tae read
Yin vera wise poetic screed
Frae Jock M'Fadyen—
It shows the chiel’ has got a heid,
An’ no’ a bad yin.
It s fac as death what Jock indites
Regairdin’ danger tae the whites
Ower whilk we’ve had some bluidless fights
An’ clishniaclaver;
Gude kens, it’s time we got our rights
An’ less palaver.
Ma ain experience gangs tae clinch
Your Jock’s assairtions, every inch,
For ay, mon dear, I’ve felt the pinch
O’ competeetion
Wi’ alien folk, an’ had tae flinch
Frae ma poseetion.
On landin’ here I looked aboot—
Before ma siller a’ rin oot—
For something that ma cairds wad suit,
An’, at a sale-yaird,
I bought an orchard wi’ some fruit,
Forbye a kail-yard.
I thocht, ye ken, I’d grow some k. il,
Wi’ neaps an siclike wares for sale,
An’ dreamed o’ nae sic’ word as fail
When yince in motion ;
But soon a mon wi’ long pig-tail
Dispelled ma notion.
His name, he said, was John Ah Ivee,
Wha no lang syne cam’ ower the sea,
And jabbered little but Chinee
(An awfu’ lingo !) —
He said, “ Me glow good cabbagee ”
The heathen dingo !
He settled near a wee bit creek
No’ far frae me—and, ere a week,
He’d tawtie, onion, kail, an’ leek
In long rows planted.
He seemed tae ken (the yellow sneak !)
What white folk wanted.
As Johnny, like the rats an’ mice.
Could live on tawtie-skins an’ rice,
An’ sell his goods aboot half-price,
It’s no a wonder
That, though his stuff was no ower nice,
He got me under.
I found the game wad never pay—
That things got waur frae day to day,
An’ that I couldna’ pay ma way
Wi’ a’ my hustle ;
I scarce could niak’ enough each day
Tae wet ma whustle.
Gude kens, I wrought baith late an’ lang
As hard as ony mon could bang,
Frae daylight, when the birdies sang,
Till gloamin’ dusky,
An’ hadna’ three bawbees tae gang
An’ buy a whusky !
So, as misfortune pressed me sair,
I sold the kail-yard, in despair,
An’ for the same got little mail-
Than met expenses ;
An’ noo I’m livin’ ony where—
’Mang trees an’ fences.
BUNNY ON HIS LAST JOURNEY.
A record load (2022) of rabbits from Tarana (N.S.W.), on the first
stage of the trip to London.
There’s naething I can get to do—
I’m sick in heart an’ speerit too ;
Alas ! the day I sairly rue
That I left hame,
An’ crossed the ocean wide an’ blue
Tae seek for fame.
Australia’s no’ the land for me
While swarmed wi’ Coolie and Chinee—
Gi’e me the land o’ barley bree
An’ guid thick brose—
The breezy mountain an’ the lea
Whaur heather grows.
But I maun pack ma swag the noo,
An’ shouther ma bit blanket blue
That e’en I seethe daylight through-
fit’s like ma billy)—
An’ I’ll awa’ tae Jamberoo
Or Wollondilly.
Eh mon ! but I wad like tae see
That Jock M'Fadyen ere I dee—
Tae him a hand I’d freely gi’e
Wi’ freendly grippin’,
An’ mebbe juist a drap o’ bree
We’d baith be sippin’.
Weel, Chance, ye ken’s a fickle jade,
An’ frae oor wark wi’ pen or spade—
In fac’, frae ony airthly trade
She’ll sometimes drag us ;
An’ gin we meet (if’t can be made)
We’ll ha’e a haggis !
Sae fareweel Jock—l must be gane,
An’ tramp the country a’ my ane,
Tae wait for wark here’s a’ iii vain—
I’m maist a beggar ;
An’ aiblins ye’ll no’ see again
Auld Rab M'Gregor.
N.S.W.


STEEL, compared with iron, is stronger,
lighter, more lasting and economical.
So is Food when seasoned with
Cerebos
instead of
common
SALT
because it contains the rich, strengthen
ing Phosphates of Wheaten Bran.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Tired in the morning ? There are times
when the night’s rest doesn’t fit you for the day’s
work. Those are the times for a stimulant that
will brace you up and stay by you. The best of
all tonics is Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
What turned the microbe out of home :
And drove him far o’er earth to roam,
Of all his race the last!
What harries him from day to day,
And drives those colds and coughs away,
He manufactures fast ?
Ancestral spirits cry “en masse,”
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure, alas !*
YOUR
RING
PURCHASE
is an anxiety unless you know the
house to buy it at.
We are the Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
15ct. Gold Setting',
5 Opals,
30/-
Marquise King-,
Diamonds and Sapphires,
£l2 12s.
Special Diamonds,
our own make,
We must have done rings well, or else tils' discriminating public would not have supported u.s for so long.
Good rings are valuable as Art productions first, and afterwards for the perfection of their gems.
WE EHPLOY ART RING MAKERS.
We know the best way to buy, and we prevent all intermediate profits.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
Four :|ien were
sitting round the fire
in the parlor when
the landlord entered.
A dog, which had
sneaked in out of
the cold, rose up
and sniffed danger.
“ Here boy,” said the
landlord kindly, pat-
ting him. Then he
added, “If there’s
anything I like it’s a
good dog. This your
dog, Mr. Brown?”
“No, not mine.” The
landlord patted
again, and almost
wept on top of the
animal with affec-
tion. “I’ll bet he’s
a rippin’ sheep dog,
now. I suppose lie's
yours, Mr. Smith ? ”
Mr. Smith disowned
him prompt! v.
“Shakehands, boy,”
said the landlord,
rubbing the old dog
on the nose. “ I ex-
pect you wouldn’t
sell him, Mr. Jack-
son ? ” Mr. Jackson
declined all responsi-
bility for the canine.
There was only Mr.
Burns left, so the
landlord addressed
him. “ I can guess
lie’s been a faithful
friend to you, Mr.
Burns, this many a
year, eh ? ” Burns
woke ujp, and looked
quite indifferent.
“He don’t belong
to me,” said Burns.
Then the landlord
excitedly threw his
foot round like a Maori
footballer. “Git out er this,
yer sneaking mongrel ” (kick,
howl). “Clear out, yer dirty thief”
(kick, bash, yelp). “If there’s anything
I hate, it’s a mangy mongrel hanging round the
place.
“Jimmie Pan” : Rain has fallen so fre-
quently and so copiously in Broken Hill since the
beginning of this climatically-changed year, that
many of: the folk are showing signs of web-footed-
ness. From the line of lode, a gloriously green
panorama stretches away for miles, dotted here
and there with patches of extremely early white
spring flowers. The reserves have that lush
luxuriance that characterises English rural
scenery. Everything points to a wonderfully
fine spring. So far, this year has given a striking
example of that peculiarly alluring weather and
growth which tempt pastoralists to take the risk
of overstocking for a year or two, in the hope of
making a punch big enough to enable them to
escape from exile for good. I have almost for-
gotten what a dust storm is like. I hope to go on
forgetting.
THE ETERNAL COW.
VISITOR: “ How is it none of you fellows lake
any notice of that girl over there: she looks
about the best of the lot.”
NATIVE : “ Her I Why, she can't milk to save
’ersclf.”
‘‘ P. Winkle ” : Round the Kyabrama-
pootra (Vic.) fringe the large landowners swear by
reynard as the champion rabbit-exterminator,
whose fee of a few lambs in the frost-days they do
not grudge. According to these friends, reynard
locates the bunny family by sense of smell in the
burrow, and sinks a diagonal shaft down to his
prey. On the other hand, the farmers and poultry-
raisers hurl oaths at mention of fox, and organise
hunts to scour the swamp areas for him every off-
day. A single fox has been known to exterminate
a flock of 40 gobblers in a night.
THE INVITATION.
THE PEB : “ Are yer doin' it! ”
THE TOM: “ Yes.”
THE PEB: “ Will yer do it with me!”
THE TOM : “ Yes.”
THE PEB : “ Well, let’s do it.” (They do.)
“Janor”: In reply to “ Werrimee’s ”
query re length of snakes (G/7/’O5). I once shot a
carpet snake at Mount Hulton Creek (Q.) which
measured 14ft. Sin. per rule. If I’d got him in
any other country I would have known him for an
Australian, he was in such a deplorable state of
tick. Couldn’t stick a pin into him anywhere
without impaling one of those parasites.
* # # *
“Alec Zander”: About two years after
the disastrous end of Burke and Wills’ badly-
managed expedition, one of their camels
made its appearance on the Culgoa, about
40 miles from Bourke. Tim, the blackboy
(who used to bring up the horses), was the
first to see it. He turned up one morning
in a flustered state, and handed in his
verbal report: “ Mine bin go longa lignum
lookout yarrauian, mine bin see ’em debbil
debbil sit down there ; all same yarraman
baal yarraman, all same emu baal emu.
I bin clear out longa creek swim ’nother
side.. Bimeby mine see ’em track long
a yarraman, him bin ‘ whisht ’ go to plurry
’ell.” Which was in the main true, as it
was two days before the horses were found.
They had met the camel and gone
“whisht.” The humpy one must have
travelled 700 or 800 miles, from Innamincka
in S.A. through Queensland into N.S.W.
It stood round and grunted on the station
for several months, and as no one in those
parts had at that time seen a camel, it was
a great curiosity. I never heard what
became of it eventually. As a kiddie I
saw the tree under which Burke was sup-
posed to have died. It was only about
100 yd. from the stockyard at Innamincka
station, then owned by my dad. Wills’
grave was further up the creek, on a
waterhole called Mulcumbah.
* * * *
The latest scheme of rabbit destruc-
tion is that of veterinary surgeon John
Pottie. The vet. proposes (with £5OOO of Go-
vernment money) to run the rabbits into large
iron rollers, roll them into cakes like oil cake, and
feed them to sheep.
• * * *
The fighting qualities of the horse are
generally overlooked, in spite of the fact that, in
India, “ bad ” horses have, time after time, been
victorious in battles with tigers. There was a
“bad” horse in Ashburton district (M.L.), which
got to holts with a bull one day. The mobile
tactics of his enemy puzzled the bovine warrior,
and the hoofs made him sick of the battle in no
time. There was no chance for bayonet-work
with liis horns, for the horse brought his hind bat-
teries into play at the very beginning, and the
bull went in search of a doctor who could give him
a cure for indigestion. Writer has a keen respect
for a bull with personal intentions, but, if he was
sitting on a fence, and had to chance the teeth
that a bull wears on the top of his head, or the
jaws and back legs of a wicked horse, he would
choose the bull with something like enthusiasm.
“The Prooshan ” : The wild pigs that
“ H.G.” (B. 13/7/ 05) hunted on the Lower Mac-
quarie in the 80’s were only wild at being called
wild, I should imagine. If “ H.P.” ever did any
real wild-pig hunting as I have done on Nap Nap,
he would find the business a little more heroic.
In the first place, “ H.Gr.,” on attempting to run
those pigs to a standstill, would see them do a
magic slew, give a “ chop-chop,” and then charge.
“H.Gr.” would then leave for the doctor mighty
fast too, or some old blue boar would eat him
before he saw medical aid on the horizon. We
had special lances made in Hay, 10ft. long, with
heads 2ft. long, of the best steel, and fit to pene-
trate the hide of a commercial traveller, but we
couldn’t ventilate those hogs with them. A
station regulation required each jackeroo to carry
a lance, but most of us planted the absurd spikes
when we got away from the homestead. The
Snider was the only thing. But I knew one old
fellow who made a big strong bag with an iron
circle at the mouth, and when the pig charged he
let him ram himself into the bag, then, throwing
him on his back, lie drove a long knife into his
sticking spot, and scored that way. We only got
fid. a pair for their ears, which was a ridiculously
small bonus, considering the way they used to
munch up weak sheep.
* * * *
“Fluff”: Starlings in South Gippsland
fly about in flocks of some thousands. Their
method of breeding suggests the wholesale plan of
the poultry-growers’ incubators. A dozen roughly
constructed nests (apparently run up by contract)
are dabbed about the branches of one tree. Each
nest holds about 40 eggs, and a number of parent
birds hatch in one nest. When the fledglings get
a move on them, the atmosphere is darkened by
dense clouds of feathered creatures. Do not know
any other bird that turns out its young by the
bucketful.
* * * *
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : A few notes on
Milparinka, Gibberburra, and other townships in
the extreme north-west of N.S. W. —the real right
out-back. Striking features are the glass heaps
and the goats. The former make one think that
these townships of many vicissitudes and virtues
must have had a riotous youth before settling
down into a steady, parched, middle age. Some
day, in spite of scoffers and unbelievers, this same
north-west corner will develop into a big, prosper-
ous mining field. Then, of course, the good, gay
times will come—but, alas ! the hardy old pioneers,
the grilled but gritty battlers, the openers-up of
the district, will be resting in the Great Beyond—
that is, if such vigorous folk ever do really rest.
Meanwhile, it is good to see the outback com-
munities so refreshingly free from the petty,
paltry cliqueism that makes mean and miserable
the lives of men and women in caste-cursed towns.
In this terrific remoteness, the station folk, the
police magistrate, the teacher, the doctor, the
postmaster, the constable, the storekeeper and
their woman-kind all pull together socially. They
read, ride, golf, play tennis, meet and mix like
the members of a happy family. The utter
absence of tinpot exclusiveness leads to the blessed
belief that, out on these vast plains, the largeness
of Nature gets into people’s souls and expands
them. Certainly the social life is an eye-opener
to me, used to curious conventions in coastal town-
ships, where the banker’s lady looks down on the
teacher’s wife, who patronises the constable’s
wife, who snubs the cocky’s missus, who slights
the laborer’s woman. Two years’ life and labor
west o’ Darling would be a liberal education for
hosts of comfortable city folk, who know not the
land they live in. Through drought and disaster
the flower of Western hospitality blooms perenni-
ally. It is fresher and fairer and sweeter than
the haw-haw hospitality of many much more
favored spots. It is, indeed, something to have
experienced the hearty, homely, downright
kindness of the outbackers. It is a thing that
helps to make one bigger, bolder and better.
THE TRAGEDY OF A CAP.
As they emerged from the tunnel. (And they
wondered why the crowd smiled.)
“ Yia ” : Have you ever seen an aborigine
thoroughly scared ? If not, try a diver in full rig-
out on one and note result. Years ago, when the
as. Wentworth was piled up on the North Head
of Port Denison, an agile nigger from the inlands
dived into the water-logged hold. A diver was
roaming round down below, and they met. llie
nigger emerged grey with funk to halfway down
bis back, and lit out for home and mother like a
black telegraph message. He must have spread
the glad tidings, too, for even now the coast
blacks that way say “ Debble-debble belonga
Northead.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
W.G. : That joke is an old chestnut which we
wouldn’t buy off anybody, but when one of our regular
artists, in the innocence of his heart, sent it in with a
good picture, we disguised it as well as we could and
passed it, rather than reject a deserving illustration. If
you ever had the cheek to send it in as your own inven-
tion—well, you had a cheek D. : “Deceivers” below
your usual mark Wydarrah : “Call” is the old Jazy
metre with “ bluey ”in it T. VV.B. : “ Trouble in Law
Courts ” utterly wooden K. E.: Mere fact that you want
to meet the girl again in the Strand doesn’t justify you
in rushing into poetry... .K.A.S. (Newcastle): “ Old Dog
Tray "kind of thing Laura M. : Providence may for-
give you that poem, but don’t put too great a strain on Pro-
vidence.. . .P. McHugh : You can’t “ Wail” worth 2d....
Korarri: Grievous lack of information as to what really
became of Jim P.J.R. : “Tall Yarn ” is so tall as to be
top-heavy John Mills : (1) The Englishmen would win.
If they won only one match and the balance were drawn,
they would score the rubber Millewa: Your pants
poem got out of breath chasing the idea, without catch-
ing it Walrich: Dog-hanging yarn very ancient
Lake : Merely the ordinary method of rotting-out pearls.
Also, turtle-soup proper is made only from parts of the
green turtle, a very different creature from the hawks-
bill Mars : “Gardening” is a pointless futility
Mary B.: The chief point is that men are everywhere
supporting and educating daughters, who, entering the
market and supporting only themselves, will deprive
other men of the chance of supporting families Mabel
S. : Confused and sloppy S.B.S. : Prehistoric
Edgar S. : “Bennell” doesn’t catch on.,..Mliss : No
quality Alpha: Valueless verse Gilli: Very tame
and wooden....D.H.R. : Badly rhymed and metred
G.M.B. : “ Longing ” represents a class of verse that we
get by the ton Deodar: Only a mild sample of love
verse. ..A.H.H. : Just to blight one of your assertions—you
can buy night shirts at any big draper’s in Sydney. Also,
writer can sell you two second-hand ones.. ..Strays Not
enough point in King Billy’s horse tale.... Hal B. ; : All
just nearly good enough... .Dock : The attempt to rhyme
“ brain ” with “ came ” and “ asleep ” with “ fame ” is too
Veckless. Things like that bring a man to a bad end....
Tertium Quid : “ Episode ”is too frowsy Tama Rama :
Verses throw no new light on a very grey-bearded sub-
ject M.A. : Declined. You can’t crowd life and
eternity into two verses... .Ben Alla : “ Sunset ’ is only
pretty album verse... .M.S.: “ Serenade ” and other sun-
dries declined..., Ivor Graeme : “ Delayed Return ” rather
commonplace.. ..A.E.: After some thinking “Difference
went among the goats.. ..Ibis : Certainly if accepted....
L S M. : Quite valueless....Tui: Turns upon a ridiculous
point.. ..Bertie D. : Life-like, but very crude.. ..R.H.P. :
Like the wool in question, there are too many burrs in
it Rel: Only one worth print Chas. E. : Big intro-
duction to very small joke.... Bush whacker: Not/good
enough but you are modest and sensible, and have plenty
of time to improve... .F. 8.: “ Wilga” is too scrappy and
incoherent.... Owen P.: Weak and undistinguished..
Dogberry: Lacks force and finish 11.E.R. : “Photo”
shows faulty work upon a good idea.... Ganger: The
ideas are too much huddled together for effect. Take a
long breath, and try again... .L.F.W.: Too wordy:, and
wobbly .Creed: It may be original, but it happened
before all the same.... Jack M‘K.: “Swagman’s Splilo-
quy ” over his deceased canine is a very ordinary wail....
J C. Brand: Hope to use shortly.... Major: About ten
people have sent along that yarn re edging round, the
column of caterpillars till they were travelling m a circle,
and not one waited to find out the ultimate result.
Decline to publish till the circular caterpillar becomes
more definite.... P. 8.: Not skilful enough... .Fool: [Well
what’s the good of having cheap goods if you haven t any
wages to buy anything with ? If Australia depended only
on what you call “ natural industries ” —on those that it
could carry on in competition with the cheapest labor on
earth—there would be precious few folk with wages
Show : Our regular Melbourne representative attends t,o
the picture shows... .Thurla: Certainly J. C. Watson is a
British citizen. He was born of Scottish parents at-. Va-
lparaiso on the voyage to Australia... . R.J.C. (S. Africa):
Thanks, but we find it hard to give much at tention to
S’Afriean affairs except where they directly touch on Aus-
tralia H.S.R. : The Bulletin allowed Cole to advertise
his Black Australia ideas to show their stupidity. Any
Black Australia advocate who writes on the subject with
the same pathetic indifference to common sense may have
space on the same terms. The enemies of White Aus-
tralia are not the enthusiasts who profess to love colored
folk as “bretbern”, but the liars “who believe in the
principle of a White Australia, but” Dogspike :
No need to bonus babies in Australia until we’ve tried
bonusing and protecting industries. When jobs are
plentiful babies won’t'be backward in coming D.SiC.:
What is your amateur artist’s address? Peter P.’: No ;
will take some action shortly W.F.W. :_The “animal
suicide ” season is 0ff.... Jeesiah (or something like that) :
Certainly Socialism as you define it—the absolute owner-
ship by the people at large of land and capital and all the
means of production —is good if the people elect rulers
■who make good use of them. Always put in that. The
privately-owned ironworks might make a profit for the
owner if he was the right kind of owner, even if the law
compelled him to pay his workers 60s. a week. The same
ironworks, owned by the State, if it was the wrong kind
of State, might divide all the profit among the workers
and give them only 30s. It is bosh to say that everybody
must be either for or against your brand of complete
Socialism without reservations. But monopolies which
give control over a whole community—such as the rail-
ways—should be in State hands whether the State makes
them pay or not. That is not merely a question of
profit, but of preventing the possibility of an unbearable
tyranny
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
C. M‘G.: Drawings very bad.... Austral: “Chevalier
d’lndustrie” sketch shows no promise H.C. (Castle-
maine): Merely a blob of fat Reips : Amazing animal
declined M.S.: “ Federal Situation” amusing, but idea
not new enough Donald : One or two may serve as
suggestions, but your style of art is very wild... .Rover:
Nob within miles.. . .Cyril D.: Very good for your age,
though not fit for publication Alfred I.: “Look Out”
is a contortion, rather than a picture W. Hess: If you
want payment, put your name and address on drawings.
We know everything in reason, but even we don’t know
everybody's number and street.


THE LAND AO ENT AND HIS FORTUNES.-FAREWELL
TO AUSTRALIA.
✓
•Ji 11
,*?
v.V’
When the news came that Mr. Willis had left Australia
the N.S.W. Cabinet was prostrated with grief.
not *• 60 that Mr.
Willis has abandoned his little co:itro-
versles with has antagonists. He is
now getting into condition.
. ' And perhaps be hopes to meet
Jonayne® in the wilds of Madagascar.
There have been some smafl fires in
the city lately ; but they will throw no
light on the Lands Inquiry.
The Lands Inquiry fees re-opened. There
is a dearth of interesting witnesses.
CONCERNING A LAND AGENT.


& c '’c>
‘tfJ
/\ girl ojp I2> Comnifted do. $t
Qzndigo t'ofor Aiy
he* toother Wom.fd nt~ t&P
ber sfret,d e* |>*rfy
I A TbotScrlvy bufclffr -
he be^ r
S CwsTotners "H)ro««l>
r S\lv^rrrjy 5 fanfare
\sc bairAngMiito ne\r
\ bis sljaf*-"
~ IJ
°tl**"th
f/ow l^ } let" out~
pl\j '#rtl) Jones oj you II be Sorry.
** } >u ,7 (-Washed blood)
"
(' be -tWj—' bUcK 1 + * J
In ltje Vic tyilK
6ill, Itje ob j«ct~
Kef>T m View«
bijber educarffow of- Ise
'fartnzr" , „
9
'ifooclc
Tbe lolite
\ been ordered +o
5 ?°sS'f>ing
| S^' o
f eyddress by fye',y
1 cbnstiVj »A>T,es vbife
Ov> IK beA+'s"
=r-' A | e
” tyde*' pM'se f
B ut~ wHy isnT your (?<lj>|np you ?
" OH! Jin? oof no -tine ,’ Es Sti.«fyi n ''
for'is' f/ed«carfon ) I _
fVsonSorry y OLk
L it- Service "rye fr? 1170
I-. +r,?':. r w ' re S"S *> hr
'Oln°kf!
-tUm off ‘trll every bloom',*? lUde Of
is sljnvaifed ut y O ,. Ve\ '
oj' overdoing Some.'tfrnes |'"
’The y did ittff
fTe sfavt« (n-L)-tb>ft j
Ui "ttje Condition |
In regard do rqai'tVitnftnaJ I
Avnorlc^
or A«.£*W‘V • J
“l e V,c RatiWdcj Cewmissiofjers
f roM -fresh
&, deserve f>it>hi-|c)Cs
(<
l ft
BF R£Sj><?cti,l)j£ V'/oro^
' r '. fW ! Wtj2,f~ fre y o u
oj
°n O
Qoock Good .
would
jH+o W*
0w.14 be.
s*\rcb Pisboj? C*rt
fiK Bcnt /
■- Let* iln iq \fb \ll ViotyP fete
fete Cftif’fefltfiy fl. oCof, frieob
Tflflrr*. pj - youn r—
COWS. FLOODS. SUICIDES, &c.


A. SAUNDERS FOR WEDDING PRESENTS.
OUR WEDDING PRESENT DEPARTMENT
IS A SPECIAL FEATURE.
• ' A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2 BAR BROOCH, Set Diamond and
2 Rubies or Sapphires, 255.
StSi
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Solid Silver, Handsomely Em-
bossed, comprising Nine Pieces, in Silk-Lined Case,
£3 10s. Other Styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Double
Buckle Ring’,
17s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 3°s.
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon
BROOCH,
Set Pearls and
Turquoise, £2 10s.
NICKEL,
20s
A. SAUNDERS.
Non-Magnebic, Strong, Reliable, Knockabout
WATCHES, Our “Unrivalled” Dust and Waterproof
Cases, 20s. London Lever, 255. Extra Quality, 355.
Cheaper Lines, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s. All guaranteed.
SILVER,
A. SAUNDERS.
ISrt. Gold Pure
Double Cut
Diamonds and
Sapphires,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O
SAUNDERS
loot. Gold Heart
Forget-Me-Not
BROOCH,
Set Pearls and
Turquoise, £2 25..
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2 Bar 2 Heart and Lover’s-.lvnot
Set Diamonds, £2, £2 10s.
BROOCH,
A. SAUNDERS. !
Combination SUPPER DISH, Biscuit Butter and
Cheese, with Servers, Pure Plated on NiekeJ Silver,
Satin Glass Lining:, £2 TOs, £3, £3 10s. Ih F anc J
Carlton China (without servers), 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s ba.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE,
Pure Silver-Plated,
Handsomely Engraved, 255.
Other Styles, 16s 6d,
20s, SOs, 355.
Mail Orders
Our Mail Order
Department
is under the special
supervision of the
head of the firm,
and orders entrusted
will receive the
same attention as
thougli you were here
to choose in person.
A. SAUNDERS.
CRYSTALITE SPECS., 3s Gd. PURE PEBBLE, 4s 6d, 7s Gd, 10s.
ENGLISH ROLLED GOLD, 12s 6d, 17s Gd, 235. SOLID GOLD, "Is, 30s, 355, 40s.
WeT ask you at your leisure to pay a visit to our Optical Rooms, and have
your Sight tested. Examination and Advice Free. If unable to call, write
for our HOME EYE-TEST CHART.’ We send it Post Free to any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR BUTTON BOX,
Pure Silver-Plated,
Satin Finish, 5s 6d.
)ther Styles, 4s 6d, 7s 6d
10s 6d.
Catalogue
We send our large
Illustrated Catalogue
to any address in
Australia, Post Free.
A Post Card will
bring you a copy.
Write at once.
We prepay postage
on all goods, with the
exception of large
Clocks and China.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Combination SHAVING . BRUSH and
SOAP-HOLDER, 15s Gd. Soap fits in handle.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval
LINKS, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Monograms, 2s extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
English Oal?
CRIBBAGE BOARD
and CARD BOX,
Pure Silver-Plated
Mounts, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold
Pearl Set
Crescent
PIN,
17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
Ruby or Amber Glass, 12s Gd.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 15s 6d,
17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cent’s Nickel SHAVING
COMPANION, 22s Cd.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 14s 6d, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Heart
and Dumbbell
LINKS, 12s Gd.
loot. Gold, 255.
Silver, 2s 6d, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIRBRUSH, Handsomely Em-
bossed, Extra Long White Hand-drawn Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
In Solid Nickel, 8s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel-Mounted TOBACCO JAR
and PIPE STAND, Oak Base, 20s.
Other Styles, 27s 6d, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set
Bird PIN, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
3 Bottle Luncheon
CRUET, Pure
Silver-Plated on
Nickel Silver, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d,
12s Gd, 15s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2 Bar Pearl Set SPRAY BROOCH,
17s 6d.
A Neat Design.
■p*, WIHCFIELD ROWDOTHAM & C?
B|SP
A. SAUNDERS.
Set of CARVERS, Best Sheffield Silver Steel
Securely Riveted Handles, 27s 6d. Other Styles ’
12s 6d, 355. 17s 6tL 20s, 255. ’
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PIN CHAIN
and CHARM, 7s 6d.
Smaller, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Diamond
and Sapphires
or Rubies, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold 5 Fine
Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £l5 10s.
Smaller, £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold 5 Fine
Opals, £2 10s.
Extra Quality
Opals, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Fashion, JAPANESE BAMBOO BRACELETS,
with Strong Safety Chain, £3.
Smaller, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
White or Coloured
Crvstal Glass
SPECIMEN TUBE,
Pure Silver-Mounted,
3s 6d Pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 2 Bar BROOCH,
Diamond and 4 Rubies in Centre, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG and TOAST RACK Combination,
Pure Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE,
Pure Silver-Plated,
Handsomely Embossed
and fluted £3.
Other styles, £2 ss, £2 10s
£3 10s, £4, £5, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
MUSTARD
POT and
SPOON, Pure
Silver-Plated,
7s 6d.
Salt and
Pepper to
Match,
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold
CREOLE
EARRINGS,
10s 6d, 12s 6d,
l'ss pair.
A. SATTNDERS.
TOILET POWDER or POMADE POT, Pure Silver
Mounts, Cherub Design, White Cut Glass, 5s 6d, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d.
Wf A. SAUNDERS. . W
Handsome Gilt BEDROOM CLOCK
Splendid Timepiece, 40s.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s Cd,
15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold One-Piece
COLLAR STUDS,
5s Cd, 6s 6d.
loct. Gold,
8s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather
PURSE and CARD CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 10s 6d.
Other Styles,
4s Gd, 5s Gd, Vs 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel-Mounted TOILET MIRROR,
Bevelled Glass, 6s 6d.
Other Styles, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s Cd, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
s®
6 *
*
A. SAUNDERS.
BABY CHARMER, Solid Silvei
4 Bell Rattle and Ivory
Teething Ring, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 7s 6d,
10s 3d, 12s 6d, 20s.
OPP. RAILWAY
STATION.
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-ST.,


I mini" l
IflllllllHlUl
■llflHUi
i'"": !!!J!-Mifnni»
lliiiiiiiu
lllli !llllll!!!lll!i
Ilium
Illiniiif
i i ii iiii
a
III! III!
Ii
"Miii
ilili'lll
1 '!■ Ill'-I
:■
jjppßMjj:
ALL’S WELL WITH YOU
If you hold a Life Assurance Policy effected with the CITIZENS’.
ALL’S WELL WITH THE COMPANY.
ITS POSITION TO-DAY IS IMPREGNABLE.
ITS STRENGTH IS AS THE STRENGTH OF GIBRALTAR.
ITS FUTURE PROSPECTS ARE BRILLIANT.
Write for Prospectus to . . .
CITIZENS’ LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, & Wellington (N,Z,)


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DAVID STORED. &> SONS’ ln Three Colors—BLACK, BED and BLUE.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
110 OOUVi
Is the ONLY Absolutely
I SfiFE Marking
OH
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
WATSON’S WHISK l r .
Resch’s Wavei’ley Bi*ewery, Agents.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
'guaranteed.
R.GENNERT, 89 C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
SEES
o-o to u&anesx-'n*-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if
you want real g-ood stamps, send to
FRED.
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizabeth St., SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
POLITICAL
POINTS
G. B. Edwards, M.H.R., is placing on the
business paper of the House of Reps, a Bill deal-
ing' with elective Ministries. His idea is to have
both Houses, sitting as a sort of committee, elect
the Cabinet direct by ballot.
-/..1 v,
goods is - promoted by the N.S. Wales
A.N.A., which has secured the Agricultural
Grounds for the display. The movement deserves
the sympathy of Australians. Mr. M. A. Martin,
134 Pitt-street, Sydney, is the secretary.
Sydney Telegraph on P. Fysh :
The empty talk of the urgency for buttressing a few
industries alyut Melbourne with more Protection made
no impressimi upon him.
Anyone who reads this weary hackneyed scoff
about “Melbourne” would think that Victoria
was the only place in Australia that had industries.
DISAPPOINTED IN MARRIAGE.
“Farley looks off-color since he got back from
Europe. Is it that girl of his! Has he been
disappointed in love ?”
“No, he married the girl.”
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers says darkly,
like the villain in the melodrama, that “a time
will yet come,” and that the papers which reveal
the gloomy and cavernous machinations of Bill
Lyne in the matter of providing a residence for the
Governor-General at Sydney will be laid onthe table
one of these days. There is a horrible tendency
to cheap shriek about Carruthers, and his half-
formed inclination to bathe in blood, or to expose
somebody in the fifth act, or to lay some blighting
document on the table, is suggestive of the small
boy’s book about pirates in top-boots. Sydney
Telegraph, which backs Carruthers in this
matter, says it doesn’t know what the horrid
secret is, but that the papers are of “considerable
importance,” that they were discovered in a
“peculiar manner” —doubtless in the haunted
chamber —and that Joey’s action will “ bring
things to a head.”
Mort’s Dock, Sydney, says that with a little
tariff help it can set 2000 men at work boat-build-
ing—about 1400 more than it now employs. That
is a direct challenge to the Australian Parliament
to promptly provide the tariff help.
The Maoriland Farmers’ Union, which has
taken the part of the sturdy beggar pleading for
the freehold with something like menaces is
rousing the Labor Unions to fury. The great
bulk of these farmers who are clamoring for
the freehold are the gentry who took up
on lease the lands which the Govern-
ment secured for them by the expro-
priation of the big landlords. Now the
Unions point out that in the first case
the resumption of large estates for closer
settlement was really a process of land
nationalisation for the whcle
people, and not for a section
of them. To buy land for-
cibly from the large free-
holder and give it to the
small freeholder would be a
hideous example of that “ class
legislation ” to oppose which the
Farmers’ Union exists.
The Maoriland Tory party, which was to
do such great things this session, broke its first
front tooth on Seddon’s armor last week, when it
mustered up 10 votes in the House of Representa-
tives against Seddon’s 53 on the Government pro-
posal to raise the old age pension to 10s. a week.
From the report of the recent Labor con-
ference
Mr. O’Malley, was a Protectionist, Dut was not
going to sacrifice such men as, for instance, Mr. Fowler,
to the fetish of fiscalism.
In other words, Mr. O’Malley reckons that Pro-
tection is good for Australia, but he prefers
Fowler to Australia.
N.S.W. Education Minister sensibly pro-
poses to make an effort to reduce the number of
schools without reducing the facilities for school-
ing, and thus enable a higher grade of education
to be given in more; centralised schools. Unfor-
tunately he cannot touch the most hopeless
schools, those in the far out-back, where the State
has to limp lamely, with an academy and a police
station, after the settlers forced out to the desert
by land monopoly on the coast. It is impossible
to centralise schools there; the only effective
reform is to bring the settlers in a body back to
the coast.
Ex-Australian, It. L. Outlrwaite,
who is to fight Joseph Chamberlain for
West Birmingham next British elections,
will hang: the issue of the fight on the
pro-Asiatic policy of Chamberlain ; and
on that issue Australian sympathy will
be with him.
S. M. Herald’s “On the Land”
column will yet land Granny on the rocks.
Scarcely an issue but an indignant con-
tributor beseeches the paper to insist on
the Government taking prompt action to
place some branch or other of private
enterprise under strict State supervision
and interference; and one country farmer
lately stated that the Butter Commission
revelations were enough to drive all the
people on the land into the ranks of the
Labor party.
Queensland Treasurer Kidston is
running the country on strict business
lines. He recently met r "a budget of
requests for money from local governing
bodies and others with the answer:
“ First pay up your arrears to the State,
and then 1 will talk to you.” At first the
local authorities held over the head of
the stout little Labor Treasurer the ter-
rors of political assassination ; now they
are beginning to see the wisdom of his
determined attitude, and many have
written to thank him for the good advice.
Councils that were adopting a policy of
drift have faced their liabilities, put on
a small extra rate, paid back loans owing
to the State, and secured fresh loans
for progressive works, the repayment of
which has been provided for by sinking
funds on Kidston’s model. If the Better-
ment Tax on unimproved land values
goes through in the coming session, Kid-
ston claims he can slay the deficit, and
keep it dead so long as he is in office. Of
course, if Philp comes back it will be
different. Philp could find a deficit on an
uninhabited island, and could get in debt
on an iceberg.
“Jack” Want, of N.S.W., states
that, during a recent visit to the North,
“he was forcibly struck with the sad
effects of Federation in Queensland.”
But just when Mr. Want might have
become interesting he stopped, and what
effects he alluded to are not explained.
It is true that Federation reduced Queens-
land’s Protective tariff, and thereby partly
wrecked Walker’s great iron foundry at
Maryborough, and many other indus-
tries ; but as Mr. Want says he is a Free-
trader, he can’t surely be alluding to that.
If he had had his way, there would never
have been any Walker’s iron foundry.
St. Kilda (Vic.) is beginning to wonder if
there is any connection between the fact that
politician George Turner is President of the St.
Kilda Yacht Club and the success so far of the
club’s impudent raid on a bit of public land. The
club first got a “permissive occupancy” of a
valuable bit of St. Kilda foreshore. Now it is
proposed that the land be vested in it for ever
without rent, and that the club seems pretty sure
of its ground is shown by the fact that it has put
up expensive buildings.
THIS MIGHT HAVE HAPPENED TO
AUSTRALIA.
SUVA, Monday.—Arrived : Manuka, R.M.S., from Syd-
ney via Brisbane ; Virawa, str., with 900 Indian immi-
grants from f ’ htjf Sailed : Manuka, R.M.S., for
Vancouver. ,
A proposal with a lot to be said in its
favor is before the Vic. Parliament on the motion
of Watt, M.L.A. —that all public pensioners
should be compelled to reside in the State from
which they draw their pensions. Such a provision
would aim one good blow at the absentee evil.
The Victorian old age pensioner has to spend his
7s. a week in Victoria ; and why shouldn't the old
left-off judge spend his thousand or two a year
there also ?
Mr. .Reid who, according to the chief
local Orange bigot, “has proved himself true to
the Orange cause at every turn,” is just now
engaged in brooding over the dying embers of his
anti-Socialism campaign, puffing out the while
quotations from the Pope against Socialism.
Just for the moment G. H. Reid almost loves the
Pope.
Prime Minister Deakin announces early
action to set up a land defence system for Australia
on the Swiss model—so often advocated by The
Bulletin. But possibly he will be wrecked
against the theory that compulsory training is an
outrage on the liberty of the subject. And about
that battleship, the two swift cruisers, and a few
torpedo boats ?
In spite of his bellowing, Victoria’s Thomas
Bent plods pretty steadily on the road to Progress
nowadays, and his feet can often be heard pound-
ing heavily on the up-grade. He is now building
a measure to carry out the Danish system of at
least tackling the outskirts of the unemployed
question by small settlements, with advances for
implements and stock, together with instruction
in the ways of making a living on the land, and
he is prepared to spend a whole £lOO,OOO on the
scheme. If Bent makes even a small success of
this attempt at solving a great problem, this paper
will forgive him some more of the hard things it
has said about him.
If it were not for the bad company he has
kept politically all his life, Victorian Premier
Bent might almost be accepted as a good Demo-
crat in his old age. The other day Boyd, M.L.A.,
whose coal mines are heavily subsidised by the
State, which carries the coal at an unpayable rate,
“offered his strenuous opposition to the State
brick works.” Then, “and to coal mines at
Korumburra ? ” suggested Bent. Boyd said
wildly, “ The Government never put one penny
into that industry,” and Bent became incoherent
in his denunciation: “Wh&t are you talking
about ? How much are you getting every week ?
. . . We will take bricks and coal together. . . .
You of all men ! Upon my word ! ” And Boyd,
the cadger, fled in dismay from the fat man’s
wrath.
A rather remarkable admission crept into
Melbourne Argus, in the shape of a quiet, little,
six-line paragraph, a few days ago. It was to the
effect that the Melbourne produce exporters who
have dealings with South Africa are now asking
the Government to certify to the quality of their
oats, chaff, onions, etc. More remarkable still,
these exporters are offering to pay the cost of this
supervision. And yet it is only a few months
since the Argus was exhausting its rather scant
vocabulary in condemnation of a Bill which pro-
vided for this very thing, and was declaring that
the trade could do far better if left alone.
On that occasion the Dairymen’s Association
waggled its long ears and brayed so furiously that
the Bill was lost. Now the Dairymen's Associa-
tion has apparently got its ears tangled in the
ti-tree outback ; at any rate, its bray has been
silent for some time.
“ G.H.” thinks he sees an analogy :
The political situation in Victoria reminds me of a
patch in disused Greek history. Mr. Pericles, Prime
Minister of Athens —a cold, iceberg-like, Irvine sort of
person—passed in his earthly resignation, and Cleon,
Esq., took his job. Cleon mended bellows, or ran a tan-
nery, or had some sort of connection with the leather
trade. He was popular wi th the crowd because he had a
larg'e, circular voice, which ran downhill with great
rapidity, and left a broad trail of promises behind it. The
fish-and-chips nation was much impressed by Cleon’s
opinion of himself, and gave him a free hand in the opera-
tions against Sphacteria. Sphacteria was a small island,
not half the size of an Australian deficit, off the Greek
coast, and the said island refused to be dragged into the
fried-fish League. Demosthenes, the David Gaunson
of the period, had been bowling blue-metal at the
Spbacts for years, but without doing any particular
damage. So Cleon loaded his voice into a large Athenian
dray and went down and bellowed at Sphacteria in person,
and the island surrendered immediately. This shows
what may be done by bellowing—sometimes.
M.L. Parliament had hardly hung up its-
coat this session when a petition was presented
demanding the cancellation of an the
Supreme Court to destroy the books of the defunct
Colonial Bank next November. In connection
with these books some purple yarns involving
politicians are afloat.
A further instalment of Bent and Swin--
burne’s Socialism is being thrust on the Victorian
farmer, per medium of the Dairy Bill. The
measure sets aside the municipal authorities-
altogether, and places all inspection of dairies,
butter factories, cow yards, etc., under Govern-
ment inspectors. All dairies are to be licensed,
and the fees are calculated to pay for the inspec-
tors —or instructors, for these gentlemen are in--
tended to educate and convince rather than inspect
and prosecute. They are to keep their eyes, not
only on cow-yards and sheds, dairies, amount of
preservatives and moisture in butter and so forth,
but also on diseases of cattle, breeding of stock,
and the maintaining of a regular supply of home-
grown fodder crops. The farmer is to be taught
and trained in the way he should go, and prose-
cuted when he won’t go.
Some items of evidence put before the-
N.S.W. Arbitration Court: —
The wages ot laborers in timber yards . . . lucky ones-
got 255. to 395. per week.
Some were not earning 10s. a week. Where 20 men
were wanted 100 applied.
If boy labor were reduced the local manufacturers
could not compete against imported doors and sashes.
In Queensland girls were employed.
It all resolves itself into a rule of three sum.
Either wages must be kept down so as to com-
pete with the cheapest foreigner and with the-
foreigner who works most economically through
having a large market secured to him and thus-
being able to carry on operations on a huge scale ;
or the foreign competitor must be shut out; or
the industry must die. No blinking of the fiscal
issue can alter that position.
Premier Butler, of South Aus., doesn't
know when he is dead. As soon as the Assembly
met, the other day, Price, leader of the Labor
party, fired a “sudden death” motion at him and
knocked out the long, lean derelict by 24 votes to
17. And still Butler didn’t resign. He had hung
on to office for weeks after being flattened
out in the elections; and he still hung on when
the House trampled on his remains. Price’s
“sudden death” motion, according to S. Austra-
lian practice, was that the House adjourn, which is
a brief way of taking the business out of the
Government’s hands ; and when the House did
adjourn Butler merely smiled and said that it
would suit him splendidly if Parliament adjourned
for 20 years. Yet Butler gets the support of the
people who talk most about “ Constooshnal
Guvment.”
The first questionable land transaction on
record in New South Wales : Governor King,
on the eve of his retirement, made a grant of what
is now Newtown—or the best part
of it—to his successor. Governor
Bligh. As soon as Bligh was in
office he made a grant of land
to Governor King. So both were
satisfied.
SUBJECT TO HALLTUCINATION.
REID : “ Ah, well, there’s an end of it. I’ve
killed it and buried it now.”
MRS. DAILY TELEGRAPH: “ Don’t be too certain,
George. Nobody else seems to think so.”
(Pause.) “ Perhaps—perhaps we only imagine
it! ”
Tasmania opened its State Parliament
with its finances in a dreadful state, and popula-
tion getting out of the island and over to the
mainland as fast as it can—just as it has been
doing for most of the last 40 years. The Gover-
nor’s speech said his Ex. was pleased to note that
the “staple industries” were prosperous. The
next clause said his Ex. was glad that the cow and
bull industry was prosperous. Next one said that
his Ex. was gratified to see that the agricultural
industry was prosperous. After that another
clause said that his Ex. was able to sleep better'
after noting that the mining industry was pro-
sperous. His Ex. then went on to say that it
warmed his heart to learn that the timber indus-
try was prosperous. Also, his Ex. was overjoyed
to hear that the fruit industry was prosperous.
And, finally, to make sure that nothing was for-
gotten, his Ex. said he was pleased right down to-
ll is boots to know that the hen industry was pro-
sperous. And his Ex. said nothing else worth
mentioning-
What is it banished coughs and colds ?
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure !
Equally good for the voting and old—
W bods’' Great Peppermint Cure ;
Better than plasters, drugs, or pills,
Killing the germs of a thousand ills,
Saving a fortune in doctors’ bills—
Woods’ Great Peppermint cure !*
THE CHAIN-B ANGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Speaking at Melbourne Trades Hall, Mr. Tom Mann
said he would resort to either Freetrade or Protection, or
both at once, in order to reach the goal of Labor. — Daily
Paper.
“ I’m anti-this, I’m anti-that ; but, all the same, I think
The things I curse are excellent politic food and drink.
Protection is a deadly thing—l advocate its use ;
Preetrade’s a splendid pestilence—l think I’ll let it loose.
I haven’t any policy that’s really definite—
I say that wrong’s the same as right, and argue black is
white.
I haven’t time to sort myself,” the prancing seer explains :
“ I’m far too busy whirling round and banging useless
chains.”
vio.
GRAST HKRVRY.


Palings Pianos
Sydney,Brisbane &- Newcastle.
Send for Catalogues-Post Free. Old Pianos taken in exchange.
Kasy Terms if you wish.
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd., 338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU ILL?
If so # . VITADATIO
Will Cure You.
Eminent doctors in England (although
unable to' prescribe Vitadatio through not
knowing its,constituents) have advised Mr.
b. A. Palmer to proclaim its virtues from the
housetops.
Catarrh of the Stomach
CURED BY
VITADATIO
Ten Years’ Intense Suffering.
Call and See Mrs. Cummins.
16 Vine-street, Redfern, N.S.W.
Dear Sir,—For ten years I have suffered from catarrh
of the stomach, suffering intense pain during the whole
time. Several times my life was despaired of, and at last
the doctor said he could do no more for me. At this
time I read your advertisement, and determined to give
Vitadatio a trial. The result has exceeded my greatest
anticipations. lam now fully recovered, and am in better
health than I have been for the past twelve years. I
earnestly recommend the medicine to similar sufferers.
You are at liberty to make What use you like of this, and
I shall feel a pleasure in answering - any questions re my
complaint.
Yours truly,
(Signed) ISABELLA CUMMINS.
For further particulars,
>V A. PALMEIi,
Head Office: 439 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S. W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
DENVER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
STAMP YOUR CLOTHING.
IHI
181
m.
Just the
very thing
you want—
A RUBBER
STAMP,
with y o u r
name in any
style of
type, to-
gether with
bottle of
INDELIBLE
MARKING
INK and
h andsome
self - inking-
„ T!lis Most Useful Outfit Posted
A n y whe e for 2/-, or 3 complete outfits for 5/-. If vou
would like the Stamp very fancy send 1/6 extra, and I will
send you a very elaborate stamp with beautiful border,
w th which you will be delighted.
A. «/. SMITH, Toowoomba, Queensland.
YOU CANNOT CUT YOURSELF WITH THE
Figaro Safety Razor
A HIGHEST-CLASS HOLLOW-GROUND RAZOR
WITH ATTACHABLE SAFETY GUARD.
Shaves Close and
Comfortably.
6/6
£®3S
mm
.
You can do with a shave less every week and
save five minutes off every shave.
JUST THE thing for a man in a hurry
Shave Yourself and run no risk of Barber’s Rash.
TVT ANY Safety Razors have been invented, but most of them
have failed when put to the practical test of daily use.
Some are too complicated, nearly all need very careful adjust-
ment, others are difficult to handle, and with most of the
safety attachments there is danger of spoiling the edge of the
razor. The Figaro Safety Razor has none of these objection-
able qualities. In the first place, it is an excellent razor of
the usual pattern that alone would be wonderfully cheap at
the price we charge for the complete outfit. It is full hollow-
ground and made of the highest quality of steel, specially
tempered to retain its keen edge. It is guaranteed ready for
immediate use without honing or stropping. If for any
reason you wish to use the Figaro Razor without the safety
guard, there is nothing to prevent you from doing so, and you
will find it as good as or better than the best razor you have
ever used. The patent Safety Guard fits upon the razor
without adjustment of any kind. It cannot be wrongly
attached. It can be fixed or taken off in one moment. The
guard does not cover or interfere with the edge, and thus
there is no risk of gapping or blunting the razor, as with
most safety attachments. When the guard is in position, you
can shave with the greatest freedom and confidence, up
or down, backward or forward, even in a dim light, and get
through so quickly and comfortably that shaving is a plea-
sure, and not an irksome duty. Even if you have never
shaved yourself before, you will have no trouble in managing
the Figaro Safety Razor. One of our customers assures us
that, since using the Figaro Safety Razor, he can shave so
close he can do with two shaves a week, whereas previously
he had to shave three or four times, and he states that he
saves quite five minutes on each shave. The Figaro Safety
Razor is the very thing for those who have to shave in
the shortest possible time. For those who dislike having a
rough, bristly face, the Figaro Safety Razor can be depended
upon to shave closer than the most expert barber, for you
can “ bear on ” the Figaro as heavily as you please without
fear of cutting the skin. The Figaro Razor and Safety Guard
are packed in a strong case, with separate compartments for
each piece, and with full directions for use. The price is only
6s. 6d. complete and carriage paid to any address. By shaving
yourself you will avoid all risk of Barber’s Rash and save the
cost of the outfit in a couple of months, with each order
received within two months from the date of this paper wo
will present a large cake of the Finest American Witch-
Hazel Antiseptic Shaving Soap, that makes shaving a
luxurious enjoyment. You should order at once and must
mention this paper to avoid disappointment. Obtainable
only from
The Union Rflfg, & Agency Go.
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
-
EOS
'
IE KODAKS.
Any z?cbmmt<y at <ilrl nmkv (stew Pietists v*UH u ps><vmm
BAKER&ROUSE Prop. Ltd.
Sole Australian Agent's for all
s Kodak Goods.


Wdt 0 8 e hot 1 Wi ”o 0 „Tv 0 i ? St Melb0 ™ e
i * people in permanent
Wd 0 and ei^ aCC ° mm0dated -” The lad y of th «
board and iodgmg occupafaon has a hard row to
hoe b attling m the kitchen w . th the
making war on the back step with the man who
brings the lump of gristle and swears it is blef
rroundmg the defaulting boarder in the hall’
"nd^^^i 116 l an - dl ° rd at ‘he fronSdool 1 ’-
und it is no wonder she is moved at last to Dut nn
hostile notices like the above. P P
Shipping.
line!
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. £16 to -P^9
CAPETOWN and NATAL ” £J3 13s to £31 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £115.
'Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
•For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
-111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
'—Til 15-^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
M utua) Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices * • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.O., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,2J0.
Policies issued 98,461— assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Uneondi 1 onal, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.I.A., General Manager.
™ E QueensM fjationa! pnk,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £SOO,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,228 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 42,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. Y. RALSTON.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J TjIMITKI). “
■ CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,539
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,812
, RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 64,00C
£697,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
' Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
. 16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
If Phe Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
.'Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS,Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Uo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ... ... £1709,000
* Capital Paid-up ... ...£100,000
- Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 100 ... £350.000
Haul: of Neiv South Wales,
Established 1817.
: Head Office-GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
;• Paid-up Capital
! Reserve Fund.. .. .. ..
i Reserve Liability of Proprietors ..
2,000,000 0 o
1.400,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total .. 5,400,000 0 0
Directors :
’ Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, ICt., M.L.C., President.
; Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
; Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie. Esci.
The Hon. Chas. K. Maceellar, M.L.C.
Auditors:
. Harrington Palmer, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
Loudon Office—Old Broad Street.
' With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
- out Tasmania, the United' Kingdom, Europe, India,
- China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
: States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
rfor its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
- panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
' Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
! Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
'Circular Notes negotiable throughout the wo: Id.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
PLEASURE * PROFIT.
Cyphers Incubators.
THESE world-renowned INCUBATORS are worked on
a new principle. The Regulator is simply perfect,
■and cannot get out of order. Being worked on the Hot
Air principle, they have no tanks to leak. They are self-
ventilated, and are fully guaranteed to bring out lively
and healthy chicks and ducklings. Send for circular.
J. & A. BOYES, iSSS*
241-243 Elizabeth-street, flelbourne
Silippin:
N. ID. L.
(N ORD-DE UTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
Gibr a fa F ;TonH S ™<> KKD *> Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
vriDraitai. London, Antwern and Rrpmnn W/»
Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
E™™ SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
•WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. sth AUGUST.
(Calling at Samarai).
*PR!N Z WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 2nd SEPTEMBER.
PRINZ SICISMUMD, 3300 tons.. 30th SEPTEMBER.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
m Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Produoor.
Capiliarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, ICs. 6d.
SOLH AUKNTS.
m
Th* lUtulU
CRAIG & AITK E I s !. N.S.VV. Barber’s Supplj
House, 654 CEORCE STREET, SYQiJEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, <fcc., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LIME.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about
11th AUGUST,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC,
and SUE VIC to follow.
FAliES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
OC3SA.WIC S.S. Co. A. and A.. LIHTE.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. VENTURA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, JULY 31.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., <fcc.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
SWT* CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER I’ITT AND BRIDGE STREETS. SYDNEY.
THROUGH
PICTURESQUE
—• = ISLANDS.
To Singapore, via the Dutch East Indies ! The sister ships
Airlie and Guthrie (2338 tons) leave Sydney alternately every
month on regular cruises through these tropical seas. These
steamers are fitted with the latest electrical and cold storage
conveniences, thus ensuring tourists the utmost comfort
throughout the tour. The round trip occupies 52 days, and
costs £4O. For full information of the above, or shorter trips,
call or write to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
Banking. Public Companies. &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
$
&
WE
BIX.Z.S
PXSCOUWTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
HXT.S.’W.
IfloDt de pete Co.,ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74: CASTLEEEAGrH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Xitd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mkicks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M ‘Fardanb ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth. A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J, ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Goflins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP A 90.000 0 0
RESERVE FUND and UNDIVIDED
PROFITS (used in Company’s business) £15,122 8 1
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Managei
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building’s, Georg's Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(<N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Softs! Capital
. £2,000,000
OCEAN
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
EXCURSION
to CANADA
“AORANGI,
7th August.
99
WHITE FOR PARTICULARS.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest- pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), The Three Donkies (a good joke), the Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character —
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED*
(Established 1879.)
Head Office— HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Sblpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian!
Yiotorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Innamincka, Friday
July 28.
S.S. Kanowna, Wednesday,
August 2.
BRISBANE, 'i
MACKAY, |
TOWNSVILLE, |
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Allinga, Friday, July 28
S.S. Wollowra, August 5.
liest and Cheapest Uoute to <J old fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELUOUBNE, ADE*
LA IDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows: ■
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, lnoia, Cnina
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
In landing ami passing their luggage through the Customs*,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Officer
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. BY THE .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CON VENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding: Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arrang:ed-
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
Jlodern Appointments. moderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort/ and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon3field Parade.
ST. HILDA.
THE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
IA/IM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
ww Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 30 J
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.


FIRST PRIZE
.. ..IN THE....
8-hour^-
ART UNION.
WHO WANTS IT?
£5OO for Is.
SECOND PRIZE, value .£lOO
THIRD „ „ .£6O
and 200 other Valuable Prizes. Total
Value, £l5OO.
DRAWN, OCTOBER 28th.
Someone's Sure to Win.
Buy Your Tickets Early.
Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper
on 2nd November, 1905.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all
Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
ROTHWELL’S
Only Address: EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
The Best Value 8 6 TERAI HAT
in the Commonwealth. 9/6 post paid. All Shades.
BRISBANE’S BIG HAT STORE. [2
&lUM6
M
'r*
THE BALLET GIRL
Htr Thestrical and
Domestic History.
Poet Frse, le
The Life, Adventures
and ConfesssioM of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Fret, la.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
AUSTRALIAN NATIVES’ ASSOCIATION^2—
Exhibition of Australian manufactures and products
Exhibitors should make early application for space to
the Organising Secretary, 134 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
DECEMBER, 1905.
Telephone 1499.
NICOLE UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records
will fit any and every disc talking machine. ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPHONES
Two Spscial instruments^
“ The Colonial ” and
“ The New Standard.”
pF* ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application. “WI
W. G. KING, Sole Agent, 316 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
was the first man for a time.
Argus Sauce
is the first sauce for all time.
If you haven’t tasted it, you
don’t know how nice it is.
A little Arg’us Sauce
with a chop would almost
make you eat the bone.
Send for FREE SAMPLE
to —
BLOGG BROS.,
24-38 Spencer St., Melbourne.
MAKES me SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
tite
ATTACK
of
&
■&
fin
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6,
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Asrents— Ellioit Bros.. Sydney; Felion, GrSmvmde & Co., Melbourne.
HARDY’S
700 Prizes.
Tl NTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.
SOLD
BY
ns
II
i V
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting - subjects concerning mar-
riage, which mates it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good 'Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Be ok of Strength, 3s posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybooii, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Lri'E of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
AH these prices Past Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, ©e~ Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my.......
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Advice to Wome#,' is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog- Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d pest. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Trig: s
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
A Startling Discovery that will Revolu-
lutioni.se the Physical Condition
of Mankind.
Why remain Short anti Stunted
when you may Learn Free the
Secret of How to Grow Tall ?
No Hatter How Short You Are or What
Your Age, You Can Increase
Your Height.
No new discovery has attracted more attention
m the scientific world than that made by K. Leo
Minges, of Brighton, N.Y. Mr. Minges is to
short men and women what the great wizard,
Edison, is to electricity. He has gathered more
information relative to bone, muscle and sinew
than any one else in existence. Making people
grow tall has been a hobby with Mr. Minges for
years, and the results he has accomplished are
startling to a high degree. By his method every
man or woman not over 50 years of age can be
made to grow from two to five inches in height,
and any one older than that may increase his
height perceptibly. His method has the endorse-
ment of leading physicians, and several prominent
educational institutions have adopted it for the
better physical development of their pupils.
If you would like to increase your height you
should read the book which tells how this re-
markable discovery was made and reveals to you
the secrets how to grow tall. It is free. You are not
asked to spend a single cent, and if you desire it
we will send you the statements of hundreds who
have grown from two to five inches in height by
following this method. The results are quickly
accomplished. Many have grown as much as
three inches in two months. There is no incon-
venience, no drugs or medicines, no operation.
Merely the application of a scientific principle in
a perfectly hygienic and harmless way. Your
most intimate friends need not know what you
are doing. All communications will be sent in
plain envelopes. The book, “How to Grow
Tall,” contains illustrations that will interest and
instruct anyone. One thousand of these books
will be given away absolutely free, postage pre-
paid, while the present edition lasts. If jou want
to grow tall, write to,day, in strictest confidence,
for a free copy. Address The Cartilage Co.,
Dept. 52C., Brighton, N.Y., U.S.A.
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’
Balsarci'Aniseed
'COUGHS
GOLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHfiTIS^
Safe fey Children.
Fop
L’S\
"seed
ris^
TRADE
MARK
all Chemists & Stores. Be sure
get Powell's with above
Trade Mark.
“It is able to support
Life.”— Lancet.
ONE CUP OF
PLASMON
t COCOA
Contains lr ere nourishment than
cups of any ordinary cocoa.
Absolutely free fro?n
Chemicals,
DEAFNESS CURED,
THE AUROPHONE s
the latest and most
Scientific Discovery for
the RELIEF and CURE of DEAFNESS and HEAD
NOISES. Descriptive Pamphlet sent Free. Address :
THE AUROPHONE CO.,
14 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.


A good measure for Victoria is Swinburne’s
Water Bill. So good indeed that it at once
suggests it’s author’s acquaintance with the fact
that D.C.L. Whisky, taken in good measure,
produces as energising an influence upon the
human mind as irrigation upon the dry areas of the
earth. And the mellow purity of D.C.L. is such
that, like Mr. Swinburne’s bill it should not be
watered down to the degree where compromise
nullifies usefulness.®
Nervous Headache.
Throbbing, Racking Pain in the Temples
Cubed by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
They Get at the Cause.
That excruciating pain in the top of the head, a
burning sensation and feeling as if a weight was
pressing upon your brain, is generally caused by
the inaction of the kidneys. The blood is over-
charged with impurities which the kidneys fail to
filter. This tends to increase the temperature of
the blood, which, carried to the brain, has a
serious effect upon the nerves. The pulse beats
harder and faster, and every throb is like a sledge-
hammer, and your head is ready to burst. You
are prostrated. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
will afford you almost instant relief. They get to
work at the cause of the headache and strengthen
the kidneys to double their energies. The urinary
organs, which have been clogged, are opened, and
the impurities pass freely from the body. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a permanent cure
for all diseases arising from a disordered condition
of the stomach, liver and kidneys. They purify
the blood and make it rich and red, and are a
positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, headaches, sallow complexion, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.
Packed in amber bottles, and sold throughout
Australasia*
Griffith and Allan, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a brand of their business in
Melbourne—(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS-
dea . d s P ort > there is an enormous
4V.K U ? lnfc erest taken in the corpse. From Ryde to
SatS?, Vd . the stiQres of the Parramatta Ri/e? on
Saturday, when Stanbury rowed Towns for the champion-
• ''Ti re . ' lr ! ed „ with , an excited multitude. At
Gladesville the land was black with people, and the river
was decked over with boats. The big North Shore ferry-
boats took lip huge crowds and heeled over to an amazing
angle, and the people on the lower decks stood up to
their ankles in water while they cheered as the two out-
went.by. Barring the funnels the boats could
not be seen for the folk who clung to the sides and
swarmed over the roofs like monkeys over a cocoa-
nut shed. Far up on the hill hats were waving in
the sunlight, and faint cheers came from as far
away as Goulburn—or thereabouts. The people who
barracked for Towns never lost faith in their champion
“ IU last, and when Stanbury appeared in the
lead they cheered wildly and said it was all right
George was holding him nicely, and would come with a
wonder-burst of speed in the last half-mile. “Good old
George ! ” they yelled affectionately to the man who
carried their money. Lower down they were a little
anxious. They hoped George wouldn’t let him go too
* ar "'as dangerous to hold any man too cheap ; and
they stopped talking to shout “Shake it up, George!”
Another hundred,yards and they were desperate. They
hurled frantic requests to “George” not to “ chuck the
blooming race away ” through foolishness, but to shake it
up and get in front. When, with a tremendous effort,
Towns did commence to reduce the distance, they cheered
wildly: “ He’s coming ! he’s coming ! My gawd, he’s
cornin’ But the big fellow bent down and lifted his
shell through the water, and Towns’ effort was hopeless.
They shot past the judge’s boat what seemed to this
writer nearly four lengths apart. Then the men who had
howled for Towns stood silent, their hands stole up to
where they carried Towns’ colors, and as the defeated
champion rented his head on his arms his barrackers were
silently dropping his symbol overboard. Five minutes
later, writer couldn’t see a bit of Towns’ ribbon in the
multitude, while the red-and-white was everywhere.
It certainly seemed that Towns was not in
perfect condition, or lacked strength and driving power
compared to Stanbury. If there is anything in the
generally accepted time it was a fast race ; but at no part
of the contest did Stanbury seem to be pushed, and it
never struck this writer that they were making speed.
The fact that Stanbury went to the front early and stayed
there the whole way was probably what robbed the race
of spectacular excitement. It was a well-rowed contest,
but it did not strike one as a struggle between giants.
There is no doubt that Towns held his opponent too
cheaply. Stanbury settled down to nine months’ hard
work and heavy training, and Towns went on with his
usual avocation, and indulged practically in only a few
weeks’ preparation. The man who did the hardest work
won the laurels, but, owing to Towns’ keen business
arrangement, the defeated man takes the lion’s share of
the proceeds. Stanbury will have to drive the same sort
of bargain with the next man who rows him, in order to
make money out of the business—although, with such
enormous crowds as on Saturday, even the jackal’s share
of the loot is not despicable.
It has been written that Towns never had a
hope after they passed Uhr’s Point. This is not correct.
Towns came very near to winning the race right on the
post, as it were, and the championship of the world was
nearly decided by the evil influences of Drink. As Stan-
bury almost lifted his shell out of the water when he saw
Towns making his final spurt, the nose of his boat
crashed into one dead marine and his scull struck another.
From a distance it must have looked as though he had
caught a crab. He lost his stroke, he rocked, slowed
down, and it appeared almost certain that he would go
right over. Then he recovered himself, and only a
champion could have got going again the way he did.
* * * *
Michael Rush, who umpired Saturday’s race,
did some fine sculling work a quarter of a century ago.
In 1877 he raced Trickett on the Parramatta for the
championship of Australia. It was in that race that the
sliding-seat was first used in Australian waters. Ned
Trickett had brought the idea from England, and turned
it to use in his contest with Rush. As he won the race,
sliding-seats became all the go, though they were rude
things compared with the seats of to-day.
Hr -k * *
Prices charged by the Bronzewing, Cobar and
Kirribilli to see the Towns-Stanbury procession, £1 and
10s. per head. Good old Private Enterprise ! Only a few
weeks ago one of the big ferry shareholders stated, with
tears in his eyes, that the company had the public’s wel-
fare at heart. How much does the hard-up N.S.W.
Government get for the use of its river ?
* ♦ * *
The value of a name ! A Bulletin man
went up the Parramatta last week to have a glimpse
of Towns and Stanbury training. The steamer was
crowded with enthusiastic oarsmen and humbugs.
At Glladesville two scullers shot out from behind the
wharf and started down the stream together. Loud
cheers went up from the crowded decks, and enthusiasts
stood on the railings and whooped and waved wildly.
“ Good old Jim ! ” said one in the affectionate tone of a
long-lost brother, glancing towards where the bigger man
of the two had shot across to the other side of
the river. “It ain’t Jim, you fool —it’s Towns ! ” snorted
a man who held a cigarette in one hand and waved his hat
with the other. “It is Jim ; I know him by his long, sweep-
ing stroke” (fiercely). “Nothing in the world like it—
lovely stroke,” he went on, reflectively. “ I tell you it
ain’t Jim Stanbury, an’ I don’t believe it’s Towns either ;
but, anyhow, it ain’t Jim,” snarled the other. “ Oh, go
and talk to the children. I oughter know Jim. Why, I’d
know his stroke anywhere—’mong a million on ’em. Why
—Hell!—no, it ain’t Jim ! ” he gasped suddenly as the
tall sculler caught a basket of crayfish and went right
over. Five minutes later the real champions came along
and diverted attention from the man who could pick out
Stanbury’s stroke among a million.
* * * *
The defeat of the Otago University team by
that of Sydney Alma Mater was a very unexpected
development. The Otago men were not prepared for such
excellent line kicking and sustained passing, and the
prompt way the Sydney pack got down on their attempts
to pass prevented the Otago machine getting really to
work. The result was that a strenuous first half ended
with Sydney Uni. nine points to Otago’s five. In the
second half the Otago boys showed some beautiful
forcing, but compensated for it by dribbling in a
bewildering manner. The game grew faster every few
minutes of the second half, and the Sydney crowd showed
an unexpected combination among the backs. But the
M. youths got their backs going also, and Otago were
scoring fast when time ran out, and the game ended with
Sydney Uni. leading by two points—l 4 to 12. The
Maorilanders started for home that very night. Their
invasion had been a failure, the match against Sydney
Uni. the previous Wednesday resulting in victory for the
Cornstalks by 16 to 13. Altogether the Kangaroo is •
feeling pretty well satisfied.
* * * *
The Maorilander Soccer Jplayers left Sydney for
home in company with the defeated ftugbyites from
Otago University' on Saturday night. The team had
played altogether 11 matches, won 6, lost 3, and drawn
2. Of the three inter-State matches, Maoriland and
N. each won one, and the odd one (Saturday’s) was a
draw—one goal each, secured by desperate fighting,
which shows that the teams were remarkably
well matched. The general result has been to
largely increase the interest taken in the British Asso-
ciation game, which is the prettiest of all forms of football
to watch. What makes it doubly so here is that the
Soccer men have a higher standard of play than any other
footballers in Sydney at the present time, and the man
who goes out to Epping can always be certain that he is
going to see two teams play the game as it ought to be
,
On Saturday the Rugby premiership resumed
its interrupted course in Sydney. The exciting game of
the day was that between Newtown and Sydney at the
Agricultural Ground. Sydney, having won the toss, took
the aid of the wind ; nevertheless the Newtowners made
things very lively at the start and kept the leather in
Sydney’s backyard for quite a time. Then the City pulled
itself together and dribbled right over the Newtown line.
Scoring was prevented by a prompt and skilful force. But
the kick-off found Newtown in difficulties again. Half
time found Sydney points to Newtown’s nil. The
second spell was fast from the jump. Newtown converted
a couple of tries, and its barrackers made strange dis-
arrangements of sounds in their glee. A passing charge
saw Newtown score again, but the shot at goal missed.
Sydney suddenly attacked, and with a splendid passing
charge scored another try. Dead silence while Warton
aimed at the goal, and lost it, and Newtown was still
ahead by one point. Just on the tick of time the suburb
scored again and kicked the goal just as the whistle blew.
Newtown won by 18 to 12, yet it was anybody’s game
right up to the last four minutes.
* * * ■*
With the exception of the Newtown-Sydney
match, Saturday’s Rugby was of the dreary sort. The
result of the shuffle was to keep Glebe at the head of the
list with 16 points, South Sydney second with 15 points,
and Newtown and Western Suburbs level with 14 points
each. University, last year’s premiers, are fourth on the
list with 13 points. South Sydney failed to show anything
like its recent form in the drawn match with Western
Suburbs, and the leather was badly mishandled by both
crow 7 ds. It is not often Sydney sees two draw's on one
afternoon, but Balmain and Eastern Suburbs made the
second one with six points each. Glebe downed North
Sydney by 17 to 8, but it was a tired sort of a match.
Apparently that drawn game against N.S.W.,
or something, has alarmed Maoriland Rugby Union, and
an additional pair of players will be added to the 25 ori-
ginally chosen for the descent on the Motherland.
Whether the addition will make for increased efficiency is
doubtful, but there is no show of suspicion that it will
not increase the bill considerably. But Maoriland takes
its football very seriously, and it is better that the State
should have to be appealed to than the success of the tour
be endangered in any way. Exactly what will happen if
that crowd of footballers gets dished by the Englishmen
is just too horrible to think of. Chaka, the Zulu Napo-
leon, used to butcher troops that returned after a defeat.
Maoriland will probably drop its team into a geyser.
Those minions of the High Grods who irrigate
seem to envy the joyous crowds that watch Victorian
football. Last Saturday, after seducing thousands to roll
up to the different games by fine, bracing weather, they
opened the overflow pipes at half-time, and thence-
forward damp, disgusted, and muddy spectators stolidly
watched two score moist and dishevelled players slipping
all ways and trying to grab a greasy ball to a general
chorus of “ Damn.” The once all-conquering Fitzroy
continued its dowmvard course, and has now three
defeats to its discredit—Carlton accounting for the
latest by 41 points to 39. Somehow ’Roy’s defeats seem
to be a cause of general mirth, its seven victories right off
the reel having caused the team to develop that swelled
head that goeth before a precipice. Colling wood
still piles up the interest on its mortgage on the
premiership, putting down Melbourne by 74 to 41. Closest
game of the day was between “Sowth”and Essendon,
a rough, unmannerly scramble from start to finish, leaving
“ Skinner’s hirelings,” as the South team is called, victors
by 1 point only—7 goals 8 beliinds to 6 goals 13 behinds.
It was a great scrap, and, in spite of rain and slush, spec-
tators were sorry when the bell rang—all but a few over-
hasty barrackers who had acquired black eyes in the
course of ill-advised arguments. In the Association,
West Melbourne, Williamstown and North still lead, equal;
while Richmond and Ports have a chance— viz., Buckley’s.
A pleasing innovation at some of the Association matches
was the institution, as a sort of appetiser, of a game
between State School teams, in place of the weariful,
incomprehensible baseball match. As a rule, the little
nippers play a fair, manly game.
* * » *
Under Australian rules the Y.M.C.A. no longer
leads the van, Sydney having won to that proud place
with 20 competition points on its banner. Newtown and
Y.M.C.A. march side by side behind with 18 to their
credit. Redfern, Balmain, and Paddington are just
visible through the dust on the horizon with 12 each, and
North Sydney and East Sydney are invisible, owing to
the rotundity of the earth, with 10 each. Sydney downed
Redfern by" 53 to 28, and Paddington piled up 46
points to East Sydney’s 28. Newtown’s defeat of
North Shore was very crushing—lls to 50 points.
But the surprise of the day was when Balmain, after
a gruelling game, beat the redoubtable Y.M.C.A. by six
points. The scoring was, Balmain 6 goals 11 behinds,
Y.M.C.A. 6 goals 5 behinds—47 to 41 points. It was
a very fast game, and had the secretary only got on
top of an adjacent roof and held up his hands like
Joshua used to, it might have turned the balance in
favor of the Good Young Men.
* * * *
“Yes,” said the Maorilander as he stepped on
board his red-funnelled steamer bound for his volcano, “your
beastly footballers are going to swoop down on us while
the flower of our crowd is battling in dear old Hingland.
I always was against this policy of foreign aggression ! But
you won’t have any walk over, my word ! ”
* * * *
At an Adelaide football match, the other day,
an aged barracker gave one last, excited yell and quietly
expired. There was no doctor handy, so one of the
players (a medical student) was called off the field. After
performing the unpleasant duty of pronouncing life ex-
tinct he returned to his occupation of goal-kicking.
• * * *
W. J. Bancroft, the great Welsh full-back,
retiring from Rugby football at the age of 30, has re-
ceived a £322 purse from his admirers. He has played in
international matches 33 times, 12 of them as captain.
Statisticians say that he has dropped 45 goals during his
career, kicked 29 from penalty kicks, and “ converted ”
374 tries ; also, in spite of his position in the field, he has
put in 31 tries on his own account.
* « •* *
A good many Australians will say “ditto” to
the remarks of a cockney cricket reporter (London
Referee) on the fast bowling in the first Test. “ I hope
we shall see no more of the monstrous style of bowling
adopted by Cotter on Monday, and rather feebly imitated
later in the day by Jessop. To deliberately pitch half-
way, with no other object than to frighten the batsmen
by making the ball go over their heads, is emphatically
not cricket.”
/ » » *
The idea of throwing out the amateur athletes
who act as journalists is receiving attention on the part
of the English sporting bodies, and it is proposed that all
such scribblers should be branded “ professional.” The
section of the press that depends upon this curious hybrid
for its reports of tours and tests is kicking wildly. The
proposal will make no difference to the Australian
cricketers, they being already regarded as professionals.
The Australian doesn’t care what you call him so long as
the gate receipts are large.
■* . * * *
In the test matches Jackson has won all four
tosses —thus giving to England each time the advantage
of batting first on the good wickets.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association has altered the
mode of allotting Sydney first-grade competition points
for the coming season, in future 2 points will count for
a first innings win, 3 for a win outright ; 2 points de-
ducted for a first innings loss, 3 for a loss outright ; tie to
count 1 point each. The idea is to encourage fast cricket,
and do away with the dreariness which hangs to compe-
tition matches.
JAMES STANBURY,
Champion Sculler of the World.
It was the reputation of the N.S.W. Minis-
try as a crowd which can be bustled that brought
the recalcitrant Sydney bookmakers down on the
bendable portion of their front pants. Ever since
the strike of Messrs. Ikev, Pearlstein and Goldbug there
have been strange rumblings, which indicated that a
tremendous amount of underground engineering was going
on. Then a whisper completed the debacle, for someone
breathed into the ear of Israel that if the bookmakers did
not register promptly with the A.J.O. at the in-
creased rates a Bill to introduce the Totalisator
would be introduced and rushed through the
Assembly in one nig'ht, and that its passage through the
Council was greased and ready. The House of Noses im-
mediately decided that it would not fight the A.J.O.
“ just now,” and it proposed that a conference of book-
makers and suburban racing club's should fix the fee for
suburban courses. The bookmaker’s cup of affliction is
not only full, but flowing over, and, like the widow’s
cruse, there seems to be no end of it. On Monday last,
when he resumed operations and loudly intimated that he
was quite ready for any flies that wanted web accommoda-
tion, the flies stayed away very badly, and refused most
tempting doubles. On top of all, came the crushing
announcement that the V.R.C. had decided to raise the
paddock-fee at Flemington from £25 to £lOO. Evidently
the winter is only just beginning 1
The Caulfield Cup handicapper has made
generous allowance for the fact that Oxenham’s mare,
Acrasia, is not as young as she was. The mare ran second
to Murmur last year with 7.7 on her back, and this time
she is asked to carry only 71b. more, whereas she has been
raised 131 b. for her victory in the Melbourne Cup. On
paper Acrasia has a taking chance for either Cup—
especially the Caulfield—although she is now in her
eighth year.
* * * *
Quo Yadis, still a young horse, as jumpers go,
is kindly treated with 10.5 in the Caulfield G.N. Hurdle.
He went amiss on the'morning of the V.R.C. event, and
was scratched, but his subsequent track work suggests
that he will be all right at Caulfield.
t * « *
The prospect that betting on racecourses will be
absolutely suppressed in France by September Ist is
nothing for Australian anti-gambling brigades to go
hilarious over. It simply means that the Pari Mutuel
will take the place of the person with the raucous voice,
the pencil and the bag. The bookmaker on Australian
courses would have been a very small creature long' ago
had not the local anti-gambling crowd fought so viciously
against legalising the totalisator.
* * * *
Ikey Mo. is at his old games. Published in
several Sydney papers during past week that last Caul-
field Cup winner, Murmur, was backed for this year’s
Caulfield Cup (three months ahead) to win £lO,OOO. The
bait won’t tempt shrewd people, who are not likely to
forget that Murmur went wrong soon after his Caulfield
Cup triumph, and was put out of work for six months.
* * * *
First May (verging on eight years old), who won
big event at Canterbury Park, last Saturday, has been a
slave ever since she was able to race at all, and thrives on
it. Since her first appearance (as a three-year-old), she,
up to the beginning of this season, started 120 times for
23 wins, and is shaping better now than ever.
* * » *
Nordenfeldt’s nag, Stepniak, tops the list of
M.L.’s winning sires this season with 36 winners of money
totalling £8785. Seaton Delaval is second; his get
gathered £6613.
* * * *
Queensland and Soustralia continue to find
horse-racing unprofitable, Q.T.O. reporting no increase,
and S.A.T.C. howling over a loss of £791.
* * * *
O. A. Jeffries writes : Since the publication of
my true, faithful, entirely unexaggerated account of how
my bike bolted down the Horse Range, outside Palmerston
South, Maoriland, I have received several letters which
insinuate in a courteous manner that, had I not been
something' between an idiot and a horse-thief, I would
have avoided all those thrills by sticking my toe into the
front forks over the top of the wheel and stopping the
machine. Well, first of all, I didn’t want to stop—l
wanted the copy. Secondly, if I had, I couldn’t have
done so, for that runaway took place in the days of solid
tyres, and my bike, being a semi-racer, had so narrow a
rim that no ordinary toe—although mine is a narrow,
aristocratic toe —could be inserted between the forks.
Moreover, the machine was a fancy model, and the fork
was out of reach of my toe if I could have got it in, owing
to the shape of the body of the machine. Further, had I
got it in, in spite of all these impossibilities, the hard
rubber tyre and bevelled steel rim would have taken my
toe off ; I tried to rest the soles of my shoes against the
wheel below the fork, and nearly lost the thumbs off both
feet by cutting and burning. I have ridden almost every
model of bicycle that has been made, and I have always
found that a band brake, if properly screwed up and
adjusted, will hold any bike on any slope. But once it
gives way, “ it’s all out.” Mine gave way, and I’m still
here, owing to having banged Macpherson. There was no
necessity to cart brushwood and a length of cord out to the
Horse Range when I had Macpherson there to turn me
round the corner.
* • * *
The Dunlop Tyre Co. has fixed September 16
for the Goulburn-Sydney bicycle road race. This will
give the successful competitors about two weeks to recu-
perate before taking part in the great Warrnambool-
Melbourne race. The Sydney cycling trade has shelled
out handsomely, and the total bag'will be worth £125.
The distance is 131 miles, and the riders are to be limited
to one bicycle, which will be sealed at Goulburn before
starting, so that there will be no chance of any dishonest
rider changing his jigger en route. Of course, no one
would suspect a professional cyclist of doing such a
dreadful thing, but just to relieve any weakerjessel from
temptation the big company reckons « » ' by
possible. The record time for the run is
Maorilander J. Arnst, in last years race ? t " beef .
Co. will see to it that the usual supply of chocolate, De
tea bread and milk, and other luxuries ar ?
Aloss Vale Picton, and Campbelltown. Nommat *.
wiTclose ’at the’Dunlop office, 150 01a*-ence-street
Sydney, on August 23, so now is the accepted time to get
in early. # , * *
Once more Maoriland has got the
fever and has got it as badly as it once had the war
fever.’ Nothing is talked of by the scorching push hut
test races. On the first Saturday in August no less than
six road races are taking place in Maoriland, stretching
away from the Three Kings to the Bluff-Woodville to
Napier, 100 miles; Paikakanki to Wellington, S- 'll-
- to Invercargill, 69 miles ; Milton to Dunedm,
60 miles ; Cambridge to Auckland, SO miles , Bnghtwater
to Nelson, 67 miles. These are all to select »ders t
compete in the Timaru to Christchurch road-race the
event that has unearthed all the road champions that
have so stood on the tail of the kangaroo recent
years. In fact, Maorilanders are beginning to say mat
after they win the Warrnambool-Melbourne race, e vent
ought to be transferred to Maoriland, and if the Aus-
tralians want to recover the biking ashes they should
come and race where the ashes are.
* * * .
A. Foster, who recently won the Westralian 25
and 50 mile road championships, is a highway flier of more
than ordinary parts. Having annexed the biggest road
fixtures in the land of flies and gold he is coming aci oss to
compete for the Warrnambool-Melbourne prize, and maj
also whirl a wheel over some of the N.S.W. roads it any-
thing decent offers. *
The inter-club cycling championship contest
was suspended on Saturday so that the wheelers might
help to swell the proceeds of the Stanbury-Towns sculling
match. The excitement will re-commence next Saturday,
when some close finishes are expected ; and at present
the possession of the Dunlop Shield is a matter of much
doubt and considerable wagering.
* * * *
I cannot understand how it is that
boomerang-throwing is not adopted as a branch of athle-
tics. Its novelty and thoroughly Australian charactei
would soon establish its popularity. If the game were
taken up by some of the large schools, interest would
soon be aroused. Points could be given for the closest
return, the longest flight, the best curves, and so on.
Watching the flight of a skilfully-thrown boomerang has
a great fascination—first the long, straight line within a
few feet of the earth ; then a gradually-rising curve until
it reaches its apex as it were, a few whirls of hesitancy,
then a long, hawk-like sweep, the weapon descending
slowly close to the ground, again rising slightly, and at
last falling almost at the starting-point.
* * * *
This coming Saturday (31st) Victoria and
Westralia will both have lacrosse teams in Adelaide.
S.A., which booms the Canadian game to much purpose,
has picked two separate teams to take them on. In a
club match lately one side threw 26 goals past about the
best keeper in the city ; and a State team once put up
the same score against N.S.W.
• * * *
The counter attraction of the Stanbury-Towns
contest on Saturday proved fatal to the day’s lacrosse, the
only two first grade teams to turn out in full strength
being those of Marrickville and North Sydney at the
Northern Oval. The North Sydney girls were there in
hundreds to barrack for their team, and excitement ran
high. It was a fast, strenuous game, but the keenness of
the rivalry was responsible for undue roughness on the
part of the Northmen, who began to get the worst of it early
in the struggle. The Marrickvillers, however, could not
press home their advantage, and a promising quarter
ended with only one miserable goal scored by the team
that had all the best of the play. It was enough to make
the angels weep. In the second quarter the Northmen
scored a couple very rapidly, and Marrickville could only
respond with a solitary, and the quarter found the North-
men leading by one. After that play became desultory,
each side adding a goal, and the end found North Sydney
winners with four to three.
* * » *
An international draughts tournament, 10 a
side, has been played between Great Britain and the U.S.
at Boston. The visiting team won 74 games, America
34, and 284 were drawn. That is the worst of draughts ;
it is about 3 to 1 against a game coming to any definite
end at all. One of the U.S. side retired from the contest
with “nervous breakdown!” It is lamentable to
go and wreck your nervous system at draughts.
* * * *
Champion sprint swimmer Healy. a day or two
since, for the entertainment of Otago ’Varsity foot-
ballers, accomplished a new world’s 60yd. best by
traversing the distance in 32.2-ssec. (2 4-ssee. better than
the figures assailed). Australian top-notch swimmers are
making a business of record-breaking.
A correspondent writes to the S.M.
Herald about the bitter grievance of Fat. It
seems that, if a certain Bill passes, the N.S.W.
landowner, unless he gives orders to the contrary
(and he often may not know that he can do so), is
liable to have the statement of his stock, &c.
which he sent in for the census, used to check his
land and income-tax return. As the census
doesn’t ask him for any money, he often supplies
it with a true return, and the outrage of having
this used to bowl out the false return sent in for
tax purposes strikes Property as monstrous. So
the Legislative Council is urged to keep an eye on
the Bill, “which is of a most insidious and
dangerous character,” and calculated to prevent
Fat defrauding the revenue.


Why the
'« i
limjilj
Sgkr^m
iilltiiii
is the Best in the World,
Good tobacco can only be grown on virgin soil. This is the reason that most Havana
and Mexican cigars are now so poor in quality and lacking in aroma.
Artificial manures have been used to force the growth of these tobaccos, and this
entirely spoils the quality.
The tobacco from which the “MARSUMA ” cigar is made is grown on virgin soil—
that is, land which has been covered for all known time with rank, wild undergrowth.
This is burnt, the land tilled, and tobacco seeds sown, and only in this manner can good
tobacco be obtained. Every few years' the ground is allowed to return to this wild state,
but in Cuba and Mexico this is not done, and consequently these tobaccos have
deteriorated year by year, and must now give place to EAST Indies tobacco, the finest
the world produces.
Quite different from any cigar offered before, the peculiarity of the East Indian
tobacco is that the dark leaves are equally mild as the light-colored ones.
Only ripe tobacco being used in the manufacture, “MARSUMA” cigars are always
a rich brown or dark brown color.
Being made from picked sweet-scented leaves of the young tobacco plant, the cigars
have a most fragrant, pleasing flavor, peculiarly their own.
SOLE AGELTTS :
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOTHERGILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
Mr. DAN REDDAN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Messrs. CORNELL & CO., Adelaide, S,A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. DUNCAN McLEAN, Greymoutb, N.Z.
In Adelaide with the Knight-Jeffries Co. were no less
than six managers—George Matheson, Johnny Farrell,
Cowan, Maynell, Gunn, and Varna. The three last-named
comprise the new theatrical firm for Australia.
JL
YeryOldVatteA
■.I .A— | .■—»
Liqueur Whisky.
JKstilled&Bottled by
'em*
Kilmarnock .Scotland.
RAINSOM’^^
Muquid^cj)
STOPPING
1A
Per Bottle
ALL CHEMISTS
& STORES I
DECAYED Vi
I Gives
Instahr relief
from pain
killslfte nerVe
Fill§ up tfie
Cavity and
If\e teetff are
again useful.
Toolfiache Cured
Posf free from fheSole Proprietors,
Australian Drug C?L t? , Sydney.
9
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
t'¥*~ Every Bar weighs 17 Honest
English Ounces, divided into 6 Cakes,
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams!
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never he without it.
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
:s
m
aai
ill
ifl
m
mi
'IT OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-C ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,” ~9S
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Oifice. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELMS,
FREE to
Mtisk Lovers
We ll send Free to all Lovers of
Fine Music a Copy of our Phono-
graph Catalogue by return mail.
It tells all about Phonographs
and the Latest Records.
CUT OUT THIS AND DOST TO US.
Send us a Copy of your Phonograph
Catalogue.
Name
Address
Prices from 10s.
jt
OSBORN * JERDAN, Ltd.
"My Opticians,”
Consulting: Opticians & Spectacle Makers,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Pacing Royal Hotel.
' J T\
The ever useful cat made a startling
appearance in a Sydney police court the other
day, when a lady explained that pussy must have
upset some poison into somebody’s tea.
Apparently the whole of Victoria’s
McOutclieon clan runs to Toryism and financial
incapacity. The one in the Vic. Assembly is a
choice specimen thereof, and lately another moved
The Late DR. KEVIN
IZOD O'DOHERTY ,
of Queensland.
and persuaded Mans-
field Shire Council
to agree that “ each
council shall use its
influence with its
Parliamentary re-
presentative to
block any fresh legis-
lation on the muni-
cipal subsidy ques-
tion, so that the en-
dowment may revert
automatically to
£lOO,OOO a year, un-
til some statesman
arises with the fore-
sight of the late D,
Gdlies, whose mas-
ter-stroke of policy
in increasing the en-
dowment so largely
conduced to the in-
ternal progress of
the country,” etc., etc, Poor old Gillies, who bor-
rowed and boomed, and blew’ huge bubbles, and
threw money round with a shovel, and had no
thought beyond faking the balance-sheet and buy-
ing votes with cockspur railways, is still the ideal
of Vic. Toryism.
The latest complaint of the anti-Federal
party is that the Commonwealth law shows a
narrow and grudging spirit in prohibiting mem-
bers of State Legislatures standing for the
Federal Parliament. The wild humor of the
situation is that the N.S.W. State Legislature
first prohibited Federal members being candi-
dates for the N.S.W. Assembly; then S.A., Tas-
mania and Westralia followed suit; and two years
later the Federal Legislature, irritated by these
mean little pin-pricks, decided that the gander
could do with the same sauce as the goose, and
disqualified State members in its turn. Now cer-
tain politicians of the State which first invented
the mean little disqualification complain that the
Australian Parliament shouldn’t do such things.
The question of a continuation of the
present almost useless Bowen (Q.) railway, which
ends at a hole with some eels in it, to its proper point
(a junction with the Townsville-Richmond line at
Charters Towers), comes up yearly for discussion
in Queensland. Premier Morgan has just dropped
a wet blanket on the latest big deputation.
Queensland is suffering a horrible recovery from
the loan drunks of the eighties. Railways were
splashed around then as a swaggie splashes his
cheque about in the Lambihg-down Hotel, and how
poor swaggie has a brown taste in his mouth as
his reward, and the unfinished Bowen line is part
of the brown flavor. All the same, it is up to
Morgan and Kidston to hustle at the earliest
moment for some more revenue —not loans—and
complete the Bowen line. Queensland can’t live
on repentance and wet blankets.
Gent's
Dttnlop
Usraibrelta.
©riving
Goat
(With Wind Cuffs and
Rubber Collar.)
W A
! <5
This Umbrella Waterproof Coat is
acknowledged to be the most suit-
able fhaje for dirhing and motors
ihg piirpost s ;
The collar fits Close, so as to
Exclude rain, wind, dust and cold
but, being made from pure rubber,
is not uncomfortable. Those
garments made from rubber faced
cloths also have the advantage of
being readily cleaned from dust
ana grit Dy tne appli-
cation of a damp
sponge.
Unlike an ordinary
coat, this does not
possess buttons. The
absence of an opening
at the back or front,
and the addition of
wind cuffs, renders our
Umbrella Coat imper-
vious to the elements.
Cashmere Lined Check
46in. long. 50in. long.
55/- 60/-
Cotton Twills
46in. long. 50in. long.
35/- 40/.
Glazed Drab Rubber
46in. long. 50in. long.
70/- 80/-
Glazed White or Black
Rubber
46in. long. SOin. long.
70/- 80/-
We also stock a special
Tight Shower - proof
Coat, which can be
wrapped up and almost
carried in pocket. Length from
48in. to 52in. Weight only 18 ozs.
In one shade only, biscuit colour,
20/- each.
Xhe Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre 00.
of Australasia Ltd.,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne,
IR Grenfell Street, Adelaide
617 Hay Sir-et, Pei k.
148 150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
268-270 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
188 Lichfield St., Chris'church (N.Z.)
AT POVERTY POINT.
In place of the intimation on some Australian theatre
programmes that attendants are forbidden to accept tips,
many English programmes inform the public that
“Gratuities are allowed.” Probably the next move will
be an effort to save performers’ salaries by sending Hamlet
around with the hat after he has seen his parent’s ghost.
As backwash to London Drury Lane boom advt. that it
was giving actor George Alexander £250 per week for
appearing in Hall Caine’s “ Prodigal Son,” somebody
rises up to state that an American chorus girl is being
offered £4OO a week to appear on the boards again. Her
special claim to fame and big screw is that she has been
tried for murder and acquitted.
Commodore, best-known and most-beloved pony in
Australia, died of old age the other week. Commodore
was the mainstay of Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus in their
struggling days, and according to a Bulletin yarn of long
ago the tricky piebald pony constituted the whole of the
show at one time when the Brothers were down on their
young luck. But for Commodore they might have sold
their little tent and gone into a less breezy line of busi-
ness, where their front names would have lengthened into
Daniel and Thomas, and dull respectability would have
claimed them for its own. Endeared to the" bosses by old
associations, Commodore presumed somewhat on their
favor as time went on. He grew very uncertain in his
temper—in the ring and out of it. As the Circus ex-
panded and became associated with elephants and car-
nivorous beasts, the original star performer seemed t >
feel his loss of importance. It wasn’t safe to stand near
Commodore’s hind legs when a lion roared. He kicked at
the sound. A true piebald Australian, racy of the soil, he
objected to those imported aliens, anyhow. But now he
is dead to this world. Never again will he gammon to go
lame in front at the request of a vociferous clown who
earries a balloon concealed about his chest. Probably the
grand old pony is born again, and
The angel children, flitting round
A circus on the Golden Shore—
Bright, smiling nippers, halo-crowned—
Applaud the tricks of Commodore.
“ Ned ” Holloway is 83 years of age, and still acting.
He has been on the stage over half-a-century—- for 20
years with Alfred Dampier. Thirty years ago, when Mrs.
Holloway was alive, it was Ned’s ambition, after they
had put £lOOO together, to buy a farm on the Ha.vkes-
bury and settle down ; but Mrs. Holloway died —she w’as
Ned’s right hand—and the farm is forgotten, and the old
man is still acting.
“ Melb.” : What has become of the droves of girls who
used to flock after Nance O’Neil five years ago? Echo
answers. They came thick as the leaves in Vailombrosa,
and after the play they streamed down Bourke-street l.ke
a thousand joyful ewes in a Riverina freshet. Some may
be married, and have an angel or two. Some may have
gone to China as missionaries. Some may have salt-
cellars in their necks. Some may have found out they
are thirty. Some may have gone up. Some—but every
reader can continue this sort of thing indefinitely.
“ G. Elburg” : Went to see that sugared bon-bon, “Mon*
sieur Beaucaire,” for the first time. The playlet is mainly
a matter of clothes and mild stoush, with Julius of the
legs underneath the apparel but on top of the stoush all
through. How the girls do love J. Knight 1 A row of
sweet young things behind me unanimously gasped “ Oh 1
isn’t he 1-o-vely ? ” every time Beaucaire appeared in a
new suit. And as Julius kept changing his clothes, the
girleens continued gasping until I caught a cold through
them breathing hard on my head. Maud Jeffries has
developed an irritating habit of mouthing her words, with
a weird rise on the last notes.
A recent revival of “ The Cabinet Minister ” suggests
that Pinero had a prophetic vision of Premier Balfour
when he wrote the farcical comedy some fifteen years ago.
The Cabinet Minister complains that the House of
Commons torments him sorely, the newspapers are mostly
unsympathetic, and he has to fly for consolation to the
flute. Balfour is suspected of a weakness for the zither.
Lionel Brough (uncle of Australia’s one and only Robert)
on June 15th celebrated his 50th year on the stage with
about the biggest benefit programme on record ; it is diffi-
cult to name anyone among London’s leading actors who
was not in it. Estimated result to L. 8., £lOOO. Bio-
graphers recall that half-a-century ago there were so
many Broughs on the stage that the new-comer was
ordered to call himself “ Lionel Porter,” to avoid confu-
sion.
“ O’Fipp ” : They are strong on local color at Melbourne
Opera House. A fashionably-dressed vocalist, after sing-
ing “ The Miner’s Dream of Home,” confides this to the
audience : “ Well, I’ve struck it rich, and now I’m about
to take the train to Fremantle, on my way to the dear old
land I left ten year ago.” The W. A. goldfields from which
he is departing, are represented by several “coo-ees,”a
Bret-Harteish landscape of pines, a log hut, and a low
comedian, who seems to have been used to gathering
nuggets in Whitechapel.
“ O’Fipp ” : Various Argus references to the brilliancy
of W. M. Akhurst’s “historical burlesques,” produced at
Melbourne Theatre Royal in the ’6o’s, led me to struggle
through the book of “ The Battle of Hastings.” Its beau-
ties consist mainly of italicised puns. Here are a few
samples
“ And for this son and heir I’ve set a s-n-n-are.”
“ Your Highness. Yes, your eye on his crown you’ve
got.”
“ Although you play first fiddle in the State,
I tell you, King, you are a vile ingrate.’’
Nearly every line contains puns, many of them worse than
those quoted, and yet an Argus writer says Akhurst was
“ always good,” and wonders that none of his burlesques
have been revived during the last quarter of a century.
Perhaps Akhurst’s early connection with the Argus as
musical critic blinds it to the mediocrity of his stuff.
Some recent musical comedies have been poor enough,
but almost anything would be preferable to a resurrection
of the Akhurst tripe.
Ipswich (Q.) has bred a giantess, who goes to England
on a three years’ engagement. She is 23years old, weighs
42st. s Jib., and is strong, active, and heaithy. Breakfast
diet : 36 eggs, loaf of bread, lib. butter, 12 cups of tea.
Dinner : 91b. meat, 101 b. vegetables. Tea : the same fare
Many sundries are included.


Co-operating Wool & Produce Co.,
A BONA FIDE PASTORALISTS’ INSTITUTION.
Sydney.
Telephone 4375.
MOORE HOUSE,
16 & 18 Cast/erecigh St., Sydney.
The most perfectly appointed establishment in Australasia for treatment by
MASSAGE, HYDRO-ELECTRIC BATHS,
VIBRATIONS, LIGHT BATHS,
and all modern methods of Light, Heat, and Electric Treatment Comfortable
appointed Waiting and Rest Rooms for Ladies and Gentlemeh. t y
Patient 3 attended at their own homes if required.
P>°P- g7l.
ELECTROTHERAPY, Ltd.
NOW OPEN . Inspection invited.
N. HARVISON, M.R.P.S., R.D.S.,
Manager.
ONE HUNDRED AND FOURTEENTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT OF THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
T - ===== LIMITED. —— ■— *
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the
Head Banking House, George Street, Sydney, on Tuesday, 18th July, 1005.
“ d A-Bolths Bank „„
out of which th e Directors r e c°i n m e n d the following'appropriations • £5(J,593 6 1
£ffi?t°o f ße^ve e Fund r ““ Half ' year at the rate of 10 P er ceilt - P<* annum .. £50,000 0 0
„ Balance being undivided Profit .1 " "• 1?’220 2 ?
* •• .. 6L,Q\)6 D 1
£30,593 6 1
Articles of Associa-
.. , . . , ~ -equisite notice that he
During the Half-year Branches have’beeTesTablishedTft BowravUle and Scone 01 in h thiritate
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable. ’ 1
GEORGE J. OOHEN. Chairman.
])«. LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
(Including London Branch to 30th June, by Cable.) Cf*
To Capital..
„ Reserve Fund
„ Reserve Capital
To Capital Paid-up
„ Reserve Fund..
„ Notes in circulation
„ Bills in circulation
~ Deposits and other liabilities
~ Profit and Loss Account..
.. 428,059 0 0
.. 599,331 2 8
.. 12,338,811 11 7
93,654 9 7
£15,529,856 3 10
By Coin and Bullion in
hand .. . ... ~£3,055,208 3 9
» Cash at Bankers .. 73,987 7 3
„ Money at short call
in London .. .. 495,000 0 0
„ British Consols and
Government Securi ties 1,308,600 0 0
~ Queensland- Govern-
ment Notes .. .. 40,993 0 0
„ Bills Receivable in
London and Remit-
tances in transit .. 1,312,110 911
~ Notes and -bills of
other banks .. .. 58,901 8 7
> , £6,347,800 9 6
„ Bills discounted, and all debts due to
the Bank 8,723,455 U 4
„ Bank premises, furniture, &e 458,600 0 0
£15,529,856 3 10
PROFIT and loss account.
To Rebate on current bills
„ Dividend Account for payment of a
Dividend for past Half-year at the rate
of 10 per cent, per annum
„ Reserve Fund
~ Balance of undivided profit carried to
next Half-year
£7,061 3 6
50,000 0 0
15,000 0 0
21,593 6 1
£93,654 9 7
By Amount undivided from last Half-year. ,£21,359 0 X
~ Profit for Half-year ended 30th June,
1905 72,265 9 6
£93,654 9 7
reserve fund.
1905—June 30th
£1,07.0,000 0 0
By Transfer from Profit and Loss Account.’. ’ U,OOO 0 0
£1,085,000 0 0
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
T. B. GADE!\', Acting General Manager.
A. J. SOUTAR, Accountant.
E. S. OAPE, 1 .
A. H. K. MAXWELL, / Au M , roR3.
The following resolutions were carried unanimously
“ That t pr o pHe°tors.” d Sfcate ' uents of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated among the
“That Hose j’i?f b -°A’ be i ' e ' e,ecfced a Director of the Bank.”
“That of thi shlrphnM V ‘ Dock f - Es q., be appointed Auditors for the ensuing year.”
&g&sr*"- - -
. T - B - GADEN, Acting General Manager.
The Chairman, Mr. G. J. Cohen, in moving the adoption of the Report, said
Directors are enabled‘to subniif of the Half-readjust Balanoe Bheefc that the
SoS£iS s “ s ’“
s«st.‘a£s**s£:
it "SS making
We think that this position of affairs is highly satisfactory, but we cannot shut our eyes to the fact that although
we have had a bountiful Harvest and a good Wool Clip with full prices for on fn Li ie*« Z! h,.S\ if!
expansion of trade during the half-year that might have been expected Products, there has not been that
the flocks of the State have largely increased and the prospects of a good Harvest seem well assured so that the
producing interests of the country should be substantially benefited. assured, so that the
lated among e 'the°Proprietoro. the R<?P ° rt a " d Statements of Account be received and adopted and ordered to be circu-
The Mails make us all Neighbors.
\fOU can buy as safety and satisfactorily by letter as if you
" came in person. Our Mail Order Department is at your
service, and inquiries regarding prices, qualities and styles
will be answered promptly. Write for our Illustrated Cata-
logue, mentioning what you are specially interested in. We
deliver any article we sell, free to your door.
No. G43s9.—Very Handsome and Strong 9ct.
Gold Brooch, stone set, £1 6s.
No. G6206.—9ct. Gold, Leaf Centre and Two
Bar Brooch, 12s 6d.
SEE
No. o.—lsct. Gold and Fine Opal Brooch,
£1 37s 6d
No. 62631. —150 t. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Brooch, £1 10s.
No. 30.— Very Pretty 15ct. Gold and Fine Opal
and Pearl set Bee Brooch, £2 10s.
No. G44sl.—Fine Real Pearl and Oct. Gold
Brooch, 30s.
No. G69B9.—Em-
bossed and Silver
Plated Call-Bell.
Os 6d.
No. G 4066. —Gold-lined Silver-
plated Trinket Box, 17s Cd.
No. G 6984.— Silver-plated
Table or Office Call-Bell,
11s 6d.
No. Gsl4B.—Solid
Silver-mounted
Bedroom Clock,
27s 6d.
No. G4l7s—New Art Design Solid Silver-
mounted Boot Button Hook, 3s.
No. G4l76.—New Art Design Solid Silver-
mounted Shoe Lift, 3s 6d.
No. G2098.—9ct.
Gold and Green-
stone Lace Pin,
6s 6d.
No. G32S4.—9ct. Gold New Style Bamboo Bracelet.
Price 45s ; larger sizes, 55s and 635.
Solid Silver Buttons in Oases. Sets of six, up-to-date styles,
for 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s.
No. G 4599. Gold
and Greenstone
Lucky Shoe Lace
No. GloB.—Solid Silver Manicure Set, £2 15s.
Silver-plated
Orange Peeler.
Is 6d.
ran
1
mrx
No. G 4474. —Solid Silver Midget
Photo. Frame, 2s 6d.
No. G 3582.—0. of E, Hymn and Praye
Book in Silver-Mounted Case, 12s (id
No. G7o4s.—Sterling- Silver Manicure
Set, £l' Is.
Write To-Day for
Our illustrated
Price List.
No. G7049.—0ut Glass
and Solid Silver Tooth
Brush Stand, 21s.
No. G 4227. Finest Silver-Plated 3-Piece
Afternoon Tea Set., £3 17a 6d.
I
gwfflgM H i - mm
I
No. G7o46.—Sterling- Silver Manicure Set,
£1 ss.
STEWART DAWSON <& CO.,
George St. & Strand, Sydney.
More of the struggle for a crust, being a
Sydney advertisement of this month
JJ°W to Naum the Baby.-2200 Names to select from,
for Is., post paid. M.0.5.A., Goughtovvn.
VVI! te : eStin § 5 but how much “ore use-
iettiWfV, ld K b l t 0 S6n v d al , on £ a list of 2200 ways of
° ttmg the baby a job when he grows up !
Why doesn’t some person in the know
write up the peculiarities of the crowd of Go-
vernors that Australia has suffered from at one
time and another? One bygone vice-regal con-
stellation frequently suffered, according to the
!l° m very , bad chills ’ and was often
lnvisiMe for three weeks at a stretch. His favorite
aide-de-camp invariably had a bad attack of in-
fluenza parallel with his XXXellency’s sufferings.
YVhenthepair were convalescent the bottle-oh
plied briskly back and forth from the back gate
of Government House with huge cargoes of dead
marines.
• When the N.S.W. Licensing Act came
mto force m 1882 Sydney had 848 pubs, to wet the
whisties of its 248,231 people. It has now only
17J to wet just twice as many whistles. There
was a shocking waste of beer-engine and barmaid
m the old days, and the present public ouAit to
gam something very considerable in the way of
purer liquor and better measure. But the chances
seem to be that the pub.-owners who have kept
their licenses have gained a great deal more It’s
simply a question of Fat getting the unearned
increment over again, the increment arising in
tins case from the public deliberately reducing
the number of beer-engines even though the num-
ber of thirsts has doubled.
question*:— the wh y* womeil -wear-skirts
other^sex 6 * hat , we , wear to please the
rl ~r
raison d’etre of skirts is e-isfnm T«t a! ? d onl y
clumiiino- hoots stor u Just as men cling- to
Our mothers put us’into tV COl K rS ,’ and shadeless hats,
that by the time we are 20 weT b re "? can walk, 80
teSS s “"r' “sSs^sa;
Maoiiiand, are reaching out after. No doubt
there is money m it; but what about its effect
upon the spirit of the inhabitants ? The genus
tourist is largely composed of wealthy snobsf who
insist upon getting the worth of their money in
servility and who have great ideas of the amount
of there should be in sixpence. The country
of tourists is also the country of waiters ostlers
people who carry baggage, people who rush to
noH n tb am b Se ' doorS ’ guldes ’ Peddlers of curios,
arriST hang T:? n who pervade the landscape
around caves and the like, and wear a threepenny
expression, and try to get paid for pervading, li
caTlod e onT«w ei I fc »°- War now . and the enemy
cailed out Waiter’’just as the battle was about
the whoie Swiss force would prob-
adl °P I^s ri^e a ud rush forward, saying
tJJX’* and a f kln o him if he would take soup.
It s the tourist disease which gives a country the
the f£ d \ fc 1S worse for the stamina of
the people than the two-up instinct. It is even
“ Bu,f “ 10 " * U “ l “ bite - »


Mm
m
mm
Australia’s Two Favourites.
MISS MAY BEATTY '
AND...
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
the Tomer Praises the Latter.
VERYONE in Australasia knows Miss May Beatty and admires her clever acting.
Her admirers cannot help laughing at her humour, nor can they fail to be im-
pressed when she gives them sober advice. Her many friends will be pleased to read
an extract from a recent letter:—
f e Last Thursday I was again suffering so muoh with
Bronchitis that I thought it would be impossible for me
to appear that evening. A friend in the Hotel* seeing my
® condition, suggested that I try Chamberlain's Cough Remedy. As you know, I have
suffered very much this winter with my throat, and really think I have tried every
line of Patent Medicine advertised for that complaint, but none of them gave me relief.
Thinking it no harm to try another advertised remedy, and especially when it
was so highly recommended by Mrs. A—, I secured a bottle of Chamberlain's Cough
Remedy and commenced taking it at once. To my surprise and great relief, by Six
o'clock I was feeling much better; my throat was not so inflamed and I had a less
desire to cough so often.
I was able to go to the theatre and went through my part without very much
trouble. I continued taking Chamberlain's Cough Remedy for a couple of days and by that
time was completely cured, and have not had the slightest trouble with my throat since.
Hereafter I will always see that I have a bottle of Chamberlain's Cough Remedy
with me, for one cannot tell when same may be needed.''
Melbourne, July 3rd, 1905.
“ Priam,” on the Yic. State Ministry :
Bent is a statesman obscured by grossness, ignorance,
vanity, and fat.
Gillott is a landlord, and that ends him. His talk
sounds like a bleat; but it is a mistake to suppose him a
sheep. You need only live in one of his houses to find
that out.
Swinburne is an amiable man, with some commercial
training. He has tried to understand the bastard politi-
cal creed to which he was supposed to be attached, but
he has tried in vain. So he frames his'legislation methodi-
cally, and being simple and without prejudice, he gives
surprising satisfaction.
Murray is a burly fellow, who aspires to achieve dis-
tinction without effort. Whether as a Radical or a Tory,
he has always followed the line of least resistance. He
bungles when he schemes, but he has gone farther than
others who schemed more cleverly.
Sachse has a curly moustache and a fluty ■v oice. He has
learned a whole set of platitudes, pumped into him by
Tate, the tireless Director of Education. With either
brains or experience, Sachse might become a drag on the
Educational wheel.
Mackey, though an hon, Minister, is often alleged to be
the brains of the Cabinet. He has a well-stored mind,
like the library of a man who gloats over the covers of
his books. He assimilates new facts slowly and thor-
oughly, and doubtless finds them improving to himself.
His mind bears no external fruits.
Davies is a respectable solicitor, who is said to be just,
impartial, and honorable—except by those who speak
differently.
Pitt, Langdon, M‘Leod, and Cameron are men with
whiskers arranged in different styles.
"GRAND PmX" PARIS 1900.
The Highest Possible Award.
JOSEPH GILLOTT’S
PENS.
Highest Quality, and Having Greatest
Durability, are therefore
CHEAPEST.
“It is able to support
Life — Lancet.
ONE CUP OF
PLASMON
COCOA
Contains tr ere nourishment than
10 cups of any ordinary cocoa.
Absolutely free from
Chemicals,
Parson Mason, of Otahuhu (Auckland), is
Maoriland’s champion water-finder with the bent
twig. Still, as a six-year-old kiddy will drown,
except on the hills, anywhere if he is allowed to
sink a hole in Pig Island soil for half an hour, there
is very little demand for the aquatic twigger in
Maoriland. Yet there have been mighty twig-gists
in that wet laud. One Charlie Stewart, from
S.A., was in some request as a damp-locater in
earlier days. Charles once got to work for a West
Coast publican, who only wanted to see how his
magic would answer. The water-finder solemnly
followed his twig round a eoujjle of paddocks, and
then back to the pub. again, where, despite his
frantic struggles, it dragged him through the bar-
door and in behind the counter, and pointed
fixedly to the whisky cask. The disturbance that
followed was memorable, and the twig was trodden
to death before the trouble blew over.
“ JS".”: The autobiography of Chief
Inspector Cavanagh, of Scotland Yard, has a goou
deal about E. T. Smith, Dr. L. L. Smith’s father.
He was an ex-superintendent of police, sen of an
admiral, and first came into notice keeping the
Red Lion Inn, “where he used to have some
peculiar attractions on hand. One time it was the
living skeleton, at another the fat woman. Then
he bloomed into a successful lessee of Drury
Lane, etc. Cavanagh joined the force as a
policeman He had to wear a glazy bell-topper,
and swallow-tail coat, with a belt, having an
odiem, big buckle in front. On his first beat, by
night, he had a burly bobby, Tom Tully, doing the
other side of the street. Says Tom, “ Any
roosters ? ” This meant swells who gave the
police tips out of pure good nature. Then says
Tom, “There are twelve dabs on my side of the
street, and eight on yours.’’ These meant free
drinks available every night. The policeman’s
life was a happy one then despite the glazed hat.
Jb'rom far-off Valparaiso :
Struck Tun Bulletin at Conception, in the south of
Chili, and glad to find you still battling- against humbug
and snuffle.
Looking from a distance, it s:ems to me that Australia
has got too many rules and regulations screwed on to its
barren surface. Over in Argentina most everybody sells
liquor seven days a week and 24 hours a day, and no one
gets drunk. If you do spot a drunk, you can bet a shm-
plaster he’s a boy of the bulldog breed. Believe if you got
rid of all the red-tape licensing laws of Australia you
would have less harmful boozing-.
In Argentina and in Chile I rarely see imported brands.
Practically none but local makes are used. The beer is
as like Melbourne lager as may be, and' the wines could
be labelled Australian and no one know the difference.
British people here drink these local productions with
gusto—the same people who would sniff at Australian
stuff. Why can’t you knock good sense into that Federa
tariff of yours, and force Australian makes into fashion ?
The Englishmen here treat the semi-yellow people of
these republics like dogs—unless the dogs are rich. I find
that English people hate Australians likewise. Believe it
is because we are not sufficiently ’umble.
What a lot of non-patriots Australia sends abroad !
Almost all the Australians I meet in Argentina belong to
what you call the Stinking F.sh party.
Travelled on steamer with a Victorian squattocrat, who
got sick every time rabbits came on the table. He ran
down Australia from Wellington to Cape Horn, but, after
cruising round the Pampas for a fortnight, concluded
that Australia was a safer place for him. Victorian bush-
workers are free with their tongues, but not so ready
with the knife as our gauchos.
Hear much talk to the effect that many Australians are
selling out there to take up land here. Can’t .find them.
All I know come to billets in freezing, or mining, or har-
vesting machinery concerns. Salaries are high here, but
cost of living is quite double that of Melbourne or Sydney,
and social life doesn’t exist outside of Buenos Ayres.
Knowone Australian on theland, “Commotion" Pearson,
of the “ same old ” Essendon. He runs 20 leagues of camp
for an English company, and is quoted all over the Re-
public as a most successful estaneiero. Grows Australian
wheat, and reaps it with Australian strippers, and so on.
Was the first man to introduce the Australian wool-press
into South America.
A. strange result of landlordism is reported
from Bartdykes, Lanarkshire (Scotland). The
ground landlord, presumably a proud and bloated
eipitalist, declined to renew the lease of Messrs.
Merry and Cunninghame, who have been working
the ground for coal these many years. The closing
of the coal-pits means that “a village of work-
men’s houses affording accommodation for 600
miners will be razed to the ground.” What a fir.o
progressive paradise of the working man is
Britain ! But how rich it is in spite of its big-
landlords ! On the same day that the closing of
Merry and Cunninghame’s pits was decreed,
another 1500 acres of good house-coal were practi-
cally proved at the Burton-on-Trent colliery,
which provides the noble Earl of Carnarvon with
visible means of support. The new discovery is
reckoned to represent an addition of 150 years to
the life of the Carnarvon mine, and so “ there is
great rejoicing in the district.” The inhabitants
revel in the thought that their descendants unto
the third and fourth generation will be able to toil
at digging wedth for future earls from the bowels
of their family estate. They don’t want any
Socialism. They work for reg’ler wages, and feel
grateful to the landlord who allows them to do it.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S
A MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluabie for Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains. and Grease Spots from Clothing.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
“ MAKES HOME, SWEET HOME IN DIED.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubh & Co. on each Bottle.
93
For
Cou
hs
Colds
and
Consumption
V
SOKE. LUNGS.
When your lungs are sore
and. inflamed from coughing
is the time when the germs
of pneumonia, pleurisy, and
consumption find lodg'ment
and multiply. DR. SHEL-
DON’S NEW DISCOVERY
for COUGHS, COLDS, and
CONSUMPTION stops the
cough, Heals and strenjgtli-
ens the lung's. It is a safe
and never-failing' remedy.
Small dose. Pleasant to tahe.
Every bottle guaranteed.
PRICE, Is. 6d. & 3s.
Sole Proprietors* A
SHELDON DRUG CO.. M
15 O’Connell St., Sydney.


The World’s Greatest
Skin Soap.
The World’s Sweetest
Toilet Soap.
Sale Greater than tfie World’s Product
; of Other Skin Soaps.
Sold Wherever Civilization Has
Penetrated.
Millions of the world’s best people use
Cuticura Soap, assisted by Cuticura Oint-
ment, the great skin cure, and purest and
sweetest of emollients," for'preserving,
purifying, and beautifying the skin ; for
cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and
dandruff, and the stopping of falling hair,
for softening, whitening, and soothing
red, rough, and sore hands, for baby
rashes, itchings, and, chafings, for annoy-
ing irritations, or too free or offensive
perspiration, for ulcerative weaknesses,
and many sanative, antiseptic purposes
which readily suggest themselves to
women, especially mothers, as well as
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath,
and nursery.
Cuticura Soap combines delicate emol-
lient properties derived from Cuticura,
the great skin cure, with the purest of
cleansing ingredients and the most re-
freshing of flower odours. No other
medicated soap ever compounded is to
be compared with it for preserving, puri-
fying, and beautifying the skin, scalp,
hair, and hands. No other foreign or
domestic toilet soap, however expensive,
is to be compared with it for all the pur-
¥oses of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
hus it combines in one soap at one price
the most effective skin and complexion
soap, and the purest and sweetest toilet,
bath, and nursery soap.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout the
world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse ; Paris,s Kue de
laPaix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney. Potter Drug &
Chem. Oorp., Boston, U. S. A., Sole Preps.
Send for “ How* to Preserve, Purify, and Beautify the
Skin, Scalp, Hair, and Hands.” Mailed Free.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATER I a L
(Kegd.)
DOES MOT SHRINK.
&
DAY
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyj amas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: " ‘Viyella* has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manairer. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
MR. ANDREW MACK,
Supported by HIS OWN COMPLETE COMPANY, in his
Latest Success, the Typical Romantic Irish Play,
THE WAY TO KENMARE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. tar PRICES AS USUAL.
HEATH E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Superb Adelphi Melodramatic Novelty,
THE MIDNIGHT MAIL,
Presented by the
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, Headed by the
Talented Australian Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Elvy.’s. POPULAR PRICES—os, 2s and Is.
CR I TER IO N THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
And Until Further Notice,
The Greatest of All London Successes,
THE EARL AND THE GIRL.
THE THEATRE CROWDED NIGHTLY
with Enthusiastic and Fashionable Audiences.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Gd., and Is. 03 ‘No Early Doors.
Box Plan at Elvy’s ; Day Sale at White Rose.
p ALA Ci T H EATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
A GREAT BOOM.
If You Would Be Up-to-Date, You Must See
THE GREAT THURSTON,
The World’s Master Fascinating Magician.
PRICES-35., 25., Is. Gd., and Is. No Early Doors.
Plan at Paling’s. A. COWAN, Manager.
■ yceum Theatre, Sydney
FOURTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS of the
GREAT AMERICAN THEATRESCOPE.
THE WORLD’S SCULLING CHAMPIONSHIP,
Reproduced five hours after the actual event, declared a
record in THE ANNALS OF ANIMATED ART.
The star attraction exhibited in addition to a host of
new and varied DRAMATIC, SCENIC and HUMOROUS
SUBJECTS.
PRICES—2s., Is. and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
QUEEN’S HALL, SYDNEY.
Sub-Lessee & Manager .. Mr. F. M. CLARK.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
FRANK M. CLARK'S N W FOLLY CO.
The Brightest and Most Retime « audeville Show in
the Commonwealth.
Overwhe’ming Reception of the New Artists—MAY
DAGMAR, GEORGE SCOTT, THE AVONDALES.
POPULAR PRICES—2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY <& SATURDAY.
LITE H A L L, SYDNEY
(Late Tart’s Premises, Q.V. Markets).
LINGARD’S
' "W O JSI ZD 3ES Sri. JLn _A_ INI 30,
AN IDEAL PALACE OF AMUSEMENT,
and A MARVELLOUS EXHIBITION,
hi Conjunction with the
ROYAL CORONATION WAXWORKS,
From England and America.
6 COMPLETE SHOWS IN ONE. 6
OPEN DAILY FROM MORNING TILL EVENING.
IVO L ! r H EATRE, SV D ,\fT Y.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mb. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of MISS FLORENCE CH4LLIS.
Also, THE MODERN MILO, and CRUIKSHANK, THE
CARICATURIST. KELLY AND AGNES.
FdANK LEON. J. W. WiNTON and M’GINTY.
THE GOTHAM TRIO.
Emphatic Success of MR. LEO. DRY DEN.
Great Success of Master BCBSIE WYLDMAN and Miss
CLARICE CUDLEIGH. Also, Mr. IRVING SAYLES.
HARRY ROCHFORT, HARRY HART, FRANK YORKE.
OP ERA HO U 8 ir, M£LB O U R.ii E
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
WALTER KEEN, Author and Comedian.
ELLEN MARR, Contralto.
WILL MINTON, Comedian Dancer.
DELRQY and BELL, Sketch Artists.
CPAS. DIAMOND. MISS BEATRICE, Expei ■t Musicians.
THE LAZARAS, Acrobatic Artists.
JAMES KABYEY, Comedian and Dancer.
NAT TRAVERS, Coster Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —3s, 2s Gd, 2s, Is.
THEATRE R OYAL, ME LB OUR NE.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Exciting Melodramatic Spectacle,
WOMAN AND WINE.
$3" PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
C. S.IMONSENS, Manager.
PRINCESS’S THE ATR e 7 M ELBO U RNE.
Lessee .. .. Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
Sub-Lessees & Managers .. Messrs. Brough & Flemming.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY in
THE WALLS OF JERICHO.
BOX PLAN at Glen’s, Meilzies’, and The Grand.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 p.m.
MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURN2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of TRILBY.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 29,
Miss ZKTei,m.o© O’JNT eil,
in :
MARIE ANTOINETTE.
MISS NANCE O’NEIL as MARIE.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES,
WEDNESDAYS.
yOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
TUESDAY, Ist AUGUST, at 8 p.m.
(In the Presence of Lady Northcote),
PHILHARMONIC SOCIETY’S CONCERT.
Conductor .. ~ Mr. , GEORGE PEAKE.
“DAMNATION OF FAUST” (Berlioz)
Full Orchestra, Chorus, St. Paul’s Cathedral Choir Boys.
Miss LILIAN REID, Mr. GREGOR WOOD, Mr. HORACE
STEVENS, Mr. HENRY ROFE.
OS’ 3s Gd, 3s, 2s, Is. R- J- OEHR, Hon. Sec.
T own U P Oaatlemaine way over the
T £ dredging case. Judge Chomley held that the
Loddon Co was polluting, the river of the same name, and
he assessed damages, allotting a portion to the com-
Or io» nt A. a ° Cal farm ® r ' Thus eve, 'V other CO. working on
f"wT er can be s , ued in turn. Judge Chomley’s
iw', ls tbat t ,h ? re was no custom ”to safeguard the c'o.
although ininnig was in the district before the farmer, and
that the Mines Act did not take away from the landowner
tus common-law right to sue. Situation is identical with
that which occurred in Maoriland, where Government
decided that all rivers should be declared sludge channels
and compensated the farmer out of public revenue for any
damage proved.
* * * *
Since the Berringa mines (Vic.) have got to
using 23 cubic feet of broken quartz as a standard ton
their statistics of working costs have a value. Whv
managers should have ever penalised themselves bv
reckoning up to 33 cubic feet as a ton cannot be grasped
U « Ie A S lt t s w , a ? a dread that the Public would be frightened
os the field because the grade was low. But the field
now has a reputation quite as much for its low costs as
tor its low grade ore, and still more because some of the
mines, notably Williams’ Fancy and Birthday Tunnel
pay divs. steadily. Last six months’ work at the
.tunnel cost 11s. 3d. per ton, including 2s. lOd. for
(levelop ent and other capital charges. Quartz treated,
11,805 tons ; yield, 2745)0z., or just under sdwt. Value
of gold, £11,536; divs., £3OOO ; cash in hand, £521.
therefore the return to shareholders was over 26 per
cent, of the value of the g< Id won. Not bad at all; but
with a mine with such f r.n itions, what is wanted is to
push ahead with the shaft, gjt a big - reserve of stone, put
on good battery power, opm up 200 ft. lifts, and then
make the mill do a big tonnage. Unfortunately tbe
ruling power on the board is wedded to old ideas and to
paying out profits as soon as earned, so it is not much
Use expecting all this.
*** . *
Of the old Glenfine South (Bitfield, Vie.)
school, only one remains oh the eo.’s board—the astute
James Rahdell. It seems well that such a change has
been made, when the balance-sheet of to-day is com-
pared with that of the past. A mine that gave £65 000
In divs, ought never to have got so financially short as
aid the Glenfine South; Started as an alluvial mine, it
Struck hen qti&rtas, find produced g"old worth over
£200,000. Last half-year it had to make calls amounting
to £2500 to open up wash once again. W. A. Bryant
brother of the manager of Main Leads North, run's the
show nowadays, Alcock having-gone to the Jubilee, and
Jonah Ward being interested in trying to prop up the
bottom of the Berry Extended. Bryant is modest about
his wash. He tells that two trucks and 12 dishes gave
16)dwt. gold, and is content to .only say that he now
sees that the ground is payable. What occasions pain to
the boys of the new brigade on the board is the unreadi-
ness of the public to invest iri Glenfine South.
No. 2 South Great Eastern, Gympie (Q.), has
had its general meeting. There was no row this time
about the amalgam reserve. Continued absence of speci-
men stone has wiped the reserve out long since. There is
the same need to-day, however, as there was a year ago
for hotter methods fit the 2 S. Great Eastern. But nobody
takes all interest ih reform nowadays. Those who are
left in feel too sick.
* * 4 *
One of the Melbourne broking crowd was politely
told “No ” by the Mt. Lyell secretary and clerks when he
wanted a bit of news about the developments at North
Lyell. His. wail thereupon was that co. didn’t send news
to Exchange, to be posted there. But did he intend to
undertake that philanthropic duty, or would he have told
his .priricipals first ? Anyhow, he wasn't given the news,
jtnd there has been d hullabaloo. Yet, for once at least,
the co.’s officials did right. There was not the least call
to give news to a broker, who, in that capacity, wanted it,
when the intelligence was not being handed out to the
shareholders.
* * * *
An East Coast Tasmanian, who says he doesn’t
want to be compelled to quit that pleasant part through
the odor from defunct wild-cats, writes.: —“This place is
at present over-run with ‘ experts,’ who are whipping-up
a tin boom all they know. Speculators should, however,
keep in mind that of the many ‘ dividends-must-soon-
follow ’ claims on this coast that have been floated within
the la.it few years, most have closed down, and others are
hanging on by the skin of their teeth. Among the former
are Cream Creek (twice floated), Star of Peace (ditto),
Liberator, Cambria, &c. Where also are the dividends
from the Australian, the Hunt P.A., Frome River, &c. ?
One can count the div.-payers on the fingers of one hand.
Among others just floated is the Weldbrook, near Weld-
borough. This was floated about five years ago. Co.
kept wages men on for about 15 months; then it
Was worked on tribute ; finally, about a year ago, it
tvas sold by tender and brought £6s—plant, water rights,
laces, everything; Now it has been refloated (after the
last 66: ana tribiitorS and purchasers have picked oilt
Such eygS as it ever, possessed), with a capital of
£21,000, . and more noise is being made over it than
was made around the walls of Jericho. It is reported
in the papers that local residents are falling over
themselves to buy shares. This is quoted as a proof that
the show is held in high estimation by them. Why
local residents did not offer a bigger price than
£65 some 12 months ago for it, is not explained.
At writing, shares are £l5, making the mine nominally
worth £52,500, or over 800 times as much as it was bought
for a little more than a year ago. Preliminary puffs are
beginning to appear about the Laffer —a little one-horse
show, that has been battling along for years, just manag-
ing to pay its way. How it can be turned into a large
yielder is a mystery. Interesting, too, to note the
efforts to focus public attention on the old Sarah
Ann claim, situate at Main Creek, about three
miles from Derby. This has been lying idle for
years. People began to call it the North Briseis, but
evidently came to the conclusion that that horse was
befng ridden to death. It has starved out a number of
parties in its time, but on paper it is still ‘ promising,’
and more. On same cre'-k is the Abbotsford. This was
sold about 18 months ago for £35, and has since been
worked by tributors, who have hardly made tucker since
Xmas. Preliminary puffs are out, which is a certain sig n
that business is meant. It seems not to be generally
understood on the mainland that the Briseis and
Pioneer formations are deep tin drifts, whereas the above
and other shows are on high country, and are but small
creek runs (and to a great extent worked out at that),
and cannot have a 16ng life.”
* * * *
Brisbane’s new paper, the Daily Mail, isn’t in
the profit-paying stage yet. Co.’s second report, just
issued, shows a deficit so far of £12,182—£5000 repre-
sented by a paper item, “copyright and organisation”;
the other £7182 debit on profit and loss account. Co. has
a paid capital of £10,277, and lately allotted £15,000 of
debentures, on which instalments of £7856 have been
paid. Besides the instalments that haven’t matured, co.
has £3336 cash in hand to play with.
Bendigo (Vic.) is almost as treacherous as to its
surface as a sleeping volcano. Perhaps there are not
very many covered up mining shafts around the city—
but no one knows exactly how many there are or where
they are. Recently a blacksmith threw down a heavy
drill in his smithy and was staggered to see a 2ft. hole
gape before him and his drill disappear into the bowels of
the earth. When he recovered, he plumbed the shaft and
found that he had been taking chances for years with a
60ft. cavern beneath his feet.
•» * * *
At South Melbourne the other day, the patentee
of the “A.Z.” Agitator gave an interesting demonstra-
tion of what his invention can do with 30 tons of sand in
a vat containing 35 tons of water. Officially described—
“ The apparatus is made to fit all vats, from 15in. diame-
ter and 6in. deep to 26ft. diameter and Bft. deep. The
only moving part is a propellor of the auger type, which
is fastened to a vertical shaft and fitted to work freely
inside a cylinder open at both ends. The cylinder is
raised, in working, from the bottom of the vat according
to the nature of the stuff requiring agitation. Two
deflecting plates of a special type extend across
the vat (nearly to the bottom of it), and it is the combina-
tion of propeller, cylinder and deflecting- plates which
give the important result achieved. The agitation can
be stopped in a moment, and started in a moment.
There is no time lost in re-starting. The apparatus is also
an aerator, and te ration takes place during the agitation,
which means a saving of cost, the oxyg-en being supplied
free.” Claimed for the “A.Z.” contrivance that it will
effect a great saving- of time for the complete intersection
of the cyanide solution with the tailings. The maximum
result of gold is obtained as quickly as possible. Practical
nf M ,1 be P el ’ suad , e . d that the inventor (A. Z.
Ciarif of Melbourne) has hit the mark, and on the
strength of his circular and photos, of his first apparatus
the h pftent ady reCeiVed an offer for his rights in
(< * * * *
,;‘Y, u , lcan ” : Private advices from Perth (W.A.)
°iw r lY' R - J / enzies ( a f te »’ whom Menzies, W.A., was
called) falling soft again, to the tune of £BO,OOO, in the
Madagascar mining boom. Menzies discovered the Lady
«ilo n w I 1” ( T’ A-) ’ ? ufc of which he ff°t a respectable
pile, but he struck persistent ill-luck on the Barossa (S.A.)
fields, and dropped it all again. Near the close of the
S African war he left Westralia in charge of a shipment of
horses, packed his bag’ for Madagascar.
South Kalgurli (W.A.) is having a rough time
vyth its new treatment plant. This consists of eight
Merton furnaces, built back to back, and three No. 8
lirupp nulls with usual accessories. Part of plant for-
merly did duty oil Lake View Consols, and lay on scrap
heap for years. As re-erected, it was expected to treat
100 tons daily, at very low cost. Whole system is auto-
matic, but, apparently, something is faulty, as, so far,
only about one-third predicted quantity is being treated.
1 iant may eventually be put to rights, but scrip, in any
case, seems to be over-valued.
***■*■
Turondale is about all that is left of the Turon
River (N.S. W.) rush of the ’so’s—a straggling village of
about 25 houses, whose people live mainly on the memo-
ries of the times when 5000 whites and a couple of thousand
Chinese made things lively. The mines there and at
Quartz Ridge (six miles out) have been abandoned for
years; but a bit of Victorian capital has lately been
risked, and the old shows are being overhauled again, with
no lively prospects so far.
* * * »
OI YY a,ld (M.L.) dredges, so far as they are
owned by co. s, don’t appear to be filling shareholders’
any great rush. They have won £2Ol 371
of gold, and have paid £48,G0l in divs. Fifteen com-
panies remained on the div. list at the end of last
year , 35 have liquidated since 1890 (the business began
on the Southland flats in ’9B). Only one co. has, so far,
capital, and that one has now liquidated,
while the return on the capital still in the business is
only a little over 11 percent. Gehefallv speaking, it costs
13oz. a week to run a dredge in Southland,
* * * *
Hannan s Star, Kalgoorlio, is run on 011061*
lines. Early in June it was locally reported that rich ore
had been struck in drive at 300 ft. on Morrison’s lode On
inquiry all knowledge of find was officially denied ; vet
London manager had a cable that lode was 18ft. wide
the eastern sid£ worth 14dwfc Bgr. for 9ft. Gin. wide', and
later that lode was sft., and worth 34dwt. figr. Shares at
that time were between Bs. 6d. and 95., and have since
dropped back to 4s. After this experience investors had
better be careful of dealing’ in this scrip, as mine is sealed
to inquirers.
“ The only Society person luing in the Artists’
Exhibition this year is Mrs. Albert Miller. Iler
strikingly good likeness has been done by Mrs. J.
Barrett* The dame snowed early, and her smooth
white hair is drawn silkily back from a firm and
vigorous face. The Miller clan is large, and it
takes its frilly chums along to view the lady as
she is hung up at the show. The Society girl
doesn’t sit much now for the easel brethren/ She
finds the posing a bore. Miss Geva Stanley’s pic-
ture was the last to see the light at the Gallery,
and then it didn’t show her countenance with any
excessive kindliness.
“Society gathered thick at the ‘Jericho’ show.
Man is a godly character in the story, and
every point in his appraisement Was Waggishly
applauded by the male portion of
audience. ‘Man must rule’ drew a guffaw.
Woman is shown as a wicked worldling, gam-
bling and marrying for hard cash. One of her
wears an eye-pane; All smoke and luxuriate
on lounges full length, after heavy Bridge losses.
Miss Beatrice Day looks more than twenty-
five years of age and three years of matrimony.
Miss Winifred Fraser fails in chiffon expectancies,
but she treads the stage as if it were her own little
back room, and is a treat as far as voice and the
feminine whimsicalities of her part go. -A wonder-
ful supply of wired rose and wattle spray was
passed up to Miss Day and Miss Temple at each
curtain.
“ The pill and phial brethren have had a dance
on the top of the dental hop. Mayor Pleasance
(himself a pill-dispenser—his pharmacy is in
Collins-street) looked in on the scene and cracked
brotherly and professional jokes with his homoeo-
pathic and other pals.
“The Vic. Artists are forward with a mask
ball, timed for August 3.
“At the South Melbourne Mayoral hop a
pretty brunette decided to retire from active ser-
vice and be a wall-flower, whilst a faithful friend
hurried home to get a pair of old, commodious
shoes for her. The new and lovely ones were so
tight that she kicked them off for her feet’s sake.
“A wealthy Bendigo bachelor, past his green
youth, shortly leads to the altar a bright, chirpy
little widow'—that is, a law-widow, which kind
does not go into weeds and mourning stationery.
“The French Maid (Miss Irene Dillon) at the
‘ Players’ ’ amateur performance came' a cropper
in her first whirl of dash and devilment on Friday
night, but she sprang back at once to the perpen-
dicular, and smiled reassuringly at the audience,
and danced with desperate vim to the end of her
starry course. But back of her lay a grimace of
pain, and close watching revealed how she
endeavored to spare as much as possible an aching
limb. The Bijou badly needs renovating and
Spring cleaning Audiences crowded to that
amateur ‘French Maid,’ and packed the dingy
stalls way back, but snortfully.
“ After all the blow about Victorian voices,
where do they exercise ? Amateur comic opera,
open to all mummers, doesn’t get them. The
choirs don’t. Is each canary made a Melba of in
her own ’umble thatched cottage?
“ Mrs. Charles Moore gathered the she-generals
of the Women’s Political League together on
Thursday eve for a general account of stewardship
and for two rounds of buttered male oratory and
unspecified rounds of toast and coffee-roll, also
buttered. Woolly M.L.A. Fairbairn talked some.
He spoke cheerfully against she-suffrage, but went
on to say that since the sex had the Federal vote
(the evil haying happened and being unalterable
as it were) it behoved them to watch and work in
the interests of their country and their homes.
(Applause.) That is to say, his crowd w'ere against
allowing women the vote, but since women had
got it from the Labor people, they should vote for
his crowd. And the women applauded ! It shows
with what a small bit of intelligence Providence
can make a fashionable woman.
“ The Dante Society shows its head again after
a period of oblivion, and says, in a still, small
voice, that it chatters on Wednesday (26th) at the
Austral Salon, where all young associations exer-
cise their little tongues.
“News arrives of another Victorian widow
bidding for second martyrdom abroad. This
time it is Mrs. Eager, a daughter of Mr. W.
M'Culloch, who marries a Mr. Thornhill. Mr.
Thornhill has many green acres—or his dad has,
and that is almost as good.
“ The Isaac Isaacs are definitely breaking away
from the household pots and pans, and are lodged
cn famille at the Grand.
“The butchers have a grievance. Some good
old customers have caught a Yank fad, and the
cry is, ‘No red meat.’ Tripe, trotters, and other
chaste white trifles of meaty consumption are in
demand, but as cattle can’t furnish all tripe or
trotter and no beef-steak, the majority of the red
beast will be wasted if the fad spreads.
“A big chiffon merchant has been feeling
the pinch of the times in ‘ the Lane,’ and the
extravagant needs of a large, robust family. The
old home where money talked in tapestry, and
damask, and rosewood, was sold off not long ago,
and the garter merchant drifted with his domestic
dependencies into flat life. Now- the girls are
opening a suite of rooms where the dressed dummy
revolves on its patent axis, and fashion journals
lie in fresh piles on the wicker tables. By the
way, an ansemie johnnie (aesthetic is the feminine
epithet) plans out clothes for lovely woman in this
city. He studies one’s curves and complexion,
and designs chiffons ala Worth. Another male
person in the trouser line (his ad. is solely for
trousers) has been turning out bridal outfits, and
the legitimate petticoat-makers are in tears over
this rivalry.
“A leading mummer (one of the imported)
thanks Heaven her husband failed at being an
actor. ‘He went on the stage because he loved
me, and he quitted it because I loved him and
couldn’t bear to see so fine a fellow wasting his
time there.’ That’s how she puts it. He is now
in America doing w-ell at law, and the fair one
lives partly on food and partly on the hope of a
speedy reunion.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Modern Applications of Electricity.— ln the use
of electrical methods of treatment for medical purposes
Sydney has lagged far behind other cities, and those who
visit England and the Continent, cannot fail to be struck
by the costly and elaborate nature of the appliances
employed. The work done in such establishments,
supervised by some of the most eminent English, French
and German physicians, has long passed the experimental
stage, and is now an exact science. Phototimrapy, or
Light treatment, Electrotherapy, or Electrical treatment,
and Vibrotherapy or Massage, are three of the most use-
ful aids in the treatment. A suite of treatment rooms,
known as Moore House, 16 and 18 Castlereagh-street,
have been fitted out with the most modern appliances
obtainable by the proprietors, Electrotherapy Ltd., and
nothing- has been left undone to make the establishment
the most perfect this side of the world. Inspection is
cordially invited, and everything of interest will be shown
and explained to visitors by the Manager, Mr. G. L. N.
Harvison, and his assistants.*


“G.H.” : Be a Pale Australia. Walked
along Exhibition-street, Melbourne, the other
day, from Lonsdale-street towards Carlton. Had
my hat knocked off by a Chinaman, who rushed
out of an alley with a large, newly-made meat-safe
swaying on his shoulder. Further on, three ice-
cream miscreants, armed with two bad violins and
a worse harp, were putting one of Gilbert and
Sullivan’s operas to a painful death. Several
Assyrian children occurred next, with two frowsy
she-parents in the background. A Jap happened.
He was about four feet high, but he had been
reading the war cables, and his upper weskit pro-
jected about seven furlongs ahead of him. _ He
had gold rings on most of his fingers, and, inci-
dentally, wore goloshes. Subsequently I met sun-
dry Chinese half-caste children, from eighteen
inches to two feet high, all wearing loud blue
pants. Also met a villainous-looking edition of
Ram Chunder, with a turban that hadn’t been
washed since Antony sent the theatre tickets to
Cleopatra. Three or four adult Chows also trans-
pired, one peddling feather dust-whisks, one sell-
ing silk handkerchiefs, and another clutching a
bank-book. I saw a good many whites who didn’t
call for remark—and I saw two other whites. One
was drunk.
“ Caro ” lays down the law as to gems :
Like colors in fabrics, gems must be suited to the per-
sonalities who wear them. The most beautiful of all
gems, the ruby, if worn by a brunette, sparkles like a
bit of gaudy glass. On a blonde it looks bizarre ; but on
a mezzo-tinted maid its true fire will flame and smoulder
—wine in a goblet of fire. But it is with the diamond
women make most mistakes. It looks almost universally
out of place—a pitiless stone, to be worn only by your
pale, gold-glinted blonde, whose heart could be accommo-
dated easily in an egg-cup. Only brunettes of “pallor”
can wear pearls as they should be worn —softly and in
fragile setting ; on a blonde they resemble blobs of candle
grease. To wear emeralds you must be of the children of
the world—bright, trusting, generous, to give divine fire
to this most coveted gem. If you have not ruddy hair,
tinted skin, and blood like to electricity, let sapphires be.
Turquoises—those great, uncut beauties that every sen-
sualist hungers for—must be worn by your silky woman,
who is hot and cold, but never indifferent —one whose
eyes and mouth are constantly at war. They are the
most passionate of all stones, with the exception of l he
opal; on a pallid wearer they deaden like beads. Opals,
with their allurement of superstition, are almost the
strangest of all. On a cold, material being they wane and
die to grey ashes, but worn by a highly-sensitive, hysteri-
cal, selfish woman they are alive, and as waves of emotion
sweep through the nerves, will burn, glow, and gleam
like globes of fire. Garnets are for the saucy maids—the
ballet girls of the world who play only in the sun. Topaz
for the placid inanities ; amber (though not a gem) for the
cruel-hearted; cairngorms for the studious. But study
and you will see that there is a soul, a fire, a something in
the heart of every stone, to be called forth only by a
fitting personality.
V
Sh
<iL
gjfl
MEDLOW BATH HYDRO, Blue Mountains, n.s.w.
77/E ONLY WINTER RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
IT is well known that the climate of Sydney is delightful in winter, but it is not so well known
that the Blue Mountain air is best of all—crisp, bracing atmosphere, sometimes frosty,
sometimes snowy, but sun, frost or snow is always delightful. MEDLOW BATH HYDRO
is a Health Home, electrically lighted and heated throughout; resident doctor; baths and
massage; most careful cooking, both rich or dietetic as required ; an entertainer for general
amusement; a library of excellent books, and all the world-wide journals and papers.
GO, IF YOUR DOCTOR SENDS YOU;
GO, IF YOU WANT A SPELL f or
GO, FOR A BENEFICIAL HOLIDAY.
MEDLOW BATH is at your door, so why go to New Zealand or Europe? Plenty of you
business-men are making money at the expense of your health. Spend a little on your health as
a good investment.
TERMS—From £2 2s. upwards.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
prize Medals.
Works s Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment.
NOT BEING
A BELT
it will not burn or blister the
skin— There is nothing to
wear round the body to
foster germs—lt is sure,
safe, speedy, »ecret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
£1 of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
WRITE
for my new book ( illustrated) “Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and wha*- you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON;
M.R.C.S
Eng.
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE.
CURES
k . t 4FLUEN2^
Nine Facts of Vital Importance to Every Sufferer from Blood Disorders,
FACT ONE.—It take* time to tell whether you are per-
manently cured by a treatment, or merely patched up for
the present.
FACT TWO.—The Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical
Institute Is the only Medical Association In existence that has
been treating Blood Poison long enough to know that its
patients are cured to stay cured.
FACT THREE.—The Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical
Institute has many patients who were cured by its magical
treatment eighteen years ago, who are to-day grand and well.
FACT FOUR.—Many patients that were cured by the Free-
man & Wallace Institute a quarter of a oentury ago now have
children grown to manhood and womanhood in perfect health
and without a blemish.
FACT FIVE.—The Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical
Institute is the largest and only successful combine in Aus-
tralia that makes the cure of Blood Poison a specialty.
FACT SlX.—Patients oured by the Freeman & Wallace
Electro-Medical Institute are constantly passing successfully
the very rigid examinations of the most conservative life
Insurance companies, and are passing 1 the examinations for
admission into the army and navy of the Empire.
FACT SEVEN.—If you take the Freeman & Wallace Electro-
Medical treatment under Our guarantee you are absolutely
sure of a cure, or your money back.
FACT ElGHT.—Every other method of treatment known
to the medical profession gives but temporary relief.
FACT NINE.—Good health Is the most Important thing In
the worid to any person.
THE
ABOVE WINK FACTS ABE ABSOLUTELY
UNDENIABLE.
TESTIMONIALS.
Bairnsdale, Ist December, 1903.
I saw your advertisement in the paper
as to cure of Blood Poison, and desire to
seek your advice. I have talked with
several persons who speak highly of the
Institute, and one of them said you
effected a permanent cure in his case. 1
have doctored in vain for some years to
rid myself of this terrible disease, and
have spent no end of money ; I have now
decided to adopt your treatment, as I see
you guarantee to cure.
(Signed) W. B. ARTHUR.
ANOTHER GRATEFUL PATIENT
WRITES:
“ Your last course of medicine I finished
some three weeks ago, and am feeling
fine. The horror of Blood Poison has
. about left me. Occasionally, however,
I can notice a faint feeling, as though my
throat was becoming sore again. I
noticed this when lifting something
heavy, or whenever I sti'ain the muscles
of my neck. I have no other indication
except this, and there is only one living
soul and you who know what I have gone
through. I think another course will
about banish all remaining symptoms. I
thank you for your kindly efforts, and
you may depend upon it I shall always
have pleasure in recommending your
Institute.” ’ __
Mr. DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P., at one
time a Minister of the Crown, a well-
known politician of Sydney, says :
“I have undergone a course of your
Electro-Medical treatment for an attack
of Lumbago and Kidney Pains. Thanks
to the efficacy of that treatment I am
now considerably improved.”
f
§Mfis
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL INSTITUTE solicits the most
obstinate cases, and challenges the world for a case it cannot cure. This disease has always baffled
the skill of the most eminent physicians. For many years the Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical
Institute has made a specialty of treating this disease, and it has unlimited capital behind its
unconditional guarantee. . , ... . ~
You can be treated at home for the same price, and with the same guarantee. With those
who prefer to go to it the Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical Institute will contract to cure them,
or pay railroad and hotel bills, and make no charge failing to cure.
The Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical Institute has a specific for blood poison, and cures it
even in its worst forms. It is a perfect antidote for the powerful virus that pollutes the blood and
penetrates to all parts of the system. Unless you get this poison out of your blood it will ruin you,
and bring disgrace and disease upon your children, for it can be transmitted from parent to child.
Write for our FREE home treatment book, “ Clinical Experiences,” 600 pages, if you have not
already received it, and learn all about oontagious blood poison. If you want medioal advice, give
a history of your case, and our Physician-in-Ohief, who is registered by Australian, English, and
Amerioan Medioal Boards, will furnish all the Information you wish, without any oharge whatever.
Your health depends on The Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medioal Institute, and on them
alone. Its oure is a certainty. No other method of treatment will cure you.
1-Ve Cure with Certain Success,
DEADLY VARICOCELE, RUPTURE, PILES,
PRO STATIC AILMENTS, INSOMNIA,
LOCAL INFLAMMATIONS, WEAKNESS,
NERVOUSNESS, LOSS OF VITAL POWER,
BLADDER and KIDNEY AILMENTS.
Facts that defy argument.
'VTTE are treating thousands of cases
’’ annually, and is it not reasonable
to suppose that we understand such cases
better than those who are treating- only
a fevv hundred ? Practice makes perfect
in any line, and it is none the less true in
the treatment, of disease. You get the
benefit of Experience when you place
your case in our hands. Do not despair.
Order your treatment at once, and let us
add your name to our long list of cures.
*
If the slightest doubt exists in your
mind that our treatment will not cure
you, it is a duty you owe to yourself to
write to some of the references we herein
publish, and send an addressed envelope
for reply. Ask any of the attestants who
have given these testimonies to us if they
think we can benefit you. We court the
closest investigation. Our Parcel Post
System is a blessing to all sick men living
in centres far from medical men and aid.
Thousands of men would now be in their
graves had we not so treated them.
* * *
We will explain how and why we can
cure you, and why DISEASES OF MEN'
require the knowledge and skill of Ex-
pert Master Specialists. There are cer-
tainly grave reasons why certain diseases
demand special treatment. Where they
are of extreme delicacy, involving deli-
cate parts of the human anatomy, a
Specialist only should undertake to cure.
Inexperienced treatment is malpractice
in its worst form, and may result in death.
*** ' *
We have several expert Specialists who
are paid high salaries in order to treat
you. Come personally if you can ;if
you cannot call, write fully the nature
and symptoms of your ailment ; a quick
and certain cure is always possible by
our perfect Correspondence System. A
man may be treated in his own house by
this method as well as if he visited the
Specialists personally. We make no
charge for friendly talks. Bead the
testimonies here published. They prove
our skill and honesty, and guarantee our
reliability in intricate medical cases.
ELECTROMEDICAL and
SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute. ir
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., Physician-in-Chief. hhu mi
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Principal Department of Women. MELBOURNE
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark*
ably well on it”
The British Medical Journal
saysßenger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.”
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, sad the AGES.
SSNGBH’g FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &0., E¥BK?WEF,RS.
Benoer’s Food has attained
Its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”


DUNKLINC’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph , j
KULBQUGSE
9'
un Si e i 011 ace Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
—» £3.
Warranted equal to any dSIO lOs.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
Henry Skinner,
Ciarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. IUhS. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
kPNDOK
This
Trade
Mark
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c. f <gc.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Solb Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
75 King Street, Sydney.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining- membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
1 sight and hearing, destroys
[ the sense of taste and smell,
' renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis- i
sues, consumes the nasal car- j
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price, complete with 4 mon ths’
treatment by mail, 10s.
I
MEDICATOR.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Oollins-st., Melbourne.
rimy
mi
By using the Wilson Com*
mon Sense Ear Brums,
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
Ideaf or suffer from dis-
tressing head noises write
for full particulars. Thou-
sands hare found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress-Star Novelty Co.,
229-231 Collins-at,, Melb.
44
f**®
C**°’
P p.0 f
cS®*'
6.0
&
The Crackajack Illustrated below presents not only the very latest improvements.
l * Bd h£autlful ‘°»ed Mouth Orga. made. ' '
The Reeds are of best hell metal ahoy, tuned by experts. The frames
are o/ thoroughly seasoned hardwood, the reid plates are solid
brass, and every reed tongue is securely riveted. The
Tone Is perfected by a system of voicing the
reeds, which makes it rich and powerful
in volume, and the reeds are
subjected to a process of
special tuning, so that
each note through-
out the entire
register is ab-
solutely perfect
Tha covers are
of heavy brasa.
heavily plated and
artistically engrav-
ed. It is impossible
to fully describe these
instruments and tbeir
musical qualities.
Mouth Organs
m
&
They mast be seen
acd used to be
appreciated. We
can recommend
them as being
superior to aD
other Mouth
Organs in
appearance.
quality and
tone.
Posted to ant
address in the
WORLD TOR 40.
extra.
Made In Four Style*
No. I Grackaiack Professional. 40 Reeds 31-
No. 2 Grackalack Senior, 20 Reeds • 21-
No. 3 Grackaiack Junior, 20 Reeds • 1/6
No. 4 Boss Gracker - • • 1/-
CO, 276=278 Collins St., Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
la Bulk and Bottle *ro universally acknowledged
‘ l '° ejefy coM:3PJßa*nxiojsr.
WINES
the Best Brandt Only of
Sc
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, ka.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
With it, Wan is a Success; Without it, a Failure.
of brain and body in man is Nature’s highest
perfected work. Nearly all men have been fitted with a
constitution fit to build such a structure upon, but through
foolish dissipations have wasted the material Nature gave
them. Men live too rapid these days; young fellows,
through over-exertions, lose all their energy ere they
attain middle age. There is no occasion now for any
man to be less than Nature intended him, for with
this Grand Appliance . . .
TN
Dr. McLaughlin’s
.. Electric Belt ..
He can regain his Lost Vitality. He can
obtain Energy and Strength simply by
wearing this Belt for a few hours each
night until he feels he has recovered what
he had lost. It cures any case of Lost Vigor, Urinary Troubles,
Functional Decay, Varicocele, etc., and will drive away Rheu-
matic or Sciatic Pains, I y ame Back, Indigestion, and all Liver,
Kidney, and Stomach Troubles. It is the Medical Marvel of
the Age for all Weak Men and Sickly Women.
NEHVO-VITAL WEAKNESS.
, . . BOURKE, N.S.W.
r, . Blrs >— l cannot cease praising: your marvellous Belt for it 3 curative powers ; it is a
Goa-send to Australasia it was to me at all events. The benefit it has imparted to my
system compels me to acknowledge to the world its proficiency as a cure for any ail-
ment or complaint. It has undoubtedly saved me from an untimely grave. No tongue
can express sufficient words in its praise. You are at liberty to use this statement as
you wish, and any information as to the above will be gladly imparted.
Yours faithfully, M. N. HA YARD.
Surely you cannot doubt the evidence such
as we are enabled to send you of the
great cures Electricity is making.
BLADDER TROUBLES, antS INDIGESTION.
„ ~ . Lucknow, GIPPSLAND, VIC.
Gentlemen, —It is with much pleasure that I write these few lines to let you know
that lam quite cured of my Indigestion and other complaints. I can eat anything
now without being afraid of any disagreeable after-effects. I have left the Belt off for
the last three months, and all my friends say that I am looking- splendid.
Thanking you again for the good your Belt has done me, I remain,
Yours very truly, DANIEL ARCHER.
Free Book.
We want every sufferer to read our
96-page Illustrated Book, and learn
the truth about the wonders of Elec-
tricity, and the many ailments that
are being cured daily by its use. For men who have lost their Strength
and Vitality, for men who have Pains and Aches, it will be found invalu-
able. We will send you this Book FRFF and Post Paid on application
FREE ADVICE.
Advice and Consultation costs you
nothing. We give you the benefit
of knowing what your trouble is and
learning all about this great remedy Free of Charge. Call any week-day from
9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. Our Specialist is at your servioe.
OUR SPECIAL DIAGNOSIS SYSTEMS enables us to treat your
trouble IN YOUR OWN HOME the same as If you
visited our Specialist. ALL ADVICE FREE.
™?DR. MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
100 W. Market St.,
SYDNEY:
Ax® at 167*. Swaneten Street, Melbourne; 64 Willfa Street, Wellington, N.Z.
80 William Street, Perth, W.A. William Charlts Crawford.
ijßj
.
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
62-58 Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAM3 and CO.,
Brisbane.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St,, Sydney,
Sols Australian Agknt
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
I &r beware or imitations, -bo
"IACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
The London Treatment
FOB THK OURK OF
ALCOHOLISM and NARCOTISM.
THIS is a GENUINE Up-to-date and
PERMANENT CURE for the Excessive
Use of Drugs, and Drink Habit. This is the
latest and most satisfactory treatment that has
ever been placed before the public of Austra-
lasia, and is in no way connected with the
so-called. Gold Cure. Pamphlet containing
full particulars will be sent post free
Address : H. W. BUTTREY,
Home Bush, Masterton, N.Z.
(P.O. Box 121, Masterton, N.Z.)
Don't
waste time in
experimen ting.
Thirty Years 11
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
£uugTorvfc
to be the WORLD'S OURe\
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
can bs obtained from
any Chemist or l tore,
and Saves Many
Lives.
FLUID
SIA
For indigestion
Biliousness and
Acidity.
Allays Feverish Conditions due
to the Vaccination and
Teething of infants.
"SOLD THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
A Policy for the
Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d. : POSTED, Bd.


“ Melb.” : The other day I travelled by
train to Footscray. As the train was moving on,
a woman yelled out of the window to a porter :
“ Hi! that woman crossing the bridge there, in
the crowd, has stolen my umbrella ! ” The porter,
quick as lightning, shouted to a woman with two
umbrellas, “Drop that!” She didn’t drop the
best one.
YOU
With Wounds that discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen, that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds; the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of the power to walk.
You may have attended various hospitals and had medical
advice and been told your case is hopeless, or advised to
subm.t to amputation ; but do not, for I can cure you. I
don't say perhaps, but I will. Because others have failed
itisno reason I should. Send at once for a Box of Albert s
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills, which is a cei tain cure of
BadLegs,Housemaid'sKnee,UlceratedJoints,Carbuncles,
Bunions, Ringworm, Poisoned Hands, and Insect Bites.
Of all Chemists, Stores, &c. Prepared by ALBERT, 73,
Farringdon Street, London, England. Purchaser? should
look ror-vthe Registered Trade Mark of the Grassho- er
on a green label on each box. (Registered Copvri ht).
The Finest Preparation ever introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 2/6, Posted 2/9. Give it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
C. Stratmann’s *
FINE....
Made on the
Premises
CHOCOLATES and
SWEETiTEATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
f The Captain
of the Household
AGOOD General knows that
hiss brave fellows will have
little chance of winning the
battle if he negjects to provide
them with the best, the most
modern weapons. In the same
way the good housewife sooner or
later realises that, to overcome the
horde of maladies which contin-
ually menace the health of her
little band, she must provide them
with that perfect product of
modem healing science, Scott’s
Emulsion of cod liver oil with
glycerine and the hypophosphites
of lime and soda. Scott’s Emul-
sion is a remedy which has no
equal for combating coughs and
colds, lung, throat, skin and blood
troubles, wasting diseases, and
weakness of any kind, whether in
adults or infants.
a
1
. listen for a
| moment to what
Mrs. George Ave-
ry wrote us on
this subject. Her
letter is dated
July 12th, 1904,
from Wide Street,
West Kempsey,
N.S.W. —
“My little
daughter, Edith,
aged four years,
recently caught
a severe cold,
which unfortun-
ately developed
into a bad attack
of bronchitis.
From the first
she took Scott’s
Emulsion readily
and soon began
to like it and look
for it. It eased
her cough and
breathing, redu-
ced all feverish-
ness, and in a
little while it ef-
fected a thorough
and complete
cure. She is now a
fine, healthy and
strong child.”
This power of making a general
assault upon disease is character-
istic of Scott’s Emulsion. The
reason is that
Scott’s Emulsion
reinforces the vitality and thus
compels all disease or weakness of
whatsoever kind, to give ground
first, then to decamp altogether.
Write to-day for a free sample bottle
{enclosing: *d. for postage and mention-
ing this paper) to Scott & Bowne, Iytd.,
% 483, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Joseph H. Longford, concerning the “ Commer-
cial Morality of the Japanese,” in the Con-
temporary Review : —
The average Japanese trader continues to be what he
has ever been, and to-day, when Japan’s foreign trade has
more than quintupled on what it was 30 years ago, when
she is enjoying a degree of commercial and industrial
prosperity then scarcely visioned even in dreams by the
most enthusiastic optimists, the old story, told over and
over again, not only by the direct sufferers, but in a long
series of consular reports and in the writings of
such great authorities as Chamberlain and Brinkley,
of shamefully violated obligations, continues to
come with wearisome and disheartening reiteration
from our own commercial representatives in Japan. . . .
Neither wealthy self-interest, nor patriotism, has even
modified their inherited and deeply-ingrained incapacity
for grasping the primary tenets of commercial integrity.
Whether as buyers or sellers, they are equally distrusted
by their foreign compeers. No foreign bank in Japan
accepts their bills ; no Japanese bank, unless it is protected
by the most abundant collateral security. Not a bale of
imported goods would be delivered to them without pre-
vious payment of the full price. Not a bale of silk, not a
chest of tea, not a roll of matting, would be received,
even from those whose annual sales may be reckoned
in hundreds of thousands of dollars, until every bale,
pound, and yard had been submitted to the closest
expert inspection. The most formal contracts are unblush-
ingly repudiated, or, at best, their execution postponed
when their prompt fulfilment involves a loss of even con-
temptible insignificance.
■NATURE'S PLEASANT LAXATIVE'
A delightful liquid laxative and
the only true remedy for
habitual constipation and the
many ills dependent on a weak
or inactive condition of the Kid-
neys, Liver and Bowels. Plea-
sant to the taste, and prompt,
gentle and thorough in action.
LIFORNIA SYRUP of FIGS
is now without doubt the most
widely appreciated household
medicine. Doctors everywhere
recommend California Syrup of
Figs because it strengthens the
organs, whilst at the same
time thoroughly but gently
cleansing the sluggish system.
CARTRIDGES
ARE well known in Australasia. Their steady
advancement in popular favor is due to
their sure fire, uniform and accurate qual-
ties. U.M.C. stamped on a cartridge head is a
guarantee of uniformity. All dealers carry
U.M.C. cartridges because they sell well and
satisfy their customers.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
- ■''V'u
mm
ISB Horae-Pewsr Elactrle Plant, operating- at
Tha Cathcart Proprietary Cold Mine, Ararat, Victoria.
Ganz & Co.
LIMITED
BUDAPEST, HUNGARY.
Complete Electric
Lighting, Power anft
Traction Plants .
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
The Austral Otis
Engineering Co.
Cr. Hannah & Kavanagh Sts., South Melbourne. LTD -
H'fflTt BRAND.
Fop Infant Feeding
it is Perfect.
andffim\tf/t
'UNSWEETENED
It does not
thicken. It
is absolutely pure.
It is Sterilized,
As Supplied to H.B.M.
Navy & Army.
FOSSEL.L & CO., LID.,
liondon, England.
Solo Agents lop New South Wales e-BURNS, PHILP & 80., Ltth,
Maoriland’s Load of Cohens.
Premier Seddon (M.L.) has been telling the
Employers’ Association that “despite increased
wages the workers found themselves no better off
than formerly, on account of the increased cost of
living. People not employers or workers scooped
the money.” A few days before Seddon said this,
the chairman of the Bank of New Zealand had
remarked that “the great prosperity of farmers,
pastoralists, and dairymen is prompting them to
pay excessive prices for land.” Also —but the
chairman didn’t mention that—somebody seems
to be paying excessive prices for money; anyway,
the Bank of N.Z. shows a return of about 40 per
cent, on its shareholders’ funds, while in Aus-
tralia it’s a good bank that shows 7 or 8 per
cent.; and this vast profit is going, to a great
extent, to the absentee and the local do-nothing.
The other Maoriland bank, the National, which
is purely an absentee concern, makes a profit of
about 14 per cent, on its shareholders’ funds. The
Westralian Bank, working under conditions which
involve great risks, might be expected to show
great profits; yet the National Bank of Maori-
land, working under settled conditions, makes
profits nearly 50 per cent, greater than the Wes-
tralian Bank’s. Then, there is Seddon’s own
share in the business of sucking the country.
Maoriland’s public debt was £57,522,215 twelve
months ago ; and while 201 per cent, of the N.S.
Wales debt was locally raised, all but 16| per
cent, of the Maoriland debt was foreign. Further,
of the total of £57,522,215, Seddon, in the past
five years, has spent £11,429,685. Of course the
old yarn is told that all this has been sunk in
“permanent and reproductive” undertakings.
Even if this were true, it would not alter the hard
fact that it is foreign debt, and that the interest has
to be sent out of the country. Interest has to be
paid where Bull-Cohen lives ; that is to say, Bull-
Cohen’s debtor has not only to pay interest, but
to cart his goods to Europe and pay all charges
until the proceeds are put into Cohen’s hands.
And, anyway, the yarn that Cohen’s money has
been sunk in permanent and reproductive works
is just about the same lie in Maoriland as it is
elsewhere. Maoriland has to pay in interest and
charges £1,911,004 a year ; and the undertakings
in which Cohen’s money has been sunk earned
net in 1904 only £1,053,284. Cohen’s money thus
earned only £55 10s. of every £lOO Maoriland had
to pay for it. Also Maoriland has built up a local
government debt of nearly £10,000,000, which is
far ahead of even the Australian average. In
1902-3 Coghlan (in his great statistical work,
“Australia and New Zealand”) made a cal-
culation that, of £50,377,000 supposed to have
been sent out by Cohen to Maoriland, a
miserable little £383,000 had actually been
received, against £49,994,000 retained in London
to meet interest charges and pay for goods.
How the matter works out with regard to the
private Cohen can’t be said with much definite-
ness regarding Maoriland alone; but for all Aus-
tralasia Coghlan showed that for 30 years, from
1871 onward, £145,422,000 was brought into the
country (mostly in the shape of manufactures
which Australasia should have made for itself),
wlyle £183,152,000 was sent out of the country.
In other words, Australasia, in 30 years, paid the
whole £145,422,000 it had borrowed, and
£37,730,000 besides, and still owed the original
£145,422,000. And Seddon is surprised to find
that Maoriland, prosperous as it is, isn’t as really
prosperous as it ought to be, and he has wakened
up to the fact that something is gnawing at its
vitals. It apparently never occurred to him before
that even Maoriland can’t carry half-a-dozen fat
Cohens on its back without feeling tired; and
even now it is none too clear that he recognises
who the Cohens really are. At least, there is no
word yet from Seddon that he has joined the no-
more-borrowing party, and thus stopped adding
to the one vast blot on his administration.
Let Us Advertise.
It is difficult nowadays to pick up an issue of the
ordinary kind of morning paper which isn’t weep-
ing more or less about the failure to “ advertise ”
Australia. Canada advertises enormously—adver-
tises its land, its minerals, its industries, its wheat-
growing possibilities, its scenery, its climate, its
cold blue winter nose, and its snowballs—and it
gets multitudes of immigrants. Maoriland adver-
tises largely, and it gets immigrants—a wonderful
number of them, considering the great distance
that divides it from Europe. Australia doesn’t
advertise, and it gets very few immigrants.
Therefore the remedy for all the dry-rot of Aus-
tralia, according to the orthodox publication, is
advertisement. It is a supremely foolish idea, but
as a herring to draw across the trail of genuine
reform, it is probably as good as any other depre-
ciated fish. Yet few things seem more obvi-
ous than the obvious fact that no amount
of advertisement will bring people to settle
permanently in a country which hasn’t work to
offer them; to bring people here by advertise-
ment, and then leave them to starve would be
sheer inhumanity. The first essential of reform
is to make the country good enough to support
its own people; the next is to make it good
enough to attract people from outside. And
Australia hasn’t yet done the first of these ; in the
latest six years covered by Coghl.an’s statistics
(1898-1903), this country actually sent away 8582
more people than it attracted. It received im-
mense numbers certainly, but it exported still
larger numbers. The arrivals, by sea alone, in
the single State of N.S.W. amount to over
70,000 a year, but the departures, as often
as not, leave a balance against the State.
Advertising wouldn’t retain these people whose
departures make up our too-frequent surplus of
emigrants. The Australian Government might
paper the globe with pamphlets, pictures, lies and
decorations, and still the people who know the coun-
try already—the people who can’t get land because
land-grabbers are allowed to lock it up, and
who can’t get work because a miserably unpatriotic
tariff sacrifices our factories for the benefit of the
importer—would continue to drift away. The
most beautiful book of views ever printed
wouldn’t retain them, for men can’t eat views.
And when our own people, who know the coun-
try, won’t stay, it isn’t to be supposed that other
people, attracted by advertisement, would stay
either. Australia is told that it should advertise
its land; but which land—the Manifold and
Chirnside properties in Victoria, the A.A. Go.’s
and the Peel JRiver Co.’s great monopolies in
N.S.W., the locked-up Bibbenlulce estate,
and others of its kind; the S.A. Co.’s miles of
country, or the Van Diemen’s Land Co.’s gigantic
steal? Also, it is informed that it should adver-
tise its industrial prospects—the industries which
employed 154,775 male workers in 1902, and had
got down to 149,665 male workers in 1903.
These are hardly things to be advertised. Maori-
land and Canada have high tariffs, and growing
industries. Canada still has decent land to spare,
and Maoriland makes room for settlement by
breaking up its big estates. These States found
work for their own people first, and then they
advertised for good white immigrants and got
them. But the individual who would propose
advertising for white immigrants to come to Aus-
tralia’s locked-up areas and its stagnant factories
would only get his deserts if his dupes, after sizing
up the country, suspended him carefully on the
nearest telegraph-pole that was bought out of loan
moneys.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
ADELAIDE Gr. N. HURDLE RAGE, Victoria Park, S.A., August 12— 100,000 at 5/2 each.
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 11 «. 100,000 at 5/2 each.
CAULFIELD CUP, Cauldeld, Vic., October 21 ... ... ... ... 100,000 at 5/2 each.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic, November 7- } y Tgigo
IMPORTANT NOTICE
-- -5?”^ 1 . swee P s Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905 , the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d . on each
OS. Ticket , and 4t/. on each 10s . Ticket . Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
T^ SMA . Nl + GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
n^°^ dUCt t he - SW6eP - !l U T T n A e n A U^ er Same mana S ement as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
NOW OPEN
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Bee, 3d. per Parcel.
-su
I.
i
<-^ss9
KEEP YOUR
BILLS DOWN
9
ijll’fjlliilHi
Purchcsing
VOUR CLOTHING
FROM
Cincoln, Stuart it
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
No Matter Where
you live and with no more
tro"ble than the writing of
a letter you can through
the Post Office bring our
Warehouse to your door.
FAMOUS
Two Guinea
(TO MEASURE) Suits
Write for Patterns and
Self-measure FORMS.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Gore.
TUB FA.MIOXJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption, has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
/\ OF COUGHS ?
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
Terrible cough caused by measles.
Improved immediately and quickly cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send me by return post
one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, for which please
find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough, caused by
measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced to have
a small quantity of your Bronchitis Cure, took one dose,
and improved immediately. I like to always have some
on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of
what it has done for me, and you are at liberty to make
use of what 1 have written. This is not the first time it
has done me good.—Yours truly,
G. R. HOOK,
“Hilslea,” Clyde, Victoria.
ASTHMA. ■
Two children in one family cured two years
ago by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
In the best of health now.
Have never had a sign of the Asthma since.
Mr. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —It is with pleasure I can say that my two
children, whom you treated two years ago with your
medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best of health.
They have never had a sign of the asthma since. I always
keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure in the
house now.
(Mrs.) L. EDGELL,
Smeaton, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A sufferer 73 years of age.
Thoroughly cured by two bottles of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Immediate Eelief—Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —I have been very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate
relief, and after taking the second bottle I am thoroughly
cured. Its effect on me has been most wonderful. I am
73 years of age. I trust you will make use of this state-
ment by publishing it for the benefit of humanity
generally.—Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TREZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
Dry hacking cough for twelve months.
Believed at once and completely cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Other treatment took no effect.
Mr. W. G. HEARNE.
Dear Sir, —For twelve months or more I had a dry,
hacking cough on my chest, that used to trouble me
terribly at night time. I was told it was a touch of Bron-
chitis. I tried different sorts of medicine, which took no
effect, so I tried your Bronchitis Cure, which I have much
pleasure in informing you relieved me at once. It has
completely cured my cough. lam sure anyone can
depend on your medicine for a thorough and immediate
cure.—l remain, yours truly,
DAVID MATTHEWS,
Modewarre, Victoria.
INFLUENZA and BRONCHITIS.
Ten years suffering with a terrible cough,
and wasting away.
Completely cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of
Influenza and Bronchitis, and for ten years was suffering
with a terrible cough, and was wasting away. I had
medical attendance, and tried various medicines recom-
mended, but without success until, on my daughter’s
recommendation. I used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, with
the result that it completely cured me, and I am per-
fectly free from any cough now.
E. ASTALL,
116 Shields-street, Flemington, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
A sufferer for years cured by one bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Ho other treatment did any good.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —My daughter, 12 years of age, had
a very bad cough that had been a great trouble to her for
years. 1 tried every cough remedy I could get, but not
one of them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried
one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never
coughed since she finished it. lam glad to say the effect
has been wonderful. Your' etc.,
J. BATSEN,
Homebueh, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA 25 YEAKS.
Immediately relieved by Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir.—l have been a martyr
to Asthma for about 25 years, and have tried almost all
known remedies for the complaint, and have been under
the treatment of leading Physicians throughout the
Australian States. I determined to try no more, but let
nature take its course. Two years ago I was asked to try
your Asthma Cure, but laughed at the idea. However,
by the persuasion of a very old friend, 3 weeks ago I
commenced the first bottle of your treatment. Almost
immediately I found that I had made a mistake by not
taking' it before. lam now about half-way through the
second bottle, and so much do I feel relieved that X take
this opportunity of sending' this testimonial along for you
to make whatever use you may think fit. I intend
continuing your treatment, and I trust that before I have
finished the third bottle I shall be able to write to you
that lam perfectly cured. lam pleased to say the effect
has been wonderful.
Yours very gratefulty, PHIL. HAY A,
33 Camden St., Balaclava, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A South Australian storekeeper testifies
to the Efficacy of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
A sufferer 70 years old cured by it.
Well and hearty now.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am a storekeeper,
living in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing of your valuable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman
is over 70 years of age, an old bushman who has been in
these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the medi-
cine from me. He is at my place now, and he says that j
this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis for a !
number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks for
your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part
of it you like, as it may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly,
M. GOGLIAI, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia.
CONSUMPTION-
Too ill to leave his bed.
A complete cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you about the wonderful
cure your medicine has effected in my case. About three
years ago I began to cough. At first the cough was not
severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became very
weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my chest,
and great quantities of phlegm. On several occasions
there was blood in the expectorated matter. I had been
treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to he con-
sumption, and various other treatments had been tried,
but without benefit. It was at this stage that I heard of
your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a course of the
medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill to leave my bed,
but I commenced taking it at once, and gradually im-
proved. I am glad to say that the two lots of medicine
you seat have effected a complete cure, for which accept
my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR,
Westminster-bridge Road, S.E., London.
Distressing, suffocating, dry cough for twelve
years.
Entirely removed by five doses of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
No other treatment could even ease it.
Sir,—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from most
distressing, suffocating, dry cough, that could not be re-
moved or even eased by any remedy, doctors’ prescrip-
tions and patent medicines having been tried ; but lam
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and dif-
ficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by the
fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, sir, yours
most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT,
Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W.
A five years’ case cured by one small bottle
of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
—I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CUBE—Small Size, 2s 6d.; Barge Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch depot- qjg ce . jj 0 First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


To wash clothes
as you would like
is the soap.
WON’T WASH CLOTHES,
BUT WILL CLEAN WELL
METAL AND WOODWORK.
Uric Acid: The Cause of Hany Diseases.
(By “Esou.**
The health of man is influenced to a very great extent by the condition of the kidneys. Any
disease of the kidneys, or interference wuh their action, affects the whole system, because the purity
of the blood is dependent upon the proper extraction from it of certain specific poisons, which it is the
duty of the kidneys to remove.
The kidneys are situated in the small of the back, one on each side of the spine. Human kidneys
are similar in shape to those of a sheep, but are somewhat larger. They are encased in fat, and are
supplied with arteries which convey blood to them from the heart. By a process akin to filtering, the
kidneys take any excess of water from the blood, and they also extract from the blood Various waste
poisons with which it becomes laden in its journey through the veins.
When a person is in good health these waste poisons are dissolved in the water taken from the
blood by the kidneys, and the solution is passed through narrow passages leading from each kidney
into the bladder, and is thence expelled from the body. This solution is known as urine. Some of
the poisons contained in urine are animal matter, such as urea and uric acid; others are mineral
matter, being salts of lime, magnesia, potash, and soda.
Unless the kidneys do their work thoroughly, the waste matter is incompletely extracted from
the blood, and becomes actively poisonous, causing us to suffer from various disorders which cannot
be cured until the kidneys are restored to health and activity.
After the blood is filtered and purified by the kidneys it enters the veins, and is, in due time,
returned to the heart, having, in the meanwhile, traversed the body and taken up a fresh supply of
waste matter. The heart again sends the blood to the kidneys, which once more filter it and extract
the impurities. This process goes on without ceasing day or night.
The kidneys of the average man filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine in
twenty-four hours. In this quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, and ten or twelve
grains, in Weight, of uric acid, together with other animal and mineral matter, varying from a third of
an ounce to nearly an ounce.
The bloo 1, in the course of its circulation, carries nourishment, derived from the food we eat, and
oxygen to every part of the tissues of the body, and receives from the tissues matter which they have
consumed and for which they have no further use. This waste matter it is the duty of the skin, lungs,
and kidneys to throw off and get rid of. In the form of carbonic acid, the lungs throw off the equiva-
lent of eight ounces of pure charcoal every twenty-four hours, and the kidneys do their share by
eliminating urea, uric acid, etc., as described.
The principal disorders directly attributed to failure of the kidneys to perform their alloted task
are Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Anaemia, Gravel, Stone
and Bladder Troubles. When the kidneys are properly doing their work none of the complaints
mentioned can exist, because the causative poisons are then duly removed in a natural manner.
The only remedy known to science which is able to establish a regular and healthy action of the
kidneys is Warner’s Safe Cure. This remarkable medicine is the outcome of years of research, and
has been in use throughout the world for more than a quarter of a century. It is the only known
medicine which has the power to expel uric acid from the system, and it owes this power simply to its
ability to restore worn, weak, or diseased kidneys to their natural vigor. Nature does the rest.
Thousands suffer from kidney disease and do not know it. The commonest first symptom is pain
in the back. A simple test to make as to the condition of the kidneys is to put some of the urine,,
passed the first thing in the morning, into a bottle or covered glass, and let it stand until next,
morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles float about in it,
then the kidneys are not healthy, and no time should be lost in adopting remedial measures or-
Bright’s Disease or some serious illness will be the result.
Remember that Warner’s Safe Cure will in all cases restore the kidneys to health and will con-
sequently cure—and permanently cure-all- diseases arising from their feeble condition and the reten-
tion of uric acid in the system.
A treatise containing a full description of the curative action of Warner’s Safe Cure and many
accounts of cases cured will be sent free on application to H. H. Warner and Co., Limited, Austra-
lasian Branch, Melbourne. [3]
Knocked Out.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ORDERED ashore for a spell,
Here on the grass I lie,
Where the great trees ripple and swell
As the singing winds sweep by.
There are roses everywhere
By hawthorn hedges girt;
And there’s never a fear or care,
Or anything else to hurt.
So I lie’mid the flowers a dreamer,
Stretched full length on the sod,
Sick of the sight of a steamer,
And the swing of a piston-rod.
Over the garden hedge,
Down by the willows there,
The grass is green to the edge
Of the Maitai River, where
The ripples chatter and play
In the shallows of the ford—
Where the teams come past all day
To the crack of leather and cord—
To the tug and mutter of leather,
And the stamp and clatter of steel,
As they get to their work together,
With the river high on the wheel.
The thrushes call from the elms,
The blackbirds play on the sward,
The fragrance of flowers o’erwhelms,
And sweet is the splash of the ford.
And sweet, ah ! sweetest of all,
Are the sounds of battle and strain,
When the voices of teamsters call,
And the loads sway upwards again,
To the music of chain and snaffle,
And a snort when a leader gains
The road, to scatter the gravel,
And throw his weight on the chains.
It is so pleasant to sleep
Here on the sun-warmed sward,
Lulled by the rush and sweep—
The musical rush of the ford.
Drowsing away to a tune
Of marvellous sweetness and peace,
But I’ll feel the blood grip me soon,
And the song and the slumber will cease.
And at night as I drive through the weather
I’ll hear, through the noise of the seas,
The creak and the mutter of leather —
The whips and the “ Whoas ” and the
“ Gees.”
But I’m ordered ashore for a spell,
So here on the turf I lie,
Nothing to say or to tell,
No one to question Why ?
There are roses around me abloom,
And daisies white on the grass.
Who would think of an engine-room
Near the fair wisterias ?
Leave me in peace, I’m a dreamer,
And I want to dream I’m a god.
I’m sick of the sight of a steamer,
And the swing of a piston-rod.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
In the Clutches of Comedy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE was reading in the bedroom when
he entered. Her eyes were like steel as he
stole tip-toe upon her. The color flew from
her cheeks; she stood up in white-lipped surprise.
“I had an idea that you would miss the train,”
she began, confusedly. “Is anything wrong?
Why are you so excited?” An atmosphere of
great calmness surrounded her suddenly; she
walked to the verandah doer, and half closed it.
A venomous curiosity was in the man’s eyes; a
glance unforgiveable as murder shot from him as
she swept round.
“ The express i 3 on its way to Melbourne two
hours ago. It is now 10 o’clock. I won’t bother
you with questions, Emily; I will merely sit
here by your window until” —he nearly snapped
out his words —“ until ”
“Until what, James?”
“Don’t play Bernhardt, Emily; don’t act,
don’t lie.” He regarded her for a moment, while
a new hate seemed to gather in his throat.
“Your studied gestures, your infantile poses
won’t help you this time. I shall sit here until
HE comes.”
The woman flinched. The fury and speed of
his attack snapped her thin line of resistance.
She stared at her book with eyes that could
not see, and he watched her with the air of a
hanging judge.
It was the fourth year of their married life.
One thought gripped her as she stared at the
hard-faced book—she was glad there had been no
children. He had returned to her suddenly when
he ought to have been on his way to Melbourne.
Other men had played the same trick on their
wives with varying success. He was sitting
opposite her, his back to the door. For her there
was no escape now; she could only sit and watch
his iron fingers tapping the half-open door.
There was a sharp click at the gate below.
The night was clear and still. A cart rumbled
slowly past the house. A piano in the adjoining
terrace banged mercilessly. Then came a few
moments of quiet respite.
A click, click, click at the gate below happened
incidentally, but it sounded to Eldgaarde as if it
had come from the fingers of a telegraph operator.
Mrs. Eldgaarde sat like a frozen image in the
chair. She looked at her husband’s face and shut
her eyes. With a swift movement he lowered the
lamp slightly. When she looked again she saw
him half crouching in the dark of the verandah,
his revolver resting on the rail.
“I am going to shoot him—you understand.”
Eldgaarde spoke in a quiet voice. He made no
gestures, but as the lamp-rays caught the revolver
barrel, she saw that it covered a figure in the gate-
way. She screwed up her eyes like a child, ex-
pecting the pistol-flash.
Eldgaarde leaned over the verandah rail.
“Stop!” he said; “if you cross that border or
move an inch. I’ll shoot.”
A muffled assent came from below. Eldgaarde,
still covering the figure, addressed his wife:
“ Before I shoot him, tell me his name. I may
give him one chance. If you care for him tell me
his name. I’ll give you 12 seconds.”
Her fingers tore into the book, and her _ tongue
grew like a snake in her head, almost choking her.
But the seconds moved with the lightning-beats of
her heart.
“ It’s Fred Westhouse.” Her voice was harsh
and savage now. She sat back and wiped her
ashen lips.
“I don’t know the man.” Eldgaarde spoke
again from the balcony. “What a damned
f arC e i
He slipped over the rail, slid down the post
and in a second had crossed the garden. A thick-
set man confronted him. “Westhouse,” said
Eldgaarde, hoarsely. “I want to see your face
before shooting you.”
“My name ain’t Westhouse, boss.” The thick-
set man removed a villainous hat, exposing a face
that was blotched and pimply with drink. “My
name ain’t Westhouse,” he “Strikeme
dead ! what yer goin’ ter shoot fer ? ”
“What are you doing here?” thundered Eld-
gaarde. “ Who are you ?” _
The man fawned. “Give us a chance, boss.
People next door ain’t paid a stiver rent since
Christmas. I’m only a bailiff, waitin’ ter get in.
Strike me dead—don’t shoot a bloke ’cause he’s a
bailiff.”
Eldgaarde pocketed his revolver and returned
to his wife.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
The Human Ostrich.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Human Ostrich giggled. Knowing
him to be a man who never giggled with-
out good reason, I invited him, and the
Fat Man, and the rest of the show round the
corner, and there was an interval for refreshments.
Said the Human Ostrich: “I didn’t sleep a
wink all last night. About half-a-hundred red-
hot devils got under me jaw, and started tearin’
things about. I swallered a hull chemist’s shop,
and rubbed a gallon or so o’ stuff outside. I
cussed, and banged me head on the wall. I
tried everything anybody told me to, but the
devils under me jaw only knocked things about
more willin’.
“Well, this mornin’ I goes to a dentist bloke,
and told him to harpoon a hundred or so of those
demons.
“‘Ah, toothache,’ says he, soft and easy like.
‘ We’ll soon fix that up. Which one is it ? ’
“‘Which one?’ says I; ‘how can I tell, when
one hull blanky jaw’s tearin’ away f’r all it’s
worth?’
“‘Jusso—jusso,’ says he, an’starts jabbin’ an’
hittin’ away at me an’ wantin’ to know if it hurt.’
“‘Course it hurts,’ says I. I knew he was
doin’ it a-purpose, an’ felt riled.
“ ‘ Yes, yes, ’ says he, ‘ that’s the one; we’ll soon
have him out,’ an’ he purred away like an old
tom-cat.
“Then he jabs something up me gum and
fastens on to me jawbone an’ pulls for all he was
worth. I was just goin’ to give him a settler in the
wind when out comes the tusk. It was the wrong
’un. He yanked another out. Wrong ’un again.
I had half a mind to chuck him through his
bloomin’ winder, but thought I’d give him
another go.
“This time he got the right ’un, and those
devils started amblin’ off the premises, though
they left things mighty sore.
“But the bloke wasn’t satisfied then. He
started pokin’ round, an’ quizzin’ with his little
mirror, anVtold me I had three wanted stoppin’.
Said if I didn’t have ’em done they’d soon give me
the same trouble. But I reckoned I’d had enough,
an’ asked him the figger.
“‘Let’s see,’ says he, ‘three hextractions at
seven-an’-six —twenty-two-an’-six, please. ’
“ Well, that kinder took me breath away. I’m
glad now that it did ; cause if it hadn’t, I’d a’
swore pretty willin’. Jumpin’ Jehoshaphat! Pay
him nine half-crowns for pullin’ three teeth, when
he only oughter pulled one ! Pay him twenty-
two-an’-six for makin’ a gory battlefield o’ my
mouth ! Not me.
“ Just as I was gettin’ me breath an idea struck
me, an’ I managed to work up an innocent smile.
*Oh is that all ? ’ says I. ‘ Well, I guess I’ll have
those three stopped while I’m at it, if it won’t,
figger out more ’n a tenner.’
“Y’ oughter heard him smile. He put his little
mirror on the little table in front o’ me, an’ when
he turns round to get some rag, I swallered it.
“ He jabs the rag inter the side o’ me mouth,
then hunted round for his mirror.
‘ Why,’ says he,’ ‘I had it just now—most mar-
vellous thing.’
‘ He put some borers an’ a picker on the table
while he went to get another mirror. I swallered
’em.
“When he Comes back an’ found his picker and
borers missin’, he eyed me pretty suspiciously.
But I kept solemn-like, an’ he got some more. He
poked about me teeth a bit, then put his other mirror
down. I swallered it when he turned to fix up
his whirly-wirly.
“ When he found his second mirror had vanished
along with some other things, he looked sur-
prised like an’ opened his mouth, but shut it again
without speakin’. I could see he was tryin’ to
persuade himself he wasn’t a lunatic.
“ But I kept on swallerin’, every chance I got,
an’ at last he says to me, ‘ Look here, old man,
a lark’s a lark, but you’re goin’ too far. Just hand
over those instruments. ’
“Course I played ’possum, an’ he told me
pretty plain that if I didn’t part up he’d have to
consider me a thief.
“ Course I get riled an’ calls him a liar, an’ he
calls Aubrey, an’ Aubrey calls the p’lice. When
the bobby comes, the bloke tells him what’s up. I
called him a liar again an’ told him to search me.
Course they found nothing.
“ ‘ Ye’ll have to shtrip,’ says the cop.
“I stripped an’ they searched me clothes, but
o’ course couldn’t find nothin’, an’ the dentist
bloke went as white as a ghost.
“‘I—I—I must a’ been mistaken,’ he splut-
tered.
“ ‘ ’Tis what ye are—an’ ye’re a fool,’ says the
cop, in a bit of a rage.
“‘Yes,’ says the bloke, ‘but it’s most as-
tonishin’—most astonishin’.’ Then he gives the
cop harf-a-sov. to drink his health with, an’ the
cop goes. I climbs inter me duds pretty smart,
then sits up in the chair again, an’ tells the bloke
to wire in. But he gasps like an ol’ hen on a
hot day, and sinks down on the sofa, an’ waves
his hand at me.
“ When he managed to speak he could only say,
‘Go —go—go f’r Gawd’s sake.’
“‘Well, I’ll pay ye f’r the lot when ye’ve
finished,’ says I.
“‘Pay—pay the devil,’says he. ‘lf ye come
back here ”
“ ‘ I’ll bring a lunatic asylum,’ says I.
“ Then how did he tear his hair ! He starts
callin’ f’r Miss Jones an’ f’r Aubrey, an’ tellin’ me
to go ; an’ the bit o’ style from the waitin’-room
comes in, an’ the kid in buttons comes in, an’ the
bloke starts havin’ hysterics or somethin’, an’
they looked as if they’d like to have some along
with him, so I left ’em at it. Hope he hasn’t
gone clean off his head altogether.”
And the Human Ostrich giggled again.
LES LEE.
Two Sous.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE long, white road seemed to writhe
and twist in the fierce heat of the afternoon
sun. Two lines of cocoanut palms, one on
either side, stretched away to where the hospital-
gates formed a vanishing point in the distance,
but instead of casting a shade they seemed rather
to enclose the heat as between two walls.
Surveillant-militaire Bassini crouched under the
hedge and cursed the Fates that made him a
guard of convicts in New Caledonia. Before him,
in the full glare ot the sun, clad only in canvas
trousers and straw hat, worked convict Bicot,
“lifer.” The pick in his hands rose and fell with
a mechanical regularity that was almost sickening.
The lowering, clean-shaven face with the hard
mouth, seamed brow and keen black eyes never
altered. It was hard and set, and showed no
trace of the tumultuous thoughts within.
The sun-browned body streamed with sweat,
and glittered as the muscles rolled and twitched.
Bicot was in the pink of condition ; otherwise he
could not have stood the awful strain.
The surveillant took the cigarette from his lips,
and blew out a cloud of blue smoke that rested
in a haze round his head, so heavy was the air.
“ How hard my dear friend Bicot works ! ” he
said, sneeringly. “And to think that it is for
our dear France and not for himself that he toils !
Oh, admirable patriot! ”
The convict might have been deaf for all the
notice he took, but the muscles on his jaws began
to twitch, and into the small, black eyes came an
ominous glitter.
“And how great his love for his dear friend
Bassini !” drawled on the surveillant. “Has he
not already made him a present of five golden:
sovereigns, the nice yellow English money that
everybody is so ready to take ? And is he not
now going to give him two more.”
Pick—pick—pick. The convict took as little
notice as before.
Bassini’s face grew black with malevolence.
“See here, my friend !” he said, “I waste no
more time with you. I have already asked you
twice ; this is the third time. I know you have
two sovereigns. I saw the glint as Goutrin passed
them to you last night. If you don’t tell me
where you have put them by the time I count ten
I will kill you where you stand, as I had to do
with that fool, Durand. You remember Durand’s
death, and how I was complimented on escaping
from the attack of so dangerous a scoundrel. You
will be the same, and your carrion will be shoved
into a hole in the ground, and what good will your
two pounds do you then ? ”
Pick, pick, pick. The convict never slackened
or changed his stroke, or took his eyes off the
ground.
Bassini slowly drew his revolver, rest.ed it on
his knee, and began deliberately to count. Bicot
made no sign but the muscles on his arms swelled
into knots of whipcord.
‘ ‘ One—two—three ” (pick)— ‘ ‘ four—five—six
(pick)—“seven—eight—nine” (pick)—“ ten.”
Bassini darted a look up and down the road
before firing. Bicot sprang forward with uplifted
pick and the light of madness in his eye.
The surveillant had time to fire just once, but
the bullet glanced off the hardwood pick-handle,
and the next moment Bassini was a senseless mass
on the ground.
When others arrived, attracted by the shot,
they found Bassini’s body riddled with pick-holes,
and close beside lay Bicot, a bullet-hole in his
temple and the surveillant’s revolver gripped in
his right hand.
Clenched in his left were two bright one-sou
pieces.
NOUMEA.
MULWA.


1
s
a
■
AND CONSTIPATION.
*<s " -
THAT Bile Beans are an undoubted cure for Indigestion and its attendant
evils, is now a well-proved fact throughout Australia. Many past sufferers
owe their present freedom from this distressing complaint to the curative
properties of Bile Beans. Just as one striking example, take the follow-
ing case : Mr. J. A. Marsden, a dentist, of High-street, W. Maitland, N.S.W.,
writes: “About 2| years ago,
I first felt the symptoms of Indi-
gestion, which was mainly brought
about by irregular diet and insufficient
rest at night. I also suffered with
headaches, constipation, and wind on
the stomach. My ill-health inter-
fered with my business to no small
extent, and it was not an unusual
thing for me to stay away from the
office for two or three days together.
Many were the reputed cures recom-
mended by different friends, which I
tried, but without any benefit. Some three months ago Bile Beans were recom-
mended and tried. The first three doses proved to my satisfaction that I had
at last secured the remedy, and, continuing with them for a month, I noticed a
marvellous change in my condition. My appetite was improved, my rest undis-
turbed, and in every way I felt a new man. I never fail to recommend your
valuable Bile Beans to fellow sufferers.”
m
v;
\ V
d
7
T<
BILE BEANS are a SAFE FAMILY MEDICINE and PROVED CURE tor
BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES,
DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD
BREATH, ANiEMIA DISTURBED SLEEP, LOSS OF APPETITE, PIMPLES,
and ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS,
RHEUMATISM, and by giving
tone to the system will ward off
COUGHS, COLDS, and INFLU-
ENZA. Obtainable generally at Is.
l£d., or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (con-
taining three times the Is. size),
I
' Vv. ; :
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
lotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd.
My Visitor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He came to me at close of day,
When lamps were lately lit,
And men along each dusky way
Like shadows seemed to flit.
He came so softly in the room,
His step I did not hear ;
He seemed a ghost from outer gloom
That sought for light and cheer.
In truth he was a figure odd,
And quaint as quaint could be;
His clothes were of a period
Far back in history.
An old patched suit of faded red,
And short black cloak he wore ;
The queer-shaped cap upon his head
A broken feather bore.
Yet in his manner, easy, free,
His quiet, easy ways,
There was a battered dignity
That told of better days.
I made some mention of the road
He might have travelled on ;
He smiled a weary smile that showed
His teeth were mostly gone.
The night was warm as it could be—
My shirt-sleeves were uprolled—
And yet, somehow, it seemed to me
He shuddered with the cold.
And then he blinked his old weak eyes
Of faded china-blue,
And said, “ I must apologise
For calling thus on you.
“ It was not proper etiquette,
Of that there is no doubt,
But friends of yours whom I have met
Said you might help me out.
“ The fact is that I want your aid
To float a Company,
In which you shall have shares prepaid,
If you will stand by me.
“There is a syndicate below—
You know the place I mean—
A certain crowd with morals low
But business instincts keen.
“A corner they have made in Coal,
This wicked, selfish Ring,
And now each imp and each lost soul,
Sits sadly shivering.
“ Hell now is as an ice-house chill
The tears ran down his face—
“ There is not fire enough to grill
A chop in all the place.
“ And so I’ve come, with hopeful heart,
To see some business men,
And float a Company, and start
The good old fires again.
“ I offer as Security ”
He shed some further tears—
“ My gates, and all the gate-money,
For, say, a thousand years.
‘ ‘ The Parsons now might take some shares—
They make the most by me—
And, if I close the shop downstairs,
I ask—where will they be ? ”
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
Mr. Barnes, Desperado.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LJAID Mr* Barnes: “Mine’s a beer.
Just a plain* ’onest beer. It alus is,” he
added, thoughtfully. “Talkin’ o’ members
o’ Parlyment, though, reminds me of a little
epi—epi—o’ summat what took place up at
Gaskir Crik afore y’u young fellers wuz born.
“One night we wue all in at ‘The Lucky
Bowyang,’ as usual, when up comes the coach
Wat called every now an’ sometimes. ‘Yous is
goin’ to ’ave visiters—distinguished visiters,’ sed
Freddie Wilkins, the driver. ‘Ho ! ’ sed we.
‘Yuz,’ sed ’e. ‘The right ’onerible mister al-
migh by Fortyscue blanky Smith ! ’ ‘ Gor’-
struth ! ’ larfed everybody ’cept Sly Mick—’im
wat owned the ‘ Bowyang,’ the on’y pub within 60
miles (a gold mine it were—Mick admittin’ that
if on’y ’e could collect wat we owed ’im ’e would
buy a brew’ry an’ retire).
“ Sly Mick ’e got quite excited, an’ walked up
an’ down, an’ invited everyone to drink at ’is
expense —which we did twice. ‘ Think o’ the
’oner ! Think o’ the ’oner ! * ’e kept sayin, ‘l’ll be
able to put up “Under the extinguished patronige
o’ the Right ’Orrible Mister Blankey Wat’s-’is-
name Smith.” ’
“‘Ho, will y’u?’ larfed Freddy, the driver.
‘D’ y’u think ’e’d stay at sich a low-down pub as
this ’ere ? Why, ’e travels round with a whole
cary van—tents an’ cooks an’ secretaries an’ things.
Very perticler ’e is—a Inglish Parliament bloke
lookin’ round Australia. Talks a lot about the
Empire. Wants to ’ave a chat with a ’Stralian
gold-mining camp. So, bein’ pretty chock of ’im
over yonder, they’re passin’ ’im on ’ere. Timid
young feller ’e is, with watery eyes an’ a corf.
’E’ll pitch a few tents out there by the timber,
&n’ worry round yous all day an’ arst questions.’
“ * The devil ’e will! ’ shrieked Mick, in a ter-
rible rage, an’ started in an’ cursed all the Right
’Oneribles what wuz ever born cyr likely to be.
‘ Wants to see a minin’ camp, do ’e ? My ’otel
ain’t good enuf, ain’t it ? Blast me, we’ll show
’im ! We’ll ’and ’im out a Wild West Show ! A
Right ’Onerible! I never yet met one as wuz
any good. Bah ! ’ Sly Mick spat to show ’is con-
temp’, an’ then, as ’e turned nasty an’ wanted to
charge us fer the drinks which ’e in ’is excitement
’ad shouted, we dispersed.
“ We never lost sight, ’owever, fer a moment of
that scheme to surprise our ’igh-class visiter, an’
by the end o’ the week we ’ad formed our plans.
After much difficulty we managed to raise six
rusty revolvers an’ a few ole fowlin’ pieces. Sly
Mick, ’oo ran the store as well as the pub—’e ran
most everythin’—’anded round, on loan, all the
red shirts an’ colored ’andkerchiefs ’e could find —
which is the things all miners wear in picter-
books. It wuz a ’straordinary sight to see the
boys swaggerin’ round in fancy shirts an’ belts
with revolvers an’ knives stuck in ’em. It looked
jist like a the-ater play.
“Well, late one night, along comes ’is royal
’ighness with is circus, an’ erects three tents, well
away from th’ camp, under a clump o’ wattles.
By express, orders, no one was to go near ’im till
next mornin’, an’, ’cept fer a few o’ the young
chaps crawlin’ down an’ growlin’ an’ sniffin’ an’
scratchin’ round the tents, like tigers an’girafs
an’ sich wild beasts, ’e an’ ’is retinoo ’ad a quiet
an’ peaceful night o’ it. At daybreak, next morn-
in’, a deputashun went down to ’is tent an’ woke
’im up orfer ’is spring bed, an’ tole ’im ’ow de-
lighted we wuz to see ’im.
“ ‘We ’opes as ’ow y’u’ll be comfertible among
us,’ sed I. We’s rough-an’-ready, but good-
’earted —an’, if some on us is a bit quick-tempered
an’ shoots a bit ’asty like, why we’s sorry fer it th’
next minit, an’ alus looks arter th’ widow an’
orphans ’
“ ‘ Th-thank y’u, my good man,’ sed ’e, lookin’ a
bit funked an’ kinder shyin’ at the array o’ iron-
mongery stuck in our belts. ‘ Th-thank y’u, my
good man ’—(s’welp me, I near passed ’im one in
th’ eye—talkin’ to me like so—but e’ wuz so little
an’ pink an’ talked through the top of ’is neck so
pretty that I ’eld off). 4 1 ’ave come among y’u to
study your mode o’ livin’,’ sed e’. ‘ln this great
Hempire of our’n ’
“ ‘Excuse us,’ sed I, ‘but we must be movin’.
A little matter o’ justice—we alus like to finish
these affairs afore breakfast. ’
“‘Ho,’ sez ’e, ‘jist wat I wanted to inquire
into. A trial, I presoom ? ’
“|Not exactly,’ I answered back. ‘Jist a
’angin’! ’
“‘ A what!’ shrieked ’e.
“I led ’im to the door o’ the tent an’ pointed in
silence to where a group o’ the boys stood, about
200 yards off, round Jerry Lane. Jerry knelt
under a big gum with a rope round ’is neck t’other
end of which wuz passed over a ’igh branch. In
the cold grey o’ the mornin’ it was a creepy sight.
“ ‘ Oh, my Gawd ! ’ gasped Mr. Onerible Smith,
an’ covered ’is eyes with ’is ’ands. I left ’im then
an’ made me way down to the tree, where we cast
off Jerry an’ ’oisted a stuffed dummy in ’is place to
the top o’ the branch amid ’orrible gurglin’s. We
’ad a little difficulty wi’ Jerry when ’e wanted the
dummy corpse cut down, cos ’e ’ad discovered it
wuz wearin’ ’is best pants, but we quieted ’im at
last, and ’eaded by Sly Mick playin’ ‘ The Dead
March ’ on the accordeon, filed bareheaded pist
the tents. ’ls nibs wuz standin’ in ’is night clothes
where I left ’im, ’is ’ands an’ jores workin’ ’orribly.
*1 s’pose it's alright,’ I ’eard ’im gasp. ‘I ’s’pose
it’s alright. Rough justice ! Rough justice !
Tell me,’ ’e called to me, ’arf sobbin’, ‘ Wot wuz
the poor wretch guilty of ? ’
“ ‘ Stealin’ a pipe,’ sed I.
“ ‘ A what?’ shrieked ’e, foamin’ at the mouth,
—-‘ A pipe ? ’
“ ‘Well, it were a good pipe—belonged to this
gent ’ere,’ sed I, pointin’ to Mick. Now, Mick
’ad one ’and on’s ’ead, an’ t’other ’and fumblin’ in
’is pocket.
“ ‘ By ’Eavins ! ’ ’e cried, tragically, ‘l’ve made
a mistake ! Jarge never stole it, arter all. By
’eavens, no ! It muster got caught in the linin’ o’
me coat.’
“ ’E slowly pulled a broken black cutty from ’is
pocket, an’ we all gazed at it in ’orror-stricken
silence. ‘ Oh, my Gawd ! that this can be ! ’
groaned poor Smithy. ‘ls it a nightmare, O
Gawd ? ’ ’E staggered into ’is tent, an’ fell on to
’is bed, and, from the noises we ’eard, I should say
’e’d never bin so sick in all ’is life afore. Then we
went into the scrub, an’ lay up agen each other
an’ shrieked.
“ Our distinguished visitor took all that mornin’
to recover, an’ in the afternoon e’ an’ ’is cook an’
sec-retery an* the bottle-washer an’ chamberlain
an’ aidy-kamp shifted camp to t’other side the
crik, outer sight o’ the dummy corpse, an’ started
in to write up the ’orrible details o’ the atrocity.
“In the evenin’ ’e ventured out —an’ we wuz
ready fer ’im. Every man on the crik wuz sham-
min’ drunk (some few ’ad the luck not to be
shammin’), an’ as ’e an’ ’is pals strolled past the
‘ Bowyang ’ there wuz no less than six couples
busily engaged knifin’ each other ; while Jerry an’
me wuz blazin’ away at each other with revolvers
acrost the street, an’ Sly Mick, seated on ’is door-
step, wuz dealin’ with imagin’ry snakes with a
tommy’awk. Then the explorin’ party retired in
disorder to their camp, an’ barricaded ’emselves
in, an’ did sentry-go in turns all night.
“ Next day wuz quiet, an’ me lord thinkin’, no
doubt, our howlin’ bender wuz over fer the time
bein’, crept cautious out o’ ’is camp to study life.
Then our great koop came off ! A party o’ the
leadin’ an’ most inflooenshal citizens wuz showin’
’im round in the dusk when, with blood-curdlin’
yells, like football barrickers, ten o’ the Belli-
Belli blacks (’ired at the cost o’ a bottle o’ rum per
’ead) burst from a clump o’ timber an’ charged
down on us like we wuz a counter lunch. We
fired a volley in the air an’ retreated ’1 fer leather
—the Inglish coves doin’ the pacin’. D’y’u ever
notice ’ow a sudden shock takes different blokes
d iff’rent ways? Some on ’em shivers an’some on
’em sweats, an’ some on ’em swears. I alus swears
meself,” added the old man, absent-mindedly
taking his neighbor’s beer. When the said neigh-
bor had been placated, Mr. Barnes continued :
“ These ’’ere Inglish blokeslay in the pub, where
We planted ’em, sweatin’an’ shiverin’, an’listunin’
to the clatter an’ the groans, an’ the firin’, an’ the
shrieks, an’ the bangin’, an’ the cursin’ outside,
till Jerry, all over blood an’ rags, staggered in an’
gasped: ‘Fly fer yer lives, mates we’re done
there’s millions on ’em—millions. They’ve
slaughtered all the wimmin an’ child’en, an’ now
they’re marchin’ on ther pub. Tell me poor ole
muvver I’ ——■ With that’e squelched on to the
floor in a silent ’eap. ’E wuz a born play-actor
wuz Jerry.
“Very cautiously we led ’em out to the back,
an’ ’elped ’em on their ’orses what we ’ad waitin’.
Then we put ’em on the road to Glede, an’ left
’em.
“A week later, ole Bill Leckie, the J.P., rode
over wi’ some troopers to inquire into the reports
made by Mister ’Onerible Thing-me-bob Smith.
But, as no one seemed to know nothink about
anythink, an’ as all the Right ’Onerible’s camp
an’ swag ’ad been cut up long since, Bill gave it
up as a waste o’ time, an’ ’im an’ the troopers got
tight, like sensible bein’s an’ gentlemen.
“Ah, them wuz the times! A man did’ave
a charnst to git a bit lively now an’agin. The
beer bit all the way. Seems to me it’s losin’ its
flavor now’days.”
ARF. BRASCH.


Cured the Children
pi»7ama ) BlofcSiss on the Skin, Severe Itching, Sleep Disturbed,
Health Impaired, Mow Health; and Lively.
Mrs. E. Isaacs,
Caulfield, Vic-
toria, sends the
photograph, of
herself and chil-
dren, and says:
w I have used
Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla for three of
my children who
were troubled
w i t»h eczema,
which, as you
well know, is a
troublesome itch-
ing disease,
breaking out in
blotches on thB
skin and causing
no end of trouble
and discomfort to
the children by disturbing their sleep and upsetting their general health.
However, knowing of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, I decided to use it, and now the
children are entirely free from any sign whatever of the complaint, and are
as healthy and lively as could be wished.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla cures skin diseases because it removes their cause. Tt
takes out all impurities from the blood, and then the skin quickly heals.
For sixty years Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been doing this grand work. There
is no other Sarsaparilla like it. When there are impurities in the blood,
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will promptly remove them, and will also make the blood
rich and red. Only be sure you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind,
AYER’S § arsaparilla
- ■ ■
bv DR- J. O -*-YER COw XjywolK Mass.. XT. S. A-
::
JOHN BRUSH,
M. -
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILIiS
Is the Great -English (Jure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
ey claim a superiority over all other Gout an d
tvheumatic medicines.
BO T re«rJnl l^f W i lic . h ., are P er,ecfcl y harmless, require
to prevent th f j- let dunn S th «r use, and are certain
P nt the disease attacking any vital part.
Btrand Uf r°nn.r d in En K la,ld b y Prout and Co., 229
box London, and sold at Is. Hd. and 2s. 9d. per
I throughout th» a A 6 . th , r . oU K h a '*y Chemist or Store
I vnrougnout the Australian Colonies.
Many apparently hopeless cases ■which I have'
curei prove my claim to your confidence.
Undeniable Proofs Free.
Or Six Bottles, 31/- (enough for 3 months),
Twelve Bottles, 56/-, carriage paid.
Mb. Gilbebt Dale, ha. Snow Hill, Hanley,
Staffs.. Eng.
P rt mkennesss
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
JJB. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
may be given secretly.
t!rayih^l° s f, s . prod " ce a wonderful change. The
nerve<j°ho^ a I “ tox * Cants will .be destroyed, the,
return, teady ’ the appetite for food'will
KI
ONE OP many:
. . , Ravensthovpe, IK A., 23-9-04
a cure fi half course, which has effected
ren un „,,„ , ve no desire for drink , in t'acl have a
Repugnance to the very idea of it.
Tn- . } r ours gratefully , R.O.
te for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address •
Wm lancston, m.r.c.s , eng.
STREET, Melbourne.
*" h ' •"
O- R I C
varicocele, lb etc R T e ? y for debility,
d + y it ality t to tores Energy ’ Strength
Prjp "stations. Send af 6 mo ® fc weak a "d shattered
® 12 s-, or four aua t ? 8 for free Pamphlet.
Rents' 6d - tles ln one » 36s - height extra,
& CO., 47 Queen St.,
> Sydney; NewTastfl aU i t i C ° - ’ 16 O’Connell
- Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
68
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W.
G. & 00.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Order* by post from all the colonies promptly
attended, to.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rNLORODYNE^
Caution.— Gtaraina Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHM A, BEOHOHITIS,
DIAKKHCtiA, < * sc 'i bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
SBK ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS al
Sspt. as 1806, m/«;
"If I were asked whioh single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlohodynbl 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to ths
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
ts best recommendation.”
WEAK MADE STRONG!
OUR Electric Appliance
pours glowing, exhilar-
ating Vitality into you
while you sleep. It Animates
the sluggish circulation,
Stimulates the Brain to
Activity, and fills the body
with Life, Ambition, and
Endurance. It furnishes
the Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Catalogue and Price List
Energy and Vigor.
Post Fr«f>
i ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOB YOUNG-MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
2U?. B ~ sons W 'h° l°st all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
ind Head Ncms.es, no matter of
low long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MEDICINES COME
AND
MEDICINES GO
but lasting popularity can only be obtained by proved lasting benefits.
Have you ever considered why BEECH AM’S PILLS are the greatest
patent medicine and have outlived competitors ? Nothing
BUT
superior merit and usefulness, and that they have proved themselves
unequalled for removing the common ailments of men, women and children.
Year in and year out thousands of families throughout the world keep
Beeeham’s
Pills
on hand for minor ailments, which, if not at once ohecked, will lead to
serious illness. Don’t experiment with untried remedies so persistently
and plausibly offered, but remember that BEECHAM’S PILLS will prove
every point claimed and will
ROLL ON FOR EVER.
If you would look well, feel well, and keep well, use
Beecham’s Pills.
Pr-epm-ed oniy by Thomas Beecham, St Helens, Eng .
Sold everywhere in Boxes, price 10id,1/li, and 2/9.
[2.]
:
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
.T
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill. Small Ossa. Small Price.
Thy TOUGH the
R
>u re they ar<
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER.
Price Is. Id.
Pott Free.
A CARD.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Edin.,
M.8.C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.P.P.S.Q.,
Grierson Bursar and Medallist, University of Edinburgh ; formerly Member of the Royal Medical Society of
Edinburgh ; Late Assistant Demonstrator in Practical Zoology, University of Edinburgh ; Member of the General
Council of the University of Edinburgh, etc., etc. Formerly Medical Superintendent and Visiting Surgeon to
four of Australasia’s leading Hospitals, may be consulted personally or by letter, FREE, at his consulting rooms,
“ELMLEY HOUSE,”' 151 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY,
daily, from 10 to 2, and from 7to 9 p.m. (Sundays, 12 to 1.) He makes no charge for a friendly chat or confi*
dential talk. Being a Consulting' Physician in ali Diseases of Men and Women, and a Specialist in all
Private, Nervous, Skin, & Genito-Urinary Complaints.
Patients entrusting themselves to his care have the advice of a Thoroughly Competent and Trustworthy
Physician, who treats all cases at moderate charges, and guarantees a cure in all cases undertaken by him.
Send for Dr. Martin’s book, “Mind Over Matter,” posted FREE on receipt of six stamps. “The Diseases of
Men and Women ” ready July 10th. Apply at once.
Consultation by Letter—FßEE.
DR. MARTIN. M.D., “ Elmley House/' 151 Elizabeth-st., City.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)


INDIA RUBBER
HOT WATER BAGS.
Are a necessity in every home.
Splendid in health or sickness.
Retaining the heat for many
hours. Made of best heavy
English Rubber.
LOWEBT PRICES:
*
Perdriau Rubber Co.^J
(Late Perdriau and Co.),
MERCHANTS,
270 George Street, Sydney.
ON THE HOP!
Just Published, A superb library volume, hand-
somely printed and bound ; containing upwards of
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s” best drawings. Full
“ Bulletin ” size. Price, 21s.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
HAHMATTS
;_ rv ,; v . V V7< .',,.7 . '‘; V- ; ; - <
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark*.
Co
Pr
WOLF
.
iiOT
AX
Vi
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“THU BLOCH,"
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
It.: MAX FIELD, ProPrs., SHEFFIELD. , r « f„>: . i .
showrooms re-arranged with additional cmm and entrance fitted with electric elevator,
IT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being: used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL BO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from St.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEtTiH BMHHE * CO., NEEIOVRIIE.
BLACK, BEI), and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases):—
PRIOR IN MELBOURNE ~
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich * CO., Ltd.> *.
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) „
„ HOP,ART (Wm. Crosby & Co.) „
4/- por Gallon.
-*/-
*&/-
•«=/-
A
i■l J \
* JL X
' . A.-' -yy .
■fl
u
11 i |hH|l|
AS
WELL
AS
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS,
MA.VS X3W STOOK — . ■—rnwanoi^
All Kinds of Engineers* Fittings &
Wood PulSeys
Shafting
Hangers
Collars
Couplings
Drills
Reamers
Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves
Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyoes,
Emery Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators,
Starrett Fine Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
writ.forPricesto_©Q Qj arence St., Sydney, IM.S.W
HATS.
HAVING specially selected from the world’s best
markets the latest in HA RID FELT HATS, I am
able to over values exlttovs the ordinary.
No. 1 is a very stylish up-to-date
line, at 6/6
No. 2—An equally fashionable
Hat, at 8/6, in five different
shapes. '
No. 3 —A superior Hat, beauti-
fully finished, Pure Fur, at
IC/6, in five of the latest
shapes worn.
No. 4 is a high-class Bowler, showing in ten distinct
shapes, Fashion Fancies, 12 6, quality unsurpassed.
Country Customers post your orders to—
A. H. RUSSONS, ' 7 L?grSf
A SHOVEL PRESEOT.>fe!>
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we wilt forward to
anv address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches with
either Bell, Heart. Anchor or Cross Pendant,
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, W®.
111 loot. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6 G.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters care full'
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire Kinfif, Cole*
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM.
“ Used your valuable Remedy for
COUGH & COUD
OVER THIRTY YEARS
In my family with great success.”
—J. Hall, School-house, E. Markham.
AGENTS,
ELLIOTT BROTHERS & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
Sew
BT ALL
First-Clam
Storm
in Australasia.
No. 3160.
1 Blaus.
Cocoa Handle - //-
Buffalo Handle » ?/6
Stag Handle ■ - ° 1/6
}CKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
i M
arc tM
POCKET
knives
©H3
Size, s£" x 3J
x 5
We are Direct importers
m
(all size*
for »!l
purposU)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting Hangers Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes ’and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
97
CX.A.REHTCB STREET, SYD3SffB!Y.
TWO ITEMS OF INTEREST.
RAND AIR COMPRESSORS
Wiil develop 1 H.P. per
Hour on 16lhs. of Steam.
RAND ROCK DRILLS
Won 11 out of 12 Heats
at the World’s Contest in Johannesburg.
CATALOGUES and PARTICULARS from
N. GUTHRIDGE im
71 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY I
486 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE I
! ■
