

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
WHOLESALE AGENTS : ORME KEIGWIN & CO., LTD., 269 GEORGE STREET, SIDNEY.
R. Gr. WATK.IIVS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over
300
Prize
Medals
and
Grand
Prlx,
Paris,
1900.
ďf
HOBART;
— —
Hadley s Orient jjotel.
IP*
PIONEER
LEATHER
m
w 8 E LTIM G
si
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
Rust on, Proctor & Go. s
PORTABLE &
FIXES STEAM
ENGINES
embody many
Valuable Improvements
Send for Illustrated
Lists A Particulars
to Sole Agents - =
28,500 STEAM ENGINES SOLD. LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°- ss Pitt st., SYDNEY
BOTTLED IN
SCOTLAND
gsdf
WHISKY
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
'dIAIVH N V M S I a 3
■IViOH 3Hi
''v,"vr
, V . : -'
m
V»£i&
-- >;-•
Economy in Current.
Equality op Light.
THE
EDM & SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE
gs
dfg
s
CONTINENTAL MOTOR TYRES.
Wallace Continental Cycle Tyres.
AT ALL MOTOR AND CYCLE DEPOTS. N.S.W. BRANCH : 7 WYNYARD STREET, SYDNEY.
dfg
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
sdf
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS !
gs
u
m
2/6
DAILY
TREAT!
■> • A
m
V
lit
BREWERS, WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
and CORDIALS.
dfg
sd
OIL
Other in
the World .
equals
s
SIMPLEX’
mmmmammmmmammmmmmmmmmrnßmmmmmmmmmammmmm.
IRR3GATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
ABSOLUTE
In
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
No Wn-rv or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Ail Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
Top Quality
Bottom Prices
In Every Line.
PRICE LIST PER BOTTLE:
WHISKIES.
Highland Park .. .. if-
Usher s Special .. .. 4/2
Buchanan’s Special .. 4/2
Walker’s 3/9
Bulloch Lade .. .. 3 9
Glen Nevis 3/(1
Glen Dew 3,3
Grant’s -9
.lameson’s .. .. 3/- 5,9
Mitchell’s .. ..26 4/6
Mitchell’s (Proof) 2/9 5. 5
Burke’s.. .. .. 2/6 4/i
Burke’s Proof .. 2/9 5/5
Ki Harney Dew .. 2/4 4/6
Old Irish Blend .. 2/- 4,'-
BRANDIES.
Mavtell's 5 5
He’iiuess.v’s 5/3
Pruniei’s 5/-
Lalanne Freres .. .. 4/6
Caniile 3/6
Yiiiet's 3/3
RUMS.
Sheriff’s .. .. 2/3 4/6
(.id Imported .. 1/6 3/-
Queensland.. .. 1/3- 2/6
fg
CHAMPAGNES.
„ Louis Roederer... 5,2£ 10/-
Dry Monopole .. '5/2| 10/-
£‘, Poimnery .. .. 5/2J 10 -
yZ | Piper Heidsieck... 5/2| 10/-
I Perrier Jouet .. 5/- 9/9
d/0 i lvruff .. ... 2/6 4/9 9/6
Vict'r Cliquot 2/6 4/6 8/6
j LIQUEURS.
4/3 | Absinthe (Pernod’s).. 71-
3/8 Benedictine.. . t .. 6/-
3/5 ; Cherry Brandy .. .. 6/-
sdf
gs
IMPORTED LAGERS.
Munich dark .. ~ sd. l/l
Elberfeld 9d. l/]
Franz Josef .. .. 9d. l/l
RICHARDSON’S,
158 RUSSELL ST.,
Next BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
• _r
“Stands pre-eminent as a Table Water.
99
The Bulletin
Vol 26.—N0. 1310. j
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Hewßpape?
[Thursday, March 23, 1905.


A BOOK WORTH READING.
£
dIOM V3S
By JACK LONDON, author of “The Call of the Wild,” “People of
the Abyt-s,” “Faith of Men.” &c., &c.
Price 3s. 6d., Post Free 4s. With illustrations by Vv. J. Aylward.
“ The Sea Wolf ”is a, novel of prime interest, and is already in great demand. Humphrey Van Wevden, shanghaied
on a sealing- schooner just off San Francisco Bay, is battered into a rnanJby Her captain, Wolf Larsen, a superb com-
bination of strength, and Gunning, and brute-force, and indomitable wifi. ' Maud Brewster, the heroine, is rescued at
sea, and puts to test the new manhood that has grown up in Humphrey under Wolf Larsen’s rough handling. The
tale is full of adventure, and fight, and struggle, and conquest; and it is also full of romance. Best of all, it is one
of those rare novels in which one feels Mu-oughout the dominant note.
New York Tribune : “ We found it piognantly interesting— a superb piece of eraftmanship.”
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great..
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure of
Bronchitis !
; and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
dfgsdr
i
A. The Larynx, or organ oi voioe.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung-
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE ‘‘AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETT
says
“Of great service in
affections of
voice and tfaroat.”
HUDSON’S EUWIENTHOL JUJUBES
CONTAINS COCAINE M OTNEE PO.EONPOS CROC. **£;■ SXS&JZS? W*
’AjrendS'in all Australian States and >C«N 320 Mr»t Street W„ London.
THE BED PAGE.
THE CLOUD
“ f | to make an impression on a
I Govt, department,” says a N.S.W.
Govt, officer, “is like thrusting
your arm into a cloud. The cloud
gives way before you, it closes up around
you, and when you withdraw your arm you
find you have grasped—nothing ! ”
Why ? In theory the Govt, department
exists to serye the public, and advance the
public interest. Why does it not do so ?
why is it so slow ? so awkward ? so unsatis-
factory ? Why is' “ the Government stroke ”
proverbial for inefficiency ?
One reason is this : that human nature
takes the line of least resistance. The tra-
dition of a Govt, department is that an em-
ployee is appointed for life or during good
behaviour. Whether he is industrious or
slothful matters little as long as he performs
his allotted task without ’ absolute discredit.
Promotion is slow, and usually by seniority.
So there is no inducement to a man to do his
best, no pressure upon him. And without
inducement, without pressure, the average
man will never do his best.
In a Govt, department nearly everybody
dodges responsibility. Responsibility means
labour and trouble, possibly additional work,
possibly worry, and—when there is no in-
ducement, no pressure—it is human nature
to avoid work anchworry. So the Govt, ser-
vant avoids doing anything for which he may
be called to account. He shelters himself
behind office routine, service regulations. It
becomes his object in life to draw the maxi-
mum salary with the minimum expenditure
of effort. ■ • ' ■" •
J*
Disused faculties decay, disused capacities
wither ; so presently the Govt, servant is
unable to do more than his task, becomes in-
competent to pieet responsibility. v That
does not matter to him : his salary goes on
just the same : he is content to be a mere
cog in the machine, ravelling or unravelling
every day his allotted portion of tape. And
he lives untroubled, secure in his little
niche.
Zeal? initiative ? self-sacrifice ? These are
the things that make for efficiency ; but the
Govt, servant does not exhibit them : it does
not pay him to exhibit them. The head of
a Govt, department told me this
“When I was appointed I was youlig, energetic,
clear-headed, and I wanted to justify my appoint-
ment and to justify myself to myself. I found
eighteen months arrears of formal work in the de-
partment of which I had been made head. Many
of the clerks were working overtime continually—
and incidentally, the overtime gave opportunity
for a leakage of information that the department,
in regular office hours, should have been paid for.
I was determined to get rid of the overtime, and
I told the staff so. In twelve months we managed
it. The work was up to date, and every day’s
work was done in the day.
“Presently a Board of Inquiry came along.
They looked into other departments, and found-
arrears of work and overtime. They looked into
my department, and found no arrears, no over-
time. They decided that I was over-staffed and
overpaid, so they took away three of my clerks
and reduced my salary.”
So much for zeal and efficiency. Other heads
of departments are wiser in their generation
—and the public suffers.
The other day I tried a personal experi-
ment. Naturally, early delivery of mails is
valuable to a journalist. Delivery of mails
to me, and doubtless to others, is often late.
I took a typical case—American newspapers
landed in Sydney city about midday on >24th
February, and delivered in Sydney city on
Monday, 27th February. I put the case,
and received this reply over the signature
of “G. H. Unwin, Deputy Postmaster-
General ” ,
“ It appears there was no unnecessary delay . . .
An English and an American mail arrived simul-
taneously on Friday the 24th idem, and the.sorting
of the newspapers and packets received thereby
was not completed till late the following afternoon
(Saturday,), which would account for your not
receiving the newspaper under notice till Monday
the 27th.”
Now, I have no doubt that G. H. Unwin
is an estimable man and an excellent official;
and possibly he receives a hundred com-
plainte daily, and answers them politely,
according to formula, and goes home satis-
fied and cheerful. At the end of the month
he signs a voucher for salary, and. so his
innocent life passes away.
But observe that he is quite contented
with the inefficiency of his department. He
delivers Friday’s mail on Monday (some of
it,. by the way, came, gradually along on
and his mind is at peace.
“There was no unnecessary delay”—since
two mails arrived simultaneously, and appar-
ently disorganised his department. It does
not occur to him that whether there are one,
or two, or half-a-dozen mails, it is his busi-
ness to foresee them, and meet them, and
overcome them. It does not strike him that
between two o’clock on Friday afternoon
and six o’clock on Saturday morning there
are sixteen hours for sorting Sydney city
mails, at from 600 to 1000 items per sorter
per hour. We are taught that time is of
little moment in the Govt, service; but
should it not be of moment in the Post-
Office ? The Deputy Postmaster-General
does not seem to think so. '
&
Now supposing I went farther—my arm
would be into the Cloud. Supposing I went
and saw Mr. Unwin. If he had time to see
me, I have no doubt he would receive me
courteously. He might explain that he had
only a certain number of employees to sort
mails, and s that these ended woi'k at certain
hours, and no more could be done. And if
I asked why he did not employ more sorters,
and keep relays going till the arrears of work
were overtaken, he might explain that his
staff expenditure was strictly controlled, and
refer me to the Postmaster-General.
That would send me off to Melbourne,
farther into the Cloud. The Postmaster-
General, supposing he had time to deal with
the matter at all, and took an interest in
my honest ignorance, would refer the
matter to Mr. Unwin for report ; and
Mr. Unwin, having committed himself
to a course of action, would naturally con-
tinue his course of action ; and the Post-
master-General being obliged to leave
details to his subordinates—would naturally
back him up. Or if I were permitted to
press the question home, I might be told
that the Post Office, as a mere Post Office,
does hot pay ; and that efficiency would cost
more, money without adding anything to
revenue ; arid that there is Parliament to con-
sider. By that time I would ■ have “seen”
about twenty people, and written perhaps
fifty letters, and spent, perhaps a.fortnight’s
time—and the ploud would be right round
me. Then I would withdraw, moist and
vanquished, and the Cloud would close
up automatically and wait for the next com-
plainant, t(
And all the time it would be nobody's ftxult.
Nobody would have any definite and final
responsibility. Everybody would have a
perfectly valid reason for inefficiency—as far
as his limited responsibility went, and all
kinds of contingent shields and defences in
the shape of departmental regulations, de-
partmental votes, departmental exigencies,
and so on.
So there you are ; the Cloud triumphs.
jt '
Now this, as a personal grievance, is not
worth telling about : and I cite it only
as a peg on which to hang a comment-
ary upon the thing that goes on. It is
the same in , many other departments
—the department of Lands is a notori-
ous case. Inefficiency flouriShas, and nobody
is to blame. You meet polite and well-
intentioned official after official, and each
thrusts the responsibility a little farther on.
And there is no final responsibility any-
where-—certainly hot with the Minister, who
is but one man, and would need a hundred
men’s time and energy to look into every
grievance. < t ,
The Post-Office, of course, has a monopoly
of the carriage of letters ; and monopolists
proverbially take things easy. If “ private
enterprise,” with not a monopoly but com-
petition, carried the mails, it is likely
that people with grievances would have a
better chance of redress ; since the success
of the enterprise would depend upon the satis-
faction of clients. But “private enterprise”
might bring greater evils in its train* and
we are agreed that, after all, the Post Office
does not do so badly. But it never gets
past the point where the Government
stroke commences. There is always a re-
siduum of inefficiency.
Reflecting upon the Post Office ahd the
Lands Department and the other depart-
ments, one sees that the collectivist ideal,
when “ all the means of production arid dis-
tribution shall be owned and controlled by
the State,” is to be pursued rather cau-
tiously. It would never do to wait till
Monday for the delivery of Saturday’s chops,
and listen to a bland Daputy Butcher-
General explaining with due official un-
certainty that “it appears there was no
unnecessary delay.”
A.G.S.
At a meeting of the Vic. Australian Literature
Society in Melb. on 2nd March, Prof. Tucker
ventured the opinion that Bernard O’Dowd’s
Davmward? was “the best book of verses yet
produced in Australia.”
No. 1. of L’ltalo-Australiano, a weekly news-
paper, arrives to bridge the ocean between Italy
and Australia. It is printed in Italian and
English, published in Sydney, and edited by J. A.
Crain under the superintendence of a committee
of Italian residents. The spirit of the new paper
is kindly, its tenets are unexceptionable ; and
one trusts it will live and prosper.
“The origin of the name ‘lmpressionist’ in art.
In 1883 when the jurbrs of the 1 Salbn refused to
admit the works of the little band of innovators,
who had already made a great stir in artistic
circles, the Emperor insisted that a room should
be set aside for their sole use, called the ‘ Salon
des Refuses.’ Among the pictures thus hung was
a sunset by Claude Monet labelled ‘lmpressions,’
which excited the special derision of the public
who crowded into the room to jeer at the new
school of painting, and from that day forward the
name of ‘lmpressionist’ has clung to any artist
who has adopted the new theories and methods.”
LADY CONTRIBUTORS
I WANT to be taken seriously.
Editors won’t. They smile, and
pay me compliments ; I want cash.
Girls never have enough money. I
know I have n’t. And I can write ! I ’ve
had things in The Australasian, and four
paragraphs in The Bulletin, and an article in
The Evening News. I like The Bulletin
best; the young man that pays me has such
nice brown eyes. But four paragraphs don’t
go very far. I try, and try, but I don’t seem
to make any progress. Yet everybody is so
polite : I never knew such politeness ! And
oh ! lam tired of politeness. If they would
only be rude, and print my work. But
they won’t.
I thought things over, and came to the
conclusion that I wasn’t frumpish enough.
A lady contributor is supposed to be a
frump, isn’t’she? Then you men take her
seriously. Well, I’m not a frump, you know,
not exactly. But I found out I’d been going
on the wrong lines. I’d been choosing my
very best dresses and hats to call on editors,
and trying to look as nice as I possibly
could. I came to the conclusion I was
looking too nice; I ought to dress the
frump’s part. So I just set my wits to
work, and I did.
I had something I thought would do for
The Sydney Mail. The Mail-oAitov is simply
awfully polite— such a dear gentleman ! —-
and he won’t even sit down while I ’m in the
room. Only he doesn’t take me seriously ;
I. feel that. So I got out a very ’dowdy serge '
dress—a thing I used to go yachting in years
ago, and I borrowed a hat from the house-
maid—you should hare seen me ! And I
practised woebegone faces before the mirror :
I wanted to make him pity me—no, I didn’t
care if he pitied me or not if he’d only be in
earnest. But I don’t believe he noticed how I
was dressed. You see, I can’t make myself
ugly, can I ? Anyway, he simply would
not take me seriously. I came away quite
mad. >
Well, The Bulletin —I thought I could
risk a bit/ The Bulletin is a—What ‘shall 1
say ?—rather rorty paper, Isn’t it? Anyway,
I decided to look modest, and simple, and
sweet—like Priscilla, you know, in Long-
fellow. So I took off all my rings, and I was
going to wear a brooch, but at the last
moment I pinned it under my blouse—just a
plain white blouse, with a bit of openwork
round the neck, and a plain canvas skirt, 1
and the very shabbiest hat I had. Well, I
looked rather fetching, you know j,* and then
I went along. No use. The office simply
.overflowed with compliments — hateful ! No,
not hateful exactly ; but it was n’t what I
wanted. I wanted to be a regular contribu-
tor, and get the money, and they would n’t
say anything about that. I went home and
cried.
Well, then, I tried The Evening News,
that’s a funny place with a lot of dusty stairs.
I saw one man, who brought me a chair, and
then another man, who brought me another
chair, and then I saw the editor, who gave
me another .chair —three chairs altogether.
But he would n’t proiiiise anything, and ht
wouldn’t take me seriously. I loyked hor-
rible that day, and at first he called me
“ Madam.” Then I could n’t help grinning,
and he grinned too, and then it was all over.
I went out and tumbled over two chairs, and
came away disgusted.
That’s all—except —oh, yes ! I went
to a concert once, and I looked round,
and I could see there wasn’t a reporter
there. So I thought here’s a chance !
When we went out I got my brother
to take me down to one of the offices
—I won’t tell you which. I had a lovely
dress on—blue suits me—and when
I asked for the editor I was shown in at
once. He referred me to soipebody else,
so I went in and told him, and he asked me
to write it out, and waited while I wrote
it. Then he talked and paid me compli-
ments—like the others, only more sentimen-
tal. I thought of poor Charlie outside,
but I didn’t care to stop him ; but at last I
had to say “ Will you excuse me I have a
friend waiting ” —and what do you think he
did ? He took my hand, and held it, and
squeezed it, and then ho came very close and
said, “May I—may I hiss you for good-
bye?” Oh dear, I got out as quick as I
could, and left him apologising ; and next
day there was n’t a word of what I’d written
about the concert —was n’t it mean ?
So I suppose I ’ll have to give up. I won’t
get accepted as a frump until ‘‘ I can very
well pass for forty-three, -in the dusk with
the light behind me.” And if you’re not a
frump ft’s no use.
But oh ! I do so want to be taken
seriously.
“ Viking ” writes :
Let me defend the Old Masters, who have some enemies
in Australia, and many friends who praise them for what
I despise. That man •praises their colours, this man their
drawing, another raves over the durableness of their
work. Ido not admire their colours, knowing anatomy
I smile at their drawing. I hold that the artist is not to
be praised for the excellence of his materials. To the
maker be the praise. I say that the old masters were not
painters—they were Artists.
Study the portrait of Pope Paul. Did ever man have
such flesh? Did ever human face assume that guise?
Surely that is no likeness of Paul ? No. The artist did
not paint the physical man alone, but the inward man.
He saw Paul’s inward nature, and gave it to us as he
interpreted it. See the glance of the eye, the set of the
mouth, the nose ! You do not see the man, but the pride
of the great temporal ruler and the arrogance of the
great spiritual monarch. That is the triumph of the
artist.
Turn to the portraits of the Medicis. There you have
fine clothes in abundance, but you do not see them. They
fade. You cannot recollect them, though you know they
were there. What you do see and remember is the
expression of unfathomable craft, boundless prvde,
inflexible, unscrupulous will, and unbridled ambition.
Come to Hornhorst’s portrait of Montrose. The eanyas
tells you more of the Covenanter-Royalist than you can
learn from Moubray Morris. There is pride (damnable
reiteration of the word—l mean the consciousness of
innate superiority), there is self-sacrificing patriotism,
varied by self-interest, dauntless courage, and duplicity
stamped over it all. That is a likeness, but in the eyes of
the devotees of “ technique ” it is a daub.
Here is Charles I. Is that a portrait of Charles the
man ? Does not the face rather speak from the silent
canvas and proclaim, “I am the Stuart, the benevolent
despot.” It is the face of the man who believed in himself
and in the right divine of kings. The artists are justified
in their works. Come to the fair women of Romney,
Gainsborough, and Reynolds. What have we? Insipidity
of feature first. Yet there is cunning 'behind those
demure eyes. Over it all is—shall I say it ?—fastidious
sensuality.
It is not art to paint a face, but it is art to portray the
character of man, to make the face express the spirit.
Be ye therefore idealists.
So much for the old masters. It is but a step from the
sublime to the ridiculous. We will walk to the Art
Gallery and look at the Goldsmith’s Poster. Retch a
curtain, master attendant, and coverall but the face of
Solomon. What do you see? The face, of an Asiatic,
nothing more. Where is the grave dignity of the great
philosopher, the personal stateliness of the mighty ruler,
the qxultant pride of the builder of the >Lord’s Temple,
the abandon of the superb voluptuary? You say the
painter could not blend them. Then cast ye the unpro-
fitable painter into outer darkness. For verily I say unto
you that he who fails to paint our human virtues, vices;
and follies into our faces, may hang about the streets,
but he shall not hang upon the wall.
By Thor and Odin! Here is a coloured photograph of
Edward VII. A man, even as others are, but clad in finer
raiment. \Vha,t .passes within that head? The painter
does not say. Perhaps a thought of the entente
cordiale, perhaps a plan for the union of the
British family? Perhaps the regal mind designs
a new cravat. We cannot read what is not written.
One moment! That leader of the cavalry charge has
the light of battle in his face, but it is not strong enough
to dominate his clothes. That unspotted uniform, that
groomed mudless horse, are not compatible with a charge
in Buonaparte's bloody fields.
A word of sculpture.
There is in the parish church of St. Albans a stone effigy
of Bacon. But the rude chiseler had the soul of an artist.
Nrom under the shadow of the plumed hat (thanks for
that shadow) there glances the haunting look of a des-
pondent man who, conscious of his mental worth, has
realised the depths of his unworthiness. Across three
centuries we spare a sigh for the poor self-despising Lord
of Verulam.
Get hence, stonecutter. Study that shadow.
The Rev. D. W. Duthie—who apparently has
Australian experience—gives The Strand maga.
some stories of clerical humour
An Australian bishop, presented with two splendid
carriage horses, named them Bryant and May : because
(1) they were an ideal match, (2) they contained hidden
fire, (3) they went off when struck from the box.
A favourite narrative in Natal describes how one ,of
Bishop Colenso’s priests was in the habit of going out
each morning to the Indian stores for three fresh eggs—
one for his wife’s breakfast and two for himself. One day
he returned with a face full of concern. “ What is the
matter?" was the query. “I hope you haven’t hurt
yourself.” “No ; but I have broken one of the eggs, and
it’s your egg, my dear.”
A young Australian clergyman, at the most critical
passage of the burial service, declared: “We commote
her biddy to the earth ! ” ...
An incumbent of the 1 name of Price disappeared from
his parish in Victoria, taking with him nearly 2001. of
church money. “The locum teiiens who took his place
was impelled by his evil genius to deliver Iris first sermon
from the text, “ Without money and without price.”
Another pastor preached his first sermon in-a new cure
from the Song of Solomon, taking for his text the'words
“Come away, my love, oome away.” Ever and-anon in
his discourse he introduced the text fervidly. But he
couldn’t understand the suppressed laughter of the con-
gregation. A venerable churchwarden explained it in
the vestry. “Surely you know, sir, the circumstances
under which you have come among us?” “ No, indeed.”
“ Then it is my painful duty to inform you that our late
vicar eloped with the doctor’s wife ! ” ... . .
A farewell meeting at Melbourne iii honour of a retiring
bishop will long be remembered for some ludicrous com-
parisons made by a prominent citizen, who was one of the
bishop’s greatest admirers. Referring to the health and
circumstances of the parting.guest, he likened him to the
patriarch Job in three particulars: because, in the first
place, he had lost his wife ; in the second place, he had
lost his money ; in the third place, he was covered with
boils! ,
“ Pucha’s” idea of Irish needs seems to be met
by the new Irish Reform Association, whose
objects are: —
(1) To encourage co-operation amongst all Irishmen,
irrespective of creed or class, for the development of the
country’s resources and for the promotion of the welfare
of'the people. (2) To secure for Ireland such effective
control of purely Irish affairs as may be compatible with
th maintenance of the legislative Union between Great
Britain and Ireland and with the supremacy of the
Imperial Parliament.
Richard Strauss, the musical was
entertained in London at a dinner of musicians
andwcritics— one of whom made a long, fiflsome
speech that concluded with “Richard Strauss
knows all. He is the Buddha of composers.
Daring the applause Strauss whispered to hifl
neighbour, “If I am a musioal Buddha, surely
that last speaker is a musical Pesth ! ”
The publisher's preliminary notice of Oscar
Wilde’s De Profundis, written in gaol, says that
“not the least noteworthy” of its pages “are
devoted to a very subtle and study of
Christ as the Precursor of the Roms“tic Move-
nie :t in Life.” j


gsergs
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
-Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
rdg
And all Kinds of BUTCHER’S PRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. YDNEY.
The [eading House for Sporting Goods and
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2}in. Cartridges, Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
“The Reliable,”
PRICE £6 12S 6d
?
HOLLIS & SONS’ “KITCHENER,” 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,, top lever, double-
bolted action, extended rib, twist or steel barrels, chambered tor 2|in. cartridges,
left choke ri'dit cylinder, rebounding locks, hammers below line of sight, snap fore-end, half-
pistol walnut stock, GUARANTEED for SMOKELESS POWDER. Absolutely the best
value in the States at price
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLEIS GUN, 12-gauge, top
lever genuine Damascus or “Siemen’s” steel barrels, both choke, side lock action, automatic
safety bolt extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with the Greener cross-bolt,
neatly engraved, chambered for 2|in. cartridges.. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS
POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States
£5
£l2 12s
sd
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight
s£lb
£5
fg
THE GLOBE P.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 gauge, top
lev.er, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. & E. fore-end, pistol
grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. ..
Western Arms Coy.’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12 gauge, top
action, nickel breech block,
similar to Allen & Hopkins’
Gun, but without the self-
ejecting action, jg
HARRINGTON & RICHARDSON’S 5.8.-
B.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top action, automatic
self-ejecting, decarbonised steel barrel, case
hardened frame, walnut stock,
27s 6d
I
Portable
“Orchard ” Gun, 410^.
A Splendid Shot Gun for Orchards, blued Steel barrel, O'! -J e n
case-hardened locks .. . .. * ■ lw U
sdf
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifle
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 31b.
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb.
REMINGTON S.S." Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20ih.
_ barrel, weight 3£lb.
WINCHESTER Repeating Rifles, 1892 model, any calibre, half or full magazine. Round barrel, 55/-
> Octagon barrel
PIEPER’S “BAYARD” S.S. Rifles, 22 Gab, 20in. octagon barrel, weight 3|lb., 18/6
STEVENS’ “CRACK-SHOT” Rifle, 22 Calibre, round 20in. barrel, caSe-hardened frame, side
lever action, oiled walnut stock, weight 3Jlb., open front and rear sights
STEVENS’ “ FAVORITE,” 22 or 32 Calibre, rim fire, 22in. half-octagon barrel, under-lever action,
case •’hardened frame, solid breech block, weight 4 Jib., open front and rear sights, 30/- ; or with
Beach combination front sight, and open rear and vernier
V
15S
£0 18 6
16 6
2 17 6
1.16
16 6
2 0 0
gs
REVOLVERS.
VEST POCKET REVOLVERS, 22 Calibre, r. fire, weight -
about 50z... .. 12s 6(1, 13s 6d, 21s
YOUNG AMERICA REVOLVERS, 22 or 32 Calibre, 2in.
barrel 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s
SMITH & WESSON Pattern, automatic self-ejecting, nickel
or blued 3iin. barrel, 320 Cal., 13s 6d ; 380 Calibre.. 15s 6d
BULLDOG REVOLVERS, double action, 320 Calibre .. 6s 6d, 78 6d
BULLDOG REVOLVERS, double'action, 330 Calibre, 9s 6d
450 Calibre.. 10s 6d
HARRINGTON’S “S. &W.” Pattern, 32 Cal., small frame.. 20s, 22s 6d
HARRINGTON’S “S. & W.” Pattern, Hammerless, 32 Calibre .. .. .. .. .. .. 255, 27s 6d
ALLEN & HOPKINS’ “ S. & W.” Pattern, 32 Calibre—SPECIAL QUOTATION 17s 6d
& WESSON REVOLVERS, ’96 model, band ejector, 32 Calibre 90s
COLT’S NEW POLICE REVOLVERS, automatic ejector, 32 Calibre 75s
WEBLEY’S MARK 111. REVOLVERS, 320 Calibre 90s
BROWNING AUTOMATIC PISTOL, (7 shot) 50s
MAUSER AUTOMATIC PISTOL AND CARBINE (10 shot) £5
& AMfcRICAN
rjCAw»©*<fc
PF* Illustrated Sports, Fishing Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
ABSOLUTELY TflE BEST VALUE IN THE STATES
GUARANTEED
PERFECTLY
ACCURATE^
RELIABLE.
ff\e P] s\i r\e. Pifle
Pi fie Aparf
22 <sf>orr or Lang. fi/et fine. 00/rAcfiorr
Pound Q/ued Sreel/s/ncP Barrel. Weight2/+
fined rr/ff)p/a/nllor J/fd/ng Bach 3/fhrs
(duarranfeedfor3oo roi) Po/idiexffinlnor
■5/och. Pos/dde on#/fie. hdo exPo-
Awarded Gold Medal, 1903*4.
V'/ITH PLAIN SIGMTS 13/6
‘SLIOING SIGHTS TO 3OOYOS 15/6
C<trfncf&?z Cart Onfyße Oe/,vered by Rail or Boat
CONICAL BALI
Gun Cartridges .
AMMUNITION.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
~ 22 Short ..
„ 22 Long-
„ 22 Long 1 Rifle ..
~ 22 Extra Long..
"ft 100 $lOOO
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Od 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
dfgsdf
be&&Y
3/6
Jo'
'— l
Hanmca*
g
STANbARb
7/3
sdf
Ascoi
2/6
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
f. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s9d, 4s 9d
Full Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Close Strung: .. 16s 6d
Cork Hahdle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung 1 .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Eenshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
eov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s fcov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
BOXING GLOVES.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set;
60z., 12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
Taylor’s Lawn Bowls.
3rd Quality, No. 3 Bias—l6s 6d, 18s 6d pair
Ist Quality, No. 3 Bias—2os, 24s pair
Extra Quality, No. 3 Bias —245, 27s 6d pair
Everylßowi tested and stamped by
the N.S.W. Bowling Association.
TAYLORS*
"«•=/-» .. r;fe~vJsf> f :££?*^ r r ~
*5
AUCHTERLONIE’S CLUBS—
Drivers, Cleeks, Irons or
Mashies .. 6s 9d
Bulger Brassies .. .. 7s 6d
Straight or Bent Neck
Patent-Putters.. .. 8s
“8.G.1.” CLUBS-
“ Fairfield ” Drivers,
Brassies and Irons .. 4s 6d
First Quality Drivers,
Brassies and Irons .. 6s 6d
SPALDING’S CLUBS—
“Morristown ” Brassies .. 4s 6d
“Crescent” Drivers,
Brassies or Ircxns .. 6s 9d
GOLF BALLS—
Ayres’ Practice, 10s 6d doz.
“ Silvertown,” 15s 6d doz.
Haskell (American),
30s doz.
We have the best selection of GOLF
MATERIAL in Australia.
Golf Sundries of every description stocked.
PUNCHING BALLS.
Swinging Ball, complete, with best
quality Bed Rubber Bladder
7s 6d, 11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s, 21s,
255, 27s 6d. •
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete— lss6d, 16s 6cl,
18s 6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fixing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rubber (best), 2/0 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels —
Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market, Sydney.


» SUCCESSFUL SPECIALIST
In all Private, Nervous, Skin, and Blood Diseases.
There comes a time when you need a doctor, and, when that time comes, remember that I am
at your service, no matter where you may reside in the Colonies
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,e«h*,
M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P., E„ L.R.C.S., E., L.F.P.S.G., etc.
- REGISTERED IN GREAT BRITAIN, VICTORIA, AND N.S.W.
My system of treatment is to build up, and the experience of nearly a quarter of a century
proves me right.
Send for Dr. Martin's Medical Work, Posted
FREE on receipt of Stamps to cover postage.
CONSULTATIONS PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
REMEDIES FORWARDED FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STSYDNEY .
Aertex
Cellular
Underwear,
Shirts,
Pyjamas, &c.
And
Ladies '
Underwear
of every description.
Samples, Pamphlets and Price
Lists, post free, from
says
aa
Hi
ass
mm
g^g
seas
03
frSift
99
««*«
iSSg
r«
<>
DAVID BRAHAM & DO.,
SOLE AGENTB,
75 King-street, Sydney
gs
df
gs
WORN
BY
ROYALTY.
* jI'IQUmIII; 1*
Will do more to give you a feeling of youtli and bngfctneTs than all the drugs io
the pharmacopoeia. The hard street is made as soft and pleasant to walk on as a grass
lawn. Saves ten times their cost in the boot bill.
Render worn down heels impossible, relieve spinal concussion thus saving the nerves
and reducing fatigue. Sold by every up-to-date boot and shoe dealer and general storekeeper.
CAUtrOM-Seo the name “ WOOO-MILNE ” on every Pad.
Sole Agents for AUSTRALASIA, D. & W. MURRAY, Ltd.
Adelaide. Kalgoortle. Launceston. Townsville. Perth. Melbourne. Brisbane. Broken Hill.
Sold Manufacturers of the Wond-MilocHerts -REVOLVING HEEL Co., Preston, ENGLAND.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES. -
IN) EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book •
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
IN DIET,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature's Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked ENO’3 'FRUIT SALT** Without it you ban a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, EZfG.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
ENO’S
FOR ERRO
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
THE “MELBA” ACCORDEON.
dfg
\VfE do not recommend the “ HELBA ” because it is lower in price
than others, such may be true, but because the “ fIELBA ”
excels all others in the most important quality an instrument can
possess— TONE.
This is the result of the superior quality of the alloy used in the
reeds, and the employment of experts in reed “ voicing,” an art which is
imperfectly understood by the ordinary maker of Accordeons.
The “ riELBA ” ACCORDEON, No. 717, is fitted with three
sets of reeds, nine fold double bellows, leather lined corners fitted with
metal protectors.
To anyone mentioning The Bulletin we will send the above Post
Free for 205., including Carl Bruno’s Accordeon Tutor, containing
Popular Songs, Waltzes, &c.
ALLAN’S, 276, 278 Collins-street, Melbourne.
The
‘PLUM’
sdf
THE
‘PLUM’
Q-ENTLEMEK This razor 18 superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rui™
a ’ “ nd " ever re( l ulres grinding:. Being: practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edpe that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having: had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOlt TWO YEARS. 7 "
THc “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially' made for this Razor, 7a. Od.
RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather 21*,
(.Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 16*. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
l Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of tiie Wor j,i>.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and It. on Intercolonial Cheque*.
sole Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney,
THE fIOCOBtiEON for Country Residents.
mml
, €"J/fccdrd&oP
'(fj
1
o
We don't believe any Accordeon comes
eo near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
largo bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
f broad steel bronze reeds. [Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality (as per illustration), with 3 sets of Reeds and
Organ Stop, J£l 5 s. Other Accordeons, 7/6 to 63/-
Send for Cat,alcgruo D.
For GRAMOPHONE see our advertisement on another page.
HEINDORFF BROS
Importers of Pianos, Watches, & Jewellery
210 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE. [2
ARE YOU PIT'?
“ 1 FITNESS ’ is that delightful condition of Health and
Vigor that makes ordinary tasks and duties mere child’s
play, and renders competition and difficulties more easily
encountered and overcome.”
IS
w,
/ SS
' «#!
Unfitness is a heavy
drag upon a man’s
energies and powers.
It renders him faint
of heart, so that he
can neither win nor
hold a fair lady, nor
succeed in business,
nor satisfy his em-
ployers, and it des-
troys all his power of enjoyment and pleas-
ure. . . . The man who succeeds is
FIT; the man who fails is UNFIT. Nat-
urally you wish to be Fit —you wish to
succeed, we all do. Took then to your
Health, to your Physical Strength, and to
your Nerve Vigor and Energy. Do not
allow a Weak Physical Condition to become
your lot in life ; do not allow your Nervous
System to become Impaired and Disorgan-
ized, so that your Will-Power, your Con-
centrativeness, your Judgement, and your
Mental Faculties are alike weakened, and
sure to fail you when the pinch arises.
When you find that a pessimistic, morbid
depression of spirits has saturated your
mind, and jaundiced your outlook on life ;
when the day’s duties appal you because
you feel physically weak, ill, and nervous;
when you avoid feminine society because
you fear to fail in pleasing, then is the
time to take heed. Your health is in
need of immediate attention. You should not delay a moment. Thousands
of men have suffered in this same way, and have been restored to perfect
Health and Vigor by means of this Marvellous Invention . . .
dr. McLaughlin s electric belt.
It counteracts such lowering and weakening tendencies. The Electrical
Energy generated by the Belt is absorl>ed as Vital Energy into your system
through the pores of the skin, with which, however, there is no metallic
contact. Not all at once, not by shock or violence, but by a continuous,
gfeutle diffusion, hour by hour, and minute by minute. And oh! the
difference it makes to you ; it cheers your spirits, increases your strength
and powers, and revitalises your Nervous Energy, so that you gradually
become fit to fight, to struggle, and to conquer the difficulties and ill-health
that now beset you. How much better this would be than your present
unfitness in health and vigor ! How much more enjoyable! And how
much more contributive to your success in life and love!
SCIATICA, INDIGESTION , AND WEAKNESS.
P.illjgrtori, LAGGAN, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—Your Belt has done me a great deal of good. I have no pains in any
part of my body now, and I feel strong and can work regularly. My appetite is good ;
I can sleep well, and my digestive organs are greatly improved. I have not had the
need of any kind of medicine s nee I started wearing the Belt. It is a pure and simple
life-giver. In conclusion, I ten ler my heartfelt thanks for your kindness, and remain,
Very respectfully yours, JOHN M. SMITH.
m e j Bjj m
pf r 1 m J
tea a | 1 j
Write for our Beautifully-Illustrated
96-page Book. It will show you how
Electricity cures most of the Ailments
of Mankind. It is full of facts and items
of interest about this Wonderful Curative
Agent. We will send you one, together
with our Book of Wonderful Cures, FREE
and POST PAID to any address on re-
ceipt of a Post-Card or Letter.
If you can call, do so, and we shall be
pleased to give you a Free Personal Test of our Belt, and will tell you
candidly whether Electricity will cure you or not. Our Advice is Free.
RUPTURE CAN BE PERMANENTLY CURED BY USING
THE DR. MCLAUGHLIN ELECTRO-PLASTIC TRUSS.
OFFICES OPEN EVERY WEEK-DAY from 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
the dr. McLaughlin go.
100 W. Market St., Sydney
N.Z. Office—
Willis St., Wellington


m
~ f: .
/
A little vanity is a good tiling.
Every woman should try, at all times,
to look her very best. But it certainly
must bo discouraging to have your
mirror tell you that your hair is gray
when you aro only thirty or fifty!
Gray hair adds twenty years to the
age. Why not look as young as you
are,,or even younger ?
Ayer's Hair Vigor
Always restores color to gray hair,
always. Brings back all the deep,
rich, beautiful color of early youth.
Perhaps tho color of your hair suits,
but you are losing the hair itself. You
are threatened with thin hair, rough
hair, scraggly hair. Your hair seems
weak, not well nourished. Then give
it Ayer’s Hair Vigor, a true hair-
food. It stops falling hair, makes
the hair grow, and keeps it soft and
silky.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
i n c. ri lun-uurtoa WAsmiNU IVI A |
(Uegd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
O
>
-<
For Blouses;
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: '* ‘Viyella’ lias
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
&
sCOHCOHBOyS
IT ITS
V
Line
juice
AGENTS *.
Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
J. Connell & Co.,
Sydney.
0. Cohen & Co.,
Newcastle.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gel; Posted, Bd.
BONIN I NGTON'S
Will Stop a Cough ffd
'rtf' 7 &iy o/tier apt/, 'c/e for- purpose, one sma//
pose, acts ///re y chapm t <>.’/#Tfrigd/he '/rritatiop.
/7 f 5. oamtrao/y d'c/dpfef Sov fhdcfteU o \s. we// es
a Cold
no better
preodruf jon cor teuzef of dtiroet/cßrorrch, -
dso/a/e/yv(z?%'(f-fy fe me of me. /,p>p pu6;
v/cppeaAerj & s/ope/s trrroufAQf tftQ mptry the Tt/erfe/y-tp- f
, Siren ghten the Voice ww,
rriory/j actorSaroo' Yota/P f we 1 'etipecffud/rlroti-
we// /rnoyy/j _. JH „
-c/er/is/ properties of 3o;r//.><*for/< sr/ss/moss 3j£S o yo/ce
restoratiye. To //?ose wfn ppc ,>/ <}// wea/t chested/f
/j at once recorome/ti/ca ‘o
Build up fhe Lon^s
-hep? te<?//tiy yj/7(t stro//y, ,/// tiffh ' / .•■ remedy for f/t
o r -:// :p r/v seases, and < yv/ 'dti/rpti , ,/> yls e ar/y s/o Tes
':pc tk %?As o/ute/yeractioofx/ hypf foe.
Solo Everyw/urf r
g
w
AUTOMATIC- r,fle
.22 CALIBER MODEL 1903
LIKE HISTORY IT REPEATS ITSELF
As a means of pleasure and sport, the Winchester Automatic
Rifle is as far ahead of any other .22 Caliber as an automobile
is ahead of the historic one-horse shay. After loading this
rifle, all that it is necessary to do to shoot it ten times is to
pull the trigger for each shot. Although automatic in action,
it is simple in construction and not apt to get out of order.
For city, country or camp it is the gun of the day.
Sold by all dealers. Manufactured by
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., - NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
CiOANTIG BUSINESS CONVERSION SALE FOR CASH is Now Proceeding.
ASTOUNDING REDUCTIONS IN ALL DEPARTMENTS. If you have not already taken advantage of this
Gigantic bale, you are losing money, for it is The Biggest Bargain Festival ever known in Queensland.
Here are a few plums out of the many :
o , Men’s Black Cashmere Sac Coats, well finished, sizes 3 to 7, usual price 12s 6d, Conversion
Sale Price, post free, 7s 6d.
• ? Hairline Drillable Sac Suits ancf Trousers, splendid washers, sizes 3 to 7, usual
price 14s 6d, Conversion Sale Price, post free, Ss 9d the Suit.
„ , Men’s Pure Linen Crash Coats, great wear-resisters, sizes 3 to 7, usual price 10s 6d, Conversion
Sale Price, post free, 7s 9d.
Men’s White Duck and Drill Trousers, sizes 3 to 7, usual price 7s 6d, Conversion Sale Price,
post free, 5s 9d pair. ’
Men’s White C rill Sacs, and Patrol Jackets, sizes 3to 7, usual price Ss 6d, Conversion Sale
Jrnce, post free, 6$ 9di.
Men’s Tussore Silk Sac Coats, well cut, sizes 3 to 7, usual price 17s 6d, Conversion Sale Price,
post tree, 7 3s*
ALL SUMMER GOODS during this Great Sale will be closed out at similar Great Reductions on Ordinary Rates.
«** LADIES ! Send for Samples and Prices of Drapery, Dress Goods, &c., &c.
We won tgo into the “ Why or Wherefore” with you—we have an occasion to mark, and mean to make
it memorable. YOU CAN’T BEAT FINNEY’S.
Finney, Idles & Co., Limited, The Big Block, BRISBANE.
L
%
n
x
The Watches I Sell
are Reliable.
I Stock the world’s best Timekeepers, each one
carefully adjusted and guaranteed. The illustration,
shown is an 18ct. Gold Keyless Watch, richly en-
graved and finished, Price 9c . 70s
Send me your Mail Orders for
Watches,
They will be executed to your satisfaction
Buying from me means a saving
of Money and Time. An ILLUS-
TRATED CATALOGUE sent free
upon application.
£5.
sdf
■u,
KLESMm
ip^wiert
(\£
s>'
gs
Various Verses.
[FOT THE BULLETIN.]
The Quiet Street.
They told me I must leave my little cottage by
the sea,
And Say farewell to Manly once for all;
The place, they said, would still survive, unpat
ronised by me—
But I must hear no more the breakers call.
The breakers, ah the breakers! How they rush
and how they roar !
The sun delights to kiss their crests of snow.
Hear the shouting of the captains as they dash
upon the shore,
Like Murat’s horsemen charging long ago !
And, ah, the merry bathers, who go down in
summer frocks,
And, in a moment, lo ! are clad in none !
Like nymphs of Amphitrite they move round with
dripping locks,
And lithe limbs shining glossy in the sun.
They wear bright bathing costumes (zebra-striped
and spotted-blue,
And many other patterns in strange hues),
All fitting so the figure that they might be mere
tattoo —
And the doctors said this sight, too, I must lose !
“The Manly air too heavy is,” they said—“too
full of brine,
And therefore you must get away with speed :
Your swagg’ring days are over—bid good-bye to
rosy wine—
And remember you are now an invalid.
Go back unto the city, where the air is not so
strong;
Take lodgings in a quiet, decent street—
“l’d recommend”—he named a name, to tell it
might be wrong,
But I intend to shoot him when we meet.
I took the lodgings in the street, so quiet and so
good—
I may say that it is In Darlinghurst—
I’ve lived before in many a loud and noisy neigh-
borhood,
But, of all I’ve seen, for noises this is worst.
The carts they rattle up and down, they go and
come again ;
The hoarse cry of the hawkers will not cease :
But the racket is respectable, and, though it
cleaves your brain,
There’s no excuse to send for the police.
The blessed breeze of evening cools the hot and
stagnant air ;
An invalid may have some respite sweet—
But no ; the German Band arrives with dreadful
blazen blare,
And murders Music foully in the street.
The Army—God forgive them, for they know not
what they do !
March down the street with purpose good and
grim; -
They also mar the blessed peace, the weak, well-
meaning crew,
With lurid speech and sanguinary hymn.
And on the nights when most of these afflictions
a.bsent are,
A piercing wail of agony is heard ;
It comes from one who thinks herself, poor girl, a
future “star”—
The wail we hear is “Sing (alas !) Sweet Bird !”
I will arise (that’s when I can) and to the country
go,
And live in pure, dry air on some great plain.
But may I never more eat bread, my cake be
always dough,
If in a Quiet Street I live again.
N.S.W.
V. J. DALEY.
Astray.
Dallying with fruit and flower,
I have wandered from the path ;
Lost myself in bank and bower—
Harvested forbidden fruit,
Heedless of the aftermath ;
Love, as law most absolute,-
Made for me his own sweet path.
Happy smiled the meadowland,
Laden with the wealth of spring,
Lending down on ev’ry hand,
Emerald slopes with stars bestrewn—
Fruits and flowers commingling ;
Brooks a-babble, all in tune ;
Nature breathed in everything |
Weary seemed the road and long ;
In the fields so greenly fair
Laughter rippled like a song,
Luring me to stay awhile
With the idlers gathered there....
And the road stretched mile on mile,
. Full of thorns and dust and care.
Where the happy sunlit streams,
Laced through intervening leaves,
There I made m3' Land of Dreams,
Life and love and heaven— then ;
Now my heart with sorrow grieves,
Sighing for the road again.
I am lonely, desolate ;
Autumn is upon the land ;
Winter, beating at the gate,
To the falling fruits and flowers
Stretches out a wizened hand ;
In the woods and fields and Lowers-
Only thorns and nettles stand.
Lost in a bewildered maze,
Now I know my choice was vain ;
Now the sun no longer plays,
And the wasted fruits corrode.
How I hate this thorny plain,
Heart-sicl* for the busy road,
And the stress of Life again !
N.S.W.
HAMER.


ITCHING HUMOURS
SPEEDY CURE TREATMENT
FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Bathe the affected parts with hot water and CUTICURA
SOAP, to cleanse the skin and scalp of crusts and scales, c.izc 3
soften the thickened cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and
apply CIJTICURA OINTMENT freely to allay itching, irritation,
and inflammation, and soothe and heal, and lastly take CUTI-
CURA RESOLVENT PILLS, to cool and cleanse the blood.
This pure, sweet, and wholesome treatment affords instant
relief, permits rest and sleep, and points to a speedy, perman-
ent, and economical cure of the most torturing, disfiguring,
itching, burning*, and scaiy skin, scalp, and blood humours,
eczemas, rashes, and irritations, from infancy to age, with
loss of hair, when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair,for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and dialings, and for all the pur-
poses of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Millions of Women use Cuticura
Soap in the form of baths for annoying irritations, inflammations, and
excoriations, for too free or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes
for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS, CHOCOLATE COATED,
Are a new, tasteless, odourless, economical substitute for the celebrated liquid Cuticura
Hksolvknt, as well as lor all other blood purifiers and humour cures.. Put up in screw-
cap pocket vials containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are alterative, antiseptic, to ic,
and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest, most successful and economical
blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonie-dige.tivcs, yet compounded.
Cuticub s Femt-piks are sold throughout the world. Australian Depots R. Towns & Co., Sydney. I'ritioh
Depot: 27-28, ( harte-hnuse Sq., London. Irencli Depots 6 hue de la Paix, Paris. Potter Druo and Ciieu.
Coep., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
mm,
■ ■
The TJniyersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
m
ESI
The Fhysician*S
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Ci ildren,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy,
■TOP"
Don’t wait till Xmas
to present yourself or friend with a
"SWAN
Fountain Fen.
19
A boon to the Business Man,
the Cleric, Lawyer, Doctor,
Student, Litterateur,
or Artist.
v> x
IL/asta
£o t If car®.
“SWAN” PENS arc fully guaranteed.
Sold by all Stationers, Jewellers and Importers,
Catalogue post free
Mabie, Todd & Bard
93, Gheapside, London, E.C.
dfgsdfgsdf
'S,
V
! HUM
ft
4
&
DR. AUSTIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
Is sold on this Basis to Men and
Women everywhere: Not to be
paid for until the Cure is Complete.
The Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only remedy in the
world which can be sold on such a plan. It is the only
never-failing- cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back
and Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder and Stomach
Troubles; in fact, all Chronic Diseases of Men and
Women. It cures after all other remedies have failed.
Why? Because it restores nerve life, animal vitality,
warmth and vigor to all the weakened parts.
Drugs only Stimulate, Dr. Austin’s
Electric Belt gives Lasting Strength.
Its Cures are Permanent.
SF'.AJ'Sr WHEW CURED.
You pay only when cured, if you can offer reasonable security. Failure to cure costs you nothing'. The
Dr. An tin IF it is warranted on a bond of £lOOO to give a stronger current, last longer, and to cure quicker
than any ot’ .a electric body appliance made. We make no charge for advice, written or personal.
gs
AV.i ,e tor
pert ('spffli
oar t-seautifully-lllustrated Medical Book and Letters from Cured Patients,
dl FREE. WBTTK TO-DAY, and you will be satisfied with the result.
The Dr, Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept, m,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
wmt¥
wii
ills
W'K
jeT
■a
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
11 this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from . the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
'he sense of taste and smell,
r enders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? if so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neu ralgi a, Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
I Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
, - ;:
rfr - j -
,i A.
I** ... . P* l*i- * ? ' ‘ l4 “
fi I,J
1,1 i p
?3Mk
ISO Horse-Power Electric Plant, operating 1 at
The Cathcart Proprietary Gold Mine, Ararat, Victoria.
Ganz&Go.
LIMITED
BUDAPEST, HUNGARY.
Complete Electric
Lighting, Power and
Traction Plants .
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS-
The Austral Otis
Engineering Go.
Cr. Hannah & Kavanagh Sts., South Melbourne. LTD -
dfg
&
BOOK OK NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Ur. Faulkner, illustrated
with overfiO engravings, new
1904 edition, hard covers',
improved, 3s 6d. Magic Up-
to-Date, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illus-
trated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, (id. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Maria
Monk, Is 6d How to
Dance, Is. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d. Nana ; I’iitng Hot ;
Rush for tiie Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Ur-to-Uate Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series,
2s. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter,
Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger
Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. Horse Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, is ;
post, Is 3d. Britain for tiie British, 6d.
Freemasonry Exposed and Explained, 1905 edi-
tion, with key to all degrees, Is. Cycle Building
and Repairing, new edition. 190 illustrations, Is 3d.
M\i fadden's Physical Training, Is. Virile Powers
of Superb .Manhood, ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Hep-
ta.mf.ron. and many others, all in cheap edition. Bride
of the First Night, 1/3. Rosario, the Female .Monk,
2 . llow to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Js 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing,
1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clair-
voyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy, is. How
to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing. Is 3d. How to Make Love. Is. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Picture
Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and os; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is.
Money Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets,
Is 3d Letter Writer Up -to - Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, hy l)i\
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kllly CTang of 'Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor. Is. French Art Studies, real
photos, 290 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
Botiiner’s Scientific W restling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. llow to Make Up, Illustrated
Uunle to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. L)r. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, i24S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, is 3d’
Advice to Women, Is; post, Is 3d. Dr. Alilford’s
Midwivk’s Handbook, 92 p-actieal illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s Gd. Clog Dancing, Is Building .Model
Boats, Is 3d. Nsw Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, Js 6d. Stolen Sweets, ls6d!
Blacksmith’s Work, is 3d. Lover s Letter Writer
Is. Photography, Is, Latest Song Books, 3d’
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.’
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s Od, 15s post!
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is. 2s 6d, and 6s 6d.
aNu ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, ls :
posted, ls 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any .State will do. Free
catalogues:—No. 1 : Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No 3-
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre!
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No 6 •
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature!
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
JAYNE S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHiSJ
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, 11 lieu ma tism.Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by I’oingoicstue & T human, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as 'proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
iu the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sor.u in two sizes, 9d. it Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk it Tiujman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment.
NOT BEING
A BELT
it will not burn or blister the
skin -There is nothing tc
wear round the body to
foster germs-it is sure,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
£1 of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
WRITE
for my new book ( illustrated) “Mens
Sana in Gorpore Sano.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and what you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S
i tug.
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by tfc -it justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they mav CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES.
Debility, and their serinu consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple ■ l al who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,


NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
ROTHerhaivis
ENGLISH WATCHES.
. a
W*Bafik*?*)*%: as, i
Sr
,r -y noTHti
LONE
sold by all
WHO-CAN'SHOW-
&
Jewellers.
ILLUSTRMED CATALOGUES
sd
INSOLVENT ESTATE of
WEAPON, THOMAS & CO.,
GUNMAKERS,
Corner of LITTLE COLLINS and ELIZABETH STREETS
MELBOURNE.
rr\IIE TRUSTEES offer to the public' to clear the whole
x of their Stock -
The Folding Collector’s Gun, 410 gauge—a splen-
did gun for orchards ; best steel locks and
barrels, reduced to £1 10 0
Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892 model, any
calibre, half or full magazine, octagon barrel ..£2 12 6
Winchester Pattern Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle, 1904 model, 22 short or long, reduced to £0 13 6
Remington Pattern S.S. Rifles, reduced to ..£0 10 6
10 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top
action, walnut stock, with cartridge machine,
cleaners, complete ; usual price £5 10s., re-
duced to £2 17 6
6 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib bar and rebounding locks, left
barrel full choke, right modified, pistol grip,
cartridge machines and cleaners, complete ;
usual price £lO, reduced to £5 0 0
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, walnut
stock, bar and rebounding locks, treble wedge
fast cross bolt, special No. 1 pistol grip, choke
bore, unequalled for quality, with cartridge
machines, cleaners, complete ; usual price
£l5, reduced to £7 10 0
C Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, hammer-
less, steel barrels, complete with cartridge
machines and cleaners; usual price £3 55.,
reduced to ~ .. .. £1 12 6
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, Green, ss. 6d. 100.
„ Smokeless, Bs. 100.
„ 22 Short, Is. Id. 100 ; 10s. 1000.
„ 22 Long, Is. 3d. 100 ; 12s. 1000.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Off! ce Orders must b
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
Send for Catalogue, Post Free. All orders delivered
arriage paid to any State and New Zealand.
ril Try It.*
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qspitlarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLK A9KNTS.
The Result.
CRAIG A, AIT KEN, N.S. W. Bai-ber’B Supply
House. 654 CEQRCE STREET, SYO lEY.
No
Humbugging
Offers or con-
ditions to
comply with.
fg
In order to introduce our Goods into every
home, a lady’s or gent.’s Rolled Gold Watch
Chain and Pendant will be presented, entirely
free, to each purchaser of one pair of our Special
Cuff Links, price, 4,0. Please note that we send
the Watch Chain and Pendant complete in case
with warranty alone; with the Cuff Links, im-
mediately we receive your postal note for 4/9 ;
if 3d extra is added goods will be sent by regis-
tered post, and thereby save any risk of breakage.
Address, THE INTRODUCING COMPANY,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE NEW
"RAJAH GOLD" NAME BROOCHES
Gold-cased, appear like solid gold. Good pins. Any name
from Ato Z (pet names included). PRICE, Is. 6d. each ;
any four names for ss. Post free anywhere. Make a club
of 4, and send ss. postal note for any 4 names; you’ll
certainly be pleased with them. Any Motto of not
more than 12 letters engraved without extra charge.
Mizpah, Forget-Me-Not, Regard, Baby, Mother, Good
Luck, Pet, etc., etc.
(Mention this paper,)
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Early Issues oj Australian
1850-60
Purchased
Price lists
Posf
Free
STRAND
SYOM
POSTAGE
STAMPS
Cash scnh
By
Refurn
\Mail
There is MONEY
old LETTERS]
on your
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS COLtd
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines & Water Tube Boilers, Wo- ’ irking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c.,&c.
Soli: . ja Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equit*. j Buildings, George St., Sydney.
IJU.J
W SITORS TO SYDNEY.
tzhzhi
PITT & HUNTER STS.
THIS HOTEL is situated in the highest
and best position of Sydney, close to the
Botanical Gardens, -Government House,
Circular Quay (the landing-place of all large
Ocean Mail Steamers), near principal Clubs,
Theatres, and within two minutes’ w ilk of
lt is most elegantly furnished
throughout; Sanitary Arrangements are of
the very latest. Electrically lighted through-
out, and elevators to every floor.
Smoking, Commercial Rooms,
and Ladies’ Drawing Rooms,
and Library, &c.
TARIFF
BACK ROOMS - - - from £2 2s. Weekly
FRONT ROOMS - - from £3 3s. Weekly
JAfIES JACKSON, Proprietor (Late Western Australia and Queensland).
ROBERTS' HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall and Post Office,
and within a stone’s throw of all the Theatres. • ~
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2.30; DINNER, 5.30 till 7.30
Special Feature-RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
HOTEL ENTRANCE = MARKET STREET. SYDNEY
THE,a
First Section of 10,000 Acres
TABRAGALBA
«— - __ /« Dairy Farms of
ESTATE sar 79^500^
Situated on tlic ALBERT RIVER, Queensland, 45 miles from Brisbane by Rail
and within 4£ miles of Beaudesert Railway Station and 2 Butter Factories.
To toe So/</ toy Auction at BEAUDESERT
Easter Saturday, April 22nd,
1905, at 3 o’clock.
Tcbragalba has been famed for 50 years as the choicest Cattle Station in the
Bogan anti Albeit District.
“Tabragalha fats always top the Brisbane market" (Moreheads Ltd., letter of
27 i1l Jiiniiiiri /. 11)05.)
All lb i Dairy Farms will have a good percentage of the richest alluvial
lucerne loti (formerly cedar scrubs) and all will front permanent running water.
Tabragalba Settlers can always visit Brisbane and return same day.
The TtRiVl3 arc attractive 2s. in the £ down, Is. in the £ first and
s com! years. Is. 2_}d. in third and fourth years, and so on with interest at only Four
anJ-a-Ha'f cent, and Three months allowed for Fencing free of Interest
The Taoragalba Rainfall averages for past 16 years 43| ins., or llOf wet
days per annum.
«n-»* tsj 1 V SITT? Ko Compulsory Residence; No Survey Fees; No Pests; Mild
iC , Ui.f. I noi c Winter; only 16 miles from Sea Coast. Liberal options
Southern Dairymen this is your chance to get splendid land ata low price, close
to one of the most progressive cities in Australasia, with grand soil, climate and rain-
fall, and where.B or 10 cuttings of lucerne and 3 crops of maize per annum are frequent
and where Dairying is going ahead rapidly.
Write for Illustrated Plans to
Isles, Love & Co,
or to our Local Agents •
Auctioneers,
Brisbane,
addresses
£
EC
UT
BY
lluminatinc Artist"
NSOM
O^J
Robert' 6
Evo
Sr-ReeT
w THE NECESSITY 1
I OF
brushing the teeth morning and evening I
becomes a pleasure if you use
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder
«. with its delicate perfume and agreeable taste. ■
It preserves the teeth by thorough
and antiseptic cleansing, and also
gives them the requisite polish
without injuring the enamel.
Calvert’s Prickly-heat Soap
is very serviceable in hot climates as
a preventive of prickly-heat and other
irritation of the skin. It is pleasantly
perfumed and contains 10% Crystal
Carbolic.
These articles can be readily obtained from
most Chemists and Storekeepers.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
Exgulnd.
Insecticide
sdf
< a&
KiLLs
HU* 4
| ALL
J
I Ml
ATIOMS
SPSS
m
AsK
J*OF^
USES
XJ'SSJtU I—i
SPOONER’S
m
RS
SPOO
)NER
m
<
4
*
I AtINT LEATHER 600T5
KL
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
C'u bottles) od. and I*.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (ja
bottle), la.
Also Siamifacturera of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Lira.
Sold Bp all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops,, Saddlers, etc.
ASTHMA CURED
at home i Q STAY CURED. Causa removed.
Health restored. Attacks never retain. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma mid liar Fever Patients in
Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, and
America. By Mail only. Not sold in stores. AVrite for
Book 32C, FREE, postpaid. I)r. P. IThcqM Hayes’
Asthmatic Institute, Buffalo, N.Y. USA.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERATE Trow&te, Weakness*
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., sio matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain paokag-es. AVhen CURED we chars'®
you not more tlian TWENTY-FIYE smi.T..TMYaB
Write To-dav.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY*
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
THE BALLETgIEL
m
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Freo, '.
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Nov
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.Q., SYQNEVt


m. mm
HENNESSY’S
BRANDY.
Messrs. Hennessy guarantee all tlieir Brandies to be GENUINE GRAPE, and distilled from Wine only.
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. Gd per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards,
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted onappl aa
t ’ ou to The Managic.u.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
tlis
ATTACK
of
f
0
£<9
KEEPS THE SKlfi
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/“ A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Aganis -Elliott tiros., Sydney; Felton, Griinwa.de & Co., Melbourne.
r
ss
FOR INFANTS
AND
INVALIDS
One Quality—the BEST.
TRADE MARK
4>r~
gs
THE RICHEST'
IN
IN THE MARKET
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
** conie 8-s a boon and a blessing* to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEV PEN.
Sold by all Stations™ throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven !■- Oanieron Ltd is
separate y examined by ex-erienced hands
and any found defective are d ; .vrded.
BEWARE OF IMITATION 3. “03
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAn.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
r\N receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Set. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell,'Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, (ruaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In loot. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
r EDISON fa
monouLoeo I
RECORDS JJ
a
EOISON f!\
SOLD nOUtCED I
L RECORDS !J
For EDISON
PHONOGRAPHS
and RECORDS
WRITE TO . . .
Edison Phonograph Supply,
T. & C. BUILDINGS,
Swanston Street, Melbourne,
Next Town Hall.
Catalogues and Price Lists Post Pr.ee.
dfg
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAiPA’
POCKET'
KNIVES
c:ro tho
BEST.
Sold
by ALL
FIRST-CLAS3
Stores
in Australasia.
Mo. 8176}.
2 Glades *Pampa
Cocoa Handle • 1/6
Buffalo Handle • 2/-
Stag Handle » « ■
2/6
JUST PUBLISHED,
Price 21s.
sdf
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever issued in Australia.
g
WHOLESALE AGENTS l
-s Sydney & Brisbane.
MODERN SILOS „*>
RUBEROID ROOFING.
This illustration shows a Silo
at Newington Asylum, roofed
with RUBEROID ROOFING,
and insulated with HERCULES
BUILDING PAPER.
The measurements °f the Silo are : Height of eaves, 25ft.; Diameter,
lCft.; height of roof above eaves, 7ft. ; capacity, 100 tons. RUBEROID
ROOFING- was used because of its utility and durability. HERCULES
A 1 ER was used on account of its well-known acid and damp-resisting
qualities. The cost of the Silo, including all labor, was £3G 10s. The
carrier cost £5 10s. extra. Mr. Megarvey states that the Silo has given
every satisfaction.
AGENTS IN OTHER STATES—Melbourne: Brooks, Robinson & Co.,
Ltd.; Adelaide: A. W. Sandford & Co.; Fremantle: d. M.
Ferguson, Ltd.; Launceston: The Tasmanian Wool-
growers’ Agency Co., Ltd.; Hobart: William Crosby & Co.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20.—N0. 1310.
THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1905.
Prick 6d.
NEXT?
THE MONKEY : “NOW THAT MY HAND IS IN, SHALL I GO TO MANILA FOR SOME EAGLE SHOOTING, OR TO AUSTRALIA
FOR A KANGAROO DRIVE? BOTH VERY GOOD SPORT I SHOULD THINK.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
'* A ustralia for the A ustratinns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS',
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to •persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
. The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, ichether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A rticles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A mute urn in. Made and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct' reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central Neivs Agency, Capetoicn ;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 28 Riebcck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
11. It. Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
7%e
THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1905.
MUKDEN.
The rout of the Russians at Mukden is an
event ot history more important than any
since the fall of Constantinople. For nearly
two centuries the European hegemony has
been unquestioned. True, as late as 1795,
Napoleon is credited with having believed that
the power of the Grand Turk might be revived
and an Ottoman suzerainty of Europe secured.
But more than half a century before that
the doom of the Turk, who had been the
most serious foe to Christian Europe, was
sealed. From 1711 to 1905, whatever questions
of supremacy arose among the different
European powers, there was never any doubt as
to the superiority of the European race over the
Asiatic, the African, and the American. The
white man moved from one easy conquest to
another. In the new world, the remnants of the
Mexican and Peruvian Empires melted before the
Spanish colonists who had wrecked them in the
previous century. In Asia—lndia, China, Persia,
Japan were in turn humbled by the white man.
Africa was made his slave-farm, and in remote
Australia he entered into the heritage of a con-
tinent without the shock of a single battle. Now
the white-race supremacy is again challenged. By
a crowning victory over Russia at Mukden, Japan
suggests once more to Europe that fear may spring
from Asia.
* * * *
It is no new issue which is now raised. From
the times beyond which the memory of man does
not stretch, Asia lias repeatedly threatened
Europe. The struggle of the Persian empire to
smother the Greek republics is the first of the
invasions which has been accurately recorded by
historians; but probably it had been preceded
by many others. The waves of war that followed
were many; all have left their records. The
last was the Ottoman invasion in the 14th
century, which brought the banners of Asia
right up to the walls of Vienna, swept the
Levant of Christian ships, and threatened
even the Adriatic ; and which has left the Turk
still in the possession of Constantinople. But
by the beginning of the eighteenth century the
fear of the Turk gaining the mastery of Europe
had practically disappeared, and since then the
Europeans have treated the colored races as subject
to them, and their territories as liable to partition
whenever the method of division among the rival
white nations was agreed upon. It is neces-
sary now to face a new situation. The “balance
of power ” is no longer a matter of calculation
merely between the chancelleries of Europe;
Asia, victorious through her champion, Japan,
awakens to a new sense of power, and must in
future be reckoned with. A united Asia, not only
shaking off the yoke of. the white man’s settle-
ments on its own continent, but also threatening
Europe, springs up as among the natural develop-
ments of the near future. The European comity
of nations is indeed within measureable distance
of a day of equal anxiety to that on which a Pope
from a Roman tower prayed despairingly for the
victory of the white fleet, battling desperately in
the Adriatic with the Turk for the mastery of the
world. And in these days of the gun of precision,
prayer may not be so efficacious a factor in battle.
• • • *
The rights and the wrongs of the case between
Europe and Asia need not come into the question
which arises out of the present position. It is,
unfortunately, true that just as Asia was the
aggressor against Europe from 500 B.C. to 1400
AD. Europe has been the aggressor in Asia during
the last few centuries. England, by her wars
against and outrages on India, China, Japan and
Persia, has been the chief sinner, Russia the next
in extent; Portugal, Holland, France and Ger-
many have also been culprits. But only by a
great effort of the moral sense can any weight
be given to such considerations of ethics
when the issue is one between races. If
there is one clear principle amidst the welter
of wrongs and reprisals and deceits called
“international politics,” it is that the supremacy
of Europe must be maintained. “My country
right or wrong” may be rejected as a maxim of
conduct by many, but most will affirm without a
moment’s doubt, “The white race, right or wrong.”
And for this reason : that it is not possible to
imagine any abiding civilisation, or any just sys-
tem of government, which is not European.
Asiatic dynasties have at various times risen to
great magnificence and to splendid material pros-
perity, but have never yet evolved a stable and
democratic power, have never produced that type
of civilisation which has human Liberty and human-
Right as its pillars. The interests of the world,
it may be safely affirmed, are bound up with
Europe. Europe, and Europe alone, stands
for the evolution of the higher type of man.
To be a “good European” is therefore the
one proper fixed principle of national policy.
And it is an unfortunate fact that at this moment
England’s government is not a “good European.”
Without the help, not necessarily active but of
great moral value, of Britain, Japan would pro-
bably never have embarked on the war with
Russia. Having calculated the chances (well cal-
culated, it seems), Japan reckoned on being able
to deal its great antagonist a staggering blow in
the first campaign and making that, in a measure,
decisive. But without some shield against
interference, Japan well knew that the victory
which it would be permitted to win would be in-
decisive and barren. Europe would have seen to
that. However unfair and brutal such an action
may seem, considered from a view-point of fair-
play, there is not the slightest doubt that, but
for the British alliance, Japan would have been
obliged in case of going to war to accept the
dictation of an overwhelming European coalition
as to how far the war wag to be prosecuted, and as
to how little was to be its practical result. This
would have been, perhaps, “bad sport” but good
Europeanism. Britain has, however, stood in the
way and “ kept the ring clear” ; and the practical
outcome is that Japan now has come to a position
which gives it the overlordship of Asia, and makes
it more than possible that soon even the thought
of a European coalition will have no terrors, and
England will be asked to lead an evacuation of
Asia by European powers
* * * *
Curious is the set of circumstances by which
England and Russia have been, throughout several
centuries, so often on different sides when the war
of races was- being waged. The two empires
have for a very long time pursued the same
policy of aggression and expansion. More closely
related in blood than most imagine (Britain was
colonised by Norsemen in the sixth century,
Russia by Norseman in the ninth century) and
very similar in character, the Englishman and
the Russian have observed the usual rule in regard
to relatives following the same trade as rivals,
and have almost always disagreed. England has
wanted the Earth. Russia has had the same
modest ambition, and the two land-hungers have
constantly clashed, and have often led to
England being an enemy to Russia even when
that meant being an enemy to Europe. Very
early in history Russia came to blows with Asia.
It was trodden under the heel of the Tartar
horde from the 13th to the 15th centuries.
Scarcely had the princes of Moscow shaken off
the Tartar than they had to face the Turk, and from
the time of Peter the Great to 1736 Russia bore
the brunt of the Ottoman attack, sometimes being
forced into humiliating surrenders of territory.
Then the tide turned. But when the Russian
was in the full flood of victory and Constanti-
nople, his objective for centuries, seemed near at
hand, England interposed and insisted on main-
taining the Turk in Europe. Russia protested,
fought, was worsted, and then turned to subdue
Asia, in another quarter, across the Ural moun-
tains. Desire for a warm-water port, and ambi-
tion to assert the cause of Europe over that of
Asia, gave at least an excuse to this Russian policy
of aggressive Imperialism. But always in the path
stood England, protecting Constantinople, sealing
up the Black Sea, putting an embargo on the
Persian Gulf, and now, finally, keeping guard
while Japan orders Russia from Manchuria.
This anti-Russian, and, therefore, to an extent,
pro-Asiatic policy, has never been quite
unanimously accepted by the English
people. The policy of protecting the Turk
which led up to the Crimean war is now generally
admitted to have been mistaken, and already
there are some hints of doubt from representa-
tive Englishmen as to the wisdom of the present
Japanese alliance. These hints grew in strength
after the fall of Port Arthur. The battle of
Mukden, with the close-following news of China
stirring in military and naval matters, will give
them an added gravity, for what was only feared
vaguely before has now come to pass. Asia has
risen.
* * * *
It is to Australia that the position gives the
gravest cause for anxiety. Europe, for many
years to come, has only to fear a notice to quit
Asia, and if Germany and France were driven
from China, England from India, and Holland
from the East Indies, it would in no case threaten
the existence of the nation concerned, and would,
if that consideration can be given any weight, be
but proper j ustice. It would be long before Asiatic
power could so grow as to threaten the territory of
Europe, with the vast and thoroughly Russianised
Siberia standing as a buffer between. But Aus-
tralia is a lonely outpost of the white race on the
very borders of Asia. Our northernmost point
almost touches the islands of the Malays, close
kindred of the Japanese. Sydney, the chief city
of the Commonwealth, is within a few days’ steam
of China and Japan. Supposing Japan now to
organise Asia —as she has the power and prestige
and, probably, the will to do—there is not the
least doubt that Australia would have to bear the
brunt of a,n early attack. Possibly the American
garrison in the Philippines would be the first to
meet the Asiatic arms; Australia could hope for
no remoter place than the second.
* * * *
The position is such as to suggest alarm but not
despair. There is no call to question the capacity
of Australia to defend its territory against Asia,
which could not hope for some years to come to be
able to land more than 50,000 troops in any vital
part of Australia. But emphatically, if the pre-
sent state of drift and muddle in defence matters
continues, Australia will be in a hopeless position
when called upon to bear the Asiatic attack.
With prompt and effective organisation now—for
the training of all citizens to the use of arms, for
the establishment of the nucleus of an Australian
navy, and for the building of local ammunition
and gun factories—there would be no need to view
the future with hopelessness, even supposing the
attack found Australia with none hue her own re-
sources to rely upon. But to much longer neglect
those precautions, to the necessity of which the
battle of Mukden points so significantly, will be
tantamount to a surrender of this continent to
Asia.
THE “PRIMARY PRODUCER” AND HIS
MARKET.
The other morning the S.M. Herald cackled de-
risively at its own comparison of the value of the
Commonwealth’s “primary production” with
what the country would gain if it knocked off im-
porting, and made some few things for itself. It
pointed out that in 1903 the “primary products’*
of Australia were valued at £89,144,000, while the
oversea imports were, after all, valued at less than
£40,000,000. But there are some things it didn’t
point out. It didn’t point out that of the total
Australian exports valued at £77,618,263 in
1903, £22,398,329 was gold; also it omitted
to mention that there are difficulties in the
way of digging up the same gold twice over.
Certainly, new mines may be discovered; but it
took 40 years after Bendigo and Ballarat to dis-
cover the Westralian fields, and meantime the
output had dwindled from 15 millions to 4£ mil-
lions. It is just as certain as anything can be
that the process of dwindling from the present
17 millions will happen over again (already, after
these few years, the Great Boulder has to seek for
its metal at 200 ft.), but it isn’t by any means
certain that any more great discoveries will
happen. And what is the Herald going to
offer in place of the gold that won’t be any
longer there to dig, for the good reason
that it was dug yesterday ? And of the
foreign exports in 1903 another £14,001,599
was represented by wool. Presumably the Herald
expects Australia to carry a greater pojjulation ;
anyhow, it hasn’t publicly mentioned any scheme
for killing off the arriving infant. But how is it
going to increase the wool output in order to
maintain the increased population? Australia
did try to increase the wool output once, and Aus-
tralia's ghastliest failure, or thereabouts, resulted
from that attempt; for drought found the country
so overstocked that the flocks were reduced from
106,421,168 in 1891 to 55,371,220 in 1903.
Another £1,678,667 of the year’s exports was
represented by copper; and it is just as
difficult to get the same slug of copper
out of a mine twice as it is to find the
same nugget of gold twice. Coal stood for
another £1,053,903, but the best foreign markets
for Australian coal are being rapidly closed.
Last year there was the tremendous shrinkage of
662,399 tons in the foreign export of the mineral.
Another £776,949 of the exports was timber ; and
there is the same old difficulty about chopping the
same tree down twice.
It is, no doubt, a fact that Australia can show
bigger figures by digging up its gold, and its other
metals, and chopping down its trees, and eating
out its natural sheep-food by overstocking, than
by setting itself to the work of making its own
iron, and its own boots, and its blankets, and its
paints and oils. But it can show these big figures
simply because they represent not only its labor, but
its capital as well. The Westralian miner, with his
output of over £409 per man, may enormously
swell the exports ; he may seem to be producing
three times as much as the bootmaker ; but he only
does it by leaving so much less gold in the ground
for the future man to get out. And when the
gold is gone and there is left nothing but the tail-
ings ; when the tree is chopped down and there is
left nothing but a stump for Australia to bruise its
toe against; when the copper mines are as dead as
the Burra and Kapunda, which did great things
once ; when there are 10,000,000 people in Aus-
tralia instead of under 4,000,000, and the wool
exports have further shrunk, what then ? Also,
the longer we import things that we ought to
make, and the more of the population we conse-
quently force out to dig up the gold and cut down
the tree, the sooner will the end come ; and when
we want the raw products for the manufactures
that we shall then have to establish, we shall find
ourselves handicapped through having exported
the most easily accessible of them.
* * * *
In short, the figures on which the Foreign-
trader relies to prove that this country was
specially designed by Providence as a “primary
producer ” and nothing else, and that Australia’s
duty is to let the foreigner build the factory, are
altogether delusive. A third of the entire pro-
duction is the result of digging things up and
leaving nothing but a hole, and cutting things
down and leaving nothing but a stump. That
business must obviously end some day, and the
some day can’t be far distant. And when it does
end there won’t be merely the man who has been
digging up things and the other man who has been
chopping down things to provide for. At present
these men are among the best customers the Aus-
tralian agriculturist has. S. Australia has for
years past had in Broken Hill and the Westralian
goldfields its finest markets ; but some day it will
have to find another market—the day when
Broken Hill and Kalgoorlie will consist of nothing
but large holes in the ground, offering a precarious
existence to nothing but the goat that the last fos-
sicker abandoned when he left iu despair. Certainly
when he loses these markets noar home, there will
still be for the Australian farmer the foreign
market ; he can hump his wheat and his butter,
his eggs and his fruit, 12,000 or 15,000 miles, to
compete with people not half so far away. But
he will find out the difference then between a home
market and a foreign market. For the common
notion that even now the foreign market controls
his prices is less than half true. Two years ago
foreign prices for products were much the same as
usual; yet the Australian prices were from 50 to
130 par cent, higher than usual.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Privy Council.
In The Times Law Reports (vol. xxi., p. 149) there
appears a judgment which forcibly illustrates the
Privy Council’s knowledge of, and interest in,
that remote part of the Empire called Australia.
The case is The Commonwealth Portland Cement
Co. v. Wkbek, LoHMANNand Co.', and the point at
issue was whether the defendants were liable to
the plaintiffs for loss the latter had suffered
through having been compelled to pay customs
duties on goods imported in defendant’s ship,
which might have been, but were not, landed
before 4 o’clock in the afternoon of October 8, 1901,
the date when the customs tariff came into opera-
tion. Lord Lindley, one of the ablest members
of the Judicial Committee, delivered the judg-
ment, and, in the course of it, he used these
words :
It was further proved that it had been for some time
common knowledge in Sydney that the Government of
New South Wales was contemplating the publication of
an ordinance bringing into operation in New South Wales
the Customs Act 1901, passed on Oct. 3 by the Common-
wealth Parliament of Australia. Such an ordinance was,
in fact, published in the afternoon of Oct. Bth. Those
being the admitted facts . . . &c.
Presumably, the people who “admitted” these
extraordinary facts were the learned counsel
engaged in the case, of whom there were four.
There were also four members of the Privy Council
present at the hearing, but among the whole eight
there doesn’t appear to have been one who was
aware—
(l) That Commonwealth Acts are not brought into
force in a State by an ordinance of the State Government.
(2) That there is a difference between the Customs Act
of 1901 (which was assented to on 3rd Oct., 1901, but
which had nothing to do with this case) and the Customs
Tariff, which only operated from Bth Oct., 1901, by virtue
of a resolution of the House of Representatives.
(3) That the Customs Tariff did not become law until
16th Sept., 1902.
(4) That what happened on the Bth Oct., 1901, was the
introduction of the tariff into the House of Represen-
tatives.
Mistakes 2,3, and 4, though bad enough, might
be forgiven. But mistake lis a staggerer ; and if
the Privy Council, and the barristers who practise
before it, don’t really know enough about Aus-
tralian political institutions to save them from
such an error, let us put up statues to everyone
who had anything to do with making the High
Court a final court of appeal in Constitutional
cases. Of course, the mistake didn’t affect the
judgment in this particular case; but a court
which is capable of making it, need not be much
surprised if the people of Australia entertain a
modest preference for their own High Court.
Wanted, a High Commissioner.
S.A. Agent-General Jenkins begins to be use-
ful as a horrid example from the very first day of
his appointment. Speaking at Adelaide the other
day, he referred to the problem of the Northern
Territory, and expressed himself in favor of its
development by colored labor. There is no doubt
that, as Agent-General for S.A. in London,
Mr. Jenkins will hold and will stress the same
views. There is very little hope, too, that the
people in London will understand how very
little Mr. Jenkins matters, how little, indeed,
any State official matters in what is purely
within the sphere of Federal activity. Even
the British Privy Council does not yet under-
stand the relations of Federal and State authority
in Australia. And the British investor, the
British shark and the ordinary British citizen
can, therefore, be hardly expected to have such a
knowledge of the distinction between the two as
to enable them to grasp the absolute unimpor-
tance of Mr. Jenkins, and even of the Govern-
ment he represents, when a question arises of
bringing colored labor into Australia. From that
ignorance unfortunate results might follow.
Taking Jenkins as representing South Australian
opinion, and as having the controlling voice in
regard to the Northern Territory, persons might be
misled into making proposals or arrangements,
which the Commonwealth would have to veto after-
wards, at the price of much unpleasantness and
perhaps of some risk. It is possible, for instance,
to imagine British exploiters, acting on Mr. Jen-
kins’ declarations, entering into negotiations with
the Japanese or with the Indian Government in
regard to the populating of the Northern Terri-
tory, and for such negotiations to proceed to a
point at which their rupture would be a matter of
difficulty, before the Federal authority ever knew
of what was proceeding. This once more stresses
the fact that the Commonwealth must have its
own representative in London to voice Australian
interests and to put the State agents-general in
their proper places as butter-agents and wine-
samplers. Until such a representative is chosen
there will always be grave danger of diplomatic
embarrassments arising in London through the
The Lords of Calico.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ What is the Government, what is the Federal Parlia-
ment, but the representatives of the mercantile com
munity?”—Mr. Wm. M'Millan.
We are the Lords of Calico,
For us the seasons ebb and flow ;
Princes of Buttons, Beads, and Braid,
For us the universe was made !
There is no good in all the Earth,
But in a warehouse has its birth ;
For what is mortal man beside
Our newest dress-goods, 3ft. wide ?
Or can a human mind be set
Against a piece of flannelette ?
. Our China silks, at two-and-ten —
Beside them, what are trivial men ?
Put brains and virtue in the scale,
Forsooth, against a warehouse b ile
Or venture human worth to prize
Before imported merchandise !
Set up a Huxley, dreaming fool,
Against a skein of mending wool!
Or put a Spencer or a Mill
Against a dozen Turkey-twill!
The Pillars of the Earth are shops
That deal in Manchesters and Slops ;
The first department of a State
Sells Cashmere hose at one-and-eight.
In all the things the Lord hath made
There is no merit out of Trade,
The source whence all our blessings flow—
Bow down, and worship Calico !
S.H.P.


failures or the follies of the State agents. When
Mr. Jenkins is let loose on London with a
Picturesque Atlas tale of how the Northern
Territory is pining for Asiatic labor, there should
be a Federal representative on the spot to point
out how wrong Mr. Jenkins is, and how very
little it matters, so far as Australia is concerned,
what Mr. Jenkins advocates.
*
The High Court.
The chief political errors in Australia have always
been those of extravagance and thriftlessness. As
a natural result, “economy ’ is always a good
word for the political pretender to conjure with ;
and is seized upon most often by the charlatan as. a
cloak for some other motive. “Ecounny” so
easily lends itself to specious misrepresent ition.
All the complex details of modern government
must be mistered before it is possible to declare
on a point of “economy ’ with any certainty. To
reduce expenditure is not necessarily to economise,
though that impression is unfortunately common.
The “saving” by cutting down wages or neglecting
maintenance expenses mvy lead to inefficiency
and deterioration causing a great ultimate loss.
And, even when the voter isedueated up to the point
at which he perceives that the m >ney “ saved ” by
not painting an iron bridge, or bv driving away
high talent from the public service by making
war on high salaries, is really money borrowed
at a most usurious rate of interest, the whole
problem of economy has not been grasped. There
are certain more subtle and elusive, but still
iimportant, considerations to which their due
weight must be given. The business man who
haggles over an item of expense which
in the strictest interpretation of business might
not seem to justify itself, but retrenching which
takes something from the good repute and dignity
of his undertaking, some day tin Is tli it he lias been
foolish rather than economical ; an 1 so with
nations. The Reid Cabinet to-day, in aiming a
shrewd blow at the Australian High Court, does
not allege memories of old political animosities,
does not hint at the dissatisfaction with which the
remnant of the anti-Federalists views the work
which that court is doing towards consolidating
and strengthening the Federation. It pretends
to act in the good cause of economy. The High
Court, in carrying out the duties with which the
Federation entrusted it, his incurred expenses
which this thrifty C ibinet deplores, and it proposes
to save a thousand or two a year by stripping
the court of some of its dignities and powers, and
forcing upon it residence in Melbourne. That
was the intention originally announce.l by the
Attorney-General, Mr. WYMON. It his since been
watered down a little, owing to the fears aroused
in Mr. Reid’s mind by the protests of the Sydney
provincialists, who did not so much object to the
High Court being limited, as to its being limited
to Melbourne, instead of to Sydney. Fortunately
the Reid Cabinet can only threaten. To the
Legislature alone is given the power to act. The
Constitution makes the High Court a sole court of
appeal in matters affecting the Commonwealth
Constitution, an alternative court of appeal with
the British Privy Council from all decisions of an
Australian Full Court or Equity Court, and
a court of original jurisdiction in certain cases
—such as those between a citizen and the
Commonwealth, between a citizen of one State and
the Government of another State, or between two
States. The Judioature Act not only empowers
but in a measure enjoins the High Court to set up
registries for causes in each of the State capitals,
and to hold sittings for the trial of causes where
those registries exist. It is useless for an anti-
Federal Cabinet to question the authority of the
Constitution and of that Act, and to seek'to argue
that the High Court as a Court of Appeal is on the
same basis as the English Privy Council and should
sit in one city alone. The Cabinet certainly may,
until Parliament can meet and inflict punishment
for such action, cause a squalid scandal by refusing
to pay the legitimate and proper expenses
of the High Court in travelling from one
State to another. But such action, if the
temper of the judicature is at all as sturdy
as the traditions of Australian Judges justify the
people in expecting, will not be allowed to thwart
the intention of the Constitution and of the Legis-
lature. The High Court, we trust, will continue
to do its duty, and sit in each State as occasion
calls, and trust to Parliament to make redress for
any injurious action by a hostile and provincial-
minded Cabinet. Its position is not the same as
that of a State Supreme Court, whose assize
sittings are under the control of the Crown, and
whose circuits can be, therefore, varied by Cabinet
action. It has definite powers to guard the
Federation against any infringement of the Con-
stitution by the Cabinet, or even, in the
last resort, by Parliament. It can refuse to obey
not only an Order-in-Council, but even an Act
of Parliament which infringes the Constitution.
The power of the Court is thus sufficient to pro-
tect it against the “bossing” of any accidental
lt is regrettable that, on the other
point on which the High Court and the Cabinet
have come into conflict, the right is not so plainly
with the Court. Australians generally would
have welcomed a Republican austerity on the part
of the Court at its inception—a shedding of the
tom-foolery of wigs, and the ostentation of tip-
staffs. And yet, yielding to no one in dislike for
show-officials, The Bulletin is not prepared to
suggest that the High Court should dispense with
its staff at the dictation of the Cabinet. Probably
the tip-staffs and associates have some useful pur-
pose in addition to their useless one of “ giving dig-
nity” to acourt which needs nosuch extraneous aids.
Certainly such a hard-worked court must have
some personal attendants. If any of them are
merely ornamental —which is probable—we hope
that the High Court will take a favorable oppor-
tunity to dispense with them. But on the ques-
tion of its circuits the court should be firm. It is
the first shock of provincialism against the chief
citadel of Federalism, and as such must be resisted.
o-
The Barmaid.
There came into the office with him a dank, aged
odor, which was at one with his time-beaten face,
furrowed as though it had been trampled over by
all the Gadarene swine. When he spoke of hell-
fire (which was frequently) a baleful, carbuncle-like
light came into his sunken eyes, and he looked
almost happy. He snarled rather than spoke
These barmaids, children of the Devil, painted Jeze-
bels, woe to them ! They snare souls to destruction, and
are as gins to the feet of the sinner. What is this talk of
the weak-minded as to what shall become of them ? Cast
them to the fire. If thy eye offends, pluck it out. What
matters what shall befall them? It is not for them that
thought should be taken. Their offence is in administer-
ing to the carnal and the ungodly, making glad the path
of the sinner, which should be thorny, and bringing joy
to this life, which should be of repentance. The world is
a valley of sorrow, through which we pass to the Beyond
—the wicked to hell-fire and torment eternal, the just to
the bosom of Abraiiam. It should be a place of moaning
and lamentation for our sins. The sound of groaning
should go up continually to the Throne : all else is wicked
and perverse.
Yea, root out utterly the barmaid and those other
carnal and wicked creatures, the serving-women of the
tea-shops, who deck themselves out to snare the eye and
take the thought from Grace ; and the play-actresses,
whose heathen posturings and vain adornments are a joy
to the'unrighteous and a very grave offence. Aye, truly
also, the painted women of society baring their bosoms
and decking themselves in the trappings of temptation
for the dance, to gladden the eyes of the worldly. Extir-
pate them. Cast them to the fire which is an image of
the Fire Everlasting ; their moaning will be of sweet
savor to
But here an interruption came, a cheerful femi-
nine poet tripping in “ with a little bit of verse,”
and the gentlem m broke off from his anger and
left abruptly. It almost seemed as if he had been
exorcised, so sudden was his going. Yet Ihus
Bulletin would have gladly had further conver-
sation with him. His views on barmaid abolition
were the only consistent one? met with so far.
He had given to the office-boy Knox as his name.
Perhaps this will meet his eye, and he will be
good enough to call again.
A Question of Insolence.
Last week, at the invitation of the British Em-
pire League, several people visited a hall in
Elizaheth-street, Sydney, to hear a Mr. Bignold
and a Mr. Kniubs scoff and sneer at the national
aspirations of Australia. “Mr. Bignold,” says
the press report, “impressed upon his audience
the necessity of looking at Imperial matters from
a British and not an Australian standpoint. Aus-
tralia had started a Monroe Doctrine. A Monroe
Doctrine was all right for the United States, with
70,000,000 of people. But when a country like
Australia, with no population to speak of,
talked of a Monroe Doctrine it was absurd.”
Then G. 11. Kniubs spoke of the “insolent
attitude” of Australia to foreign powers. “It
was absurd of Australia to think she was able to
hold such a huge territory with a population of
5,500,090.” (fs this Mr. Knibbs of the N.S.W.
Education Department? If so, why is he allowed
to air his stupid politics in public while others
are forbidden to do so?) This kind of
argument from population figures is essentially
fallacious Else it would have to be admitted that
Switzerland with its small population has no right
to be free, and that Russia is the only European
country which is not insolent in being independent.
But, taking the argument for what it is worth,
North America 130 years ago had a total popula-
tion of just about half the present population
of Australia—when Benjamin Franklin and
Thomas Jefferson were appointed chief
members of a popularly elected committee to
draft the famous Declaration of Independence.
Of this Federation James Monroe was fifth Pre-
sident and he was the author of “The Monroe
Doctrine,” enunciated in a message to Congress,
when the population of the United States was a
million less than the present population of Aus-
tralia. These facts may have little direct signifi-
cance. They are not printed now as a reason why
Australia should go and do likewise, only as an
illustration of the fact that Messrs. Bignold and
Knibbs presumed a great deal on the ignorance of
the British Empire League. And, seemingly,
they presumed successfully, for there is no record of
any interruption or dissent.
+
The Little Australian.
No doubt the infant mortality of Australia
seems high when it stands alone, but when
put into comparison with that of other
countries our effective birth-rate assumes credit-
able proportions. Apart from such almost non-
preventible causes of death as heat and bad water,
the chief sources of infantile mortality in the
Commonwealth are doubtless poverty and parental
ignorance, as manifested in the enteritis, debility,
and atrophy which carry off some two-fifths in
every 10,000 deaths. But, taking the figures sup-
plied by Mr. M‘Lean, the Government statist of
Victoria, it will be seen that Australian infantile
mortality is the lowest in the world, and is but a
little over one-third of that of European States
whose birth-rate is the civilised world’s highest.
As lives, not mere births, are the thing needful,
our case is not so evil as the Birth-rate Commis-
sion endeavored to make out. The number of
survivors at the age of five out of every 1000
children born are :—■
Survi- Survi-
Countries. vors. Countries. vors.
Maoriland .. .. 880 Belgium .. .. 756
New South Wales .. 850 Denmark .. .. 755
Victoria .. .. 844 France 751
Norway .. ~ 833 Switzerland .. .. 748
Ireland .. .. 837 Italy .. • .. 632
Sweden .. .. 783 Austria .. .. 614
Scotland .. .. 780 Hungary .. ..-'SOS
England and Wales .. 702 Spain 571
Obviously the greater the number of'* effective
births, the lower the total aggregate of births—
due, of course, to the consequent wider intervals
between the periods of conception. The Countries
whose birth-rates head the list, hold also, almost
without exception, the records for infantile death-
rates. In proof whereof, take the following
figures (calculated to the 1000 of the population):
Natural in-
crease per
Country. Birth Death Surviving 1000 of
Rate. Rate. stli Year. Population.
Hungary .. 427 32‘3 23'6 10'4
Austria .. 37'!) 28'6 22'8 9’3
Prussia .. 36’5 23 7 25'0 13'8
Spain 35-5 303 5“2
U. Kingdom 30'9 T'.VO 22-2 11-9
Sweden .. 28’6 17'0 217 11-6
Australia .. 25‘4 1273 23‘3 14‘8
It will be seen that, although Australia has a
lower birthrate than any European country, save
France (22’0), her infantile mortality is the lowest
and her natural increase is the highest of all
of which records have beenjkept. It is not neces-
sary to labor the point—there are the figures.
After all, the statist, the politician and the doctor
have very little to make a fuss about. At the
same time, there is no doubt our infantile death-
roll would be sensibly reduced if parental igno-
rance were lessened.
♦
The Finances of Tasmania.
It turns out that the comforting paper presented
to the Premiers’ Conference on the State Debts
question, showing that “only I’oB per cent, of
the Australian debt compares with the National
Debt of the United Kingdom,” was compiled by
the Government Statist of Tasmania; and the
Flyspeck papers are accordingly comforted beyond
the ordinary. “ Where, then,” demands the
Launceston Examiner, “ is the sense of making
these sweeping charges about Australian debt,
when two-thirds of it in railways costs the people
comparatively nothing? Is it not folly to put
these items side by side with the English National
Debt, from which there is little or no return?”
Well, let Tasmania look, at her own beautiful
position. For last year (Coghlan’s statistics,
1904) the interest charge on the Tasmanian
public debt was £341,627. The gross earnings of
the public works and services on which loan
money has been spent amounted to £258,579.
If, therefore, Tasmania had got its railway-coal
for nothing, and had paid its servants nothing
and given them permission to buy their own
uniforms—if, in snort, it had handed over to
Cohen the whole of the gross earnings of all these
“reproductive undertakings” that “cost the
people comparatively nothing,” it would have
been able to pay 15s. in the £ of the State’s
interest bill. After working expenses were
paid, there actually remained £92,228 to
pay Cohen with; the other £249,399 had to
come out of taxation. And the Examiner says it
“ costs the people comparatively nothing ” ! What
the public debt did actually cost the people of
Tasmania in this one prosperous year was £1 7s. 9d.
per head ; .that was tlie amount by which the
earnings from all the railways and other works
into which loan money has been poured had to
be subsidised from tixes in order to meet Cohen’s
annual' claim. No other country in the whole
world, with the doubtful exception of Queensland,
shows such appalling figures. In spite of all that'
unpr > luctive British war debt, of which the fatuous
Examiner, and the almost equally fatuous statis-
tician, talk, the gross interest-charge in the
United Kingdom amounts to only 13s. 7d. per head.
Nor does the whole of even that 13s. 7d. have
to come out of taxes; for the British Government
holds, at present market value, about £28,000,000
of highly pr > itable Sue/. 0 uial stock, representing
a portion of the debt. Yet, even if the whole 13s.
7d. were payable out of taxes, the Englishman
would still not nay half as much as the Tasmanian
has to pay in taxes to make up the interest bill.
And there is worse even than that. What
Britain has spent on war it has spent. The
powder that was burned last year is burned,
and that is an end of the matter.
It is costing nothing more now. But Tasmania
has spent almost a third of its total of £8,994,006 on
roads and bridges and buildings and similar works
which are not only not returning any revenue, but
are costing somethin" considerable every year to
inaint tin. Much of tne other two-thirds has been
spent on railways which do not pay working ex-
penses. The British debt would be infinitely more
burdensome if it were necessary every year to feed
the cannon that became obsolete 20 years ago.
Yet that is just the position of Tasmania with
regard to much of its debt. And even without
that, it would be absolutely the heaviest debt in
the world, judged by the amount of tax which
has to be levied from the people to pay the
interest.
«
Died at Monte Carlo last week the Marquis of
Anglesey, the degenerate, grandson of a fine sol-
dier. The unhappy fool found relief from himself
only in decking his body like that of a seraglio
favorite—in wonderful jewels and fabrics. Bank-
ruptcy tore from him his gauds, and their loss
broke his heart. Anglesey was, unhappily, not
a solitary freak. Only in degree did he differ
from a thousand and one youths of the rich classes
in England, the poor creatures whose existence
points a terrible warning of national decadence.
The titles of nobility won by Englishmen on
battlefields and by council-table are flaunted to-day,
in a disquietingly large number of cases, by pallid
weaklings, skirt-dancing men, and poor slaves
of skirt-dancing women. The fortunes, wrested
from the seas by sturdy old pirates or won by
manufacturing enterprise, are being dissipated in
hundreds of cases by futile fellows without the writ
enough to justify their weaning. Wherefore, to
an increasing extent yearly, England is bestraddled
by foreigners; her finance, her press, her court,
her Parliament slips into the hands of
Her “rocky shores still beat back the envious
siege of watery Neptune,” but have no rampart
against the god whose trident carries the three
balls of Lombardy. Without any effective native-
born army, without an agricultural population, its
social life dominated by foreign plutocrats, its
aristocracy largely devoting itself to-satin waist-
coats, skirt-dancing and bridge, England begins to
present all the conditions which presaged the fall
of the Roman Empire.
« -
Dr. Delany, Coadjutor-Bishop of Tasmania, at
Zeehan, Feb. 8, to the Workers’ Political League :
Sons of toil, make up your minds to it that the
press, in its might, will be against you. It is not that the
men of brains on the press are out of sympathy with
many, if an 3', of your ideals. The press will reckon on
the side of Capital, because its existence depends upon
Capital. You are not amongst its shareholders, its direc-
tors. You cannot afford to furnish it with fat advertise-
ments. Its anon.vmitv, its impaling prestige, the ability
which Capital places at its..cflinmand, lend its utterances
an influence which -overwhelms the individual, and
renders opposition fruitless, except in one or other of two
ways, either through corresponding financial power, or
through organised numbers. Even in so organising,
what effective opposition can be offered by the press?
It will ignore your meetings, or damn them by its reports.
Your speakers, no matter how cogently they nuiy have
put your case, will not he able to reach more than a few
hundred auditors; whereas the opposite case, through
the hospitality of the columns of the daily paper, lies
persuasively before tens of thousands. Not alone will
this bo3'Cott affect your cause, hut able disputants in the
pay of the press will set your contention in such an
unfavorable light that the general reader, out of sheer
repetition, will come to think you must be mistaken, if
not even worse. All this you must face in organising for
the polls ; but that is your one chance, if you are to tell
in public life.
The notion that education is a sort of explosive,
dangerous to leave lying around, haunts the Argus,
which, the other day, contended :
It ought not to be possible for anyone to write B.A. or
B.Sc., still less M.B. or 8.C.E., after his name unless he
has spent the whole of his time and strength, during the
years prescribed, in the prosecution of the necessary
studies. ... It is the duty of the University to maintain
the standard of its degrees, and not to accommodate it to
the convenience of those who are not, for whatever reason,
in a position to afford the time and energy requisite for
the reaching of adequate efficiency.
The Argus was discussing the just-inaugurated
courses of evening lectures, and was fearful for the
prerogatives of its pure merinoes who can devote
“ the whole of their time and strength ” to a Uni-
versity career. The half-lie style of the second
paragraph quoted is, unhappily, becoming charac-
teristic of the Argus. It is possible “to maintain
the standard ” of the various courses, and still
to allow clever students, who are “unable to devote
the whole of their time,” an opportunity of taking
their degrees. So far, nothing whatever has been
said about interfering with the standard of exam-
inations, and the Argus’ insinuation is simply a
bogey of the old lady’s own creation. There are
two aspects of the question that the Argus has
overlooked. The University is so heavily subsi-
dised from the national treasury as to be a public
institution. As the Argus itself printed a few
days ago, every degree it confers costs the State
£lOO. It is, therefore, in the highest degree un-
fair to try and restrict its advantages to one
favored class. Again, the students that the Argus
wants to see barred from degrees—the young men
who attend the evening courses—are necessarily
enterprising and energetic, and likely to be a
credit to any profession they take up.
+-
From an Australian who has come back
Canada is not the country it is cracked up to be. About
nine months ago, led astray by glowing reports I now
know to be mostly lies, I left S3’dney and went over
there. Soon discovered, however, that it is no place for
an Australian. Climate is awful. For six months in
every year the thermometer seldom climbs above 35 below
zero. In the winter, business is practically suspended.
Out-door occupation of any sort is impossible. The far-
mers hibernate like snakes. The commercial community
goes about clad in furs and racoon skins, their very ears
muffled against the frost-bite. Struck Quebec, and found
all business in T*¥s hands of French Canadians, who hate
the English like poison. No chance of a billet. Went
thence to Montreal, and g-ot a job in* a big store as
manager of a department, salary 12dols. a week.
Tlie shop-walkers and most of the hands, however,
were French, and they made my life a little
hell. per cent, of the population French.
One .year the city is by arrangement governed by
French aldermen, and the next by English. Consequence,
chaos. Half the .Judges French ; half English. Woe
betide an Engl shman haled before a French Judge.
Language most in use, a degenerate French patois. No
boarding-houses in the city. Had to hire a room, and
meal out at rubbishy restaurants. Only at an hotel is a
decent feed obtainable, and they charge 3s. fora small
grilled steak. No social life in the place except among
the rich. In six months I never ate at a private table.
The working day for the laboring and commercial classes
is 10 hours. I had to work an average of 12. No unions,
no Arbitration Act, no labor laws. Vice rampant.
Canada only welcomes agricultural immigrants, to whom
it gives 60 acres o' land, which, though marvellously
fertile, is ice bound half the year. Farm hands are paid
40dol. a;mouth in the summer, but have to idle all winter
and keep themselves on what they have saved—or starve.
There is no opening- for clerks or mechanics. But if there
was, a man is better off with 80s. a week in Australia
than with much more in Canada. Nothing could tempt
me to leave this country again. By comparison with
Canada, Australia is a paradise.
♦
“R.A.K.” on the Rhodes’ scholars (with much
truth, though it is to he said, on the other side,
that often strong-minded Australians going to
England come back more Australian than before):
Once more the annual drafting out of the various
Rhodes scholarship winners has been completed in the
Commonwealth. Our choicest morsels of brain and talent
have been shipped to England to help work out a deep-
laid scheme of Imperialism, whereby worn-out Britain’s
Oxford is rejuvenated with the pick of the various
“ colonies’ ” fresh young blood. It’s about time Australia,
at any rate, realised the way she is being bled by a de-
funct capitalist’s will.
The Commonwealth is trying to build up a white-man
nation, on this immense continent, in this lonely out-
post. How can it spare a single one of these .young men ?
What’s the use of aspiring to national aims when a yearly
tribute from our best and cleverest (often those who
have sprung from the lowest rung, who have risen to the
top through sheer persistence and merit, not on their
parents’ brass or influence) has to be paid, and they
become lost to their mother country for ever?
They are never likely to come back to us, these brilliant
young sons that we let go without a murmur or a strug-
gle. Curses on the bandit capitalist’s bequest, with its
deep-hidden purpose and far-reaching power ! Democratic
Australia should put its foot down vigorously, and
jealously refuse to give up the brains that should go to the
making of Prime Ministers, Judges, politicians, and
builders of the nation generally. The Rhodes scheme
taps the life-sap of the country.
4,
“ The Mussel ” alleges :
Seniority must, I know, be a factor in promotions in
Govt, departments ; but it can be overdone. Recently an
officer was promoted from a highly teehnical branch in
the Vic. Crown Law Department to a high position
in the Ports arid Harbors—and he couldn’t even swim.
Now, I know that it is impossible to fill this highly
technical man’s place; he had spent half his life-
time specialising a certain class - of work, and
yet, because he is senior to others, he starts
out on a new line of which he knows absolutely nothing,
and will be retired about the time he gets a grip of his
new work (if he takes the trouble to g-o that far). Also,
some time ago a tailor in one of the lunatic asylums
became entitled, through seniority, to the position of
skipper of a “ snagging ” boat on a Gippsland river. This
tailor’s nautical education was wholly derived from
' watching rowing- boats going up and down the Yarra.
The consequence was, when he took charge of the snagging
boat, he gave an order to “ tack and hem-stitch on the
left side,” and the bewildered crew wrecked him on
the bank —just ten minutes after taking charge. The boat
was always getting corns on. its side through continual
friction with the bank ; and the selectors complained about
him knocking lumps off their allotments. Then came a
vacancy in a still higher division of the Service, and, be-
cause of seniority, the Lunatic Asylum tailor was given
a position in the Mines and Agriculture Department.
He is still there ; but I expect to find him in the Health
Department soon.
♦ ; .
Mr. Lonsdale, M.H.R., speaking at Glen Innes
on the occasion of the recent visit of the State
Premier to New England, trotted out the same
wearv, old, broken-down argument against the
N.S.W. Arbitration Act, that it cannot stop
strikes or settle disputes. Politicians who argue
in this strain should be sent back to an infants’
school for stupidity, or punished for plain false-
hood. The Act so far has stopped most of the threat-
ened strikes. Without it, instead of a couple of
paltry strikes which have taken place at Newcastle
during the past three years, there would certainly
have been many serious disturbances. In each of
the cases in which comparatively small bodies of
men broke away from the restraints of the Act,
they did so as irresponsible individuals, not alone
unsanctioned by, but against the wishes of the
unions ; and in each case that fact led to prompt
collapse of the strike. It is as foolish to pro-
nounce the Arbitration Act a failure because its
provisions are, in isolated cases, disregarded, as to
say that our whole criminal code is of no avail,
because it has not put an end to all crime, or that
education is a failure because there are some men
like Mr. Lonsdale.
♦
This, from ’Frisco, sounds like the deep-felt cry
of a genuine patriot—the sort of Australian Aus-
tralia wants :
From British Oolumbia to lower California I have met
many “ kangaroos,” doomed, like myself, to indefinite
exile in a foreign land, merely through the inhuman and
suicidal mock-Protectionist polic.y of their homeland. (I
say inhuman because th - Australian tariff is compelling
thousands of the most vigorous in our young country to
seek fresh fields.) These exiles (myself included) bitterly
ask, “ When will our legislators cease their bickerings,
cease puling over measures that are of no direct benefit to
the country, and do something that will help local indus-
tries to spring up?” The American people are not one
whit more intellig-ent than the Australian, but they are
10 times more alert, and it would rting their patriotism to
see ship after ship, laden with cheap foreign goods,
arriving at their shores. But the majority of Aus-
tralians view those sights with the utmost indifference.
G. H. Reid and some of his fool disciples should visit
Maoriland, Western Canada and America, and see and talk
with some of the thousands of young and old Australians
who have been forced to leave their own country. Their
eyes would be opened. Meanwhile, nearly all of us exiles
are in the slough of despond ; yet sometimes cheered by
the thought that surely Australia’s eyes must open some
day.
4
Despite the efforts of the anti-Federalists, legal
reform in Australia will assuredly proceed on
the lines of increasing rather than diminishing
the scope of the Federal High Court. At present
an appeal to it may be made direct from the
Equity Court. On the Common Law side valu-
able time has still to be spent and oppressive
costs incurred in appealing to the Eull Coutt
before having resource to the High Court. There
is nothing whatever to justify this compulsory
employment of the Full Court on the path to
appeal. The wealthy litigant who unsuccessfully
appeals from one Judge to the Full Court of his
State will go to the High Court as a matter of
course, anti the poor litigant as a matter of
necessity, neither feeling that he has reached
finality till he goes there. The High Court is the
natural court of appeal from State Supreme Court
decisions, whether they be Common Law, Arbi-
tration, Bankruptcy, Equity, or what not, and by
allowing appeals to go directly from a single
Judge in any court, as they now do from a single


The mutual [ife Insurance Co. of fleui york
RICHARD A. McCURDY, President.
STATEMENT for YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1904
(as received by cable).
During the year 1904 the New Insurance issued and paid for (excluding restorations and
changes) amounted to £47,131,000, showing an INCREASE of £3,440,000 over the,
previous year. > • ..
x HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA
Company’s Building, Martin Place and Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD RENNIE, General Manager.
Judge in Equity, a natural and intelligible se-
quence of legal procedure would be established.
This procedure would not only profit the parties
to an appeal, but be an all-round advantage to
the community, as a great portion of the time of
the Supreme Court Judges—at present over-
worked—would be saved.
SUNDRY SHOWS-
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Orchid.”
Theatre Royal “ Woman and Wine.”
Lyceum “ Belle of New York.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.: “ Little Tich.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Duke of Killiecrankie.”
„ _ r , f “ Monsieur Beaucaire.”
Her Majesty s {“ The Eternal City.”
Theatre Royal “ A Life’s Revenge.”
Ofera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Prince’s Court Annette Kellermann, &c., &c.
“ If I Were King,” the play that seems to
have been suggested by “Cyrano de Bergerac,”
is filling the bill at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) for a
week. Given a more convincing fourth act, the
far-fetched story of Frangois Villon and Louis the
Eleventh would be one pf the finest dramas of its
picturesque kind, and, anyway, it could be easily
improved by cutting Villon’s aged mother clean
out of the picture. She is as painful and
unnecessary as the demented parent who
pops her head into the opening scene of
“Sherlock Holmes” for one brief moment.
True, Julius Knight expresses Villon’s unsober
affection for his “mammy” in an effective man-
ner. The actor scores a point, but he scores at
the expense of the play. “Mammy” is a de-
pressing feature in a high-spirited fiction, and she
helps to prolong a scene which is otherwise more
than long enough. This scribe, for one, would
like to hear of the old girl’s grey hairs having gone
down in sorrow to the grave before the curtain
rose.
* * * *
What one likes about “ If I Were King ”
is its democratic sentiment. The King’s “ push,”
with the exception of a stately Katherine, are
mean, contemptible creatures, whereas the Parisian
“Liver push, ” or Flying Angels, headed by Villon
aforesaid, are a shocking lot of heroes covered
with tokens of valor at the finish. Villon, per-
sonally, gets converted into a new man by circum-
stances, Katherine being the chief circumstance,
whereas the minor larrikins rush unconverted to
the field of glory, and stoush the foe in the interests
of sport. Previously a lady of tlio loosest char-
acter has saved France by saving Villon’s life.
The triumph of disrespectability is complete.
Julius Knight plays the noble vagabond with more
natural abandon, humor, warmth, and variety of
effect thanCuyler Hastings put into the part. His
hoarseness and monotonous habit of dropping his
voice at the end of a line are faults that weigh
little against his virtues in this case. Miss Maud
Jeffries, beautiful in a red wig, is an interesting
Katherine, and Arthur Wontner gives a plain,
straightforward representation of the King’s pe-
culiarities. Miss Lane reappears as the courtesan
in black tights ; George Carey, Stirling and
Plimmer make the most of their smell parts ;
whilst four nice girls are bracketed together as
“doxies.” Miss Russell, the winsome Stephanie
in “The Royal Divorce,” is doomed to be a
“ doxy ” this time, and her principal duty is to
play a silent game of mediaeval euchre with one of
the blokes. “If I Were King” should have a
prosperous week, terminating on Friday. A
series of revivals —three nights for each—starts
on Saturday with “Monsieur Beaucaire,” after
which “ The Eternal City,” “ Silver King,” &c.
The farcical romance at Melb. Princess’s,
considerably improved in the acting since the first
performance, will run for a few more nights only.
It is a charming show as some people understand
it, but the people who don’t understand it are a
considerable minority exercising a lamentable
influence over the others who stay 1 away. With
such bright, witty pieces as “ The Duke of Killie-
crankie” a manager puts the public under an
obligation to him. The public mostly shirks its
obligations.
* * * *-
The Russian prince who provides a knoufc-
ing entertainment for his palace guests is still an
object of popular indignation at the Royal.
Anderson’s drama of alleged Russian life pro-
mises to flourish its knout for another week ; but
“Camille” is said to be impending, and if that
love-sick tale is to eventuate before the season
closes, the change may come next Saturday. At
the Bijou, across the road, Walter Sand ford’s co.
are now operating upon “ The Sidewalks of New
York,” and their next job will be “ The Ticket of
Leave Man.”
* 5k Mf
At the Opera House, a dramatic sketch, by
William Hawtrey and Miss Winifred Austin,
introduces Hawtrey as a clever actor who has seen
better days, which, seemingly, ho is, whilst the
lady impersonates a brilliant actress, pretending
to be an amateur, which she certainly isn’t. Miss
Alice Bierce, the American impressionist, con-
tinues to make a favorable impression, particularly
in her extract from “ Zaza,” and the various other
people are doing about as well as could be ex-
pected. This remark doesn’t apply to the snakes
and crocodiles. The sluggish reptiles fall short
of anticipations.
5k 515 5k 5k-
The “Broken Melody,” Vim Biene’s
exquisite melody broken by his company’s indif-
ferent melodrama: —concluded its brief season at
Sydney Lyceum on Tuesday night, and the ’cello
has now gone northward. Van Biene’s first-night
congratulations to the critical, discriminating,
etc., Sydney public were, on the whole, rather
premature ; for most times manager Rete Hughes
could have put in plenty more of Sydney without
crowding anybody. Those who didn’t go missed a
unique show, headed by a unique artist.
5k -:k- 5k 5k
“ Little Tich ” still has the big letters in
the Tivoli bill, but his new turns don’t justify
quite so much ink as the old ones, making, how-
ever, an exception in favor of “All Over the
Shop.” In the other things the pumps seem to be
going hard in order to keep the humor bubbling
up. But liis eccentric foot-work remains abso-
lutely the most remarkable seen here. The
Erasettis, dainty melodists, are back ; and Harry
Taft, a whistler, shrills to the great joy of the
gallery nightly.
5k 5k 5k 5k
Electrical Association of N.S.W. gave its
annual continental at Sydney Cricket Ground last
Thursday. A good quality of moonlight, a capital
musical programme, and an appreciative audience
of some three or four hundred persons made the
evening a complete success. Mr. H. Wilkie’s
comic selections were a feature of the entertain-
ment. Others assisting in the programme were
Messrs. J. E. Sykes, A.. Noble, T.. T. Peterson,
E. Sussmilch, and Waller.
5k 5k 5k 5k
“The Orchid,” at Her Majesty’s, is still
growing healthfully, and proves to be a bloom well
able to attain a sturdy growth in the atmosphere
of the box-office. One of its most popular vocal
numbers is, “0, Mr. Registrar,'” sung by four of
the principals. Artistic-eyed persons looking for
arrangements in color are gratified with the effect
of the emerald-green aprons worn by two gar-
deners who stand in the back-ground of the
Horticultural College during the choruses. Lauri’s
motor ear burlesque has “scorched” into the
gallery’s favor.
5k 5k 5k 5k
“ Woman and Wine ” are, apparently, as
alluring as they were in the days of Samson and
Noah, and Bland Holt sees no need to offer his
Theatre Royal patrons anything else in the way
of wickedness for another week. Then it will be
“ The Betting Book,” a moral drama based on the
iniquity of backing the wrong horse.
5k * 5k 5k
The Parkina-Foldesy Co., in Adelaide,
had the misfortune to run against an “exhibition ”
just opened in the Jubilee Building, and possess-
ing many evening attractions ; also, the musical
part of the population (which is not so great a pro-
portion of the whole as it used to be) has been
spending its pocket-money in farewelling various
young local singers who are making for Europe.
The plucky, if ineffectual, Andrew Hodge has
come back with an “amalgamated” co., and
started on “ Conn the Shaughraun” at the Tivoli.
The Duke of Killiecrankie wooed a woman all in
vain ;
She did not treat him lightly, or regard him with
disdain ;
No, she simply couldn't love him in his ordinary
dress,
She felt no inspiration to ensure his happiness,
Though his castles were ancestral and his title
richly gilt,
Till —he won her coy affections by appearing in a
kilt.
He lured her to his fortress, and he locked the
outer gate ;
Then he offered to release her if she’d vow to he
his mate.
The Duke of Killiecrankie,
He was neither lean nor lanky—
Just an ordinary person, rather heavy middle-
weight ;
She turned the question over in her modest
maiden mind,
The Duke was very wealthy, and the Duke was
very kind ;
But when it came to “ Wilt thou ?” she declined
to say “I wilt,”
For she had not yet beheld him in his captivating
kilt.
O ! the glory of the heather whilst the sun was
dying down !
Sweet and wondrous seemed the landscape to the
lady fresh from town.
Her moods grew soft and sighful as the Duke,
with deep intent,
Figured daily like a member of a Scottish Regi-
ment ;
For the air was full of voices humming love’s
eternal lilt
When the Lady Henrietta saw her suitor in a kilt
One week sufficed to tame her, just one little golden
week.
Her spirit, once so haughty, now was tractable
and meek,
And when her wily captor gave her liberty to go
She didn’t want to leave him—that’s a woman,
doncherknow.
And many tears of rapture on her damask cheek
were spilt
As the maiden gave her promise to the Duke of
Killingkilt.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Compared with the city of Sydney, the financial
drift of the 40 suburban municipalities is ghastly. At the
date of the last “ Statistical Register,” Sydney had
£1,617,527 of liabilities, including outstanding accounts ;
against this it had sinking funds of £306,758. But with
total liabilities of £810,346, of which £754,493 were cur-
rent loans and £32,050 overdrafts, the 40 suburban
municipalities had sinking funds of only £7430. Balmain,
with £70,500 of loans outstanding, hasn’t put aside a
single penny to pay off the debt. Paddington, with a
debt of £70,292, hasn’t the ghost of a sinking fund either.
Except for a few pounds put aside by Burwood and
Kogarah, Marrickville and Randwick are the only two
which haven’t gone to Cohen, spent the proceeds, and
thrown the bill into the cradle for the baby to wrestle with
by'-and-bye. St. Peters, one of Sydney’s most unlovely
suburbs, staggers under a loan of £lO,OOO, the interest
for which eats up an eighth of the borough’s income.
At a recent meeting of St. Peters Council, a misguided
alderman suggested that, say, £6O a year at interest
should be set apart as a sinking fund. This was a poor
amount to begin with, he admitted, but it was something.
The mayor and aldermen gazed in a dazed W'ay at their
colleague, jumped collectively on his idea, and then pro-
ceeded to think of further schemes of spending money
and means of raising it. Interest costs the suburban
councils £35,000 a year—just about a third of all they can
afford for general purposes. Of Waverley’s total annual
outlay 28 per cent, goes to pay interest, 24 per cent, of
Paddington’s, and 21 per cent, of Alexandria’s. And
practically all the revenue-producing works they have to
show' for the money are the dance-halls built somewhere
over the mayors’ cupboards.
* * » *
The Citizens’ Life Assurance Co., Ltd. :
Ordinary Life Department.
Expenses Added
(including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends), off. Funds.
1894 .. £31,080 £4,715 £4,662 £3495 £18,208
1895 .. 44,089 11,049 6,613 26,427
1896 .. 55,483 16,101 8,322 31,060
1897 .. 70,012 14,630 10,502 173 44,707
1898 .. 98,262 18,012 14,373 7000 58,877
1899 .. 124,841 22,276 18,726 375 83,464
1900 .. 145,531 41,252 17,891 80,388
1901 .. 168,520 34,282 26,584 107,654
1902 .. 197,424 34,492 27,533 245 135,154
1903 .. 217,062 . 39,472 20,766 147,824
1004 .. 239,820 58,450 31,894 1531 147,945
Though the claims are the heaviest yet paid (and, of
course, that is what a progressive office must expect,
otherwise there would he a slump in insuring), the year
has been generally satisfactory. Still, in the ordinary
department there was no-striking- increase in busi-
ness. The number of policies issued (7005) w 7 as the
smallest for five years. The tendency is, however, towards
a higher average amount of insurance per policy. In 1894
the average of 3523 ordinary policies issued was £ll6 ; in
1904, of 7005 policies, £l4B. This is still nulch below the
average ; for Australasia it amounts, for policies in all
offices, to £256, while in the U. K. it is £313, and in the
United States £430. The Citizens’ industrial organisation
permits it to do a very large amount of “ intermediate ”
business, which is included in the ordinary department;
and tins reduces the average amount. But that is not a
defect. From the public point of view it is indeed a great
advantage ; it means that the benefits of cheap insurance
have been carried into poorer quarters than usual.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
1894.. £126,998 £32,552 £77,914 £6472 £10,060
1895.. 133,404 51,135 71,766- 10,503
1896.. 146,647 60,362 74,630 11,655
1897.. 156,144 72,022 83,055 167
1898.. 156,493 51,557 78,710 194 26,032
1899.. 165,514 53,125 92,968 143 19,278
1900.. 176,406 49,398 98,681 228 28,099
1901.. 184,112 43,649 99,756 42 40,665
1902.. 188,688 41,707 110,234 - 36,747
1903.. 192,491 53,543 103,860 35,088
1904.. 201,166 68,169. 89,596. . 53,401
Dividends (10 p.c.) are now paid out of the profits of the
industrial department, where the shareholders’ capital
(£20,000) is used. Included in the income for the past
year is £4660, profit on the realisation of securities. This
is a sum seven times greater than the total amount which
it has been found necessary to write off securities in this
department in the past 10 years—a highly creditable per-
formance. Anyway, highly satisfactory ; for possibly
there isn’t much credit due to the co., seeing that, in the
days when other offices were .buying thing's at boom
prices,, the Citizens’had hardly any money to buy any-
thing with. The chances are that, if it had been in the
market then, it would have made the same mess as others,
or w-orse ; for some of the few bargains it did make were
deadly. But it was its luck that it was only after the
boom that it began to shoot ahead in the matter of busi-
ness and funds.
Satisfactory movements are shown in the ex-
pense rates :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Ordinary. Industrial.
1894 .. £l5 0 0 per cent. £6l 7 0 per cent.
1895 .. 15 0 0 „ 53 16 0 „
1898.. 15 0 0 „ 501710
1897 .. 15 0 0 „ 53 15 4
1898 .. 14 12 6 50 5 11
1899 .. 15 0 0 ~ 56 3 5 „
1900.. 12 5 11 „ 55 18 9
1901 .. 15 15 6 54 3 8 „
1902 .. 13 18 11 ~ 58 8 5
1903 .. 13 14 3 ~ 53 19 1
1904 .. 13 5 11 „ 44 10 9
No doubt some of the improvement in the ordinary
branch is due to the fact that business has not been
forced. The ordinary-branch rate is the second lowest in
Australasia. Undoubtedly the lowness of its figures is
partly due to the work of the industrial department. But,
as against that, muss, he set the fact that the average
amount of its policies is also very low (and that is where the
influence of the industrial branch shows itself), and small
policies would, but for excellent management, mean a high
expense rate. An older office, with a much larger accu-
mulation of funds against older policies, shows, naturally,
larger interest earnings ; and these reduce the expense
rate. On the basis of premium income, the Citizens’
expense rate is £l5 19s. Id. ; while the greatest of
Australian offices, on the same basis, shows £l3 6s. Id. —a
comparison which the Citizens’ hasn’t any reason to be
ashamed of. The industrial rate is still high. But with
the fourpence-a-fortnight business it must be so. Even
the great Prudential, of England, working among a
thick population, shows £43 3s. 6d. It is deplorable that
the wage-workers who want to insure can’t be provided
with insurance at less cost than this.
As to the Citizens’ earnings on investments
(both branches): —
Interest Earnings on Average Funds :
1900 .. £3 i 9 4 per cent. 1903 .. £4 3 6 per cent.
1901.. 4 02 ~ ~ 1904.. 46 1 „ „
1902 .. 4 1 0,, ~
This is 'still about 4s. per cent, below the Australian
average. The chief investments are in the following
ptoportions (figures are p.c. of total) :
Public Bank
i Secu- Mort- Other Free- Stock,
rities. gages. Loans, holds. etc.
1894 .. 7-7 33-9 I‘9 32-2 19T
1902 .. 25-9 34-5 5’5 25'8
1903..' 25 9 40'6 6‘4 22-2
1904 .. 28'7 40-7 6‘5 18'9
The balance in each case is made up of outstanding
premiums and sundries. The increase of public securities
and the reduction of freeholds (though the latter are still
extensive) are both movements the right way; and the
low percentage of “ other loans” is a further good feature
of a generally much-improved position. The return of
foreclosed properties now shows nil; and it couldn’t he
much better than that. The actuarial investigation (3 per
cent, net premium basis) shows a surplus of £57 710
which will allow of reversionary bonuses of from £2 15s!
to £1 ss. per cent. The actual deaths were 54 p.c. of the
expected in the ordinary, and 52 per cent, in the indus-
trial —both good figures.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania (Hobart):
Dividend Writ- Added
and ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
£ £ £ £ £
Feb., 1899.. 4,855 5 p.c. = 3714 1,000 171 190 918
Aug., 1899.. 5,519 0 „ ~4457 91,000 100 980
Feb., 1900., 0,011 6 „ „ 4457 1,500 654 101,634
Aug., 1900.. 6,828 7 ~ „ 5200 1,500 128 101 762
Feb., 1901.. 7,502 7 „ „ 5200 1,500 802 102 564
Aug., 1901. .13,497 8 „ ~5943 5,000 2,554 105,118
Feb., 1902.. 8,640 8 „ ~ 5943 2,697 107 815
Aug., 1902.. 8,906 8 „ „ 5943 2,963 110,778
Feb., 1903.. 8,788 8 „ ~ 5943 2,845 113,623
Aug., 1903.. 12,631 10 „ ~7428 5,203 118!826
Feb., 1904..11,646 10 ~ ~ 7428 4,218 123 044
Aug., 1904.. 12,635 10 „ ~7428 5,207 128)251
Feb., 1905..12,791 10,, ~ 7428 5,363 133,614
The profit is higher, but the rate on shareholders’ total
funds (capital and reserves) has shrunk a little :
Aug., 1901.. £ll 1 2 p.c. Aug., 1903 .. £9 18 0 p.c
Feb., 1902.. 7 0 2,, Feb., 1904 .. 818 11
Aug., 1902.. 7 211 ~ Aug., 1904 .. 911 0 „
Feb., 1903.. 619 4 „ Feb., 1905 .. 9 9 8 „
Some of the variations are probably due to recoveries
from debts previously written off, which are not shown
separately. Generally this bank seems to be suffering
from the common complaint—a shrinkage of advances.
Deposits have increased in the six months from £1,433,098
to £1,454,178, but advances have decreased from £1,312,986
to £1,208,970. (Join and Government securities have in-
creased from £446,238 to £571,618, and the increase has
been solely in the unproductive specie and bullion depart-
ment —a movement which might explain the figures even
if they showed an actual reduction in the profits. The
reserves of coin and public securities are now equal to a
substantial 36 per cent, of all liabilities to the public.
* * ■» * c
The Australian Mutual Live Stock Insur-
ance Society, Ltd. (Melbourne): —
Deficit (good-
Carried will not
to Re- reckoned
Jan., Profits. Dividends. serves. an asset).
1899 .. £471 £471 £1750
1900 .. 492 492 1258
1901 .. 619 519 739
Reserves.
1902 .. 758 758 19
1903 771 771 790
1904 839 839 1629
1905 .. 908 20 per cent. =£6B6 222 1851
The present capital is £3431, on which, coupled with
reserves, the year’s profits were at the rate of just under
18 p.c. ; but as the capital was slightly increased during
the year, the actual earnings-rate was rather higher than
this. It is now proposed to further increase the capital.
The little co. is making rapid progress:—
1903. 1904. 1905.
Premium Income .. .. £3719 £4294 £5519
. Interest, &c. .. .. 151 171 201
Claims, &c 2332 2746 3888
Do. p.c. of Premiums 62’7 62'5 70'4
Expenses 768 881 923
Do. p.c. of Premiums 20'7 20'5 167
Commissions are, however, included with claims and re-
insurances, so that the true loss rate is less and the true
expense rate greater than is shown. In this respect the
form of the profit and loss account might be improved.
Practically all the funds are in cash and deposits ; the co.
has itself now wholly written-off its goodwill item.
* * * *
Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.’s New Zealand
Drug Co., Ltd. (Dunedin, M.L.)
Added
Profits. Dividends. Written to Re- Re-
Jan., Off. serves, serves.
1901 £30,593
190 9 / £2,747 7 p.c. =£13,549 £2554 17,237
(Premiums on Shares Issued £1527 18,764
190 , / 14,941 7 p.c. = 13,649 1292 20,056
’’ \ Premi urns on Shares Issued 209 20,265
1904 -f 16 > 479 7 P- c - = 13,683 2000 796 21,061
'' (Premiums on Shares Issued 17 21,078
1905.. 15,466 7 p.c. = 13,686 1780 22,858
The reserves are—Fire insurance account, £3366 ; depre-
ciation account, £llOO ; reserve on customers’ accounts,
£3501 ; and undivided profit (including premiums),
£14,891. In addition there is the item—“ Staff fund
account, £3430.” Apparently this is some sort of a provi-
dent fund ; but if it isn’t available for the purposes of the
co., it should not appear in the balance-sheet. The depre-
ciation account may be a reserve against future depre-
ciation, or it may be an entry against depreciation
which has already occurred ; in the latter case, it isn’t a
genuine reserve. So far as can be traced, nothing has
been provided for wear and tear, &c., during the year.
The capital is £195,544 ; on that and reserves, profits
showed £7 2s. 9d. percent.—a substantial enough return,
assuming that it wasn’t necessary to provide anything for
depreciation, or if it was necessary that something was
provided and lumped with other items in the profit and
loss account. For a trading co., however, there is no
great margin between earnings and dividends, especially
as the whole of the funds, in addition to an uncertain
amount of deposits, are used in the business, and are
nearly all represented by stock, works, and plant. As to
the deposits mentioned, they are lumped with open
accounts—£32,674. It is a bad plan to lump deposits
with anything.
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
Yictoria, Ltd. (Melbourne), which began with a deficit
representing preliminary and flotation expenses
Dividends • Applied
Profits. (5 p.c.) Written to Re- Deficit
and Bonus. Off. serves.
May, 1903 .. £lO7l
Jan., 1904 ..£1450 £456 £994 77
May, 1904 .. 258 638 457
Jan., 1905 .. 1986 £1309 265 412 45
The bonus now declared on purchases is 6d. in the £ (2f
per cent.); this will absorb about £750, and the div.
another £559. The wisdom of making this very large dis-
tribution in the present state of the society is highly
questionable. On Jan. 21 it had sundry' debtors, £509,
and cash, £261; total, £770. That constituted the whole of
its assets, apart from stock, vacant land, and plant. On
the other side it owed £8127 balance due on land, and
£4078 to sundry creditors, a great part of the latter repre-
sented by cheques unpresented at the balance. It is
pretty' certain, therefore, that the div. and bonus must
either be paid out of stock or overdraft—by' selling stock
and not replenishing, or by borrowing. No doubt the
people who run a co-operative concern usually have a
hard row to hoe. Generally speaking-, the capital put up
is insufficient; yet, instead of allowing the profits to go
towards supplying the deficiency', there is a prompt
demand for dividends. This seems to have hap-
pened in the present case ; and it must seriously
handicap the business. The net liabilities to the public
(liabilities less cash and sundry' debtors) have increased
from £9159 in January, 1904, to £12,513 in January, 1905,
including div. and bonus at the latter date. And now it
has been decided to go further and deeper into debt for
new premises ; this money' is being raised on debentures.
The society' has what looks like a good opportunity; its
turnover (£38,968 for the past six months) is phenomenal
for so young a concern ; but it is rushing into debt at a
perilous rate, and is thus seriously jeopardising its
future.
* * * *
The Adelaide Co-Operative Society, Ltd.
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
Feb., 1902 .. About 8 p.c. =£2332 £384 £l6OO
Aug., 1902 .. £2511 „ 8 „ „ 2351 308 1452
Feb., 1903 .. 2427 „ 7J „ „ 2181 329 1369
Aug., 1903 .. 2286 „ 7J „ „ 2179 242 1234
Feb., 1904 .. 2433 „ 7| „ „ 2152 254 1261
Aug., 1904 .. 2529 „ 7J ~ ~ 2104 364 1322
0 ) } 2745 » 7 J »■> 2140 300 1627
The exact amount of the dividend pay'able for the.half-
year cannot be determined; for the society lias nothing
in the way of fixed capital—not only members’ loans (now
£17,603), but “capital” as well (at present£4o,3s6)can
be withdrawn on three months’ notice. Apparently 8 per
cent, is paid as interest or dividend; but, owing- pro-


W* :
Tramways for Mines.
CHEAP HAULAGE often Means the Difference between
- Dividends and Liquidation.
IP INTERESTED, write
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop., Ltd.,
64 PITT-ST., SYDNEY. neibourne Office: 504 Little Collins-street.
A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
DHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor Oil,
* Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, Shellac, “Sun
Brand” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro-
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
H3T" Correspondence Invited.
KEY. MARKWALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle,
Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, Christchurch.
bablv to the constant variations in the amount’
and some time-allowances, the rate on the total
outstanding' works out at rather less—about 7f p.c. the
society has a mortgage of £4500 ; on the other side,
however, it has 8. A. Govt, stock £3024, Treasury Bills
£lOOO, and £3845 cash balances. The whole of the
capital being liable to be called for on such short notice,
this %nortgage appears to be held for purposes of safety ;
the Govt, stock held against it could be promptly
realised in case of a rush, whereas a rush couldn’t be met
so easily by realising on the groceries, etc. Why, however,
the society can’t built up its own £4OOO or £5OOO reserve
out of profit isn’t clear. True, the business belongs to
present members, and the idea seems to be that all the
profits they make they should get, and that they should
be entitled to draw them when they please. But as the
business belongs to members, anything that makes for the
security of the business is in the members’ interest; and a
substantial reserve fund is one of those things. There
are now 3640 members, the number is increasing, and
generally' the enterprise appears to be solidly prosperous.
* * * *
The Bega Co-Operative Creamery Co., one of
N.S. Wales’ struggling butter-shippers :
Divs. Suppliers’ Written Re-
Profits. (5 p.c.) Bonus. off. serves.
June, 1902 .. £176 £750
Dec., 1902.. £4ll £319 £154 688
June, 1903.. 523 177 148 BS6
Dec., 1903 ..535 148 1273
June, 1904.. 846 179 142 1798
Dec., 1904.. 79 321 137 1419
The past half-year’s shipping transactions may, however,
result in a much better profit than is* shown in the fore-
going. The co. had sundry debtors £4191 on Dec. 31st ;
on the other side it had £5089 cash, in addition to trade
debtors £9s7—an unusually strong position for a co-
operative co. Another excellent feature is the steady
writing-down of assets, mostly plant, &c.
« * » *
From Manager Crowley, of the City Mutual
Life Society:—
“Bulletin (16/3/’O5) says that ‘even now the society
does a very large proportion of apparently risky business.’
The only apparently risky business we have been
indulging in last year is the purchase of a considerable
amount of New South Wales Government stock. There
is no doubt that a number of worthy people look with
suspicion on this class of investment, but we thought
that 3 p.c. stock at £79 worth chancing a few thousands
in. Again—‘ Latterly a smaller proportion than usual
of the funds has been going into little mortgages.’ But,
as in your own figures the proportions shown are 41‘2 for
1903 and 42'3 for 1904, this opinion seems scarcely
justified.”
The safest securities are public stocks and cash ; the City
Mutual has 9} per cent, of its funds in them, as against 30
per cent, held by the Citizens and 261 P er cent, held by
theA.M.P. In the past seven years it has written off
about 10 per cent, of all its surplus of income over claims
and expenses. Last year it received gross in interest
£13,749, and it wrote its assets down £1586. That, any-
way, looks as if there has been risky business about the
premises. The Bulletin didn’t say that “ less than usual
had been going into little mortgages.” It said less had been
going “ into little mortgages, &c., and more into Govt,
securities and properties.” And the figures prove it. In
1903 mortgages and other loans represented 02'4 per cent,
of the funds, Government securities and properties 28T
per cent.; in 1904, the former had decreased to 61 - 7 per
cent, and the latter had increased to 31 per cent.—which,
as was observed, are movements the right way, assuming
that the properties purchased were good bargains. Still,
the City Mutual only added £3BOO last year to its very
small holding of N.S.W. stock ; and if it risked a few
more thousands in that, and cut down its proportion of
loans, it might possibly have to write down its assets less
in the future than it has had to do in the past.
* * * *
The Malting Co. of N.S.W. is passing out;
directors lately accepted an offer for a complete purchase,
made privately, and shareholders have so far agreed that
only the statutory meeting to confirm the liquidation is
now necessary. Terms won’t be disclosed till after that
has happened.
» * » *
Union comes closer. The Citizens’ life office,
which has had State directors as well as the head-office
board, has decided to abolish the former, in the interests
of economy, and in the belief that, with local staffs and
rapid communication, there isn’t anything to be done by
State boards which can’t be done as well by the central
board.
» * * e
Developments over the recently-formed co. to
work the South Star mine, Sebastopol Plateau (Vic.),
deserve attention. Originally the Bank of Victoria held
a mortgage over the mine and plant for £21,000. The
chance of getting that money back by realisation of
the security was about as hopeless as it would be to expect
George Reid to run a straight political course. Then
arose the new co. The bank, on the formation of this co.,
wrote £6OOO off the debt, preferring to have a live concern
to a mining carcase. Consequently, at that stage there
stood a co. with practically nothing called up, but with a
ready-made obligation of £15,000; and with royalty-
holders in the back-ground. Investors asked how, with a
limited capital provided, venture could hope to succeed.
Now that the whole project is unfolded, everyone
wonders why no one thought of that before.
But, then, Ballarat is the home of queer mining schemes.
The idea is that Bent shall give £5OOO to sink the South
Star shaft from 2500 to 3000 ft., the co. to furnish £2500.
Thus we have a bran-new venture, which has never spent
a shilling, going direct to the State for aid. It is not as
if the shareholders were poor men ; they are, in fact, the
reverse. Ballarat itself is one of the richest districts in
the State, and as success at the South Star means a huge
revival in Plateau mining, there is every reason why local
capital should furnish funds, and not the general tax-
payer. Further, the hesitancy of shareholders to put up
£5OOO to sink the shaft does not inspire confidence as to
the future. Why should the State help the bank, and
why should it help to create a market in shares when the
past history of the mine does not justify the existence of
one? If the money has to be lent it should be on the
distinct understanding that the State should have first
call on the plant. This is done in other cases where
advances have been made to mining concerns, and
there is not the least necessity for an exception with the
South Star.
* * * *
In this season of mining dulness it is cheering to
get any ray of comfort, even such a twinkle as struggles
through the following sentence : “ Your board has every
confidence in stating that we possess a verv valuable
property, which in time should become a consistent divi-
dend-payer.” This is fathered by V. J. Saddler, who,
apparently, has found time to drag himself away from the
fight over the patent rights of the Potter process to
reckon up the possibilities of the KingCassilis mine (Vic.).
Not that Saddler hasn’t the manager at his back
when making this statement. But experience at
the Cassilis, adjoining, has been that divs. have
come in fits and starts, while thousands have been
mopped up in solving the metallurgy of the ore. There-
fore, to shareholders may be whispered the advice not to
count chicks till they are hatched. The first little chick
to be hatched in the case of the King Cassilis is a state-
ment from the manager that he has a certain quantity of
ore proved of a given value. As he writes that “ the
values obtained by the actual treatment of the stone
(during last half-year) agreed fairly well with the assays
taken,” and as there is over 600 ft. on the strike of the lode
proved at the No. 2 level, a reliable estimate ought not to
be an impossible task. Pending the proving of this stone,
there is no need just yet to indulge in high-falutin’ about
the King Cassilis, no matter what assays have been
obtained from driving.
* » * *
The Broken Hill Prop, has decided to suspend zinc
production at its salt-cake works. As frequently stressed
here, the co. has only been producing jf zinc concentrate,
and has had to rely on European smelters to buy that
product. Zinc (or spelter) smelting is in the hands of a
comparatively few works, and those works understand
each other very well. Right from the outset they looked
unkindly upon the B.H. Prop.’s new industry, made com-
plaints about the product, and recently put up the
returning 1 charges so much that very little profit was
left. The co. has seen this coming for some time, and
has therefore been strengthening its reserves with a view
to establishing spelter works of its own, in the hope that a
freer market may be found for the metal. Whether it will
have much success in that way is, however, doubtful, as
the European spelter producers and galvanisers (who take
most of the spelter) work together to a great extent ; and
it looks as though the co. will have a pretty hard fight to
find a market—at any rate, at anything like present
prices. The present trouble will, however, not reduce
profits, for the simple reason that, after paying'for experi-
mental work, &c., there have so far been none from zinc-
concentrates. It does, however, very seriously affect the
outlook for Broken Hill’s future profits. And it throws a
number of men out of work.
The uncertainty of the foreign market for both
zinc concentrates and spelter makes it more necessary to
establish the iron industry in Australia ; for these two—
the iron and spelter industries —to a great extent work
together. During the past three years the shipments of
galvanised iron to Australasia, in tons, from Great Britain
have been as follows :
1902. 1903. 1904.. Total.
Australia .. 64,778 48,342 55,333 158,453
Maoriland .. 17,878 15,825 18,246 51,949
Total .. 72,656 64,167 73,579 210,402
Broken Hill is, of course, capable of producing vastly
more spelter than this represents (the iron represents the
bulk of the tonnage in the foregoing); but if the Aus-
tralian market were secured it would be something to go
on with ; and the work of supplying these goods alone
would give employment to, approximately, 6000 men and
boys.
» * * *
B.H. Block 14 had the luck to make a good 12
months contract for sale of zinc concentrates ; hence its
plant will keep going even though the B.H. Prop, is to
shut down.
» * * *
Already Rising Sun, one of the recent Broken
Hill resurrections, has financial troubles, and there doesn’t
seem a hope of keeping work going. Prospects of this
extreme end of the field, whose mines haven’t got mills
of their own, have, however, been brightened by the
Silverton Tram Co.’s expressed willingness to run out a
light line towards White Leads. Latter show is, on the
other hand, affected by the set-hack to the zinc business
—its ore bodies are small, but some of them are extremely
rich in zinc. This rail-extension would also help the
Pinnacles, always hitherto handicapped by expensive road
cartage.
Report from Mt. Drysdale, Cobar, of an alleged
strike of Boz. dirt, through a 3ft. reef.at the 275 level,
comes at the psychological moment: and if the news is
backed up in the right way it will prevent the partial
failure of a much-boosted reconstruction scheme. Drys-
dale is essentially a mine of pockets, but of late years
there have n’t been enough of them to straighten out a
gradually-increasing mortgage ; and of the new issue of
51,250 shares to provide for that and other purposes, some
15,000 are still wandering in search of an owner. These
shares will probably be withdrawn for the hoped-for
market rise ; but that rise will most likely wait for some-
thing more substantial than an assay.’ Mt. Drysdales
have always been a tricky scrip.
* * * •
Myall and Peak Hill are gradually adding to what
is going to be a very big plant and a method of treatment
unique in N.S.W. mining. ’Tisn’t long since the Myalls took
over the Peak, but already four vats of 250 tons’capacity
are at work, and this number will be doubled early in
April, and eventually there will be 20 vats. Peak Hill is low
grade, but the gold is free, and the porous gossany ore
amenable to dry treatment into the cyanide vats. Already
a 400-ton-per-day breaker has been'installed, and other
things shape towards a well-equipped and well-managed
mine. As costs of treatment do not exceed ss. per ton,
and output will increase with additional plant, Peak Hill
looks like a steady thing that may take a little time about
it, but is going to get.there in the end.
* * * *
Mt. Boppy South people have again missed
putting their unlucky show under a promising option.
South has been examined by G. H. Blakemore, James
Hocking, Alfred Dunstan, and /Eneas M’Donald, all of
whom speak well of it ; but the difficulty of handling is
put down to fact of Mt. Boppy holding a small block
(which they won’t sell) intruding acKjgs the line of South’s
reef. Manager Thos. Pascoe’s recent report to Bull
holders is that, so far as he can judge, Mt. Boppy reef at
lower levels looks well for southern portion of tliat mine ;
everything is dipping south, and as it dips gets richer. In
view of this, amalgamation looks the right thing, or, at
any rate, a mutual workable scheme to develop the south
end of what is at present the State’s most prolific gold-
mine.
•* * * *
Mine-manager Dyson, who succeeded John Fox,
a few weeks ago, at the Great Oobar, hasn’t settled down
to his billet. Alleged he shortly goes to the Northern
Territory.
» * * *
“M.C.”: Dapto is not the first smelter struck
by foreign competition. Block 14 and Wallaroo co.’s lost
money in lead smelting ; both seem to have reckoned on
smaller furnace-losses than were actually made. Cana-
dian smelters suffered from powerful American smelting
trusts just as Australian smelters suffer from the German.
Canadian smelters had either to shut down or get a
bounty. Australian conditions are worse, because im-
ported ore into U.S.A. has to be smelted in bond, and the
metals are exported. The German metal trade depends
upon foreign supplies, so a duty is imposed on metals to
encourage the importation of ore and protect the smelters.
Even when returning charges are cut down to £4, and
only 14s. lid. is allowed to cover smelting and refining
(B. 16 3 ’O4), the incidence of the lead duty on a recovery
of, say, 60 units of lead per ton of ore protects the
German. Freights on concentrates are exceptionally low.
Assuming our smelting costs were as low as the German,
we still could not compete. The German tariff aims to
get the smelting of the metals which it manufactures
done in Germany, and to pay for imported concentrates
with German exports. Australia is an ass to stand that,
for there is practically no other country from which large
supplies of concentrates can he obtained.
* * * *
Disaster still dogs the Chillagoe Co. (N.Q.).
Working account for the 12 months, after taking credit
for £8799 “estimated surplus to he received” on ship-
ments, shows a profit of £10,429 ; but all that and another
£25 000 is mopped up by debenture interest (£29,898),
office expenses, travelling costs, etc., including £2924
spent over the Etheridge railway proposal. Total profit
and loss deficit (this is the new co.’s third year) is now
£80,748. At Dec. 31st there was considerably over a full
12 months’ debenture interest unpaid. Heaven only
knows what the real deficit is ; certainly it is considerably
past the £80,748. For instance, Mungana Chillagoe
shares are reckoned an asset (£25,000) at their
full face value, and £18,695 “ discount and ex-
penses in connection with the debenture issue ” is also '
included as an asset, though it is paper pure and simple.
And that's not taking note of the £106.643 spent on mine
development and not charged to working account. The
co. has raised £498,250 on debentures. ’ If the whole of
the capital were wiped out, and the management expenses
were reduced to £2OOO, the year’s working profit would
have been sufficient to pay 5 per cent, on £IGS,SBO of these
debentures. It could have paid the same on about
£200,000 the previous year. And all this with an unusually
strong copper-market. If the capital were wiped out,
and if the shareholders handed things over to the deben-
ture-holders, and the debenture-holders wrote their
debenture-capital down by two-thirds, and forgave them-
selves outstanding interest, the thing might look fairly
good for 3 or 4 per cent.
Chillagoe railway last year earned £50,113, and
running expenses were £21,927, leaving £28,186 to pay
interest on £336,120 construction and £22,957 equipment.
This shows over 7 per cent. The amount received from
public traffic was £30,376, or £B5OO more than the entire
expenditure. Put it this way : The co.’s working account
showed a profit of £10,429, while the railway alone showed
a profit of £28,186 ; so that the mining and smeiting busi-
ness must have resulted in a loss of £17,757, without
reckoning in interest, office and management expenses,
&c. What a ghastly record! Of course the direc-
tors propose something else now. General manager
Greenway wants concentrators. But then Mr. Green way
nearly always wants some new machinery. It amounts to
an admission, however, that Chillagoe is a low-grade pro-
position, or a series of little low-grade propositions.
Chillagoe admitted to he a series of little low-
grade shows—what a fall is here ! The greatest fall in
Australian mining;
* » * *
Day Dawn Freehold Consolidated, Charters
Towers, is at a standstill; hemmed in by streets held by
Mills United. Partial amalgamation is fixed up, so far as
Towers’ holders are concerned, blit directors must first
see how non-residents like the deal. Consolidated chair-
man Elliott will go to England (where Mr. Mills is) to ex-
plain. A penny call is expected by holders to raise the
£3OO granted as expenses. Co. paid a few divs. from its
top ground, and with reasonable luck may do so again.
Brilliant Central treated 1175 tons for 7300 z. Concen-
trates brought £196. Stone cut in the cross cut (foot-
wall) has not been prospected yet. Reef is lOin. thick one
side of the cross cut and 2in. thick on the other. No
mine with treatment in vogue on Charters Towers can
keep up a monthly dividend of Od. Clark’s B.W. and
Victory has holed through to No. 3 underlie. This gives
better ventilation, hut very little else. Phoebe is going
strong ; 435 tons, 6060 z. ; concentrates, £942 ; residues,
£214. Co. has 6j acres ; reef, which will not last for ever,
averages 15in. Should enter the div. list soon, as over-
draft is wiped off, and there is a good credit balance.
Marshall’s Queen, 347 tons, 2210 z. ; sands gave £413.
Doubtful if it could be done twice running. Machinery
for Plant’s Deep is being erected. Heaven knows what
for. Perhaps they are after the diamond drill that was
lost some years ago. Mills United, 493 tons, 3830 z. ; con-
centrates (6 tons unsold) and residues, £6OB. Reef in No.
BE. level is on the make again. Mine has been hanging
fire ; but development on the E. side is being pushed on.
Brilliant Freehold, shutdown since the fire, has called a
meeting to wind up. Craven’s Caledonia is doing the
same.
* * * •
Queen Cross directors, Charters Towers, ad vised
London office that Is. dividends would, they .thought, be
maintained for this year. Yet last div. is 9d. Diamond
drill stopped in granite after going 1600 ft. from its No. 2
level. Shares are down to buyers 11s. ; this seems bed-
rock.
* * * ¥
Brilliant and St. George, like most other C.
Towers front-rankers, is in the doldrums. Profit for past
half-year was £30,129; after allowing for February div.,
cash balances were reduced during half-year from
£24,249 to £15,242 ; in other words, divs. and duty paid
were not earned by £9007. Ore reserves are seriously
shrunk, and there is a prospect of much dead-work,
with, of course, reduced divs.
* * * *
The day of the mining “ flat ” has not altogether
gone, so far as Mt. Lyell is concerned. This is indicated
by the support given to the Crown Lyell—one of the most
hopeless of the remaining mines of the field. Poking
about after copper ore in the mineralised schists has cost
probably £20,000, and, unless the unexpected happens,
chance of improvement is as remote as that the down-
ward continuation of the North Lyell ore-body will ever
expand to its original dimensions. Chasing for ore in
beds of schists at Lyell has been an unprofitable game in
every mine that has tried it, and if the Crown had the
nous or the willingness to grasp that fact it would long
since have told shareholders that calls should be
“ chucked.” The hope of the co. vanished with the prac-
tical cutting-out of the ore body at the 500 ft. level in
the North Lyell, no payable prospect having been got from
what the directors are pleased to term the “ main pyritic
ore body ”in the mine. What a ghastly failure were all
the old floats —North Lyell, South Lyell, Tasman and
Comstock, Grown Lyell ! Nothing to show but a long
record of extravagant expenditure and profitless results.
Even the Crown was floated with a capital of £250,000.
* * * *
Latest Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, return is
12460 z. gold and 73960 z. silver from 26 tons ; total from
October, 40850 z. gold and 22,4210 z. silver from 254 tons.
This tots up a value of roughly £20,000, making ore worth
nearly £BO a tom Three more lots have since been dis-
patched ; ore is so rich that 70 tons sent are expected to
double output to date. From work done at 100, 150 and
200 ft., there seems to be a pipe or lens of ore 35ft. long,
pitching north. This pipe runs up to 20ft. wide, a rich
vein forming about one-fourth, rest of the ore bulking
15dwt. At both ends shoot has pinched to 2ft., worth
20z., and driving has been stopped meantime. Rich
shoot will be followed downwards to see if values con-
tinue. Between 40 and 50 tons weekly are being dis-
patched to smelters, and, as ventilation is now all right,
this may be improved upon.
* » * *
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), has not had a
full run of its duplicated plant, but has materially in-
creased its. return. A monthly 36000 z. may be expected,
according to manager’s estimates. The winze below
300 ft. has been temporarily suspended, and prospects do
not look too promising in that quarter. One would like
very much to see the result of opening up the 400 ft. level ;
if prospects were favorable there, investors would then
have much more confidence. Projected increase of div.
may be postponed a month, but April div. should be 9d.
per share, or £7500.
* * * *
Victory United, Cuddingwara (W.A.) continues
to make calls, and seems likely to continue to do so.
Equipment is in a bad state, and w.ll practically have to
be renewed. Mine may eventually be placed on a payable
basis, but, so far, is a mere gambling coUnter.
* * * *
Cue (W.A.) crushings still tell the same unflat-
tering tale: Kinsella, after having been abandoned
three or four times, was taken in hand by a party of
miners. They started on a big scale ; pumping and
crushing plant was erected; arid any quantity of stone
easily accessible looked good for an ounce. Yec the
clean-up from 10C0 tons only averaged 3idwt. Victory
United got 187 oz. from 300 tons, and this was promptly
followed by an intimation that the mine would be closed
down pending arrival of a new engine. Great Fingall
South is in sore financial straits. Machinery has long
since been removed from the Golconda, Mainland Cou-
sols, Gem of the Murchison, Red, White and Blue,
Fortune of War, and others. Yet the much-busted place
still cries for a State battery. Cue is simply kept alive
by State grants and other forms of public subscription.-
Its gold yield has reached vanishing point, and a big-
saving could be effected by concentrating-public business
in Day Dawn, four miles distant. The latter town is
fairly humming through its contiguity to Great Fingall ; _
but Government fatuously spoon-feeds the older p.aee,
simply because some permanent buildings were erected
there some years since.
* * * *
A recent arrival from S’ Africa writes : We hear
a lot about the increased number of whites employed in
the Rand mines since the advent of the Chows. But the
surface white hands are now counted in—which makes a
lot of difference.
* ? * * r
The Melbourne session of the 1.0.0. F. has re-
jected for the present a humorous claim made by one of
the suburban lodges. It was a claim for a funeral allow-
ance: on behalf of a vanished brother, who, according to
the claimant’s allegations, will never need a funeral. The
vanished brother in question went into the sea for a swim
on New Year’s Day, and has not been heard of since. He
is supposed to have met a shark; nevertheless, the
1.0.0. F. lodge requests the regulation allowance for
his Christian burial. It reminds one of the
Swiss jbdellers the Jungfrau lvapelle who were
imported to Australia many years ago by Pete
Hughes and Willie Jenkins (deceased). These frugal
Swiss vocalists came under a contract which guaranteed
them their passage back to Europe at the end of the
engagement. One of them happened to die during the
long and profitable Australian tour, and the managers
duly buried him with musical honors. The other 19 or so
lived on and drew their salaries, and finally got their
tickets to take them back to their native land. But when
the management came to settle up with them, the artless
jbdellers didn’t seem quite happy. There was something
on their mind. They went away ruminatively, and then
they came back in the form of a deputation to state their
grievance. The management, from their point of view,
had pocketed the passage money of their dead comrade
who had ceased to jodel, and they wanted the sum to be
distributed among them in 19 equal parts. And, in a
roundabout way, that recalls the sad complaint of
almost the biggest mining man ever imported to
Australia. He didn’t land with much coin, but when he
told some of the directors that he would like some shares
in the co. they fixed things up for him —ns was to pay for
the shares when he could at their then market price. lie
took them up later, murmured a little when the dividends
weren’t added, and finally, when he finished his contract
and sailed for home, growled deeply because the directors
objected to pay exchange on his “ savings ” of £60,000
or so, made by selling the shares at a huge profit.
*-*-*■ ft
One of the biggest Maoriland green-stone
boulders found of late days was discovered by pure acci-
dent near Kumara lately. It was a big, dreary-looking
hunk of rock, to which a gold-dredge had long been
moored. Somehow a corner was chipped off, and then
it began to look different. It weighed three tons, and
was vvofth froni €d. to 2s. per lb., according to quality.
There isn’t much greenstone worth more than 2s. per lb.
in the rough.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company have
placed an order with the Austral Otis Engineering
Company, South Melbourne, for a 1200 horse power con-
densing plant with Edwards’s type air pumps driven by
compound vertical engines, and a horizontal cross
compound steam engine, to work in conjunction with the
condenser. This engine plant will, when finished, be one
of the largest and most powerful plants at work in the
colonies, and is to be erected at the Port Pirie works.*
* » * *
Financial News (London) July 15, 1904, writes
with regard to the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited: “It is especially creditable to the
management that a steady rate of progress has been
maintained during the last few years, when general
conditions in all the company’s fields of operations have
been unfavorable.”*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fiuming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discription of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange) for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Economical 'Gold Mining.—Low grade ores
and high cost in fuel and wages have made it imperative
that managers and engineers should reconstruct upon
more economical lines. Heretofore the boiler plant was
given little consideration, but the introduction of the
Hornsby “upright” water tube boiler having demons-
trated great economy, and with safety under indifferent
conditions of feed water, it is now superseding other types.
In W.A. these boilers are worked with an economy' not
heretofore known on those fields, and in Queensland over
2500 h.p. is on order for the Mount Morgan Gold Mining
Co. It is cleaned in one fourth the time of other boilers
and has no tube troubles. Boilers may be seen in opera-
tion in. Sydney and Melbourne. It. Hornsby and Sons,
Ltd., Sussex-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * + *
The Babcock Boiler seems to be favored by
mining engineers, over 50 mines in Australia using these
boilers. Mount Morgan has 20, Waihi Gold Mining Co.
24, Mount Lyell 12, Tasmanian Gold Mining Company' 7,
and at Broken Hill there are 30 distributed amongst the
mines, water works, and electric supply, while in
Western Australia they are looked upon as a necessity',
there being now 63 in the principal mines and Kalgoorlie
Water Supply. It will be noted that coal is expensive at
Broken Hill, and wood fuel is expensive at W.A. These
figures speak for themselves. Evidently the ease of
transportation, the economy in fuel and maintenance and
the adaptability to any' class of fuel, that are such con-
spicuous points in the Babcock Boiler, are much
appreciated in Australian mines.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Assay Balance, Ainsworth's No. 1 special, 5 inch
beam, agate knife edges anfl bearings etc., sensibility
l/200th = 0.005 milligramme —l/13000th grain. Price £5O.
Large stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. 11. B. SILBERBERG and Co., 443
Bourke-strcet, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
v * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they' are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte,' bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * » *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker. Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * <i
The huge diamond found lately in the Premier
mine, Transvaal, weighs, in plain language, lflh. As far
as the London experts can tell before starting to cut it,
it has no internal flaw or discoloration. But dealers
assert that it will have to be broken up—there’s no market
for such monstrosities. Even the Jagersfontein Excelsior,
of 972 carats, after awaiting a purchaser for several years,
was lately' cut into tw'o large stones and many' small ones.
Persistent reports come down from North
Queensland that private mills are paying growers
much better prices for cane than those Central
mills which got into arrears and have been taken
, over by the State. The mills fell into these
arrears under the Philp black-labor regime.
Surely the present Government isn’t trying to make
up for the black-labor failure, out of the people
who are. making a struggle to establish cane-grow-
ing usea white-labor industry !
Croydon is reckoned the pure merino
Labor centre of N.Q. Yet there the cheap Chow
runs six stores, a butchery, and a bakery. Labor
member Murphy was compelled to become rigidly
“white/’ before he submitted: himself to the
Labor ballot, and even now dare not publish a
Chinaman’s advt. in his newspaper; yet, in spite
of that, a white butcher has spent a healthy sum
in trying to run the Chow off, but hasn’t suc-
ceeded.
“On the land,” as it is in the north of
S. Australia
Although the crops have failed here (Cradoek) for the
l'ast ten years, the stout-hearted farmers have started
seeding- operations again, and are risking a failure for the
eleventh time. Even now two good years would lift the
struggling farmers into comparative affluence, so easy is
the land to work and so liberal are the land laws.
“ So liberal are the land laws” that tens of thou-
sands of acres of the best farming land in the
State are used for sheep-runs, while farmers are
crowded out to districts where “ the crops have
failed for the past 10 years”! The liberality of
the parents who allow one over-fed kid to lock
himself up in the pantry, while the rest of the
family have the freedom of the ash-barrel!


•SOuoiiej. 4( oj jO&uq,,
c
sdf
NEW AUTUMN and WINTER PATTERNS,
now opened, will be forwarded with Self -
Measurement Forms upon Application.
DAVID JONES & CO
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney.
HARRINGTON’S
THE CHIEF
AUSTRALASIAN
DEPOT FOR
New (Headquarters)
Address—
CAMERAS
"* PHOTO. MATERIALS.
AMATEURS’ PLATES and FILMS DEVELOPED.
PRINTING, ENLARGING, &0.
THE 1905 MODEL
“VICTOR”
MAGAZINE HAND CAMERA.
Takes Piiotos. 4J x 3 jin.
SIMPLE TO OPERATE.
Fitted with Magazine to
carry 12 Plates or 24 Films.
Very latest improved
working- parts. Neat and
Compact. ' i
Price— 30/ -
with Book of Simple
Instructions.
Postage in N.S.W., 13 ;
Other States & N.Z., 2/3.
-
m
m,
n
m
386 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, andat 93 Queen St, Brisbane.
Society
Melbourne Argus did a dangerous thing
when it asked its readers to decide by referendum
“ the 12 best novels.” A close inspection of the
lists published induces the belief that Argus
readers are best qualified to decide which are the
12 best thistles.
FROM HER POINT OF VIEW.
CLERICAL VISTOR (waiting for ma): “ And is it a good look, my child ?”
JULIA : Rotter ! Not a divorce from cover to cover.”
The law of commercial evolution—the sur-
vival of the Fattest.
* * * *
Tlie narrow-minded parsons of Colling-
wood (Melb.) have persuaded the local council
that the morals of their community will he ruined
if the city brass band is allowed to play sacred
music in the Victoria Park and Darling Gardens
on Sundays. The Shepherds argued that it would
“attract the children away from tlie Sabbath-
schools.” Oh, Thrip’ny, what crimes are com-
mitted in thy name !
The family doctor has taken the place of
the cleric as the modern woman’s confidant.
* * * *
“C. R.” : When H. H. Champion was
publishing the Champion in Melbourne, he aspired
t > be the Protector of the Poor and the Defender
o' the Oppressed. One issue, in a spirit of mag-
nificent chivalry, he announced in his paper that
lie was ready to take up the cause of any wronged
young woman who should apply at the office. He
would make her deceiver do her justice or scorch
him alive in the fire of publicity. The day after
the paper came out there was a young woman with
an infant in her arms sitting on every second
step of his office stairs ! The neighbors all affected
to believe that the young women were there to
press their claims against members of the Cham-
pion staff. The chivalrous announcement was
absent from the next issue.
* * * *
■ A reverend member of the Methodist Con-
ference (Melbourne), complaining dejectedly of
the poor returns which congregations pan out, even
when cyanided with the most impassioned plead-
ings, said: “It is a common thing when congre-
gations are gathered together for a brother to look
round upon the assemblage and say : ‘ This is a
£2 house.’” “A £2 house”: another bond of
sympathy between church and stage !
• * * *
The “soldiers’ memorial,” overlooking
Hobson’s Bay, at St. Kilda(Vic.), is, perhaps, the
most hideous of a hundred ugly monuments raised
in memory of the Australian pioneers of the
Chinese labor movement in South Africa. It is
shaped like a stunted chimney, is coated with
green tiles, and surmounted with a bit of cheap,
fantastic ironwork, painted to look like copper—
just the sort of structure one would expect to find
in front of a Chow joss-house. The other day
Gov. Talbot unveiled this abomination before a
large, hot, apathetic crowd that refused to cheer
anything or anybody. As contrasted with the
howling frenzy of a war-time demonstration when
our brave boys captured an Africander’s pig, or
carried a Boer’s whiskers at the p >int of the
bayonet, it was most eloquent of a woeful awaken-
ing. Strangers will mistake the monument for a
glorified stink-pipe, raised by Fitzgibbon’s Board of
Works. That, too, is as it should be.
■***■*
The refusal of the English naval authori-
ties to allow one of the ships of the squadron
located here to join in the search for the broken-
down Pilbarra gives another hint to the Common-
wealth and Maoriland to demand to know why
they pay £250,000 a year towards the naval estab-
lishment. Quite lately two ships were sent hurry-
scurry flying to Torres Straits on a rumor that
someone had seen the smoke of a warship belong-
ingto a friendly Power. Yet no vessel was ready
to go to help avert what might be a terrible
tragedy. The French Admiralty promptly sent a
warship in search from Noumea, though the Pilbarra
is not a French ship, and Australia pays no sub-
sidies to the French navy.
Sydney magistrate Smithers’ refusal, the
other day, to commute for a fine the sentence of
imprisonment (for a month with hard labor)
P as Ised 1 sed by h \ ra on a well-dressed larrikin who
, ' gne Y° llsly f saulted an unoffending cafe
nJJfih; f * P “A nght dlre ? tlon '
2Z; jfe, Melbou . rne was K ahvay *
domm ited J“ 8t after shearing by a mob of wild
J°ung squatters who did just what they pleased,
?„ ntil a sentenced two or three of them
to several months imprisonment for an assault
com " dtted on the landlord of Scott’s Hotel. That
tamed them.
THE STRENUOUS WOMAN.
HE : “ They used to play duets
once.”
SHE: “Oh!”
HE : “ They gave it up
because her end of
the piano ivas
always breaking
down.”
A dying shark is a common crowd-drawing
decoration of fishmongers’ windows in Melbourne.
It gasps its life out for hours, with gaping
hundreds feasting their eyes on the torture.
Sharks are evidently beyond the pale of the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
* . -f * *
Bishop Clarke; of Melbourne, reminds Vic.
Anglicans that it is the custom in England to
make generous “ Easter offerings ” to the clergy.
“The clergy,” he hints, with the delicacy of a
falling smoke stack, “are often the recipients of
handsome gifts, and the Easter offerings afford
opportunities for parishioners to make gifts of
gratitude without ostentation.” The Bishop’s
plea is put forward in the interests of the poor
parson, but poor parsons have poor congregations
as a rule, who can’t afford handsome gifts, and
after all the very poor parson is the natural
complement of the very rich one. If the churches
believed in Christianity there would be no occasion
for the quaint spectacle of a very fat parson
begging for Easter eggs for a very lean one.
* - * T *
This story is told of a doctor in an Aus-
tralian city, who owns a motor, but is not very
expert as a driver. He was travelling down a
city street, when he ran into and capsized a pedes-
trian. He looked behind him, and, seeing the
man still prone, made a circuit and ran back,
intending to stoi> beside and help him. But
the motor shot a yard or two beyond the mark and
hit the man again just as he was about to get up.
The doctor turned his car once more, and was
cautiously stealing near to the prostrate sufferer,
when an excited spectator rushed from the side-
walk, and, shaking the victim, exclaimed “Look
out ! he’s coming at you again ! ” Whereupon
the man scrambled up and started to run. In
this world it’s not sufficient to have good inten-
tions. You must also be able to drive.
* * * *
At a recent North Coast (N.S.W.) agri-
cultural show a woman rider, at the final parade
of prize horses and riders, rode round the ring
with two blue ribbons on her right arm and her
baby on the other.
Maorilapd horses give that State’s Gover-
nors a bad time. Not long since the salute of
guns at the opening of Parliament set Ranfurly
and his carriage going through the Wellington
streets at 40 (or 80) miles an hour. Once a city that
didn’t “know the deference due to a lord,” fined
Onslow’s coachman for furious driving. The
indignant Lord never went to that town any more.
Recently Gov. Plunket’s steeds mistook the
Kilties’ quickstep for an order to charge. They
were pulled up half a block away by some men iii
the crowd. Damage : One broken pole, one jolted
Governor. But Piunket usually makes his pro-
gresses in a motor-car.
* * * *
A weary individual deserted his wife and
children in Melbourne t’other day, and thus noti-
fied the termination of the contract:—
James Patrick Joseph M'Nulty, born Gardiner’s Creek,
South Yarra, aged 4), Kith past Dec. Height sft. 7in.,
weight lOst. 121b5., fighting weight 10st., never intends to
work any more, as I have grown tired.—l remain, Janies
M’Nulty.
The Bench ordered him to keep down to his fight-
ing weight by earning at least 15s. a week for his
family, or, as an alternative, facing hard labor
“ inside.”
THE UNCLEAN “ TATT.’S” TELEGRAM.
If it was wrong to contaminate the postal-boxes it was
equally wrong to contaminate the telegraph wires.—
Clergyman denouncing “ Tatt.’s.”
Terrible effect of a contaminating telegram on a
telegraph-operator. Timely arrival of the
Sanitary Department with appropriate
remedies.
How far off blasphemy is the ‘ ‘ God Save
the King” tacked to Government “proclama-
tions”? When the bushman says “God spare me
days ! ” the parson reproves the sinner and quotes
the Ten Commandments; but when a notice is
issued relating to some money-lending transaction,
and “ God Save the King ” is added (there were
cjlumns of them in last Saturday’s Sydney
pavers), no parson says a word. The missionary
meeting is always sorry for the benighted Thibetan
who grinds prayers out of a machine. Yet every
time a Government proclamation is issued, our
own enlightened printing presses grind out a
prayer which is exactly the mechanical article of
Thibet.
THE LITTLE SPICY BITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now., my wife is all for divorce and the little spicy hits.’
— Mr. Parkyn, in “ The Silver Kin/.''
Judge Walker, in this world of woe
Our newsy joys are very few.
Man gets but little here below
Of matter lie can fondly chew
From journals which engage his mind
As daily into town he flits,
O, can you have the heart unkind
To rob us of the Spicy Bits 1
The dullness of our troubled life
Is brightened by our neighbor’s sins :
We talk Divorce Court with our wife,
The while she puts her hair in pins,
Or when—the children gone to bed—
She diligently sews or knits,
And paints the conversation red
By blushing for those Spicy Bits.
Must virtue seek in vain to know
Exactly how it came to pass
That Mrs. Giddy and her “ co.”
Revealed their wickedness, alas?
Shall ribald bachelors no more
Employ their after-dinner wits
To set the smoke-room in a roar
With riddles, based on Spicy Bits ?
Shall Scandal, at its sweetest source,
Be filtered by a Judge’s law f
Reports of cases in divorce
Be cooked for ms, who like ’em raiv i
In Freedom’s name we answer “No ! ”
Almighty Truth our claim admits—
Man, needing little here below,
Needs all the little Spicy Bits.
VIC.
EUMUND FISHER.
SLEEP SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIC.
When the fire is low
And the light is dim,
Swaying to and fro
Thus she sings to him '.
“ Darling, it is late,
And the Dream-God calls—
Dearest, do not wait,”
Whilst the ember falls.
“ Thrush and blackbird sleep
(Bird and beast andflow’r),
Whilst I vigil keep
Do thou rest an hour.
“ Butterfly and bee
In the garden close
Slumber ; why not thee ?
Little heart, repose !
“ Darling, go to sleep ;
Tell her all thy woes.
Closer, Baby, creep 1
Little heart, repose !
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAE.


Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
T lie changeable Autumn weather is already
beginning to introduce coughs and colds to
thousands of suffering citizens. It is wise to
°PP? se t '^ le inroads of these enemies to health and
efficiency early in order to avoid permanent winter
colds. I or this purpose there is nothing so effective
as that well proven remedy, Arnold’s Balsam, which
speedily cures catarrh, sore throats, chest com-
plaints, etc. Obtainable all chemists. Wholesale;
Arnold’s Balsam Co , 364a Little Collins St. ,.Melb.*
SHORTHAND
Successfully
taught by Mail by
the largest and
most highly
diplomaed shortand instructors in Australasia.
FEES MODERATE. INSTRUCTION INDIVIDUAL.
PROFICIENCY GUARANTEED.
“Home Study” Post Fhek.
STOTT & HOARE’S Business College,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
gs
SILVER
STARCH
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
'T
V
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128=130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
XCITSTGr STREET,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention,
During the past few weeks Queensland
has been mostly in the grip of dengue fever.
Symptoms are very similar to influenza, excepting
that a rash appears all over the body. This year’s
attack is the worst On record. In some cases
whole families were down at once. Doctors differ
as to whether it is infectious, and cannot agree to
suggest a cause. Old and young alike are affected,
and where any constitutional weakness exists,
there the disease takes its seat. All the time
dengue spreads South, and there appears to be no
reason why it should not eventually go into the
other States.
* # * *
An advt. department something between
“Matrimonial” and “ Situations Vacant” is
badly wanted in the Australian dailies;
CURIOUS, VERY.
HOPEFUL : “ Where was daddy born, grandpa ?”
FAMILY PATRIARCH: “In Maoriland, my boy.”
HOPEFUL : “ And where was mother born? ”
FAMILY PATRIARCH : “In West Australia.”
HOPEFUL : “Now, isn’t it funny that ice all three
met over here?"
The committee in Brisbane which has been
begging for money to erect a monument to fallen
farm-burners in B’Africa, is stuck for a few hun-
dred pounds, and desperate appeals have so far
failed. The only “sympathy ” shown is by a
Brisbane pro Boer; who suggests that the money
in hand might with good grace be donated to help
the widows and orphans of S’African Boers who
fell while trying to protect their country.
* * * *
In the poverty-stricken parts of North
Melbourne (and there is no more poverty-stricken
quarter in Australia) there are publicans who
meet the local crying want with a penny beer. It
is called a “ copper,” and contains about a gill.
SOMETHING LIKE LEATHER.
DINER (who has been fighting with an india-rubber steak): “Look here, waiter, you'll have to
bring me something else, I can’t tackle this.”
WAITER (after a careful examination of the article): “No, I can't take it back — you've bent it.”
Again, who finds the money to test cases
intended to drive a hole through the White
Australia policy? Some time ago a Chinaman
named Ah Yick dodged the Customs officers in
Sydney and got to Melbourne. There he was
snapped, and sent to gaol for 14 days by magis-
trate Panton, and ordered to be deported. He
appealed, through barrister Cussen, to Judge
Johnston, who refused to hear the appeal,
alleging he had no jurisdiction. Last week he
engaged barristers Coldham and Ah Kett to get a
mmdamus from the High Court to compel
Johnston, J., to hear the appeal. Now, Ah Yick
is at present growing spling cabbagee on wages in
the Goulburn valley, and his wages would hardly
permit of him hiring expensive lawyers in this
fashion. Does the money come from Hong Kong,
like the forged permits? Or is it the local
Employers’ Union that is so generous ?
» * * *
A couple of children of Nature transpired
at Melbourne City Court lately. One, from the
Mallee or thereabouts, was like the usual Vic-
torian farmer, not half as simple as he looked ;
the other, a sailorman, was genuine simplicity.
The mariner and the cocky fraternised, and
shouted for one another enthusiastically. The
man of binnacles had just begun to love the other
like a brother, when cocky explained that he
had been arrested the night before through being
unable to carry his load properly, and had to face
P.M. Panton at 10 a.m. ; but he also had to go
and see Bent about some seed wheat, or ship a
1 >ad of elephants to India, or something. Would
the sailorm m mind interviewing Panton in his
stead? If he pleaded guilty, being unknown, he
was certain to be discharged with a caution.
The other was quite willing to do so good
a chap a turn. But Panton, P.M,, happened
to be in a mood, and when the sailor man, answer-
ing to the other’s name, had pleaded guilty, he
was promptly fined 10s. or three days, and hustled
away to the cells. An hour or two later cocky
turned up to claim the £1 he had left as bail, when
the flabbergasted watch-house keeper concluded
something was wrong and sought the sergeant in
court. When he returned, cocky had decided to
let his £1 go and save his liberty, and by the time
the released mariner had got outside and was pre-
Earing some strenuous remarks for the simple
ack-blocker, that casual stranger was a mere
speck on the horizon. Yes, there is a lot of genius,
blushing unseen, in the bush.
* * * *
“ Snell ” : I was making inquiries at the
post-office at , and the tired postmaster was
answering to the best of his ability,’when Hocks
returned. It was a hot day, and Hocks was in
his shirt sleeves and carrying his coat, but it was
not the heat of the day that had turned the
selector purple and swamped him in moisture.
He had done a quarter-mile return to the post-
office in something under the record, and he was
hungering for blood. “You infernal scoundrel,”
he roared, shaking a fist like a red-gum stump at
the pathetic official. “You rogue! You robber !
You—you—you brigand! Gimme me money!”
“What's wrong now. Hocks?” asked the post-
master, sadly. “Wrong!” screamed Hocks.
“Wrong! Hear him?” (Re appealed to me.)
“Wrong! Robbery’s wrong. Highway robbery,
an’ thievin’, an’ stealin’, an’ burglary. That’s
what’s wrong. But I’ve got you this
time, an’ be the Lord I’ll gaol you if you
don’t gimme me money.” The postmaster sighed,
and looked sorrowfully at Hocks. “I’m waiting
to know your trouble,” he said. “Well enough
you know it,” raved the noble son of the soil.
“ Who else’s got me post office order but you, but
you’re bowled out this trip. The son writ me last
week to say he was sendin’ that post office order,
so you’re trapped.” “ Did you read your letter?”
asked the postmaster, with a voice like butter
sidling over a half-warm scone. Hocks read his
l itter, and simmered down as he did so, and finally
admitted: “He sez he won’t be sendin’the post
office order till next week.” “ You have a good
deal to put up with in these country post offices,”
sail the depressed postmaster to me as Hocks
passed down the road again.
The medical fraternity of an Australian
provincial city have abiding grief in the fact that
right in the middle of their own particular
quarter looms an undertaker’s establishment.
The fraternity have tried year after year to buy
old Charon out, but he’s not to be moved. He
says the stand is too good a one.
* * * *
Recently the Australian Customs De-
partment seized a case of rings stamped ‘ ‘ 9-carat ”
which, on examination, were found to be brass.
Brass never being sold at per carat, the impudent
intention was evidently to palm them off as gold.
Simultaneously the Customs Department has
issued proclamations prohibiting the importation
-in future of an article traded off on the
public in place of hops, and also of a dele-
terious compound containing picric acid, used in
temperance drinks. Those instances are a re-
minder of the value of the Customs apart from all
Protection benefit.
* * * *
At a wedding, t’other day, in a back-blocks
Maoriland town, some friends were pelting the
couple with rice, when suddenly their spines
chilled as the bridegroom drew a six-shooter on
them. The festive cusses, not knowing that the
weapon was unloaded, fled to the police station,
and the pair departed in peace.
“Edyson ” : Had the privilege of seeing a
North Melbourne push “dealing with” an un-
fortunate the other night. The victim was in-
sulted by one of a party of 30, and replied with a
blow, and instantly the push was down on him,
just as I have seen a score of cowardly greyhounds
down on a cat. There was a sort of human whirly,
with that misguided young man for a pivot, and
arms and legs flourished in the dust for a space of
half-a-minute, and then the push opened out and
sought cover down side streets. For a few seconds
the stranger who had been “dealt with ” staggered
about blindly, bumping his head into the fence,
and then he fell, and was awakened to conscious-
ness in the hospital with the insignia of the boot
all over him.
* » * *
Paris Nesbit, K.C., talking, in Adelaide,
of “The Bureau of Justice,” mentioned an inci-
dent in the case of Myles Flynn as one of the
strongest arguments he had yet found in favor of
a public defender. Flynn was sentenced, with
another, Lawson, to 20 years for a highway
robbery. Lawson, even after he had himself been
found guilty, and when he had all to lose and
nothing to gain by sticking up for Flynn, swore
that he was guilty himself, but that Flynn was
absolutely innocent. The men who did the
robbery had a long and hard horseback ride. In
the gaol Lawson was found to be saddle-galled
from thigh to ankle ; Flynn, who knew nothing of
horses, was unmarked. Yet that most telling
fact, which a trained advocate would have dis-
covered and stressed, wasn’t mentioned. The
authorities knew it; but it wasn’t their business
to mention it. So Flynn got 20 years—and is now
alleged to be completely demented.
Sydney D.T., seizing on the fact that the
G.P.O. has decided to make a somewhat belated
use of the trains south and west, now running as
newspaper trains, to carry early mails, appeals
again for an early northern train, alleging high
motives of patriotism. Of course, the fact is that,
owing to the absence of that train, the Newcastle
Morning Herald and the Maitland Mercury
have managed to make headway and become
creditable journals in appearance, circulation and
power. This the rapacious Sydney dailies cannot
forgive.
* * * *
The case of Rose Hubbard, the Melbourne
dwarf who claims to have murdered her mother,
calls for a prompt amendment of the law as
regards capital offences. The law protects the in-
dividual from being tried a second time on a
murder charge of which she (or he) has been
acquitted. A good law as long as the unconvicted
suspect professes innocence of the crime—a very
bad law if the successful plea of not guilty is sub-
sequently withdrawn. In the former case, the
Law has a free hand to place another suspect on
trial; in the latter case its hands are tied,
and the law that renders itself impotent
to deal with a possible murderer is obviously
wrong. Rose Hubbard’s “confession ” doesn't
Srove her guilt, but it prevents the question from
eing tested in the Criminal Court. It doesn’t
prove that she had no accessory before the fact,
if her self-alleged crime was a fact, yet it seem-
ingly prevents that question also from being
tested. In short, Rose Hubbard’s confession is
an incentive to the arrangement of conspiracies
to murder, whereby each conspirator lessens the
individual chance of conviction, and, if unsuc-
cessfully tried, can ensure the safety of the others
by cheekily confessing to the crime. Obviously,
public interests demand that a person who owns
up to a murder under any circumstances should be
amenable to punishment as a sane felon or a
dangerous lunatic. A sane murderess, snapping
her fingers at the Law, is a hideous absurdity.
* * * *
“F.F.S.” : I thought that another of those
American scientific “discoveries” vvas about due.
The one (B. G/3/’O5) regarding the fertilisation of
the sea-urchin’s eggs artificially is fairly sudden,
but is not nearly so artistic as some past efforts.
It must be five years since a professor, then at
Chicago University, discovered the “microbe of
death.” He extracted it from a Japanese lily,
which was remaining in bloom indefinitely. He
removed it from butterflies, grasshoppers, &c.,
which he had eventually to pulverise with a club.
The Chicago scribe who reported the busi-
ness went into great detail, and even described
the fearsome microbe. Apparently it got loose or
was trodden on, as I have heard nothing of it
since. Then a professor of the same city dis-
covered that the atoms composing minerals were
actually alive. He was then just about to publish
a book with pictures, showing how very much alive
even marble and granite were. I have never seen
the book, and begin to suspect that a Chicago pro-
fessor lives in the office of an enterprising Chicago
newspaper.
GRATITUDE.
POLLO : “ ’Struth, Dina, you're a bonzer; but
didn't y' bring any for yourself?”
A Victorian bench of honorariums lately
considered the case of a “ perfect lady ” who had
philandered with a strange man and picked his
pocket of £2. On the way to the watchhouse she
returned the £2 and offered the victim another £2
to withdraw his accusations. The arresting con-
stable impounded the £4. After sending the lady
to gaol for six months, the Bench declined to return
the stranger his £2, consigning it instead to the
poor-box. As a fine for talking to that sort of
lady, some moralists will approve of the confisca-
tion. But isn’t this a temptation to future victims
to compound a felony ?
THE LADY HELP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
jiklu.
An artless Miss, she took the place
Without clue hesitation :
For all Her airs of prosp’rous grace,
And hint of stylish station,
She bore in ev’ry feature, trace
Of stint and pale privation.
So gratefully she booked the berth,
And passed into possession,
Most resolute to prove her worth,
To look for no concession,
To be the sweetest thing on earth,
An angel in repression.
tier toil began. She taught all day
The family in stages—
Dead languages, piano play,
Philosophy in pages—
The alphabet, the needle way,
The fairy lore of ages.
Not this alone, but exercise
In drill and forms athletic —
T. 11 calisthenics drew her sighs,
Then plied the tasks phonetic,
Or in the Scriptures strained her eyes
For passages ascetic.
With body fagged and heart depressed,
Her spirit bending under,
.She rocked the baby, and caressed
The youngster whipped for plunder,
Or, finding two in fight possessed,
Just tore the brats asunder.
At intervals she darned, or took
Her share of garden-pruning,
Or manicured, or helped to cook
While Mary Anne was swooning ;
If crept to bed with pallid look
Was slandered for “ such mooning.”
On party nights she flew about,
The rooms decked out with flower,
The salads dressed-she left no doubt
Of how she spent each hour,
For there she slaved till strength gave out
And almost all will-power.
Oh, Lady Drudge ! You are quite near
To virtue transcendental
To fag for twenty pounds a year,
In body stress, and mental,
To be the don, the grub, the seer,
The mild, the monumental !
E.S.
POOR GIRL!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lured by the sweet hypocrisy
Of smiling lips and yielding hands,
I offered what I had to give—
My gold, my lands.
And ever since, the gaping world—
When, martyr-faced, in jewelled fur
She walks moek-msekly by my side—
Sheds tears for her.
But when some fool—“ Gad ! what a shame !
That poor girl wed to that old brute 1"
Slant-eyed she smiles ; at least she is
Not destitute.
N.S.W.
A. P.


CHARLES
HEIPSIECK^
CHAMPACHE
u.
vintage
189 S
«=>
The Charm of Beauty. “ Valaze” is not a
make-up, but a food which builds up the tissues and
nourishes the skin; removes freckles, wrinkles, sun-
burn, sallowness, &c., and enables a woman to retain
youthful freshness until advanced age. It takes only
a few minutes to apply at night, and the only
trace of it next day is the wonderful improvement it
has wrought to the skin. After once using it you will
feel absolutely satisfied that its value is worth three times
the money. But beware of substitutes. Valaze—small
jar 3s. 6d., large 6s. ; posted 6d. extra. Valaze Face
Powder, three tints, absolutely pure, hygienic, and con-
tains no lead, chalk or bismuth, 2s. box. Valaze Herbal
Complexion Soap is unequalled for keeping the face and
hands in perfect condition—lasts six months —2s. Valaze
preparations obtainable W. 11. Soul, Pitt-street, Sydney
Civil Service, all leading chemists, or direct from Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, 243 Collins-street, Melbourne.*
It is evident that all Mr. Reid’s followers
do not intend to submit to his proposal to intro-
duce nothing contentious in the coming session of
the Federal Parliament. But then those dis-
satisfied with the do-nothing policy are not in
office.
A CHOICE
TABLE D’HOTE DINNER
is served Every Evening at
BAUMANN’S CAFC
162 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
0
,ty
“eEAVCNETTES
isK / ' RE t «e|deal Fabrics
RAINCOATS.
t
1 he JNew
Corsets
For Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . . .
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 21, 1905.
My Dear Arini.
An up-country boarding-house-keeper at a
pleasure resort had a curious application from a
bridal couple the other day. The groom was a
pronounced Yiddisher, and the bride, too, was of
the people who were Chosen in the days when the
Chooser had less experience of human nature. The
fond couple dallied on the door step, and wanted
to know the terms. They were not going to have
any reckless expenditure on their honeymoon.
“Six shillings a day, or 30s. a week apiece,” re-
plied the landlady. “But,” said the groom,
“how mooch for yoost de bedroom ? Dat vat ve
vant —yoost de bed. Ye only stay for dree days—
den ve go back.” “Six shillings a day apiece,”
repeated the landlady. “But —but,” cried the
groom, spreading out his hands, “don’t I dell you
ve vant yoost de bed ! Nodding to eat. Ve haf
enough to eat mit us to last us de dree days vat ve
stay here ! ” And he displayed a parcel of fried
fish, pickles, and eggs, which, from its size,
argued that they could certainly stand a siege for
that time. No business resulted.
The lady members of the British Empire League
had a great flag-flap, on an afternoon last week, at
Darlinghurst Superior Public School. The State
Governor was an accessory, and cut the string of
a cloth that concealed the Union Jack. The
children sang delightfully, and their elders made
the inevitable speeches around the flag. I begin
to suspect that a good deal of “ loyalty ” is merely
the desire to hear oneself talk.
British Empire League ladies ought to read
Arnold White’s current articles in English press
and magazines on “ The Triumph of Inefficiency ”
(in English war departments). He says “it will
be 1907 before we are re-armed.” British guns
were outclassed by those of the Boers in 1900 and
British guns of to-day are those of the Boer war.
True, this only refers to the army, and not to the
navy, but on the whole perhaps it would be wise
not to flap too confidently until after 1907.
The girl children—there must have been many
hundreds of them —on whom the League inflicted
its speeches were more interesting than the talk,
if only from the point of view of the alleged
darkening of our race. Mezzos predominated, the
rest were real brunettes and a few pure blondes.
They had thick mats of hair, and few wore spec-
tacles.
I find that my inclusion of the late Mr. Graham
Berry in the list of notable Australians who
had married a deceased wife’s sister was
incorrect. The Victorian statesman’s first wife
was nee Miss Blanco ; he married her in England.
His second wife (now the widow) was a daughter
of Mr. J. B. Evans, of Melbourne. I much
regret the mistake, for I hear that it has been the
cause of some pain to the surviving relatives of the
deceased gentleman.
To-morrow the Orontes will carry off Lady
Rawson for a six months’ holiday. As they say
in the ’cellodrama, “Broken Melody,” this is
only “adieu, and not farewell forever.” The P.
and O. liner goes out a full ship. Soprano Par-
kina and her company will travel thereon. Two
of the artistic Geach girls—sisters of Mr. Edwin
Geach—also go hence for half-a-year’s ramble.
Captain Seddon, eldest son of the Maoriland
Premier, who has been feted and fed during
a brief stay in Sydney, also goes by the
Orontes, but only as far as Melbourne,
where he will stay a fortnight. Governor
Rawson (with Captain Wilson, of the com-
plexion) accompanies his consort as far as
Fremantle. Next Saturday will arrive Governor-
General Northcote, spouse and jewels, and Syd-
neysiders with British Empire League souls had
better have their praying mats handy, because tbe
flag will float for adoration early in the forenoon.
Sydney, during these early Lenten days is about
as attractive as a mountain of slag. Women are
saying their prayers and going swimming. A
friend tells me that one of the very few feminines
she has ever seen to look better in salt-water
environment than in any other is the girl whose
romantic marriage to the Vicomte de Satge St.
Jean is to take place to-morrow.
Ada Crossley’s engagement to a young Adelaide
man, Dr. Muecke, son of the German consul there,
is causing comments. Ada is said to be worth
quite £25,000, and she is thrifty also. She and he
met on board the Wakool, on their way to
S’Africa. Another proof that the husband is a
marine product. How is it that singers don’t
marry marquises or titled wealthy guardsmen, as
do dancers, soubrettes and gaiety-girls? Per-
haps because they are more independent, and
allow love instead of the desire for a title to rule.
A local acquaintance of Dr. Muecke says
that he is a popular, clever man of about seven-
and-twenty. Ada is such a decorative woman,
and is blessed with such pretty manners, that the
wonder is she has escaped capture for so long.
Anyhow, it is a compliment to Australia that she
has selected an Australian-born mate. Besides
being German consul in Adelaide, Muecke, sen.,
is in most of S. Australia’s big financial schemes,
and is a director of the big Broken Hill Pro-
prietary mine.
That is a beautiful, classic column of grey
granite which ex-State Premier See unveiled last
week to the memory of his late wife. It is more
correct than the inscription : “Sacred to the
memory of Lady Charlotte Mary,” &c. Titles, of
course, don’t matter much—their omission or
wrongful assumption ; but one has to be at least
an earl’s daughter, according to the rules which
govern.these silly matters, to be “ Lady Jane,” or
“Lady Mary,” or “ Lady Charlotte.”
Borne of the hats worn at matinees of “ The
Orchid ” ought to bring the wearers within scope
of arrest for obstructing the sight-of-way. Last
Saturday two grown-ups, possibly sisters, sat in
the circle wearing immense black hats on the backs
of their heads. If they were hatted from the tops
of their intellects the unfortunates behind them
would have had a chance of seeing over the erec-
tion. As it was, the view of the stage was as
thoroughly shut-out as if they had opened
umbrellas.
Dr. Taylor-Young, who left for London via
M.L. on Saturday by the Waikare, was fare-
welled by members of the Highland Society with
haggis and quotations from Burns’s poetry. By
the Waikare went also Mr. J. C. D. Jones, head
of the Eastern Extension Telegraph Co., to boil
himself at Rotorua.
A good looking Victorian girl, who was, with her
sister, in the “Orchid” show when it budded in
Sydney, has become engaged to a gold-dusted
man. Marriage will take place in Melbourne
presently, and the groom, bride and sister will go
to Europe.
Mrs. W. MacMillan has been elected vice-
president of the Women’s Hospital in place of
Mrs. A. G. Ralston, resigned. Glancing over
annual report of the Hospital one is struck by the
small death-rate. The great need, a larger build-
ing, seems no nearer fulfilment.
Seventeenth of Ireland this year seemed to have
had less than the usual amount of emerald about it.
Piety, politics, processions and sports filled the
Town Hall. Choir of the combined R.C. schools
made a great success of the choruses, and Messrs.
Rosenthal and Stannis Leslie sang bright green
songs with fine voices. The Cardinal and his
coadjutor were purple patches in the front seats,
and the Redmonds and R. C. society were in line.
A few local women intend to get through the
ashen season per motor car. They will hire a car
and tour through places that the railways do not
tap and that the coach knows not. One of the
women breaks out literary now and then, and may
put the tour in print/ Her companions carry
kodaks. During this summer Mr. and Mrs. J ack
Want, their daughters, and two friends did an
extensive tour in their big “ Gladiator ” car, and
saw fair dawns and rose-red eves in remote
coastal places. They went as far as Eden in one
direction. The Lachlan Beaton,s have gone to
Hobart to do some motoring, and the American
visitors, the Gliddens, are about to “do” the
Blue Mountains. Next Saturday the Todmans,
of Strathfield, hold a motor car “at home’’for
the visitors.
Mrs. Maclurcan’s Cookery 800k —sixth edition
—has come to hand, with a neat little preface that
says the majority of the recipes are of her own
invention, and that a few were bought or given
her by friends. “ The greatest man of the future
will be the Columbus of the kitchen,” says a
writer in a recent Fortnightly, and that would
make a capital foreword for a cookery book.
Food, its preparation and relation to health (and
disease), is now acknowledged to be of such vast
importance that a good cook-book should be looked
upon as a work of religion. In fact, I look forward
to a church of the future that will beatify the
man who can make a perfect omelette.
Mention of diet reminds me of that weird
looking musician who was in Sydney for a
month or so, and who is now reported as killed
and eaten by New Guinea natives. He used to
tell that he left his native Germany because he
couldn’t get a sufficient variety of nuts for Ins
dietary. Maybe it was whilst in the quest of the
perfect nut that his fate met him. The natives
must have thought of the Arabian Nights feasts,
of lamb fed on pistachios, as they ate him. Every-
body who considers the poor cannibal should adopt
a nut diet.
Mr. Arthur Cpllingridge, artist, who leaves
Sydney for a trip to Europe next week, was
entertained at dinner by his friends on Saturday
night at Baumann’s Cafe. There was a representa-
tive crowd of artists, sprinkling of front-rank
medical men, journalists and the like and much
jollity. The many good qualities of Mr. Colling-
ridge were emphasised by Lister-Lister, J. D.
Fitzgerald, W. Macleod, Percy Spence and many
others. Then citoyen Collingridge trumpeted the
Marseillaise, and, as the gathering was mostly of
the “Royal” Art Society, it followed with “ Rule
Britannia ” by way of antidote to the bane.
Arthur Collingridge, his brother George, with
W. Macleod, J ulian Ashton, Piguenit and
Alfred Clint were among the first founders of
the Art Society in N.S.W., and for nearly
a quarter of a century Collingridge has painted,
and taught, and got occasionally angry, in the
cause of Art. English by birth, he is French by
training and affection, and his first flight will be
to Paris—a fact which Souter stressed amusingly
on the menu with a sketch of Collingridge as an
old-man kangaroo on the boulevards.
You won’t realise how decorative is the sweet-
pea until you see it reproduced in corticelli silks
on a damask tablecloth. Mrs. Ernest Favenc has
recently embroidered one for Mrs. Macken, of
Longueville. At the corners of the e! th are
long-handled flower-baskets, embroide.ed in
russet silks. Sprays of sweet-peas in beautiful
shades of mauves, pinks, and ambers fall about
the baskets, and the same flower design runs with
true-lovers’ knots in shades of green all around the
cloth. The centre-piece, a kind of white-silk
muslin, carries the same design on a minor scale.
The ant’-barmaid agitation is being carried to a
practical point in Sydney. This week a barmaid
in a waterside hotel was shot and dangerously
woynded by a customer.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Private Secretary Fitzpatrick quits the V.R.
service almost at once. For the future he
intends to try squatting, and is said to have
notions also of a political career. Fitzpatrick
doesn’t suffer from diffidence ; politics ought to be
in his line.
“The camera-man becomes more than a bore—
he is a virulent pest. He goes along to the racing
or polo fete, critically estimating the quality and
cash-quantity of every individual. When he
lights on a group that satisfies his fastidious sense
he plants the implement of reflection in position and
waits his opportunity. Some resent this ; others
pose patently for the snapper. Seemingly, they
like to be snapped, thinking, perhaps, that one
good snap may help to bring about another.
“The most creditable thing Toorak has done
for a decade is the contribution to a fund, whereby
the aged mother and the sister of the best-loved
man that ever died in this State may have the
wherewithal to live in comparative ease and
comfort. Not till his death did it transpire that
with him the income of their home ended. The
fund is being privately raised. No one knows
what the other gives, and that the sum already in
hand is large speaks well for Toorak.
“Hotel proprietors were not, after all, taken
down by that military swell with the haw-haw
airs. There is a certain Freemasonry among the
leading hotel proprietors in the States, and when
one has been fooled by an imposing personage
with a monocle, or a hyphen, or a family carbuncle,
he sends on a wire or letter of caution to his
brother managers in other States. Then the swell
is blocked. One Melbourne hotel-conductor has
served writs on scores of visiting tourists, to say
nothing of impecunious aides.
“Miss Florence Robertson—the tall, good-
humored niece of Hercules (Brig. - Colonel)
Robertson—is booked to enter the matrimonial
lists with a Mr. Cecil Marsh, of Singapore, next
month. The ’groom-elect is English, and stayed
awhile in this State last year. Miss Robertson is
voted one of the brightest of the girls in the
military set. The charmer and her aunt sail to
India for the nuptials. Melbourne friends have
been giving Miss Robertson some cheery fare-
wells.
“The nurse scores again. A rich widower 'is
about to marry the Nightingale who so tenderly
nursed his late lamented wife. It is everything
to be right on the spot with your sympathy when
the wounded heart of the widower still bleeds.
“ S’Australians do not seem to be fully
alive to the comfort of having as Governor a man
who likes to smoke a pipe and get his business in
the city done as far as possible in a sac suit and a
boxer hat —who is, in effect, six feet odd of virile
manhood and good humor. The Holy City with
the sleep of the hot summer still in its slow eyes,
looks on the brisk Vice-Regal Le Hunte without
due appreciation. Yet one Adelaide girleen waxed
enthusiastic last week over the bright Governor.
‘ He is such a healthy, energetic, fine fellow with no
airs and, by the beard of Moses ! so much alive ! ’
“ The guest of the day at the Browns’ Narrama
tea-party was the Hon. Mrs. Hanbury Tracy—a
tourist got up effectively in that yellowish-embroi-
dered linen that is called banana-fibre up in
Kanakaland. It is reckoned a trump card for a
hostess to have a visiting honorable or a casual
baroness, or any other specially-labelled flutterer,
at her house.
Tulle dresses, like so many frost-gemmed webs,
are the glory of the evening hour. If you only
have a flower-stem throat and a light-enough head
and sufficient coloring, there is a chance of your
looking like a fresh garden-bloom gathered at the
dawn.
“On account of Guv’nor Reggie starting off for
the country of tall gums last Monday, his wife
presented the trophies to the polo scorers at
Kooyong, and passed out the tin-pots with much
more suavity of smile than he is ever capable
of exhibiting. After the ceremony the Paynes of
plenty once more tea’d a vast wool gathering.
“ The senior scorer of polo week was Mr. ‘ Jim ’
Osborne, who has kept the name of the big clan
forward for 30 years by his sport championships in
running, racing, hunting, jumping and polo. He
is now 50, but looks a hard, ‘ goey ’ 40—not a
summer beyond. Every year he returns to the
Geelong Grammar School to lick all the other old
boys at the annual sporting contests. Half the
silver in his Stony Park quarters bears the brand
of presentation, with the sporty one’s deeds of
prowess inscribed.
“The story of the tea-room girls who caused
a large, sudden strike in the largest bun-coop in
this city has two sides. Two or three weeks ago,
oneside—that of the girls—was told ; now it is the
employer’s turn: The matron in question was
the first person in these parts to exploit style for
tray service. Her fashionable girls reckoned
they might bear the bun round without any loss
of dignity. They hoped, as their employer hoped,
to raise the occupation to a post of high honor and
distinction in the eyes of the eating-world. They
accordingly polished up their thatches and made
their appearance as flne as they could. Their
salaries were good, and their meals, at the em-
ployer’s expense, also good. Moreover, their
hours were light, and they were given every con-
sideration. One day, when they were asked to
attend to some small pantry matter—preparing
the tea-pots and the trays —the indignity of the
thing burst upon them. Hot, scalding tears
rushed to their eyes, and there and then they left
in a body.
“Next week the Harborville fashionables will
have Madame Masseran in their midst to consider
their forms divine, or otherwise. The French
artiste holds up her little plump bands in horror
at the sacrifice of shape by lovely woman, who
claps her body into a ready-made case of armor
irrespective of physical differences. Every form
has its individuality, Madame insists. There are
peculiarities to be dealt with, weaknesses to be
treated, faults of the outline to be coaxed into
symmetry. Grace Palotta still is corseted per
post and photographs and measurements by
Madame Masseran, and a baronet’s wife, now in
the Cold Country, is supplied by her with the in-
dividuality stay, and all our Cream put their con-
trary outlines into her care.
“The G. Fairbairns are returning from
a hurried gad over Europe. The return of
their fair daughter—Alison—is a source of joy to
all who sadden at sight of a r/iultitude of plain
fashionables. Melbourne’s beauty just now is
mostly found behind the lace and haberdashery
counters, or retailing frocks (in both senses) some-
where up on the sky-scraper storey. See the
black-garbed legions of girl pour from the throats
of the big chiffon stores every evening ! In walk,
deportment, looks and chic they out-distance the
fair, idle tribe they toil for.
“Surgeon Fitzgerald has received word that
his son-in-law —Commander Lumsden—has gone
up to Sir Hugo Pearson at the Nore, to fill the
post of flag-commander.
“There is one gay Government House dresser
in the Commonwealth. Tassy’s Lady Edeline
Strickland flashes out (Slovvbartians write me) in
gorgeous raiment. Other fair Exes, seldom ven-
ture beyond black and white effects—but then
they are mostly Mauds or Theresas, or even more
irreconcilable Cecilias. A lady named Edeline
must, in the nature of things, dress brightly.
“It is evident from the way Miss Rose Mus-
grove is ‘making up’ for her ‘Killiecrankie ’ rble
that she strains to pass for the scornful Gibson
girl. Her face is made to appear as oval as an
egg—her eyebrows are much aslant, and her lids
are darkened to induce a heavy effect above the
narrow eye-slits. Profile, the nose is ruled too
long and straight for the Gibson charmer, who is
most often retrousse ; but, full face, Rose arrives
thereabouts. If she didn’t endeavor to match her
tones to the other artificial efforts, she’d do her
part more credit.
“Mrs. Willie Manifold, the brightest and most
energetic of the western wool dames, took things
into her brisk hands this March carnival and led
the frivolous to definite gaiety. Her scheme for
the Country Ladies’ Hop turned out to be the
brightest affair that has enlivened the March
season for many a year. She further led in one or
two fizzy suppers, and finally whirled a small
favored flock off to her luxurious station home.
“ Other mummers—other manners ! Kissy
Farkoa, when he wasn’t ecstacising over the
sentimental letters of smitten Misses, used to
devote odd hours to embroidering cushions. With
soft white hands he plied needle and thread and
wrought girly-girly designs. Julius Knight looked
round a bit and wondered what he’d do in spare
hours. He took the wood-carving fever and
paraded his industry on the quarter-deck of the
steamer when the co. was crossing from Maoriland
to Australia. There don’t seem to be enough
parlor games to keep the stage going. A society
to promote healthy, manly amusements among
male mummers ought to be started by some
humanitarian.
“All recent Big Smoke letters tell of the
intense cold. Two Melb. girls a-gad write out
their horror of the Cold Country. The chill of the
black city of London depresses the most opti-
mistic. ‘ I have been taking my afternoon-tea in
a lighted and heated room. It would seem that
the night had begun. From my window I see
only a blank wall of impenetrable fog or smoke, or
whatever the blessed thing is that makes the
atmosphere as material a thing as a travelling-rug.
0, for some sunshine ! Have you ever been in a
mortuary chapel on a cold day ? Well that is the
feeling one has in these long, dark, unbroken days
of gloom.’
“ Madame Anita Sutherland 1 at-liomed ’ a large
circle of the musical at her Collins-street flat last
Wednesday. The best things in the impromptu
programme were a choice Spanish classic and an
Italian aria, supplied by the hostess herself.
“ The most original practical joke played by the
irrepressible Landale girls enlivened almost the
last of their appearances here. A smart matron
was being given a surprise party —which is
Society’s excuse of late to get noisily and spon-
taneously gay—and the Landales were marked
down as the suppliers of poultry. Other sur-
prisers were told off to furnish the vegetables,
winey trifles, and various fixings. The Landales
arrived late, and they brought the poultry—
alive 1 Out of a huge basket fluttered three or
four fat hens and a big, bold rooster. The sud-
denly-liberated birds were just as much in com-
motion as the Toorak crowd. ‘We thought we’d
make it a real surprise party,’ remarked one Early -
Victorian sister, pleasantly, when the fowls were
basketed again and quiet was restored.
“A widower of this State has introduced a
novelty. On re-marrying, the other day, he took
his two little children (of the first marriage) on
the honeymoon trip. He meant well, and soft-
hearted friends shed tears of strange emotion at
the scheme. But, on the tour, the plan proved
an utter and horrible failure. Widowers are so
guileless ! Perhaps to make up for the guileful-
ness of the widow.
“A Melb. society paper described a leading
dame’s hair to be ‘ef sunburnt straw.’ ‘Hat’
was the word, unless some subtle spite was in-
tended. Another weekly, the other day, described
a mayoress as ‘ being alive ’ with jet. ‘ Benga-
line ’ jet was, of course, intended.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


BILE IN THE BLOOD.
Dr. Williams' Pink Pills Cure Biliousness.
“ M~Y stomacli grew so weak,” said Mrs.
W| Mary Doyle, George-street, Burwood,
JLTJL Sydney, “that at last nothing would
agree with me. Every little while I
had a terrible bilious attack. Biliousness seemed
to be right in my system. My blood was poisoned,
and nothing was able to set me right till I took
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.”
Biliousness comes from bile, and bile comes
from the blood. Common sense says that a blood
disease like that can be cured by nothing but a
blood medicine like Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Purgatives can’t cure Biliousness because they
can’t touch the blood that makes the bile. Pur-
gatives only gallop through the bowels and leave
the liver weaker than ever.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don’t act on the bowels
at all. They do only one thing, but they do it
well—they actually make new blood. New pure
red blood is the only thing that can settle the
stomach, drive out the bile, brace up the liver,
and cure your Biliousness. Take Mrs. Doyle’s
case, for instance :
“My appetite disappeared, and I had to force
mvself to eat,” Mrs. Doyle continued. “Often
when things disagreed with me, the perspiration
stood out on my face, and I had a bout of vomit-
ing. My head was heavy* and achy, and I know
my blood was filled with bile.
“ Gradually I went from bail to worse. There
was a dull, gnawing pain just under ray breast
bone. The least food made me feel as if I had
gorged myself with an indigestible dinner. For
days before an attack I would feel as limp as a rag.
“ My nerves went to pieces,” Mrs. Doyle went
on to say, “and my heart was all upset. The
least thing brought on a sick headache. As
for my back, it was always aching. I took so
many medicines without getting any good from
them that I gave up all hope at last. I became
thoroughly down-hearted, and felt that life was
not worth living.
“At last I made a start with Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. The first box didn’t seem to have any
effect on me. But before I was through the third
box I felt a little better. My head grew clearer,
and I lost that heavy feeling after meals. Soon
they made my stomach sweet and strong, and
cured all my headaches and backaches. At last
they brought me back to perfect health and good
spirits. I haVe never had a bilious attack since,
and I never felt better that I do to-day, so Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills have cured me for good. ’
Anyone else subject to Biliousness can be cured
just as surely as Mrs. Doyle if they will start with-
a dose of salts and then take a good course of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They don’t cure one
attack only—they cure for good. They don’t
bother with mere symptoms. They strike straight
at the root of the trouble in the blood. And bad
blood is the root of all common diseases like-
anaemia, indigestion, headaches, lumbago, rheu-
matism, sciatica, nervousness, neuralgia, general,
weakness, decline, consumption (in the early
stages), and the special secret ailments that affect
growing girls and women when their blood-
becomes weak and irregular.
If you want to know whether Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills will suit your special case or not, write
for free medical advice t® the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., Sydney. By sending 2s 9d. for one box
or 15s. 3d. for six boxes to this address you can-
order the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
m
WO*WILLIAMS * W
'<§ Mi
'ills
FOR
ALE
EOPLE
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Seddon has hinted, in public speech,
at “being called to London to assist in the
counsels of the Empire.”
G. H. Reid is just now looking only half
himself; he suggests merely a quarter-Premier.
Office, on the terms he holds it, does not prove
sweet.
N-S.W. Minister for Works Lee and
Customs Minister M'Lean are federated. Mr.
Lee’s son is married to Mr. M‘Lean’s daughter.
English Poet Laureate Austin is preparing
to visit Maoriland for a holiday acquaintance with
the “ wonderful scenery he has heard so much of.”
As he has relatives in Sydney, he will probably
drop over to N.S.W.
The sassiety women of Hobart are over-
heard to admire Lord Nortlicote volubly because
he has “ such a nice Japanesy look.”
Recalled now that Czar Nicholas, when he
was the Czarovitch, visited Japan, and a Japanese
fanatic attacked him. His companion, Prince
George of Greece, described what followed in
three words: “ Then Nicky ran.”
There are three brothers in Melbourne-
one a physician, a second a priest, the third a
policeman; between them they should be equal
to most of the emergencies of life.
A N.S. Wales Methodist minister has been
called to the local Bar. He does not intend to
retire from the ministry at present. When the
reverend legal gentleman finds briefs plentiful he
will possibly give up sermons.
Justice Holroyd, of Victorian Supreme
Court, who occasionally flashes into an indignant
denial of the pet prophecy of the Argus that he
intends to retire, sometimes walks from town
to his home in Alma-road, St. Kilda, though past
his 75th year.
The Inchiquin girl who has married Mar-
coni is a grand niece of William Smith O’Brien,
who spent a few years in Van Diemen’s Land
for his share in the Irish ’4B rebellion. -
The lady is also lineally descended
from Major Finucane, a Botany Bay
official in the days between Governor
Bligh’s suspension and Governor
Macquarie’s arrival.
FRIVOLITY.
FARMER : “ Don't be
alarmed, ma’am. That cow wouldn't ’urt a
fly—she is only ployful."
INDIGNANT OLD LADY (who has just had a hot
burst aeross the paddock): “ I never played
with cows in my life, fellow, and I don't
intend to begin now."
Explorer Gregory, now 84 years of age,
still attends Q. Leg. Council pretty regularly.
His voice is weak and generally inaudible. But
his vote counts.
Dead, at Sydney, aged 73, W. S. Hoddle,
one of the last of the early wood-engravers. He
was a prominent Sydney Mail illustrator in the
old wood-block days, before the new “process”
work placed his art on the shelf.
Latest addition to the ranks of Victorian
commercial travellers is a full-blooded Chinaman,
Lim Yue. On a first-class all-lines yearly ticket,
Lim Yue travels with a bland smile on his face
and orders for furniture in his bag.
Died of paralysis, at Ballarat (Vic.),
William Nixon, aged 71, one of the founders and
many years chairman of the Stock Exchange
there. Ham, Lamb, and Shepparde seem to be
the only survivors of that original band.
There was the other day a horrible mis-
print in a S. Aus. up-country paper, which
announced that J ohn Greedy Jenkins had seized
the Agent-Generalship. The other papers, which
can’t make such good slips, spell it Greeley.
Seemingly the young husband of a rich
lady tourist lias been “taken down” for £2OOO of
the lady’s coin by a party of spielers who had
followed him out from England. Wonderful how
money circulates after it has passed into the hands
of a susceptible widow !
An Australasian club is being formed
among the undergrads of Cambridge University,
the object being to meet once or twice a term and
to have an annual dinner. Altogether there are
about 30 Australasians (of whom nearly half are
Maorilanders) at Cambridge.
Died, aged 76, Augustus Reeves, the oldest
settler on Kangaroo Island (S.A.). He was the
son of a Tasmanian pioneer, who, as manager for
the V.D.L. Co., selected 100,000 acres near Circu-
lar Head. Reeves, jun., went to Kangaroo Island
53 years ago as its first postmaster.
Tom Hassall, the N.S.W. ex-Minister for
Lands who was so enriched by the death of a
maiden aunt, is now, it is said, keeping a pub. at
a small coastal town, a few miles from Durban.
“ He professes a great dislike for Australia, and
avoids all Australians as much as possible.”
An old Brighton (Vic.) resident’s yarn
about Premier Bent:—
Tommy was rate-collector for Brighton when he made
what was regarded in Cabbagetown as the biggest joke cf
the century, by setting up for Parliament against George
Higinbotham. Shortly before the election, one of Bent’s
canvassers (he was just about Bent’s figure) called
on me and wept copiously. He said that Bent was
a poor man, and had been a blessed fool to put up
his hard-earned bit of money against a dead cert. Had
just completed his canvass, and was sure that Bent would
lose his deposit, which would mean ruin. Would I give
him my vote? It couldn’t hurt Higinbotham—and it
would help Bent to save his money. I didn’t intend
voting at all, for nothing seemed safer than Higin-
botham’s seat; but I felt sorry for poor Bent, and voted
to save his deposit. When the numbers went up with
Tommy on top, I went home half-believing that I should
wake up in the morning rid of a rank delusion. Dis-
covered later that that canvasser had systematically
toured the electorate with the same yarn and weep ; and
bad successfully bluffed scores into voting to save “ a
poor man’s hard-earned money.”
About the personalities of a somewhat
notable Cabinet:—
Premier Morgan, a journalist, is, perhaps, the most
dignified Premier in Australia ; he still retains the
manner he imbibed while Speaker. Treasurer Kidston,
the most democratic of the team, was a bookseller, is
bluff and candid, and preserves his native Scotch instinct,
to the extent of keeping a weather eye always on the
bawbees. Home Secretary Airey was a school-teacher ;
is consequently methodical, but not very pliable ;
Bohemian in style, didactic in .con versation. Bell,, of the
Lands, educated at Oxford, absorbed a distinctly English
Johnnie style of speaking, but his manner improves on
acquaintance ;hemakes a point of yarning to the unwashed.
Education Barlow, deep-chested and round-shouldered to
the extent of a dromedary hump, has lost his volubility
because he recognises that public men mostly sin against
the clock. Formerly a bank manager, he has made
money, and shows no disposition to return to the ranks
of the Salvation Army, although he shuns functions of a
worldly kind. Attorney-General Blair, who declares his
income at the Bar was greater than his Cabinet pay,
speaks deliberately and forcefully ; is courteous as a shop-
keeper. Agriculture Denham, skilled in produce ques-
tions, looks stern and seldom smiles, rather grizzly-faced,
but liked amongst members and officials.
The imported aide-de-camp is apt to show
his superiority in these feahful cawlonies by the
multitudes of his hyphens.
Just now Australia is extra-
ordinarily blessed by dou-
ble-barrelled personages.
There is Captain Dor-
rien-Smith and Capt.
Cottrell - Dormer,
gilded youths
who hyphenate
with full
legal war-
rant —mo-
dest youths
withal, for
their full
names are
Smith-
Dorrien-
Smith and
Upton - Cot-
trell - Dormer.
Then there is
Captain Byng-
Stephens and Cap-
tain Eulke-Greville,
whose hyphens, like
those of Stewart-Bal-
main, Hammett-Share,
Bulkeley-Johnston, and
Harrison-Smith, are not
so well known to Debrett.
“ Adelaide ” ; Curious
that Guy Boothby did little
or nothing in the drama.
All his early bent was that
way. One evening, at Ade-
laide Bijou, he staged a
programme entirely made
up of one-act pieces of his
own. Also, he acted in them
all, and rather well—espe-
cially in one case as a blind
man. The first time I ever,
saw him he was giving a
whole evening, single-handed,
in a large hall, as “ Professor”
something thought - reading,
recitation, singing, conjuring, a
bit of each in turn. He must have been under 20
at the time, but want of self-confidence was neve r
his weakness.
The steamer Eastern, which left Sydney
on 22nd March, carries to Port Darwin the new
Government Resident, Judge Herbert, “Geo-
logy ” Brown, and a party who are to prospect the
Territory for minerals on behalf of the State; and
Mitchell, M.P., and Sudden Solomon, who are
travelling on election business.
That bright and expensive young Mel-
bourne lady, whose valueless-cheque floating
career suddenly ended at Brighton, and who is
now the guest of the State, told, as one of her
fairy tales, that she was Thomas Bent’s ward, and
that the Bellow was threatening to hand her over
£lO,OOO, just to go on with, at any moment.
AMBIGUOUS.
WIFE : “ You remember that man , Brown, whose wife died three months ago. Well, he's
gone and married again.”
HUB. : “ Great Scott! Some wives do have luck , don't they?”
Governor Talbot: “ I dislike to hear people
talking about themselves solely as Australians. I
say we are all brothers.” What would he think
of the Australian who went to England and
uttered an equally foolish opinion about English
people talking of themselves solely as English ?
Can the long Vic. Talbottle tell us of a people
anywhere on earth, or anywhere in history, who
were worth a hang, who consented to swamp their
identity as he would have Australians do ?
It takes a lot of red-tape to right a little
wrong in the Vic. civil service. Some 18 years
ago, the name of Mr. W. Burston, a North Mel-
bourne State school teacher, was first on the list
for promotion, but, by some mistake, two other
names were placed above his. Since then, Mr.
Burston has agitated for his rights, and his case
has been before several Ministries; but he has
never had any satisfaction. Now, after many
years, Bent’s Ministry is going to introduce an
Act of Parliament to advance the aggrieved
teacher from the third grade to the first, which he
would have reached by this time if it had not been
for the misplacing of the names 18 years ago.
Seems that Mr. Bruce Smith is amusing
his leisure by crying “stinking fish” in the
Indian papers. Some “Sydney Corre-
spondent ” is flooding the press of
Hindustan with denunciations of White
Australia, and suggestions to the In-
dian Government to interfere with our
immigration laws; and one Indian
editor gave the name of the writer as
Bruce Smith. Are there two Bruce
Smiths, or is that the patriotic work
of Bruce Smith, M.H.B. ?
Ex-Minister W. M. Hughes had
a riding aocident last week, and is in-
valided with a broken collar-bone. Hughes,
when organiser for the bush unions in
N. S. W., got a reputation as “ a daring devil ’ ’
with horses. On one occasion he brought a
pair of back-countrv nags, harnessed with
rope, through Sydney, introducing them for
the first time to the electric trams and other
new horrors.
Dean Vance, of Melbourne, celebrated his
golden wedding the other day. His predecessor,
Dr. Macartney, had also celebrated his golden
wedding at the Deanery. A lucrative billet in the
Anglican Church is the healthiest occupation in
the world for both the shepherd and his shep-
herdess.
Geil, the comic partner in the Geil-Torrey
mission that made oof while the sun shone in Aus-
tralia, is not with his American brethren, Torrey
and Alexander, who have been trying to hit the
Londoners with the coon camp-meeting style of
revival. Geil was the “pardner” with the long
nose through which he drawled Americanisms so
effectively, but the probability is that none of the
missioner s “ smart things” were his own, except-
ing by adoption. His books are dull enough, and
he is publishing loads of them. While in Aus-
tralia he had one in hand, the MS. of which was
as big as a van. Being amused with a low-comedy
account of one of his meetings, written by a Mel-
bourne pressman for a frivolous weekly, he went
to some trouble to discover the author, then in-
vited him to take over the van-load of manuscript
on which he (the missionary man) was engaged,
an 1 enlighten its dark places with comic interpo-
lations. The Melb. pressman declined the under-
taking.
R.C. Bishop Yidal, now visiting Sydney,,
cultivates the common clerical hobby of church-
building. Several of the Polynesian islands over
which he rules have fine churches, but, what is
not-so common with clerics, he and his assistants
have been the chief stonemasons and builders.
Colonel George J. Airey, dead at the age*
of 62, the other day, was educated at the Royal
Military College (Eng.). He arrived in N.S.W.
as Marine Officer in the Challenger in ’66, founded
the first Australian battery, and was senior officer
of the old N.S.W. Artillery, now the R. A. A. He
was in charge of tire guard protecting the Duke of
Edinburgh when O’Farrell tired at him at Clontarf..
His other active service included the trip with
the Donkey Contingent to the Soudan.
Acting Queensland Commissioner of Police
Douglas wants to get the post in a fully-fledged
sense, so that he can retire with the honor, and
does not ask for the increased
salary. He joined the force as a
cadet. He would pass as a man
of 40 as he walks Brisbane’s-
streets.
LIABLE TO MISUNDERSTANDING.
THE DOCTOR : “ The poor man is at death’s door”
HIS DAUGHTER : “I expect you will pull him
through.”
The Bulletin has a good deal of respect
for the S. Australian parson (removed to Meß-
bourne) who announced to his old parishioners :
He was going to a larger sphere of work, and the prospect
of a parsonage which was paid for, with a greater income,
has had its weight with one who has a growing family to
educate and equip for work in the world.
That is better than putting it down to the “Lord’s-
call.”


Hotel
Australia
RATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day.
Most central, largest,
most comfortable, and
best appointed hotel
in Australasia.
Spacious, Cool
Lounge Bar.
dfg
During: Summer months
a Specialty is made of a
variety of cold dishes
for Luncheon.
A Balcony Dining-room has just been added to
main Dining-hall.
Hot and Gold Water in all rooms day and night.
Lifts running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resell’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
FALIERES’ PHOSPHATINE'
A Valuable adjunct to Infantile Dietary-
Parents who would rear Strong Children, and avoid
tbe troubles incidental to Teething, should use it*
m
ua
o)
mm
msmrm
ms
n
~Cg2»
FOOD FOR INFANTS & INVALIDS
Ail Chemists and Gbocees.
Aboriginalities.
Bill Bowyangs faced the local J.P. (and
storekeeper) on the usual charge of drunkenness.
“ Your Worship ” Bill said, “lama fencing-con-
tractor and came into town to order half a ton of
wire. Not being used to drink, a couple of nobblers
knocked me over, and I was locked up before I
had time to order the wire.” “ Discharged,” said
the bench promptly, and an hour later Bill faced
the track with bluey up. All that day the store-
keeper J.P. waited vainly for a wire-order.
• * * •
“Euroa”: Camped at Benalla show
grounds one night, 1 sank very low in an oVI
battler’s opinion. We were all around the fire,
yarning, and I struck a match to have a smoke
before turning in, when pipe, matches, and myself
were knocked all of a heap by the old chap as he
went off like this :
“ Well, of all the extravagant lot of I
ever see, you take the belt. Here’s a bloke,” turning to
the others, “ who strikes a match an’ a fire dashed well
starin’ him in th’ face. Yer deserve” —to me—“ lo
dashed well starve, as yer dashed well will unless yer git
some sense as yer git older. Look here 1”
to all of us—“ I never struck a match in me ill-spent life
when there was a dashed fire near me, an’ I’ve lived a
condemned sight longer ’n any of yer. Git t’ everlastin’
fire out o’ this.”
» » * *
“Antiquarian ” : Where did Batman sign
his treaty with Jika Jika, or Jaga Jaga, and the
other black chiefs ? Casually, I find it cleared up
by a paper read by J. Blackburn, C.E., before
the Melbourne Historical Society. Rusden, Bon-
wick, and absolutely every other authority, gives
the wrong place. One audacious drawer of the
long bow asks if it isn’t amazing that Batman
agreed with the blacks on the very site of Mel-
bourne. Bonwick and Rusden coquet about
Northcote, the N;E. suburb. They reckon that
the site was the Merri Creek, and one of them ex-
patiates on the interesting fact that the place was
most likely just where the Old Colonists’ Home
is. All wrong. Blackburn conclusively shows,
from Batman’s MSS. diary, in the Melbourne
Public Library, that the place was on the Plenty
River. Batman’s party included seven Sydney
blacks, who greatly facilitated his proceedings and
verified the status of the chiefs. He fetched the
agreements, ready formulated, from Tasmania.
* * * *
A Gippsland (Vic.) rabbit inspector tells
of a pleasing little domestic incident discovered
by him during a tour on the hottest day of the last
hot spell. He was nearly knocked out, and made
his way to a selector’s home in quest of water and
shade, and entered to find the man of the house
E rostrated in one corner of the one room, floored
y heat-apoplexy or something very like it, while
his wife sat in the other industriously fanning a
seemingly perishing pig with a sheet of tin. “My
good woman, this man looks as if he were dying 1”
said the inspector. “Not he. Tim’s a great deal
worse than he is,” exclaimed the troubled house-
wife, intent on saving her bacon. “Tim” was
the pig.
SAILING DIRECTIONS.
“Say, ole chap, yer mind seein' me home; I
fergit the name o' the house, but thish key
fits the door.”
“Red”: Cyanide of potassium (as used
for separating gold from sand), dissolved in water,
would give bunny a quicker and more certain
death than the slow-torturing phosphorus. No
danger of firing the country with the cyanide, as
with exposure to air and heat it in time decom-
poses and becomes innocuous. Cyanide solution
sprayed on to an ant-bed from a fine-rosed water-
ing-can will effectually destroy the population.
“ Low ” :
Have never seen anything in “ Aboriginalities ” re the
“policeman fly.” I have seen him myself in Queens-
land, and then only at camps. He is a black fly, about
the size of the native bee, but longer and lighter. When
“ the force” arrives at a camp, the common fly has to clear
out. I have seen a camp swarming with common flies,
and a few days after the “ policemen ” appeared it was
hard to find one. Should a fly alight on the table and
begin strolling round, a “policeman” will alight perhaps a
foot away, and also stroll round in an apparently aimless
and casual way till within two or three inches of the
victim. Then there is a wild jump, a fierce buzzing from
the captive, and the “ policeman ” sails off with him,
presumably to the lock-up. This goes on all day, conse-
quently the “ policeman-fly” is very popular in a camp.
Unfortunately when wanted most he frequently doesn’t
arrive at all. His police station is not on the telephone
list.
* * * *
“ Yespertilio ” : The English “toff’’who
makes constant use of the expression “haw” is a
familiar figure in the pages of The Bulletin. It
is evidently a common impression in Australia that
the word (if it is a word) is in general use amongst
the English upper class. After living for some
30 years amongst that class, followed by another 20
odd in Australia, I can only remember two indivi-
duals who made use of it. One was the son of a
drunken and otherwise disreputable old veterinary
in my native town, a good-looking but impecunious
young scamp. The other individual who intro-
duced the fruit of the hawthorn into general con-
versation was a boss drover (now dead) who lived
at Deniliquin. The drover is often a promoted
boundary rider, but, occupying an important posi-
tion of trust, he is generally put up at the “big
house” when taking charge of or delivering stock.
From the men's hut to the squatter’s table at one
jump not unnaturally makes him think himself a
bit out of the common, and also makes him
anxious to say and do the right thing in his newly-
acquired position. What more natural than, seeing
the constant allusion to “ haw ” in The Bulletin,
lie imagines it the hall-mark of birth and breedX
ing, and immediately introduces it into his own
vocabulary ? [The Bulletin doesn’t think that
the inane “haw” afflicts the “British upper
classes” —the “British” upper classes of to-day
mostly speak Yiddish—but it is common among
English snobs, gilded youths, and the like; also
the weak-minded Australian comes back from an
English trip with his talk larded with “ haws.”)
* * • *
“ Ossian ” : Re “a correspondent from
one of the northern (N.S.W.) rivers” (B. 2f>/l/’CS),
who says Hindus have crowded out white men
from the Richmond and Clarence (N.S.W.) maize
and cane crops. I know every farm on the
Clarence, and can swear such a state of things
doesn’t exist; 93 per cent, of the cockies employ
white labor, and get the bonus, and those that
don’t, take on South Sea Islanders. Have been
knocking round here a good while, and never met
the “educated Hindu boss-contractor” yet. If
you were to search every inch of the Clarence you
wouldn’t find 20 Hindus.
* * * *
“Orthos” : “8.5.” re black hornets
(B. 24/11/’O4). The red hornet is also an insect-
destroyer; likewise builds mud
nests, and pursues the same tactics
as his black brother (of which he
is the sworn enemy) in burying
his tucker. Watched one deposit
a large spider on a sandy patch.
Head-first he proceeded to tunnel
a hole, kicking up the sand with
his hind-legs. Now and then he
would leave off and walk around
thespider, evidently takingmeasure-
ments. Whilst he was in the hole
I nipped off one of the spider s legs,
and next time the hornet surveyed
his victim he noticed something
amiss, and displayed great excite-
ment, finally giving up the job and
flying away.
* » *
“ H.S.N.” : Re “Dycolt’s”
edible oysters (19/l/’O5). The beds
of the big oysters extend to the
extreme north of Queensland. One
could fill ship-loads of them in some
places. But buyers look dubiously
at them—say that they don’t carry
well. Also, the average oyster-
eater, unless a fiend for the bivalves,
after a few gigantic swallows begins
to get contemplative. Oysters of
this large variety require a Bent-
like nerve. The local name, “blue
oyster,” is derived from the con-
spicuous lung or mantle of the color of blue-black
surrounding the body of the oyster.
* * # *
Professor Klaotsch, the German scientist
who has been hunting amongst the Q. blacks for
the missing link, was much interested in Mr.
Meston’s ad ventures amongst the wild, untameable
tribes in the Bellenden-Ker ranges, where they
paraded at tribal wars in decorative dresses of
cockatoo feathers, gaudy paint, and polished
shells. That was just what Kloatsch wanted to
see. So he set out from Brisbane for the
north. His coining was heralded and his object
known. On his arrival at the mission station
one black was attired in the cockatoo feather
rig; the balance of a mob were giddily
painted. The professor wanted a photograph.
The spokesman, with cunning, demanded Is. a
head to pose. The professor then wanted to
know where the feathered darky came from. The
Upper Russell. Ho must see this tribe in its
native lair, he decided. After a couple of weeks’
journey he reached the haunts of the wild blacks,
with whom “the Sacred Ibis” had successfully
wrestled. The visitor saw a half-dozen blacks
working at a station, dressed in ordinary clothing.
He inquired as to the whereabouts of the wild
blacks in cockatoo feathers. One man approached
and, in good English, said: “I’m the cockatoo
man. Don’t you recognise me, professor? It was
I who bargained about the plioto.” The professor,
in telling the experience of his fruitless hunt for
wild men, said: “I laugh all ze way back to
Cairns, all ze way back to Brisbane.” The link is
still missing.
* * * *
“Hardy”: Talk about utilitarians! I
..know a cocky who owned a horse that, after a
long life of toil, got past even the weekly load of
firewood, the sledge of cornstalks, and the cream-
cans ; then the cocky took him to a gap in the
bush-fence where the wallabies used to come
through, and shot him there. “ The smell ’ll
keep them out for a while,” he said.
ON' THE ROAD.
WILLIAM THE ELDER: "Ah!
young 'un, ye nivcr thart ter
see me alive, did ye! ”
WILLIAM THE YOUNGER: “Eh! what! Yez
'aren't bin dead, 'are yez? ”
“W.P.8.”: Query (B. 12/1/05) as to
how fast flies can fly is one that doesn’t
appear to have occurred to anyone to
answer. I don’t know, but I guess they must be
fairly fly ! We are told that a bee can do his
80 miles an hour, in ballast only. If it comes to a
race between the bee and the fly, I’ll have my
money on fly every time. Have been on a bike
travelling, as I thought, 40 miles an hour, and
have watched flies keeping just two inches off my
face, and making no effort about it either —just
back-pedalling, as it were. What could they do
sprinting !
* * * »
“ Ed.” : Be flies keeping up with a fast-
travelling train. Behind a motor-car, the pace-
follower, by keeping up close, is drawn along with
scarcely any work by the partial vacuum produced
in front of him. Also the air almost in contact
with a train moves in the same direction, though
not with quite the same velocity.
* ♦ » *
“Shellback”: Be “ Scandal of the Nor’-
West ” : Same conditions exist in the Gulf Country
and Torres Straits ; the camps at Jardine and
Small River and Cape Grenville are little Gehennas
when the colored aliens are around in boats.
“Quid”: The notion that snake-bitten
people mostly die from whisky or fright has
probably arisen from the fact that many people
are bitten by poisonous snakes, with, of course,
no serious consequence. No doubt in such
cases the passive-endurance method would
be as good as any other, and would save
whisky, but, if the snake were, say,
a N.S.W. “tiger,” or a Queens-
land “brown,” I should advise
“ Hamer ” or “ Gil ” to make a
wild break for medical treat-
ment. I have seen a dog
bitten in several places by
a 12ft. Queensland car-
pet snake, with no more
serious result than blood
and howls ; but, later
on, when the same clog
was bitten by a brown
snake he only lasted 10
minutes. Also a draught
horse, bitten by a Q. brown
snake, died in 20 minutes, and a
retriever bitten by aN.S.W. “tiger”
lasted only 7 minutes. No alcoholic poisoning
about these cases anvhow !
» *' » •
“ R.M.E.” : “ Australis” (B. 29/12/’O4) is
much too sweeping in his remarks about Maori
habits. Here at Whirinaka River, about 30 miles
from Motorua, there is a settlement of 40 or 50
Maoris, men and women, mostly employed at the
local flax-mill. The wahines seem to be washing,
cooking, or cleaning up all day, and their clothing
is always clean. The men go swimming after
work, and change into clean togs, and the kiddies
are kept as clean as possible. The tents, too, are
perfectly clean and orderly. The tent itself is
turned into quite a smart sleeping compartment,
eating and cooking being done in a sack
“kitchen.” These Maoris always spread a clean
linen tablecloth with clean plates and knives and
forks for tucker, and their kitchen utensils are
spotless.
* * • •
“E.F.” : Recently came across a yabbie
without any hard external casing. Opened him and
found inside two hemispherical pieces of lime-
substance. Seems that before casting his
armour, which does not increase in size with the
growth of the tenant, the yabbie lays in a stock of
lime ready for his new uniform. This takes some
time to form, and during the process he keeps out
of the way of his armor-plated mates, who are not
above dining upon a soft-bodied relative.
“Hodge”: Here’s a puzzle.
The “nest” of the “mallee
hen ” is a round cavity about
3ft. deep in the centre of a
mound of earth trom 3 to 4
feet high. This is scratched
together by several hens,
and the cavity is bot-
tomed with leaves and
sand. The hens then
start laying in turn in
regular concentric rows
until the cavity is filled.
It is then covered up,
and the fermentation-
heat hatches the eggs.
The hens never go near
the nest again until next
breeding season. Now,
as this process of incu-
bation is going on from
the time the first eggs
are laid, one would
think that these would
he hatched sooner than
the others. The blacks
say that the chicks, as
soon as they are hatched,
start kicking until they
come to the surface of
the loose sand. All very
well as regards the top
birds; but how about
those at the bottom,
with the later-laid eggs
resting upon them ?
These chicks do get
out somehow, because
no rotten eggs or dead
chicks are ever found
remaining in the nests.
* •
“E.H.P.”: I have
just finished a trip
through the Northern
Territory (S.A.), from
Camooweal (Q.) due
west, to the overland
telegraph line at Powell’s
Creek, and thence north
to Port Darwin. I found
the blacks much superior
in physique to the coastal
natives, but not so skilled
in the manufacture of weapons.
N.T. niggers know nothing about the
return-boomerang, the kind they use being very
rude and clumsy. The women are plump and
well rounded, but fail badly from the knee down.
Most of those I saw were absolutely naked.
A Bulletin correspondent writes re certain
bush fallacies:—
When I came to Australia and knocked about the bush,
I was assured on all hands that the dingo was too cun-
ning ever to be trapped ; and that to poison him one had
to don dogskin gloves before preparing the poison, as,
otherwise, the smell of the human hand would inevitably
prevent him from taking the bait. Then, about snakes.
If you met a snake and had not a stick to slay him with,
all you had to do, I was assured, was to fling down your
hat for the snake to watch while you went for a stick, and
the snake would be there keeping his faithful eye on the
hat when you returned.
Well, when in a slack time I took to trapping, I found
that I could poison dingoes wholesale with any kind of
meat—handled by the butcher first and myself after-
wards. I have had dingoes come and drink out of a
bucket at the tent door, and 1 have actually shot a dingo-
slut in my tent while she was trying to drag the ’possuin-
rug off my bunk. No great cunning there, surely '! Also,
if you will mix strychnine with fat and smear the stuff
round the butt of a tree, you will get as many dingoes as
there are round your camp.
As for the hat-and-snake trick. I have tried it often,
but only' once was it a success. The snake was still near
the hat when I returned with a stick. But he was dead ;
I had n’t noticed that before. Anyhow, the man who,
meeting a snake, throws his hat down, goes a mile or so
for a stick and comes back to the same spot, is a fair
bushman. And if he finds the snake there he is a genius
—or, maybe, a liar.
IN TOPHET.—THE MAN-PEST AT
RABBITVILLE.
“Thurla” : Recently, near Kingstown
(New England district), my dog lulled a sft.
red-bellied black snake, in which _ I found six
young ones, about 6in. long, enclosed in a skin-like
casing, which contained also a fatty substance.
Do these snakes produce their young alive ? [No
snakes are properly viviparous, but many species
are ovo-viviparous; that is, they retain the eggs
in the body until the embryo is fully developed.
Possibly “Thurla’s” was one of these.]


Phosphates are
necessary to natural
nourishment and you
get them in
From Grocers and Stores
SALT
Wholesale Agents Harrison & Attwood, Sydney .
Race
Ciubs
Our Stock of
Presen ta tion
Siiver is one
ofthe largest
in Sydney.
Our Prices for Solid
Silver are the lowest
in Australia.
Heavily Electro-plated on Hard White Metal, £7 7s.
We sell all Mappin & Webb’s (London, Silversmiths to His Majesty the King) Goods at their London
Prices—plus duty.
Selections of Goods sent for inspection to any recognised Club.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS;
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“Bax”: Re insect stings and bites
(B. 23/2/’O5). For dangerous results, the big,
blue W. A. centipede, which grows to six inches,
comes first. At Mount Magnet (in ’95) a 2-year-
old child died from the bite of one of these, and
I’ve known a prospector laid-up for a month with
a poisoned arm —bitten by a half-grown cent.
The centipede’s venom is, contrary to usual belief,
in its front end. Would place the small, red-
spotted, black spider next in point of dangerous-
ness. Fairly common round Melbourne (usually
found near pine or gum-trees), and cases of serious
blood-poisoning from its bite are not infrequent.
The scorpion’s sting is less serious in results,
though if the sting strikes near a finger-joint it
sometimes causes permanent stiffness thereof.
Effects of hornet, wasp, or bull-ant stinging are
trifling compared with any of the foregoing. The
bull-ant isn’t up to the jumper-ant of Queensland,
which arrives with a 2ft. jump, stings as it
alights, and jumps promptly out of danger.
“Alex. M.” : Cannot agree with “Bax”
in placing first, for evil results, the bite of the
centipede—which, by the way, is an arachnid,
not an insect. The bite of even the giant equa-
torial centipede (Scolopendra Morsitans), some-
times Ift. long, is never fatal to an adult, and
the pain, though severe, yields readily to an
application of ammonia. But the bite of the
black-red spider (Latrodectus Katipo) has been
frequently fatal (twice within my own knowledge);
and the effects, when they do not kill, remain
sometimes for years, in the shape of swellings or
agony-fits. “Bax” is right about the business-
end of the centipede. Like the spider, the cent,
injects its poison through the falces—the curved,
horizontally-acting jaws.
• * * *
“Nardoo”: In all the recent “ Abo.”
writing about stings and bites of various kinds,
I haven’t seen any reference to the half-hour’s
severe pain caused by bringing any part of the
naked body into contact with the small green
caterpillar that camps along the wilga-tree leaves.
* * * *
“Miles”: Re “ Alix ” (8., 9/2/’O5). All
cats enjoy vibratory movement, as witness their
fondness for a perch on a floor vibrating through
the action of machinery. Everything in a room
vibrates palpably when a piano is played, and
“Thomas,” locating the source of vibration, jumps
on the piano to get the full benefit.
* * * *
“Exile ”: Re “Rory’s” query (8.9/3/’O5).
I knew of two Afghans in Coolgardie who washed
regularly, stripped to the waist. Possibly, like
many others, “Rory tliinks every camel-driver’s
an Afghan. The real Afghan is a cold-country
man, who wouldn’t feel shivery in any part of
Australia except, perhaps, at the 1 top of Kos-
ciusko. The Afghan is specially particular about
washing his feet.
* * * *
“Timbarra” : Re that woman who could
kill and dress a sheep in less than an hour (B.
9/3/’35). I knew a woman at The Leigh, near
Geelong (Vic.), who could kill and dress a sheep
in 10 to 15 minutes and have its gravy washed off
the dinner-plates before the hour had expired.
She was Scotch, wore dresses up to her knees, had
her hair cut short, and smoked a little clay cutty.
MISS MARIE RIGNOLD (the third daughter
of William Rignold: she is now in Aus-
tralia, with the Van Biene Co.).
Photo, for The BULLETIN, by Inez and Nina Hicks, The
Block, Melbourne.
“Hardy : Nothing wonderful in that
horse of “ Kiros ” (B. 9/2/’O5) that went 13 days
without water. Horses and cattle go even months
without water in winter when they are “let in”
on the farm after the corn has been pulled, and
when succulent thistles, prairie-grass, and pump-
kins supply drink in a food form.
* * ♦ *
“Cobb”: Common in the Camden dis-
trict, N.S.W., to hear the farmers boast about the
number of their children. One man, who has
already 14 children, recently said to me that if
His wife had more he would divide the family,
and so keep two dairies going.
THE WAR OF RACES.
ANGRT CHOW (who has been missing bananas): “By cli', you black lallikin, I shakum up
the ’possum in you—by cli!”
BILLY : “You blanky yeller feller; I shakum up rice alonga you.”
A Queensland mining man, who lately
had his room “ ratted ” by some amateur burglar,
now keeps a 10ft. carpet-snake as a protector.
At night-time he is confined in a biscuit fin, to
prevent him from trying to share his proprietor’s
bed, but by day he may roam where he likes.
His diet consists principally of frogs and mice,
and he can lick up a fly 4in. off with his tongue so
quickly that the human eye can see no
more than that the fly is gone. He is summoned
to meals by rattling the mousetrap, and his owner
opines gleefully that the next burglar will get the
sensation of his life.
“ B.B.”; Re man-traps: I lost a
clerical billet last year, and as there were
no clerks on the dying list, and, therefore,
no prospect of a vacancy, took a turn as
laborer at a sugar mill. After a week of odd
jobs, was placed on the molasses tanks.
The tanks ranged from 5 to 18ft. deep.
The work consisted of wheeling trucks of hob
sugar over the tanks, to the pugmill. The
tanks had no covering. A 12in, board each
side of the rails was for the accommodation
of our feet. The man with big feet ran a
greater risk than a man with small feet.
Unless the boards were continually washed
with hot water (which they weren’t) they
became slippery, and the molasses man
had to look out. I made a start by putting
my foot into a sft. tank of warm molasses.
Was a little more careful for a while after
that until, one evening, while dreaming
of the happy life of a clerk, 1 slipped into
the 18-footer, and just grabbed the rails and
edge of board as I sank. It took two men
to pull me out, after which I got my cheque
and cleared back to town. If I had gone
to the bottom that time my funeral would
have been delayed four days. It would
have taken that time to work the molasses
into sugar, and then my remains would
have resembled preserved ginger.
“ Wiljar ” : Hard to estimate the
Australian cocky’s annual loss through
neglect of his fences. I knew a settler near
St. Arnaud (Vic.) whose 1280 acre holding
had 17 miles of fencing on it—all in bad con-
dition. Part of his wheat-area was often
on three sides of a grazing-patch, where two
boy's and a dog “ minded ” about 1000 sheep.
Common then to find the dog rabbit-hunt-
ing, the boys bird-nesting, and the sheep
in a promising 2ft. crop.
“ Hodag ” : Parrots’ nests, robbed by
goannas, are frequently left with a bit of timber
sticking prominently out of the hole. Is this:
placed there by the distracted parents as a warn-
ing to newly-wedded “joeys” that the site is;
unsafe, or thoughtfully stuck there by the “go”
in order to save fellow robbers bootless trouble ?
* * * *
“ Xerxes ” : Thousands of sheep will die
this winter through chewing the dried-up carcases
of poisoned rabbits—which they seem to relish.
Poisoning is devilish, and destroys wild and tame
birds, and stock in plenty. ’Possums are extinct
where there is poisoning.
“ Oktis ” says that many of the inland
ranges of N.B. W. are leased to the squatters and
cockies, who ruthlessly destroy all the pine and
other timber growing upon them—
Even such valuable trees as stringy-bark are ring-barked
or chopped down. Considering that the ranges are, for
the most part, covered with loose stone and volcanic
rocks, and wouldn’t carry a sheep to 100 acres under any
circumstances, it seems sheer madness thus to destroy
the timber. The Government winks at the practice, and
invariably calls ringbarking on lands “improve-
ments ” ! Almost the only green timber to he found in
many districts is on Govt, reserves and the stock-routes.
Even these places, when enclosed by a station, are
frequently devastated with the rest. Writer’s experience
is that, though wholesale ringbarking causes an increase
of grass for a few years, there is ultimately a decrease.
Districts which, 50 years ago, were covered with grass as
high as a bullock’s back, have never, since the timber
was all destroyed, even in the best seasons, grown grass
more than a foot high. Also, the storage of water for
stock has now, even in good seasons, to be thrice as great
as it was when the country was covered with green
timber.
* * * *
“ Syddod ” : “ D.H.R.” (B. 9/2/’O5) means
the cabbage-tree palm, of which the unfolded leaf
(called “a hand ”) was used. It was generally the
women of the family that made the hats. Another
forgotten industry was the patient plucking from
the huge undergrowth of the “macroyamia”
(blackfellows’ potatoes) of a substance which was
used for stuffing mattresses, &c. By the way, I
could send you a copy of a poem, attributed to
Henry Kendall, in which allusion is made to a
“ bangalow bucket.” How many could, nowadays,
make one ?
* * * «
“Yarrum”: Re cabbage-tree hats (8.,
9/2/’os\ All the “cab’oage-trees” I have seen
were made from cabbage-tree palm leaves—not
from “grass growing to a height of 2or 3ft.” I
can remember when bundles of the raw material
(called “sennet”) used to arrive in Sydney, by
the Illawarra boats, to be manufactured. An old
lady in this (Newcastle) district makes good hats
yet—prices up to a guinea. Best “ cabbage-tree ”
I ever saw was valued a* 20 guineas, and was
presented to sculler Beach after Gaudaur nearly
tied him.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
' taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
'Count: We don’t care to publish vague pars
without knowing what they are loaded with. The par
which speaks about a “certain” person or a “certain”
institution should specify for the editor’s information.
Throwing a brick in the dark is risky, even in a thinly
populated area Coovler: Sorry, but we can’t print
•copy on the “ sympathy ” principle. Much of that would
soon leave no Bulletin to sympathise with you. Your
pars, mostly unsuitable, and include a yarn (the Euclid
■one) printed in B. years ago Legacy (Adelaide) : Yes,
the back foot in the Lindsay picture looks like another
left, but the girl has boots on, and that might only be a
false impression due to a bunion.... YV. 3 (Bemboka) : A
curious coincidence ! With the same post as “Legacy’s”
letter about N. Lindsay putting two left feet on a figure
yours comes saying that Vincent (9/3/’O5) gives Lauri, as a
■“ prehistoric man,” a left foot when he should have a
right—or rather puts the big toe outside the foot. May
be prehistoric men wore their toes that way.... San
Renno : It is not, on the whole, advisable to discuss Bul-
letin methods and personalities in its own columns, but
worth pointing out—(1) that “ Hop ” is essentially a
humorous artist, and doesn’t choose to be anything else ;
if he wanted to do “ serious ” work, he probably would
succeed notably; but he doesn’t want. (2) The idea is
very often found for the artist; with some it is always
found. “ Hop’s ” ideas are, as a rule, his own. (3)
Thanks for notion,§which we will endeavor to use
Poor Pat: Not even jingle; only a jungle of words
R.B. : We want an Australian line, if that is possible, but
it’s not our ticket to run down the British lines in favor
of Yankee, German, and French folk. The Australian
boat if possible ; if not, then certainly the British boat, so
long as it has a white crew... .Pagan : The pietists’
antagonism is not due to anxiety as to the harm
done by her occupation to the barmaid, but to
anger at the pleasure she gives her customers....
Pom : Bathetic end spoils it Louis M. : Rabbit-
poisoning discussion closed Drifter: Quite enough to
do to keep track of Australian insects in the Abo. column
without worrying about S’African beetles J. O’N. :
But the Tasmanian trains are intended for the tourist
traffic and run slowly so that you won't miss any of the
scenery Becky :' Chock-full of dear old friends,
ideas and phrases that should be allowed to sleep peace-
fully in their graves Nulla: Salt-bush plains are not
graced with myalls, pines, willows, and wdgas ; also salt-
bush plains are dry and have no glistening billabongs
about them ! Verse about as Australian as a boomerang
made in Birmingham T.G. : Sentiment admirable;
form p00r... .L. 8.: Not enough interest for the space....
P.O. de 0.: Just missed Micky: Is that, snake-milk-
child yarn original? Seems to be familiar to Tub 8....
Visitor: Subject too hackneyed... .Ino : Hardly suitable.
. ...Florence W. : Very good for a firstling. You will make
a writer....Warragul: Too stiffly told. Take another
pen-name; we have already a “Warrigal.” Don
McGregor: Both very prosy....F. Barwon ; Both too
crude. To your question, yes... .Vyvyene : Don't care
for “ Motor-man ” ; too long, anyhow..:...!’. Kirwan :
Unintelligible in places Sydney Faire : Its simplicity
nearly carried it Jimmy the R. : Condense tfie pre-
liminary part into what is necessary to introduce
the lost man’s vicissitudes, which are powerfully de-
scribed... .C.F. 11. : Pretty good, but too often done,before.
Carl Lund : Yarn ancient; verse too crude... .0.0, :“ A
Dream ” is the better of the two, but isn’t quitje good
enough.. ..Blax : Thanks; don’t trouble to send....
Austin D.: Re fishes’ hearing, see Abo., B. 2/3/T)5..:
D.H.R. : The carpet snake is a python, and therefore non-
venomous E.L.: Funny, but unprintable John D.:
Well, it’s necessary to cater for all tastes G.BJ: One
of the staff has been put on to learn Scotch.. .iW.O. :
“ Our rule ” in regard to silly parodies is to decline them.
... .Beatrix B. :No class Douglas F. : Treatment not
strong enough.... The Duff er : Too confused in the tell-
ing Gwen W. : Pathetic, but overstrained DiH.R. :
“ Swagmen ”is a bit clumsy.... J.A.L. : You’ve no gar for
metre Sandiwell: Funny; hut too wordy and digres-
sive B.: To insist on Australian socialists being'bound
by the opinions of Bax, Gronlund, or any other of the
“ continentals,” is as fair as to insist that Presbyterians
should tie themselves up to Calvin and John Knox.
Beliefs, economic and religipus, have a way of growing
genial in Australia Wakatipu : Those 8-hour gambles
are fair to this extent, that the prizes are as advertised.
But, as a rule, there is a huge disproportion in the amount;
of the prizes and the ticket-money. “ Tatt.’s ” gamble
subtracts 10 per cent. The average friendly society and
8-hours gamble collars a very much greater porportion of
the money subscribed. Best explained this way : If you
put £1 into “Tatt.’s” you get a thousandth chance of
winning £9OO. If you put £1 into an 8-hours art union
(which has a fixed sum in prizes, but an unlimited
number of tickets) you will probably get only a five-
thousandth, or perhaps a ten-thousandth, chance of £9OO.
Hawkesbury: Can’t drift into a boggy discussion of
economic principles... .Theo. P.: Delay is sometimes not
fatal; find now that Drunk verse is not original
Unsuitable : Paris, Willie S., Pint Pot, Folder, A.H.G.,
Challcer, E. Damarol, W. Moore. Tony Brook, D. 8., J.Q.C,
NELLIE STEWART (an old-fashioned photo.).
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Ba.vdell: Not up to the mark, hut shows a good deal of
promise J.E.P. : Hardly good enough; and we wane
Australian subjects, anyhow W.F.D. : Very crude as
yet; impossible to say with any certainty... IP. J.D. :
Just misses J.M.P. : Nothing fresh A.B. : Sort of
thing that is best condemned by classing it as “sweet
little.” N.E.Q. : Cannibal picture quite unlifelike
Board: Yes, just as stiff Dunne: Not well enough,
Dunne T. O’H.: Drawing weaker than the gag—if that
is possible Unsuitable : Beginner.


“THE BULLETIN’S ” CHAM&ER of HORRORS.
The Lady Who Decided Not To Do So
has been set up in the same case with
the Capitalist who intended to start a
bun-factory in Australia, but was
deterred from doing so on account of
‘socialistic labor conditions,” etc.
“ Referring to the trouble which arose
over the landing in Brisbane of Mrs.
Tozer's maid, Mr. Tozer yesterday
stated, in Brisbane, that on
occasions people had intended Jr
bringing female domestics
to Australia, but, on J'
learning of the Im- f
\ migration Restric- /
\ tion Act, had
\ decided not
Vto do so.”
Joey Carruthere is here seen declining
durfnL h l7 ° ffered by the
during his recent tour up country. He
explaining that in consequence of the
closer settlement movement he cannot
dine with the squatter. Like much
that Joey says and does, there is
not much in it; but the “ Be-
torm” organs must fill up with V
something.
It has been alleged
(see how careful we
are) that 1,350,816
tins of jam supplied
to the troops in
S’Africa by Austra-
lian contractors con-
tained 12oz. each in-
stead of lib.
John Bull: “Now, the jam I sent
you during the S’African war was
pretty full weight.”
L.B.M. : “Yes, but don’t let us talk
of jam; let’s talk of the ‘ Moral
Effect. ’ ”
The Monkey Bear-Tameh : “ He’s a little
wild yet; but before I get through
with him he’ll feed from the hand,
you’ll see.”
N^>
• £?' x^(7 N^p V '
/// <*v^
o^V N A<'.-
© s ,<?
<4^
Sheep in the Albury district have
taken to eating rabbits.
“ Objection appears to he taken by the
War Office to the pinky color so often
characteristic of New. South Wales
leather, and also to the smell which is
sometimes given out.”
AN EASY ONE.
xj y. h J ®' re Australian bicycle sports like
JN.S.W. leather?
a week off and work this out.
'•With carnivorous flocks in Australia the
rabbit problem would be solved.
JAM, HOSPITALITY AND OTHER TOPICS.


'TbV lr’«* iv" u / 7 E t
' T^ e SVitf.^
(7 iKe nA rn A^ c ie
' Woa id be AssAtle^
under
s!><.*,<«’ \ r ’be I'*- I ’' V>
(*f/
M
"You sKouM«r h^e
|U wcrj 1»”« - "V y° wVe
H-- off r K[ r *- r
A **l *> • >r, ' r ’
| dithKe people
AS AuytrAluns—
we V* All brokers of-ilji
{jreAfesr E.tnbir'e tJ)Z
world //As ever
Seer,'!'
Gov. f? 1 c yt f\/boTT
deliberately
tfen f to tome The
C,oVcrn«ie"T info
\j,yer< of V burm*H«d S n
x 1 h C|t«nu* 0M
ftj fc Colo« r « A i
i
dy 'flje N \
we
L will * ?■***',*«.*L
V of worK jtfidy f° r ,r to
links*
hx<, ootii rotten if will T*^
Also bV* A W« l ob '
own t 0 4© Wf|«n " njec^
Re<d . .
- M r PefcKi n
Cheered into i
I
W*• «*L (
Unite \
Side of «*'«**' y/\
\*\^<\y r \r
pri"<‘f>l*Sy Ic
H)o\e wliT*^v
Shadowed lively of *
H«»r t .
> f 1
Shd|» «W« C|OV«r„ or |
i Soroly >\ I f>*y I
yov> bloomm
motor CA K I C&n i
ca>H w ' < /
1 I.M !.’ /
; ■
ef^T^
11 ]Fj e
now w\t no
l7of>e of A divorce *
iom H)C*)'t~
*} **
R«ia-- ■wo K f » t, i ~ti u loi€ , We ■
f K So
| always )»-c fente •
!h« Min.sfcr
noT yef oi*f»
< oosidir'A.'l'lO" to **>*
QiijiKon 'tt)**' Scljool
U ,i9.rK b «
V' Ai m
to J 4 * . /M
ffioM" Con7< S«»oe
f dibS wb*" ~t» +
K ,®f OU *'
%MW By , • 'tfe*. ComniOft—\
V€ J OVftT HtjmcH rrjorf i
'•f "ll>e S'WcS -#c boor.
wtil fo faKe %* bln n%e t*i/K
VICTORIAN AFFAIRS.


A. SAUNDERS FOR WEDDING PRESENTS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INKSTAND, Hobnail Cut Glass Pottles,
Ture Silver-plated, £2 10s. Other Styles, 255, 30s,
355. 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value ENTREE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver, by Jas. Dixon and
Sons, £2 ss, llin. Other Styles, £2 10s,
£3, £4.
Oi l 1 0 HI I lull II nil
m. ***£
m
1
A. SAUNDEPS. '
Pure Silver-mounted Cut Glass SALT CEL-
LARS and Solid Silver Spoons, in Silk-
lined Case, 12s 6d.
I.
A. SAUNDERS.
4-cup EGO FR \ME, Pure Silver-plated. Beanti-
fully Fluted and Ornamented, £2:los. Othet
g'vles, 21s, 255. 30s, 355.
Specimen GLASS,
Vin high, Similar
to Above, Pure
Silver - mounted,
Green, Ruby, 01
White Glass,
Is 9d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated CANDLE-
STICK, Ss 6d. Other
Styles, 12s Gd, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG and TOAST RACK Combination,
Pure Silver-plated* 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Design Floral Doulton China Pedestal SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, £2 10s. Small Size
for Fruit Salad, 30s. Other Styles, 255, 355, 40s, 455.
A. SAUNDtiw
Pure Silver-plated Venetian
Glass SALT CELLAR and
SPOONS, 10s 6d; with
Handles, 12s 6d per pair.
A. SAUND±i.IiS.
Pure Silver-plated on Nickel odvei
BUTTER DISH, 123 6d. Other
Styles, 8s 6d, 10s Gd, 12s 6d, las,
A. SAUNDERS.
SPORTING CUP, Pure
Silver-plated, Engraved
Fern Design, 20s, 255,
30s, 355, 40s, 50s,
SAUNDERS.
Hot Water KETTLE, Pure Silver-
plated, Copper Bottom, Eluted
and Embossed, A 3. Otner
Styles, £2 ss, £2 10s, £3 10s,
SHOPPING BY
Post. Our country clients
can confidently rely upon
getting- the same service we
extend to our local patrons.
POST
A. SAUNDi -'S.
English Cak PEPPER
MILE, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts,
8s 6d, 10s 6d,
sdf
ALL GOODS
We post free. Your
esteemed oider will
receive special attention
and prompt despatch.
We send all goods
Post Free to any
Address Required.
POSTED FREE.
A. SAUNDERS’
PRICE LIST FOR SPOONS AND FORKS.
A 1 Quality.
Table Spoons 20s half doz.
~ Forks 20s ~ „
Dessert Spoons .. 15s ~ „
~ Forks .. 15s ~ „
Tea Spoons 10s ~ ~
B Quality.
Table Spoons 12s 6d half doz.
~ Forks .. 12s „ »
Dessert Spoons 10s 6d ~ ~
~ Forks 10s 6d ~ ~
Tea Spoons .. 6s 6d ~ „
C Quality.
Table Spoons 10s 6d half doz.
~ Forks .. 10s 6d ~ ~
Dessert Spoons 7s 6d ~ >,
~ 7s 6d ~
Tea Spoons .. 6s ~ .»
NOTE. —We have them in three designs—Fiddle, Old English, and King. Good Spoons and Forks
are essential tq well-appointed Tables. Our Spoons and Forks are well made and beautifully
finished. They are\absolutely the BEST made in England, and will wear a lifetime. Wou can-
not get better than the best. OURS ARE THE BEST, AND THE PRICES ARE THE LOWEST.
A. SAUaoiIRS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure
Silver-pl ated, Qilt-lined,
Handsomely Engraved, 255.
Other Styles, 16s Od,
20s, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER GONQ, Pure Silver-plated,
Mounted English Oak, £2 10s.
Other Stvles, 12s 6d, 15s 6<4,
255, 30s, 40s.
BUTTER
A. SAUNDERS. , _ • ,
KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, Handsomely Hngm .
and Fluted, 2s 6d. Other Styles, 2s, 3s 6d, 4s GcJ, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-plated,
on Nickel Silver, White Crys-
tal Cut Glass, 20s. Larger, 255.
Other Styles, 8s G<l, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUi\uJiRS.
New Design Specimen
Glass, Pure Silver-plated,
lOs 6d each.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s per pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAK. EAST CRUET, 3-
bottle, Pure Silver-
plated 10s 6d, 12s 6dj
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d,
20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doulton China Leaf Design SWEET
DISH, Pure Silver-plated, 15s Od.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated BUTTER PBATEEK
with Knife and Handle, 10s 6d,
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD, Beautifully Chased and Embosssed,
Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, £2. Can
be used as Salver, £2 ss. Knife to Match, 7s 6d,
10s 6d. Other Styles, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Presentation Hobnail Cut Crystal Glass LIQUEUR FRAME, Pure
Silver-plained, Patent Self-adjusting Lock, £7 10s. Other Styles, £3,
.£3 10s, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD SERVER, Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely Engraved, and Pierced
Ivory Handle, lOin long, 15s 6d. Other Styles, 3s (xl, 5s tid, 7s (id, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 20s, 255,
A. SAUNDERS.
HONEY JAR, White Crystal
Cut Glass, Pure Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver, 255,
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Venetian Glass JAM
DISH, 15s 6d. Other Styles, 8s 6d,
12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Fern Design SER-
VIETTE RING, 8s 6d. Pure
Silver-plated, 5s 6d. Similar
Designs, Is 6d, 3s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Leaf Design EGGCUP and SERVER,
Pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d>
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver Stag FLOWER
TUBE, 15s 6d pair.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
AND OPTICIAN.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET, SIDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station),


SHIRTS.
For Station and Out door work our Silk Strife
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throuyhout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
g
TRY IT IH YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S.
A MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
“MAKES HOME, SWEET HOME IN DEED.”
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
sdfg
Villa Residences
. m anti . .
Their Furnishings.
FEW YEARS AGO, to furnish a
comfortable home was a serious matter
to the happy man who had decided to
set le down. But all this has been
changed since we have an up-to-date
firm like Buckley & Nunn, Limited,
making things easy by offering the furnishings of
an up-to-date villa for the moderate sum of
£197 10s. For this sum they supply the furniture
for hall, dining and drawing rooms, two bedrooms,
bathroom,' kitchen, and maid’s room ; also carpets,
linoleums, bedsteads and bedding, and window
curtains. As a guide to those about to furnish,
this firm has fitted up, in their magnificent show-
rooms, a MODERN VILLA RESIDENCE,
furnished throughout in an artistic and serviceable
manner.
A detailed list is supplied, giving the price of
each article contains 1 in every room, so that any
single article, or the furnishing for the whole room,
may be had at list prices. Every facility is offered
to those who are anxious to furnish moderately,
with good taste and up-to-date style. The rooms
fitted up are for immediate occupation, and are
very complete and ideal in every respect. The
help that this will prove to inexperienced pur-
chasers cannot be over-estimated. The up-to-
date enterprise and quick appreciation of what
the public want, as shown by Buckley and Nunn,
is very conspicuous in this latest departure.
One half-hour spent in their showrooms is an
education. The firm being large importers cf
English and Continental goods, one is always sure
of obtaining novelties in furniture and furnishings
not procurable elsewhere; and as they are also
manufacturers, there is no article of furniture that
it is not possible for them to produce on the
shortest notice.
The Bedstead Showrooms contain all the latest
importations from the best English manufacturers.
In their Bedding Factory, which is the most com-
plete in the State, an efficient staff is constantly
employed making and re-making bedding of every
description. All this work is carried out on the
premises, under the direct supervision of the
departmental manager; This is an advantage not
claimed by many other house furnishers.
The other departments in conjunction with the
Furniture Department are equally important and
interesting to all lovers of artistic houses. Cre-
tonnes, blind hollands, dainty muslins, and cur-
tains are stocked in such endless variety, and at
such moderate prices, that selection is made a
simple and easy matter. The same may be said
of the Carpet Department, where large shipments
of carpets and linoleums of new designs and color-
ings are constantly arriving from all the beet
makers.
Furniture, furnishings and carpets, etc. of a less
pretentious character than those exhibited in
rooms may be obtained from this firm. A com-
plete staff of men is retained for the purpose of
taking measurements for blinds, carpets, etc., and
preparing plan and estimates, which are supplied
to customers free of charge.
A CORDIAL INVITATION is extended by
the firm to all who are interested in furniture and
furnishings to INSPECT THESE ROOMS.
m
icyll&rv
Tablo
Qr Kitchei?
□
D
sid :boord
O
UfeiiirK)
Table
Co?
Sedfe
t stand
mb
B «
tew
*ilo
row
Woit
island
Was
Table
•a
n
Bed
w
l^yoT^Q
o.
Bed
ay
©
bb
Table
M
•bss^^ajm
ba
ee
pss
Cobioe
wardrobe
Verandah
Pressing
Tobte
m
furnished Complete for £ 197-10 - o
A 5 on view
At Show Rooms BUCKLEY&NUMH Ltd
Bourke St iPelfj
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Catalogues posted free on application.
can now see the MOST UNIQUE and PRACTICAL EXHIBITION
of FURNITURE and FURNISHINGS ever shown in Australia.
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd.
The Inky Way.
Recently-deceased Maori chief Honana Niawha with
his brother, once set up a newspaper in the King district
(having: been presented with a printing-press the
Emperor of Austria, as a memento of the visit to Maori-
land of the Austrian cruiser Novaro in 1859). Honana
and his elder brother, Patara te Tuhi, conducted the
rebel gazette, Hokioi— Patara grinding out patriptic
leaders and Honana setting them up. When the Maori
war began, the bare-legged staff “ flew to arms, and
there was no more Hokioi.
* * * *
One feature which the commercial columns of the
Sydney dailies have in common is the apology with which
they usually lead off. Something is alway's happening to
interfere with business, and to prevent a satisfactory
quantity of sugar and tin-tacks and tea being sold.
Either the day before was wet (merchants evidently not
having umbrellas or goloshes), or it was mail day, or the
cricket match, or the beginning of the month, or the end
of it. “ The uncertainty about the mail contract ” acted
on several occasions. When neither the local weather nor
political conditions gives a reason for an apology, the
commercial editor has higher flights, and the varying
course of the war, the troubles of internal Russia, or the
downfall of a Continental Ministry, upsets the world’s
markets, and in sympathy the York-street wholesale man
looks gingerly at the credit of the small shopkeeper in the
suburbs. But whatever the excuse the apology always
winds Up with a hopeful anticipation for “ next week.”
Mr. Peter Proctor: Thanks for your complimentary
comment 011 my journalistic demise. But it was not I,
but another pressman, who was interested in “a weekly
journal devoted to the teaching of anti-vaccination,
Swedenborgianism and other out-sizes in fads, cults and
religions.” I not only had no sympathy with anything
of the kind, but strongly advised the sincere and vigorous
pressman concerned against entering on the ill-starred
venture.
* , * *
There’s a startled whisper in Vic. country paper offices
that Syme, not content with the special train service
which allows Bendigo, Ballarat and Geelong to mix Age
politics with their breakfasts, would like to bar provincial
papers from getting any share in its cable service. At
present, country' papers can get a “ reduced ” service
selected from the daily cables by Reuter.
* * •
“ Namoi ” : The practice of newspaper proprietors to
accept as returned “unsolds” covers or parts of covers is
all right for the agent, but sometimes decidedly' all wrong
for the proprietors. The dishonest agent is not slow to
increase the number of his “unsolds” when he finds it
pays better than selling them. I have often gone into
shops where newspapers were sold and asked for the last
week’s issue : “ We’re sold right out but one, and it’s got
the cover off,” or “ there’s one left, but the cover seems
to have got away.” I had a job in a news and book
agency once, and' many a paper we sold which was “ the
last we had, and the cover had got off it somehow.”
“G.H.” expresses his opinion : The trouble with
most of the Labor papers, in m3' opinion, is that
they follow the part3' instead of leading it. Instead
of pointing the way to the party, and insisting
that the party shall go that way, they are mere
chronicles of members’ speeches ; and the place where the
ranging national leader should be is filled up with vapid
slush about Tory conspiracies, etc. Nearly ever Labor
editor seems to be bound to keep on reiterating the
dismal platitudes about the enemy’s vileness; and is
never by any chance allowed to point out to the Parlia-
mentary party that it is on the wrong track. And there
is not the slightest doubt that the Labor party does get
on the wrong political road occasionally. It is no more
infallible than an}' other body of ordinary men ; and when
it makes a grave blunder its papers should have the
liberty and the courage to tell it so.
“Erip”: Noticed verses by “C.N.” and comments
thereon by “ Oreeve Roe ” (B. 5/1, ’O5). Was inexpressibly
shocked to find more idols with feet of clay. Had pic-
tured the poets, with eyes in a fine frenzy rolling,
pursuing their fleeting phantoms through sylvan soli-
tudes ; but I find that —
Noticeable that the public doesn’t hear much of the
domestic affairs of journalists, as a rule. Partly ex-
plainable by the fact that long association with par-
cadgers has taught the average newspaper man a
horror of publicity. Hei as a rule, marries quietly
and lets his friends know' about six months after, and
celebrates anniversaries without paragraphs. Also the
ournalist’s marriage very rarely gets into the divorce
court. By all the rules of the game it should be other-
wise, as the long, irregular hours worked by newspaper
men should tend to make their domestic life irregular and
unhappy. But it doesn’t seem to, putting the matter to
the only possible test—that of the law reports.
* * # *
Since the lino, and mono, came into the bigger offices,
the comp, in the smaller country newspaper offices has a
harder fight than ever. From 255. to 30s. a week for a
fair workman is common Vic. pay for a 9-hour day, with
one or more late nights thrown in ; and if he growls, a
boy is brought in “to learn the trade” —and he knows
what that means. Poor comp. ! Poor kid !
» » * *
One of the smartest reporters on an Australian daily
was, years ago, relieved of his engagement in great haste
on the production of an unconsidered memo, in his hand-
writing. He attended a lecture delivered by a parson
out in the suburbs. It was a dreary discourse, and the
reporter was impatient to get away. He recognised the
representative of the rival paper a few seats distant from
him, and, pencilling a few words on a sheet of paper,
passed the message over to him. He read, nodded assent,
and they met outside, had a whisky and soda, fixed up a
paragraphic report each, and took the ferryboat to town.
Next day that reporter had a memo, to see the manager.
“ 1 believe, Mr. , this was written by you,” and the
reporter was handed a giddy note that was a
libel on the lecture and the lecturer ; “ it was picked up
in the hall this morning and handed to me.” “It was
very kind of someone,” ventured the reporter. “Of
course, your services are no longer required.” And the
reporter went forth in search of a billet.
♦ * * *
J, C. L. Fitzpatrick, ex-M.L.A., has purchased the
Molong Argus.
* * * *
Parson Woolnough, editor of the Brisbane Telegraph,
occasionally preaches. He is a brother to theN.S.W.
preacher of the same name.
“ G. 8.” : Someone writes to the Worker wondering
why Sydney pressmen have never formed a trades union.
I was one of thirty or so who formed a union in 1889, at
Gunsler’s Caffi —now closed. It lived for about six
months, but petered out after several enthusiastic beef-
steak-and-beer suppers. The Worker writer seems to
think that certain Labor members should take the matter
in hand, but it appears to me that if the movement does
not commence on the inside it can never be .yeasted from
without. The press has no need to import brains for its
organisation. Given a common wrong, a common meet-
ing place, and a common understanding, the union will
form itself.
“ M.F.” strikes a note of pessimism :
Natural is supposed to mean “ unaffected, real,” but
there is no reality in Nature—nothing but pretence.
Nature is artifice. With her, nothing is exactly what it
seems to be. Clear water seems pure, but chemists say
that pure water does not exist. As Stevenson said in
“ Pulvis et Umbra,” “A spring is nothing but an issue of
worms.” Nature is a great deceiver. Her chief aim is
to make a fair appearance. This is not a world of realities,
but of shams. The person who deceives, with no inten-
tion to do harm to anyone, is in harmony with Nature.
The man who would have nothing but truth would deprive
the world of its greatest treasure, books. Every book is
a mixture of truth and fiction, and especially the Bible.
(Note that “Chambers’ Encyclopaedia” devotes seven
columns to the game of whist and only two to the creation
of the world. The reason is that we know something
about whist and nothing whatever about the Creation.)
Nature wears a mask for the purpose of attraction, and
human beings (Nature’s children) are justified in doing
likewise. If every man showed his real character
life would be unbearable. Nature conceals the truth by
a robe of beauty because it is too hideous to be contem-
plated. We could not look on the truth and live.
The poet in his humble cot
Reclines at ease ;
He smokes his pipe and sips his pot;
He would be out but he cannot,
For listen, please—
His only shirt is in the wash,
And so he sips his lemon squash
At home.
Speaks Angeline (her name is Jane)
“ Go write an ode.
The baby’s boots are done again.”
Responds the poet’s weary brain
Unto the goad.
With burning words he writes of Love,
Of radiance glinted from above
Upon his home.
When Christmas comes, how sweet the use
Of penury ;
He builds the carol, to produce
The bottled beer and roasted goose
While curses he.
And thus he whips the poor old Muse
To put a patch on baby’s shoes,
And keep his home.


Furniture an d Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fg
CSJ-O TO HBT,T
|i;n|„\M' for Pretty Stamps, bu*
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagel),
FOREnIN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
\ustralian Stamps Boug+it. Price-Lists gr&tiu.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinet or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s, £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, 89C FAUBY, St. Martin, Paris, France.
POLITICAL
POINTS
One object of Premier Carruthers’ brand
of Closer Settlement is evidently to settle mem-
bers closely on the Government benches.
Without a stiff land-tax the “ Back-to-the-
Land” cry of the Tory papers really means
“Back to the Landlords.”
G. H. Reid, who clamors for only two par-
ties in Parliament, first stood for East Sydney as
an Independent.
Victorian Education Department has put
an end to the scandal of charging pupils for draw-
ing lesspns and insulting those who cannot pay.
A queer turn of the whirligig of time.
Sydney D.T. is approving violently of ex-Labor
member Joe Cook because he is prepared to be
more Tory than G. H. Reid !
British House of Commons agreed to the
second reading of the Trades Unions and Trades
Disputes Bill by 252 votes to 130. The measure
practically nullifies the famous “Taff Vale de-
cision ” against unionism.
The beneficent Maoriland Advances to
Settlers Act has hitherto been barred from ex-
tension to Crown tenants. That is to be altered
next session, so that the leaseholder with an im-
proved section will be competent to borrow on
equal terms with the freeholder.
Mr. Tozer’s latest complaint against the
Commonwealth is that he brought out with him a
bronze bust of Queen Vic. and had to pay duty on
it —although “ Princess Louise, a high-class sculp-
tress herself, assured him that the bust was all
that could he desired.” Evidently, in Tozer’s
weird mind, a Princess’ approval should be
grovellingly accepted by Australia in lieu of cus-
toms revenue 1
THE AUSTRALIAN HOUSEKEEPER.
There are indications that Australia grows weary of
maintaining 14 Houses of Parliament.—AGE.
THE BOY : “ Weary! I should say so. Why not
save labor by sweeping some of ’em right
away ?”
Queensland Govt, proposes to market the
cotton produced in that State, and if the mills at
Ipswich (long idle) can be secured, the Govern-
ment will receive the cotton in the seed, gin it,
market it, make an advance on the consignments,
and sell the cotton. More State Socialism !
Proved before the Tariff Commission, by
the production of correspondence, that, certain
workers having gone on strike at a Vic. confection-
ery factory, the Employers’ Federation circularised
other employers in the trade to boycott the
strikers. If taken by a labor union, such action
would be called conspiracy.
Mr. Tudor, M.H.R., writes, March 13,
1905, that Tom Mann’s resignation as organiser
was due to no salary trouble. “ The Unions paid
up loyally to the organising fund and his salary
was always there. He had no quarrel with the
Trades Hall, but he felt he could be doing better
work elsewhere for awhile.”
Senator Higgs, to the Tariff Commission :
“If we are going to keep out foreign sweaters,
we should also keep out local sweaters.” Which
is good sense and sound politics. The unfortunate
thing is that Senator Higgs cannot convert all the
members of his party to recognising the need of
keeping out the foreign sweater from our markets.
The Freetrade Labor man ceases his antagonism
to sweating when the sweater is not an Australian,
but a competitor with Australians.
The Peel River Co., now getting rid, a
substantial figures, of portions of its territory, isi
properly considered, the old A. A. Co. The A. A.
Co. received its million acres under Royal Char-
ter, but with conditions which it never fulfilled.
A quarter of a century or thereabouts later it sold
600,000 acres of its territory to its own members
as the Peel River Co. The transaction was a
purely paper one.
When in Maoriland, Admiral Fanshawe
did a little bit of reporting for the press on his
own account. He allowed no chance to pass of
reminding his audiences of the “ ridiculously small
contributions made by the colonies towards the
cost of the navy,” but, as this phase of the speech-
making was passed oyer too lightly by the press to
please him, the Admiral took the trouble to send
pages of carefully type-written “copy” with his
compliments to more than one editor.
Mr. William M‘Millan, at a Sydney
meeting (15/3/’O5): —
What is the Government, what is the Federal Par-
liament, but the representatives of the mercantile
community ?
That is what Government and Parliament should
be in the opinion of Mr. M‘Millan and other
denouncers of “class legislation”—the minion of
the mercantile class. But it isn’t now, though it
used to be when Mr. M’Millan was in power.
The Federal members who are tripping to
the West next month should not patronise a
black-labor P. and O. boat when a white-labor
Australian boat is available. Explanation of the
Reid Government (which is responsible for the
booking arrangements) that the P. and 0. steamer
berths were engaged because no Australian steamer
was available, is incorrect. The members are
timed to leave Adelaide on April 6. On April 4
the Kanowna leaves Adelaide, on April 8 the
Grantala.
Sydney cleric Dr. Roseby has returned
from Maoriland with a candid tale of the effects of
Labor legislation :
One of the things that impressed him deeply was the
almost entire absence of signs of abject poverty and
distress. Social derelicts like those seen shambling along
Sydney streets, or sleeping in the parks, and neglected
children like those encountered in the streets of Redfern
and Woolloomooloo; young men like those who, instead
of becoming the substantial yeomanry of our country,
were heard crying out after empty bottles, hawking fruit,
or selling rabbits, were absent in Maoriland. This was
largely due to wise legislation. The land legislation there
led the world. Then, again, the State had undertaken
itself what elsewhere had tended to become an oppressive
monopoly. It was certainly impossible to observe in the
actual condition of the people any evil results emanating
from this vigorous State initiative ; and, on the whole,
Maoriland was a long way more progress! ve than any of
our States.
“ J.” : Now that commission-
ers have been appointed to map out
the Federal electorates, it would be
well to look into the disparity
between the statisticians’ estimates
of population and the electoral
populations as returned by the re-
cent police canvass. That has been
pretty thorough, and under it
N.S.W. electors decrease from
686,049 to 669,500, while Victoria’s
increase from 612,472 to 618,014.
With the existing number of mem-
bers, each N.S.W. member would
represent 25,750 electors, while each
of Victoria’s would represent 26,870,
yet the statisticians say Victoria
ought to lose a member and N.S.W.
gain one, which would make the dis-
parity worse. Victoria is generally
supposed to have been losing popu-
lation : according to the electoral
figures they must have been nearly
all infants.
The Carruthers Government
has half-made up its mind to resume
the Peel River Estate, around Tam-
worth, for closer settlement; and
Mr. Levien, member for Tamworth,
has decided to support the Carru-
thers Government —“if it doesn’t go
cronk.”; It won’t “go cronk,” it
seems, if Jit sends out of the State
for locomotives, notwithstanding
that Mr. Levien is an alleged protec-
tionist; but it will no doubt “go
cronk ” if it doesn’t buy Peel River
Estate. Which suggests another
big reason in favor of a stiff graduated
land-tax as the best means of getting country
thrown open. That tax would strike equally, and
no member would have to come round to a
Government that was nibbling at a big land pur-
chase in his district, and promise his vote so long
as it didn’t “ go cronk.”
A South Australian Act of last session
—understood to be aimed at Melba, Pade-
rewski, and the like—empowered the Taxa-
tion Department to promptly collect the income
tax payable by any visitor likely to be out of
reach at the end of the financial year. The first
onslaught under the Act was made on Anderson’s
pantomime co., and as absentees’ incomes in S.A.
are taxed, however small, all the visiting folk
w r ere assessed down to the humblest. The mini-
mum was 9d.
Little by little, in spite of the protests of
the old buffers, the system of extravagance in State
administration passes away. Victoria’s Sheriff has
just died and the Government is considering
whether it cannot abolish that almost purely
ornamental office. The chief duties of the Sheriff
are not to hang the man he has been ordered) to
hang, but to get someone else to hang him, and to
101 l about the Criminal Court when big trials are
progressing. In the old boom days' that sort of
official was thought to be necessary. Different
times now call for different notions.
Cardinal Moran has pretty well squelched
the suggestion that .Australian Roman Catholics
should accept the late Pope’s views on Socialism
as dogma, and thereby recalls that that same Pope
was rather unfortunate in political matters. When
Henry George replied to the late Pope’s treatment
of the land question, at least three Roman Catholic
papers in Australasia declared that no Catholic
could advocate the taxation of land-values, as the
matter had been finally settled by the Pope.
Also, as the result of the intriguing of the Norfolk-
Talbot gang at Rome, the late Pope was hood-
winked into the publication in the early eighties
of a Rescript, in which he condemned the Land
League agitation in Ireland. The Irish people
didn’t worry much about what the Pope thought;
they just went straight ahead, as before.
IT WILL BE.
MR. BENT (recently): “ The country is behind me"
Looks as if the Butler (S.A.) Ministry
must go out when it meets the next Parliament,
early m July next. The Ministers have no party
at their back—the only votes they can depend
upon are those of themselves and their whip. So
far, Attorney-General Anderson has not got a seat
in Parliament, and there is at least a strong possi-
bility that he will not get one. He has never yet
succeeded at an election, although he has tried the
same district twiee before.
That absentee landlord, the Peel River
,-vt o \xt \ c on j u
( .^ S - W - ) ’ /7 30 years and m ° r n e has
kept idle, except for grazing, over 200,000 acres
of the best barley, wheat, and lucerne land in the
State ; and during that period has never given
regular employment to more than 20 people. A
while back it sold 1600 acres of its vast holding
to brewer Britten, of Tamworth, who, putting
the land under cultivation immediately, has since
regularly employed 30 hands. And it is stated
that his present crop of barley is worth £7OOO.
m, t-, •, ■ i /-i
The British Government has repudiated the
Thibetan treaty made by Colonel Younghusband
(a fact of which most of the daily papers have kept
their readers m ignorance). It will be recalled
that before the Younghusband “mission” started,
England gave a pledge to Russia that no annexa-
tion of Thibetan territory was contemplated,
Younghusband, presumably thinking that the
game of Imperialistic aggression was to be played
out on the old familiar lines, imposed on Thibet
the payment of a heavy indemnity in 75 yearly
instalments—a Thibetan province to .be held in
pawn by England the meanwhile as security.
Prime Minister Balfour has now repudiated this
arrangement, which, if carried out, would certainly
have represented a shameful breach of faith.
THE SITUATION IN RUSSIA.—THE CZAR
AND HIS GRAND DUKES.
Even the linotypes in the S.M. Herald
office splutter when they are put on to “ Labor ”
matter. Thus, reporting the Sydney Labor Con-:
ference: —
The ballot to determine the fighting platform was
announced as follows : Economic government, 85 votes ;
closer settlement, 78 ; free education, 78 ; progressive
land value tax, 72 ; civil rights to all Federal, State, and
municipal employees, 72 ; sociaiyaao, e -3a ns*J : shrd
shr dshrdll, 72 ; local government, 54 ; cessation of bor-
rowing, 49.
That, no doubt, is where George Reid got his idea
of “ soeialistic chaos ” from.
Half-Premier Reid was put in an awkward
position last week, when an Employers’Federa-
tion deputation waited on him and patted him on
the back, and said he was a good dog, and their
good dog, and would always have a bone waiting
for him in their kennel. Faced with this disas-
trous patronage, Mr. Reid took refuge in rudeness.
He tartly upbraided the Employers’ Federation
representative for attempting to run him, and at
the, close of the discussion (about the mail con-
tracts) expressly insisted that nothing that they
could say would influence his decision. In fact,
the Employers’ Federation was treated like the
strange lady who is well enough to meet after
dark, but mustn’t dare to speak to one in public
Artful dodger Reid practically puts it to
the Labor party this way : If you allow me another
two years of office I promise to faithfully discharge
a ll the legislative obligations you have imposed on
an d at the end of that time I will oppose you
hi the country as a Freetrader. On the other
hand, if you try to cut my term of office short I’ll
take Deakin to the country with me, and you will
have to fight Protectionists and Freetraders corn-
bined as one body under the name of anti-Socialists.
See where your advantage is! Give me the two
years, and afterwards vou must win : cut me short,
and your chance is doubtful,
~ , ... . n m
Bombastes Bent out-Tom mied Tommy in
the presence of a deputation asking for Womanhood
Suffrage the other day. He got it into his large,
globular head—which is strangely tough and
strangely garnished with hulls wool—that P.
Heagney had made some kind of a threat, and he
began to bellow and thrash round in quite a frantic
wa .Y, al *d yelled : “I refuse to bring in a bill:
Heagney has threatened me ! I refuse to bring in
a bill! Let him do his worst.” Nobody had
heard any threat, or anything like a threat, and
one by one the deputationists assured Bombastes
of this, but he continued to wallop the wind in a
blind, blundering way. He was not going to
allow any man to threaten him. He wouldn’t take
their representations before the Cabinet—he’d see
everybody blowed first. His antics the while
were like those of a fat, stertorous porpoise out of
water. Finally it transpired that Tommy had
discovered some terrible significance in Heagney’s
statement that he spoke for the Political Labor
Council in supporting the deputation. Mention of
the Political Labor Council is always a red rag to
Bent, and for a man with a neck like a roll of
corded bacon he is dangerously prone to anger.
When one
looks into Bent’s
work he doesn't
impress as a fin-
ancier even when
he has a “sur-
plus ” to distri-
bute. The elec-
torates of Hamp-
den and Gipps-
land East each
contain about
5,500,000 acres.
But in the lat-
ter there are
5, 000,000 acres of
Crown land—
which of course
do not pay rates.
The Hampden
shire is all pri-
vate property,
and receives a fat
rateage. Yet
Hampden gets a
150 to 1 subsidy
as against Gippsland East, as the subsidy is paid
out proportionally to rates collected. Fat, “the
farmer’s friend,” didn’t object to this; it’s the
Labor Party that is protesting on behalf of the
farmer who forms himself into a league to traduce
the said Labor Party in bad grammar.
The best thing said for Australian Labor
legislation lately ! Mr. Nathaniel Jacobson, “in
his line the biggest hat manufacturer in England,”
tells the Adelaide papers that he is amazed at
Australia’s “immigration laws and socialistic
legislation.” “How can you expect capitalists to
exploit Australia under such absurd conditions ? ”
he demanded.
Tired in the morning ? There are times
when the night’s rest doesn’t fit you for the day’s
work. Those are the times for a stimulant that
will brace you up and stay by you. The best of all
tonics is Wolfe's Schnapps.*


Banjos
at
Paling’s
sdf
We hold J
the largest .
stock of
Banjos
in Australia.
Best American make at
very low prices.
All Strings and Fittings
stocked.
Catalogues are yours
for the asking.
#***
Palmg'*s,
338 George St
(SYDNEY
PALING\S (Patented)
VICTOR PIANOS.
Old
Pianos
taKen
in
Exchange.
mhv
4>ot
You
cannot buy
better value
than
Paling’s
New Creation
The
Three Pedal
‘ Victor
Uprig'ht
Grand
Piano.
7£ Octaves.
Built to Wear.
Guaranteed 7 years.
Free Catalogues.
k PALING ltd!
338 Geo.-st.,
Sydney.
Pianos
Sold
on
Easy
Terms.
Catalogues Free,
W. H. Paling' ®. Co., Ltd..
338 GEORGE. ST., SYDNEY.
rJri
m
A Fine
Violin
£1 :11 : 6
©»<} "STUDENT’S**
MODEL.
Complete with Bow,
Case, Resin and Set
of Extra Strings.
Post Free to any
town in N.S.W.
£1 : 11 : 6.
Write for handsome
illustrated catalogue
post free.
PALING’S
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
VITADATIO
STILL TRIUfIPHANT.
4
CONSTIPATION CURED.
Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —While in Ballarat last Christmas I was in the
theatre and saw your advertisement, and, suffering from
constipation, thought I would give your remedy a trial,
and I can assure you that I am now perfectly cured. I
did intend writing to you before, but better late than
never. I have sent letters to all my friends in Ballarat
about it, and all I say is, that I wish you every success
with the remedy. Yours faithfully,
WILTON CAREY.
For further particulars ,
S. A. FA LMEII,
Head Office: 431) Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Oonnell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
n
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
281 George St.
( oyp. Hunter St.)
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
The World’s Wonder.
g
5 BEAUTIFUL ARTICLES for
ONLY 7s. 6d., viz. :
1 Gentleman’s R. Gold Albert.
1 Gentleman’s R. Gold Set
Links and Studs.
1 Lady’s R. Gold Muff Chain.
1 Lady’s R. Gold Bracelet.
1 Lady’s R. Gold Brooch.
This genuine parcel will be sent
POST FREE to any part of the
Colony on receipt of motley or
postal order for 7s. 6d.
If not satisfied money will be returned.
This offer is only to advertise our firm.
THE BRITISH NOVELTY COY.,
Box 343, G.P.0., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Box 918, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH.
Price, 6d. ; Posted, Bd.
THE
ROYAL ROAD to MUSK
It has been said that “There is no royal road to
learning.” The one exception—of latter-day creation—
is learning to play the piano by means of
THE
PIANOLA.
The Piano, a barren investment to most of those who buy it,
and only mastered after years of patient toil, is changed by the
Pianola’s touch into an instrument fertile with possibilities for
everyone’s enjoyment.
Music assumed a new aspect for the majority of mankind when the
Pianola was introduced.
From an art wholly beyond the reach of any but the favored few, it
was transformed into an inexhaustible source of pleasure available to all.
The Pianola develops, as nothing else will do, whatever of musical
taste the individual possesses.
It is so simple that with it anyone
can learn to play the Piano in
a half-hour’s practice
Write For Catalog B, an Illustrated Booklet explaining
all about it, or call at our Warerooms. Informal Recitals
daily.
The Pianola may be purchased on terms if eo desired.
The word “PIANOLA ” is Copyrighted, and the Instrument
is Patented. It is sold only by
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ;
185 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SOLE AGENTS for the Famous “BROADWOOD ” PIANOS.
The Victorian Railways.
“ Skeeter,” on Vic. railway management: —
“W.J.8.” (B. 9/3/’O5) points to the-prosperity of the
Vic. railways under present control. But how is it done?
By doing' a great wrong to do a little right. Any man
could get similar results if permitted to adopt the same
tactics, and especially if harvests were always as good as
the last. An instance : A station-master on the Gippsland
line, at a place where a lot of dairy produce is handled,
receives something under Bs. per day. He has to help load
and unload trucks, oil points, fill, clean, and light lamps,
clean outhouses, sweep platform and waiting-rooms, and,
in fact, be general rouse-about. In addition, he has the care
of the postal and telegraph business, manages the savings
bank, attends to Crown lands and old age pension busi-
ness. For these duties the Government allows the Com-
missioners £BO per year ; but instead of the department
engaging a porter to assist in the duties, they sweat the
unfortunate S.M. ; it is necessary for him to work con-
siderable overtime without receiving any of the extra pay
“W.J.8.” alludes to. On the St. Arnaud line carriages
are rarely, if ever, clean, not through neglect of the ser-
vants, but on account of their scarcity. At night it is
absolutely impossible to read, the light being a mere
flicker from a kerosene lamp. Trains here, and on every
other line my business compels me to travel on, are un-
punctual with unfailing regularity, owing nearly always
to undermanning. That men have to work from 10 to 18
hours daily proves my statement. Thus working expenses
are cut down to pay interest.
“F.”, on the same subject:—
Re the “ Plain English.” paragraph (23/2/’O5) on sweating-
in the Victorian Railway Department and “ Mayne
Lyne’s ” charge of exaggeration therein (B. !)/3/’O4), it is
a pity “ M.L.” didn’t give particulars of the alleged
exaggeration. In the only particular in which he directly
denies statements—the sweating or girls—he is distinctly
wrong. Melbourne Herald of 10/1/’O5 stated categorically
that—among others—a widow and her young daughter
worked a suburban station from 7 a.m. to nearly 12 p.m.,
doing all the work that was previously done by a
station master at £l5O and a gatekeeeper, for seven
days a week, “the mother and daughter getting
2s.' a day each;" that another widow and her two
daughters ran another suburban station from 0 a.m. to
12 p.m., the mother getting 4s. weekly, the daughters 2s.
each. Commissioner Tait wa3 interviewed next day, and
his official reply (in the Herald of 11/l/’O5) admitted that
“the wives and female relatives of employees” do the
work specified “at a remuneration of from Od. to 4s. 6d.
per day, including Sundays.” Mr. Tait further told the
Herald interviewer that “ rates less than 4s. a day are only
paid where the females are relatives of existing employees. ”
Let “ Mayne Lyne ” visit Clayton (a goods station on the
main Gippsland line) or Glen bluntly, Ormond, M'Kinnon,
or Highett on the Mordialloc line, where he will see girls
of about 16 regularly doing all (he work usually and pre-
viously done by stationmasters and porters.
—
The Sketch. —A week ago we were in the
grip of Polar winter, and to-day we find it in our
ungrateful constitution's%o grumble at being suffo-
cated in sudden summer. Certainly the atmos-
pheric authorities are not given to do things by
halves in this island. We are plunged in snow or
grilled in equatorial heat within a short eight
days, but with no intermediary gradations of
dawning summer. What one has chiefly enjoyed,
I think, during the past eight days has been the
time spent in one’s bath, and if to that much-
esteemed luxury is added a dash of Scrubb’s
revivifying Ammonia, life' even at ninety in the
shade becomes brisk and bearable. But not alone
in the bath does the .indispensable Scrub!) shed a
beneficent influence. The butler’s pantry welcomes
him with equal emotion. How bright he makes
the silver shine, how white the cambric handker-
chiefs or laces entrusted to his care, how grease
spots vanish and cleanliness prevails even in dirty
London under the immortal auspices of Scrubb !
If anything were missing from the lives of those
picturesque ancients whom Alma-Tadema loves to
reincarnate, it must surely haye been a bottle, or
rather a puncheon, for they bathed much—of
Scrubb’s Cloudy Ammonia.*


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
Colonial Mutual I>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices * * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,814,795.
Policies issued 94,657 assuring £28,394,068,
Amounts paid to Policyholderß, £3,267,019.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Queensland national gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,213 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 42,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS. 12
Months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum. 2 Years
and over, at the rate of 41 per cent, per annum.
Directors.- — Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J 1,1 II I TICI). u
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,539
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175.812
RESERVE FUND(lnvested in Government Stock) 64,00 C
£697,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mnerr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500.000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
lotal Capital ... .. £2,000,000
file Dank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... £709,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 900 ... £350.000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : lion. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Piiilp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, i). Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
.M ‘Fablank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Berth, A. W.
Earquiiar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne,
CAPITAL PAID-UP 190,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND and UNDIVIDED
PROFITS (used in Company’s business) £15,122 8 1
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.';
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant, Manage!
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,370,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,370,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaiirin, lvt., M. L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.LC.
‘ Sir James R. Fairfax, lvt.
Richard Binnik. Esq.
H. Montagus; Faithfull. Esq.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Brandies in all the Australian States, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Xae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency' of other banks ; issues drafts, circulai
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circulai
-Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping.
KT. X>. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*T\vin-Serew Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Eve>-vFour Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
♦PRINZ SIGISMUND, 3300 tons.. 15th APRIL.
"WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 13th MAY.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 10th'JUNE.
*Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
esr
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Models £2.10t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Dims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
part In Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
'Tyres, Accessories, Sporting Gooi s &
'Sewing Machines Half Usual l’rices.
’Write for Catalogs and Special Of ■
fer using sufflcii nt foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO, U.S.A. and LIVEUI’OOL, ENGLAND. -
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
fMILTIADES
MORAVIAN
SOPHOCLES
T. F. Spalding'
A. Simpson
H. A. Schleman
Noon, Mar. 25
Noun, April 15
Noon, May 6
‘Discharging at Durban Wharf. tTwin-Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &e., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
JDalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
gs
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about
19th APRIL,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC,
and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
Via San Francisco, St. Louis, Chicago, Niagara Falls or the Capitol (Washington).
Pares to Any Destination as Cheap as Any Other First-Class Line. Printed Matter and All Information Free
‘NivAitia ivatiD ‘vovnvd ‘voidawv of aoiAtias aaoNassvd asvj
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
!
YOUR WINTER CRUISE.
'OU will soon be deciding' where to spend your
Winter Holidays. We suggest to you this :
Will you winter in some well-known, much-
frequented tourist district, or will you spend it in
the charming islands of the Western Pacific? Do
you know that a trip will work out at less than Ten
Shillings per day ? “ HOUDA Y HINTS ” will
be mailed to you on receipt of your address.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. —.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
efg
sdf
aaiNnoosia
sins
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress U ury.
nsr.s.'w.
fflont de pete D.#l. btd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
*74: CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
A GOLD OR Silver watch free.
SEND NO MONEY.
gs
We hereby undertake to give one
of our famous Gold or Silver
Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman, or Child
who sends ns the correct reading
of the following Puzzle..
[~D**T M**S T*»S C****E |
The only condition is that, If
your answer is correct, you pur*
chase one of our SOLID STER-
LING SILVER CHAINS, or one
of our Gold-filled Warrant* d
Chains, to wear with the Watch.
Simply forward your answer
an<f enclose stamped addressed
envelope, so that we may inform
vou if you have won the Watch.
We are making this offer solely
with the object of introducing
and advertising our goods.
Forward your letter to our address..
GOLDSMITHS* COLONIAL CO., Pitt St., Sydney.
Reynolds’s
Newspaper
Keeps the Democratic Flag
flying all over the World.
RBA.3D IT.
JOHN DICKS - - - Strand, London, W.C.
CANADIAM-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL.RED” ROUTE.
New Twin-Screw Steamer,
MANUKA, Sails 17th April.
NO OTHER ROUTE HOME OFFERS SUCH
ATTRACTIONS AS THAT via CANADA.
PACIFIC as SMOOTH & as STILL as a LAKE.
NO ENERVATING HEAT.
NATIVE LIFE SEEN IN FIJI AND FANNING
ISLAND.
Honolulu the Paradise of the Pacific.
Charmingly Picturesque Scenes
in the Rockies.
NIAGARA FALLS, NEW YORK and QUEBEC
on the “ ALL=RED ” ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS— MAY 15, and EVERY FOUR
WEEKS THEREAFTER.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Creswick Hotel
Bligh & Bent
Sts., Sydney.
Excellent Bachelors’ Quarters. A Real English
Home. TERMS MODERATE.
PROPRIETRESS-
MRS. M. J. CHANCELLOR.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
, Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), The Three Donkies (a good joke), the Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character-
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s hove
Bond (a good catch), the Pocket Companion or Combina-
tion Comet Candle and .Matchbox. The Wizard’s lting or
the Disappearing-Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., llaymarket.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian}
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Buninyong, Saturday
Next, March 25, at 1 p.m.
S.S. Kanowna, Wednesday,
March 29, at 1 p.m.
BRISBANE,
MAC KAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday Next,
„ March 25, at Ip. ui.
S.S. Buninyonpr, April 1.
Tiest and Cheapest lloate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first. Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can he ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, C BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARtt.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract witilths
French Government., calling at M ELBOUBNIO, ADU-
LAID It, FREMANTLE, COLOM 150, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will bedispatolied MONTHLY ai iollows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, Indio, Cm no
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLI3U
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meed
the passengersfor London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIEIt DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and n.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CON VENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. 00. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt;st,, Sydney
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDKTBY.
Hotel*.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
Jyj'EYVLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
(England),
HOTEL
Portland Place &. Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
‘ T SAY, Jim ! Where did you stay when you went over
to Melbourne last ? ”
“ Oh ! at the
"FALSTAFF Restaurant
SPEKCER STREET,
Cypoattßailway Offices.
I found it all right, clean and comfortable, handy to
railways and boats. Could get a hot bath when I wanted
it, and could be called atiy time by Night Porter.
Smoking Room ; 6 a.m. Breakfast. Board and Resi-
dence, Its. and £'.. Single Bedrooms, Is. 6d. Double
Bedrooms, 3s. Meals, fc>d. and 9d. Try it.”
A Limited Humber of Single Bedrooms are available
at Is. per night, or 5~. weekly, with every
convenience. Tel. 1281.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will And even comrot u and convenience at —
MRS- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade.
SI. HILDA.
r PHE Largest ana uesi-Appointed Boarding-house in
■*- the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower Ilian licensed hotels. City, j-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.


WALTHAM WATCHES
:
/
N
✓
V
STEM WINDING, LEVER.
WALTHAM WATCHES ARE THE
MOST DURABLE AND ACCURATE
POCKET TIMEPIECES IT IS
POSSIBLE TO CONSTRUCT.
TWELVE MILLION IN USE.
ALL GUARANTEED BY
AMERICAN WALTHAM
WATCH COMPANY,
[WALTHAM, MASS., U.S.A,
jaaemssam
£5OOO Worth of
BIRTHDAY
RINGS
i Watches, Bracelets, &c„ given away
I to introduce New Life Electine Reme-
-* dies. YOU pay nothing. Simply send
your Name and Address on a Post Card, and we will send you 2 Boxes of each
o: oil! jour famous Klectlre R' medics, to sell at i/- per box. A grand remedy
and cure for all impure and weak conditions of the blood,
kidney and liver trouble, constipation, weak nervous dis-
orders—a tonic and life-builder. Tney are easy to sell,
as each customer who buys a box of pills from you re-
ceives a prize ticket, which entitles them to a handsome,
piece of Tat)'e Mlv rw ie. Send us your order at once
and we will send the pills and prize tickets, post paid.
When sold, send ns the money, and we will send you
I the Birthday Ring
and Mizpah Brooch,
or any other prize
you are entitled to. Remember, you are selling
an article of merit and in return you receivt
honest prizes. You take no risk. Goods re
turuable if not sold. Our Pills are genuine
carefully manufactured from the very besi
drugs. Beware of imitations.
ELECTINE MEDICINE CO., Ash St., Sydney, N.S,W.
xtra Prize. Send your order at on
and wr will giv • you for promptness
with the lucky Hirthday Wing. an exquisite
oid Gold Cased Mizpah Rmoch. Re-
member, if you w ite us now, the brooch
will be giv- n you h ree as an exir. prize,
in addition to the Isir hd>iy Ring.
To each month is dedicated
a precious stone. Any per-
son wearing the enchanted
stone of their birth moi th
in-uies them great and un-
failing good luck.
Thus to .Tsmiary is deii-
cated the garnet; Feoruary.
amethjst; March, blood-
stone ; April, diamond. Ac
erg
mm
se
Why You
Should Buy4he New Oldsmobile
It is the simplest and most reliable runabout made—2s,ooo now
in use; the light car that has been driven S.o'lO miles across
the American continent; the only one in its class that took the
highest awards in the English Reliability Runs in 1903.
Seven proven liorse-power, 3 lr,oh tires, no gaskets, weighs 1,100 lbs.,
splendid lull climber. Increased power, speed and strength over former
models.
Send to nearest agent for handsome catalogue showing Olds-
mobile light Tonneau Car, Touring Runabout and Delivery Car.
OldsJVlotcmJvVorks, Detroit. Michigan. U. S. A.
Australasian Agents : Duncan & Fraser, Adelaide, S.A.; Hall & Warden,
Melbourne, Vic.; American Motor Car & Vehicle Co., Perth, W.A.; James
Smith & Sons, Brisbane, Q.; A. C. Webster & Sons, Hobart, _Tas.;
W. A. Ryan & Co., Auckland, N.Z.
1
t*.
# #
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. Tney have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
ptrting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
with uit pain or griping. They are the best known
rein dy tor Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition ot ill-health
kno.vn ns “run-down ” <r “out of sorts.” Females
pf every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway's Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
*
❖
$
rgs
✓ *
* V
MWHq
u> \>
Thousands Owe
Their Lives to the
Skill of This
Wonderful Doctor.
+
Seems to Possess Strange
and Mysterious Power over
Disease.
Offers His Services Free to
the Sick and Afflicted,
Distance no Barrier .
For the past three years accounts have come from
America of the most astonishing nature, regarding
marvellous cures that were being performed daily by the
fame us physician and scientist, Dr. James W. Kidd.'
At first these stories were received with considerable
doubt, but there continued to come reports of men and
m
women being restored to health after years of suffering.
Chronic and so-called incurable invalids were brought
back to perfect health. There seemed no affliction or
disease hut what he might cure. Thousands of patients
were treated by the doctor until his name and the fame
of his marvellous remedies spread all over the civilized
world. Investigation has proved every assertion made by
Dr. Kidd. Some of the stories told and letters received
from grateful patients seem to indicate that this man’s
remedies possess a mysterious power over disease. No
matter how severe the case, how chronic, or how long
standing, what other men have said or failed to do. These
are the cases he especially solicits, because they give him
a chance to prove his superior ability.
When asked the secret of his success, the doctor
modestly answers that it is partly due to the wonderful
remedies which he uses and partly to the careful attention
given each case. He treats patients all over the civilized
world by mail, and seems equally as successful as though
they were present in his office. His greatest ambition is
to give every sick, afflicted and suffering man and woman
in the world a chance to try his wonderful treatment. In
an interview recently the doctor said: “I believe that
I have discovered a way to relieve most of the suffering
from sickness and disease in the world, and I believe that
it is my duty as far as possible to make this fact known to
all. For this reason, lam offering to send a free treat-
ment to every applicant, rich or poor, no matter where
they live, no matter what their disease. lam not a rich
man. I cannot afford to always give my medicine away,
but I am going to continue as long as possible or until
every afflicted person has had a chance to try and satisfy
themselves without expending one penny.” Do you
mean that you will send treatment absolutely' free to every
one who applies? was asked. “That is exactly what I
mean. Any sick or afflicted person who will write to me
and describe their condition may have a trial of this treat-
ment entirely free. There are no conditions, no restric-
tion. Distance is no barrier. I cure as readily thousands
of miles away as in my office. A letter does just as well
as a personal visit.”
The above statement appeared in all the leading
American papers and from there to the English press. As
a result Dr. Kidd’s mail has been flooded with applications
for free treatment. All have been answered promptly,
but still they continue to come. For the benefit of his
thousands of patients in the British Empire the doctor has
been compelled to establish an office in London. To
secure a free treatment, it is only necessary to address Dr.
James W. Kidd, 486 Saracen Buildings, Snow Hill, London,
E. 0., being sure to describe your case. Remember that
the doctor treats all diseases from the simplest and
easiest cured to the so-called incurable and chronic
afflictions. There is'no disease that he may not cure.
In view of Dr. Kidd’s marvellous success, his standing
among America’s most famous physicians, his reputation
for honesty and integrity, this offer affords a remarkable
opportunity to all who are sick and in need of medical
help. It means a chance to get well. It means the
opinion and advice of one of the world’s most famous and
successful physicians on your case absolutely free.
The Illustrated Medical News
says “ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.”
I
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, sntl the AGED.
BEKQEE’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CEEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE,
Benoer’s FoDDhas attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con*
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.’*
Griffith and Allen, Patent Attorney's of
Sy,'-icy, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne —(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
Bush fires start all ways. A farmer near
Bendigo (Vic.) recently was scarifying his land,
and, being a tired farmer, set fire to the straw
collected round the tines to save the trouble of
cleaning them. The horses just then bolted,
broke through the rail fence into a grass paddock,
galloped across in front of a trailing lire, and
finally brought up at their own stable. A thou-
sand acres of grass lost.
“Sardonyx”: Not generally enough
known that the sun’s rays, focussed through a
clear glass vessel of water, will fire inflammable
material. Remember reading a yarn in which a
1 iwyer secured the acquittal of one charged with
shooting his mate, by proving that the cartridge
was exploded through the concentration of the
sun’s rays, pa; sing through a water bottle on a
s lelf upon the breech of the rifle, which was
s ispended over the mantel.
Professor MetclmikofF, of the Pasteur
Institute, Paris, is trying hard to bring about a
match between the biggest bov and the biggest
girl on earth. Charles Watts, a Kentish boy of
14, is lift, high, weighs 3301 b., and, out of soiiocl
hours, can do two men’s work on his father’s farm.
M. Wilhoit, Kentucky, aged nine, is 4ft. Din.
tall, 4(iin. round the bust, and weig lis 2301 b. The
professor proposes to marry them in about six
years. His idea is that the world needs more big
people, and that, if he had a sufficiently large herd
of giants to start with, in time 2ft. in height and
a corresponding weight would be added to the
dimensions of civilised peoples. He has a number
of other big boy and girl matches in hand.
r _ “ Valhalla ” : I was at a rustic hop in
Tas., given in honor of returned Cohentingenters.
I found it the custom for every Billjim to station
himself opposite the lady of his choice, with Ins
best foot forward. At the other side of the room
each girl sat with body bent and foot out ready for
starting when the M.C. should shout “Larncers! ”
Then there was a thunder of stamping feet, ai:d
they met in the middle in what I took for a hope-
less scrum. ; but they arranged themselves prompt y
into sets, those who were crowded-out retiring to
await the next rush. As the night advanced, and
the mud dried and fell off the boots, such a dust
arose every time that the lights could be seen only
dimly, and the heart of the scrum, was black. The
outside ones, dropping back, beaten, emerged
through gray haze.
Concerning the sale of some historic
properties :
On March 3rd passed under the hammer some Sydney
properties, whi< h have been closely guarded by one
family for over a century. o:ie 2045-acre property, at
Prospect, was known as ■-•The King’s .Gift,” from the fact
that Governor King'granted it to Colonel Johnstone, of the
102nd Regiment, in 1804, for suppressing a convict risk g
at Castle Hill. When Colonel Johnstone’s daughter,
Blanche, married Major Weston, of the Indian army,
he gave King’s grant as a marriage portion. The
daughter, Mrs. Weston, died recently, close up to 100.
“The King’s Gift” brought £BBVS 12s. The other pr -
perties sold the same day in the Weston estate consisted
of an hotel and four shops in Lower George-st., close to the
Bullktin office, and a freehold in Pitt-street for £1 i,s .4,
the total sale amounting to £20,249. The George-;tree';
land was granted Major Johnstone very early in la t
century, and may be pointed out, almost unoccupied, on
pictures of Sydney published prior to 1810. ‘it was
situated right opposite the old gaol and Gallows Hill.
Treasurer Turner lias at last pricked the
bladder which Bent blew up and called “ Federal
extravagance.” Turner shows that, if the Vic.
transferred departments were run on the Old basis,
the cost Would have been—lool, £877,020; 1002,
£881,074; 1003, £880,774; 1904, £887,621. But wht n
Federation was just about to happen, Bents
.State, like nearly every other State, pro-
vided for liberal civil-service increments, pen-
sions, &c. The Commonwealth has not only
paid these debts passed on to it by States
that thought they were being extra smart,
but has also paid for post-offices and things for
which the States used to lean on Cohen. And
that bit of trickery on the States’ part and bit of
honesty on the Commonwealth’s part account for
practically the whole of the “tremendous differ-
ence” that Bent bellowed about. Finally, Treas.
Turner notifies that in future Bent will have to
bellow in detail or he will deliberately mistake
him for the cow h; takes off his hat to.


m
!
I WM&M.
see
~
M J. MOLONEY,
Tattersaf/’s Club,
SYDNEY .
COMMISSIONS Executed.
LONGEST MARKET RATES
SaP®* GUARANTEED.
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations.
Price Lists forwarded on Application •
Address all Correspondence—
M, J, MOLONEY, TattersalLs Club, Sydney,
ECZEMA.
Drive the Poisons Out of the Blood bv
Taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Boot Pills.
Eczema is the outcome of over-heated blood
heavily charged with foreign matter, causing the
skin to become hot and dry. The arms and legs
become swollen and inflamed, causing irritation
almost beyond control. The skin cracks and
breaks, and sores appear on the face and body.
The only remedy is to cleanse the blood, to remove
the impurities by the aid of the liver. Blood
diseases must be removed through the stomach,
superficial applications will never purify the blood.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood-
purifier. They accelerate the action of the liver
and kidneys, which drive out impurities, aid
digestion, and nourish the blood. They are a
positive and permanent cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.*
er
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., EEDFEEN, SYDNEY.
SPORING NOTIONS
The last if the special semi-finals on Saturday
night added six more to those already qualified to start in
the Sydney Thousand, making-11 in all. Lawson won his
heat with a pretty good sprint and sound judgment,
which landed him home nearly three lengths ahead of
IV. Palmer. In the second heat Andersen, the Dane, was
the last man on the 40yds. mark, with Maorilander Arnst
10yds. ahead. Murphy was another 10yds. in front, and
then there was a gap of 30yds. to the blue and white jer-
seys of Horder and Brook. From the start the pace was
decidedly fast, and Anderson closed up on Arnst. In the
last half-lap the field had bunched beautifully when
Murphy crashed down and rolled on to the grass, striking
another wheel as he did so and throwing the back men
out of their stride. Horder, Brook and Harris (the last
on the 120yds.) came with a great rush, and before Arnst
and Anderson could get going again the race was won,
and they had lost their chance of starting for the world’s
greatest cycling prize.
* * v *
The starters in the final of the Sydney Thousand
Handicap (one mile) next Monday night are: Floyd
MacFarland, Ivor Lawson, Thorwald Ellegaard, all
scratch ; G. Farley, 10 yards; R. W. Morgan and W.
Palmer, 60 yards ; G. Horder and O. H. Brook, 90 yards ;
E. T. Harris, 110 yards; E. Bestel, 130 yards ; W. Lear,
140 yards. If Ellegaard can travel at anything like the
same speed he did at the end of the five mile scratch on
Saturday night, no one else has got the ghost of a hope
of annexing the big money. Unfortunately for backers
and himself, Ellegaard’s speed bursts seem to be a gift of
the gods, and capricious gods at that.
* » * *
The “Newtown” five mile scratch, at Sydney
Cricket Ground, on Saturday night, was a fine race. If
MacFarland would always ride as gamely as he did in that
contest he would be the most popular rider in the world.
The other feature of the race was the amazing burst of
speed with which Ellegaard finished. They swished
round to a beautiful flying start, and at the crack of the
pistol a white jersey with a blue sash (Hagney) rushed
away in front. Green stars on a black ground (Kett) was
leading strongly, when the sapphire blue of MacFarland,
the hideous white cap of Farley and the Houston’s brown
cross came up like the wind, and, sweeping past grandly,
almost got a break on the field. They paced one another
desperately, but the field came closer with little spurts
of dazzling speed. A tremendous rush brought Scheps
right up. One by one the tail men were dropping into
the lake of gloom that broods in the midst of the track.
Once more MacFarland with Farley broke away and it
looked as though they would escape at last, "and the
leading riders in the main bunch sprinted away after
them, leaving the back bunch to its fate. Half a
lap behind with only one to go, Ellegaard and Lawson
took the pacing, and Rutt brought it right up to the
scoring board, withEllegaardlyingsecondlast on thebank.
All in a moment he was moving at dazzling speed. He
simply streaked past half the field, which leaped for his
wheel, and, blocked momentarily, was held in the ruck
opposite the bowling-green. There was a resounding
clang—MacFarland’s wheel had collapsed, and he and
Walker shot yards along the track with the impetus. Up
the bank shot Ellegaard, and at the first members’ stand
was clear of the field, going like an arrow, with the pale-
blue jersey of Lawson hanging- to him like a pallid
shadow, Rutt toiling behind. But the world’s champion
was not in it; the Dane simply flew away from him and
crossed the line a winner by yards.
* * * »
A feature of the last cycle race at Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday night was MacFarland’s
terrific fall. How on earth he escaped with his life, let
alone without injury, is a marvel, considering that
Walker rode over him, and the long American slid along
the track for yards. People waited to see the corpse
carried off, instead of which it kicked the pedals off its
feet, flung the wrecked bike onto the grass, and then sat
up and made remarks while it watched Ellegaard’s light-
ning sprint home. Murphy, who had fallen previously,
was badly hurt, but at time of writing is hard at work
training. Said that he is Australia’s champion faller.
* * * •
Tho final of tlie 1904 Sydney Thousand was run
off in the Banco Court before Chief Justice Darley last
week. There were only two competitors—Corbett and
O’Brien—and Barristers Holman and Hall paced the
latter so well from start to finish that Corbett never
had a show. The Chief Justice revealed himself
as quite a sport, and held that it was of
the utmost importance in matters of sport that the
decisions of the domestic tribunals be upheld. The law
courts were not for the purpose of reviewing the decisions
of controlling bodies, and even if the decision of the
League had been wrong, the Court would not upset it as
long as the inquiry was fairly and properly conducted.
* * * *
The Summer Nights Amusement syndicate,
which runs the Sydney Thousand cycling meeting, must
be a constant source of amusement to itself, at anyrate.
It originally meant to run the final of the big race on
Wednesday, March 22. For some reason not unconnected
with the hope of profit, the final was put off to the
following Saturday night—quite at the last minute. This
left Wednesday night without an attraction. Oppor-
tunely it was discovered that Ellegaard could not sleep at
nights for brooding over the fact that Lawson had beaten
him in Melbourne. Luckily, Lawson was hugging the
thought that happy chance would some day bring him
against Ellegaard again. True, they had met on 35 or 40
occasions already within the past dozen weeks, and are
booked for many more meetings if public patronage to
the game keeps up. But the S.N.A.S., like the philan-
thropist it is, couldn’t be happy until it had satisfied
their thirst for battle and arranged a fierce struggle for
the vacant date. And the amusing- committee has now
discovered that Saturday-night racing interferes with
the shop-keeping business, and intends, at time of writing,
to run the final of Sydney Thousand on Monday evening
next, March 27.
* * * *
Judging by the way Ellegaard beat Lawson and
the rest on Saturday and Monday, barring some unlooked-
for trouble over the pacing by which the front-markers
should get away, no one else has a hope of the Sydney
Thousand.
* * * *
The N.S.W. cricket Eleven which is to visit
Hobart commenced a match against the next best at
Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday afternoon, and put
up a remarkable performance. Having won the toss the
Eleven proceeded to the sticks, and Waddy and M‘Kay
faced the leather. Waddy went out for a miserable 31.
No less than four of the Eleven made the sign of the
duck, and two went out for two and three respectively,
and the innings closed for 124. Sullivan took five wickets
for 44 runs, and Grounds three for 25. When the Next
Best got to work, two of them disappeared without
having left a number on the board; and at the close of
play seven of their wickets had fallen for 141. It is not
uncommon for players who are about to journey to a far
country to make exhibitions of themselves. Probably
one of the worst was that of Murdoch, who, previous to
the departure of the 1884 team, was bowled three times
running for a duck. His first four matches in England
saw him score nine in the first, 11 in the second, and a
pair of ducks in the other two. Then he scored 25 and
53 not out against M.C.0., and, getting his tail right up,
stayed at the wickets for nearly two whole days, made a
then record score of 211, and finished with the boss average
of the tour, to wit, 30’62. So there’s still hope for the
boys who are going to meet the wild Tasmaniacs.
* * * *
The fact that no trundler in N.S.W. first-grade
matches succeeded in obtaining 50 wickets during the
season, although many got in the forties, shows up the
absence of a bowler entitled to the name of champion. At
present there’s too great a desire to become “ all-round ”
players ; and the cricketer who desires to become an “ all-
round champion ” often becomes an all-round mug.
There is need of a few young players who would confine
their energies to bowling.
* * * *
“De Masse”: (But we don’t want a flood of
this kind of thing.—Ed.) This year’s Australian XI. has
15 players, including Manager Laver. This means that
the team consists of 16 elevens, no two exactly alike. In
each of these elevens the possible orders of going in
number 30,916,800. Every cricketer knows that a dif-
ferent order of going in often means quite another XI.
So with the order in which bowlers are worked.
This Australian team is said to lack variety in
pace, but the skipper, with five bowlers in the XI.,
has 120 different sequences to work on, with six
bowlers he has 720, with seven he has 5040. The 39,916,800
orders of batting above mentioned also applies when any
XI. is being photographed. The man with the camera
can place any XI. that number of ways—if he has suffi-
cient enthusiasm, and the Australians don’t get tired or
thirsty. And when the fifteen are going to be intro-
duced to a duke, they would want a week’s notice to
decide what order they’ll step up in, for their choice
runs to 128,314,368,000.
* * * *
Armstrong, who divides with Noble the position
of being the best all-round man in the Australian XL, in
what are humorously described as the “ Test Matches ” in
Maoriland, made 126 and 67 (each time not out), and his
bowling figures were 10 for fifty odd in the first match,
and 6 for 60 in the only innings he bowled in, in the
second. Armstrong, on whose leg-breaks the team will
depend for variety in the attack, is about the most im-
proved man in the team.
» * * *
Adelaide has just opened its fourth suburban
grass-pitched “ oval”—every recreation-ground is an Oval
in S.A. All four are the outcome of less than ten years of
electorate cricket.
* * * *
The Maoriland figures suggest that tho Aus-
tralians will mainly depend on Olem Hill, Trumper, Duff,
Noble and Armstrong. Of the new men, Cotter did but
fairly considering the opposition, and Gehrs did not get
going. Though M‘Leod and Gregory each made 80 once,
they were mostly below par. Of them, and also of Hop-
kins and Howell, it is to be hoped that they are conserving
their energies for more interesting occasions.
* * * *
S. Australian Cricket Association has con-
sidered Australian Board of Control rules as passed by
N.S.W. and Victorian governing bodies, and objects
strongly to the provision that gives each association the
profits, and saddles it with a share of the losses, over test
matches played in each State. S.A.’s proposed amend-
ment provides for 85 per cent, of profits going to the
association in whose State the match occurs, and the
balance to the other States ; and of the losses, two-fifths
to be made up by Victoria and N.S.W., and one-fifth
by S.A.
» * * «
The attention of J. Carruthers, who declares
that Federal authority shall not steal N.S.W. territory, is
drawn to another danger. Every cricket club in Maori-
land is raising funds to import Bulli soil from N.S.W.,
and, perhaps, unless Joseph interferes and puts his foot
down, the Bulli district will be carted bodily to Maoriland.
j * * *
Yernon Hansford, the young Victorian left-
hand cricketer, has scored, including Pennant and inter-
state matches, over 1000 runs this season, and stands in
lonely pre-eminence at the top of the bat. There ought
to be some changes in the constitution of the Vic. State
team next season.
* * * *
Umpire Bannerman no-balled Cotter repeatedly
for dragging his foot over the crease in the M.L.-Australian
first “test.” So Noble put Cotter on at the other end,
and the no-balling ceased suddenly. Bannerman is an
umpire of good qualifications, and, when the news reaches
the dear old Mother-in-law country, there’ll be keen eyes
kept on Cotter’s bone-breakers.
* * * *
Saturday saw three swimmers who hold many
world’s records between them swimming in the same
bath at Rushcutters’ Bay, Sydney. In the same water,
March 12th, 1904, B. Reran had covered the 880yds. in
llmiri. 29 4-ssec., and it was understood on Saturday that
last year’s figures were to be rendered obsolete. Pace-
makers were provided—they called them competitors, but
that was just a little floating fiction. Reran moved
through the water like a torpedo. One after another all
the “competitors,” bar one, were passed, and the last
one, Dickenson, who “ won the race,” led him home.
Reran got through the distance in llmin. 11 3-ssee.
* * * «
Possible Kerans revealed in Sydney swimming
this season are Grammar School lad Ross Garland (said to
have done half-a-mile in 12.30); young W. Dickenson,
who used the exacting “ crawl ” stroke from beginning to
end of last Saturday’s half-mile (wherein Reran broke his
own world’s record), and finished in 12,37 4-5 ; and 16-years
old J. Phillips, of Ring’s School, Parramatta, who has
covered the “hundred” in 1.2, and double that distance
in 2.20.
Victorian champion swimmer, A. L. Young,
knocked that State’s 300yds. record out by 20 4-ssec. on
Saturday, when he traversed the distance in 4.9 1-5 at
Middle Brighton. Still there’s a wide gap between the
speed of the Victorian and N.S. Wales swimmers. NSW
figures for 300yds. are 3. 31 4-5.
* * * *
“G. 8. ”: N.S.W. swimmers are undoubtedly
equal, if not superior, to all that the rest of the world can
produce, but it would almost appear that we cannot take
some recent records very seriously. Swimming at Itush-
cutters Bay, the other day, Keran, the Sobraon boy, tied
with Lane’s English record of 2min. 28 3-ssec. for 220yds.
and, in his disappointment, stated that he could beat it
in a shorter bath. Now, as everyone knows, a practised
swimmer in turning can cover several yards with his kick-
off in half the time that would be occupied in straight-
away swimming. For this reason, British swimming
authorities only allow so many turns in each specified dis-
tance ; were it otherwise, a so-called, swimming match
would be a series of plunges instead of what it professed
to be. It would, therefore, be interesting to know how
recent records would fare under British computation.
“B.”: The swimming folk have apparently
firmly decided to copy the cyclists and call their club
meetings “ carnivals.” Now why carnivals? Have read
and heard of the carnivals of Rome and other Old World
places. There is the Flower Carnival of Nice, and the
“Carnival of Venice,” which is played by a neighbor’s
child on a German piano, not well, but often. The
descriptions given of these functions don’t tally at all with
the local carnival. A mournful procession of cyclists,
earning, honestly it may be, their appearance money, is
not a “ carnival.” Nor is it proper to say that a ’bus-load
of small boys, splashing' up and down somebody’s baths,
makes up a “ carnival.”
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby Union has decided to put off
the visit of a Canadian Rugby team for another year, as
inter-State matches, the Australian team’s tour of M.L.,
and competition football will fill the season.
» * * *
Maoriland’s haughty refusal to send to Sydney
half a football team to assist in laying out the last British
visitors is, no doubt, at the bottom of the cold indiffer-
ence with which the N.S.W. Union treats the suggestion
that the Maoriland team for Britain should rake in a few
shekels in Sydney as it passes through.
* » * *
“Soccer” football is lifting its despised head
in Maoriland, the very stronghold and central keep of
Rugby. Announced that a M.L. team of “Soccers” will
tour N.S. W. the coming season. In N.S.W. followers of
the Association game are very enthusiastic.
* * * *•
The 2-year-old Sirnoda (a son of Simmer), who
won a race at. Caulfield last Saturday, promises to show
some improving form before the season ends. At
Flemington, t’other week, the youngster was once or
twice backed and ran disappointingly, but the Caulfield
win suggests that Sirnoda is a pretty good one when he
has not been too carefully “wound up” for a gallop.
Starting at 8 to 1 in a small field, the black half-brother
to Dividend came with a pretty run and finished like a
racehorse. Also, Haloya made amends for his Flemington
failures by winning the South Yarra Handicap (six
furlongs) in 1.15 J.
* * * *
How some racehorses are found. Little while
back a Corowa (N.S.W.) storekeeper had a nag running in
a delivery van and sold him because he got uncontrollable
occasionally. Purchaser discovered the animal had pace,
and trained him, with the result that be shaped at a recent
country meeting (Boorhaman races) and easily beat a lot
of fancied ones, though left at the post at the start.
* » * *
“ Bax ” : I don’t agree with assertion (B. 9/3/’O5)
re Graeco-Roman and catoh-as-cateh-can wrestling, that
“played by a pair of strong men, the game must be
either bogus or brutal.” Miller won his world’s wrestling
championship purely by his combination of strength and
skill; and those qualities were exercised b.v Dinnie
throughout his career. Wrestling in those days was
entirely free from the dog-and-baboon-fight characteristics
which it has since gradually acquired in U.S. A. In Aus-
tralia, an outsider introduced the first degradation of the
sport with his “ hammerlock ’’—without which he had no
chance with Miller. I saw his match with Miller, he
finally getting the “ hammerlock ” hold, and twisting the
other man’s arm till the torture forced Miller to “ call ” a
fall—although he couldn’t have got his shoulders on the
carpet if he had wanted to. Another visitor brought the
“ strangle-hold.” Saw him choke an.opponent into insen-
sibility. The strangling occupied at least two minutes,
and the agonised gurgling from the man’s crushed wind-
pipe haunted me for long. There's no reason why ground
wrestling shouldn’t be purged of brutality. A proper
code of rules and a capable referee are all that is required.
If brutal methods are allowed to develop further, this
fine sport must eventually reach a stage in which the
“ wrestlers ” will get to work with axes.
* * * *
Young Clarence Weber, who is giving physical
culture demonstrations around the Melbourne suburbs in
connection with Iris “ Health and Strength College,” has
just published an illustrated booklet from which the Vic.
Education Department might very well take a hint or
two. “ State-school pupils are given a course of physi-
ology,” says Weber; “hut this course treats mainly
of the organs and the bony framework of the
human system, almost entirely neglecting the details
of the working of the 400 different muscles. In
the. series of manual exercises that are given, the
actions are purely mechanical, the aim being rather to
keep perfect time to music, or to obtain the effect of
a class moving in unison, than to benefit the muscles, the
most important item (breathing) being wholly neglected.
Physical culture under modern conditions is essentially
based on the employment of mental concentration on the
muscles exercised, and it is high time that the system
obtaining in our public schools was brought up to a
modern standard.” Anyone who watches a line of State-
school youngsters going through their monotonous course
of physical drill, as though their bodies were repeating a
church catechism, must admit that the exercise entails
little or no community of interest between mind and
muscle.
» * * *
Said that after all, in spite of the determined
manner in which the public stayed away from the Duffey-
Shrubb carnival in Melbourne, the Vic. A.A.A. will get
through without incurring an actual loss. But the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground people did not insist on the usual
charge for the ground. Seems a pity that so useful a
branch of athletics as footracing should have gone out of
public favor. All men should learn to run, if only for the
sake of keeping- the peace.
* * * *
New Plymouth (M.L.) amateur ped., L. B.
Webster, has one of the best records in Australasia. He
has started 63 times ; recorded 29 firsts, 13 seconds, and
9 thirds. Webster came to Sydney last week in order to
get fit to lower American amateur Duffey’s colors at the
big Sydney amateur gathering next month.
The new ambition of Sydney yachters to study
navigation and take out masters’ certificates adds the
useful to the pleasant.
* * * *
Sydney Flying Squadron’s general handicap on
Saturday afternoon provided some mild excitement.
There was a gentle breeze from the N.-E., and twelve
boats came to the line. Keriki was scratch, Donnelly
simin, Arawa (SJmin., Australian 7£mio. The limit boat
was Enid, with llfmin., and she led all the way to Taylor
Bay, where the Australian, whose skipper had been
making desperate endeavors to reach first place, succeeded
in overtaking the Enid. From thence it was evident that
the first and second places were as- good as filled, and the
interest shifted to the struggle for third place. Arawa,
Aspirant and Enid nearly came to grief with their spin-
nakers, the two latter going- within an ace of right over.
At Clark Island Arawa’s spinnaker went overboard. In
the final run, Australian, with spinnaker and ringtail all
on, led home by 2min. llsec. from Enid, with Vision
2min. 3sec. away, third
* ’ * * *
Sydney Alfred Yacht Cluh, having officially
closed its season the previous week, laid itself out to have
a “ motor afternoon ” last Saturday. Quite a crowd of
motor launches assembled in Farm Cove and proceeded to
Rose Bay, where the fun was to begin. Then it was dis-
covered that only two launches were going to compete,
and the excitement fizzled out with great suddenness.'
Fortunately a band and refreshments were on hand, and
time was killed pleasantly enough. Refreshments pro-
vide a splendid stop-gap in such unfortunate cases.
* * * *
_ Report says Ned Hanlan has thoughts of re-
visiting Sydney and settling down as sculling coach. He
has been lately rowing instructor at Columbia College.
New York.
* * * *
Hock Keys’ taps, in his latest fight with Monty
Andrews, fell as sweetly and gently as the evening.dew,
and Andrews lifted up an iron-fronted mug against which
they usually made as much impression as thistledown. It
was a fast and fine spectacular fight. While his strength
lasted the pallid Keys hit Mr. Andrews just when, where
and how he liked ; but after the 12th round his strength
ebbed out, and, although he fought by far the more ele-
gant scrap, he was so exhausted at the finish that the
referee could not but give Andrews the decision.
* * ■* *
The Jones-Toohey interview at Sydney Gaiety
Chib on Saturday night was spiced with streaks of cheer-
ful ferocity in the first few rounds. Jones became aggres-
sive, and Toohey showed a partiality for the floor that
was painful, lie fell five times in rapid sequence, but
always managed to get up in time, to be promptly floored
again, like the turtle, which always arrived in time for
the soup. A spell in the corner revived him somewhat,
but he came up very groggy indeed, and received close
attention till he plugged Jones stiffly in the mouth. That
eased off the fury of> Jones’s attack considerably, and then
it occurred to Toohey to clinch, lie clinched, and be-
tween clinching and landing occasional ones, managed to
keep the right end of himself up till the full course was
run and the fight awarded to Jones on points.
* * * *
‘‘Cocker” Tweedie, the clever Pyrmontfeather-
weight, like Griffo, late of the Rocks, was once a newsboy,
and a very smart one. Fifteen years ago “ Cocker” used
to make 355. a week, or thereabouts, by selling Bulletins
alone. Griffo, some 17 years ago, was turned out of Tim
Bulletin’s old office in J’itt-street by an irate accountant
because of the noise he was making. A day or so after
Griffo beat Billy Murphy for the world’s championship, he
drove down to The Bulletin in a hansom to ask the
accountant if he would oblige him by again throwing him
(Griffo) outside. The offer was politely, but firmly,
declined.
* • * •
The fate of John Roberts’ latest record break
shows how necessary it is for a man who has anything of
the champion about him to always have one eye on the
main chance. The Old Man of Billiards recently broke all
records, including his own, with a run of 921 in a spot-
and-push-barred game, but although it is 33 points ahead
of the next best, the next best remains the official best
because the table on which the old man did the trick was
not officially inspected beforehand.
The feature of the recent motor-reliability
contest was the marvellous invulnerability of the Dunlop
tyres. Great heavy cars, weighing over 12001b5., crashed
into wash-outs, thundered over broken metal, and ripped
along at high speed over roads where the metal was work-
ing through and sharp as razors ; and after 572 miles of
the worst roads in the world Dunlop tyres came through.*
Dear Bulletin.—A paragraph appeared
in The Bulletin lately stating that a man who
drinks doesn’t bother much about the ladies. It’s
not true. I was a teetotaller from infancy. I
was very fond of the girls, but so shy that I had
no success, and was quite miserable. At last I
read your wretched paragraph and saw in it a
method of attaining comparative happiness. I
took to drink. It didn’t work. My shyness dis-
appeared, but my liking for the girls was inten-
sified. I’m married now—worse luck. Dash The
Bulletin and the paragraph both.— O. (under en-
tirely new management). [Truly a speedy young
man : the par. is only a fortnight old.]
“ Itan ” : A Church of England clergyman
from Kobe, Japan, interviewed in Queensland,
spoke guardedly. He could give a lot of good
copy, he said, but might go back again and was
afraid. Cost of living had been trebled since the
war. Should the Monkey eventually win, his
perkiness would be intolerable. The Japs
undoubtedly had designs on the Northern
Territory. They looked at the case this way :
Australians do not appear inclined to rush the
place, so it woidd be no very great wrong for
Japan to get permission to empty a few millions
there. Were all the reports of the war from the
Monkey sources true ? No; they required as much
salt as those from St. Petersburg. The censorship
was very rigid. Newspapers had already been
pulled up and the editors fined for telling too
much of the truth.
Died on Monday, after a long and
most painful illness courageously endured,
Mr. S. Crombie Brown, journalist. He was
of Scottish parentage, but was born at
St. Petersburg, Russia. He began a long and
useful press career on the Edinburgh Daily
Review, and represented that paper as war
correspondent during the American civil war.
In 1800 he was war correspondent with
the forces resisting the Fenian invasion of
Canada. His first Australasian presswork was as
correspondent for the Lyttelton Tunis (M.L.) dur-
ing the Maori wars. Mr. Brown, at various times,
also contributed to the Otago Daily Times, the
Melbourne Age, Sydney Sunday Times, Sydney
Evening News, Southland Times (M.L.), anil
The Bulletin. He had among his friends such
distinguished men as Horace Greeley, George
Grey, Edmund Barton, John Ballance, Seddon
and Vogel. Unfortunately, the terrible illness
which brought Mr. Brown to his grave exhausted
his means, and he leaves his widow penniless.
The public is appealed to on her behalf, and dona-
tions may be sent to the editor Bulletin.


1
or*
V:-v,v.
&
MOTOR
IMG
50
Brown.
Hide •
17
Sencty&r
Ca/a/ogsie
gsdfg
W. W. GREENER'S
World-Renowned GUNS
se
Awarded Grand Prize,
St. Louis Exposition, 1904.
GREENER’S
CLUB RIFLES 310 & 297/230
Best in the market for Kangaroo
and Ladies’ Rifle Clubs.
All Riflemen should read “ For Sport and
War,” by W. W. GREENER. 180 Pages,
100 Illustrations, Posted 1/2.
GREENER’S GUNS and RIFLES—a Large
Stock on hand.
Catalogues and Price Lists on application
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne
(Greener’s Representative)
C. Stratmann’s *
FINE....
Made on the
Premises
CHOCOLATES and
SWEETHEATS
124
PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
UJJ
m
! W
rn
TTIOR the person who is not a millio'naire, there is ONLY
1 ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Paiace,” “S(!
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS,
rg
Thisis thestrongest recom-
mendation ever given to
any Shaving’ Soap, and was
obtained solely on merit.
EVERY BARBER ON THE WORLD’S FAIR CROUNDS AT ST. LOUIS USES
Williams’ Shaving Soap
EXCLUSIVELY.
Send a Penny Stamp for WILLIAMS’ TRIPLET KEY RlNG—Three Tools in one.
J. B. WILLIAHS CO.,
GLASTONBURY, CONN., U.S.A.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
!|| For 1/-
A Fortune for //- A Fortune for //-
£lOOO for Is. i FIRST GREAT (£lOOO for Is.
£lOOO for Is.J PRIZE (£lOOO for Is.
Or 12 Months’ Trip round the World, first-class, all expenses paid,
and £6OO in Cash for one person, or Eight Months for two.
And 139 other Important Prizes, ranging in value from £1 to £l5O.
Eight Hours 49th Annual Great Art Onion
49th THE OLDEST AND MOST POPULAR 49th.
Proceeds in aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners Free of all Charges. A list of winning numbers will be posted
to any person sending an addressed envelope to the representative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before 22nd April, or send stamps (with exchange added), Postal
Note, or P. 0.0., direct to the representative, Theo. W. Heide, Flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-
street, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and secure a chance in this Great Art Union.
Tickets Is. each, or 11 for 10s.
Applications for tickets direct to the representative must reach Melbourne before Date of Drawing.
Ist May, 1905.
BE SURE TO TRY YOUR LUCK !
GUNS.
HARRINGTON and
RICHARDSON’S
,r T -’
SPECIAL OFFER.
No. I—Steel1 —Steel Barrel, 30 inch, Pistol Hand, Case-hardened Frame, Top Snap Action and
Automatic Ejector, 12 gauge, Complete in Canvas Case £1 12s Gd
No. 2 —Similar to No. 1, but without Automatic Ejector £1 10s Od
POSTAGE FREE to anv address in Australia.
Me LEAR BROS. & RIGG, 147 &!*«**** st > Melbourne .
ask nirmiiMi
FRANZ JOSEF LASER
PURE, WHOLESOME and INVIGORATING. There is Nothing Better.
ser
New Season's Suitings.
WE don’t know who your tailor was in the
past, but we want to tell you right now
that if you start with us you will be amongst
the best-dressed men in Queensland, and at a
saving in price. We’ve just opened our first
shipment of New, Smart Autumn Suitings,
and want you to write us for patterns and
self-measurement blanks. We knoiv we can
please you with fit and style, or your money
refunded willingly.
“ Economic ” Suits to
Measure
Hand-finished in Best
Possible Style
35s to 60s
60s to 85s
The best possible value in either case.
CHARLES GILBERT. Queen st.
SPECIALIST IN TAILORING,
BRISBANE
3DS&~If this paper is mentioned a special discount will he given.
DUNLOPS
TRIUMPHANT
7/
Reliability motor Contest
From Sydney to Melbourne
And Melbourne to Ballarat and Back
(712 Miles)
Resulted in a Veritable Triumph
for the Reliability of
DUNLOP MOTOR TYRES
FINAL RESULT
H Tarrant ) On
J. H Craven On
S. H. Day Or
W & Roes On
S Stott On
CAR CONTEST t
Dunlop Motor Tyree
Dunlop Motor Tyree
Dunlop Motor Tyres
Dunlop Motor Tyres
Dunlop Motor Tyres
MOTOR CYCLE CONTEST:
1 B James On Dunlop Motor Tyros
2 V Gard On Ounlop Motor Tyres
Every Contestant that::
finished In the Final used
DUNLOPS
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre
Co. of Aus., Ltd.,
’ . .. .
150 Clarence St. Sydney.
And all States.
N.S.-W. public service regulations which,
as originally framed, provided for annual incre-
ments to all classes of the service, have been so
cut down that only the lowest grades participate
in the increases, and some of them, even, are
excepted.
Enel of George Fisher, one time a political
force in Maoriland, was sudden. A Maoriland
correspondent, writing last week, commented—
“ Next session will probably he his last. Still the
one time people’s favorite looks as healthy as ever
he did, but he only betrays exceptional interest in
talking over the days of his early manhood, when
he could out-run, out-talk, or out-fight 95 out of
every hundred men he met.”
At the rate the Tariff Commission is now
getting through the 300 complaints so far listed,
it should conclude its labors sometime in ’O9, if it
hurries. A cap manufacturer who lately told
“Customs” M‘Lean that he was being ruined by
i •
the tariff, and would gladly take for his business
a-fourth of what he was offered four years ago,
was told he ought to take liis complaints to the
Commission. “Yes,” he replied, “perhaps I
ought. But it will be two years before they come
tome, and long before then I shall be bankrupt.”
’ & _ 1
Mr. J. T. WISECARVER, Fairfield, lowa,
Jan. 25, 1899, writes: I had HEMORRHAGE OF THE
LUNGS—went to California for my health. It did me no
good. T afterwards tried Jayne’s Expectorant, and IT
CURED ME.”*
From a North Queensland sugar man :-
When the sugar rebate is reviewed, the Commonwealth
should regulate the wages to be paid to white laborers in
sugar mills. Last season laborers worked from 10 to 11
hours per day for from 15s. to 255. per week and keep,
The accommodation was wretched. At one Central mill,
where the laborer.receives the highest wage his class arc
paid in the State, his surroundings are horrible. He
sleeps in stuffy, evil-smelling boxes, eight of him in a
space 20 x 8 x 18. But lie is so tame that last season he
didn’t tr.y to kick, even after he was aware that Japs
refused to occupy the quarters, compelling the co. to
build new ones.
Nominally speaking, the Czar is absolute
master of the destiny of the Russian Grand Dukes
and Duchesses—certainly they may not marry nor
leave the country without his consent; but in
reality they are made independent of him through
the immense estate of 21,000,000 acres, named the
Imperial Appanages, and set apart for their sup-
port by the Emperor Paul I. This estate divides
annually an income of £2,000,000 sterling among
those Romanoffs who are not brothers and sisters,
or children and grandchildren of the Czar. Of the
Grand Dukes (now two in number) Vladimir is
the most important; Alexis, who ruined the navy,
is the most inefficient; and the late Sergius was
always accounted the most sincere, though cruel
and narrow-minded.
Elmore, between Bendigo and Echuca, is
one of the first of Victoria’s inland townlets to
adopt a system of sewerage—the septic-tank sys-
tem. Mostly up-country Vic. doesn’t bother
J i >, r a ,7 s drainage goes into tie
Murray, and Swan Hill pumps its drinking water
from the same sourC e, after seven towns and
numo rous townships have made a sewer of the
stream.
“ Mnnrilanrler” writer •
' f ‘ ‘ .
I ? ot . probable that the case of the two Maoris re-
fused admission to the Commonwealth will prod this
country into civil war. Democrats hereabouts sympathise
with the Australian desire to avoid a piebald complexion,
and Reid’s violation of the law, contained in his promise
to admit Maoris in the future, is viewed with some
astonishment. Maoriland’s aborigine is certainly a
superior sort of Ham, but he isn’t white and is certainly'
undesirable as a son-in-law and also from a labor-market
point of view. I can remember when in Hawkes Bay the
European was almost entirely rejected in favor of the
Maori and half-caste shearer, who pulled prices down to
15s _ alK j x7s. Od. a hundred, herded pig-fashion in a
common whare, and took any sort of food that cfEeied.
qq le shearers’ Accommodation Act and the Arbitration
Aot se ttled that, and now, if the haughty squatter wisties
t 0 emp i oy Hone and Taku, he lias to pay them the same
ra te of wages as is paid to Jones and Thompson,
_ .
Died last week, m Melbourne, the Widow
0 f ]( o | )er fc Russell, whose name is carried by one
0 f the city’s central thoroughfares. Robert Russell
came to Port Phillip in 183 G with instructions
from the Surveyor-General of N.S.W., and was
subsequently appointed the first Vic. Cleric of
Works. These early Australian officials were
unconsciously a quaint satire on human ambition,
Millions of men have pushed and slated and
labored with the idea of making an enduring
name for themselves a name that hardly outlived
the memory of its age. But the humble name
posted on the corner of a new street m a new city
is likely to keep its owner’s memory green for a
thousand years. For the convenience of future
historians, all street commemorative names
throughout Australia should be explained on a
brass tablet let into the wall of one of the central
corner houses.


HAVE Y
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison tl»**t defies al.
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; ttie disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I ( AN
CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WIDE. Because
others have failed is no reason for not flow being cured
Send atonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per b x. Prepared bv
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : /CLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for Reregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
gresn label on each box. (Regd. copyright
NATURE S PLEASANT LAXATIVE
A delightful liquid laxative and
the only true remedy for
habitual constipation and the
many ills dependent on a weak
or inactive condition of the Kid-
neys, Liver and Bowels. Plea-
sant to the taste, and prompt,
gentle and thorough in action.
gsdf
is now without doubt the most
widely appreciated household
medicine. Doctors everywhere
recommend California Syrup of
Figs because it strengthens the
organs, whilst at the same
time thoroughly but gently
cleansing the sluggish system.
AGREEABLE, MILD AND SURE
AN AID TO BEAUTY
s»
SR®
*
w
No woman who cares about her
appearance can afford to be indif-
ferent to ostrich plumes, an aid
which helps to her attainment of beauty.
MILLERS FEAT HE S-
THE BEST THAT MONEY CAN BUY
Direct From the Farm to You.
For the Autumn and Winter Season
Black Ostrich Feathers will be very
fashionable. Millinery Experts anti-
cipate a great demand for feathers.
Vide Fashion Journals.
HANDSOME OSTRICH PLUMES, |O/6 Post F,re9 ' 15 inche3 < as illustrated).
BRACK, WHITE, CREAM, NATURAL GREY, or BLACK Tipped with White.
OSIRICH TIPS 10 inches long, 3/-, all colors, STEEL ARROW ORNAMENTS, 1/-.
CHOICE BOAS. 21/-, 30/-, 42/-, 63/-, 84/-, WORTH TWICE THE MONEY.
NOTE THIS.—By purchasing from us you not only save all the Middle-
men’s profits, but you have the finest assortment of Ostrich Feathers in Aus-
tralia to choose from. Send Postal Notes. Illustrated Price List Post Free.
Feathers or Boas Cleaned and Curled. Superior Work at Moderate Prices.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Dept. P., Cor. Strand Arcade, PITT ST., SYDNEY
Also, at Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. Mention The Bulletin.
BIG GAME CARTRIDGES
ARE furnished in all calibres. In hunting
big game few shots comparatively are
to be had and each must count. It is
the hunter’s ideal to “drop the deer in its tracks.”
.38-40 W. C. F. and .44-40 W. C. F. are popular.
They are hard-hitting, your game does not run
miles to die a lingering death if your aim is
true. Demand U.M.C. of your dealer.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
LAXATINE
For all Liver, Kidney and
Hemorrhoid Troubles.
Xlie New
Ideal
Purgative
m
Recom-
mended
by the
World’s
Best
Physicians
All
Chemists
and
Store*
keepers.
MfINUFD. BY THE
LAXATINE G? LTD.
BiIDAPFST HUNGARY V [ln rutty a • tfTnM.
- Milm IPack -
a
gs
The Adapter. The Film Pack.
May be fitted by means of an Adapter
to any existing Camera at the cost of
a few shillings, and will enhance its
value at least SO per cent.
The simplest DAYLIGHT changing
device ever devised.
Send for Film Pack Booklet & mention this paper.
Kodak, Eitd.,
284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And of All Dealers.
A Handsome Present
erg
A £2 Watch for only 12s 6d.
Good, Cheap, and Reliable.
rpHIS Beautiful Solid SILVER
1 WATCH (Lady’s or Gent.’s),
with a guarantee for three years,
will be sent post free to any part
of the Colony on receipt of money
or postal note for 12s 6d. This
offer is made to advertise our firm.
BE IN TIME, AS WE EXPECT
TO SELL SAME VERY QUICK.
THE ENGLISH LEVER WATCH CO.,
BOX 360. G.P.0., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
BOX 406, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
FITS
ARE CURABLE BY
TRENCH’S REMEDY
Head Office : Dublin.
A few Typical Cases out of Many Cures.
48 HOURS
TO LIVE.
A girl had fits in such rapid succession that she
was linahle to take food or drink, and the
doctor who was attending her sa d she could
not live more than hours. Trench's lleiuedy
at oiu-e slop] ed the fits, and there lias not been
ft further attack since—ov. r two-and-a-lialf years—aud none
of the Untied/ has been taken for over a year.
DECLARED TO
EE INCURABLE
A girl who had been at various times
under treatment hy several of the leading
doctors of Melbourne was declared to bo
incurable by them all, and the parents
were advised to place her in an asylum.
She took from ten to twenty fits a day, yet ut on using
Trench s Remedy the attacks ceased at once, and she has nut
had a fit s : nee—nearly three years. She ceased taking tho
Remedy nearly two yea is ago.
£lOOO SPENT
WITHOUT RESULT.
The son of a leading merchant of
Melbourne broke down just • s he was
commencing bis Umversiiy course.
All the best physicians of Melbourne
were consulted, but none of them
could stop the fits. Tin; father then took the younir nwn to
England and el-owhere to obtain the > est advice in the world,
but. afte- siw-nding over £llOO, he brought him back with the
fits o ourr.ng more frequently than ever. Trench’s Remedy
at once slopped' the attacks, and the young man is now per-
fectly cured.
The above statements can be verified by personal reference
to the pan nrs of the patients, who, from gratitude, have
offered to reply to any enquirers we refer to them.
VALUABLE BOOKLET POST FREE FROM
The Union Rlfg. Sc Agency Co. 9
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
2?
OUR Electric Appliance
pours glowing, exhilar-
ating Vitality into you
while you sleep. It Animates
the sluggish circulation,
Stimulates the Brain to
Activity, and fills the body
with Life, Ambition, and
Endurance. It furnishes
the Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
eveiy morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energy and Vigor. Catalogue and Price List
Post Free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
u
ACETYLENE GAS
Button-hole & Pocket Lamps
Nickel plated, posted free,
To Burn 1 hour, 1/9 ; To Burn 2 hours,
2 6 ; To Burn 3 hours, 3/6.
Send for Catalogues on House Instal-
lations.
BRANDT BROS., Acetylene Gas Engi-
neers, 236 Pitt St., SYONEY; also
197 & 422 Elizabeth Sr., MELBOURNE.
mm
Rothwdf s
On’i.y Address,
Edward Street,
Brisbane.
The Best Value 21/- PANAMA in the Commonwealth.
Send for one. Cash refunded if not pleased. [4
Love in a Mist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was band night on the beach. At least, it
had been, but the band-stand was silent and
dark, and the restless, air-seeking crowd had
long since drifted away. Even the tram bells had
ceased their clamor, and the sea, as it splashed
mournfully against the little landing-stage, sent a
shower of spray into my face.
As I turned to climb the steps of my retreat, a
woman’s voice attracted my attention. Glancing
up, I saw her—a fair-haired girl, whose face,
turned to the man at her side, glimmered white in
tho moonlight, as together they leant over the
rail.
“ Will you not listen to me!” she was saying,
passionately. “Surely it is not much to ask!”
There was a moment’s silence, which the lap-lap
of the rising tide and a distant clock striking 12
intensified.
“I’m so tired,” went on the plaintive voice, “so
tired of it all ! Don't you remember, Terry, the
very first time I saw you ? A night just like this
it was. It’s so long ago, dear, and yet I seem to
feel that I must speak of it. Ah ! ” throwing
out a nervous hand, “ Terry, you don’t: mean it—
we cannot say good-bye. You say you will not
drag mo into poverty. I am not afraid of that.
What does it matter ? What does anything matter
so long as you love me ? Is the past to count for
nothing? All the years that were a dreary waste,
because I did not know whether you were alive or
dead ! In the bitterest hours of my life the memory
of that far-away summer was the one oasis in my
desert of tragedy. For once let us speak as we
would speak if we knew that death was near. Do
you think that you will forget so easily ? If you
go, Terry, I will also go in spirit. At sea, when
you cannot sleep, the throb of the engines will
seem to say, ‘ Come bade ! Come back ! ’ and when
you get to the other end of the world,
where you are going to forget me, time
after time you will think you see me.
A woman passing in the crowd, perhaps,
with the scent you know, will set you longing
madly. In those moments will lie my revenge.
But Ido not want revenge—l want my love, my
life ! lam always seeing pictures—things that
have passed for ever—and dreaming of a future
that can never be. And there is one picture that
haunts me night and day.”
Her voice fell to a passionate whisper.
“Your child! You see that,” throwing out
desperate arms, “would be my death-warrant!
And the other pictures. I see a rose-garden in
the dusk of a summer night. I can almost feel
that you are with me there in the scented dark-
ness. The dear old garden, with its great bushes
of scented verbena, whose grey-green blossoms
hang over the gate, and the clusters of Love-in-a-
Mist that you used to call ‘ your flower,’ because I
once gave you one. Heaven help me to forget it !
Why is the world so cruel ? You went from me a
passionate blue-eyed lover. You have come back
a calm-eyed, cynical man of the world—come back
to say ‘ Good-bye ! ’
“ Well, I shall say it. We have said ‘ good-bye *
so often, you and I, dear. You with your horse’s
bridle over your arm, and I with my arms round
your neck, and the hush of the bush all around us.
And Leslie—poor Leslie ! —waiting so patiently
down the road for you. He often got tired of
waiting, didn’t he? We thought it so hard to
part for a day or two,” with a piteous little laugh.
“And to-night we are parting for ever. This is
the end. You used to say I was brave. I will
try to be—and lam not crying. Why should I ?
There is all my life left to cry. What do people
say when they are losing everything? Nothing
bnt good-bye—good-bye—good-bye.”
The girl’s voice quivered and broke. Bowing
her head on her arms, she sobbed breathlessly,
while the man, quietly smoking, stared moodily
out to sea. At last he bent down, and putting
his arm round the girl’s shoulders, shook her
gently.
“Here, you mustn’t cry like that. Anyone
would think it all real. Wait a moment.”
The butt of a cigar hissed as it struck the
water. . . .
“There, feel better now?” He bent back tho
girl’s head and kissed her. “ I suppose that sort
of thing pleases you, but it gives me the blues.”
“Then I guess it’s a success,” said the girl.
“ That’s tho last scene in the second act, and I
wanted you to hear it. It works me up and I
forget everything but the story. How late it
seems,” with a little shiver. “lam so cold. Take
me home, dear.”
As their footsteps grew fainter on the deserted
pier, a benumbed eavesdropper arose and dis-
appeared into what was left of the night.
BOH.
Some S. Australian townships are develop-
ing a silly craze to have themselves officially
called “cities.” Mostly the people don't care
tuppence what the Govt. Gazette styles their
collection of humpies ; it’s chiefly a movement of
little mayors, who want to put an extra frill on
their millinery. Thus Unley, where ex-Premier
Jenkins had his house and his rose-garden, is get-
ting a bill ready for Parliament, authorising the
taking of the necessary census. A great work to
set an expensive Parliament upon—an Act to
authorise a Mayor to add a little magnificence to
his official chiffon.
“E.F.”: Was watching some sleeper-
cutters at work, when one young giant’s axe
glanced off the side of the tree and gashed his foot
horribly. He sat on a log and stared blankly at
the flowing blood. I ran up, and went to cut the
boot-laces. “Don’t cut ’em,” he said ; “ undo
’em.” I hurriedly expostulated, thinking he
would bleed dry. “It’s orlright,” he said ; “it
don’t matter a blank about the foot; but look at
the gash in me new blucher ! ”
Arthur W. Samuels, in tho National
Review, concerning the effects of Freetrade on
Ireland :
Ireland was a mere pawn in the great party game of the
late ’4o’s and in 1853, when was initiated the existing
fiscal system—a system which was established in the then
apparent interests of the English manufacturers, but
which has depleted Ireland of her capital. Ireland has
fulfilled her destiny under the 'Freetrade rigime. There
were no mistakes in the minds of Peel and his confederates
when they introduced the legislation of 1846. He antici-
pated the loss to Ireland, and, as a compensation, he
turned the constabulary into an Imperial force, and paid
it out of the Imperial Exchequer ; and then, and thus,
Ireland got her police and lost her trade. Weigh out
your Irishmen —Free Fooders —and tell how many shillings
in the quarter of foreign grain, how many pence in the
hundredweight of your imported beef, was the worth of
the men of Dublin, Connaught and Enniskillen who
stormed the heights beyond the Tugela and held the
fortunes of the Empire safe, not only then, but countless
times “ in .your brief island story ” ?
“ F.E.P.W.” : The Australian small boy’s
ingenuity in cruelty is surely one of our great
natural resources. At the seaside I saw one catch
a fish with a spike on its back. On the spike he
securely fixed a cork ! Then he replaced the fish,
and watched it swimming round, half in, half out
of water, not strong enough to submerge the
cork nor to free itself, but struggling unavail-
ingly, like an Australian politician trying to get
away from the great loan habit.
There are no points in being a rebellious
convict in the U.S.A. At Folsom prison (scene
of the big outbreak in 1903), a few men tried to
get away from the quarry on December 28th 1904,
and were shot down at once by every guard in
sight. Suggestive points from the official lips :
“There was nothing to it,” said Warden Yell. “My
men simply followed my orders to shoot regardless of
whom the convicts endeavored to take with them, and
they shoot to kill. The execution was something terrible,
every prisoner in the bunch having four or five holes in
(him, and some of them more. I don’t think there will be
any more attempts to break out for a while. This is a
mighty good lesson to the convicts. Quinlan was almost
cut in two by the in; iber of bullets that penetrated his
abdomen ; the surgeons could not count them.”
Guard Harris, who “did effective shooting,” said
modestly “ I merely did my duty in shooting them down ;
any of the other guards would have done the same thing.”
He is the hero of the prison, and receives congratulations
from all sides.


Surgery,
Mr. 8. CLIBURN,
THE LONDON
BOft! E-SETTER,
And EXPONENT OF BLOODLESS SURGERY,
may be consulted for a few more days at
7 BLIOH ST., SYDNEY
(Opposite the Union Club).
Hours—9 to 1, and 2to 7.
MR. CLIBURN makes a speciality of Flat-
- foot; when the foot has no spring, the
ankle becomes.rigid and painful. Injured knees,
when great pain is felt on the inner side, and no
weight can be borne on the limb, which is often
stiff and much swollen; injured shoulders, when
the arm cannot be raised or put behind the back ;
enlarged and rigid toe joints ; sprained ankles and
wrists of long standing ; hip injuries, dislocations,
spinal curvature, and all forms of lameness.
WONDERFUL CURES.
TELLING TESTIMONY
PROM SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT LETTER PROM ROBERT HOLLIS
Esq., M.P.
I have known Mr. Charles Morley, of 33 Newman-
Street, Newtovyn, for many years. For the last eight
years he has lived nearly opposite my residence. I have
a strong-recollection of the unfortunate accident he met
ivith about two years ago, and the terrible cripple the
accident left him. I have many times conversed with
him, and deplored to him auyl others his condition from
that of. the smart man he was prior to his accident. This
morning, to my great surprise, he walked across from his
house to me without his stick, which hitherto it has been
impossible for him to do. He informed me the great
improvement in his .condition was due to a visit to Mr. S.
Cliburn, the day before, at the Australia Hotel, who had
simply pulled his dislocated hip and knee-joints straight.
I consider the result marvellous, and if the joints remain
as they now are, that the skill of this gentleman cannot
be too widely known.
(Signed) Robert Hollis, Newman-st., Newtown, Sydney.
23rd February, 1905.
Extract from the Sydney Evening News, April 10th
1903 regarding Mr. Morley’s accident“ Ticket Examiner
Charles Morley did a plucky thing last night, which,
unfortunately, was the cau-ie of his being taken to Sydney
Hospital. In the course of his duty he was on a foot-
board of a tram at the Liverpool and Elizabeth streets
corner, when a passenger, in alighting, fell dangerously
close to the horses in a passing ’bus. Morley jumped off
and was dragging him out of danger, when the ’bus
struck him to the ground very heavily. He saved the
passenger, but was badly hurt himself, and had to be
taken to Sydney Hospital by the Civil Ambulance
Brigade.”
FELL 30 FEET AND DISLOCATED
HIS HIP.
80 Elliott-street, Balmain, Sydney,
_ _ 4th March, 1905.
Bear Sir, —I am a builder and contractor, and nearly
seven years ago I had the misfortune to fall from a bridge
30 feet high on to solid rock, and dislocate,my hip joint.
I was in hospital for three months, and afterwards had to
rest at hom \ another three months,' with no real benefit.
Subsequently my hip was put under the “X Ra.vs” at
another hospital, and, at last, I was told that nothing
could he done without a surgical operation. Two or three
doctors further examined me, but they said they could do
no good ; thus, for the last few years, I have simply hobbled
along as well as I could with my poor crippled leg. For-
tunately, I heard that you were on a visit to Sydney, and
so I consulted .you on Monday last, and you there and
then put the bone in. I walk so much better now that
my relatives and friends can scarcely believe that I am
the same man. In the public interest I write this plain
statement of my case. Long may you be spared to carry
on your great and good work.—Yours gratefully,
(Signed) HENRY BUSH.
THE FIRST PATIENT
to consult Mr. Cliburn in Australia was
NURSE YOUNGER,
5 Wellesley-street, Summer Hill, Sydney,
9th March, 190".
Dear Mr. Cliburn.—Pray accept my thanks for curing
my foot, which had tormented me for over four years. I
had tried liniment, foot-supports, massage, electric and
hot-air baths, etc., Without avail, previous to consulting
you, and I feel that I cannot do less than thank you for
the great service you have rendered me.—Yours sincerely,
(Signed) Nurse K. YOUNGER.
LETTERS FROM GRATEFUL PATIENTS AT HOME.
FROM A WELL-KNOWN CLERGYMAN.
The Rev. John Turner, for many years the highly-
esteemed vicar of Mickley, near Stoeksfield-on-Tyne,
writing under date, 27th January, 1902, says:—“Mr.
Cliburn. Dear Sir, —I feel it to be my duty to write and
tell you of the great benefit that I have derived from your
treatment to my right knee. I injured it twelve years
ago by a fall while bicycling. I have suffered more or
less ever since, sometimes being quite lame. I have con-
sulted three different doctors, and spent £3O, but found
little or no benefit. Your treatment, however, has quite
restored my knee, and it is practically as good as the
other. It is six months since my last’visit to you, and
as I can now walk for miles with comparative ease in this
hilly country, I may venture to think myself cured.
Thanking you very much for what you have done for me.”
SUFFERED OYER 30 YEARS.
A BAD FOOT GA3E.
Pitcairngreen, Almondbank, Perth, N. 8.,
2nd September, 1902.
Mr. Cliburn. Sir, —I had suffered a great deal of pain
with my right foot that 1 got injured in the year IS7I.
1 tried three bone doctors and one medical practitioner,
aid got no relief. I consulted you in February last, and
after three visits I was completely cured. 1 can now
walk with an elastic step that even my wife does not
: -cognise.—Yours truly, WILLIAM DUNCAN.
The above letters have been selected at random from
upwards of 3000 in Mr. Cliburn’s possession. The
O.IIGINALS may be inspected by anyone interested.
4
&
IF YOU SUFFER
from
HEADACHES, FLATULENCY,
PALPITATION, INSOMNIA,
INDIGESTION, LANGUOR,
BILIOUSNESS, ACIDITY,
LOSS OF APPETITE,
OR CONSTIPATION,
= TAKE =
Mother Seigel's
Syrup.
Purveyors
by Royal Warrant
serg
To His Majesty
The Ring.
“ LENTEN SEASON .
JUST LANDED “SPECIAL”
SHIPMENTS OF . . .
MOiR’S
(John Mots. & Son, Ltd.)
HERRINGS.
“ NEW SEASON’S ” “ SPECIALLY SELECTED.”
Insist on having 1 “MOIR’S” BRAND.
EACH TIN GUARANTEED.
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Preserved Bloaters
Herrings in Anchovy Sauce
Herrings in Shrimp Sauce
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
Herrings a la Sardines
Digby Chicks
Dried Sprats
Findon Haddocks
Anchovy Paste, 3oz.
Bloater Paste, 4oz.
tr
■jfc !
YeryOldYatted
Distilled &Bo tiled by
Kilmarnock, Scotland.
[MARTIN’S
j PILLS
A Safe Medic ; ne for Ladies.
f The reason is t ey are purely a vegetable
c mposition, and expressly suited to the con- I
I stitutioil and requiremen s of women. This
i explains the great success and golden opinions '
which follow the ; r use. Thousands say they !
1 save all trouble, effectually remove all impuri- ’
ties of the blood, beautify t e comp’exion, no |
headache, no pain, m flushing, no giddiness, 4
no anxiety. Tuey make work a p ensure, and ,
existence a joy. Superior to any oth r known 4
remedy, Price 5- . So'd everywhere. Sole ]
proprietor, MA R TIIV , Pharmaceutic J j
Chemist, Sou Hampton, England . j
w ~- - J
“ GRAND PRIX ” PARIS 1900.
The Highest Possible Award.
JOSEPH GILLGTT’S
PENS.
Highest Quality, and Having Greatest
Durability, are therefore
CHEAPEST.
PLEASURE * PROFIT.
Cyphers Incubators.
'T'HESE world-renowned INCUBATORS are worked on
1 a new principle. The Regulator is simply perfect,
and cannot get out of order. Being worked on the Hot
Air principle, they have no tanks to leak. They are self-
ventilated, and are fully guaranteed to bring out lively
and healthy chicks and ducklings. Send for circular.
J. & A. BOYES, A °l" T8 -’
241=243 Elizabeth-street, flelbourne.
THE GUINEA KING^
Cl
Hand
Camera
To carry 12
J-Plates
with Rapid
Rectilinear
Lens.
Finest In-
stantaneous
Shutter
focussing up
to 4ft. I’ost
free to any
part of Aus-
tralia, 22/6,
J. H. SQUIRE & CO.,
Kodak Depot, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
. .-u:
Melbourne Branch—
W. WOOLLEY and SON,
Equitable Building.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and CO.,
Brisbane.
. Catalogues Free.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
f Of course you have System
in vour office. BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OYER !
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
MURRELLS & BECKER
are the largest makers of TRAVELLING
GOODS in the Commonwealth
360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
near Stock Exchange;
212 EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
Write for Catalogue B.
Price given to carry any article to your address.
NERVOUSNESS.
EiJSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS oi SEEP
CURE, will forward the same, free of !
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Pivcr’s
Le
Treflc
Incarnat
(crimson clover)
sole agents:
MIDDOWS BROTHERS,
SYDNEY.
AND AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE
PERTH, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ser
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
'W_ c. E LDT?,IDGE & GO.
DYHUS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary IJall).
Country Chders by poUfrom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
A Life of Freedom.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MANY people envied Rees. He was so
strenuous, insistent, and positive. But
his strong egotism jarred sometimes on
men ; and, as for women, those who did not adore
him said—viciously and with understanding— that
they would be “ sorry for his wife ” when he got
one. Rees was not married.
“ I abhor the idea of marriage,” he used to say.
‘‘lt ties the parties up by a legal bond that
takes the devil and at least two of his
brigade to undo; it robs them of their
freedom and pitches each among a new set of
rel iti ves. I never met a married man yet who wasn’t
ashamed of some of his wife’s connections. No,
sir ; give me a free and equal contract with some
young girl, who doesn’t insist on getting married.
There’ll be no bothering relationship created
between me and a set of amiable assn? (at the
best), and we can separate whenever we like.
Mind you, I’m not proposing to link myself with
a loose woman. I’m not'a boy. I intend to find
a girl, with decent notions of' honor, who will do
the square thing by me. She needn’t know my
people, and I needn’t know hers, and we’ll get
along famously. She’ll attract me and I’ll attract
her—but there’ll be no royal alliance of the
families.”
* <* • o
“Come and have a cup of tea,” he suddenly said
one day in the street. “I’m renting two rooms in
Collins-street. Got somebody in them, too.”
The somebody was the girl whom Rees had
found. She was small, dark, and silent, and her
eyes rested always on Rees. He introduced her
as Miss Hetty Bolton, and after three or four
words she hardly spoke again during the half-hour
that I stayed. Rees was voluble, and talked of
everything, while her eyes followed his every
gesture, with a dark, inscrutable interest continu-
ally in them. She seemed to be soaking-in im-
pressions of Rees, like a sponge.
Afterwards he told me she was in a tea-room,
earning ten shillings a week, and had, for a time,
been living with an aunt. Her mother and other
relatives were “somewhere up-country.” “I rent
the rooms,” said Rees, “and she lives there, while
I stay at an hotel. Whatever money is in my
pocket she shares, and she takes her meals at the
tea-room. We see one another just as often or as
seldom as we please. And she's playing the game
with absolute honesty.”
The last statement was true. Hetty lived
between the tea-room and her lodgings, and
troubled herself with no other men. With Rees,
however, she was occasionally seen at the theatres’,
and so on ; and everywhere she was the same-
silent, watchful, and inscrutable.
* * * »
I was away for three months. Returning, I
could not find where Rees was living, and wrote
to Hetty’s lodgings in Collins-street, asking for
his address. The answer came in a visit from
Rees himself. “Your note was sent on to
Hetty,” he explained. “She isn’t in Collins-
street now ; she’s in a little villa in South Yarra.”
“ Housekeeping now ? ” I asked.
“ N-no,” he said, “ her mother is with her.”
Rees him ?elf, I found, had left his hotel for a
bo irdinghouse—a drop in weekly expense from
355. to 255. a week. Yet I knew that his salary
had not been lowered.
“She was lonely,” he added, “and things went
wrong with whatever money her mother had.”
“So you visit the family now,” I said, and
grinned.
“ The old woman keeps out of the way,” said
Rees grimly, and strode off.
I did not see him in the city for weeks. Then
he e died on me again, anxious to secure a billet
for “a boy he knew.” I had a slight “ pull ”in a
city office, and found a half-clerkship, half-mes-
seugership at 15s. a week. But I gasped when I
found that the boy’s name was Bolton. That was
Hu tty’s name too. I gasped more when I walked
one evening pasta house in South Yarra—l). F.
brick villa, all modern improvements, 17s. 6d. per
week—and saw Rees on the verandah. He was
talking to a meagre old lady, while a sullen-faced
boy lounged over the gate with a cigarette. Rees
came to the gate and dragged me in.
Hetty greeted me with as few words as ever.
Rees talked, but not brightly, and she watched
him less. His eyes rather were kept on her, and
the dominance seemed to have passed from his
face into hers. When 1 left he walked along tho
street with me.
“ I’m boarding with them,” said Rees.
“ With Hetty, Hetty’s mother, and Hetty’s
little brother?” 1 said. “Why don’t you sling
“Can’t,” said he. “They’d be stranded.”
“No worse than they were before,” I said.
“ Have a row and smash up the happy home.”
“I haven’t got the face,” said Rees. “That
would be brutal. And Hetty hasn’t given me any
cause of resentment.”
“She has soaked you in, and taken ownership
of you,” I answered.
“Nonsense,” lie said, testily. “This is only a
temporary arrangement, anyhow. No thanks, I
won’t have a drink. She doesn't like it.”
As successive months passed I heard that
Hetty’s uncle had become c iretaker of the buildings
in which Rees’s offices were rented, and that Rees
had stood sponsor for her sister's introduction as
partner into a suburban millinery business. But
Rees himself kept out of my way, and his old
haunts knew him no longer. I saw him once,
however, on a bay steamer with Hetty—quiet]
cool, and imperturbable as ever—and the whole
of her household—mother, brother, sister and
uncle. He carried a Pig luncheon-basket.
* * * *
Chance took me away again for a few months.
I came back, and walked into a club. From the
billiard-room rang a voice—strident, self-confident,
and assertive—the voice of the dead and forgotten
Rees. Six feet of egotistic manhood swung into
the bar, and poured whisky down my throat and
its own.
“ I’ve married Hetty, old man,” Rees explained.
“ Not for morality’s sake, or for hers. But while
we stayed unmarried, I didn’t feel able to have a
row with the uncle and the old woman. But now,
thank God, I’m master in my o?vn house again!
Let’s make a night of it.”
We did.
P.
At the criminal sittings of the Supreme
Court at Townsville, the other day, an assistant
in the Ravensvvood post office was found guilty of
stealing £11155., and was sentenced to 12 months’
imprisonment. The sentence was suspended. One
fact elicited was that the prisoner received a
salary of £6O a year, while his board and lodging
cost £65. On the face of it, looks as though the
Commonwealth can still, in spite of the clauses
which the Labor party put in the Public Service
Act, sweat its servants ! •


Amusements.
SCOTTISH ENTERTAINER,
Miss Jean Howison, of Perth, Scotland,
Interpreter of
ROBERT BURNS and lAN MACLAREN.
Address : The Bulletin.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING. GREAT SUCCESS of
Mr. ANDERSON'S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO. in the
Powerfully Written Romantic Drama,
A. LIFE’S K.BVEKTGE,
For the First Time in Australia.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
JULIUS GRANT, Manager.
|_JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of Mr. KNIGHT and Miss JEFFRIES
in IF I WERE KING.
MARCH 25 .. MONSIEUR BEA’JCAIRE (3 Nights Only).
„ 29 .. THE ETERNAL CITY „ „
APRIL 1 .. THE SILVER KING „ „
„ 5 .. THESICN OF THE CROSS „
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES,
WEDNESDAYS.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS of
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S SPECIALLY - SELECTED
COMEDY CO.
in the Great Comedy Triumph,
The Duke of Killiecrankie.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan's.
“pRINCES’ COURT,” MELBOURNE.
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT of
MISS ANNETTE
KELLER MANN,
CHAMPION LADY SWIMMER, in EXTRAORDINARY
AQUATIC FEATS.
Princes’ Court, Melbourne.
THE PREMIER PLEASURE GROUND OF
AUSTRALASIA.
CANADIAN WATER-CHUTE,
CAMEL-BACK TOBOGGAN,
Cafe Chantant, 1 Mysterious MyoSa, Great Dragon
Tugaroo, Rifle Range, Japanese Tea House,
Military Band. Daily, 2.30 to 11 p.m.
A. L. BAIRD, Gen. Manager.
Amusements.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY,
G-JEZ_A_l<rjD
Commonwealth Show
19th to 27th APRIL, 1905.
PRIZE SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS
may be had on application.
CATTLE Entries close THURSDAY, MARCH 23.
FAT STOCK Entries close THURSDAY, MARCH 23.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Royal Chambers,
3 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
LAST NIGHTS of BLAND HOLT’S Exciting Melo-
dramatic Spectacle,
WOMAN AND WINE.
NEXT and FINAL PRODUCTION of the SEASON,
THE BETTING BOOK, or the GAMBLING EVIL.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in the Colossal
Attraction,
THE ORCHID .
For Brilliancy in Mounting, Hilarity and Tunefulness
has never been surpassed in Sydney.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu. llariiy Rickards.
I ITPTI C Til'll THE GREATEST COMEDIAN
Li i 8 LE I till, AND DANCER ON EARTH.
Re-appearance for a Few Nights, LES FRABETTIS.
Splendid Reception of MR. HARRY TAFT, America’s Great
Whistling Comedian. Also, LITTLE LIZZIE ANDERSON.
MR. FRED. V/. MILLIS. THE TOUR FIGAROS.
Continued Success of THIS RESEDA SEXTETTE, A
MONGOLIAN MELODY, THE MAHERS—ALICE AND
MIKE, HILDA LANE, MISS FANNY POWERS,
GOODFELLOW & GREG SON, MR. FRED. BLUETT.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor '& Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance of NAT TRAVERS, Coster Comedian.
„ „ WILLIAM F. HAWTREY A WINIFRED AUSTIN.
( ALICE FIERCE, American Impressionist.
Great I CLEOFATRA, Snake Enchantress.
Success of | BONITA, Champion Lady lhfie Shot.
I CARLOS, the Human Target.
FERNANDEZ MAY TRIO. MAX Ml LI AN, Expert Equilibrist
WAL ROBBINS, Original Black & White Comedian.
CARDEN WILSON, Successful Mimic.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —3s, 2s (id, 2s, Is.
Medical.
Deaf People
Hear Whispers.
WIRELESS TELEPHONES
INVENTED BY A KENTUCKIAN.
INVISIBLE WHEN WORN, BUT A T
LIKE EYE-CLASftES.
Another Marconi heard from. He makes the deaf hear.
He has invented little wireless telephones, so soft in the
ears one can’t tell they are wearing- them.
And no one else can tell either, because they are out oi
sight when worn. Wilson’s Ear Drums are to weals
hearing what spectacles are to weak sight.
Because they are sound magnifiers, just as glasses are
sight magnifiers.
They rest the Ear Nerves hy taking the strain off them
—the strain of trying to hear sounds. They can he put
into the ears, or' taken out, in a minute, just as com-
fortably as spectacles can be put on and off.
And they can be worn for weeks at a time, because they
are ventilated, and so soft in the ear holes, they are not
felt everi when the head rests on the pillow. They also
protect any raw inner parts of the ear from wind, or cold,
dust, or sudden and piercing sounds.
These little telephones make it as easy for a deaf
person to hear weak sounds as spectacles make it easy to
read fine print. And the longer one wears them the
better the hearing grows, because they rest up and
strengthen the ear nerves. To rest a weak ear from
straining is like resting a strained wrist from working.
Wilson’s Ear Drums rest the Ear Nerves by making the
sounds louder, so it is easy to understand without trying
and straining. They make deaf people cheerful and com-
fortable, because such people can talk with their friends
without the friends having to shout back at them. They
can hear without straining. It is the straining that puts
such a queer, anxious look on the face of a deaf person.
Wilson’s Ear Drums make all the sound strike hard on
the centre of the human ear drum, instead of spreading
it weakly all over the surface. It thus makes the centre
of the human err drum vibrate ten times as much as if
the same sound struck the whole drum-head. It is this
vibration of the ear drum that carries sound to the
hearing nerves. When we make the drum vibrate ten
times as much we make the sound ten times as loud and
ten times as easy to understand.
This is why people who had not in years heard a clock
strike can now hear that same clock tick anywhere in the
room while Wearing Wilson’s Ear Drums.
Deafness, earache, buzzing noises in the head, raw and
running ears, broken ear drums, and other ear troubles
are relieved and cured (even after Ear Doctors have given
up the cases) by the use of these comfortable little ear-
resters and sound magnifiers.
A sensible book about Deafness tells how they are made,
and has printed in it letters from people- who are using
them. About forty Ear Doctors are themselves wearing
Wilson’s Ear Drums, or have made their deaf relatives and
patients wear them to get well. Clergymen, Lawyers,
Physicians, Telegraph Operators, Trainmen, Workers in
Boiler Shops and Foundries—people of all ranks who were
Deaf, tell their experiences in this free book. They tell
how their heaving was brought hack to them, almost
inStantlv, by the proper use of Wilson’s Ear Drums.
Some of these very people may live near you, and be well
known to you. What they have to say is mighty strong
proof. This book has been the means of making 326,000
Deaf people hear again. It will be mailed free to you if
you merely write a post-card for it to-day. Don’t put off
getting back vour hearing. Write now, while you think
of it. Get the free book of proof. Write for it to-day
to STAR NOVELTY COMPANY, 112 Premier Buildings.,
229-231 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Karalee.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE watched the stars fade, one by one;
The pallid brides of night, who flee
At dawn’s resplendent pageantry—
The swift, sure onset of the sun.
And as his ruddy fingers drew
The veil of darkness from the blue,
I know one heart leapt up to see
In dim, but certain outline rise
(Long sought for by our eager eyes)
The peaks that girdle Karalee !
They stand like capes athwart the deep
Of desert whose encroachments run
Upon each fretted bastion ;
But where the tallest windy steep,
Slow-changing with the changeless years,
Against the dome of Heaven rears
Its proud and purple promont’ry,
Rock-born, rock-cradled, clear and cold,
The clefts and caves of mountain hold
The shining springs of Karalee.
We were as sailors, spent with swell
Of wild mid-ocean, worn and pale
With labor on the volleying sail,
Who view their island citadel,
When through some rift of tempest gleams
The white-walled harbor of their dreams,
And know their travail done, the sea]
And all its hungry fury past —
So we looked forth and knew at last
The haven-hills of Karalee.
Behind, the leagues of desert lie
Unnumbered as its sands, that lift
Their eddying spirals, drift on drift
Across the steely arch of sky,
And Desolation’s spirit broods
Above untrodden solitudes—
Ah ! little hope was ours that we
Should ever lift those hills again,
And mounting from the billowy plain
Ride down the range to Karalee.
For many days we rode as though
We were but shadows of a dream,
And all the burning earth did seem
In waves of heat, above, below,
Beneath the noontide’s flaming breath
To dance a frantic dance with Death—
Grim leader of our company ;
But now no longer side by side
With us his phantom horsemen ride,
To-night brings rest by Karalee.
Perhaps at daybreak we shall hear
The brumbies’ bells, and start from sleep,
Expectant of the sandy deep—
And see the ranges frowning near,
And watch the winds of morning cool,
Break on the well-remembered pool,
And ere we rest again shall see
How fetlock-deep the ponies run
In valleys hidden from the sun
The grass grows green by Karalee.
w.A.
THE PRODINGL.
A Question of Suicide.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ man in his right mind could sui-
j cide,” said Caller decidedly. George
lifted his head and sniffed.
“ Rot ! Damned infantile prattle! Suicide is
brought on by pure, cold-blooded mis’ry. I ought
to know. I suicided once myself.”
“Well, you ought to be dead. What hard luck
the world has! ” suggested Caller, evidently
wanting to hear about it.
“ It’s a good while ago. You know that once I
useter drink pretty heavy. Well, I could never
keep a job for more’n a week or two ; most of me
time was took up lookin’ for billets and gettin’
fired outer them, till at last I got chock right up
ter the neck of ev’rything.
“ 1 George, me boy,’ says I one day, after gettin’
the bullet from a boot shop, ‘ yer no plarsted good
in this world ; go and drownd yer self.’ I
chewed it over for a bit, and then I made tracks
for the river. On my way down I happened to look
inter the bar of the Builders’ Arms, and I saw
Mary all by herself. I thought I’d like ter ’ave a
last look at her, so I went in. I hadn’t got a bean
in my pocket, so I sat down on the bench and
began to think of the old woman and the girl. I
s’pose I must ’ave groaned ; anyway, Ma,ry asked
me if I’d ’ave a drink. After I drank it, I felt
better ; and I believe if the boss of the pub ’adn’t
come in just then I wouldn’t have carried out my
morbid design. But, anyhow, he come in. He
looked at me, and then at Mary, suspicious-like.
Then he come round to where I was sittin’.
“ ‘ Git outer this, George,’ he says, not angry,
but just as if he meant it—‘ git outer this before
I break ev’ry -- bone in yer body ! ’
“Well, my intention to suicide came back on
me strong ; and I went. When I got to the
river, I sat down on the bank, and looked at the
water. ‘lt’ll make a nice, soft windin’-sheet,
George,’ says I to meself; ‘ an’ yer should sleep
sound as a —- bell.’ I took out my pipe, and ’ad
a last smoke. Then I prepared, in a methodistical
way, for the end. Not much insanity about that,
was there ? I tell yer I was as sane then as lam
now.”
George resumed : “Then I shut my eyes and
dived. My ’ead bumped on something ’ard, and
I came up quick. I was on’y a few yards from the
bank. ‘ George,’ says I, ‘ this is too —— shallow to
die comfer’bly in; swim out inter the middle and
git sea-room to shuffle off this immortal toil.’ So
out I swims, and as I was swimmin’ strange
thoughts came ter me about the old woman and
the girl. I pictered them mournin’ for me, and
throwin’ their maulers around each other, and
sayin’: ‘Poor George! Poor old George! We
ain’t got nobody ter look ter now.’ How long I
was emerged in these revelations I don’t know,
but I was roused by me head hittin’ against
somethin’. I looked up. It was the other bank
of the river. I crawled out and began to curse.
Even the blasted river wouldn’t take me on.
After I calmed down a bit I felt for my tobacco ;
it was wet. That was the last straw. I went
home ter the old woman.”
C. C. HUTBUSH.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Nance O’Neil’s coming motor-car will, it is said, turn
its back to the audience quicker than any car hitherto
imported.
Brough, dug in Perth at the end of this month, is said
to have become a new man since he went into partner-
ship with Herbert Flemming. He is bilious no more,
neither doth he suffer from ‘ a liver.’ Flemming, his very
antithesis in temperament, complexion and physique,
seems to have brightened Brough’s views of life, whereas
his partner of yore, Dion Bouoicault, was his companion
in cynicism.
“ Smiler” Hales, purple-patch war correspondent, next
threatens Sydney with a lecturing campaign. Hales is
2ft. or so broader that when he spread his glowing adjec-
tives over the city’s sporting papers 12 years ago, and
published his first booklet, “ The Wandering's of a Simple
Child.” Part of that issue was burned in the big Pitt-
street fire, which licked up Gibbs, Shallard’s printery.
Hales has seen since that the flames knew their business
better than he did.
A dramatic authors’ society has been formed in Paris,
whose members are pledged to avoid all allusions to
adultery, and to dispense with the stage undressing of
players and their hiding in cupboards. Objections have
already been received from leading ladies and low
comedians.
The names of Nina Boucicault and Hilda Trevelyan are
associated in the cast of Barrie’s latest comedy at a
London theatre. Long years ago, when Nina Boucicault
was the daintiest little actress in Australia, her colleague,
Mrs. Brough, was known as Miss Trevelyan.
Mrs. Brown-Potter is going to give herself a likely
chance to score, as Madame Hu Barry in a play of that
time. Some stage characters lend themselves to the
decorative arts, graces and mannerisms of “ lovely Cora,”
and Madame Du Barry ought to be one of them.
Marie Lloyd has been ailing more or less ever since she.
returned to* England from Australia. The springtime of
Marie’s career was bright and the summer very warm,
but she’s getting no autumn to speak of.
Time was when Australia wasted a lot of printer’s ink
in announcing that J. C. Williamson had engaged Sousa’s
band for a triumphal tour at the end of the year. Which
year was it when Sousa’s band didn’t arrive ?
The Marshall Hall orchestra season, which is Mel-
bourne’s musical summer, begins at the end of April, and
is to include six orchestral concerts, with probably a per-
formance of Beethoven’s Choral Symphony for an extra
event. The first concert of the series should excite all the-
musical interest that Melbourne is capable of. Dvorak’s
’cello concerto will bring Ilattenbach to the fore, and
burly, brainy Hattenbach is as nearly a “ great ”’cellist
as any merely resident artist can expect to rank. He’d
fill the bill as a famous artist if he were imported from
Europe for the occasion. At the same concert Schubert’s
Tragic Symphony will be heard, likewise “ Tod and Yerk-
larung,” by Richard Strauss. This will be Marshall Hall’s
second attempt to express all the alleged meaning of
Strauss’s tone poem. The first attempt, two years ago,
was a moderate failure.
Horace Lingard, now playing “ comic relief ” to Van
Biene’s’cello, was in the original cast of “ Pinafore ” in
Australia. His wife, the beautiful Alice Dunning Lingard,
who played Josephine, died in London seven years ago.
Lingard himself was for a time Van Biene’s partner, and
has an idea now of staying behind when the ’cello leaves.
It is an old truism that Australians are very fond of a
circus entertainment, but it isn’t generally understood
that Australia gets some of the smartest circuses in the
world in an ordinary way. Interesting to hear what the
Bombay Times of India had to say about Fitzgeralds’
Circus last month, the show being considerably less than
what is expected from the Fitz. Bros, in Sydney and Mel-
bourne : “The fame of the combination had evidently
preceded it from Calcutta. . . On Saturday evening the
usual programme of 19 separate displays was put on . . .
every number was a sample of, for a circus, a unique
standard of excellence, and we doubt whether even the
great and only Barnum and Bailey could have boasted a;
better variety of artists.” With two or three exceptions,
the artists specially “buttered” by the Bombay Times
are Australian natives who have grown up with the
circus.
Capt. Marshall, author of “The Duke of Killiecrankie,”
has written a comedy that travesties the stilted heroics
and romantics of Claude Melnotte and Pauline in “The
Lady of Lyons.” If Marshall’s “ The Lady of Leeds ” gets
a London success, it will probably be secured by J. C.
Williamson for Australia. Meanwhile Bulwer Lytton’s
old play is in rehearsal for the Knight-Jeffries Co. “ The
Lady of Lyons” relies on its sentimental hyperbolisms
which have passed into common quotation. Every jocular
mention of “ a palace on the Lake of Como” is an advt.
for Claude Melnotte’s most hackneyed speech: in fact, a
good many theatre-goers think of Como only as a place
where Pauline’s young man had a “spoof” habitation,
lifting to eternal summer its marble walls, from out a
glossy bower of coolest foliage, musical with birds, whose
songs should syllable her name. The gorgeous artificiality
of Lytton’s word-painting has survived all the other
literary high falutin’ of its period, and continues to sug-
gest that, if “the padded man who wore stays” had
lived in a later age under healthier conditions, he might
have been among the greatest of English writers of fiction
as well as the most versatile.
Warmth of feeling is still the one thing wanting in
Maud MacCarthy’s violin work, seemingly. She gave a
concert at Queen’s Hall, London, last month, with the
Symphony Orchestra to support her, but the public didn’t
support the concert. She didn’t appeal to the more
fleshly musical world. Anyone who remembers Maud
MacCarthy’s performances in Australia, some six years
ago, will see the truth of this recent criticism taken from
London Referee : “ It was very pleasant to listen to
Miss MacCarthy’s reading of the solo part of Brahm’s con-
certs. It was the most virginal I ever heard. The purit}'
of tone, the refinement of expression, the finish of style
all made for this result. I cannot say it fulfilled the com-
poser’s intentions, but it was a lady’s serious endeavor to
express her esteem for a great man.” That’s what’s the
matter with the gifted Sydney girl. She spiritualises the
music beyond its meaning. Under her chaste fiddle-bow
the most ardent love melody assumes an air of platonic
affection.
The latest Sydney aspirant for vocal honors is Miss
Gladys, a daughter of well-known Sydney musician, Herr
Hugo Alpen. She possesses a mezzo-soprano of pleasing
quality and promise, and recently pleased with it
Parkina. Miss Alpen is off to Europe to seek further
training and laurels.
Herbert Flemming, when he makes his appearance as a
member of the new comedy co., will be a stranger to the
bulk of the audience even in Sydney and Melbourne. In
Westralia he will be almost unknown. He left Australia
fourteen years ago, after playing a short season at
Melbourne Bijou with the Charringtons what time Brough
and Boucicault had the theatre. Flemming is best
remembered as an actor of not heavy, but middle-weight,
comedy parts under Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
management. He was associated with Brough in the
first cast of “ The Magistrate ” and with Charles Warner
in “Captain Swift” and other pieces, played the Giddy
Duke in “The Fool’s Revenge” (Rigoletto) and Dazzle in
“London Assurance.” Sometimes he villained or heroed
in melodrama, and he was quite an adept at character
parts in farcical comedy. He came back with Mel. B.
Spurr as his money-spinner. On the death of poor Mel.
B. he returned to England, and presently formed the
combine with Brough.
A few resolutions recently passed by the
Baan Baa Anti-Socialistic Farmers and Settlers’
Association (N.S.W.): —
That settlers should be supplied with wire-netting' by
the Government on reasonable terms.
That any sender of one or more trucks of stock for sale
should be entitled to a railway pass for any distance over
100 miles. , : .
That the Railway Commissioners should make provi-
sion to allow selectors coming to the district from a dis-
tance to travel with their families, luggage, g'oods, etc.,
at a special reduced rate.
The United States have been struck lately
by a “ secret commission ” trouble, too. The
sinners there were the big railroad men. When
it was proved, President Roosevelt promptly de-
cided to put a Bill through, “fixing severe
penalties—imprisonment plus a fine, and not fine
or imprisonment—for the granting of ‘rebates.’”
Has anybody heard of a Bill to gaol iiny Anglo-
Austraiian shipping directors ? And yet Australia :
is the place where Private Enterprise, according
to the Tory press, is “ treated like a criminal ” !
A new anthology of Australian verse, well
chosen, is certainly needed. The “Century of
Australian Song ” with which D. B. W. Sladen
outraged this long-suffering country —and in which
he gave his own ridiculous rhymes equal pride of
place with Kendall’s —has been accepted perforce
because there was nothing better. The collection
which A. Gr. Stephens, of this office, is now com-
pleting for publication will, at any rate, not fail
for want of “ copy.” The works of over 500 local
bards, big and- little, have been ransacked in
search of treasure—with an average return that
certainly would not pay a mining syndicate;
though one nugget makes amends for a lot of mul-
lock. And still the compiler thinks there is more
behind, and will be grateful for any fresh material
that will help to make a representative volume.
“ Marie Blaas ” :
I have just been reading “ The Bulletin Reciter.” Some
eighteen or so pieces, serious, humorous and sentimental,
pleased me very much. I feasted on “ A Twisted Idyll,”
by Frank Morton ; “ Faces in the Street,” by Henry
Lawson ; and “ After the Flood,” by Dora Wilcox. The
last of these, for vivid fancy, deep feeling, delicacy of ex-
pression, and true descriptive power, would be difficult to
surpass. As for “Faces in the Street,” the late J. A.
Andrews, who had the divining gift or knowing faculty,
pronounced it as being only second to the “ Marseillaise.”
I agreed. The only fault I have with Frank Morton,
whose finished and subtle verses possess real psycho-
logical value, is that he does not write more.
Compared with American newspaper poems, Australia
has just right to feel elated. We only want now a
national diet, costume, religion, and ethical philosophy,
a defensive war, a new civil and criminal code, a Thoreau,
Whitman, and Washington, and Australia would be well
on the road of her separate destiny in mighty matters as
well as in poetry.
The Roman Catholic Sacerdotal Cat has
jumped. Cardinal Moran (14/3/’O5) to the Sydney
Hibernians :
Here in Australia they could make their great country
great among the nations of the earth. Let them not be
led away by any cries of “ Socialism ’ meant only to
alarm. He had been unable to discover this much-taiked-
of Socialism.- Let all work together to secure the rights
of the people, and be terrified by no political will-o’-the-
wisp. Let them go on till they won.
How will the R.C. newspaper, whose hen-editor
led it into a wild attack on the Labor party for
Socialism, now trim its sails ?
The other Sunday, at St. Kilda (Melb.),
when a preposterously ugly Boer warmorial was
unveiled, the “function” included a singing of
the “Old Hundredth ” by the audience in general.
That is the hymn which Kruger’s people sang
before going into action. In connection with a
monument to Australian troops who fell in South
Africa it sounded very like an outbreak of pro-
Boerism.
Pugh’s Queensland official Almanac and
Directory for 1905 (47th year of publication) main-
tains the work’s reputation for comprehensiveness
of information and convenience of reference. The
Directory and Gazetteer features have received
special attention, also the Parliamentary, postal,
trade, shipping, agricultural and meteorological
sections, f
Hair troubles l Why not write me and let
me explain how best to use Capilla Hair Tonic
for your particular hair worry ? All chemists and
stores sell “Capilla,” 2s. 6d. a bottle. W. O.
liichards, Inventor, 104 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Drinks are a shilling in Durban, even for
a bottle of lemonade, and all other goods are dear
in proportion. This is not caused by heavy
freights, Customs'duties, local cost of production,
or any other circumstance save rent. The town
and suburban lots are all owned by two or three
Jews and a few Arabs, and they have put the
screw on. They are asking hundreds of pounds
per foot for land which sold at £l2 per block
before the war, and the rents of business places
are exorbitant. As for private houses, a four-
roomed cottage brings 50s. per week, and the
landlords are raking in all the results of other
Shen’s labor.
A correspondent from Tamworth (N.S.
Wales) :
The Chinese have a strong hold on the commercial
life of this town, and are not an unimportant factor of
the population. There has been a steady invasion main-
tained for years past, and naturally we white busi-
ness people suffer. We have to pay our laborers
a decent wage; while the Mongol, living on the
smell of an oiled rag- himself, boards and lodges his
yellow slave for next to nothing, and pays him a rate of
wag-e impossible to the European.


BAKER & ROUSE p*®py.
FIRST 119 in PHOTOGRIPIiy
Lies chiefly in the possession of a really
good Camera, one that requires no
lengthy study to understand and will
not waste Plates. The “AUSTRAL”
CAMERAS fulfil all requirements both of
Amateur and Professional at a mini-
mum of cost.
“Austral No. 3”
mm
I M
m
■ r
is an ideal Camera for
the beginner and
COSTS ONLY
1 Guinea
A Magazine for Twelve
Quarter-Plates with
Achromatic Lens & all
Modern Attachments.
gs
AUSTRAL NO. 4
An Elegant Pocket Combination
for Quarter- Plates or Roller
Films at will. Mo Loose Parts.
“BECK" R. S. LENS, Patent
Shutter.
PRICE (complete)
£4 12s. 6d.
“Austral No. 4.
Special ”
similar design to above, but
fitted with
« GOERZ» SPECIAL LENS.
PRICE
ALL “AUSTRAL” CAMERAS MADE TO ORDER FOR AUSTRALIA BY BRITISH MAKER,
AND SOLD ONLY BY
BAKER & ROUSE PROPT. Ltd
375 George Street, Sydney
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane
260 Collins Street, Melbourne
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide
ir
Correspondence Invited.
Mail Orders Carefully Executed.
All Goods sent Free and Safe by
Post on receipt of remittance.
Send for Illustrated Price List
e
No. Cl72l—lsct. Gold and Real
Pearl Photo. Pendant, £2 123 6d
No. Cl7O9 —15ct. Gold and Fine
Pearl, Pearl and Ruby,
or Pearl and Turquoise Photo.
Pendant, £4
Stewart Dawson & Co.
No. C1737—15ct. Gold and Pearl,
or Pearl and Turquoise Star,
£4 15s
THE POPULAR JEWEL.
THE STAR Brooch and Pendant Combination is the most wanted
piece of Jewellery adornment at the present time, but don’t
make the mistake of buying- a Star that will cause regret later on.
Here are to be seen all the handsome styles—Stars that have passed
expert judgment, and will stand comparison with the best Stars
made. On Stars, as well as on all the varied lines we sell, our
prices—quality considered—stand boldly forth in their reasonable-
ness. All the Stars shown are substantially made of 15ct. Gold,
and are set with REAL Pearls. We emphasise the word real as so
many Stars are offered for sale set with Imitation Pearls.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
No. Cl7O3 —15ct. Gold and Pearl, or
Pearl and Turquoise Star, £7 10s
Stewart Dawson & Co.
No. CIGG3—G-point Pearl Star,
Isct. Gold, £3 10s
Stewart Dawson & Co.
No. C 173S —16ct. Gokl and Pearl, or
Peail and Turquoise Star, £ 5 5s
Stewcrt Dawson & Co.
No. Clfi 9 * 1 net. Oold and Pearl, 01
Pearl and Turquoise Star, £2 17s 6d
4 i
Stewart Dawson & Co.
No. C1723—100t. Gold and Pearl, or
Pearl and Turquoise Star, £7 15s
Stewart Dawson & Co.
No. C1735—15ct. Gold and
Pearl, or Pearl and Turquoise
Star, £6 tOs
Stewart Dawson & Co.
No. Cl733—J sct. Gold and Pearl, or
Pearl and Turquoise Star, £5 10s
ff a
sdf


g
SOLD
BY
sdfg
sd
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. llow to Get Rich, Is posted. Ur. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is (id. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marik
' Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, is (id. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.'
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handyisoox, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is (id. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s (id. Aus r. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
NOJVIE CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posf.d. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor: Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Like of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is Cd. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. |j* - Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
«
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to-Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, Oil practical illustrations, 2s Gd.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Me roan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, Cd posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d nost. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingfirsoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full a reckons, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s fd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Usf, It, Is Gd post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moor.e’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
hound, 10s Cd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, lleptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of tiie First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
W. DUNKLING,
THE JE WELLER,
Watchmaker & Silversmith,
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT FOR
WALTHAM WATCHES.
FREE. —The best and most complete Catalogue
published in Australia of Watches, .Jewellery and
Plated Goods posted free on application.
\
\
j<Py-
%
L 1
No. 446.
GENT’S STERLING SILVER HUNTING
KEYLESS WALTHAM WATCH,
Compensation Balance, Fully Jewelled, Extra Heavy
Case. Specially made.for the Australian climate.
Guaranteed in writing fdr 3 years. Post Free to any
part of Australia—
fg
THE most dangerous policy a man can pursue is to
neglect his Health and bring about his destruction.
Millions do this annually. A young man dies to-day.
Why? Imagine a man at 23, strong and healthy at 22,
dying of a decline of his physical powers. But so it is in
the world to-day. The way to the modern cemetery is paved
with negligence and misplaced intentions.
READER, WHAT IS THE MATTER WITH YOU ?
You may feel ill, and not understand why you are so. Reflect. Was
your father a healthy man ? No. What did he suffer from ? Blood
Disease ? You may inherit it to-morrow. What is that sore ? It proves
corrupted blood. Your life, and that of others, is in danger. The Medical
Experts of
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
MEDICAL INSTITUTE
are the men to consult, for they have made a special study of all classes of
diseases arising from impure blood, congenital causes, or hereditary taint,
ihey cure to stay cured, and they cure rapidly, permanently and secretly.
READ THESE PROOFS:
DEBILITY.
Mr. CHARLES F. CARMICHAEL,
of Station, near Brewarrina, who
had to give up work preparatory t 6
coming to a Sydney hospital, consulted
us, and in three months’ time wrote :
“ Your methods of regenerating
weak men are wonderful. 1 am
surprised at my ability to work.
Thanks to you I am a cured man.”
BLOOD POISON.
Mr. HENRY M. STONE, of Perth,
W.A., whose condition could not have
been more serious, after four months’
treatment writes
“ I am glad to say that I am
much improved in health. fly
friends thought I was a dead man.
You have saved my life.”
cases
DIS-
A few weeks < f oar remarkable treatment will positively cure lonw-standintr
•f INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA, STOMACH TROUBLES,' SLEEPLESSNESS,
ORDERED FUNCTIONS from whatever cause arising, WEAKNESS IN MEN
ENFEEBLED CONSTITUTIONS, PALPITATION, GOUT, RHEUMATISM, LUM-
BAGO, SLUGGISH LIVER, or KIDNEY and BLADDER DERANGEM ENTS. Certain
forms of Paralysis, Anaemic and Nervous Headaches, Hysteria, Epilepsy, Nervousness,
or St. Vitus Dance, yield quickly to this treatment, endorsed by some of the
greatest scientists in England and Europe.
MEN —Young, Middle-aged and Old ! Are you Weak, Low-Spirited, Tired of Life?
Have you utterly failed in your efforts to regain Health? Write to-day to the
Specialists of THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
and obtain their opinion upon those diseases which sap the sinews of sound health
and uprOot the very foundation of life. They have a special cure that remains cured.
Over 30 years they have been Conquerors of Disease !
There are no greater medical experts practising in Australia than those world-
renowned Specialists, Authors, and Lecturers. Wherever Disease is, there they have
installed their skill and made their names famous. Wherever the Blight of Health
has made its foul appearance, there they have poured the sunshine and brightness of
Health and Happiness into the house and home darkened by physical adversity.
Tijc freeman mw Wallace
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute
Richard Wallace, M.D., Physician-in-Chief
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Principal Women’s Dept.
And at MELBOURNE
\CE EX7*^
1
*3
C
•S'
*
o
<?
A
❖
NEW
GUINEA
o
noatherm
Teaßiroßf*
m
QUEENSLAND
1
west
AUSTRALIA
SOUTH
AUSTRALIA
NEW
I SOUTH
[X WALES’
V__,
Al VICTORIA^
V
V*
<
X
b
A
Pt
U
STR
UNIVERSAL
OPERATIONS.
rpHE Specialists
have Patients
in all parts of the
world, and treat
them as success-
fully as if they had
personally seen
them. Many of
these reside i n
Hongkong(China),
Singapore, Cal-
cutta, the Trans-
vaal, Port Said,
Gibraltar and
America. Medi-
cines forwarded
free from observa-
tion. Letters are
treated with
secrecy. Profes-
sional opinions are
given free, pei son-
ally or by letter.
“CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES.”
This is a magni-
ficent 570 page
medical volume, of
120 full and half-
] a ,e illustrations,
31 chapters deal-
ing with General
Diseases, a Vocabu-
lary of 1070 medical
terms, and a list of
50 valuable pre-
scriptions, post
paid to any address
for One Shilling
only.
The Troubles of Men.
Upon the shoulders of man lies the brunt of the responsibilities of life. It is necessary for him to be
healthy, for Health is the Magic Key that opens the Golden Doorways to the Shining Walks of happiest Life.
The Sick Man’s ways are Shrouded in Shadows, Darkened by Despair, and Melancholic with Misery and Remorse.
Weary, degenerated men, walking the earth like shadows, pauperised in blood—these are the men upon whom
decay has set its inevitable blight. Degeneration of the vital essences of life necessary is present, and the
victim can count the weeks left to him. Any man in this condition, if not attended to by a Specialist courts
death. The Specialists of the Freeman and Wallace Institute are the People's Specialists.
Good Health is the working capital of Humanity. Those who lose that are wrecked indeed. If you have
not the life and strength of an able-bodied, ambitious person, you should have yourself examined by these
eminent Specialists, who have cured so many thousands of what others have considered “ hopeless cases.” No
matter if Disease has you completely in its grasp ; no matter if, through violation of the hygienic rules of
health, your System is Completely Shattered and Broken Down, write to these Experts, who oiler you a System
of Treatment entirely Original and peculiar to themselves, which has been the means of saving thousands of
others ; and, if you will only take their treatment, they will surely save you.
Write at once, and do not delay, for delay is the precipice upon which thousands stand to-day. Beneath
is the abyss of death. The Specialists may be consulted daily, FREE OF CHARGE, and private interview
may be arranged upon any important cases. The Physician-in-Chief, RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.,L.R.C.P.,E.,
L.F.P.S., E., L.M., is registered by Australian, English and American Medical Boards, and bears the highest
credentials as a Medical Expert and Skilful Diagnostician. He is late of Hospital Staff, Melbourne, and Imperial
Army Medical Staff. A famous lady doctor, Dr. Elisabeth White, M.D., is also associated with the Institute,
“Engineer”: The greatest railroading
changes of the past 12 months are at Chicago and
Pittsburg. Over 20 lines enter Chicago. The
principal co. has just revolutionised its stock and
permanent way. New engines, new trucks, new
tracks, to keep up to or ahead of the time. The
modern requirement of rolling stock is doubled
size and weight. The company has sacrificed a
bridge which cost £200,000, replacing it with one
cf double cost. Vt Pittsburg the alteration is yet
more remarkable. One railway co. had a virtual
monopoly. Ramsey and his associates have broken
it down, the legal proceedings being more difficult
even than the gigantic works of construction. The
new Boston terminal is now in working order ;
cost, two millions sterling. But more wonderful
is the electrisation of London’s underground
railroads; next year there will be GO miles,
including the converted part with the new
tubes. All power is generated at Chelsea
power-house. After these, the Zambesi Bridge,
highest in the world, of one span; it had to be
constructed by pushing forward from each end, as
props were impracticable. 1 he expression “ Cape
to Cairo railway ” is used ; but 4000 miles will
ultimately be by rail, and 2000 by water, on the
lakes. Birmingham Technical College, at Brook-
bank, is a huge result of Germany’s impulse to
Rng’land. A million has been spent, and Roclge
and Lockyer open their mouths as wide as three
millions for the ultimate lay-out.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers has been
talking wildly about the richness of the land
between Manilla and Birraba. He stated that
there is nothing finer anywhere, and that all, ex-cept
the steepest hills, could be put under the plough.
The local Barrabases must have taken Joey a long
detour round the valleys, in order to avoid the
bad country and to show him the best patches.
About one-third of the land on the direct route
between the two townships could not carry a
’possum to the acre. Further, should the Manilla-
Barraba connection be made, it is 100 to 1 that
the Bingera people will never rest until they also
are connected with the metropolis. And when
that is done, then the Moree-Inverell line, a piece
of madness from the beginning, will be made a
greater farce than ever. Carruthers is evidently
even more susceptible to surroundings than was
Owe’Sullivan—lie is prepared to promise anything
after a good dinner.
Latest idea, patented by a Sydney man,
is to bring the mountain air down to the con-
sumptive. First catch your consumptive and put
him in an air-tight room ; at one end of the room
have an air-exhaust: at the other a tube leading
up to a balloon anchored at say (1000 feet altitude.
The high air, dry and sterile, would come down
and fill the room constantly.
“Mark Twain” concerning some early
Sydney worries:—
England recruited and officered a kind of militia force
of one thousand uniformed civilians, called the “ New
South Wales Corps,” and shipped it. This was the worst
blow of all. The colony fairly staggered under it. The
corps was an object lesson of the moral condition of Eng-
land outside the gaols. The colonists trembled. It was
feared that next there would be an importation of the
nobility.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold city or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fne.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.L. A.
General Manager and Aetnarv — Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Wire Cloth Weavers.
sdf
gs
dfg
sdf
Makers of all Kinds , „
toSte.., Iron. Of WOVC Wll'C
Galvanised, Copper, and Brass.
■+...
WE HAKE A SPECIALITY OF
HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
We have the BEST MEN and
LA TEST MA CHINER Y.
We would be pleased to get in communication with
those interested in Wire Cloth.
WE WILL BE FOUND QUICK, CIVIL, OBLIGING AND CHEAP.
g
sdf
gsd
fg
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 411 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Factories: 633 A George St., and Albion Lane.
P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
ymk
ess
m
BsISBSSi
FISHING
Only the Highest Quality
Fishing Tackle stocked.
jr —— 111,
IF YOU WANT THE BEST,
SEND FOB OUR LISTS.
WE HAVE SUPPLIED ANGLERS
FOR FIFTY YEARS.
WE ARE PURELY AND SIMPLY
A FISHING TACKLE SHOP.
EAST WAY BROTHERS
409 & 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
■■
POST
POST CARD
<CARO ('
*%}*
POST CARD
N
k
sdfg
TO INTRODUCE OUR NEW
PICTORIAL POST CARDS, best Id. Post Card in Australia
As a huge advertisement we will forward to anyone sending their
name and address, 120 of our best Id. post cards free. Anyone may
send. We want no money. We merely ask you to sell these post cards
amongst your friends in packets of six at 6d per packet. After selling ,
the cards (which will not take long) you return the 10s. and we send
you any present you may choose from a list we send. By continuing
the sale of these cards you may earn a Solid Sterling Silver Watch
(Ladv’s or Gent's}. We take all risks. Cards returnable if not sold, i
Send at once to THE PICTORIAL POST CARD CO.,
RK Falmouth Chambers,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
Aim. ±.7*jsam-B!:.ysrar~
HARDY
700 Prizes.
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Do.
Ltd.
S "5T X> 3XT 3E3 "ST,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
Al] Consignments of EH EJSIHS, HIDES, TALLOW, anti 1.1 ARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient 35X1?5it3.'.3, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
The Case of Mrs. A. WEAVER.
(By a Sydney Report..'.)
.No one can tell the self-denying work
which good men have done in the early
days of this country, neither can we
exaggerate the nobleness of spirit
which animates present-day people in a
disiro to ameliorate distress, as much
as lies in their power. Therefore, the
public should be informed of some of
these efforts, one of which .was made
by Mrs. Alice Weaver, of No. 7 Louis-
street, Redfern, who replied to the re-
porter by saying :
“About this time last year I was
living in Tolopea-street, and it was
just before I left there for this place
that I was fortunate in casting aside a
complaint that had worried me for no
less than eight years. What a fearful
life of suffering mine had been all that
time, to be sure, and to think that
nothing in the world could benefit me
made mv spirits droop lower than
they wifi ever be again, I hope."
"What made you think that nothing
could bencht you queried the
writer.
“I arrived at that conclusion because
nothing had clone me good so far, and
J believe 1 tried every medicine going.
At the time my second child was born
J was under a doctor who did every-
thing he could for me, but still my
health remained as bad as it could be.
Indeed, at that period I was nearly
dead with indigestion, although I diet-
ed myself and did all that could be
done to keep my torments in check.
It was of no avail though, for when I
ate anything I could hardly breathe
owing to a feeling which came like a
lump in my chest, from which place a
sharp pain went right through to the
centre of my shoulders. I then remain-
ed in the utmost agony until the food
was vomited up again, after which I
felt so exhausted that I
think of doing a thing in the house
until 1 had had a good rest. It would
surprise you if you only knew how
poor my appetite was. You would
wonder how anybody could keep alive
with it, and as for my head —oh ! my
sufferings with it were awful. The most
piercing pains at one time and the
mod depressing aches at another.
Really, 1 think it was a marvel how I
kept my senses with the agony 1 en-
dured in this head, and it’s strange
that, I didn't meet with many a nastv
ace dent through the giddiness which
used to overtake me.”
"Why? Were you ever seized with it
in the'street'?'’
“Often I was attacked when walkino-
down the road, when my sight would
leave me, and I felt horrible ; and suf-
fering so lon'T had played havoc with
my nervous system, too. I would stand
for an hour at the corner of a street
before,- I would dare to cross it, and
when I made up my mind it wasi gene-
ral!s'" just as a tram or something was
p>ss no-, and I'd have to run back out
of the way. ’I hat was always my
trouble. I could not make up my
in nd to do a thing for a long while,
and when I did it invariably turned
out wrong, which showed that ner-
vousness can throw a person’s mind
into a state of confusion. But I’m not
at. all like that now. I can dodge in
and out, of the thickest traffic.' and
never have the slightest fear of get-
ting down; 1 can walk about in the
dark at any hour _ of the night, and
not feel the least bit afraid, though it,
is only a year since I was so nervous
that l couldn’t do such things if I bad
been given a thousand pounds.’’
“Mow do you account for such an
extraordinary change ?’’
“It's easy to do that. It was Cle-
ments Tonic which effected the altera-
tion. and to my last day on earth f
shall feel grateful to that remedy for)
Eight Years' Suffering.
A PERMANENT CURE.
the way it pulled me round, for when
J started with it I was so reduced in
flesh that there was only the frame of
ine left, and often and often 1 felt lit
only to go away and lie down and die.
1 was a misery to myself and every-
body around me, and to tell you the
honest truth 1 never thought I would
live through it all. All the years X
was ailing there didn’t seem to be a
solitary thing- that went right. Mv
eyes used to feel heavy enough to drop
out of their sockets, and 1 was affected
in the mouth by such a bitter taste
that it made me. feel sick of a morning
after putting in the usual restless
nights that had done so much to-
wards making a wreck oi me. If I
slept at all 1 dreamt such awful
things about the children that I used
to call out for help, and on awaking
would find myself bathed in perspira-
tion and trembling like a leaf. 10\cn
in the daytime 1 was always imagin-
ing something terrible was going to
happen, although it never came to
pass, but still that fact did not keep
me from getting as gloomy and sad-
hearted as ever woman was. , And"
these were just the a cry thing's that
Clements Tonic showed itself to be the
master of, for it sent such vigour
through my frame when I had been
taking it a couple of weeks that t
could not help feeling joyful in the be-
lief that at last my health had taken
a beneficial turn. .1. got more Clements
Tonic, and as each, bottle was iinished
so did my tiro spec ts improve, for l
commenced to take my meals with a
degree of heartiness which astonished
my people as much as it pleased them,
and to my own satisfaction and de-
light the former discomforts attending
my meals were ctuickly out of exist-
ence. An overloaded sensation in the
stomach, which, made my clothes, fee!
too tight for me, had been one of my
annoyances, and I used to belch up
wind frequently ; but a short comsa ol
Clements Tonic got those troubles un-
der, besides removing from my loins
the aches that were particularly pain
ful whenever 1 bad to bend down for
anything. Oh, dear! what a chan gee
woman I am now to then ! My limbs
do not ache from weakness like they
formerly did, and I can go a' out mv
work as cheerfully and as actively as
any housewife in the country-, 1 do not
spend any restless ni- v hts now. re per
dream during mv slim, and the pains
that used to abound have long since
been driven away from every part ol
my body/’
“And have you had no physical
troubles whatever since you were
cured ?’’
“Mot in any shape or form, and now
when . I go to see any of my old
friends they laugh to see me looking so
well, and it’s enough to make them
considering I was so like death a year
ago. Well, Clements Tonic made me
the healthy woman I am, and for th =
sake of other sufferers 1 trust you'll
publish this interview in any way you
think best.”-
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, ALKIE WEAVER, of No. 7 Lonis-
strect, Rod fern, in the Slate of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that T have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
inn- of four folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to four, and that, it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my iiiuess
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains mv full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I ft-ivo voluntarily,
without receiving- any payment ; and. I makn
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of the Oaths Art, 3 900.
Subscribed and declared at Rcdfern this
sixth day of September, one thousand nine
hundred aDd four, before Pie,
L. BREARLEY, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bobble are universally acknowledged
I*o r>EJj*Y COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS, to.
Kent Brewery, SITSMJESIT.
SPIRITS.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works s Birmingham^tnglandi
sdf
These series ~of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the' roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
gs
• ••
NEWCASTLE CUP. Newcastle, N.S.W., April 1 ...
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 22
SYDNEY CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 24
ADELAIDE CUP, Adelaide, S.A., May 10
50,0C0 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5 2 each.
IMF»ORTA.]XrT IST OTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d . on each
ss» Ticket, and 4d. on each lOs. Ticket . Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN" GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business Under same management as for several years past. Parcels may bo forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
m
m
dfg
iai
M
&
sdf
gsd
fg
sdfg
THE WAY I DO MY BUYIfl^
When the days' work l've
time to remember that the boys oi>
myself want’some New Clothing j
just sit down comfortably and write to
LINCOLN,,//
STUART a CoS
FLINDERS STREET. MELBOURNE (||
for their book "The Philosophy of Dress" and?
some patterns of cloths, of which they send]
me a great variety by return of post, I thenl
read the book and see what will suit me. '
Having made my selection, and come to a'
decision, I send them the order on their
special Measure Form, when finished, the goods
ore sent to me and the Carriage is prepaid.
I find by this plan that I buy just as well aa
if I was in town, and am splendidly fitted
and suited in every way.
To oblige the Firm / always tell them
which paper l saw their advertisement in.
ns^; \yi>r
Write to-day
for
Patterns
and the Book.
201.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOTTS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colcls on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption, has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
. BRONCHITIS.
A Sydney Stock and Share Broker expresses
Gratitude and Appreciation of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
It proved a most effective remedy for a
severe attack of Bronchitis.
Mr. \V. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I lately had a severe
attack of Bronchitis, and, acting: on the advice of a friend,
obtained a supply of your Bronchitis Cure. lam pleased
to inform you it has proved a most effective remedy,
causing me to feel grateful to you for furnishing such a
valuable medicine to the public. May you meet with the
success you so well deserve. I place this communica-
tion at vour service, and remain. Dear Sir, Yours
faithfully, HENRY FREX3H,
Stock and Share Broker, 93 Pitt-street, Sydney.
’“asthma.
A Five Years case.
At times very had indeed.
Quickly and completely Cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis and Asthma Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —For five or six years I was
troubled with asthma, at times very bad indeed. 1 was
very ill just after Christinas, so sent to the local chjurist
for a bottle of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I took
the first dose on going to bed, and.was not troubled that
night. I finished the medicine, and have not had a
touch of the asthma since. I tell everyone about it.
M. MURRAY.
Postmistress, Pampoolah, Manning River, N.S.W.
HAY ASTHMA.
A Severe Attack Relieved in Ten Minutes
by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
The Effect was Wonderful.
Mr. W. G. Hearne Dear Sir, —About three weeks ago,
while in the vicinity of musty chaff, I gradually felt
a difficulty to breathe. My nose began to run, and to all
appearances I was developing- a severe attack of Bron-
chitis or Asthma. At last T could stand it no longer. I
then tried 3 our Bronchitis Cure, .and its effect was
wonderful. In less than tern minutes I was all right
again. Such a result, and so quick, astounded me.
This is no exaggeration, I am pleased to say.—Yours
truly, S. H. MAYO, Meredith, Victoria.
BRONCHI CIS and ASTHMA.
A Sydney Resident Suffered for Over Sixty
Y ears.
So Bad He Dared Hot Stir.
Relieved in a Few Minutes by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
"Would Give £5O for the Same Benefit rather
than Suffer.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Friend, —Chronic Bronchitis I had from birth, and
I am now 06 years old. Some time back I contracted
Asthma, and for months I was so bad that any remedy
that had previously relieve l smothering- was of no use to
me. I was so bad "that I dared not stir,, and spent the
worst night I ever had. When, in a conversation, Mr.
Marsh, .1.1’., of Balmain, Sydney, kindly told me that a
fr'end of h s was using your Bronchitis Cure, and that it
was good. So my sister bought me a bottle of it, and in
a few,m nutes after taking the first dose I could breathe a
little. Tlie next day I was better, and kept getting better
every day. To-day lam better than I have been for the
last seven years. I took the medicine as directed, six
bottles, and it.cost me less than £l. I would give £5O for
the same benefit rather than suffer as I did. Please make
what use of this letter you think fit. If by so doing it
would only cause one to get rid of this fearful complaint.
—Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM CANHAM,
103 Curtis Road, Balmain, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Its Efficacy in chest complaints testified to
by a Grateful Victorian.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in
adding my testimony in praise of your invaluable Bron-
chitis Cure. I have used it for the last three or four years,
and its efficacy I have fuliy proved in common colds,
severe colds, croupy coughs, and other similar chest com-
plaints. I have given it to infants a few weeks old, young
children and adults of all ages, and have never known it
to fail in relieving at once, anti rapidly effecting a cure
with a few doses; I have recommended it to many of my
friends, and they have fully proved its wonderful curative
properties. I feci very grateful to you for a chest medi-
cine so valuable, and cheap enough to be available to any-
one. Trusting its present popularity and sales will be
doubled, I am, yours very gratefully,
EDWARD JONES,
Mount Bruno, Mokoan, via Glenrowan, Vic.
BRONCHITIS-
An English Lady so ill that the Doctor
held out no hope.
"Was given Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and it
effected a complete recovery.
Mr. Hearrte. Dear Sir. —Not long since I had occasion
to visit the old country, and before leaving Melburne pur-
clnsed a bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, which I took
with me. When I arr.ved in Leeds I found that my niece,
Miss O. Matthews, was suffering from a very severe attack
of Bronchitis, in fact, she was so bad that the family doctor
held out no hope of her recovery. She was then given
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure according to the direction on
the label, and I am very pleased to say that it effected a
complete cure. R. J. MATTHEWS,
c/o Allan & Co., Collins-st., Melbourne.
ASTHMA.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Sir, —I am thankful to fay that the medicine you sent
for asthma has had a wonderful effect. I have not taken
all the Bronchitis Cure, as I did not. need it ; therefore
I send you my hearty good wishes for your future success.
I myself will, for the benefit of others, make it known to
all i know. lam T 3 years of age-—Yours truly,
JOHN BRAY,
Alliance-street, Clunes, Victoria.
BRONCHO-PNEUMONIA.
Two Severe Cases cured by One Bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward without
delay another small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure: The
bottle I had from you has cured two bf my children, hut I
do not feel safe without it in the house. I have also re-
commended it to my friends. I lost a fine little girl, three
years of age, from influenza and Broncho-Pneumonia. I
really believe if I had had your medicine my child would
not have died, for the other two, a boy five years old, and
a baby S months old, were suffering exactly in the same
way, and it acted like magic on them ; in fact, a small
bottleful cured both of them ; so trusting you will forward
it without delay—l am, vours most gratefull'*,
. ' (Mrs.) E. D. WARD.
Cassilis, via Swift’s Creek, Gippsland, Vie.
A Queensland Sufferer from Bronchitis.
Seventy-two years of age, weak and
Wasted.
The Doctor considered it a hopeless case.
Cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I beg leave to draw your
attention to a remarkable Cure of Bronchitis, which disease
attacked me last May. It was looked upon by the doctor
as a hopeless case. In such an extremity I naturally
looked about for something to try. I thought it a hard
thing, after 72 years’ experience of the ups and downs of
this life, .to die in such an inglorious manner ; besides, I
was very poor in flesh, and thin, and this stimulated me
to make an effort for recovery, if only to improve my con-
dition. I saw your Bronchitis Cure advertised, and
thought I would give it a trial, so I sent to W. H. Harris,
chemist, Gill-street, Charters Towers, and got a small
bottle of it. I had scarcely finished it when I gave up all
thought of leaving my wife a widow, and hopefully looked
forwarded to many more delightful days of up and downs,
principally downs. The second small bottle caused the
Bronchitis and me to part company, greatly to its regret,
I opine. The third bottle stood me on my legs to receive
the congratulations of my friends.
I have been a resident of Charters Towers for 30 years,
and, being gifted with the spirit of good fellowship, have
not the least objection to j'ou making any use of this
testimonial you think proper, as a means of relieving
others similarly situated to mvself.
' JOHN SHEPHERD,
Queenton, Charters Towers, Queensland.
Believed by one dose of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and cured by two bottles.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony
to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for nine months, and the cough was so dis-
tressingly bad at nights, I was obliged to get up and sit
by the fire. I had medical advice, and tried other
remedies, without avail. I tried yours, and never had a
fit of coughing after taking the first dose, and though I
have had but two bottles, I feel I am a different man, and
the cough has vanished. You may depend upon my
making known the efficacy of your wonderful remedy ta
anyone I see afflicted.—Yours faithful! v\,
JAME.j ASTBURY,
Dergholm, Victoria
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; targe Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR, ,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
e«j*oH | P«p | oT T offi ce: tf o , 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


To wash clothes as they
ought to be washed it takes
SUNLIGHT SOAP
fliilEY BRAND
WON’T WASH CLOTHES
BUT IT IS REALLY CAPITAL
FOR SCOURING KITCHEN UTENSILS'
The Nursery Soap
is
Wright’s Coal Tar Soap.
Suitable for children of all ages*
Protects from all infection*
Restoration to Health.
(By “Sano.”)
i O ne of the supremest joys of life is the experience of full-blooded health after one has suffered
bodily pain for a lengthy period, especially when the illness has been of such a nature that nearly all
hope of recovery has been abandoned. In these days of strict attention to hygiene, diet, and physical
culture, the maintenance of good health has been reduced to a science, and it is comparatively easy to
remain well and fit when once in proper form, whilst there are a large number of disorders that afflict
humanity which now can be avoided, or readily cured, if the origin of such disorders is understood.
It is quite common, still, to regard Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia,, Lumbago, Sciatica, Gravel, and
Stone, Bladder Troubles, Biliousness, Indigestion, Jaundice, Sick Heahache, Anaemia, General
Debility, and most blood disorders as being of a specific nature, each calling for independent treat-
ment, when,, in fact, all of these disorders have their origin in an inefficient action of the kidneys and
hver. The importance of the work which nature has apportioned to the kidneys and liver will be
more fully realised by a short account of their respective functions
The kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains
m weight of unc acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from the third of an ounce to
nearly an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily all this solid matter leaves the body
dissolved m the urme but if, through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins
contaminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as Rheumatism
Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Gravel, Stone and Bladder
Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some urine, passed
the first thing of a morning, m a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If it is then
cloudy shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating about in it
the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore their vigor or
Bright s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning will result ’
, J - e - s an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made
from the blood Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every dav. The liver takes
sugar from the blood converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be abb to again supply it
to the blood as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble
Into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles which have
lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from some
Disorders IndlgeStlon ’ Blllousness ’ Anaemia, Jaundice, Sick Headache, General
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by
the liver, that where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys, the liver becomes
affected m sympathy and vice versa It was the realisation of the importance of this
close union of the labor of those vital organs which resulted in the discovery of the medicine
now known throughout the world as Warner’s Safe Cure. Certain medical men, k
what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be found which would act s pecifically on
both the kidneys and the liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive search for such a medium
their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compounding a medicine which possesses
the required quality m the fullest degree Warner’s Safe Cure exhibits a marvellous healing action
all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and liver, and restoring them as it Is able to
do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all complaints due to the retention’in the svstem of
urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys and liver naturally eliminates the
poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease. Cures effected by Warner’s Safe V w
are permanent simply because they are natural. [9]
Western Camps.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THREE men stood with their glasses lifted,
Night was around them and flaring lamps :
“ Here’s to the tried and true and sifted ;
Here’s to the flotsam tossed and drifted }
Here’s to the men in the Western Camps.
“ Fill and drink (there is little drinking
Night or day on the lonely track),
Mostly heroes are hourly sinking.
Mostly, vain in the firelight thinking,
Gather the hearts of gold out back.
“Stars that fall are their lot forever ;
Lights that perish and stars that fall ;
Fighting Fate with a brave heart ever—
Drifting leaves on a wayward river—
Mon for ever in spite of all.
“Here’s to the gallant souls defeated ;
Here’s to the heroes.under-trod—
Hope-abandoned and mirage-cheated,
And, yet, by the right of their failure, seated
Somewhere close to the feet of God.
“ Here’s to the heart that braves undaunted
Toil and trouble for home and vifife ;
Here’s to the fallen-spirit taunted ;
Here’s to the memory, sorrow-haunted ;
Here’s to the soul grown sick of life.
“Drink to the man in the firelight sitting ;
Drink to his mistress of long ago ;
Well—’twere well—and the time were fitting,
If, in the shades of firelight flitting,
She should come with her eyes aglow.
“Drink to the purpose, iron, oaken,
Brought to nought by a woman’s guile ;
Drink to men with an old love-token
Somewhere—close to their brave hearts broken ;
Drink to the martyred souls that smile.
“Drink to courage and all fine daring—
Spirit trampling the flesh beneath ;
Drink to the reckless heart uncaring ;
Drink to mates at the last pinch sharing
Their little all in the face of death.
“Last toast this... may their hearts discover,
On every track that the outcast tramps,
A friend in need and at need a lover,
Good roads beneath them and kind stars over,
And pleasant dreams in their Western Camps.
RODERTO QUINN.
Fact’ry ’Ands.
A LITTLE LOVE AFFAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FEATHERS, the packer, owed his name to
a strange set of side-whiskers he once
grew. Over these the feathery paper-dust
collected till they looked like the wings of an
adolescent gosling. He soon wearied of the nick-
name, and shaved off his fluff, thinking the insult
would pass with it. He was mistaken. The
sobriquet of the foreman, Fuzzy Ellis, had a
similar origin. His dead-looking, reddish hair
was as fine as tow ; it was always distracted, and
in it the fibrous dust gathered so thickly that
every jerk of his head produced a miniature dust
storm.
Fuzzy was a queer bird. Besides being long
and lank, he had a prematurely withered appear-
ance. The white apron that enveloped him gave
him something of the aspect of a wilted candle.
His eye had a hunted look that corresponded with
the distraction of his hair; his pinched face might
have been put on his ,bones with a palette-knife
and had the sallow livery of Spats’ factory. It
Was always moist, as with trepidation, and from it
oozed driblets of whiskers. He was the dustiest
man in the world, and gaunt with everlasting
worry.
Fuzzy could not be imagined apart from the
factory. He was first to come in the morning,
last to leave at night. Nobody in the firm re-
collected his beginning. It was vaguely surmised
that he was born in the factory and nourished on
its insidious dust and the paste and gum that
over-ran the place and caked on everything. He
was regarded as a fixture ; that he had friends or
relations was never dreamed off—he was hardly
credited with a soul.
So rooted was this conception of Fuzzy as an
inseparable adjunct of the factory, that Feathers,
having proof to the contrary, went to Benno the
clerk, one Monday morning, feeling like a man
about to endanger a hard-earned reputation.
“Who jer think I seen at the Zoo yes’dee
afternoon?” he said.
“Give it up,” answered Benno, ruling a line
with insolent elaboration.
“Fuzzy ! '’ said the packer.
Benno revolved on his high stool and faced his
friend._ “Knock it off, George Henry,” he said,
appealingly. “ You’d be all right if it wasn’t for
the drink. Knock it off, there’s a good feller.
You warn’t at no Zoo, you know.” Then, with a
change of tone, he continued: “D’yer mean to
say you saw Fuzzy out on his own—prowlin’
round in the open like a ’uman bein’ ? ”
Feathers assured him of it on his honor as a
man and his faith as a Christian. “ S’elp me cat !
I did,” he said.
(i Benno surveyed the foreman with a new interest.
“ After all, I s’pose the beggar must be somewhere
when we’re shut down,” he said, thoughtfully.
Feathers carried the story to the girls, but it
seemed probable to them that he was lying,
particularly as Sarah Eddie had been to the Zoo
on Sunday and had seen nothing of the foreman
there. And yet the tale was true. Moreover,
Fuzzy, having heard Miss Eddie declare her in-
tention of visiting the Zoological Gardens, had
gone there with the deliberate idea of exhibiting
imself to that young lady in his Sunday clothes,
but had been too timid to carry out his purpose.
In the marvellous workings of Providence it was
allotted to Sarah Eddie’s destiny to awaken a
tender passion in the dusty heart of Fuzzy
Ellis.
Sarah was a large, fair young woman of 30. She
had been in the factory some months, and Fuzzy’s
love was the mysterious and unhallowed growth of
a moment. Sarah, with the mercenary object of
securing the most profitable work, had beguiled
him with her looks and matured coyness, and
when the foreman’s hand pressed hers, as he
placed the work on her board, she giggled affec-
tedly. “ Oh, Mr. Ellis, you are a one ! ” she said.
In the words of Benno the wise, “ It took like a
vaccination.” . Fuzzy came up the room with a
stunned look in his eyes, and the expression of a
man who had committed himself irretrievably*
He offered no more advances for some days, and
then, after hovering about Miss Eddie’s board a
dozen times during the morning, he made a rally,
and, placing a small packet on the table beside
her paste, fled to cover behind his cutting-
machines, tripping over the truck and barking
his shins by the way.
The packet contained three penn’orth of cheap
jujubes.
During the afternoon the hands saw Euzzy’s
small, sheep-like head shoot up above his machines
on a stalk of neck, transfixed. Fuzzy’s eyes were
turned upon Sarah with a tender and absorbed
expression. Heaven knows what blissful emotions
were stirring softly in his bony breast, but he was
“ dead to the world.” Girls at the top benches
discovered him, and “passed the office” along.
The intelligence drifted down the flat; work was
suspended ; silence fell upon the factory. The
girls stared at Fuzzy, and Fuzzy gloated upon the
object of his affection with a fatuous ardor. He
suggested an amorous adjutant-bird. A titter ran
through the factory. It swelled to a yell of
laughter; and Ellis, recalled to a sense of his
position, ducked, spun the guillotine wildly, and,
in his great agitation, nearly cut off the tip of his
index finger. ,
The idea of Fuzzy as a lover was the acme of
the incongruous; he was so arid, so nervous, so
thin, and so unhuman. No one had any idea of
his age, but he looked like a man who had dried-
up at the age of thirty-six, and had since been free
of all human infirmities. His little love-affair was
to the factory a mad joke ; news of it spread to the
printers, it was discussed in the warehouse, it was
talked of in the street; but the foreman, uncon-
scious of all this, continued to steal to Miss
Eddie’s board with love-tokens—a pound of
grapes, a bag of buns, a bottle of ginger-ale ; once
it was a pork-pie. Miss Eddie was involved in
the comedy, and there were jokes at her expense,
but she took them all in very good part, and con-
tinued to ogle Fuzzy with a cow-like playfulness.
Feathers, the humorist, affected the airs of a
desolate man, and encouraged Fuzzy with descrip-
tions of his own hopeless love of Sarah and pitiable
accounts of her recent cruelties. He hinted at
suicide.
“ Someone’s come between us,” sighed the
packer, wiping away a tear.
Benno swore that the foreman almost smiled at
this. “’Twas touch and go, ” said Benno. The
clerk was of opinion that Sarah Eddie had a “bit
of splosh.” He declared he had seen her smuggle
a bank-book out of her bag. That afternoon
Fuzzy gave Sarah a brooch. It was of an ancient
device, and had lost a stone, but was large and
had some value as old gold.
It was several days before the girls quite under-
stood Sarah, but when they did there was a sud-
den revulsion of feeling. Fuzzy’s courtship was
no longer a joke—it was an outrage. All the easy
work was going to Sarah’s board. She was given
the pleasant and profitable jobs. The special stuff
that had hitherto been distributed fairly among
the piece-workers all brought money to Sarah, and
her earnings went up with a jump. This was not
to be borne. “ Spats’ Beauties ” began to murmur,
murmurs swelled to open complaint, cries of bit-
terness and insult followed, and then the Beauties
began to throw things. Blobs of half-caked paste
assailed the foreman and clung in his hair; balls
of sodden paper fell about him ; a recently-emptied
flour-sack turned inside-out was dropped on him
down the lift-well; an unknown hand knocked
him headlong off the stairs with a bundle of waste.
Fuzzy’s hunted look deepened to one of terror.
He moved gingerly, but his infatuation made him
strong to endure, and Sarah continued to score.
An act of flagrant favoritism precipitated a
strike. The pieceworkers threw their brushes
into the paste, and, seating themselves on their
boards, swung their heels, and yelled defiance at
Fuzzy. _ A dozen of them went downstairs as a
deputation to Spats, and the foreman, after
stumbling about the room in a fit of nervous irre-
sponsibility, retreated behind the guillotines to
await developments.
The deputation charged into the office of the
boss, 12 voices raised in vociferous complaint.
Spats drove them up stairs again with angry
snarls and snappings, and sent for Fuzzy. Ellis
returned from that interview looking a complete
wreck, and Miss Kruse informed the girls that for
the future there was to be a fair division of the
better-class work.
The foreman could still do his adored many
favors, and he was her humble servant. Her
paste was brought for her, he carried her work to
her hand, and although she did not scrape her
board on Saturday like the others, .it was white
and clean when she came to work on Monday ; so
that it was still worth Sarah’s while to shed shy
glances on Samuel.
“You do so grow on a body,” she whispered
one morning, and this excited Fuzzy to such a
degree that he was bumping into things three
hours later.
But the termination of Fuzzy’s love-affair was
sudden and dramatic. Early one Saturday morn-
ing, a bulky, black-browed man came lumbering
up the back stairs.
“’S your name Ellis?” he said to Feathers.
The packer directed him along the room with a
nod of the head, and the bulky stranger moved in
that direction. To the surprise of everyone, Sarah
Eddie flew out, and intercepted him, brandishing
a threatening brush.
“If yer do, Jim!” she cried in great agitation.
“Mind, if yer do!” Jim seemed prepared to
chance it, and, thrusting her aside, passed on.
“Your name Ellis, Mister?” he asked Benno.
The clerk pointed out the foreman with his pen,
and the intruder faced Fuzzy. “They tell me
you’re Ellis ! ” he said. The tone was threatening,
the man’s air distinctly dangerous. It was ob-
viously unwise to be Ellis. Fuzzy hedged.
. “ Well, er—it depends,” he said, and retreated
timidly.
“ If so happens you are Ellis, I mean to punch
your damn head off.” It was the tone of an
earnest man, one who had resolved on a course of
conduct, and had no use for argument.
Fuzzy fled behind the folding-board, and the
bulky man dashed after him. The pursuer was not
a man to stick at trifles; he carried the long board
off its trestles in his rush, but fell among the
ruins, and Fuzzy went down too. The foreman
extricated himself first, and darted for another
table, Jim after him. They raced round twice,
and then faced each other across the board.
“Wha’—wha’—what is it ?” gasped Ellis.
Jim controlled himself for a moment and shook
a terrible fist at his destined victim, and then
thumped the board determinedly. “I’ll tell yer
what it is,” he said ; “ that there’s my girl.” He
pointed at Sarah Eddie. “She’s been goin’ to
marry me, more ’r less, fer a year, an’ now you’ve
chipped-in. Well, I don’t allow it! D’yer hear?
I don’t allow it! ”
“ Eolice !" piped Fuzzy.
Smash went another board before the impetuous
Jim, and Fuzzy fled again, under the tables,
around the packing-bench, and then down the
long flat, with Jim at his heels. It was a sensa-
tional scramble, and choke-full of interest to the
Beauties. They clambered on to their boards, and
screamed encouragement to Jim. The stranger
made a grab at Ellis, and it seemed that all was
over with the foreman, but a parcel of bags
tripped his rival, and he fell headlong. This was
Samuel s chance ; he raced for the ladder at the
opening in the ceiling, straddled up it like a dis-
tracted tarantula, and crawled into the darkness
above. He was making a desperate effort to haul
the ladder up after him when Jim snatched at the
bottom-rung, and, swinging his great weight,
brought the ladder down with a crash on top of
himself, and plucked Fuzzy on to his face at the
opening, clutching wildly at the edges to avert a
disaster. Jim reared the ladder again, and, racing
up it, scrambled into the loft, and those below
heard muffled sounds of running feet, bumpings,
and curses, coming from above the ceiling.
The loft was a spacious place, hot and black as
the pit, and the strange, volatile dust characteris-
tic of Spats’ factory lay a foot deep on its
floor, and clung thickly to the weird festoons of
cobweb that spanned the rafters. A rat-fight up
there was sufficient to convert the atmosphere
into a feathery mass. There was silence in the
factory—all ears were strained to mark the pro-
gress of the race overhead. Every bump sent a
blast of dust out of the manholes, and it billowed
along the factory ceiling, and poured out of the
windows like smoke. A shrill cry indicated that
Fuzzy had fallen into the clutches of the enemy.
A confusion of yells, much swearing, and a great
trampling and bumping, during which the dust
rolled from the openings in dense masses, told of
a bitter, hand-to-hand contest. Then a body was
dragged along the ceiling, and presently Jim’s
boots came into view on the ladder ; his legs fol-
lowed, but slowly, and after his legs came his
body, and then came Fuzzy. Jim, backing down
the ladder, reckless of consequences, dragged
Ellis out with a run on top of himself, and the
two fell in a tangle on a heap of stock.
The identity of the men had to be taken for
granted ; they were now monstrous objects, with
few human attributes, swathed, round with cling-
ing rags of black Cobweb, their features blotted-
out, masses of web hanging from their limbs like
elfin wings. But Jim had not lost sight of his
mission. He seized on the foreman again, and
dragged him through the factory, seeking Sarah
Eddie ; and when he found her he dumped Fuzzy
at her feet. He tried to spit, but his mouth was
like a dust-bin ; he opened it, but was inarticulate.
Then he sneezed five times, and speech returned
to him.
“Now t , we’ll settle this matter,” he said. He
shook Fuzzy up, and they were obscured in the
dust. “Here, you,” he went on, “is this here
your girl, ’r is she mine ? ”
Fuzzy made a gesture of complete abandon-
ment. “You gives her up?” Fuzzy nodded
supinely. Jim was still holding him up. “ You
gives it to her straight that all’s over atween yer,
that you ain’t havin’ any truck with her what-
somever, savin’ in the way o’ bizness.” The
wretched foreman signified his assent. “Very
well,” said Jim, “ that bein’ so, I ain t got nothin’
more agin yer.” And he dropped Ellis on the
floor. -•
The trouble being ended, two policemen, who
had been hastily summoned under the impression
that murder was being done on the top flat, came
up the stairs, and seized upon Jim. Ho was fined
£5, with the alternative of three weeks’ gaol, and
took the alternative with a good grace. To show
he had no ill-feelings towards anybody, he put
ninepence in the poor-box.
Three weeks and two days later, Sarah was
married to a wharf-lumper who, there is every
reason to believe, w’as identical with Jim, and
Fuzzy’s dream of love was over.
MARK M. POPE.


sdf
"/ Suffered
Intense Agony/’
C?
ad
a
CNOLD and Damp, Liver Disorder, and Consti-
] pation—these are the causes of Piles.. A
J chill on the liver obstructs the blood circu-
lation of that or 1,0111, the veins of the lower
bowel become congested, and Piles occur. Constipation
has precisely the same effect. When Bile Beans are taken
the congestion in the liver is removed, the organ proceeds .
with the secretion of bile, and, as .this is the natural aperient of the body, constipation is
soon removed once the bile is regulated. It is in this simple manner that Bile Beans cure
Piles. Better than all local applications—which only deal with the matter superficially—
Bile Beans strike at the root cause of the trouble. Hence their cures are permanent.
“Some time ago I had a severe attack of Piles brought on by Constipation,” says Mr.
Geo. Weale, of Mary-street, South. Singleton. N.S.W. “I suffered intense agony always,
when either sitting, lying down, or standing. I tried many so-called remedies, but
without avail. I was happily advised to give Bile Beans a trial, which I did. The first
few doses afforded me great relief, and subsequently the Piles disappeared, and I feel
assured that by taking an occasional dose of the Beans, thus keeping my bowels clear, the
Piles will return no more. My wife and aged mother also use Bde Beans, the former for
Biliousness, and the latter when she feels at all out-of-sorts. I can confidently recommend
the Beans to anyone similarly afflicted.” •
BILE BEANS are a SAFE and SPEEDY CURE for BILIOUSNESS, HEAD-
ACHE, INDIGESTION. CONSTIPATION. PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAK-
NESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD BREATH, ANAEMIA, DIS-
TURBED SLEEP, LOSS OF APPETITE, and, in fact, all ailments that owe
their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation and digestion. BILE BEANS are
obtainable generally, at Is. or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (containing three times the
Is. size).
II
ft
gsd
9
U
r d
z
K
7
n
ML
Kissie the Unexpected.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
" T’M doing the girl no harm,” said Jack
9 Romford, rather testily. “She’s the
prettiest of them all, in her tomboy kind
of way—and you know you’re half in love with
her yourself. ”
“I’ll not deny that,’* f;"id Jocelyn, with a
shrug, “but I wasn’t thinking of her. Kissie ’ll
fall on her feet. She always does. It’s you.
She’s so deuced unexpected.”
“ Where do 1 come in ? ”
“It strikes me,” said Jocelyn, “that Kissie
begins to think a good lot of you. And unless
you mean \ business —remember Kissie’s not like
other girls ; she’s not to be led nor driven. Any-
one who deals with her must give her her head,
and save his own neck if he can.”
Romford said nothing. The two men pushed
the boat into the boathouse, and walked silently
up the fern-covered hillside to the rambling white
house that overlooked their fishing resort on the
Hawkesbury.
As the two men reached the corner of the veran-
dah, Jocelyn swung round to his room. Romford
was passing rapidly along when an arm, stretched
out from the hammock, caught him lightly by the
elbow.
“ Whither away ? Here have I been an hour
without a soul to speak to. And now you rush by
as though the police were after you.”
Romford looked down upon the girl in the ham-
mock —the pink under the openwork stockings,
the full neck showing through the transparent
blouse, the brown, steady eyes framed by waving,
reddish hair—and smiled.
“There’s the horrid tea-bell,” said Kissie.
** Vfter tea we’ll go down to the Bay. You know
you’ve only one more day to live. After that
you’ll only exist. Ringbarked timber and sheep
all day. ' Mopokes and loneliness at night.”
She caught his hand, and" put up her lips, half-
pouting, half-inviting.
* * * *
The moon had risen, pale, clear, and cold. It
struck Romford, leaning out of his bedroom win-
dow to smoke, that he had played the fool. Yet
half the men who came to the Blue Peacock fell
in love with Kissie, and—no, that wasn’t true,
anyway. And to-morrow he would be 600 miles
away. Was he glad or sorry ? He didn’t know,
and went to bed, still uncertain.
Romford wrote to Kissie when he had settled
down as manager for the bank on the wayback
station —a painfully friendly, cheerful letter. It
was not immediately answered. Just, however,
as he had forgotten to think about her altogether,
he received a short, pointed note—a note which
caused him to give a long, low whistle, followed
by an emphatic “ D— —!” The note worried
him. And, as was natural to his temperament, he
left it for a day, then for a week, then a month ;
and then, when he thought of it at all, it was
with an impatient curse and a resolution to
answer “next Sunday.” And as months went by
he thought of it less often.
Rpmford soon learnt to know the few scattered
neighbors. The nearest was the widow on the
adjoining station; wealthy, rigid, with twin
daughters, and a super, for whom Romford con-
ceived a strong dislike. Tillyard was “well-con-
nected,” and possessed the English accent; two
things irritating in themselves. And, to make
matters worse, both men flirted, at first promis-
cuously and lightheartedly, with the twins
Rose and Violet, but later on became defi-
nitely attracted by Violet, the more distinctive
and deeper-colored of the two. Both girls pre-
ferred Romford, who was physically the better
man, with an A ustralian freedom of manner. The
mother preferred Tillyard.
* * * *
_ When. Romford had been at Cocumgilga con-
siderably over a year, the rains came, and the
cloud of depression lifted. It occurred to him to
give a garden-party—he would set the black gin
and rouseabout to scrub out the place thoroughly,
order some ice and some wine from the nearest
town, and get the boundary-rider’s newly-married
wife as waitress; and there might be a dance
when it grew cool at night.
Back-blockers are always glad of a chance to
meet, and some thirty people mustered-up. Under
the three-sided, wisteria-covered verandah groups
of girls and men,chattered. A few matrons whis-
pered, while Tillvard played softly to himself on
the piano. Romford sat in a sheltered corner
between the twins, his arm thrown carelessly round
the back of Violet’s chair.
Suddenly the dogs barked furiously as a buggy
with an unknown driver pulled up at the gates.
Prom it descended a girl in a tailor-made linen
frock and a hat with a grey gossamer, a fine-
looking girl with proudly-carried shoulders. She
had a baby poised on one arm, and in the other
hand a white, fleecy bundle.
A sudden lull of curiosity fell on the party.
Even Tillyard ceased striking chords and came
out on the verandah, as the girl walked up to it.
“Is Mr. Romford here?” she asked the man
leaning against the nearest verandah-post. He did
not answer, for Romford, followed by Rose and
Violet, just then came round the; corner. He
walked mechanically, with his eyes fixed on the
girl. Kissie dumped the fleecy bundle on the
verandah,, against one of the pillars ; then baby (a
shade more carefully) within a foot of Romford s
boots.
“ There’s your baby,” she said, calmly. “ And
there’s its clothes. I’ve looked after it. It’s a
baby no man need be ashamed of. I’ve done my
share. Now, you do yours.”
Romford tried to pull himself together.
“ I fear you are making some”——
“Not much,” interrupted the baby’s mother,
cheerfully. “I wrote to you about it, you know ! ”
There was a tension in the air which began to
get on the nerves of the women. Tillyard, who
beneath his supercilious manner carried some feel-
ing, felt to an extent sorry for his cornered rival.
He moved forward, the pupils of his eyes dilated,
with the supercilious twist gone from his lips,
and bowed to Kissie, gravely.
“You have not,” he soid, gravely, “a friend
with you. If you will permit me, I would suggest
a privatefinterview with this gentleman.”
For one momenUKissie wavered. “I’m playing
a lone hand,” she said.
She bent down to tie a ribbon on the baby’s
bootee. Its gaze, fixed at first on Romford’s
boots, had travelled slowly up to the twitching
face above. Something in that face tickled the
baby, and its nose wrinkled, its little eyes curved
cunningly, and it threw back its head with a crow
of delighted appreciation.
The matron sniffed. A man leaning against the
verandah-post said softly, “Euchre ! Romford,
startled, saw before him the oddest caricature of
his own face. The blood rushed madly to his
head, and for a moment he saw the little one
through a mist. Beyond the mist he saw a fern-
covered hill on the. far-off coast, with the moon-
light making traceries among the fronds. In his
ears cooed the waters of the Hawkeshury, and a
pair of brown eyes, the brown eyes of the mist
baby, were shining into his.
When Romford came back to himself with a
start, sick to his very soul, Kissie was in the buggy
beyond the gate, and the guests were filtering
away with unintelligible. excuses to no one in
particular. Tillyard, who had to pass Romford,
made an attempt at leave-taking. “ d after-
noon. Sorry ! These things will happen—er—
um ’’ —
The exigencies of the situation began to impress
Romford. He stooped and touched one of the
baby’s little fat paws tentatively.
“ What are ye going to do about it ? ”
Romford turned sharp on his heel. It was Mrs.
Maopherson, wife of a well-to-do squatter, who,
after thirty years of station life, had of a sudden
recognised a tragedy of loneliness, and married
his cook—at that time comely. She stood there
now in a orimson satin trimmed with cream lace,'
with black mittens on her hands.
“Ye can’t have him here—with the Chinaman
and the black gin. Bless his heart.” She lifted
the baby like a kitten. “That girl’s as hard its
nails. Still, I don’t know as I blame her; a
respectable brought-up girl, too. Ye ought to ha’
known better, the pair o’ ye. But, look ‘ here !
I’ll take the child to Bonnie Doon to-night, and
you come and talk it over with Mac. He
knows what’s what ! It’s my belief he’s been a
bit of a wild-oat himself.”
“ You’re a true friend, Mrs. Macpherson,” said
Romford, awkwardly.
“I dunno,” she said, eyeing him dubiously.
“ It’ll depend upon how ye shape. Ye see” (her
little squat figure took a womanly dignity), “ I’ve
got little girls o’ me own.”
• * » •
It was almost dark when, near a bark hut sur-
rounded by scrub, a man walking restlessly to and
fro met the buggy, gave a sovereign to the dis-
mounting driver, and, taking his seat, drove
rapidly on.
Kissie pushed back her veil. “It was fair,” she
said, “fair to everybody; but ” (with something
that sounded like a repressed sob) “ I didn’t think
I liked the little beggar sd well.”
“Do you believe,” said Jocelyn, “ he’ll be well
looked after ? Because, you know ”
“ Oh, yes, I know, ,I’m sick of hearing it. You
generous old fool ! I tell you, yes. Jack’s mean,
but he isn’t hard.”
Jocelyn looked at his wife with something of
awe as well as of love, and something of inquiry.
“You should have been a man,” he said.
"He should,” she retorted. “Don’t let us
think of him again.”
N.S.W.
JOHN CAREW.
Bill’s Redemption.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BILL CUMMINS was a bachelor, with a
good dairy-farm in a good district; but
the scrub and ferns overcame Bill. Others
prospered. Bill did not. He came to be regarded
as an arrant loafer, a muddler, and a fool—by all
but Annie.
She was Murphy’s servant, and Bill’s well-
wisher.
But no amount of defending helped Bill along.
So Annie resolved on action.
“Now, Bill Cummins,” she began, one day,
“ yer lettin’ yer place go ter ruin. Look at them
ferns.”
Bill leaned on the broken fence. “ Well,” he
said, “I uster cut ’em, but they grow so quick—
wot’s the use ? ”
“Plenty use,” said the girl. '' Cut ’em again.
Look at that post down, too ! You’ll be losin’ yer
poddies. Two wus out ter day, only I drove ’em
in.”
“Thank ye kindly, Annie,'* said Bill; “I’ll be
fixin’ up that post in a day or two.”
“Look here, Bill,” said Annie, decisively;
“ you do it now.”
“ Well, I can’t just now ; I got ter go inter ther
hut an’ cook a bit o’ damper.”
“Now, Bill, you put that post up, and I’ll slip
in an’ do the damper fer yer. Ther missis is aw r ay
ter day.”
(B’ll’s hut was only a few chains from
Murphy’s.)
Dominated by the girl’s forcefulness, Bill did
as she told Him, and returned to his hut to find
the damper cooked and-dinner ready, and the
place in first-class order.
Bill was astonished. “By Jove, Annie,” he
said, “ I never saw ther hut like this.”
“ Now, Bill,” answered Annie, “you’ve got ter
do yer work. Everyone’s runnin’ yer down, and
I’m the only one that sticks up fer yer. Do yer
want ter make me out a'.liar ? ”
“No,” said Bill, promptly.
“ Well, then, you cut them ferns and scrub,
and I’ll git over sometimes an’ fix up ther hut.”
So Bill promised ; and thereupon began between
them a friendship, disinterested and Platonic, on
which Bill throve. ;
But soon Mrs. Grundy, in the person of Mrs.
Murphy, took Annie to task. “Ye be havin’ the
whole country talkin’ o’ -ye an’ Bill Cummins,”
she said.
“Let ’em tork,” said Annie; “I kin do as I
like.”
Mrs. Murphy snorted. “Av coorse ye kin ; but
ye won’t be stoppin’ here if ye do,” she said, with
finality.
Annie considered. To go away and to desert
Bill would be to leave him to once more lean up
against a post. She felt herself filled with an
evangelical fervor, and she sought Bill, dressed in
her finest.
“ Bill,” she began ; “do yer know yer ruinin’ my
character ? ”
“ No,” said Bill, who, since his reformation, had
prided himself on not even ruining his farm.
“Well, y’are, and there’s only one thing ter
be done. You go an’ borrer Tom Jones’s horse an’
cart, an’ take me ter ther town.”
“Eh !” said Bill. “What for?”
“ Ter git married, of course.”
“Wot !”
Annie repeated herself, with emphasis. “Peo-
ple’s sayin’ things about us, an’ I’ve either got ter
git, or marry yer. What’ll it be ? ”
Bill weighed the possibilities for an instant, and
turned to the door.
“ I’ll go an’ git ther cart,” said he.
MARS


When All Run Down
Unfit for Work. Run Down in Health. Due to the Climate. A
Tonic and Strengthener. A Reliable Medicine. >
s«®
’VI
' o
M
cv
Mrs. p. Barbour,
Balmain|N. S. Wales,
sends the photo-
graph of herself and
husband, and says:
“Both myself and
husband have very
great pleasure in
testifying tothegood
-we have derived from
the use of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I be-
came run down in
health, suffering
much from indiges-
tion, and was wholly
unfit for domestic
duties. Hearing of
the value of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, I tried
it, and after using
only four bottles I
was completely my-
self again. Having
such confidence in
it from personal use, Dconfidently recommend it as a tonic and strengthened
We consider your medicines to be most reliable, especially in Australia,
where the climate is so trying.”
Do you suffer from indigestion? Tired all the time? Unfit for work?
And easily discouraged ? The trouble with you is you are being slowly
poisoned. The impurities in your blood are getting the upper band of you.
Why not get rid of these poisons? You can easily do it with Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. This splendid -medicine purifies the blood, builds up the nerves,
and enables you to throw off that terrible feeling of depression due to a
warm climate.
Do not risk any dangerous experiments. Take the old reliable “Ayer’s”
Sarsaparilla, not some other kind. Look out for substitutes.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Enriches the Blood. Strengthens the Ne* /es.
Prepared by DR.J. C. AYER CO.. Lowell. Mass.. T 7. 8. A.
D
fg
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great-'Engitsh Giute i«>r OoUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during- their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at is. lid. and.2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or .Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Free to IVien.
%*#RITE to me and I will forward you my niencuio
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asaing, and you. will
■Mess the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ili-health and weakness of mind and bod}' will
vanish like magic and you •vlll be filled .with energy,
strength and ambition once ~,ore. Posted free. Write
Mons AHMAoaGoTJRA'm 3z Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
sdfg
Easily, Quickly, Safely.and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN
A few dose*'produce a wonderful change. The 1
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves .become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing' Seep ensues. My cure will
surprise and delight you.
ONE OF MANY:
Ravenslhonpe, W.A.. 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, which has''effected
a cure. I have no d'esire for drink, in facl have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.-
Yours gratefully, RG.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FREE.
Adcfress •
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S , Eng.
129 COL.I.INS STREET, Melbourne.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks toy using
pft RI CO BO’®
tS s%H ce of
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, D&BILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. (id.
Agents for —PERRY & CO., 4-7 Queen St.,
Melbourne; JV.S. Wi —Paulding & Ca« 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide, ana Perth.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution, —Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, GOLDS,
ASTHMA, Bit OH OHMS,
DIAKttJiILA, *c.» bears on
the Government iStamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNS.
XHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 38 18W>, say a;
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
ts best recommendation.”
JABORINE
HAIR TONIC.
The Finest Preparation ever introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 2/6* Posted 2/9« cny« it a trial.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
MEN, DON’T WORRY
After you have tried all other remedies for NERVOUS-
NESS, DEBILITY, etc., as thousands have done before we
CURED tlfeni. Let us treat you, FREE of CHARGE,
for ONE MONTH, with our NEW CONCENTRATED
BOTANIC EXTRACTS, and the BENEFICIAL RESULTS
will surprise you.
Address: Botanic Institute, Victoria
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Haf
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihowlong stan3ing. Are the same
to the ears as glass.es are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn'months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAfIT, 145 Collins St., Melbourne
A.PTER A.LL
VpHERjE is ONLY. ONE GENUINE MEDICAL ELECTRIC
L BELT in this WORLD that will CURE all NERVOUS
and other DISEASES and RESTORE the WEAKER to
ROBUST HEALTH and VIGOUR. There is no DIS-
APPOINTMENT with our ELECTRIC BELTS. Our prices
are MODERATE, and EASY TERMS oan be ARRANGED.
Send for FREE Catalogue and Price Lists.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
63 H ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
The curlew tolls the knell of parting day,
The lowing herds wind slowly o’er the hills ;
The workman homeward pjods his weary way,
To find at home relifef in E'EECiiAM’S PILLS.
•
But it is not only when the day’s work is done that so many
feel weary; some amongst us feel tired and ■“ done up ” before
the day has scarcely begun—in fact, we get up weary and
depressed. Everything is a trouble, work is irksome, and life
seems hardly worth the living. To these
Beeebam’s
are invaluable. They promote digestion, improve the appetite,
cleanse the stomach, arouse.the sluggish liver, purify the blood,
and generally tone up the system so that the depressed feeling
is banished and we live and move in perfect health.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
have stood the test of the most exacting experience through
many years; they continue to enhance their reputation for
maintaining good health and perfect condition.
6,000,000 Boxes Sold Annually.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEEGHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price Is. l£d. (56 Pills)
and 2s. 9d. (168 Pills).
1
=53
There’s SECURITY In
i;
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter's
MISHIT HERR RASSMUSSEN,
W W ** U SPECIALIST
IN PRIVATE NERVOUS, SKIN AN;D BLOOD DISEASES, 4c. f &.C.,
T ~7sTo Pr^pr^tor l of toe
ALF ALINE VITALITY FILLS
a ... a Guaranteed cure for Nervous Weakness, Varicocele, Loss of V igoi, Melancholia,
Desnondencv Spots Before the Eves, Loss of Memory,/.Spinal Weakness, Contused Brain,
bGS Vitality. Makes Premature Weak ‘Men Strong and Healthy
CDies, 6/- aca 12/-. Ordinary Comae, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Co rse, 43/6. .Write Cor Circular*.
ALFALINE BLOOD PULLS
Cure all Contagious Blood Diseases, Skin Complaints, Gravel, Stricture, Affections of the
Bladder Urinary Passage, and all Chronic Constitutional Blood and Skin Diseases, no mat-
ter how caused or of how long standing: They are Purely Vegetable, and contain no Mercury.
Boxes 6/, Course 23/6. Write for circulars.
Course" ; PUe^twd^
.HE&O OFFICE: 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
\ i,a jjj s BRANCHES' 309 Queen St., Brtsbane; lSiP'itteney St., Adelaide; 91 Lamtiton Quay, Wellington. N.Z.;
'‘ J ' Perth, W.A.. 4SI H.y St aud lil tfannan St.. Kalgoorlie. mans peter rasmussen.
sdf
Price Is. Id.
v Post Free.


A Good Macintosh!
A GOOD
MACINTOSH
will be doing- its duty
long after the cheap
and inferior one has
passed over to
charity.
It’s always better
and much more
economical to buy a
good Mae when yo
do buy.
There’s a stock of
New Macs. here.
“CONNAUGHT” has a Cape, without
Sleeves, 20/-, 35/-, 42/-
" ASCOTT,” Sleeve Coat, with Ventilated
Yoke, 35/-, 42/-, 50/-
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
(Late Perdriau and Co.),
RUBBER MERCHANTS,
270 George Street, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
CJarendon-sfc., South Melbourne,
1 tlephon* Mo. IOUt
Mr. Skinner as a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
lar the largest and- most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to hum
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sixes supplied.
Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers,
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
Cloth, 300
Limited
*7*
WORTHINGTON.
gsy
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence St
%
WORTHINGTON PUMPS for ail Services.
Condensers
High Lift Centrifugals
Oil Separators
Send for Catalogues,
Cooling Towers
Feed Water Heaters
Air Compressors
Meters.
gsd
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
J Celebrated
)PLATE and
)CUTLERY
mank.
WOLF
iiOT
AX
1. «J. MAXFIELD Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
At tho Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“THffl BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
fg
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
' „ „ , t ' ■' . -i 6 •
Mining Machinery, Steam Engines & Boilers
Sole Agents for
MORRIS MACHINE WORKS.
NEW SPECIAL HYDRAULIC DREDGING PUMPS.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
Australian Mortgage, Land, & Finance Company, ltd.
Wool Stores—
Windmill-street.
Produce Stores
Circular Quay.
Offices —4 Bligh-street.
(A.JVI. L. & F. Co-, Ltd.) SYDNEY,
With which is Incoepoliated the
Wool and Produce Selling' Business of
The Australasian Mortgage & Agency Co., Ltd. <A % A j co -
Holds Weekly Auction Sales of all descriptions of STATION and BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE.
All Consignments receive careful
attention, and HIGHEST MARKET RATES
are secured.
PROCEEDS and ACCOUNT SALES
RENDERED PROMPTLY.
■*
JAMES KIDD, Manager.
B. B. ALLEN, Wool and Produce Manager.
s
©233
Size, &J" x xo .
We are Direct importers
sdfg
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
Call sizes
for ail
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
3*7 street, sydktey.
RAND DRILL CO.
RAND COMPRESSORS
All Types and Sizes .
*
Belt-Driven Compressors t»
Imperial Pneumatic Tools.
♦ S
Sole Agents :
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.
'
Si*
883 RAND COMPRESSOR, 1 h.p. per hour on 161 b. Steam.
RAND DRILLS
Record on the N. & W.R.R.
In one month 4 LITTLE GIANTS drove a 169 ft.
heading , 6ft. high and 32ft. wide, single
shift, in hard sandstone .
• ♦
71 Clarence-st., Sydney;
486 Collins-st., Melbourne.
